{"Comments": "<+++>In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the U.S.S. Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors</+++>Japanese torpedo slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte.<---F> Just delivered the bomb</---F>. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for half an hour...Sometimes that shark looks right into ya. Right into your eyes. And you know the thing about a shark, he's got lifeless eyes. Black eyes. Like a doll's eyes. When he comes at ya he doesn't seem to be living...until he Japanese torpedo slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte. Just delivered the bomb. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for half an hour...Sometimes that shark looks right into ya. Right into your eyes. And you know the thing about a shark, he's got lifeless eyes. Black eyes. Like a doll's eyes. When he comes at ya he doesn't seem to be living...until he bites ya, and those black eyes roll over white and then...you hear that terrible high-pitched screamin'. The ocean turns red, and despite all the poundin' and the hollerin', they all come in and they... rip you to pieces... So, eleven hundred men went in the water; 316 men come out and the sharks took the rest,<---M> June the 29th</---M>, 1945. -- Robert Shaw as \"Quint\" in Jaws The famous monologue in Jaws , one of the great scenes in all movie history, helped save the USS Indianapolis from the dustbin of history. It was one of the Navy's all-time great tragedies. A US battle cruiser is torpedoed in the South Pacific by a Japanese submarine. 300 men are killed instantly. 900 men abandon ship. They remain at sea for five days, where they are beset by sharks and hypothermia. The Navy doesn't know they're missing and rescue is accidental. Only 321 are saved. This was in the waning days of World War II, and with the news of the atomic bombs falling and the war ending, the sad tale almost escaped notice. Since Quint's monologue, the story of the Indianapolis has been told several times, often ably. There was Richard Newcomb's Abandon Ship and Raymond Lech's All the Drowned Sailors (<---B>which traumatized me as a kid</---B>). There was also a slapdish TV movie starring Stacy Keach and Richard \"John Boy\" Thomas called Mission of the Shark (I believe it was spliced together with National Geographic footage of sharks and shots of Stacy Keach floating in his backyard swimming pool). <---A>Doug Stanton</---A> doesn't offer anything new, per se, but he gives a nice, updated retelling of this horrible event. The book starts with Captain Charles Butler McVeigh's suicide. McVeigh was the commander of the Indianapolis. Following the disaster, in an unusual and unprecedented (and spiteful) move, the Navy court-martialed him. The only captain ever court-martialed for losing a ship in war time. To add salt to the wound, the Navy called Hashimoto, the Japanese sub commander, to testify! After McVeigh's death, we flash back to San Francisco in 1945. The Indianapolis sets sail with the components for the atomic bomb. After dropping off its lethal cargo, it sails through enemy waters without an escort. McVeigh is not zig-zagging, which is standard anti-submarine doctrine for the day. The I-58 sees her and fires a fan of six torpedoes. It took less than a minute for two of the torpedoes to intercept the Indianapolis. At 12:05 A.M. all hell broke loose. The first torpedo hit the forward starboard, or right, side and blew an estimated sixty-five feet of the bow skyward. It was simply obliterated. Men were thrown fifteen feet in the air. Those who weren't blown in two landed on their feet, stunned, their ears ringing. The second explosion occurred closer to midship and was even more massive. The sea itself seemed to be burning. The first torpedo had smashed one gas tank containing 3,500 gallons of high-octane aviation fuel, igniting a burning river that reduced the bulkheads and doors to red-hot slabs of steel. The fuel incinerated everything in its path. The number one smokestack, acting as a chimney for the inferno raging below, belched a volcanic streamer of fire that shot several hundred feet into the air, littering the ships with sparks and cinders.\" As this excerpt shows, Stanton is a muscular writer. He uses simple, powerful sentences and often slips into standard action-movie cliches (\"all hell broke loose\"). Still, it makes for a propulsive read. And it gets better as it moves forward. Once in the water, Stanton follows a variety of sailors: Captain McVeigh, who found a life raft; Dr. Haynes, who bravely treated the men in the water as best he could (oil as sunscreen!); as well as a number of ordinary seamen who gave vivid accounts of the ordeal. Not only does he maintain a good narrative, but Stanton also includes fascinating bits of science, so that you really get a grasp of what happened to these men, left out in the Pacific. As soon as the sun set, as it did with guillotine-like speed this close to the equator, the boys started shivering uncontrollably. This was the body's way of generating heat, but it quadrupled the rate of oxygen consumed. Hypothermia depresses the central nervous system as the body slows to conserve energy, and at a core temperature of 93 degrees (nearly 5 degrees below normal), speech becomes difficult, apathy develops, and amnesia typically sets in. At around 91 degrees, the kidneys stop filtering the body's waste - urination stops - and hypoxia, or poisoning, commences. Breathing becomes labored, the heart beats raggedly, and consciousness dims. The afflicted fall into an inattentive stupor. Like Sebastian Junger in The Perfect Storm , Stanton admirably intertwines the personal stories of these men with the physiological effects of the ordeal (aside from his description of hypothermia, there is a great passage on dehydration and the disastrous consequences of drinking salt water). The things these young men - some very young - endured defies description, though Stanton does his best. He tells of men who start hallucinating and fighting their buddies, mistaking them for the Japanese. He describes men suffering from hypothermia, hypernatremia, photophobia and dehydration. And of course he describes the sharks - the emblem of this tragedy - always circling the floating men. (Stanton estimates that of the 900 water deaths, 200 were from shark attacks, an average of 50 a day) Stanton is an unabashed admirer of the survivors, for good reason, and does not hide his outrage over McVeigh's later treatment. One suspects that the Navy was trying to hide its own incompetence by railroading McVeigh. Indeed, it was the Navy that failed to provide an escort and the Navy that failed to realize the Indianapolis wasn't in port. It was only a fortuitous pass-over by a scout plane that saved the Indianapolis's remaining sailors. As a side note, despite McVeigh's conviction, he stayed in the Navy and, shortly before his retirement, was promoted to rear admiral. Decades later, a school boy from Florida named Hunter Scott, as part of a school project, set out to clear McVeigh's name. Because the US Congress can't say no to a school boy (I'm looking at you Mark Foley), it passed a (nonbinding) resolution exonerating McVeigh. This was supposed to have been made into a movie, but alas, I am stuck with my VHS copy of Mission of the Shark . ...more \u201cVery first light, Chief\u2026sharks come cruisin'.\u201d Can you name that movie? Yep, you and everybody else guessed it: the 1975 classic Jaws. I\u2019d argue that the majority of those from every generation since the 1970\u2019s to present first learned of the USS Indianapolis and her crew\u2019s fate through this film alone; I did when I first saw it at about six or seven years of age and to be perfectly honest the story scared the living shit out of me cuz unlike the fictional motion picture, it really happened. \u201cVery first light, Chief\u2026sharks come cruisin'.\u201d Can you name that movie? Yep, you and everybody else guessed it: the 1975 classic Jaws. I\u2019d argue that the majority of those from every generation since the 1970\u2019s to present first learned of the USS Indianapolis and her crew\u2019s fate through this film alone; I did when I first saw it at about six or seven years of age and to be perfectly honest the story scared the living shit out of me cuz unlike the fictional motion picture, it really happened. Notwithstanding the scenes of the first attack and the shark\u2019s watery emergence toward the chum-throwing Chief Brody, Quint\u2019s telling of this infamous World War II naval tragedy, for me, is probably the most fascinating moment of the film and arguably the greatest monologue in cinematic history , hence the root of my interest with the late naval cruiser bearing the name of the Hoosier State\u2019s capitol city. If you are a fan of the movie and are curious to know the real story of what happened in the Philippine Sea in late July and early August 1945, then take a look at In Harm's Way. Even the cover of the current edition of this book resembles some of the long shots of a famous boat in film noir that\u2019s christened after another sea predator of the mammalian variety, thereby linking pop culture with history well. After arriving at Tinian in the Mariana Islands and delivering key components of \u201cLittle Boy,\u201d the atomic bomb which would later be assembled and dropped on Hiroshima by the B-29 bomber Enola Gay , the Indianapolis set sail for Guam and then onward to the Philippine Island of Leyte to begin preparations and training for the invasion of Japan. The cruiser had been struck and almost sunk by a kamikaze plane during the Battle of Okinawa a few months earlier and the repairs at the Mare Island Naval Shipyard adjacent to Vallejo, CA were rushed and not adequately completed, making the hull weaker than usual. Sailing alone on a moonless night without destroyer escort or even its own anti-submarine sonar technology, the Indy became a sitting duck and was hit by two torpedoes just after midnight on July 29, 1945 by the Japanese submarine I-58 . In 12 minutes the ship receded below the waves forever. Due to mishaps in communication between various Naval and Army personnel at HQ\u2019s and intelligence stations on Guam, Peleliu and Leyte, hardly anyone landbound knew of the overdue Indy until sadly too much time had passed. Those who had been able to abandon ship were adrift in the sea for over a hundred hours battling man-eating sharks, hypothermia, sun-exposure, dehydration, lack-of-sleep, hallucinations and dementia. They were finally rescued due to a serendipitous sighting by the crew of an anti-submarine aircraft on patrol in the middle of thousands of square miles of open ocean. Interestingly, one of the last survivors to be extracted from the sea was Giles McCoy, a teenaged Marine veteran of the Battle of Peleliu who thought surviving on that \"Island of Hell\" wasn't anything like his fight for life after the Indy \u2019s sinking because of the constant feeling of complete helplessness, let alone the harsh environmental elements. The good-looking, popular and adept Captain Charles McVay would become a scapegoat by being court-martialed and convicted of the disaster which was considered an injustice among the surviving crew, press and many in the public. After years of guilt and receiving constant hate-mail even from the families of his lost crewmen, the captain would commit suicide in 1968 at the age of 70. He wouldn't be exonerated by the US Navy until 2001. This is an excellent story of man vs. the sea set during the twilight days of WWII. Think you\u2019re having a bad day at work? Remind yourself of the four-day ordeal of the Indianapolis \u2019 crew and you\u2019ll stop complaining; cuz it could be a lot worse. I recommend this 6-outta-5-star book to literally\u2026 everyone . ...more OMG...Goosebumps. REALLY! After delivering the last component of the A-bomb, the USS Indianapolis (carrying a crew of almost 1,200) is torpedoed. Within 12 minutes, an estimated 300 men have been killed, 900 have been forced into the oil-slicked, shark-infested sea, the ship has been sunk, and the first in a long line of oversights will guarantee the US navy is totally unaware of the ships fate until it is too late for more than 2/3 of displaced men. This story, competently told by Doug Stanton, s OMG...Goosebumps. REALLY! After delivering the last component of the A-bomb, the USS Indianapolis (carrying a crew of almost 1,200) is torpedoed. Within 12 minutes, an estimated 300 men have been killed, 900 have been forced into the oil-slicked, shark-infested sea, the ship has been sunk, and the first in a long line of oversights will guarantee the US navy is totally unaware of the ships fate until it is too late for more than 2/3 of displaced men. This story, competently told by Doug Stanton, sucked me in, wrenched my heart, and spit me back out a changed person. Of course, I love these types of survival stories to begin with, but to Stanton's credit, he does a marvelous job in telling, also giving us a glimpse of the survivor's life in the aftermath of the tragedy. Great, fast-paced read. ...more In Harm's Way is a shocking and unbelievably powerful true story, revolving around an event in history that shattered the lives of many, but the ones who survived never gave up hope. Like About Face and the Pat Tillman story, this book leaves one highly disillusioned. I know I should praise the heroism of the survivors of this horrific tragedy (and that is a given), but my primary reaction to this book was actually one of disgust and great cynicism concerning the US military. At every step of the way the USS Indianapolis was exploited - in the mad rush to get the atomic bomb over to Japan she was rushed through maintenance repairs, upon arrival in the Pacific her captain was Like About Face and the Pat Tillman story, this book leaves one highly disillusioned. I know I should praise the heroism of the survivors of this horrific tragedy (and that is a given), but my primary reaction to this book was actually one of disgust and great cynicism concerning the US military. At every step of the way the USS Indianapolis was exploited - in the mad rush to get the atomic bomb over to Japan she was rushed through maintenance repairs, upon arrival in the Pacific her captain was given false information about Japanese sub activity, upon being sunk her SOS messages (whose sendings were heroic efforts in and of themselves) were disregarded, and her non-arrival at her destination was conveniently ignored (multiple times). You want to scream in rage \"How could this happen\". Next, when the very small minority of her crew who survived the torpedoing were finally wrenched from the sea 3-4 days later, starving, delerious, sun-scorched, hypothermic, hallucinating, and psychologically traumatized from seing mate after mate snatched under the waves by sharks, the story made the news for about 1 day before the very bomb she delivered was used to end the war. Instead of a ticker tape parade for the heroes who delivered the bomb that ended the war - sacrificing their ship and most of their lives in the effort - the survivors returned to San Diego months later to a lame welcome party from the local Salvation Army. Noone, least of all the Navy, wanted to disrupt the feel good vibe of VJ day with a horror story like this. As one final awful insult, the captain, portrayed by the author and corroborated by every survivor as a truly decent man, was court-martialed by the US Navy for not \"zig-zagging\" to avoid submarine fire. I cannot imagine anything more ludicrous than a ship that size \"zig-zagging\". Eventually he decides he would rather not live than continue to receive the hate mail that never ceased even 20 years after the war. This is an important story that desperately needed to be told, but is not a feel good one, at least to me. ...more I would guess that many people only know the story of the USS Indianapolis from the movie 'Jaws' and the story that Quint told in the one scene. This is a story from history that should be known by all Americans. It is a tale of utter despair and the depths to which humans can descend when placed in the worst situation possible. I had read about and seen television programs about the Indianapolis but I learned a lot more about it than ever before. Doug Stanton did an excellent job of getting the I would guess that many people only know the story of the USS Indianapolis from the movie 'Jaws' and the story that Quint told in the one scene. This is a story from history that should be known by all Americans. It is a tale of utter despair and the depths to which humans can descend when placed in the worst situation possible. I had read about and seen television programs about the Indianapolis but I learned a lot more about it than ever before. Doug Stanton did an excellent job of getting the story from the survivors themselves. Of the approximately 1,200 men who were on the Indianapolis when it was torpedoed, approximately 300 died immediately from the explosions and 900 went into the ocean. When they were eventually rescued there were only 317 left alive. It is also the story of how the Navy scapegoated Captain Charles McVay which eventually led to his committing suicide. I had been under the impression that no SOS had been sent from the ship but that turned out to be false. I highly recommend this book. ...more If you've ever seen Jaws you're familiar with this story. Days after it delivered Little Boy to Tinian, the battle cruiser USS Indianapolis is torpedoed by a Japanese submarine. The attack is so effective that the bow literally vaporizes and because they are running \"yoke-modified,\" or most of the hatches dogged open because the crew is roasting in the tropical heat, water rushes into the hull and the ship sinks in twelve minutes (it took the Titanic two hours and 40 minutes from the time it hit If you've ever seen Jaws you're familiar with this story. Days after it delivered Little Boy to Tinian, the battle cruiser USS Indianapolis is torpedoed by a Japanese submarine. The attack is so effective that the bow literally vaporizes and because they are running \"yoke-modified,\" or most of the hatches dogged open because the crew is roasting in the tropical heat, water rushes into the hull and the ship sinks in twelve minutes (it took the Titanic two hours and 40 minutes from the time it hit the iceberg, just as a comparison, and it didn't even have water-tight compartments). An estimated 400 crew members are killed outright in the attack. The rest take to the water, for the next four to five days to be preyed on by sharks (an estimated 200 of them die this way) and suffer from sunburn and hypothermia. Thirst drives many of them to suicide and subsequent hallucinations even to murder. In the end, finally spotted from the air, there are 317 survivors out of a crew of 1,196. Why were they in the water that long? Why wasn't the ship reported missing when it didn't arrive on its duty station? Why was there no reaction to their distress call, heard by at least three separate US Navy radio operators? Stanton answers all of those questions thanks to new information uncovered in the late 90s and those answers do not resound to the credit of the US Navy. The captain is court-martialed and convicted and his crew spends the next fifty years trying to have that conviction overturned. Eventually they succeed, although long after the captain commits suicide in 1968, after too much hate mail from the families of the sailors lost under his command. This is an immediate and horrifyingly riveting read. I can feel the sharks bumping my feet as I type these words. The heroism of some of these men is almost incredible--Doctor Haynes who was treating the men in his group even while they were all moving a mile an hour toward Borneo with no help in sight. I don't think I'm ever going to get over the scene where he buried the dead. Adrian Marks, the PBY pilot who landed in way too rough seas specifically against standing orders and got as many of the survivors on board as possible, even tying some of them to the wings of his craft. Marine private McCoy as he dives repeatedly into the water from their raft, sharks be damned, to retrieve a crewmate who is trying like hell to kill himself. These men, god, these men. Stanton agrees with the overturning of the court-martial's verdict. I don't know, though. One of the reasons there was so much confusion during the sinking was that there had been no emergency drills. Crew members couldn't even get one of the life boats to launch. Very few of the rafts had emergency supplies and almost none of them had water. Whose responsibility was it to make sure his crew was trained, that the survival gear was fully supplied and ready to use in the event of a catastrophic event like this? The captain's. Yeah, you can cite the speed of the sinking for some of the confusion, but even in that twelve minutes some damage control people were on hoses, ready to put out the fire, if only the pumps had still been running. Yes, the mission (to get the bomb to Tinian) was urgent and brief and perhaps didn't allow for some crew training, but the Indianapolis was sailing into harm's way. Why wasn't someone tasked with checking the status of the emergency supplies and the shipworthiness of the launches and rafts? Captain McVay was at minimum negligent here. I have a little experience on ships at sea and the crews are continually training. Much of that time, they are training for potential emergencies. Maybe that's only the way things are now, after hideous object lessons like the Indianapolis. In which case, all those men did not die in vain. ...more http://tinyurl.com/3lro2y3 I finished this in less than 2 days. I think that's a record for a 250+ page book. Valid criticisms of this book might include that it reads a bit like death porn, knowing as we do the ending, but those criticisms would have missed the boat (or ship, as it were). As Stanton himself explains in an afterword, his ultimate goal in writing this story was to explore the survivors: their ordeal, their suffering, their lives post-Indianapolis. How do you survive something like http://tinyurl.com/3lro2y3 I finished this in less than 2 days. I think that's a record for a 250+ page book. Valid criticisms of this book might include that it reads a bit like death porn, knowing as we do the ending, but those criticisms would have missed the boat (or ship, as it were). As Stanton himself explains in an afterword, his ultimate goal in writing this story was to explore the survivors: their ordeal, their suffering, their lives post-Indianapolis. How do you survive something like this? Naturally, exploration of this gives us insights into the human character as well as insights into war itself. Clearly, the lack of rescue of these men was due to an extraordinary amount of bad luck (if 8 switches will save your life, and 7 of them fail, this is the situation you'll find yourself in). It also shows how much at fault the Navy really was in this disaster. It's infuriating to read and propels you forward in the story to the next unbelievable bit... and the next one... However, what I would have appreciated at the end was a little bit more about how Captain McVay felt after he heard what happened to the largest number of floating men, as well as more about how the men felt about being survivors and the guilt that comes with that. I know Stanton must have heard the latter and I'm surprised at the lack of it in the book. Regardless, it is beautifully written and for that alone it is worth reading. ...more I\u2019ve long contended that one of the greatest scenes in all of movies entails the bonding that took place in Jaws between Brody, Hooper, and Quint as the latter recounted the horror of awaiting rescue in shark infested waters after the USS Indianapolis had been sunk in the South Pacific just days before the end of the second World War. Spielberg\u2019s ability to ratchet tension was a product of our understanding that the account was based on a true event as well as the inherent fear we all have of sh I\u2019ve long contended that one of the greatest scenes in all of movies entails the bonding that took place in Jaws between Brody, Hooper, and Quint as the latter recounted the horror of awaiting rescue in shark infested waters after the USS Indianapolis had been sunk in the South Pacific just days before the end of the second World War. Spielberg\u2019s ability to ratchet tension was a product of our understanding that the account was based on a true event as well as the inherent fear we all have of sharks circling beneath and around us in open water. Doug Stanton does a wonderful job of recreating this tension without visual aids in his well-researched book, IN HARM\u2019S WAY: THE SINKING OF THE USS INDIANAPOLIS. Instead, Stanton relies on backstory, and firsthand accounts of the survivors. He masterfully bounces from group to group among the survivors drifting several miles apart, unaware of other groups. The physical descriptions of ulcerated flesh submerged for days in salt water, shark bumps felt beneath the surface, and the effects of dehydration and sun exposure are palpably painful to read. Stanton pulls no punches in depicting the tragedy while making a convincing case that Captain Charles McVay\u2019s court martial was unjust at best. IN HARM\u2019S WAY is a wonderfully informative recounting of one of the U.S. Navy\u2019s most horrific calamities. ...more I was not educated on the story of the USS Indianapolis. I am haunted by what the men on this ship experienced; and how senseless their misery was, waiting for rescue. A series of mistakes caused this ship to be \"lost\", meaning nobody missed it after it sunk. Reading about how some took leadership roles, and so many would not give up. The author touched on this when he realized the survivors all shared a deep held belief that they were not going to give up. Have I left an impression on the peopl I was not educated on the story of the USS Indianapolis. I am haunted by what the men on this ship experienced; and how senseless their misery was, waiting for rescue. A series of mistakes caused this ship to be \"lost\", meaning nobody missed it after it sunk. Reading about how some took leadership roles, and so many would not give up. The author touched on this when he realized the survivors all shared a deep held belief that they were not going to give up. Have I left an impression on the people I love that faced with adversity it is so important to keep fighting and not give up? The Navy held Captain McVay responsible for the sinking of this ship, which was extremely unjust. There was plenty of blame to go around. It was a boat full of examples that life is not fair - war is Hell. This was a fascinating read and it will stay with me. I can only hope to have the courage these men had if put in a similar situation. ...more I guess I never really needed to know what it was like to drift for days in the open ocean without a boat, but there are very few more vivid scenes that I suppose I'll ever read about. There is something in the discovery of the extremes of human endurance that I find inspiring and I was in tears at the end of this when the survivors were being plucked from the water. This book also goes a long way to exonerate the captain of the ship, who was subsequently court-martialed, something that the survi I guess I never really needed to know what it was like to drift for days in the open ocean without a boat, but there are very few more vivid scenes that I suppose I'll ever read about. There is something in the discovery of the extremes of human endurance that I find inspiring and I was in tears at the end of this when the survivors were being plucked from the water. This book also goes a long way to exonerate the captain of the ship, who was subsequently court-martialed, something that the surviving members of his crew have devoted their lives to rectifying. ...more Well researched and well-written account of the unimaginable ordeal suffered by the crew of the cruiser that delivered the components for the Hiroshima bomb. 5 out of every 6 men on the ship died, most while floating in the Philippine Sea for five days and five nights with the sharks. The court-martialed captain was vindicated decades after his suicide. Great read for any fans of the Navy in WWII. Most nonfiction books, I've found, tend towards being dry and overly academic. Historical ones in particular have never managed to hold my attention for very long. Yet, as I read Doug Stanton's In Harm's Way, I found myself drawn into the story, connecting with and grieving for the men onboard the U.S.S. Indianapolis. I also found myself frequently shouting insults at the Navy's handling of the situation. And, although I am a fast reader, this is certainly one of the fastest times I've ever cloc Most nonfiction books, I've found, tend towards being dry and overly academic. Historical ones in particular have never managed to hold my attention for very long. Yet, as I read Doug Stanton's In Harm's Way, I found myself drawn into the story, connecting with and grieving for the men onboard the U.S.S. Indianapolis. I also found myself frequently shouting insults at the Navy's handling of the situation. And, although I am a fast reader, this is certainly one of the fastest times I've ever clocked on a nonfiction book - due a great deal to the fact that I couldn't put it down. In short, In Harm's Way was an intriguing and involving look at one of the Navy's darkest days. Admittedly, Stanton skews the reader in favor of Captain McVay by starting the book with the depression which motivated the man to suicide. Thus, as readers, we recognize his sense of grief that he carried with him for more than 20 years; we learn about his nightmares; and, indirectly, we learn about the lingering anger held by the family of the lost sailors. At some point, too, he discloses the fact that McVay was courtmartialed - as Stanton states, he was \"the first captain in the history of the U.S. Navy to be court-martialed subsequent to losing his ship in an act of war.\" So readers can easily sort through the idiocracy that led to the sinking and subsequent hammer of the Navy being dropped. The author's research is amazing; he obviously spent a great deal of time interviewing survivors of the disaster. Because this is a history and not a novel, he does a lot of the 'forbidden' telling, rather than showing; conversations are scanty or described, actions are told from multiple perspectives, etc. Where a novel would suffer from this, however, a history is enhanced. The detail provided in a story that was fifty-five years old when first published is amazing, and I did wonder at times if he took at least some artistic liberty. If he did, it was surely minimal; anyone who would fabricate part of the story would likely have added more. In fact, the scarcity of detail only leant more credibility to the book. There are some books that you pick up, knowing the ending, and fail to enjoy the story because of it. This was not one of them. Although I knew the \"legend\" of the sharks beforehand, and was told\tby the author of McVay's courtmartial from the get-go, it did not affect my perception of the book in the slightest. I grew incensed on the ridiculous procedures of the Navy; for instance, when you read McVay's orders, he is clearly given leeway not to zigzag in times of poor visibility, and yet despite testimonies of his crew regarding the poor visibility, he was found guilty for not doing so. The reason? Visibility must have been good if he could have been shot. By the same token, they claim he failed to abandon ship quickly enough. I'd like to take the folks who made that call, put them on a ship at midnight, torpedo it, and then charge them with not evacutating quickly enough. Similarly, I'm curious why so much effort was spent on investigating why the ship sank, but relatively none focused on why the survivors sat out in the water for five days while the Navy neglected to notice the loss of one of her warships. Oh, wait, I forgot - it's the CYA syndrome. In short, Stanton clearly provided enough information to sway the average reader to rally in protest of McVay. I'm curious as to whether or not his book had any effect on the overturning of the courtmartial, which happened just before publication. Did someone slip the Navy a copy of what was to come? It seems like a remarkable coincidence otherwise. I'm smart enough to know that a good writer can paint a picture of essentially what he wants, and I have no doubt that Stanton is a talented author. What he has done, in my case, has compelled me to begin reading other books on the sinking of the Indianapolis, though I harbor doubts that any others will be as well presented. The respect and admiration he has for the survivors - as well as the sense of loss he feels for those who did not come out of the water alive - shines clearly through in this must-read book. ...more \"Japanese submarine slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte... just delivered the bomb. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for about a half an hour. Tiger. Thirteen footer. You know, you know that when you're in the water, chief? You tell by lookin' from the dorsal to the tail. Well, we didn't know. 'Cause our bomb mission had been so secret, no distre \"Japanese submarine slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte... just delivered the bomb. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for about a half an hour. Tiger. Thirteen footer. You know, you know that when you're in the water, chief? You tell by lookin' from the dorsal to the tail. Well, we didn't know. 'Cause our bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signal had been sent, huh. They didn't even list us overdue for a week. Very first light, chief. The sharks come cruisin'. So we formed ourselves into tight groups. You know it's... kinda like 'ol squares in battle like uh, you see on a calendar, like the battle of Waterloo. And the idea was, the shark goes to the nearest man and then he'd start poundin' and hollerin' and screamin' and sometimes the shark would go away. Sometimes he wouldn't go away. Sometimes that shark, he looks right into you. Right into your eyes. You know the thing about a shark, he's got... lifeless eyes, black eyes, like a doll's eye. When he comes at ya, doesn't seem to be livin'. Until he bites ya and those black eyes roll over white. And then, ah then you hear that terrible high pitch screamin' and the ocean turns red and spite of all the poundin' and the hollerin' they all come in and rip you to pieces. Y'know by the end of that first dawn, lost a hundred men! I don't know how many sharks, maybe a thousand! I don't know how many men, they averaged six an hour. On Thursday mornin' chief, I bumped into a friend of mine, Herbie Robinson from Cleveland. Baseball player, Bosun's Mate. I thought he was asleep, reached over to wake him up. Bobbed up and down in the water, just like a kinda top. Up ended. Well... he'd been bitten in half below the waist. Noon the fifth day, Mr. Hooper, a Lockheed Ventura saw us, he swung in low and he saw us. He's a young pilot, a lot younger than Mr. Hooper, anyway he saw us and come in low. And three hours later a big fat PBY comes down and start to pick us up. You know that was the time I was most frightened? Waitin' for my turn. I'll never put on a lifejacket again. So, eleven hundred men went in the water, three hundred and sixteen men come out, the sharks took the rest, June the 29, 1945. Anyway, we delivered the bomb\" What an amazing book - if I could have given this book six stars I would have. Like most people, I knew of the story mostly from the Quint's famous speech in Jaws but I now know so much more about this amazing take of heroism and survival. I now know too about the shameful treatment of the ship's captain, an egregious act that took almost 60 years to rectify. This is a must read for those who have an interest in WWII and who like me, have an unlimited amount of respect for the Greatest Generation. ...more There is a point just over halfway through In Harm's Way where author Doug Stanton struggles with the semantics of describing a World War II naval disaster. The USS Indianapolis was sunk 40 hours earlier. The survivors have been treading water, suffering from toxic doses of sun rays and ocean water, along with relentless shark attacks. Yet, for legitimate reasons, the book is only half over and things will get worse. Stanton writes, \"By late afternoon, things had mutated from horrific to unbeara There is a point just over halfway through In Harm's Way where author Doug Stanton struggles with the semantics of describing a World War II naval disaster. The USS Indianapolis was sunk 40 hours earlier. The survivors have been treading water, suffering from toxic doses of sun rays and ocean water, along with relentless shark attacks. Yet, for legitimate reasons, the book is only half over and things will get worse. Stanton writes, \"By late afternoon, things had mutated from horrific to unbearable.\" Being an English Major, I balked at this word choice. The gist seems to be things are extremely bad, but somehow they are becoming even worse. To me the words \"horrific\" and \"unbearable\" are sufficiently complementary--if not synonymous--that they lack the proper sense of escalation the author seems to intend. Am I nitpicking? Most certainly. But the issue still stands. The story of the USS Indianapolis is so very horrific, even a good author like Stanton risks running out of macabre word choices while the story is only at its midpoint. He does succeed. Personally, I find his writing at its best as he journalistically rehearses the facts and provides the relevant eyewitness perspective. Wisely, he almost never uses the disaster as a springboard into semantical indulgence. The author dutifully recounts the events, as best as they were remembered and documented by the participants. Where accounts differ, he provides footnotes rather than ostentatiously claim--like any given cable TV documentary might--that he alone has uncovered the real story. For many of us, our knowledge of the USS Indianapolis is limited primarily to a single monologue in the fictional movie Jaws . I regard that monologue as one of the greatest in Hollywood history. Yet it does not completely capture, as even Stanton struggles to in a full-length book, the sheer horror of this naval disaster. Stanton also, without belaboring the point, succinctly juxtaposes the violence and loss of one Navy ship with the destruction it assisted in bringing upon Japan by delivering the Hiroshima Bomb to its staging area in the Pacific. The facts, and the price paid in lives on both sides, need no embellishment. As such, I highly recommend In Harm's Way , for its sobering and revealing look at this key moment in World War II. ...more Anyone who has seen the original Jaws movie will probably remember the story told by the character, Quint, about the USS Indianapolis. On the night of July 29th, 1945, the USS Indianapolis, returning from a secret mission to deliver the Hiroshima atomic bomb, was torpedoed by a Japanese submarine and sunk within minutes. Of the approximately 1200 men on board, around 300 were killed immediately, and about 900 made into into the water alive. Even though the ship radioed for help, the message coul Anyone who has seen the original Jaws movie will probably remember the story told by the character, Quint, about the USS Indianapolis. On the night of July 29th, 1945, the USS Indianapolis, returning from a secret mission to deliver the Hiroshima atomic bomb, was torpedoed by a Japanese submarine and sunk within minutes. Of the approximately 1200 men on board, around 300 were killed immediately, and about 900 made into into the water alive. Even though the ship radioed for help, the message couldn't be confirmed, so the messages were ignored. The surviving men were picked up four and half days later after a bomber flying overhead happened to notice the oil slick in the water and groups of men in the water. By the time they were rescued, only a little more than 300 of the original 900 had survived. The rest had succumbed to injuries, dehydration, hallucinations, and of course, the sharks. Upon rescue, the Navy decided to court-martial survivor, Captain McVay. In an amazing turn, the Navy summoned Japanese Commander Hashimoto to testify about the incident. The prosecution's theory of the case was that McVay's failure to zig-zag had been responsible for the sinking. I won't say any more because to do so would spoil a fascinating glimpse into the long lasting tragedy that became the legacy of the Indianapolis. I decided to read this after attending my father-in-law's funeral. He was in the Navy during WWII and some of his old shipmates came to the cemetery. While speaking with one of the men, he mentioned he was a survivor of the Indianapolis. It's a tragic story filled with moments of great human endurance. The author did a wonderful job of laying out the timeline and making it a story you won't soon forget. ...more A quick read that keeps the action moving at a brisk pace. Like most I assume, I was inclined to read this based on Quint's monologue from Jaws (and even though many of his facts were totally wrong, I find that bit no less entertaining). It's just about as bad a situation as you can imagine. When the crew abandoned ship, in most cases they swallowed a bunch of seawater and oil and spent several hours vomiting it up. That was the least bad thing that happened to them . Sharks bit them in half. Deh A quick read that keeps the action moving at a brisk pace. Like most I assume, I was inclined to read this based on Quint's monologue from Jaws (and even though many of his facts were totally wrong, I find that bit no less entertaining). It's just about as bad a situation as you can imagine. When the crew abandoned ship, in most cases they swallowed a bunch of seawater and oil and spent several hours vomiting it up. That was the least bad thing that happened to them . Sharks bit them in half. Dehydration. Seawater eroding their skin. Wildly fluctuating body fluids and temperatures made them drink ocean water and things got even worse . Madness. Violence. Paranoia. Hallucinations. That's all assuming you weren't one of the crew members blown to hell by a torpedo initially. The court martial of Captain McVay was just awful, and thankfully Stanton didn't get caught up in the minutiae of that debate as it would've just been further maddening while adding little. And don't ever complain that you had a bad day at work. ...more Here's a true story that beats the heck out of any fictional thriller. Anyone who's seen the original \"Jaws\" movie remembers Quint's desciption of the sinking of the USS Indianapolis. While Quint's numbers may have been different, the description held: 1,196 men went into the water, 321 came out; sharks got the rest. In Harm's Way gives the back story and the epilogue, the lives of the men who went onto the ship, their mission, the mistakes that led to delays in looking for them, the court marti Here's a true story that beats the heck out of any fictional thriller. Anyone who's seen the original \"Jaws\" movie remembers Quint's desciption of the sinking of the USS Indianapolis. While Quint's numbers may have been different, the description held: 1,196 men went into the water, 321 came out; sharks got the rest. In Harm's Way gives the back story and the epilogue, the lives of the men who went onto the ship, their mission, the mistakes that led to delays in looking for them, the court martial that followed, and more. I read it with my mouth open in amazement and my shoulders aching with tension. Stanton's writing is just right - crisp description, tone that conveys the emotions of those he writes about, pacing that winds you up and leaves you exhausted but unable to rest as survivors are hauled from the sea and then subjected to Naval bureaucracy. Not one of the Navy's finer moments. ...more In Harm\u2019s Way is a very vivid and detailed telling of the fate of the USS Indianapolis, which was torpedoed by the Japanese in the deepest part of the Pacific Ocean, leaving the survivors stranded and drifting on the sea for days. The homecoming of the survivors was marred by the court-martial of their Captain in what the author portrays as a real miscarriage of justice; furthermore, the announcement of the end of the war just two weeks after they were rescued sidelined the survivors\u2019 tragic sto In Harm\u2019s Way is a very vivid and detailed telling of the fate of the USS Indianapolis, which was torpedoed by the Japanese in the deepest part of the Pacific Ocean, leaving the survivors stranded and drifting on the sea for days. The homecoming of the survivors was marred by the court-martial of their Captain in what the author portrays as a real miscarriage of justice; furthermore, the announcement of the end of the war just two weeks after they were rescued sidelined the survivors\u2019 tragic story. As the mother of a son just the age of these boys, my heart literally ached as I learned their horrific story. In fact, I had a hard time finishing some of the passages. It is the saddest of tragedies. Thank heavens this story has been brought to full light after all these years, Historically, everyone should know what happened to the men aboard the USS Indianapolis on July 20, 1945. But brace yourselves\u2014it\u2019s truly heartbreaking. ...more Remember the scene in \"Jaws\" where Quince tells Brody and Richard Dryfus about his experience in the Navy when his destroyer was sunk in the Pacific and the crew was hunted by sharks for 2 days before rescue? This is the book about that ship and crew. It is extremely terrifying, especially since it is a true story. The crew's encounter with sharks is only about 40% of their dangers as they cling to life waiting for help. Great book. Astounding account of a truly horrifying experience. I agree with Stephen Ambrose in that it's probably the scariest book I have ever read and probably will ever read. And not for the reasons one might imagine. It's the horrific things that can occur when humans are placed into the most trying of circumstances. I'm really at a loss to describe this book, but insist that everyone should read it. An engrossing, disturbing and moving account of the USS Indianapolis disaster. The author puts you right there amongst the survivors, in the ocean, with the sharks. A subject I knew little about other than Quint's soliloquy in Jaws, this is an excellent account. Have you ever been stranded at sea with nothing at all besides a life vest and your buddies? That\u2019s the conditions which the men of the USS Indianapolis had to attempt to survive in. There\u2019s no question why author Doug Stanton chose such a horrifying topic for his book, In Harm\u2019s Way. In Harm\u2019s Way is a nonfiction war novel written about the sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the story of her survivors. Stanton leaves nothing out through his vivid descriptions, making this wartime novel a perfe Have you ever been stranded at sea with nothing at all besides a life vest and your buddies? That\u2019s the conditions which the men of the USS Indianapolis had to attempt to survive in. There\u2019s no question why author Doug Stanton chose such a horrifying topic for his book, In Harm\u2019s Way. In Harm\u2019s Way is a nonfiction war novel written about the sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the story of her survivors. Stanton leaves nothing out through his vivid descriptions, making this wartime novel a perfect book to read even for a casual reader. Stanton also went the extra mile to create the most accurate novel about the Navy\u2019s darkest days, which allows In Harm\u2019s Way to be finely suited to hardcore war historians at the same time. Stanton\u2019s story esque style of writing also makes his book a page turner, and is semi-easy (only at some points) reading for casual readers. Doug Stanton uses vivid descriptions and quality details. Stanton does not leave anything out. Everything which you need to know about the Indy and then some is written in this book without a single detail left out. Through this and his horrifying topic, Stanton is able to paint images in my mind that will scar me for the rest of my life, but these images still made me want to keep on reading. A true horror piece would make you turn away and stop reading, while a book such as In Harm\u2019s Way just makes you realize exactly what happened between July and December 1945 to the Indy and Her crew. For example, shortly after the Indy was torpedoed, Stanton wrote, \u201cLipski had been horribly burned; it was amazing that he was even alive. His hands had been cooked down to the tendons; and his eyes were burned to two blackened holes,\u201d This is only what Stanton wrote recently after the torpedoing. I\u2019ll just let you imagine how graphically he was able to write when survivors\u2019 skin was falling off mid-ocean, men were hallucinating, sharks were circling, most men were basically nude, and, for the most part, no one had eaten or drank for four days straight. These descriptions and details are what sets Stanton\u2019s novel apart from all the others, and really make In Harm\u2019s Way a good story. Because it\u2019s a story, I am able to recommend this book to a casual reader. Stanton also writes in a style which is suited for fiction stories, rather than an accurate war novel. Why else would he start the book with the suicide of Captain McVay in his seventies, several years after the Indy\u2019s fatal disaster? He describes hate mail and horrifying nightmares before even mentioning that the boat which he had captained had sank. The answer to this question is obviously to hook readers. Most \u201cnormal\u201d war accounts tend to be good reading but a little dry. Stanton\u2019s ability to use these writing styles and forms are what keep his wartime novel moving and active, unlike other people\u2019s accounts. Another example is when the crew is actually trying to survive in the water. Some war historians would just say that that over a thousand men went into the water and after four days, only three hundred made it out. The rest either gave up or were eaten by sharks. Stanton on the other hand was able to prolong this part of the book into five chapters. He used his vivid descriptions and his form of writing to make me feel like he was telling some story which he created in his mind. He was able to add the gory effects which other historians previously would leave out. Stanton was also able to add humor in there, again making the book story-like and readable. Also, the actual events that take place in the book make it a natural story. This was the first time in history in which a Captain was court martialed because his ship sank in an act of war. To add more controversy to it, the panel brought in Mochitsura Hashimoto as a witness. Hashimoto is the Japanese admiral who commanded his men to fire the torpedoes at the USS Indianapolis. This is another reason as to why your casual reader would be drawn to reading In Harm\u2019s Way. Stanton also created the most accurate account possible. Stanton went the extra mile on his research. He read forty-two books by other authors, countless periodicals, several magazines articles, internet pages, newspaper articles, unpublished works, handbooks, brochures diaries, and official log books. For crying out loud, the man\u2019s bibliography is a whopping thirty-eight pages in font ten. That gives him an average of twenty sites per page. He also interviewed countless survivors, even spending days with them in their homes. (He spent a week with the McCoy family). Stanton attended the first ever Indy survivor\u2019s reunion and continues to go to them to this day. The books which he has read are written by notable others, such as Stephen E. Ambrose and Mochitsura Hashimoto. Due to these facts, this is one of the most accurate war accounts written to this day. This alone makes all hardcore war historians want to read In Harm\u2019s Way either to study, or just as some quality reading material. I\u2019d give this book a thumb\u2019s up and a four and a half out of five because of all of the above stated reasons. Doug Stanton wrote a masterpiece that will forever go down in the history books or at least a few libraries across the nation. I\u2019m also not the first person to believe this either. Stephen E. Ambrose said that In Harm\u2019s Way is \u201cThe most frightening book I\u2019ve ever read.\u201d Also, Mark Bowden commented, \u201cPowerful\u2026 one of the most poignant tragedies and injustices of World War II.\u201d Fast fact about the story of the USS Indianapolis, apparently Steven Spielberg and the writers of Jaws knew about the Indy. Captain Quint\u2019s famous quote states, \u201cJapanese submarine slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte... just delivered the bomb. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in 12 minutes\u2026Sometimes that shark he looks right into ya. Right into your eyes. And, you know, the thing about a shark... he's got lifeless eyes. Black eyes. Like a doll's eyes. When he comes at ya, doesn't seem to be living... until he bites ya, and those black eyes roll over white and then... ah then you hear that terrible high-pitched screamin'\u2026 So, eleven hundred men went in the water; 316 men come out and the sharks took the rest, June the 29th, 1945. Anyway, we delivered the bomb.\u201d This quote from Jaws makes Captain Quint seem very similar to the real Private Bob Gause and his story. All-in-all Doug Stanton was able to write an easy and fast reading book that is intricate, challenging, and thoroughly accurate at the same time. ...more Excellent Summary of a Truly Chilling and Forgotten Story ..., December 19, 2010 It is an odd and sad testament that THE most significant disaster in American naval history has received so little attention for so long. Maybe the demise of the USS Indianapolis belongs in the same category as \"Operation Tiger\" (the D-Day rehearsal off the English shore disrupted by German E-boats resulting in some 750 American dead) by being a failed subchapter of a more significant, but secretive bigger mission (d Excellent Summary of a Truly Chilling and Forgotten Story ..., December 19, 2010 It is an odd and sad testament that THE most significant disaster in American naval history has received so little attention for so long. Maybe the demise of the USS Indianapolis belongs in the same category as \"Operation Tiger\" (the D-Day rehearsal off the English shore disrupted by German E-boats resulting in some 750 American dead) by being a failed subchapter of a more significant, but secretive bigger mission (delivering parts of Little Boy, the first atomic bomb). Regardless, both have been characterized in a less than forgiving and suspicious manner by such words as \"incompetence\", \"negligence\" and \"cover-up\". To be honest, it was actually the eerie tale told by Quint in the movie \"Jaws\" that piqued my interest in the plight of the USS Indianapolis. The dark, foreboding tone of Quint's delivery in that dimly lit ship's galley is so chilling that it appeared to be pure fiction and I was compelled to learn more about the fate of the ship and its crew. Dave Stanton delivers a stunning and superb account of this naval disaster in his book \"In Harm's Way\" ... a presentation that I found as chilling as and memorable as Quint telling his story in \"Jaws\". \"In Harm's Way\" is nothing less than a horror story based on reality. Stanton sets the stage perfectly with the first chapter's focus on a retired US Navy captain's quiet and lingering misery almost 25 years after the USS Indianapolis disaster. The captain's story is steeped in mystery and the reader is propelled to hear the entire story about this ship from beginning to end. This chapter is reminiscent of the opening scene of \"Saving Private Ryan\" when an elderly World War II veteran breaks down amid a cemetery as he is painfully reminded of his wartime experience. Stanton then takes us back to the beginning as he chronicles the history of the USS Indianapolis, a heavy cruiser built in 1932 that had the distinction of carrying President Franklin Roosevelt to South America in 1936. The ship's wartime record commenced in 1942 and she served with distinction throughout the war. Unbeknownst to the ship's crew, the \"Indy\" was chosen late in the war (summer of 1945) to secretly deliver significant components of the first atomic bomb to the island of Tinian. It is once this cargo is delivered and the ship quietly leaves Tinian without an escort, the mystery and eventual fate of the USS Indianapolis begin to unfold. It is at this very point that the US Navy completely loses track of one of its major vessels. Although at this point in history, the front lines of the Pacific war were more or less defined as a closing ring around the islands of Japan, the enemy still had the determination and means to inflict great damage to Allied ships as Japanese submarines still lurked in the depths of the Pacific. An unescorted heavy cruiser was more than a lucrative target for one of these submarines and fear became reality as the Japanese I-58 fired torpedoes into the \"Indy\", sinking it in minutes. While the lead up to the ship's sinking is important background information, the gist of Stanton's book centers on the ordeal of the men who were \"fortunate\" to survive the initial blast and it's quick plunge to the ocean's floor. Some 900 sailors and Marines slipped into the Ocean that night to fend for themselves ... many were badly burned or wounded. To make matters worse, the US Navy has no idea the USS Indianapolis is even at sea, let alone sunk. Stanton does a great job in keeping the reader abreast of the simultaneous events occurring at sea and at Tinian/Navy headquarters, highlighting the relative incompetence of the Navy in relation to a ship responsible delivering parts of the atom bomb. Left on their own, the survivors are clustered in large and small groups peppered around the sinking site and drifting farther and farther from each other. The story takes a dark turn as it becomes a horrific tale of survival against a blazing sun, salt water, dehydration, starvation, sea sickness and feasting sharks. All these elements combined create a more sinister killer as many of the men succumb to madness. There is an ever-present aura of hopelessness and misery as Stanton weaves incredibly detailed imagery of these men clinging to maintain their sanity, let alone the will to live. It is only after one of its planes spots an initial band of survivors floating in the ocean that the Navy discovers the USS Indianapolis has been sunk ... almost four days earlier. The book then shifts course to the culpability associated with the tragedy and the blame game begins. Although the struggle of the men in the ocean (of which only 316 survive) is difficult to read, the eventual investigation into events ranging from the \"Indy\" leaving port to the men's rescue is downright sickening. It is at this point that we discover the suffering from many didn't end the day they were rescued at sea, this is especially true for the captain of the ship who is quickly tabbed as the scapegoat for the entire debacle. There are several books now available on the sinking of the USS Indianapolis, but I believe Doug Stanton's account is an excellent all-around account of the events surrounding this story. His detail of the men's struggle to survive at sea is as harrowing and unforgettable as anything I've previously read. It is easy to believe the most fortunate of those who served on the Indianapolis may have been the men who died in the explosions that ripped the ship apart, because for the survivors, being alive only seems to prolong the agony stemming from an event occurring almost 70 years ago. ...more This is well written....an amazing story. So sad, but hard to put down. I can't believe I had never heard about this ship. Lately I seem to have gotten into a groove of reading about war (human against human and human against the elements) and survival, both fictitious and real-life. There was ALL THE LIGHT YOU CANNOT SEE, and CODE NAME VERITY, and IN THE KINGDOM OF ICE, and most recently (I read the last words this morning), IN HARM\u2019S WAY. IN HARM\u2019S WAY isn\u2019t a new book. It was published in 2001 (and speaking of war, a significant year for the U.S. and subsequently much of the world), but although I was aware of it Lately I seem to have gotten into a groove of reading about war (human against human and human against the elements) and survival, both fictitious and real-life. There was ALL THE LIGHT YOU CANNOT SEE, and CODE NAME VERITY, and IN THE KINGDOM OF ICE, and most recently (I read the last words this morning), IN HARM\u2019S WAY. IN HARM\u2019S WAY isn\u2019t a new book. It was published in 2001 (and speaking of war, a significant year for the U.S. and subsequently much of the world), but although I was aware of it and the praise it had received, I hadn\u2019t gotten around to reading it. I\u2019m working on an idea for a World War II novel, though, and the sinking of the Indianapolis plays a small part in it, so I finally had an excuse to use some writing time to dive into the book. Dive I did. The author, Doug Stanton, does a masterful job of setting the stage but not lingering long on the setup. I was already aware of the basic story\u2014the cruiser Indianapolis sails out of San Francisco Bay on a secret mission, the nature of which even the crew doesn\u2019t know. The assignment: at record speed, deliver a couple of pieces of cargo to Tinian Island in the south Pacific. The cargo? The components of Little Boy, the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945. After the mission has been successfully completed, the ship continues on, unescorted. Four days later a Japanese submarine torpedoes the Indianapolis, and in twelve short minutes it sinks below the surface of a desolate and hostile and unbelievably deep ocean and is gone. The author\u2019s prologue engaged me, made me want more, and from then on it was off to the races. The old clich\u00e9, I couldn\u2019t put this book down, came alive for me as I got to know the characters and their backgrounds (their youth!) and situations and the details and horror of the tragedy and the grisly nature of what awaited them on and in the ocean and the bravery and pain and self-sacrifice and negligence and graphic examples of whatever can go wrong will go wrong and guilt and finger-pointing and the miscarriage of so-called military justice. What the sailors and marines suffered and endured and achieved was almost unbelievable. What they carried with them the rest of their lives was almost unbearable, and for some it went beyond that. It\u2019s a heart wrenching but at the same time inspiring story. We still have selfless acts and heroism in our lives; we read about exceptional people doing exceptional things every day. But the word exceptional is a double-edged sword. It exposes the reality of life today, when military service to country is restricted to a tiny percentage of the population (a good thing in most ways) and there is no significant social-help equivalent for people wanting to serve (organizations like the Peace Corps and the Gates Foundation do good work, but again don\u2019t involve many workers), and government is looked on as the enemy by many so-called citizens who spout the same kinds of prejudiced exclusionary crap that made our entry into World War II so justified and don\u2019t seem to realize that in a democracy they ARE the government. I don\u2019t have a cure for the current disinterest and minimalism in working for a common good. But you can\u2014and should\u2014read about a time when the common good was a common goal. You can read a wonderful account of a time when real\u2014not cardboard\u2014patriots stepped\u2014and swam\u2014forward to do their parts. You can read IN HARM\u2019S WAY. ...more The USS Indianapolis was the prime battleship of her time. Part of the Pacific Fleet during World War II, she was even chosen as President Roosevelt's flag ship -- the ship he would choose to ride on when visiting troops and such. After a torpedoing that caused some damage, but which she was able to survive, the Indy found herself at a shipyard in San Francisco, getting repairs. Her repairs set to last several months, her crew raced off on liberty and enjoyed the city. But due to a twist of fate The USS Indianapolis was the prime battleship of her time. Part of the Pacific Fleet during World War II, she was even chosen as President Roosevelt's flag ship -- the ship he would choose to ride on when visiting troops and such. After a torpedoing that caused some damage, but which she was able to survive, the Indy found herself at a shipyard in San Francisco, getting repairs. Her repairs set to last several months, her crew raced off on liberty and enjoyed the city. But due to a twist of fate, the Indy was brought back for duty far sooner than anyone anticipated, her repairs not yet finished. The importance of the mission that was now hers and her crew's was paramount and top secret. Not even her captain, Charles McVay, fully understood the significance of the cargo he was tasked with delivering to Tinian, an island in the Pacific. He knew only that, if their ship were to be attacked by the enemy, they were to release the cargo into the open ocean. What was this precious cargo? It was the major components of Little Boy, the atomic bomb that would shortly be dropped on Hiroshima. The USS Indianapolis was successful in its delivery. She followed her next orders, where were to take her to Leyte, another Pacific Island. But en route -- in waters Captain McVay had been assured were free of enemy submarines -- the Indy was torpedoed twice, just after midnight. Within 12 minutes, the battleship had sunk, and several hundred of her crew had been killed. Those who survived believed rescue would come. Of those nearly 900 who made it off the ship and into the salty, unforgiving sea alive, approximately 600 would not find that belief to be true; succumbing first to shark attacks, delirium, and exposure to the sun and saltwater. The loss of life was horrendous, and could have been avoided, had the Navy realized the USS Indianapolis had sunk. But they didn't; and so those survivors fought to stay alive for over 4 days and nights in the treacherous, shark-infested Pacific. Why didn't the Navy know? What went wrong? How could they have lost track of a ship that, only hours before, was carrying the United States' most effective weapon and means to end the war? Author Doug Stanton delivers the story of the ill-fated battleship and her crew. It is a story of survival and strength, told from interweaving the first-hand accounts of several of the survivors. A tale of honor, courage, and the perseverance of the human soul that will remain in the mind and heart of the reader for years to come. ***I loved this book. Absolutely loved it. I am fascinated by World War II era materials, and also by ship disasters. When I saw this book when I was working at a library, I immediately put it on my \"to-read\" list. I was not disappointed. Stanton writes this so that it reads like a novel, which I greatly appreciate. The story is poignant, at times horrifying, and altogether unforgettable. I felt emotion welling up within me on more than one occasion, and I can't help but feel hurt and sorrow for Captain McVay and the affect this event had on his life and future. A fabulous read that taught me more about our nation's history, I would recommend this book to anyone. ...more This is a sad, but compelling story. The ordeal the sailors went through floating in the Pacific Ocean for 4 days was hard to hear. The reasons they were there for so long were also hard to hear. I initially learned about the Indianapolis on Shark Week. The author tells a well-researched story and brings it to a satisfying conclusion. I like that he tried to explain the difference between those who managed to survive and those who gave up. Touching and intense novel about survival and the human spirit. In the final days of World War II, one of the greatest tragedies in the history of the US Navy occurred: the U.S.S. Indianapolis and its crew of 1,196 men went missing... and the few who noticed did nothing about it. On July 26, 1945, the Indianapolis delivered - unbeknownst to its crew - the uranium that would be used in the atomic bombs dropped on Japan less than two weeks later. In a cruel twist of irony, while it steamed on to the Philippines three nights later (July 29), the Indy was hit by In the final days of World War II, one of the greatest tragedies in the history of the US Navy occurred: the U.S.S. Indianapolis and its crew of 1,196 men went missing... and the few who noticed did nothing about it. On July 26, 1945, the Indianapolis delivered - unbeknownst to its crew - the uranium that would be used in the atomic bombs dropped on Japan less than two weeks later. In a cruel twist of irony, while it steamed on to the Philippines three nights later (July 29), the Indy was hit by torpedoes launched from one of the few Japanese submarines left patrolling the sea. It was estimated that 300 men died instantly and 900 went into the ocean in the short 20 minutes it took the ship to sink. The men who survived the sinking were in terrible shape, many of them wounded and burned, with few rafts and floatation vests available to them as they floated in the fuel oil released by their dead ship. Drawing on the testimonies of the survivors, particularly Private Giles McCoy, ship's doctor Lewis Haynes, and ship's captain Charles McVay, author Doug Stanton tells the story of the crew's ordeal. Covered in oil - many of them having swallowed some of it - and floating in harsh saltwater for days, the men had few options as they drifted further apart. Many who were injured were the first to die. Others went crazy and drowned themselves or turned on one another. And then there were the sharks, circling all day long and attacking at dusk and dawn. It was estimated that 200 men were killed by the hungry predators. In the end, only 317 survived. But the real tragedy was the missed opportunities when they might have been rescued. The last minute SOS message sent as the ship sank was disregarded and search ships called back. The Indy's failure to show up at the expected time didn't provoke any response from the Navy in the Philippines, either. Even after their rescue, additional indignity was heaped upon them as the Navy court-martialed Captain McVay, despite evidence that he had acted prudently (even the Japanese submarine commander testified that there was nothing the Indy could have done to avoid being sunk!). None of those who failed to act upon reports of the missing ship received so much as a meaningful reprimand. This is the kind of story you read, not because it has a happy ending or displays American perseverance in the face of adversity, but because of the sacrifice that has been made to preserve the liberties we take for granted. ...more<---C>Doug Stanton</---C><+++>In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the U.S.S. Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors</+++>", "Title": "In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the U.S.S. Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors"},
