{"Comments": "Can you picture Miss Melly as a gossiping complainer? Rosemary Butler marrying Ashley Wilkes? Scarlett and Belle Watling friends? Rhett mooning over a woman? I love Gone With the Wind, hell\u2013I even loved Scarlett; and that was considered a travesty against GWTW, but this book ruins Margaret Mitchell\u2019s well crafted world and makes kittens cry! I am not sure how a person can spend 12 years working on a novel that is supposed to be an accompaniment to one of the best loved books of all time and have Can you picture Miss Melly as a gossiping complainer? Rosemary Butler marrying Ashley Wilkes? Scarlett and Belle Watling friends? Rhett mooning over a woman? I love Gone With the Wind, hell\u2013I even loved Scarlett; and that was considered a travesty against GWTW, but this book ruins Margaret Mitchell\u2019s well crafted world and makes kittens cry! I am not sure how a person can spend 12 years working on a novel that is supposed to be an accompaniment to one of the best loved books of all time and have it seem like he never even read the original. The glaring inconsistencies (McCaig had Rhett\u2019s mother dying before Bonnie-Blue and GWTW cleary states that the \u201cstately Mrs. Butler\u201d was present; Ashley ended up with brown eyes,<---M> Scarlett had a 15 inch waist</---M>, she sold her mills to Ashley long before his doomed birthday party, Charles and Melanie are buried in Twelve Oak\u2019s burial ground (instead of Atlanta) and Twelve Oaks never went for taxes\u2013I could go on, but I won\u2019t) in themselves make it nearly unreadable but the way the character\u2019s themselves are written makes it sacrilege. McCraig seems like he is attempting to make Scarlett in to a gentile southern woman with no gumption or brain (having her forget her vow to \u201cnever go hungry again\u201d and then investing all her money on the stock market and losing it, effectively putting her back in the fields at Tara ) and Rhett is a morose, depressing man with none of the wit or ravishing charm that Mitchell wrote him with. And then to cap it all off\u2026the idiot burns Tara down. A building which withstood the ravages of war and still stood proudly in that red Georgia ground\u2026and he has a mad old man torch it. Please, for the love of all that is good \u2013if you loved Gone with the Wind stay far, far away from this monstrosity. ...more Dear Estate of Margaret Mitchell: I'm writing to request that you stop authorizing crappy prequels and sequels to Ms.<---F> Mitchell's book</---F>. Those of us who have a special fondness for the characters of Gone With the Wind find ourselves compelled to read them because of our interest in these well-developed and complex personalities. We then find ourselves appalled at how modern authors take liberties to turn her story into an implausible, uncharacteristic mess, and invariably try and put a smiley face Dear Estate of Margaret Mitchell: I'm writing to request that you stop authorizing crappy prequels and sequels to Ms. Mitchell's book. Those of us who have a special fondness for the characters of Gone With the Wind find ourselves compelled to read them because of our interest in these well-developed and complex personalities. We then find ourselves appalled at how modern authors take liberties to turn her story into an implausible, uncharacteristic mess, and invariably try and put a smiley face on a novel that really ended the way it should have. The latest version, <+++>Rhett Butler's People</+++>, tries to cast Rhett in the role of a misunderstood saint, when really the most interesting thing about him in Gone With the Wind is his mystery. The \"people\" Mr. McCaig has decided to surround Rhett with are stereotypical and predictable, and in case their motives weren't obvious enough, they feel compelled to write near-constant letters to each other expressing their every thought, so at no point is there any doubt about how they're feeling. Illustrative of my complaints (the implausibility, the destruction of characters, and the constant reiteration of the characters' obvious feeling) is a 6 page letter Melanie Wilkes writes to Rhett's sister Rosemary, telling her how badly she wants to have marital relations with her husband. I nearly threw the book down in disgust. I understand that the royalties from Gone with the Wind are not what they once were. Heck, the copyright's probably running out soon if it hasn't already. But please, for all of our sake, I implore you to think twice before attempting to make a penny by throwing Gone with the Wind to the dogs again. ...more So, I finished <+++>Rhett Butler's People</+++> last night. I'd seen a lot of negative reviews while I was reading but I vowed to keep an open mind, and I'm glad I did. I really enjoyed this book. It's one of the better ones I've read in awhile and one I know I will read again someday. It's NOT Gone With the Wind ; there will never be another. It's not even the same caliber as GWTW. I think a lot of people went into reading it expecting and hoping it would be and came out sorely disappointed on the other end. So, I finished Rhett Butler's People last night. I'd seen a lot of negative reviews while I was reading but I vowed to keep an open mind, and I'm glad I did. I really enjoyed this book. It's one of the better ones I've read in awhile and one I know I will read again someday. It's NOT Gone With the Wind ; there will never be another. It's not even the same caliber as GWTW. I think a lot of people went into reading it expecting and hoping it would be and came out sorely disappointed on the other end. My personal expectation was that it was going to be more about Rhett, and it was, in a sense; but it was about the people that made up his life (hence the title), some of which that are mentioned only rarely - or not at all - in GWTW. People he grew up with, his sister Rosemary. A look at his parents. A mistress he had in New Orleans before he met Scarlett. There was more of Belle in this book, and her son. I wish there had been more Scarlett. The author could have done so much with exploring Rhett's feelings; scenes standing out in my mind are when Bonnie Blue died and Scarlett fell down the stairs and miscarried, but instead he basically did nothing, only using a letter from Melanie to Rosemary to reference Bonnie's death and completely not mentioning Scarlett's fall. I was really disappointed that he didn't go there. Even though I found it lacking, it was a good read. It was well-written, interesting, and nice to have new material on one of my most favorite books ever. ...more What was the last book that brought tears to your eyes as you finished the last page? Not due to the hero/heroine\u2019s tragic death, but simply because you have finished the story? That\u2019s how I felt after finishing Rhett Butler\u2019s People tonight. Rhett Butler\u2019s People is set \u201caround\u201d Margaret Mitchell\u2019s classic novel. You meet Rhett before that fateful meeting at a Twelve Oaks picnic and the book continues to weave in and out of the well known events of GWTW. The author then takes you beyond Rhett\u2019s What was the last book that brought tears to your eyes as you finished the last page? Not due to the hero/heroine\u2019s tragic death, but simply because you have finished the story? That\u2019s how I felt after finishing Rhett Butler\u2019s People tonight. Rhett Butler\u2019s People is set \u201caround\u201d Margaret Mitchell\u2019s classic novel. You meet Rhett before that fateful meeting at a Twelve Oaks picnic and the book continues to weave in and out of the well known events of GWTW. The author then takes you beyond Rhett\u2019s dramatic exit and continues the story. Granted, he continues it for all of 90 pages, but it just feels *right* where the story goes after. Yes, I\u2019ve read Scarlett, but I prefer Mr. McCaig\u2019s version of the events. I will also admit that there were a few places in the story that I would have loved to smack Ms. O\u2019Hara and that I can\u2019t recall having that urge in \u201cher\u201d story. Rhett Butler\u2019s People is true to the original novel. Scarlett has three children, Suellen marries after the War and other characters left out of the movie are here. That\u2019s definitely a plus for me ...more I really enjoyed Gone With the Wind so when I heard of this new take on my beloved story I figured I'd take a shot and read it. Unlike most people, I didn't hate Scarlett so I was hoping to like this one as well. However I was very dissapointed. The novel begins and you feel like you've been dropped into some odd fan fiction creation. There is barely any lead up to the story and where you are. Suddenly you are on the field with Rhett and that's that. The story more or less moves along in a chrono I really enjoyed Gone With the Wind so when I heard of this new take on my beloved story I figured I'd take a shot and read it. Unlike most people, I didn't hate Scarlett so I was hoping to like this one as well. However I was very dissapointed. The novel begins and you feel like you've been dropped into some odd fan fiction creation. There is barely any lead up to the story and where you are. Suddenly you are on the field with Rhett and that's that. The story more or less moves along in a chronological order from before Rhett met Scarlett to about a year or so after he leaves her in GWTW. The story is told from various point of views and I think that's the ultimate downfall of this novel. The readers already know what Scarlett thought and did - why did we have to revisit her pov? I would have rather stayed mainly with Rhett and perhaps two other vital people. I did enjoy having Melanie's pov however I feel that this author did a disservice to her character towards the end. The other downfall in this novel is the fact that it completely skips over major storylines from GWTW. The most glaring would be Bonnie Blue's death. Her death and Rhett's sorrow is mentioned in passing in a letter from Melanie to Rhett's sister Rosemary but that's about it. That is a huge turning point for Rhett in GWTW and his character and I can't imagine why this author felt that it didn't need to be explored from Rhett's eyes. Finally the fluidity in this novel is just not there. There are so many fits and starts to this novel it will make your head spin. There's not much of a rhyme or reason to a lot that is going on. For the avid GWTW fan this is sure to dissapoint, even more than Scarlett. I don't really see much of a reason for any fan to read this novel I am sorry to say. ...more Takes Gone with the Wind and poops on it. Rhett Butler is one of the best romantic heroes, both in literature and cinema. He deserves a good companion novel or sequel or prequel told from his point of view. This aint it. Mr. Darcy has a kazillion books recently, and I hope ole Rhetty gets another shot. This book sucks. For reals. You really need to read \"Gone With the Wind\" first in order to really appreciate this book. The author was commissioned by the estate of Margaret Mitchell to write this \"parallel sequel\" to GWTW, and he has kept faithful to her style. In it, we get background about Rhett's youth, his family, and many characters who are just briefly mentioned in GWTW. The story is told through Rhett's eyes. It goes through his youth, his relationship with Scarlett, and takes it past where GWTW ends and on to the You really need to read \"Gone With the Wind\" first in order to really appreciate this book. The author was commissioned by the estate of Margaret Mitchell to write this \"parallel sequel\" to GWTW, and he has kept faithful to her style. In it, we get background about Rhett's youth, his family, and many characters who are just briefly mentioned in GWTW. The story is told through Rhett's eyes. It goes through his youth, his relationship with Scarlett, and takes it past where GWTW ends and on to the conclusion (which I will not give away). I thoroughly enjoyed this book---could not put it down. It was like visiting old friends again. I will read it again and again, just like I have read \" Gone With the Wind \" so many times. ...more I give up - I am halfway through and I just don't care what happens to anyone. In fact, this has dampened my love of Gone With the Wind and Rhett Butler, so I am just stopping now. I read the sequel by Alexandra Ripley, Scarlett, and it was very good. But this - it has no heart, no emotional punch and way too much about the war. All the emotional scenes are flat and short and I didn't really learn much about Rhett Butler that I hadn't surmised from the original book, except that according to the I give up - I am halfway through and I just don't care what happens to anyone. In fact, this has dampened my love of Gone With the Wind and Rhett Butler, so I am just stopping now. I read the sequel by Alexandra Ripley, Scarlett, and it was very good. But this - it has no heart, no emotional punch and way too much about the war. All the emotional scenes are flat and short and I didn't really learn much about Rhett Butler that I hadn't surmised from the original book, except that according to the author, he was not as much of a rake and a scoundrel (with a big heart) as I had imagined. I liked him better in my mind. I'd love to hear from someone who read the book and liked it! ...more For fans of GONE WITH THE WIND this might be the book for you as this covers the life of Rhett Butler before he meets Scarlett and during the time they're together though it does not follow the movie so much as the novel. There's a lot more sub stories taking place than I expected especially focused upon Rhett's siblings. Readers sensitive to the horrors of American slavery may want to skip this one as there are graphic details. OVERALL GRADE: B minus. The Margaret Mitchell Estate should have left well enough alone. I'm not even sure where to start in putting my feelings about this book into words. Gone With the Wind is one of my all time favorite books, and Rhett is right up there in my favorite, fascinating male characters in fiction and I was looking forward to a good meaty look into Rhett's life before Scarlett. Boy was I ever wrong. This book is called Rhett Butler's People for a reason - it's not just about Rhett, it's about all the peop The Margaret Mitchell Estate should have left well enough alone. I'm not even sure where to start in putting my feelings about this book into words. Gone With the Wind is one of my all time favorite books, and Rhett is right up there in my favorite, fascinating male characters in fiction and I was looking forward to a good meaty look into Rhett's life before Scarlett. Boy was I ever wrong. This book is called Rhett Butler's People for a reason - it's not just about Rhett, it's about all the people in his life and there are WAY too many of them. I totally agree with other reviewers on Amazon US that the story seemed to be told as snapshots in a person's life instead of true story telling, and the way he jumped back and forth from one person's point of view to another was very distracting to this reader, and I admit to giving up at 150 pages and from looking at some of the other one and two star reviews on Amazon US I am very glad I did so. I was quite irritated at the way the author used scenes and characters from the original book and wrote his own version of them, and worse yet worked his new characters into those scenes. This author even managed to ruin Prissy and Aunt Pitty Pat, and from reading the other reviews I see that he managed to rewrite \"history\" as Ashley, Melanie and even Scarlett are not what they were in GWTW. For me, the mistake made was telling the story of Rhett and his \"people\". Rhett is a fascinating character who had a colorful past before he met Scarlett. He traveled to burgeoning San Francisco and the California Gold fields - a colorful period in U.S. history - and it's barely touched upon and only via letters Rhett wrote to his sister. Letters, I might add that were destroyed by their father so she never read them, yet they are recreated in the book as if they were? What's up with that? I think if the MM Estate and taken the tact of writing Rhett's story totally from his viewpoint and given me a good strong meaty story about Rhett and his life before Scarlett, and not rewritten moments from GWTW they might have had a winner here instead of a bomb. IMO, this book is not worth wasting time or money on, there are too many good books to be read and too little time in this world. If you're dead set on reading the rest of the story, get it from the library and then if you love it, buy it. ...more I am embarrassed to include this as my first book of 2008, but there it is. The fact that it took me six weeks to finish tells you how interesting it was. The plot was okay; I'm almost always okay with reworkings of classic plots from the viewpoint of a different character. But the writing was unbearably poor. If I hadn't cared very, very deeply about the characters -- a legacy entirely of Margaret Mitchell and having nothing to do with this book -- I would have been unable to finish it. By compar I am embarrassed to include this as my first book of 2008, but there it is. The fact that it took me six weeks to finish tells you how interesting it was. The plot was okay; I'm almost always okay with reworkings of classic plots from the viewpoint of a different character. But the writing was unbearably poor. If I hadn't cared very, very deeply about the characters -- a legacy entirely of Margaret Mitchell and having nothing to do with this book -- I would have been unable to finish it. By comparison, I liked _Scarlett_ very much. As a purist I'm not sure I can ever accept it as canon, and Scarlett's running around with a proto-IRA is a bit silly. But that book I couldn't put down and read cover to cover in 24 hours. Again, I was invested because of my obsession with the original _GWTW_, but at least _Scarlett_ kept me entertained while it twisted characters all out of sorts. This one? Skip it. ...more I first heard about RBP by browsing through this site, and I was very excited to find a copy. My excitement started to fizzle as soon as I began reading it. McCaig spent 12 years writing this authorized prequel, but chose time and again to alter (or blatantly ignore) key events from not only GWTW, but also from the (also authorized) sequel Scarlett . Apparently, he felt that disregarding Scarlett was prefectly acceptable, stating that \"I think [the trust:] wanted to expunge Scarlett - they were ge I first heard about RBP by browsing through this site, and I was very excited to find a copy. My excitement started to fizzle as soon as I began reading it. McCaig spent 12 years writing this authorized prequel, but chose time and again to alter (or blatantly ignore) key events from not only GWTW, but also from the (also authorized) sequel Scarlett . Apparently, he felt that disregarding Scarlett was prefectly acceptable, stating that \"I think [the trust:] wanted to expunge Scarlett - they were genuinely embarrassed by it,\" says McCaig. Be that as it may, it was authorized and part of the GWTW canon, whether the Mitchell Estate (or fans) were pleased with it or not, and should not have been disregarded. A great deal of the story is wasted fleshing out characters connected to Rhett that were previously unknown, that (in my opinion) readers were better off not knowing in the first place. His childhood friends were uninteresting for the most part, as were most details about his relationships with his parents. The one interesting new character was that of Tazewell Watling, son of the notorious Belle and (presumably, by all who know him) Rhett. I was bored senseless through it 99% of it, and hoped the story would be greatly improved once Scarlett, Ashley, Melanie, et al. entered the story. But that didn't happen. Instead, I was horrified to see beloved characters acting completely unlike themselves. Melanie eavesdropping and finding out Scarlett didn't love Charles? Ashley actually loving Scarlett? Melanie always being aware of how Scarlett and Ashley felt about each other, and expecting them to have an affair, ultimately seducing her own husband for fear that their forced celibacy would send him into Scarlett's arms? (Not to mention writing letters to Rosemary (Butler) Ravanel detailing how much she hated the celibacy. As if Melanie, proper Southern lady that she was, would ever put such a thing in writing? Pffft.) And since when is Ella epileptic? The one thing that might have redeemed this atrocity somewhat would have been knowing Rhett's private thoughts about Scarlett's miscarriage and the death of Bonnie. The miscarriage was ignored as though it never happened. Bonnie's death and the days following it were not told from Rhett's perspective at all, but Melanie's via a letter to Rosemary. Two of the most wrenching moments in Rhett's married life, and we are given nothing from Rhett's point of view? Both played a major role in his later decision to leave Scarlett, so why are we not privy to his feelings about these events? The story continues past GWTW's ending. Rhett digs Melanie's grave at Twelve Oaks (wasn't that lost due to unpaid taxes?) and rides away immediately after. Scarlett and the children (including Beau) come home to Tara, along with Rosemary and her son Louis Valentine. (Ridiculous name.) Ashley sells the sawmills, and moves back to the ruins of Twelve Oaks. Vandals strike Tara. Scarlett's home in Atlanta is burned by an arsonist. Even though they are paid well, field workers refuse to come to Tara, leaving the family to manage on their own, and once again Scarlett (who now has no money) must struggle to keep Tara and feed her family. (So much for \"As God is my witness, I'll never be hungry again\", eh?) Finally, in desperation, Scarlett telegraphs Rhett and asks him to come home, and he does. And where has Rhett been? London. Paris. Still not giving a damn about anything, much less himself, trying his best to forget Scarlett. Seeing the dashing Rhett Butler reduced to a lovelorn man who doesn't care if he lives or dies is... well, disgusting. Yes, love hurts sometimes, and the pain of loss can be overwhelming. Still, it seems implausible that Rhett would allow himself to wallow in grief or self-pity for very long. I also find it unfathomable that he would come home the instant he is beckoned. Grieving and unhappy as he may be, you would think there would be a small spark of his former self intact that would not allow him to come running the moment Scarlett crooked her finger at him. As Rhett makes his journey home, Belle Watling alerts Scarlett and Rosemary that her father (Isaiah, the former overseer of the Butler plantation) along with two others have been terrorizing Tara, hoping for Scarlett to send for Rhett so that Isaiah could kill him in retaliation for the death of his son, killed in a duel with Rhett (when Rhett was assumed to have fathered her baby). The women devise a plan to put an end to things and save Rhett from being killed, but Ashley and Will Benteen (Sue Ellen's husband) intervene, resulting in the death of Will. (Ashley as the dashing hero out to save the day was humorous, to say the least.) Rhett returns (safely), pays off all the debts, and things are looking bright for the couple. A much-wanted reconciliation is taking place between the couple, and a happy ending is in sight when a grand barbeque takes place at Tara. But now we come to the final disgrace of this ill-written thing. Isaiah Watling returns and sets fire to Tara. If I hadn't been so angry, I might have wept. Throughout everything Scarlett went through in her life, Tara was the one mainstay in her life, her one safe haven. I suppose it wasn't enough to ruin the characters and have them do things they would never have done, or to completely ignore details both big and small in the writing of this shameful travesty. In order to put the final nail in the coffin of all the beloved aspects of GWTW, he had to get rid of Tara, too. Rather than enhancing the classic novel, RBP all but destroys all the things readers held dear about Mitchell's wonderfully complex group of characters. Alexandra Ripley's Scarlett did not, in my opinion, keep these characters true to form throughout that novel either, but the majority of it was enjoyable to read, and the writing style much more in line with Mitchell's than McCaig's managed to be. I can't understand why he was chosen to write this... I guess my first clue that this was to be a bad book should have been the fact that I've never heard of him. What a terrible, terrible disappointment this book turned out to be. ...more Several years ago, a movie came out about the assassination of Bobby Kennedy called, plainly, Bobby . The twist, however, was that the audience never saw Bobby; the movie instead revolved around all of the people in the hotel potentially affected by RFK's assassination. Despite the title, Bobby was rather insignificant. Rhett Butler's People takes the same strategy. I decided to read this since I was in need of a GWTW fix and the idea of learning Rhett's side of the story sounded interesting. I as Several years ago, a movie came out about the assassination of Bobby Kennedy called, plainly, Bobby . The twist, however, was that the audience never saw Bobby; the movie instead revolved around all of the people in the hotel potentially affected by RFK's assassination. Despite the title, Bobby was rather insignificant. Rhett Butler's People takes the same strategy. I decided to read this since I was in need of a GWTW fix and the idea of learning Rhett's side of the story sounded interesting. I assumed Rhett would be the main character; not so. Most of the novel is about Rhett's family--mostly his sister--and other characters from GWTW. I think we see more of Rosemary Butler and Belle Watling than Rhett! I felt very cheated by this approach. Moreover, there are some very important events in which reading Rhett's perspective would have been fascinating, but, no, we get someone else's. The worst has to be Bonnie's death, which McCaig just has Melanie mention in a letter. We NEVER hear Rhett's side, and she was HIS daughter! There are countless examples of this lazy storytelling, but I'm too busy to write all of them--and too tired. Additionally, Rhett does not resemble the Rhett Butler we all know. I think it's safe to say most people like Rhett because he ignores convention, he's a scoundrel, he kicks ass and takes names. Well, the Rhett in Rhett Butler's People is a whining, weepy pansy. He seems to have a heart of gold and never, never does anything to challenge oppressive standards. Everything that made Rhett a bad ass in GWTW is, well, gone with the wind. <---A>Donald McCaig</---A> also did not read the original text--something I gathered from reading other reviews here. You would think he could at least watch the movie! The characters are so distorted they do not resemble the ones we know. Melanie is a conniving bitch; Ashley is an idiot who seems to have an appreciation for ghosts and superstition by the end; Scarlett has no temper; Rhett is a boy scout; Mammy is barely there; Bonnie is always happy and craves no attention; Belle doesn't own a whore house. Um, what novel is he trying to compose? Who the hell is this about? The thing I hated most, though, was the ending. Scarlett and Rosemary are confronting the Watlings for destroying her property--yes, the fool has Scarlett and Rhett's Atlanta townhouse burn down--among other things, but Ashley and Will sweep in to try to save the day. Ashley, a former OFFICER in the Confederate army, mind you, trips when trying to use his sword, and Will dies saving him. Now, I've always found Ashley to be an equally sympathetic and infuriating character. He was weak emotionally, but the guy served in war! Come on! Why would he suddenly trip? This only makes Ashley appear to be the ultimate feckless dumbass. I have a lot of issues with Will dying. First, I don't like how McCaig leaves Suellen completely alone and homeless--and destroys whatever progress she and Scarlett have made in their relationship (however minor). I also don't see the rationale in killing off one of the most likable characters in the whole story. What's the point? Similarly, Belle Watling dies from being shot by her own father--while Tara burns to the ground! Yes, that's right, the idiot burns down Tara, freakin' Tara. And its destruction is supposed to be some kind of triumphant ending, leading to a rebuilding of Scarlett and Rhett's life together Phoenix-style. I was really speechless when reading it. The only thing that saved this novel from a one-star rating was the way it was written. The language and style were effective, and, had this been a novel on its own rather than a revision of GWTW, I probably would have liked it more. But it isn't, and that's the point. Scarlett is considered an abomination by GWTW fans, but I have to confess I prefer it to Rhett Butler's People . At least Alexandra Ripley tried to follow GWTW and still had Rhett act like the bad ass he is supposed to be. But this, I... ...more As a borderline psychotic fan of Gone with the Wind and even the trashy sequel Scarlett, my heart was open to liking this book. Sigh. I was not happy. The title is apt; there are so many \"people\" in this book that it made my brain hurt. Just when I would start to get the characters straight, the author would just start killing them off. There's more blood in this thing than Saw II. This is also the kind of book where characters do things that real people never do, such as put a finger to someone As a borderline psychotic fan of Gone with the Wind and even the trashy sequel Scarlett, my heart was open to liking this book. Sigh. I was not happy. The title is apt; there are so many \"people\" in this book that it made my brain hurt. Just when I would start to get the characters straight, the author would just start killing them off. There's more blood in this thing than Saw II. This is also the kind of book where characters do things that real people never do, such as put a finger to someone else's mouth to shush them (I swear this happens every other page). The only reason to suffer such foolishness is to see Rhett and Scarlett live happily ever after. Fear not--of course they do, but only after every other person in the universe is dead. OH! And the author completely ignores the existence of that other sequel and creates a brand new version of events, which sort of gets my goat. Who does he think he is? The best part of this book is its fill-in-the-blank approach to the story. What was Rhett's childhood like? Why was he really in jail when Scarlett came to visit with her curtain-dress? What is his history with Belle Watling? What did Rhett and Scarlett, um, do on their honeymoon? Where did Rhett go after leaving Scarlett at the end of GWTW? You too can know the answers to these questions if you really give a damn. ...more I admit I had mixed feelings about this book. I recall too vividly my disappointment in \"Scarlett\" by Alexandra Ripley, which was also billed as a sequel to \"Gone with the Wind.\" I absolutely hated that book! It took a bit to get past the frequent use of \"the N-word,\" (by the way - I hate that phrase! We give the word so much more negative impact by refusing to say the word... sort of like \"He who must not be named\" in the Harry Potter novels.) Anyway, the use of the word is compatible with the I admit I had mixed feelings about this book. I recall too vividly my disappointment in \"Scarlett\" by Alexandra Ripley, which was also billed as a sequel to \"Gone with the Wind.\" I absolutely hated that book! It took a bit to get past the frequent use of \"the N-word,\" (by the way - I hate that phrase! We give the word so much more negative impact by refusing to say the word... sort of like \"He who must not be named\" in the Harry Potter novels.) Anyway, the use of the word is compatible with the time frame of the novel. After the first chapter or so, I found this book hard to put down. It does correspond nicely with \" Gone with the Wind \" and the main characters were fleshed out well. Some of the peripheral characters could have used more of a fleshing out, but the length of the novel probably prevented that. Overall, \"Rhett Butler's People\" gives a much more satisfactory ending than either Margaret Mitchell's classic novel or \"Scarlett\". ...more So, in middle school I read Gone with the Wind and Scarlett and fell in love with the books - well, mostly Gone with the Wind. I will admit, I have a problem...if I like a book and there is a sequel, I will read it. Even if it's horrible. That said, this book I thought was really good. The author does a really good job with Rhett's role, it really felt much the same as Gone with the Wind. It made me want to read it all over again. He does add a new character who is really central to Rhett's life, So, in middle school I read Gone with the Wind and Scarlett and fell in love with the books - well, mostly Gone with the Wind. I will admit, I have a problem...if I like a book and there is a sequel, I will read it. Even if it's horrible. That said, this book I thought was really good. The author does a really good job with Rhett's role, it really felt much the same as Gone with the Wind. It made me want to read it all over again. He does add a new character who is really central to Rhett's life, which changes the plot from what occurred in Gone with the Wind , but surprisingly, I was okay with that. His sister Rosemary adds an interesting perspective. I really liked how he explained Rhett's relationship with Belle Watling as well. Made her so much more likable, even though I liked her the first time. ...more Not wasting my time on this. What was I thinking? Abandon ship, I'm jumping overboard! I know some of the reviews for this book haven't been great but I personally really liked this story. True, it isn't the same as GWTW but I loved all the background on Rhett. I thought the way Rhett's story and things we know from GWTW were woven together was really neat. Seeing Scarlett and some of the other characters in a different light was very interesting. I also thought this sequel was better than Scarlett. Though I did enjoy both. I think I would have given this 5 stars except for the endi I know some of the reviews for this book haven't been great but I personally really liked this story. True, it isn't the same as GWTW but I loved all the background on Rhett. I thought the way Rhett's story and things we know from GWTW were woven together was really neat. Seeing Scarlett and some of the other characters in a different light was very interesting. I also thought this sequel was better than Scarlett. Though I did enjoy both. I think I would have given this 5 stars except for the ending. I loved all of the story up until where GWTW leaves off and I think this book handled the after parts better than Scarlett but I still don't know that it could compete with the way I had imagined the story to end. I don't think the ending was bad, it just wasn't how I had always imagined it would be. ...more I am very excited about this book- although the \"sequel\" to GWTW was disappointing(but admittedly, entertaining in a cheesy way). Don MacCaig is a well known writer in my border collie world- he wrote one of my favorite books \"Nop's Trials\" and some excelllent non-fiction as well. He is an incredibly talented writer who can move a story well and with beautiful language. I don't think they could have picked a better author to tackle Rhett's story. Ok.. finished it... I was very satisfied with it- w I am very excited about this book- although the \"sequel\" to GWTW was disappointing(but admittedly, entertaining in a cheesy way). Don MacCaig is a well known writer in my border collie world- he wrote one of my favorite books \"Nop's Trials\" and some excelllent non-fiction as well. He is an incredibly talented writer who can move a story well and with beautiful language. I don't think they could have picked a better author to tackle Rhett's story. Ok.. finished it... I was very satisfied with it- would recommend to GWTW fans- probably couldn't stand on its own but is a good companion to the original. I enjoyed Belle Watling's backstory, the explanation of Rhett's \"ward\" and the Butler/O'Hara marriage. Some actions/storylines seemed to come out of nowhere but overall I enjoyed it as an entertaining read. ...more Basically the storyline of the novel is Gone With the Wind from Rhett Butler's point of view and it was a bit of a disappointment really. Gone With the Wind is one of my favourite novels and I found all the characters in RBP, even the major ones of Rhett and Scarlett, are out of character. There is also a lot of errors that contradict the original, characters dying when they lived in GWTW and vice versa, Melanie knowing about Scarlet being in love with her husband, etc. As a standalone historica Basically the storyline of the novel is Gone With the Wind from Rhett Butler's point of view and it was a bit of a disappointment really. Gone With the Wind is one of my favourite novels and I found all the characters in RBP, even the major ones of Rhett and Scarlett, are out of character. There is also a lot of errors that contradict the original, characters dying when they lived in GWTW and vice versa, Melanie knowing about Scarlet being in love with her husband, etc. As a standalone historical fiction novel, Rhett Butler's People is okay but as a complement to Gone With the Wind it sucks! ...more Were it not for Gone With the Wind , there would be absolutely no reason to read Rhett Butler's People . Even with GWTW , I'm still wondering if I should have devoted a few hours to this novel. It relies so heavily on GWTW that it can't stand alone and really wouldn't make much sense without it. Like Ripley's unfortunate Scarlett , this novel was authorized by the Margaret Mitchell Estate. These two follow-ups, though, are entirely contradictory. No, Scarlett does not go rowing off to Ireland for Were it not for Gone With the Wind , there would be absolutely no reason to read Rhett Butler's People . Even with GWTW , I'm still wondering if I should have devoted a few hours to this novel. It relies so heavily on GWTW that it can't stand alone and really wouldn't make much sense without it. Like Ripley's unfortunate Scarlett , this novel was authorized by the Margaret Mitchell Estate. These two follow-ups, though, are entirely contradictory. No, Scarlett does not go rowing off to Ireland for a c-section by a crazy Celtic witch. Instead, we see Rhett's life pre- and post- GWTW . If you were wondering about Rhett and Belle's alleged lovechild, look here for your answer. You even get hints about Scarlett's mother Ellen's unrequited love for her cousin Phillipe. You won't find the hyper-romanticized South of Mitchell's novel, but while the author depicts Reconstruction as a pretty awful time, he does lapse into the occasional nostalgic revelry for Mitchell's South. To be clear, though, this nostalgia is not for the Old South proper but for GWTW itself. The novel veers into the embarrassing, however, with Melanie Wilkes' letters to new friend (and newly-created character) Rosemary Butler Haynes Ravanel--Rhett's little sister. We learn about Melanie's ill-advised ardor for husband Ashley (remember, she isn't allowed to have any more children because of her health), including her suggestion that she and Ashley use \"certain contrivances\" (i.e. birth control). Being a gentleman (and all-around useless wuss), Ashley is appalled. Thus, Miss Melly must forgo the \"tender violence\" (I told you this was a cringe-fest) of their passions. Rhett Butler's People isn't truly awful, but it isn't very good either. And considering the immense cultural power and resonance of GWTW , RBP predictably pales in comparison. ...more There will never be another GWTW but: I always like historical fiction, especially when it\u2019s fairly accurate and helps me learn more about \u201ccommon people\u201d of an era.\u201d McCaig gave me a good picture of life in Charleston and Atlanta just before, during and after the Civil War. The story is really not well related to the tale of GWTW because the author spins a tale of a man\u2019s journey before and after the Civil War. But, it is helpful to have read GWTW before reading RBP since the reader is familiar There will never be another GWTW but: I always like historical fiction, especially when it\u2019s fairly accurate and helps me learn more about \u201ccommon people\u201d of an era.\u201d McCaig gave me a good picture of life in Charleston and Atlanta just before, during and after the Civil War. The story is really not well related to the tale of GWTW because the author spins a tale of a man\u2019s journey before and after the Civil War. But, it is helpful to have read GWTW before reading RBP since the reader is familiar with some of the names, places, and problems in the story. This read was from a man\u2019s point of view so I appreciated the lack of constant dwelling on the emotional love and war story and reading about Rhett\u2019s success in \u201ca man\u2019s world\u201d where he believed he had more control of his destiny. During GWTW, Rhett was such a mysterious character to Scarlett, always coming and going, and her being the self-centered Southern Bell, I enjoyed hearing Rhett\u2019s version. I find it fascinating that McCaig painted Rhett as coming from a dysfunctional family and weaves his coping mechanisms into the manner in which he deals with spoiled, self-centered Scarlett. I also liked being \u201cin\u201d on the relationship between Belle and Rhett. Even though duels were outlawed by then, it\u2019s an appealing way to integrate a family feud into the plot line. There were some deviations from GWTW but, after all, this is another version of the Scarlett era. I\u2019m hoping for a sequel from Mammy\u2019s or Porgy\u2019s point of view and then no more sequels because they will never measure up the summer of my teen years when I read GWTW 7 times, cover to cover and had a prom dress made from the descriptions of Scarlett\u2019s ball gowns. Fiddle-dee-dee ...more Finally finished this book. Gone With the Wind is my favorite classic, so I am always eager to read the authorized follow-ups. Um...yeah. So far two strike outs (don't even get me started on Alexandra Ripley's sequal!). I feel like I could have really appreciated the complexities of some of McCaig's supporting characters if only his prose wasn't so choppy, awkward, and bland. Where was the passion? The grandeur? The glorious description of the South pre Civil War and the bleakness following the Finally finished this book. Gone With the Wind is my favorite classic, so I am always eager to read the authorized follow-ups. Um...yeah. So far two strike outs (don't even get me started on Alexandra Ripley's sequal!). I feel like I could have really appreciated the complexities of some of McCaig's supporting characters if only his prose wasn't so choppy, awkward, and bland. Where was the passion? The grandeur? The glorious description of the South pre Civil War and the bleakness following the surrender? Scarlett in this book was so two dimensional! And Rhett's finest moments came in the very beginning as you witnessed his rough path to adulthood. The best characters in my opinion were Rosemary Butler and Andrew Ravenal and even then I only mildly tolerated the first and ended up loathing the second (although I guess the fact that I was able to feel such a strong emotion has to give the author some credit). Okay, to be fair, there are a few things I didn't mind so much (hence the second star). 1) The ending. Much more believable than Ripley's sequel. Thank god no one travelled to Ireland. 2) Melanie was explored more (through her letters to Rosemary) which allowed me to see how incredibly perceptive she truly was. 3) McCaig did a really good job describing two horrific scenes--that of the Trunk Master's execution and what ends up happening to Tunis Bonneau. Both scenes literally make me cringe. I hope the next author who tackles GWTW (if there is another attempt) does a better job. ...more I enjoyed Rhett Butler's People so much that I was disappointed when it ended. The author was commissioned by the estate of Margaret Mitchell to write this \"parallel sequel\" to Gone With The Wind , and he has kept faithful to her style and to the story and details of Mitchell's original classic. This gives an account of Rhett's life prior to meeting Scarlett and describes the lives of his friends and family. In doing so, it gives a well-researched look into life in Charleston Atlanta just prior t I enjoyed Rhett Butler's People so much that I was disappointed when it ended. The author was commissioned by the estate of Margaret Mitchell to write this \"parallel sequel\" to Gone With The Wind , and he has kept faithful to her style and to the story and details of Mitchell's original classic. This gives an account of Rhett's life prior to meeting Scarlett and describes the lives of his friends and family. In doing so, it gives a well-researched look into life in Charleston Atlanta just prior to and during the civil war. Certainly, there are a million possibilities for his story, but I enjoyed this take. I really enjoyed Gone With the Wind , but Rhett was my favorite character and there were so many unanswered questions about him. They are answered in this fleshed out sequel/addition, which helps the reader to understand and appreciate his character all the more. I think the author did a wonderful job of tying the stories together and maintaining the characters and setting. He had to satisfy two audiences - Margaret Mitchell fans and Civil War buffs. That he was able to offer such a satisfying read, while tying in small tidbits from the original story (e.g. how Scarlett came to be in possession of the yellow scarf she gave to Ashley is particularly clever), is impressive indeed. ...more Do not read any further if you don't want any spoilers and I apologize for the rant that follows... Yes, I actually bought the book @ Costco because I couldn't wait for a library copy. So around the last third of the book, when the author described Ashley's eyes as brown I wanted my money back. Ashley's eyes are a drowsy gray I believe, not brown! Also can any true fan of GWTW imagine Belle Watling staying at Tara as an invited guest? I read Scarlett by Alexandra Ripley (and learned to live with Do not read any further if you don't want any spoilers and I apologize for the rant that follows... Yes, I actually bought the book @ Costco because I couldn't wait for a library copy. So around the last third of the book, when the author described Ashley's eyes as brown I wanted my money back. Ashley's eyes are a drowsy gray I believe, not brown! Also can any true fan of GWTW imagine Belle Watling staying at Tara as an invited guest? I read Scarlett by Alexandra Ripley (and learned to live with parts of it) and with this book the ending is completely different than that book and Rhett's sister Rosemary has been completely rewritten. I thought this was going to be a prequel of sorts, with Rhett's background and his point of view of the storyline of GWTW. I can't believe this was authorized. ...more Ein Stern ist noch zu gut f\u00fcr dieses sehr freie, aber in erster Linie schrecklich politisch korrekte Phantasie \u00fcber Motive und Gestalten aus Vom Winde verweht . In der Hauptrolle ein Rhett Buttler, der als geborener M\u00e4rtyrer f\u00fcr die Political Correctness mehr oder weniger vom Himmel in die S\u00fcdstaaten des 19. Jahrhunderts gefallen scheint. Ein Rhett, der sich regelm\u00e4\u00dfig von seinem Papa den Hintern daf\u00fcr versohlen l\u00e4sst, weil er so gerne mit seinen schwarzen Freunden spielt, ein Rhett, der sich ein Ein Stern ist noch zu gut f\u00fcr dieses sehr freie, aber in erster Linie schrecklich politisch korrekte Phantasie \u00fcber Motive und Gestalten aus Vom Winde verweht . In der Hauptrolle ein Rhett Buttler, der als geborener M\u00e4rtyrer f\u00fcr die Political Correctness mehr oder weniger vom Himmel in die S\u00fcdstaaten des 19. Jahrhunderts gefallen scheint. Ein Rhett, der sich regelm\u00e4\u00dfig von seinem Papa den Hintern daf\u00fcr versohlen l\u00e4sst, weil er so gerne mit seinen schwarzen Freunden spielt, ein Rhett, der sich einfach so unter die Reisnigger stecken l\u00e4sst, weil er nicht zum Gentleman taugt, ein Rhett, der sich ein Kind unterschieben l\u00e4sst und daf\u00fcr zum Duell gefordert wird. Als Folge dieses Zweikampfs mit der Pistole wird am Ende Tara abgefackelt, unmittelbar davor haben sich Rhett und Scarlett wieder vers\u00f6hnt. Negativer Gegenentwurf zu Rhett ist der tollk\u00fchne Andrew Ravanel, ein Weiberheld der, f\u00fcr den Bastard verantwortlich ist, der zu besagtem Duell f\u00fchrt, Anf\u00fchrer eines Saboteurtrupps, der auf dem Territorium der Union Angst und Schrecken verbreitet. Der sp\u00e4tetere Ku-Kluxer und zeitweilige Ehemann von Rhetts Schwester bekommt von ihr einen Tritt, als die Gemahlin f\u00fcr einen Klan-Kumpel eine Kutte n\u00e4hen soll. Als gute Brieffreundin von Melanie Wilkes darf sie am Ende den armen Witwer Ashley heiraten, so dass Twelve Oaks wieder gedeiht. Die Erben von Margaret Mitchell m\u00fcssen die Rassismusvorw\u00fcrfe gegen den Klassiker und der \u00c4rger \u00fcber das von ihnen genehmigte G\u00e4nschenbuch Scarlett vollkommen um den Verstand gebracht haben, dass sie diesem Werk einer absoluten literarischen Unbegabung ihren Segen gegeben haben. Das einzige, was f\u00fcr Douglas McCaig spricht, ist seine Anekdotenkenntnis \u00fcber den alten S\u00fcden, daf\u00fcr muss seine letzten Lekt\u00fcre von Vom Winde verweht wohl in fr\u00fchesten Jugendtagen erfolgt sein, so viele Fehler und Inkonsistenzen sind ihm beim Umgang mit Informationen aus der Quelle unterlaufen. Keineswegs nur beim Duell, f\u00fcr das es in der Vorlage ja keinen (und schon gar keinen biologischen) Grund gibt. Scarlett ist bei DM ein halbes Jahr mit Charles Hamilton verheiratet und nicht zwei Monate wie bei MM, dergleichen h\u00e4uft sich derart, dass ich am Ende zu dem Fazit komme: Donald McCaig kann nicht schreiben und anscheinend auch nicht lesen, man k\u00f6nnte meinen, er h\u00e4tte seine Phantasie \u00fcber Rhett Buttler und seine Angeh\u00f6rigen nach einem Durchgang mit dem dreist\u00fcndigen Film diktiert, statt 12 Jahre daran zu schreiben, wie es der Klappentext behauptet. Wenn \u00fcberhaupt handelt es sich bei diesem Werk um geballte Hirnf\u00fcrze aus 12 Jahren, bei denen gelegentlich nicht mal sicher ist, ob Vom Winde verweht und das Personal des Klassikers \u00fcberhaupt die Verursacher der wahllos ausgebreiteten Erz\u00e4hlf\u00e4den sind oder der Name nur nachtr\u00e4glich eingef\u00fcgt wurde, um diesen M\u00fcll, der allenfalls als Anh\u00e4ngsel zu einem Klassiker verwertbar ist, ein breites Lesepublikum zu verpassen. ...more I gave a similar review to \"Scarlett\" the sequel by Alexandra Ripley. I read this book because I (like most GWTW fans) will always thirst for more of this story even as I know that I'll never really get it. Only Mitchell can write this story, and any other attempt will always fall short. The Rhett in this book is not the calculating, capitalizing scoundrel of Mitchell's story. McCaig's Rhett is written as a misunderstood hero. This is a different man than the one I've come to understand through I gave a similar review to \"Scarlett\" the sequel by Alexandra Ripley. I read this book because I (like most GWTW fans) will always thirst for more of this story even as I know that I'll never really get it. Only Mitchell can write this story, and any other attempt will always fall short. The Rhett in this book is not the calculating, capitalizing scoundrel of Mitchell's story. McCaig's Rhett is written as a misunderstood hero. This is a different man than the one I've come to understand through Mitchell's writing, and I don't like him nearly as much. I'd rather believe that Rhett was really truly a rake at heart and only one woman (who was a kindred spirit) could capture his heart - versus believing McCaig's version that makes Rhett seem like he was never really a rake to begin with. One thing I found interesting was that the ending to this book completely discounts the entire \"Scarlett\" sequel. In other words, the way this book ends the story between Rhett and Scarlett would make it impossible for the sequel to have occurred at all. How much more clear could it be that we all have our unique versions of how their story ended? To me this is one writer's opinion of what may have happened behind the scenes, but it will never be part of the real story. It is a stand alone book, just like \"Scarlett\" was. Regardless, I still enjoyed reading it because it fed my addiction to a story that will never have an ending. For that, it was still worth reading for me. I will most likely read anything related to the GWTW story that I can get my hands on - even knowing that it will never quite measure up. ...more This book doesn't so much retell Gone with the Wind from Rhett's view (like I originally thought) as it does give the account of Rhett's life prior to meeting Scarlett and describes the lives of his friends and family. In doing so, it gives a well-researched look into life in Charleston Atlanta just prior to and during the cival war. I enjoyed it mostly for the historical aspects--it gave a different view of the cival war period than GWTW did. McCaig is great in describing individual battles, re This book doesn't so much retell Gone with the Wind from Rhett's view (like I originally thought) as it does give the account of Rhett's life prior to meeting Scarlett and describes the lives of his friends and family. In doing so, it gives a well-researched look into life in Charleston Atlanta just prior to and during the cival war. I enjoyed it mostly for the historical aspects--it gave a different view of the cival war period than GWTW did. McCaig is great in describing individual battles, relations between blacks and whites, and the destruction of Southern cities by the \"Federals,\" but in my opinion, wasn't so hot at the dialogue--mainly dialogue between men and women. It seemed either forced or cheesy to me. I gave it 4 stars because I enjoyed it more than 3 stars worth, but if given the choice, I'd probably make it 3.5 stars. Worth reading for the history lessons though. ...more My favorite book of all time is GWTW. As a result, I was hesitant to read this book. I was sadly disappointed in the other book, Scarlett, that was approved by M. Mitchell's family. But, this book was wonderful. The writing style was very similar to MM's and the historic aspects were wonderfully done. Many have said that Rhett Butler's biggest asset was the mystery surrounding him. For me, this book only added to his appeal. I was unhappy with some of the liberties taken with a few of the detail My favorite book of all time is GWTW. As a result, I was hesitant to read this book. I was sadly disappointed in the other book, Scarlett, that was approved by M. Mitchell's family. But, this book was wonderful. The writing style was very similar to MM's and the historic aspects were wonderfully done. Many have said that Rhett Butler's biggest asset was the mystery surrounding him. For me, this book only added to his appeal. I was unhappy with some of the liberties taken with a few of the details, but all-in-all I thought the plot and characters were well done. There could be some problems for readers who have not read GWTW, but I think it would still be an enjoyable read for them. I do hope, however, that this is the last prequel/sequel that is published. There will never be another GWTW! ...more I should start by saying that am a raving fan of Gone With the Wind. I loved Rhett Butlers People for a lot of the same reasons that I like GWTW; it is very well written, has an epic story with graceful flow, history and depth, and it is a continuation of characters that are extremely well developed. One if my favorite additions were the exploration of Belle Watling and the nature of her relationship with Rhett; something GWTW leaves mysterious. I will say that the author wrote a very masculine I should start by saying that am a raving fan of Gone With the Wind. I loved Rhett Butlers People for a lot of the same reasons that I like GWTW; it is very well written, has an epic story with graceful flow, history and depth, and it is a continuation of characters that are extremely well developed. One if my favorite additions were the exploration of Belle Watling and the nature of her relationship with Rhett; something GWTW leaves mysterious. I will say that the author wrote a very masculine book as compared to the feminine outlook in GWTW--but I think that was the point...and I liked it! ...more<---C>Donald McCaig</---C>", "Title": "Rhett Butler's People"},
