{"Comments": "It's official...I love Ever and Damen just as much I love Bella and Edward.<---F> Seriously, folks</---F>...give the Immortals series a chance. You will not be disappointed. ***UPDATE*** I have since tried to read another installment, and have found there is really no comparison to Bella and Edward. I love B & E far too much and no other characters from other series can hold a candle. It's Official, I hate Ever. The story is just\u2026 lame, I found Ever more annoying than ever . She's an inconsistent character,<---M> doing one irrational thing after the other</---M>, and yeah, sometimes characters do that, but Ever's actions were contradictory. Like, when she finally thinks its okay to go all the way with Damen after a million lifetimes. Seriously?? The girl doesn\u2019t have enough of a brain to make the right decisions and not to trust the most obvious bad guy in the world, but she\u2019s smart enough It's Official, I hate Ever. The story is just\u2026 lame, I found Ever more annoying than ever . She's an inconsistent character, doing one irrational thing after the other, and yeah, sometimes characters do that, but Ever's actions were contradictory. Like, when she finally thinks its okay to go all the way with Damen after a million lifetimes. Seriously?? The girl doesn\u2019t have enough of a brain to make the right decisions and not to trust the most obvious bad guy in the world, but she\u2019s smart enough not to go all the way? After hours of make-out sessions, where hormones call at you desperately, let me ask again. SERIOUSLY????? And the ending, Oh. My. God. Kill me. How could she trust the bad guy, after he confessed all the bad things he has done? No matter how desperate you are for help. If a freaking ghost [or whatever the hell that thing was] tells you to stop, you STOP. I found this thing Irrational, and it simply drove me insane. In case you're wondering, Yes I bought the third book... ...more Ever one-ups herself in this one, proving to be the dumbest fictional character of all time. How anyone can read this and walk away happy is beyond me. Seriously, the girl is dumb, the plot limp, the characters even more haphazard than they were the first time around. It's the literary equivalent of smacking your head into a brick wall over and over again. Although, I think that would ultimately be more enjoyable and less damaging. I can't even count how many times I was trying to mentally will Ever one-ups herself in this one, proving to be the dumbest fictional character of all time. How anyone can read this and walk away happy is beyond me. Seriously, the girl is dumb, the plot limp, the characters even more haphazard than they were the first time around. It's the literary equivalent of smacking your head into a brick wall over and over again. Although, I think that would ultimately be more enjoyable and less damaging. I can't even count how many times I was trying to mentally will the characters into being interesting and smart, but they never failed to disappoint. This is one of the worst books I've ever read....and I've read all four installments of the Twilight Saga. Stephenie Meyer really likes it when her characters shudder....do you know what <---A>Alyson Noel</---A> likes her characters to do? Shrug. A LOT. Even when they're not \"shrugging\", they're \"lifting their shoulders\". Someone please buy Alyson Noel a dictionary, a thesaurus, and perhaps a book on human body language. She would benefit. ...more I hated this book, but I can't separate my frustration over Ever's stupid decision making from my annoyance with the book, so I don't know if I hated it because of what happened in it or because it just sucks. I kind of think I hated it because of the book's outcome, which then leads me to admit that maybe I sort of liked it and let it get to me so much that the end angered me and led me to believe that I hated it. Are you confused yet? I am. So, in a nutshell, the whole book is about the fact t I hated this book, but I can't separate my frustration over Ever's stupid decision making from my annoyance with the book, so I don't know if I hated it because of what happened in it or because it just sucks. I kind of think I hated it because of the book's outcome, which then leads me to admit that maybe I sort of liked it and let it get to me so much that the end angered me and led me to believe that I hated it. Are you confused yet? I am. So, in a nutshell, the whole book is about the fact that despite falling in love with each other over and over for hundreds of years, Ever and Damen have never had a chance to erm, consummate their love because Ever has always been murdered before that could happen. Finally, it seems no obstacles stand in their way. ALAS, 'tis not to be. Damen is stricken with some sort of sickness and Ever must work out what has happened in time to save him. She does save him despite her extreme stupidity. She trusts the villain of the book instead of two girls who befriended her sister before she \"crossed over\" and therein lies my extreme frustration. Who would do that?? Hmm, let me think: trust two girls my sweet, dead 12 year old sister trusted or trust the evil immortal who has poisoned the man I am destined to be with forever? That does not seem like a hard decision to me. After Ever distrusted Roman (<---B>the evil immortal</---B>) from first laying eyes on him, WHY would she suddenly put her and Damen lives in his hands? I maintain, she wouldn't, and that fact that she did MADE ME SO AGGRAVATED. For being so stupid, she deserves never to be able to touch him again. Click here for my review on the next book in the series: Shadowland ...more I didn't think anything could possibly be worse than Evermore. And my goodness, was I wrong in thinking that. DNF, BECAUSE I'D PREFER TO HAVE SOME OF MY SANITY INTACT. I've said it once, and I'll say it again: Ever is so stupid. Like, not just academic stupid, horror movie stupid. She's the fool who'll walk up the stairs toward the axe murderer while the front door lies wide open and the keys are waiting in the car's ignition. Sound familiar? It's funny how addictive these books are. I wanted to stop reading, but I couldn't bear to put the damn book down. I bought this one as a holiday read, and blazed through it in less than a day. <+++>Blue Moon</+++> was incredible. If you thought Evermore was full of suspense and unknowns, just wait until you read <+++>Blue Moon</+++>. Noel surpassed all expectations I had for the sequel, if this is a preview to how the rest of the series will be, we all in for a huge treat. The plot was insane, and I mean that in a good way. Noel took this novel in a direction I was never expecting, resulting in an emotional roller coaster ride that I never wanted to end. It was so cleverly pieced, so intricately meshed, I n Blue Moon was incredible. If you thought Evermore was full of suspense and unknowns, just wait until you read Blue Moon. Noel surpassed all expectations I had for the sequel, if this is a preview to how the rest of the series will be, we all in for a huge treat. The plot was insane, and I mean that in a good way. Noel took this novel in a direction I was never expecting, resulting in an emotional roller coaster ride that I never wanted to end. It was so cleverly pieced, so intricately meshed, I never saw it coming. Fabulous. Pieces of Damen\u2019s history are revealed as well as some glimpses in to Ever\u2019s previous lives. I have to admit that was one of my favorite aspects of the story. Damen\u2019s character was displayed on a whole new level in this novel, if you didn\u2019t feel a connection with him in Evermore, you\u2019ll be sure to in Blue Moon. Not to mention the new incredibly enticing characters introduced; Roman, Romy and Rayne. Evermore was good, but Blue Moon is phenomenal. If you\u2019re looking for a new fantasy series that\u2019s worth reading, be sure to check out the Immortals series. ...more I should not have read this book. It was not good for my brain. And I knew this when I checked this book out from the library. Because the first one was possibly one of the worst things I'd ever read. So, honestly, did I expect the second one to be worth reading? But I was curious. I really wanted to know what could possibly be in the sequel to Evermore. So, well, here we are. I won't rant about the problems it shares with its predecessor; I expected those, in all of their copious glory. (Though I I should not have read this book. It was not good for my brain. And I knew this when I checked this book out from the library. Because the first one was possibly one of the worst things I'd ever read. So, honestly, did I expect the second one to be worth reading? But I was curious. I really wanted to know what could possibly be in the sequel to Evermore. So, well, here we are. I won't rant about the problems it shares with its predecessor; I expected those, in all of their copious glory. (Though I was a bit surprised to find that Buttercup is still, apparently, a hermaphrodite, having been called both a \"he\" and a \"she,\" once again on the same freaking page.) And, really, it didn't have any problems that the first book didn't. In fact, the protagonist (and thus the narration) is, I'm going to say, less annoying, less inconsistent, and less of a sloppy mess. So, that's a plus. She's still pretty insufferable, though. So is Damen, just like before, but - here's another plus - he gets much less screen time and dialogue in this book. Score! The plot is about as non-existant/full of holes/terrible as it was in the first book. However, Drina, our (inadvertently) comically inept villain (with a much too convoluted plan) from the first book has been replaced with Roman, our (inadvertently) comically inept villain (with a much to convoluted plan) from this book. But, hey, he didn't get killed with the power of love. Double score! Also, he, like, half managed to succeed. And by that, if I have interpreted the book correctly, I mean, \"totally succeeded.\" Maybe this would lead to a triple score, as I really don't like the protagonists of this series and would enjoy watching someone completely out-smart them, except that he took a whole freaking book to accomplish what I - even without omnipotent powers that \"immortal juice\" apparently gives you sometimes - could have accomplished in like, an hour, provided I already had the plot devices of alchemy stuff (which the protagonist pretty much got simply by asking some random lady) a syringe, and a large frying pan for beating both the protagonist and her love interest over the heads until unconscious. And you know, I could probably replace the syringe with a very sharp toothpick, and the frying pan with a sock, because I am sure both Ever and Damen have very soft and therefore sensitive skulls. So, this book is actually slightly better than the first one. But it's still pretty bad. When reading it, to keep yourself from falling asleep, I would recommend reading all of Roman's dialogue out loud in an amazingly fake British/Cockney accent. This can be disappointing as Roman isn't really in all that much of the book, but it certainly does pay off in the end, possibly giving me enough giggles to justify checking this book out from the library. ...more Well, this is disappointing, so far. Damen is still a huge ass (600+ years old and he can't have a little patience with a 16-year-old? He can't be a little more sensitive and a little less horny? He can't stop being a brooding, mysterious, non-past-revealing teenager after six hundred years? Really?) and now Ever has become clingy while being obsessed over not having sex though she thinks she wants to but she's not ready but she should be because she has always died a virgin so she needs to hurr Well, this is disappointing, so far. Damen is still a huge ass (600+ years old and he can't have a little patience with a 16-year-old? He can't be a little more sensitive and a little less horny? He can't stop being a brooding, mysterious, non-past-revealing teenager after six hundred years? Really?) and now Ever has become clingy while being obsessed over not having sex though she thinks she wants to but she's not ready but she should be because she has always died a virgin so she needs to hurry up and get it on but she has all of eternity so what's the rush but he really wants to because he's never been able to have sex with her and she should really just give him that and I AM GOING TO SLAP HER. I'm hoping things pick up and they stop being so incredibly irritating because, if that doesn't happen, I won't make it through the second CD. I listened to the whole thing and I will not be continuing this series. I'm still going to give Riley's story a try, but Ever and her I-really-need-to-have-sex-though-I-just-never-manage-it-and-OH-NO!-NOW-I-CAN'T!-oh-and-I-have-forgotten-how-to-use-reason drama can just go on without me. ...more MORE? MORE! @ P.S. I love that book! THE WORLD: So pretty much the same as in the first book. We have our world and then in addition we have these supernatural immortals. Oh and yes we also have Summerland which is basically a place between life and death and where everything you want you can have. CHARACTERS: So main character is named Ever which just for the record I really like. In the first book I really loved Ever but now she became a little bit annoying. Basically, in the second book Ever be MORE? MORE! @ P.S. I love that book! THE WORLD: So pretty much the same as in the first book. We have our world and then in addition we have these supernatural immortals. Oh and yes we also have Summerland which is basically a place between life and death and where everything you want you can have. CHARACTERS: So main character is named Ever which just for the record I really like. In the first book I really loved Ever but now she became a little bit annoying. Basically, in the second book Ever becomes a very stereotypical teenager which I of course cannot tolerate. But don't worry, it did not get to the point where I could not stand her at all anymore. I have problems with her character but all can be remedied in the future, hopefully. Now you ask me why I find Ever so annoying suddenly? The thing is another evil guy from the past comes and wants to destroy Damen this time. Therefore, Damen starts loosing his memory and basically everybody around Ever too. So she has to make this magic portion to put everything back together before it is too late. And therefore, she starts creaking out and just acting purely stupid at some points. I liked Ever way more when she was rational. But oh well. Okay so obviously the love interest in this book is Damen. Well, did not like him in the first book and that has not changed. Only good thing was that with him losing who he was basically Damen was not much present in the book. Whoop whoop! That is about it. There is also a an evil guy but just like with evil girl in book one they are not really characters but more of the probes. Oh and no more Ever and Riley talking, that I missed greatly. LOVE: It was kinda refreshing having Damen not know Ever. It is like taking a break and I really enjoyed it. But frankly, I really don't care about Ever and Damen relationship. All I care about in this book is Ever herself. PLUS: It had this concept of Summerland which I found rather enjoyable. And well obviously magic. MINUS: It kinda felt like the first book was rewritten with an evil figure concentrating on Damen rather than Ever this time. OVERALL: I think this book had a famous second book syndrome. Therefore, third book of I come. MORE? MORE! @ P.S. I love that book! ...more I tried. I really did. Never again. NEVER. FUCKING. AGAIN. The beginning was amazing! From the beginning it grabbed my attention. Although, towards the middle of the book its appeal left, and the plot became knotty. However, the plot was like a roller coaster ride. One moment you think you know what will happen next, then something thrilling happens. This made me melt and keep reading. Alyson Noel wrote this book very entertaining, interesting, and engaging. When you read this book you can tell that she knows what she's doing. She has the plot all figure The beginning was amazing! From the beginning it grabbed my attention. Although, towards the middle of the book its appeal left, and the plot became knotty. However, the plot was like a roller coaster ride. One moment you think you know what will happen next, then something thrilling happens. This made me melt and keep reading. Alyson Noel wrote this book very entertaining, interesting, and engaging. When you read this book you can tell that she knows what she's doing. She has the plot all figured out. And, even added surprises that make you demand more. I would have to have seen more of Damen, because he is one of the protagonist. This did leave me with many questions, but I'm pretty sure that lots of these questions will be answered in the next book. Definitely, this book was more exciting than the first book. Hopefully, the next book will be as impressive as this one. Reposeted from by book blog: http://thebookshopaholic.blogspot.com/ ...more Blue Moon is one of those books that I can't just enjoy the \"journey\" of reading the whole story but I just want to get to the end to see what happens. It was frustrating and I wanted to skip over the middle. To be honest I could have and not missed out on much. I'm not sure why I continue to put myself through the torture of reading these books. I have many complaints about this story. First, Damen seems like the typical guy who just wants to get into the girl's pants. All the while he continue Blue Moon is one of those books that I can't just enjoy the \"journey\" of reading the whole story but I just want to get to the end to see what happens. It was frustrating and I wanted to skip over the middle. To be honest I could have and not missed out on much. I'm not sure why I continue to put myself through the torture of reading these books. I have many complaints about this story. First, Damen seems like the typical guy who just wants to get into the girl's pants. All the while he continues to say, \"I don't want to pressure you...blah, blah, blah.\" She obviously isn't ready to have sex because she backs off at the last moment every time. But yet she is made to feel guilty because she has \"known\" him for 400 years (though she has no recollection of this); a guilt that I can't help believe that he's responsible for. For example when he gave her a look of doubt when she told him \"I just need more time\" and she had to explain herself that she doesn't remember the last 400 years. It reminded me of that the typical guy who says, \"But I love you. Don't you love me\". I found it despicable that his next move after this conversation was to get a hotel room!!! He then got upset with her that she wasn't immediately excited. Was I the only one thinking, \"What the hell? What a jerk!\"? This is one male protagonist that I can honestly say I find to be unappealing. He is not the chivalrous, \"Renaissance\" man that Noel tries to depict. I had a hard time believing in their \"love\" for each other. I realize that they have 400 years of history, but honestly Ever doesn't remember ANY of it except for the last few months (or is it weeks-however it's been since they finally reunited). Yea, yea I know she felt something was familiar with him but still Noel fails to make me believe or see the deep-rooted love they supposedly have for each other. My second issue is the lack of developed characters. When reading Blue Moon, it seems that Ever is the only character, the rest just making cameo appearances, and the result is a very hollow, shallow book. I don't feel invested into the characters and thus I don't care what happens to them. I don't feel anything for the other characters except annoyance and I just wish that they would get killed off (especially Haven). Another issue I take with Blue Moon, well actually the whole series in general, is the lack of realistic situations. Sabine's reactions to Ever's odd and \"destructive\" behavior are unbelievable. There's something obviously going on with Ever but Sabine never seems to delve in any deeper than the surface of things. How about the issue that Roman is out for revenge and is so devasted that Drina was murdered BUT is still willing to hook up with Ever? I didn't understand why this man that was so compelled for revenge that he went through an elobarate plan to repay Drina's killer that he gives her a proposition at the end that he's a forgiving guy and if she ever needs some \"company\" to look him up? What the hell was that all about? Despite all of these issues and what I deem to be obvious holes and flaws in the storyline, Noel somehow still creates enough fascination for me to continue to read this series. I still want to know what will happen and how things will work out for Ever and Damen. The problems just seem to get bigger and bigger and less reversable. The plot is undeniably amazing and I just hope that she developes these characters more in the sequels to come. I also hope that the next three books aren't centralized on their desire and inability to have sex. ...more I usually try to give a series a chance so even though I didn't have the greatest opinion of Evermore I read Blue Moon in the hopes that, maybe, the series just had a slow, simple start and would come into its own as the books went on. Nope. Blue Moon was disappointing at its best moments and absurd at its worst. Every mysterious aspect of the story did nothing to capture my imagination or interest - including the new mysterious guy who was responsible for Damen's new mysterious condition. Ever di I usually try to give a series a chance so even though I didn't have the greatest opinion of Evermore I read Blue Moon in the hopes that, maybe, the series just had a slow, simple start and would come into its own as the books went on. Nope. Blue Moon was disappointing at its best moments and absurd at its worst. Every mysterious aspect of the story did nothing to capture my imagination or interest - including the new mysterious guy who was responsible for Damen's new mysterious condition. Ever did what she does best - run around in circles while the readers wish she would do something to validate all the time they spent reading. The Immortals Series feels like it's trying very hard to be Twilight but it's just not bottling any of the lightning that made that series so memorable or such a success with certain readers. Ever is indecisive and without depth, the only interesting thing about Damen is he's immortal and attractive, and all the high school characters are unkind stereotypes, headcases and sociopaths. The author throws in a ton of New Age tidbits but does nothing to create a firm mythos to her story to make it feel unique or let her readers feel absorbed in the world she's creating. It seems like a lot of potentially good ideas and good characters going to waste. At least Noel stopped with all the product placement and brand names listed on every page. (view spoiler) [ One thing that really irks me - how can there be \"rogue immortals\" if there's no definitive immortal society or ideology they're supposed to adhere to? To go \"rogue\" one must break away from a system or act in defiance of it - these immortals have no such thing since they all drift around, doing their own thing. Since only 4 have been introduced in the series so far these immortals aren't \"going rogue\", they're just jerks. Also, can I say how anti-climatic and just plain silly it is that Ever would choose to believe Roman - a person she has loathed and distrusted since the second he was introduced - over a pair of helpful spirits sent by her younger sister, Riley, to watch after her? I understand Noel needed some avenue to get to her third book and whatever happens next but she couldn't think of a way that was plausible or made her heroine seem like such a dope? That kind of laziness in story-telling doesn't encourage me to read on because I'll likely just get cheated out of any satisfying resolution again and again. (hide spoiler) ] I won't tell anyone else how to spend their money or time but I'm finished with the immortals series and wouldn't recommend it to anybody. ...more So I've just recently finished listening to the audiobook of Blue Moon the sequel to the infamous Evermore by Alison Noel. Now if any of you are wondering about how much I enjoyed Evermore well, until The Host it was the worst book I'd ever read. That begs the question of how did the sequel fair... Blue Moon opens with Damon helping Ever practice with her manifestation, which is the ability to create shit out of thin air. They start making out and getting hot and heavy, but Ever isn't ready. That So I've just recently finished listening to the audiobook of Blue Moon the sequel to the infamous Evermore by Alison Noel. Now if any of you are wondering about how much I enjoyed Evermore well, until The Host it was the worst book I'd ever read. That begs the question of how did the sequel fair... Blue Moon opens with Damon helping Ever practice with her manifestation, which is the ability to create shit out of thin air. They start making out and getting hot and heavy, but Ever isn't ready. That's okay with Damon because he's a gentleman. The first half of the book is mostly made out of telling us how much Damon loves Ever, Ever dealing with her insecurities about Damon's 400 years of sexual conquest and her preparing to do the do. In the middle of her melodrama there is a new kid at school name Roman who she immediately detects to be the bad guy. Roman manages to smooth talk everyone, including Damon, but not our feisty little Ever. She can tell something is wrong with him. More in between sections until the \"meat\" of the story finally comes in. After being jilted by Damon over the weekend, Ever comes into school the next day and during lunch sees the entire school sitting together. Preps and Emo/Goths (because its all the same to Ever) and Jocks and Gays; all together somehow because of Roman's doing. It is from this that we get the most entertaining quote from the book: \"The lions are now lunching with lambs\" I almost peed from laughter. The only thing more annoying than this is the term \"immortal juice\" which just sounds nasty no matter how you swing it. I'm not going to rag about the plot, because honestly the plot could work if it was written better-in fact it has been written better, my real problem is the character of Ever. She is so incompetent that it is frightening. I do understand that a lead as to be somewhat incompetent otherwise our story wouldn't get anywhere. However, Ever is painfully dense throughout the book she doesn't do a single thing right, not even in minor situations. To top it all off in the final decision of the book she proves that she needs to be lobotomized. During her final confrontation with the cause of all her problems, Roman, who is a \"rogue\" Immortal (which doesn't make sense because the Immortals are not an organization) that has been poisoning Damon whilst turning him into a Jerk-Ass, he offers to give her the antidote to save him. There is another character there who urges Ever nor to, saying he can not be trusted. Her choice will infuriate you. ...more This is the sequel to Evermore which I loved so much I gave it one star. This sequel picks up where the last left off and tells the continuing saga of the newly immortal Ever and her immortal soul mate Damen as they struggle with teenage inanities and an evil nemesis. I listened to this on audio and over two hours go by without anything of interest happening. There is plenty of bitchery and immaturity to go around, however, as we listen in on Ever and her small circle of self-involved friends as This is the sequel to Evermore which I loved so much I gave it one star. This sequel picks up where the last left off and tells the continuing saga of the newly immortal Ever and her immortal soul mate Damen as they struggle with teenage inanities and an evil nemesis. I listened to this on audio and over two hours go by without anything of interest happening. There is plenty of bitchery and immaturity to go around, however, as we listen in on Ever and her small circle of self-involved friends as they natter on (and on) about inconsequential things. Eventually the book picks up when we, the reader, are invited on a shopping spree to Victoria\u2019s Secret with Ever to watch her pick out the perfect pair of matching underthings that she\u2019s going to wear as Damen finally deflowers her (oh but will he?!). I\u2019m just kidding about the book picking up here but not about the VS trip unfortunately. Most of the book is a snore fest but I had nothing better to do as I folded laundry, made dinner and then cleaned the kitty boxes. The narrator does a fine job of bringing these characters to life and I could clearly discern one from another. The problem lies in the fact that I didn\u2019t like any of the characters and that Ever grates on my last nerve. She is shallow, insecure, annoying, unkind in her thoughts toward others (Ava especially), a wee bit pathetic and very ugly on the inside. It\u2019s only towards the end of the story that I actually started to warm up to her and then she goes and does something so idiotic I\u2019m back at square one again. Sigh. But it allow the big question of \u201cWill they ever really do it?\u201d to be strung out for several more books. If my teen daughter smuggles this series into the house to read I am going to lecture her on never, ever acting like an Ever. ...more I nice bridge book in a series, IMO. Alyson Noel is doing the age old \"boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back...\" thing. But, she does it well and I'm definitely interested in her storyline. It's not my fave book, but I like it! *SPOILER ALERT** I do believe that the next book will right the wrongs and get our characters back where they belong-in eachothers arms! :-) And I'm looking forward to whatever struggle she is inventing between our good and evil characters. Things that bugged m I nice bridge book in a series, IMO. Alyson Noel is doing the age old \"boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back...\" thing. But, she does it well and I'm definitely interested in her storyline. It's not my fave book, but I like it! *SPOILER ALERT** I do believe that the next book will right the wrongs and get our characters back where they belong-in eachothers arms! :-) And I'm looking forward to whatever struggle she is inventing between our good and evil characters. Things that bugged me -I KNEW something wasn't right with Ava (what was she thinking leaving immortal juice with her anyway!). -What was her rush to get back to her old life?? Could she not wait to make sure the love of her life was ok b4 hurtling back to Summerland and back to he rold life? Crazy! -What is the deal with her believing what Roman says over the creepy twin?! She hates him the whole book doesn't trust him for a second and all of a sudden she believes him over someone who she has no reason to disbelieve! -And finally, why didn't Damen recognize Roman? Huh... So, overall- an ok read, but she needs make sure her characters are doing the things that they would actually do, not just having things happen because it advances her plot with no regard to whether it makes sense or not. ...more The writing is simple and very well paced. I had a hard time putting this book down. I did have a little gripe with this book, What happened to Ever? I was a big fan of hers until now. Not to give anything away but the ending came out of nowhere. Ever starts out not trusting Roman, even though everyone has fallen for him. She has strong feelings of distrust for him and follows her gut by keeping her distance. She is outwardly rude to him through out the entire story. Then comes the end ... she do The writing is simple and very well paced. I had a hard time putting this book down. I did have a little gripe with this book, What happened to Ever? I was a big fan of hers until now. Not to give anything away but the ending came out of nowhere. Ever starts out not trusting Roman, even though everyone has fallen for him. She has strong feelings of distrust for him and follows her gut by keeping her distance. She is outwardly rude to him through out the entire story. Then comes the end ... she does a 180 and trusts him whole heartedly. Out of nowhere? I've got no problems with cliff hangers, but it was so out of character for Ever to trust Roman that I had a hard time believing it. I really really disliked the ending. Would I recommend it? Yes! But you'll need to read Evermore (1st in the Immortal series) before starting Blue Moon. ...more I liked the 1st book Evermore...though it may seem like a knock-off of the Twilight sagas, still the author manage to introduce new ideas and concepts like, auras, \"elixir of life (from theories of alchemy), sacras, etc. That's the reason why I decided to read the 2nd one Blue Moon. However, I was disappointed... the character of Ever was portrayed a little stupid. What happened?!? I guess I'm just not used for the female protagonist to be written this way, all wrong and bad things that had happe I liked the 1st book Evermore...though it may seem like a knock-off of the Twilight sagas, still the author manage to introduce new ideas and concepts like, auras, \"elixir of life (from theories of alchemy), sacras, etc. That's the reason why I decided to read the 2nd one Blue Moon. However, I was disappointed... the character of Ever was portrayed a little stupid. What happened?!? I guess I'm just not used for the female protagonist to be written this way, all wrong and bad things that had happened was due to her impatience, recklessness and not using her head. Writing-wise, literary use of words were just ok, not spectacular and impressive. Atleast, the 3rd book Shadowlands have redeemed it A LITTLE, but there's still a lot of improvement to be hoped upon. ...more How this series continues to amaze me. I don't know how, and I don't know why. It has never happened before. Never have I believed that every book of a 6 book series would be 2 trios of stunningly beautiful books. Well, I believe so now. Alyson Noel is amazing. Her writing though... wow. Alyson Noel has topped my top author chart. I just love her writing, somehow it gets to me a lot. I totally understand Ever, and I feel her frustration just through Alyson Noel's writing. What's my recommendatio How this series continues to amaze me. I don't know how, and I don't know why. It has never happened before. Never have I believed that every book of a 6 book series would be 2 trios of stunningly beautiful books. Well, I believe so now. Alyson Noel is amazing. Her writing though... wow. Alyson Noel has topped my top author chart. I just love her writing, somehow it gets to me a lot. I totally understand Ever, and I feel her frustration just through Alyson Noel's writing. What's my recommendation? Read the immortals series. It's most definitely worth it. After that? Come back here and obsess with me over it. Believe me, I think they're that good. ...more I rate this somewhere between a 2 and a 3. This review comes with a few spoilers for Evermore , and I have to talk a wee bit about the ending of Blue Moon because it really disgruntled me. <---C>Ever Bloom</---C> is trying to learn the tricks of being an Immortal: manifesting things, parting the veil to the portal to Summerland, and so on; but the sheer handsomeness and appeal of her boyfriend and fellow immortal, Damen Auguste, is proving highly distracting. Yet even though they have loved each other throughout several of her incarnations across four h This review comes with a few spoilers for Evermore , and I have to talk a wee bit about the ending of Blue Moon because it really disgruntled me. Ever Bloom is trying to learn the tricks of being an Immortal: manifesting things, parting the veil to the portal to Summerland, and so on; but the sheer handsomeness and appeal of her boyfriend and fellow immortal, Damen Auguste, is proving highly distracting. Yet even though they have loved each other throughout several of her incarnations across four hundred years, they have never managed to consummate their love before Drina, Damen's ex-wife, would kill Ever. In this reincarnation, though, Ever killed Drina first - so what's stopping her from taking the plunge, finally, after four hundred years of waiting? Not that she remembers it, but to say that Damen has been looking forward to it for the last four centuries would be a bit of an understatement. Part of it is her anxiety, her insecurity, over Damen's past - especially his past experiences with women, whereas Ever always died a virgin. She hesitates, but finally agrees to go to a hotel one night with him, to move forward into their shared future and stop agonising over the past. The arrival of a new student at school called Roman, though, has her instincts screaming. Everyone else loves him, is charmed by his abundance of charm, but Ever distrusts him from the moment she first sees him. She doesn't stress too much over it though: a much bigger worry is that Damen seems to be losing his powers, his ability to manifest and to enter Summerland. When the night of their planned hotel stay arrives, Ever is stunned when Damen suddenly abandons her - and even more stunned when she sees him next, finding him to be vain, changed, mortal , with no memory or thought of her beyond the belief that she's an obsessed stalker. She can even read his thoughts and see his aura now. Determined to save him, convinced it has something to do with Roman, Ever will do whatever it takes to bring back Damen - though never did she expect to be given a chance to sacrifice everything to right an old wrong. This series easily fits that publishing fad, you know the one, where when one series does exceedingly well, they eagerly put out a hundred other books just like it. Following on the success of the Harry Potter books came a slew of magician stories. Following Twilight (even though it wasn't the first YA series about vampires), we get a similar craze. I could point out the similarities - everything from the title to the love of her life turning his back on her - but there'd really be no point. I quite enjoyed the first book, which had a few new elements to make it enticing, and this one certainly had plenty of tension as Ever races against time to cure Damen before he withers and dies - and his treatment of her when he changes is so cruel - but ultimately it's a lacklustre book. The first, oh, 70 pages involve Ever mustering her courage up to have sex. The rest of the book makes sure she never has any. This old ploy was tiring when you first came across it, whether in book or tv show or movie - and it only gets cheaper and more contemptible each time afterwards. Ever didn't feel particularly frustrated but I certainly did. I think I may have even rolled my eyes more than once. The novel's dose of anticipation revolves around saving Damen, later - there's no way that Ever could possibly lose her virginity that easily, so you never take it seriously and it's obvious something's going to ruin their plans - and the climax was gripping in the sense that I really had no idea how the author was going to resolve the various problems. But the REAL climax, the ultimate ending to the story, was such a sham I was disgusted. Dark Angel season 2 is a big, unashamed hint. Ugh. Ever herself was a walking plot device for the most part, intuitive when she needed to be, dumber than a post when that was also required. Her indecisiveness was irritating, and I too began to wonder what Damen saw in her. Here's the interesting thing: you never get to really know Damen, which is telling since the story is narrated by Ever (in present tense, and I've no idea why since it adds nothing), giving me the sense that she doesn't know him terribly well either. Or, more than that, that she is so caught up in her own thoughts and feelings that she doesn't spend much time learning his, getting to know him, understand him, trust him - all things you need in a real relationship, which is partly why theirs just doesn't feel real enough. He still reads like a 35-year-old, as he did in the first book, which makes his relationship with a sixteen year old pretty creepy (though his \"age\" is seventeen - really he's over six hundred years old: still creepy). I know I spend most of my time on the negatives, so to give some balance I'll add that there was some excitement and tension; the ending was - at the time of reading - unpredictable (though in hindsight I could have figured it out, since it was pretty ordinary); and it gets an extra star for the emotional cruelty and creepy Roman guy with the phony British accent. Though No\u00ebl is the second American author I've come across this month who doesn't know how to spell \"bollocks\" (i.e., not \"bullocks\"!). ...more There is so much going on in this book that I don't want to say in the summary because I don't want to ruin it for you. All I can say is read this book! I really enjoy sequels, but they also make me nervous, especially when I loved the first book as much as I did Evermore. But Alyson Noel surpassed all my expectations, and not only is Blue Moon an amazing sequel - it sets the bar for the rest of this series very, very high! Even if you didn't love Evermore, I really suggest you pick this one up. There is so much going on in this book that I don't want to say in the summary because I don't want to ruin it for you. All I can say is read this book! I really enjoy sequels, but they also make me nervous, especially when I loved the first book as much as I did Evermore. But Alyson Noel surpassed all my expectations, and not only is Blue Moon an amazing sequel - it sets the bar for the rest of this series very, very high! Even if you didn't love Evermore, I really suggest you pick this one up. I think that Blue Moon is better than Evermore - which is saying A LOT since I loved the first one. When I reached the last page of this one, all I could say was \u201cwow!\u201d This is one series that I can't get enough of. (I don't know if I can wait until February to read book #3!) There were numerous twists that kept me guessing. Just when I thought I had things figured out, I would get pulled in a new direction, which kept the book fast-paced and full of suspense - I had to keep turning the pages. There is a lot more focus on Ever and her growing powers and we also get to find more about Damen's past, which I enjoyed. I really liked the addition of Roman and the twins Romy and Rayne that Ever meets in Summerland. They added to the story but still have a lot of mystery surrounding them, so I\u2019m eager to see how the many stories that were weaved together in Blue Moon will play out. Another highly recommended book from Alyson Noel, I can\u2019t wait to read more about Ever and Damen. The Immortals series is one you\u2019ll want to get your hands on! You can read the first three chapters on Alyson's site here. (And yes, I know it starts out about Ever and Damen's love life and all that, but the book doesn't focus on that-you really need to read the whole thing-it gets amazing!) ...more Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.com Ever is now an immortal, and she's eager to learn everything - from manifesting objects to visiting the paradise Summerland. Things are looking up for Ever and Damen, who can finally be together. But just as Ever finds her power's growing, Damen's starts to fade. He's becoming weak and he's even starting to forget Ever. Ever travels to Summerland to save Damen, but while there she discovers she might be able to save her family. E Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.com Ever is now an immortal, and she's eager to learn everything - from manifesting objects to visiting the paradise Summerland. Things are looking up for Ever and Damen, who can finally be together. But just as Ever finds her power's growing, Damen's starts to fade. He's becoming weak and he's even starting to forget Ever. Ever travels to Summerland to save Damen, but while there she discovers she might be able to save her family. Ever must choose which path she'll take and who she'll end up saving. I really enjoy sequels, but they make me nervous, especially when I loved the first book as much as I did EVERMORE. But Alyson Noel surpassed all my expectations, and not only is BLUE MOON an amazing sequel - it sets the bar for the rest of this series very, very high! When I reached the last page of this one, all I could say was \"wow!\" There were numerous twists that kept me guessing. Just when I thought I had things figured out, I would get pulled in a new direction, which kept the book fast-paced and full of suspense - I had to keep turning the pages. I really liked the addition of Roman and the twins Romy and Rayne that Ever meets in Summerland. They added to the story but still have a lot of mystery surrounding them, so I'm eager to see how the many stories that were weaved together in BLUE MOON will play out. Another highly recommended book from Alyson Noel, I can't wait to read more about Ever and Damen. THE IMMORTALS series is one you'll want to get your hands on! ...more Ehhh I gave up after like 10 pages or so. I don't even know why I bothered. The first book was one of those books I read when I was in a good mood and was like \"la di daa this is okay I guess ...\" but once I thought about it I realized it was actually pretty bad. And once I started this one I was just like ... \"No\". These books are just ... I don't know. Obnoxious, I guess. Ever is a shallow character and the relationship between her and Damen is really boring. Not to mention Damen is such an Ed Ehhh I gave up after like 10 pages or so. I don't even know why I bothered. The first book was one of those books I read when I was in a good mood and was like \"la di daa this is okay I guess ...\" but once I thought about it I realized it was actually pretty bad. And once I started this one I was just like ... \"No\". These books are just ... I don't know. Obnoxious, I guess. Ever is a shallow character and the relationship between her and Damen is really boring. Not to mention Damen is such an Edward Cullen wannabe. *gag* Well. I'm going to go read something else now ... ...more So I picked up Evermore months ago out of curiosity with all the new paranormal 'romantic quick/light reads' out there, which it definitely turned out to be. Enjoyed the premise, fun to read and had me interested to find out what would happen with them, despite mimicking Twilight at times, run-on sentences rushing the story, and irritation with the characters constantly. twisting. each other. around (ie. Damen 'testing' Ever's love for him) and dropping the ball when it came to showing why they So I picked up Evermore months ago out of curiosity with all the new paranormal 'romantic quick/light reads' out there, which it definitely turned out to be. Enjoyed the premise, fun to read and had me interested to find out what would happen with them, despite mimicking Twilight at times, run-on sentences rushing the story, and irritation with the characters constantly. twisting. each other. around (ie. Damen 'testing' Ever's love for him) and dropping the ball when it came to showing why they acted the way they did at times, or just being decent people. Could take it or leave it, but read it if you just want a nice, light story about immortals and finding true love. Regardless, I saw Blue Moon on the shelf yesterday and thought \"Hm, I wonder what ended up happening to them? Forever together? Does Ever get stronger as a person? Does the writing 'flow' better? (because sad to say, while Noel is a good storyteller, the flow of the story (and editing!) really threw me off at times)\" Answer: No. I tore through the book in about six hours, getting more frustrated towards the end, but still dying to find out what happened to them, since the neat story DID have promise. But if any of the above bothered you about Evermore, I should warn you there's much more of the same in Blue Moon. By the end, we're _still_ taunted with their mixed relationship and a plot device just meant to get a sequel out of. The story still rushes through sentence to sentence (in one line, Damen and Ever are quickly moving to other sides of the room as her aunt gets home. Very next line, he's getting into his car. Wha?). Many, many times I was going \"What??\" at little jumps like that, and at Ever being so weak, or just plain _dense_ enough that I wanted to strangle her! Take the ending (those of you in the same boat, know what I mean... everyone else, SPOILER Warning): Ever is confronted by her true love dying in front of her, trying to be helped by a side character with an admittedly strange 'vibe', yet has been nothing but supportive, and even PROVES to Ever that they share a common bond. However, Evil Guy who has been ruining her life til now suddenly is all sorry and desperate to help Ever, and tells her 'you can't believe them, you have to do what I say RIGHT NOW or he dies!!'. Guess what? Ever has no choice but to pick Evil Guy over Strange Vibe. And he turns out to be.. dun dun... EVIL! And throws in a sketchy scientific plot device, completely ruining it for them until the next book! I'm not always asking for a happy ending, but a little realism and wish fulfillment, come on! Was pissed.... It felt like nothing was resolved, and everyone stays so one-dimensional, even Ava, who had the possibility of becoming more of a fuller character and friend for Ever, stays shallow before simply disappearing. Sheesh, sorry for the rant, just chiming in agreement to what others have said.... tell me again WHY I'm wondering about the third book, to see if things finally end up better?? ...more In all seriousness, this book was, without a doubt, the worst book I have read in my entire life. The plotline was flat, predictable and overly exaggerated. The characters were just downright annoying, self-centered, and vain beyond all belief, not to mention rude. The grammar and word-choice was horrendous, the author\u2019s vocabulary doesn\u2019t exist past the word \u201cprolix\u201d if even that far, and the attempts at a \u201ctouching moment\u201d are pitiful. I could have written this story when I was ten. And, with a In all seriousness, this book was, without a doubt, the worst book I have read in my entire life. The plotline was flat, predictable and overly exaggerated. The characters were just downright annoying, self-centered, and vain beyond all belief, not to mention rude. The grammar and word-choice was horrendous, the author\u2019s vocabulary doesn\u2019t exist past the word \u201cprolix\u201d if even that far, and the attempts at a \u201ctouching moment\u201d are pitiful. I could have written this story when I was ten. And, with all that I\u2019ve said, it makes me wonder: did the author intentionally write the book from the point-of-view of a twelve year old (no pun intended) or is that as far as her vocabulary stretches? I don\u2019t even think the Twilight saga had more rolling of the eyes than this book and that is truly saying something. And, dear lord, please spare me from another; \u201cI shrugged\u201d or \u201chel-lo\u201d! However, I will admit I read almost every book in the collection with hopes of a better tale. But, as you might have guessed, I stopped on the fourth chapter of Night Star and, more or less, threw my collection of the Immortals series into the corner of my room. They will be sold to my local \u201cHalf-Priced Book Store\u201d by tomorrow\u2019s end. If I could give it a 0/5 rating, I would. ...more Teenage immortal Ever struggles with her boyfriend's troubled past and fights to save him from a mysterious illness. When she is given the chance to save her family, returning to an old life, a life pre-psychic powers, she risks it all (Damen included) to turn back the clock. Poorly written, both in style and in plot, Blue Moon's teenage protagonists lack depth and personality. As a reader, I have a hard time believing the character's relationships or understanding the rationalization behind the Teenage immortal Ever struggles with her boyfriend's troubled past and fights to save him from a mysterious illness. When she is given the chance to save her family, returning to an old life, a life pre-psychic powers, she risks it all (Damen included) to turn back the clock. Poorly written, both in style and in plot, Blue Moon's teenage protagonists lack depth and personality. As a reader, I have a hard time believing the character's relationships or understanding the rationalization behind their decisions. Story lines read like a sequence of disjointed ideas and descriptions of Summerland are fantastic to the point of unbelief. Take the temples of knowledge for example, where the outer facades are constantly changing to mimic architecture from the Parthenon, the Taj Mahal and other famous landmarks. A lot of what I read lacks flow and comes off like first-draft quality brainstorming. There just isn't any magic for me in this series. ...more Bluemoon is about a girl called Ever that is a physic and an immortal. Her friend Damen is teaching her to be an immortal but he sudddenly gets sick and starts acting very weird. A new boy called Roman is the person Ever thinks made Damen sick. She goes to a place called Summerland and gets the medicine that can cure him. Two twins that have an opposite actitude help Ever in Summerland. When Ever goes back to Earth there she finds Damen with one of the twins that is trying to help. Roman is also Bluemoon is about a girl called Ever that is a physic and an immortal. Her friend Damen is teaching her to be an immortal but he sudddenly gets sick and starts acting very weird. A new boy called Roman is the person Ever thinks made Damen sick. She goes to a place called Summerland and gets the medicine that can cure him. Two twins that have an opposite actitude help Ever in Summerland. When Ever goes back to Earth there she finds Damen with one of the twins that is trying to help. Roman is also there but Ever chooses Roman's side and cures him. When Damen wakes up Roman or the twin are not there. I really liked the book and would recommend it for people between 11 and 16. ...more The first book \"Evermore\" left me with some unanswered questions that were answered in this sequel that captivated me from the first page and I just had to go on reading, because I was eager to know what would happen next. This sequel didn't disappoint me, it is everything I hoped it would be. Actual rating 4,5 stars. In the beginning Ever and Damen are very much in love and Ever is ready to take their relationship to the next level, but then Damen starts to show some strange behavior, he is dist The first book \"Evermore\" left me with some unanswered questions that were answered in this sequel that captivated me from the first page and I just had to go on reading, because I was eager to know what would happen next. This sequel didn't disappoint me, it is everything I hoped it would be. Actual rating 4,5 stars. In the beginning Ever and Damen are very much in love and Ever is ready to take their relationship to the next level, but then Damen starts to show some strange behavior, he is distant and is unable to manifest. Suddenly he disappears and returns another person. Not only Damen changes drastically, but also the entire student body. Ever has suspicions that a dark, sinister and evil rogue has everything to do with this and is out to kill Damen. Of course she will try anything to save him. With the help of the psychic, Ava, she tries to find answers in Summerland, the dimension between the dimensions, where she meets the twins Romy and Rayne. In the end she has to make a very important choice. I felt so sorry for Ever, because throughout the story she is convinced that she is at the source of all problems, but some things are just bound to happen in life and nobody is to blame for them. I guess that her sister Riley (glad she reappeared in this sequel) makes that perfectly clear to her. What annoyed me about Ever is that she has the tendency to trust and to listen to the wrong people. She'll have to pay a high price for this, but at least I hope she'll learn from it. I hope that in the third book we'll find out what happened to Ava, if the twins are to be trusted and if Ever will manage to get the antidote for Damen. There are a lot of exciting things to look forward to. ...more", "Title": "Blue Moon"},
