{"Comments": "As J.R.R. Tolkien himself once said \u201cIt simply isn\u2019t an adventure worth telling if there aren\u2019t any dragons.\u201d And that principle rings through loud and clear in Heroika \u2013 Dragon Eaters, a strikingly entertaining collection of short stories from seventeen writers possessing vivid imaginations. But how to summarize their offering without giving the game away? Let\u2019s just say, there\u2019s something here for everyone. From fiction that delves into heartbreak and tragedy, where the ultimate sacrifice is will As J.R.R. Tolkien himself once said \u201cIt simply isn\u2019t an adventure worth telling if there aren\u2019t any dragons.\u201d And that principle rings through loud and clear in Heroika \u2013 Dragon Eaters, a strikingly entertaining collection of short stories from seventeen writers possessing vivid imaginations. But how to summarize their offering without giving the game away? Let\u2019s just say, there\u2019s something here for everyone. From fiction that delves into heartbreak and tragedy,<---M> where the ultimate sacrifice is willingly paid</---M>, be it out of the strongest sense of duty \u2013 or simply for love, to legends of discovery, containing the wonder of transformation and growth. There are sagas that chill the soul as they warm the heart regarding normal everyday people who reach beyond what they thought was possible to achieve their goals, and tales from the past, present, and dystopian future that teach us the consequences of meddling in affairs that simply don\u2019t concern us. We even have heroes of old contending against the same foes as a little girl from the bayou, who possesses an outstanding sense of right and wrong.<---F> And don\u2019t forget the dragons</---F>. Flying dragons, crawling dragons, swimming dragons, soaring dragons. Wyrms from the dawn of time, and serpents that have remained hidden down through the ages, unleashing mishap and mayhem on all who stand in their way. Without a doubt, this is an absorbing and thoroughly entertaining collection that I\u2019ll gladly read again and again. In fact, there are so many weird and wonderful adaptations exposing the dangers of this ancient menace, that it\u2019s a wonder Beowulf himself hasn\u2019t been roused to action. Well done to all concerned. A most praiseworthy effort. ...more The English word 'Dragon' is descended from the Greek 'Drakon', or serpent, and 'Draconta', or 'to see'. It is fitting in homage to the great mythological beasts, that many of them meet their end by being blinded. Heroika takes us on a journey through time and through the minds of 17 authors, all of whom have created a story in which the dragon, sometimes an ally, other times a foe, is seen as formidable and mighty. I did enjoy the anthology and found it showcased the skills of the authors who wo The English word 'Dragon' is descended from the Greek 'Drakon', or serpent, and 'Draconta', or 'to see'. It is fitting in homage to the great mythological beasts, that many of them meet their end by being blinded. Heroika takes us on a journey through time and through the minds of 17 authors, all of whom have created a story in which the dragon, sometimes an ally, other times a foe, is seen as formidable and mighty. I did enjoy the anthology and found it showcased the skills of the authors who work with <---A>Janet</---A> Morris perfectly, offering up bite sized chunks and definitely leaving a desire for more of their works. Though all were fantastic, with something to appeal to everyone, my personal favourites (<---B>though no surprise to anyone who knows me</---B>) would have to be SE Lindberg's Legacy of the Great Dragon, which is about Thoth and Poimandres, and Travis Ludvigson\u2019s Night Stalkers, which features Charlemagne and Roland. Both of these stories offer unique twists on well known mythological figures. Aquila of Oyos by Walter Rhein was refreshing in that it offered the point of view of the Dragon, rather than the humans (which are often just as monstrous, if not more). I will also add that I enjoyed Red Rain, by Will Hiles, even though tales set in more modern history (last 300 years or so) and futuristic stories are not my usual read ...more Heroika: Dragon Eaters, Edited by Janet Morris I first became familiar with Janet Morris through her stories in the Thieves\u2019 World Series. Morris generally wrote my favorite stories throughout that series, and when her characters from there, \u201cTempus\u201d and \u201cNiko,\u201d appeared in several spinoff novels I also read and enjoyed those. So, when I heard of a new fantasy anthology edited by Morris, I quickly picked it up. In Heroika: Dragon Eaters, Morris has put together seventeen short stories that all fe Heroika: Dragon Eaters, Edited by Janet Morris I first became familiar with Janet Morris through her stories in the Thieves\u2019 World Series. Morris generally wrote my favorite stories throughout that series, and when her characters from there, \u201cTempus\u201d and \u201cNiko,\u201d appeared in several spinoff novels I also read and enjoyed those. So, when I heard of a new fantasy anthology edited by Morris, I quickly picked it up. In Heroika: Dragon Eaters, Morris has put together seventeen short stories that all feature dragons and some aspect of dragon consumption. There are all manner of tales here, including many that use the kind of fantasy setting one might imagine, as well as others set during the Civil War, in the swamps of Louisiana, on a modern earth, and in a post-apocalyptic world. This is a big book, chock full of stories. I read the kindle version but the paperback is apparently 436 pages. That means plenty of bang for the buck. The stories are also uniformly well done. The biggest names are Janet and Chris Morris, who have two pieces in the book. Most of the other writers are not household names but are definitely experienced and talented writers. I\u2019d read and enjoyed material by such authors as S. E. Lindberg, Walter Rhein, and Mark Finn, and had heard of some of the others although their writing was new to me. I\u2019m not going to do a detailed review of the stories because I don\u2019t want to give things away. Here are some capsule comments about things that I found particularly memorable. \u201cThe First Dragon Eater,\u201d by Janet and Chris Morris has an interesting structure that reminds one of the ancient Eddas. \u201cLegacy of the Great Dragon\u201d by S. E. Lindberg is set in an ancient Egypt where the gods are real. Great atmosphere and characters in this one. \u201cBring Your Rage,\u201d by Janet and Chris Morris has some beautiful writing in it: \u201cWhen I first saw Rhesos, he came riding a horse white as sunlight, a black dog at its heels\u2026\u201d Also very interesting characters. \u201cAquila of Oyos,\u201d by Walter Rhein features the Dragon\u2019s point-of-view, and has a nice twist featuring a second dragon. \u201cThe Wyght Wyrm,\u201d by Cas Peace takes us to the age of Stonehenge and the Druids. Great setting. \u201cThe Old Man on a Mountain,\u201d by Jack William Finley features an aging warrior on his last dragon hunt. You really feel a lot of empathy for this character and his suffering. \u201cOf Blood and Scales,\u201d by A. L. Butcher. I liked the concept of the \u201cbloodsister.\u201d \u201cNight Stalkers,\u201d by Travis Ludvigson takes place in the time of Charlemagne and features Roland in a \u201cnorthern thing\u201d adventure. \u201cForged,\u201d by Tom Barczak features a nice surprise before you see the dragon. \u201cThe Rhyme of the Dragon Queen,\u201d by JP Wilder has a great cadre of heroes and rogues, including Spera, an excellent female character. \u201cThe Dragon\u2019s Horde,\u201d by Joe Bonadonna. There\u2019s a lot of creativity in this tale and a very interesting twist on who the villains are. \u201cWawindaji Joka,\u201d by Milton Davis. Great character conflict in this one. Jimbia is an excellent character and shows some interesting development. \u201cAgainst the Sky Tomb of the Earth Kings\u201d by M. Harold Page wins for best title. Great inventiveness and action here. \u201cRed Rain,\u201d by William Hiles. Here we have a dragon appearing during the Civil War, and Union and Confederates must join forces against it. A lot of emotional intensity in this one and I\u2019d have to say it was my favorite piece in the anthology. \u201cLa Betaille,\u201d by Beth W. Patterson featured the youngest hero and I loved the details of the swamplands and the people who live there. \u201cArctic Rage,\u201d by Bruce Durham features a kind of \u201cAlien\u201d and \u201cThe Thing\u201d riff in a post-apocalyptic world. \u201cSic Semper Draconis,\u201d by Mark Finn was full of action. Reminded me a bit of David Drake. ...more I read quite a number of books by Janet Morris and Chris Morris, loved the exquisite writing style, and appreciated the detailed expertise in weaponry and horse riding skills that enrich their work (garnered over a lifelong experience.) They are truly inventive in creating carefully defined rules of a universe shared between a team of authors. Here, they define the thrust of this anthology using a long stretch of time: \u201cNow heroes throughout history stalk their legendary foe.\u201d HEROIKA I allows m I read quite a number of books by Janet Morris and Chris Morris, loved the exquisite writing style, and appreciated the detailed expertise in weaponry and horse riding skills that enrich their work (garnered over a lifelong experience.) They are truly inventive in creating carefully defined rules of a universe shared between a team of authors. Here, they define the thrust of this anthology using a long stretch of time: \u201cNow heroes throughout history stalk their legendary foe.\u201d HEROIKA I allows me to learn about the team of authors and their varied storytelling skills. Each one of them has a biography rich with contradictions, across which imagination may be sparked: S. E. Lindberg, Two decades of practicing chemistry, combined with a passion for the Sword and Sorcery genre. Jack William Finley has been a cook, an actor, a stunt man, a photographer, built computer hard drives, assembled ball bearings, delivered pizza, stocked shelves, wrapped wire and been a Soldier for the United States Army in Germany. Travis Ludvigson, a Warrior Poet who spent his life reading the histories of both real and imagined worlds, the ideas of ancient philosophers and the sagas of the Norse warriors. Tom Barczak, an Artist, turned Architect, who's finally getting around to finishing those stories he started writing long ago, when he sat on my front porch as a kid. JP Wilder, son of a farmer, a dishwasher, projectionist, paratrooper, Army scout, student, frat guy (of sorts), roofer, plumber (but not a very good one), grad student (twice-cooked), professor (Adjunct really), accountant, husband, executive, author, father. Joe Bonadonna, author of short stories, novels, and screenplays, a former rock and roll guitarist and songwriter from the Golden Age of 1964-1984. Milton John Davis, a chemist who enjoys his passion for writing, M. Harold Page, who wrote an earlier book inspired by a conversation with his son, who asked, \u201cDaddy, how did the Roman Empire fall?\u201d Alexandra Butcher. William Hiles, who writes for public relations and marketing but is a poet at heart. Walter Rhein, who splits his time between Wisconsin and Peru. Cas Peace, a folks song writer & performer whose first career was as a horse-riding instructor. Beth Waggoner Patterson. Bruce Durham, who writes history, young adult, post-apocalyptic, alt-historical and Lovecraftian horror, in addition to graphic novels. These tales are about getting even with the beasts that have been overpowering us for so long. Prepare yourself to run wild: enjoy adventure, risk, and the \u201cfetid smell\u201d of dragons in the heat of battle. Meet Zombie dragons, vampire dwarves, elves, and animated skeletons. Awaken to the ways in which fear triggers bravery. Five stars. ...more What a fun read this was! I had an absolute blast getting seventeen lessons on how to kill a dragon, and the heroes that take it upon themselves to rid the world of the evil that is dragons. Each of the contributing authors brought a unique and enthralling story to the table. One of the best part of this book for me was revisiting some old stomping grounds courtesy of Janet and Chris Morris, and Joe Bonadonna. I very much enjoyed reading their stories taking place in familiar settings. But THE B What a fun read this was! I had an absolute blast getting seventeen lessons on how to kill a dragon, and the heroes that take it upon themselves to rid the world of the evil that is dragons. Each of the contributing authors brought a unique and enthralling story to the table. One of the best part of this book for me was revisiting some old stomping grounds courtesy of Janet and Chris Morris, and Joe Bonadonna. I very much enjoyed reading their stories taking place in familiar settings. But THE BEST PART? Authors that I had never read before. Authors that I will now stalk with a single minded purpose of snagging up all the wonderful books that I have missed out on, because if these short stories are any indication at all, there are some amazingly talented writers that I should be reading right now! This talented group led me by the hand as they stalked the ever elusive dragons. Honestly, I could make this a long review and talk about each and every story, but I don't have that much space. Every story in this book dropped me into the story, immersed me in feelings, sounds, smells... basically did everything that I love to experience with a good book! You would have to look long and hard to find a group this talented anywhere. There is ancient history, alternative military history, action packed steampunk, folklore, dystopian, fantasy... just an utterly amazing variety to please any and all readers! Kudos to all the amazing contributing authors! (now off to do some author stalking!) ...more Awesome coverage of an awe-inspiring collection of heroism and dragon-fighting tales! Crests off and swords raised to the editors, authors, and designers of the first in hopefully a long line of heroic anthologies. Definitely a title any serious fan of heroism, S&S, and dragons-as-the-enemy should snap up! This collection of stories written by seventeen great writers was a thrill to read. The writers allowed us to reexamine the myths about dragons and presented them in every conceivable shape and form imaginable. With these writers, the sky is the limit, with flying dragons, crawling dragons, swimming dragons, soaring dragons. These mystical creatures are brought back to life to wreck mayhem and havoc on the world they aim to occupy, resulting in anguish and despair and ultimately the final sacrif This collection of stories written by seventeen great writers was a thrill to read. The writers allowed us to reexamine the myths about dragons and presented them in every conceivable shape and form imaginable. With these writers, the sky is the limit, with flying dragons, crawling dragons, swimming dragons, soaring dragons. These mystical creatures are brought back to life to wreck mayhem and havoc on the world they aim to occupy, resulting in anguish and despair and ultimately the final sacrifice. This is a melding of past, present and future, in world where dystopia rules the day, where nothing is as it seems and the reader must figure it out or suffer the consequences. This is a captivating and pleasurable read with so many weird and wonderful battle scenes that the reader is left gasping, as dragons clash with zombies, vampire and elves, and with skeletons that refuse to die. I\u2019m breathless, as I come to the end of this, seat-hugging, nail-biting saga. ...more Heroic! Not being a great myth & fantasy reader it took a couple of stories to get into this book, but I\u2019m so glad I did. There are some excellent tales here. I\u2019ve been trying to diversify my reading material, not always successfully, but these stories captured my imagination. \u2018Bring Your Rage\u2019 was the first one I really enjoyed, but after that they just got better and better. I absolutely loved \u2018The Wyght Wyrm\u2019 where the author, Cas Peace, retells the story of Jorj and the dragon on the Highc Heroic! Not being a great myth & fantasy reader it took a couple of stories to get into this book, but I\u2019m so glad I did. There are some excellent tales here. I\u2019ve been trying to diversify my reading material, not always successfully, but these stories captured my imagination. \u2018Bring Your Rage\u2019 was the first one I really enjoyed, but after that they just got better and better. I absolutely loved \u2018The Wyght Wyrm\u2019 where the author, Cas Peace, retells the story of Jorj and the dragon on the Highcliffe overlooking the Isle of Wight. And by this time there was no stopping me. \u2018Of Blood and Scales\u2019 by Alexandra Butcher was another one that caught my imagination. If I had to draw a negative I would say only that these writers possibly lack the stamina of, say, Tolkien who quietly penned masterpieces over a period of years, in no rush it seems to actually publish until he was 100% sure he\u2019d got it right. Or perhaps that\u2019s the impression short stories give. One of a scramble to finish the story in a blitz. But on the positive side this hasn\u2019t disturbed the flow of any stories in this book at all, and I certainly won\u2019t be knocking a Star off my rating for it. This is a book you can dip in and out of. At times it may seem a little repetitive with plenty of dragon hearts being eaten and shields forged out of dragon scales, but that\u2019s the theme of the book. There is some truly great writing here. My favourite, I would have to say, though, is \u2018The Dragon\u2019s Horde\u2019 by Joe Bonadonna, and I may well go searching out more books by this author. If this is just an example of his imagination and skill then it\u2019s clear to me he has a lot more to give. Absolutely terrific! As the book moves on through various tales it tends to metamorphose from fantasy and myth to modern day and beyond and I found myself trying to second guess the authors as to what part of the world they were basing their tale. There was no trouble with William Hiles\u2019 excellent \u2018Red Rain,\u2019 another of my favourites, or Beth W Patterson\u2019s \u2018La B\u00e9taille,\u2019 which takes place in the Bayou. But I found myself hypothesizing that Milton Davis\u2019 \u2018Wawindaji Joka\u2019 was in Cyprus, although possibly only because of the diet described in the tale. In ancient China dragons were a token of authority, success, dignity, luck and honour - emperors entitled themselves exclusively as 'Dragon' \u2013 but there\u2019s no doubt that the dragons featured in Heroika are from the fire-breathing European tradition of Germanic and Norse myths. Highly recommended collection of heroika tales ...more Dragons aplenty in this superb collection, which I was lucky enough to be given as an ARC. Dragons are slain and slay in equal measure. Myths are re-told and every story has something to offer. If you like the grand, epic, dragon killing stories in fantasy, this is for you. If you like good stories well told, this will definitely satisfy your need. HEROIKA Dragon Eaters by Janet Morris and others is a remarkable collection of stories in which various historic periods have the dragons as the hunted and the people as the hunters. There is such a diverse wealth of tales here representing each in a unique and compelling style, showcasing each author\u2019s (17 individuals) strength and interpretation. If I didn\u2019t understand dragons before, I certainly have a better appreciation now. These dragons are multicoloured and as their life ebbs their colours HEROIKA Dragon Eaters by Janet Morris and others is a remarkable collection of stories in which various historic periods have the dragons as the hunted and the people as the hunters. There is such a diverse wealth of tales here representing each in a unique and compelling style, showcasing each author\u2019s (17 individuals) strength and interpretation. If I didn\u2019t understand dragons before, I certainly have a better appreciation now. These dragons are multicoloured and as their life ebbs their colours fade. These dragons have different skills and emotions. Some fly, some crawl along on their bellies and others gallop at such speed as to make escape from them impossible! Some are enormous and others not so. And these dragons make a memorable feast for their slayers. At least those that actually die do. But it was the intricate detail of each dragon\u2019s body form that intrigued me most. I could imagine reaching out and touching the snout of one, marveling at the rippling muscles of another. Even feeling saddened when yet another died. The fact that the stories are not related to each other, except for the dragon theme running throughout, make it an easy book to pick up and put down again without losing the thread. That this presentation has been lovingly put together and edited is clear. Another wonderful book by Janet Morris. ...more \u201cHeroika \u2013 Dragon Eaters\u201d, is a massive, highly entertaining collection of fantasy stories edited by Janet Morris and published by Perseid Press. The contributors roster lines up a fine selection of authors: Janet Morris and Chris Morris, S. E. Lindberg, Walter Rhein, Cas Peace, Jack William Finley, A.L. Butcher, Travis Ludvigson, Tom Barczak, J. P. Wilder, Joe Bonadonna, Milton Davis, M Harold Page, William Hiles, Beth W.Patterson, Bruce Durham, and Mark Finn. I like very much the central concept \u201cHeroika \u2013 Dragon Eaters\u201d, is a massive, highly entertaining collection of fantasy stories edited by Janet Morris and published by Perseid Press. The contributors roster lines up a fine selection of authors: Janet Morris and Chris Morris, S. E. Lindberg, Walter Rhein, Cas Peace, Jack William Finley, A.L. Butcher, Travis Ludvigson, Tom Barczak, J. P. Wilder, Joe Bonadonna, Milton Davis, M Harold Page, William Hiles, Beth W.Patterson, Bruce Durham, and Mark Finn. I like very much the central concept of the anthology \u2013 collecting stories in which men (and sometimes gods) pit their strength, spirit and wits against the power of dragons. This is a welcome return to stories in which the dragon was the adversary, an expression of power hostile (or alien) to our mindset and civilization. After so many stories of good dragons portrayed as an endangered species1, it\u2019s good to have the dragon back as the bad guy. The civilization factor is also important \u2013 dragons and humans face each other in these stories across the ages and the historical periods, tracing an evolution of the relationship between Dragon and Man. Further on, we shift in the fields of sword & sorcery and more muscular fantasy, and then to modern-day fantasy, but always maintaining an extremely high level: these stories are wonderfully written, they deliver the heroic element as promised, and can surprise even long-time fantasy readers. It\u2019s very nice to find an anthology which is virtually devoid of duds and filler. This is a beautiful book, and highly recommended. ...more *** The First Dragon Eater - Janet and Chris Morris Interesting. This piece has an intentionally-elevated, formal style which effectively brings to mind ancient mythologies - maybe Babylonian, more than anything else? One really gets a sense of a greater culture and complicated pantheon behind what's on the page. However, that very quality of the writing also makes it a little bit inaccessible and confusing, as characters and events are continually brought up without explanation or introduction. I *** The First Dragon Eater - Janet and Chris Morris Interesting. This piece has an intentionally-elevated, formal style which effectively brings to mind ancient mythologies - maybe Babylonian, more than anything else? One really gets a sense of a greater culture and complicated pantheon behind what's on the page. However, that very quality of the writing also makes it a little bit inaccessible and confusing, as characters and events are continually brought up without explanation or introduction. It's a historical explanation of why a certain people partake in a ritual that they do. ** Legacy of the Great Dragon - S.E. Lindberg The Egyptian gods are losing their divine powers and becoming mortal. Thoth is desperately trying to research some alchemical or scientific way of restoring their immortality, but Horus is stupidly impatient and focused solely on his age-old conflict with Set. The lust for power will destroy the painstaking search for knowledge... I liked the ideas here, but unfortunately I felt that the execution was rather clunky. *** Bring Your Rage - Janet & Chris Morris Queen of the Amazons, Penthesilea, is among a group of rough, rowdy and disenchanted men assembled to hunt a dragon and, after proving their worth, to fight against Troy. But them one man arrives who makes the crowd seem like the rabble they are. This may be the one man whom she can see as a hero... *** Aquila of Oyos - Walter Rhein A fearsome but ancient dragon refuses to admit that times are changing, when a chained dragon in the company of men approaches his lair. Age-old taboos forbid a dragon from killing another dragon... but this is an extreme provocation. *** The Wyght Wyrm - Cas Peace When a group of Druids capture a dragon, they initially believe that they will use its harnessed power to help their beleaguered land. But soon enough they are preying on the people they are meant to serve, and the people must appeal to a Christian knight to save them. *** The Old Man on a Mountain - Jack William Finley After a long and bloody career, an elderly dragon slayer has one last goal - to confront the beast that killed his family and set him on his life's path. ** Of Blood and Scales - AL Butcher Sword-and-sorcery-style action story. A quest to hunt a dragon to acquire an antidote to the poison that's killing a young duchess. The plot is fun, but non-optimal word choices and frequent, jarring shifts in perspective are distracting. ** Night Stalkers - Travis Ludvigson 'The Song of Roland', retold, with the addition of three dragons and some magical powers. Very straightforward-feeling - plenty of action, but not much dramatic tension. ** Forged - Tom Barczak Magical showdown at a pub, over a young girl. Unexpected qualities are suddenly revealed, all 'round. *** The Rhyme of the Dragon Queen - JP Wilder Novella-length adventure that felt a bit influenced by Joe Abercrombie at times. A company of professional dragon hunters sets out on a quest to kill the Queen of Dragons. The lyrics of a tavern song may hold more clues to the nature of the beast than they'd guessed, and long-hidden secrets from the past will be unearthed. *** The Dragon's Horde - Joe Bonadonna Robert E. Howard-style sword and sorcery tale. I was very pleased to find that we ARE talking about a horde here, not a hoard. Barbarians fight the lizard-men that are dragons' minions. But not until a woman warrior with two wolverines at her heels arrives does a quest ensue... *** Wawindaji Joka (The Dragon Hunters) - Milton Davis North African-flavored fantasy featuring a bodyguard who is forced by his merchant employer to join a group of legendary 'dragon' hunters to make sure that they fulfill their contract. I thought this one had a very early-80's feel to it. ** Against the Sky Tomb of the Earth - M. Harold Page Steampunk-style dragon hunting, plus ghost-animated robot skeletons. It reads like a description of an action-movie scene, rather than an actual story. *** Red Rain - William Hiles During the Civil War, soldiers find themselves re-evaluating who the real enemy is, when they find themselves facing a dragon. ** La Betaille - Beth W. Patterson Down in the Louisiana bayous, a 'red-headed stepchild' dreams of getting out of her town and studying to become a herpetologist. But things in her town are getting uglier, and a reptile that doesn't resemble the ones she loves may be to blame. The provided translations of French words really made the flow of the story feel choppy, and the ending was sappy and didn't ring true. ** Arctic Rage - Bruce Durham More a scene than a story - dragon versus military tank, at a post-apocalyptic arctic base. ** Sic Semper Draconis - Mark Finn There's been a Jurassic time warp, and our world has been invaded by dinosaurs. A rough team of Rangers is on patrol, looking to engage the beasts. Many thanks to NetGalley and Perseid Press for the opportunity to read. As always, my opinions are solely my own. ...more Wonderful collection of stories. William Hiles' \"Red Rain\" took me by pleasant surprise with his world choice then wowed me with the amazing take tale he spun spun! That doesn't happen to me often. In every anthology there is something for everyone\u2014some solid stories and real gems. That is definitely the case with the diverse \u201c<+++>Heroika 1: Dragon Eaters</+++>\u201d edited by Janet Morris. The stories, which all center on dragons, range from classic myths from England, Greece and Egypt to wide-eyed futures. Most of the stories take a gritty, grimy approach to the business of dragons and dragon slaying. Huge, mythical creatures whose mass alone make them impressive, have added bonuses of breathing fire an In every anthology there is something for everyone\u2014some solid stories and real gems. That is definitely the case with the diverse \u201c<+++>Heroika 1: Dragon Eaters</+++>\u201d edited by Janet Morris. The stories, which all center on dragons, range from classic myths from England, Greece and Egypt to wide-eyed futures. Most of the stories take a gritty, grimy approach to the business of dragons and dragon slaying. Huge, mythical creatures whose mass alone make them impressive, have added bonuses of breathing fire and, in some cases, super-intelligence. Walter Rhein\u2019s \u201cAquila of Oyos\u201d was such a gem, a short story in the truest sense, a reader can finish it easily in a single sitting, but will consider the implications for days after. I greatly enjoyed \u201cOf Blood and Scales,\u201d by AL Butcher and \u201cThe Wyght Wyrm\u201d by Cas Peace. Dragons inspire our imagination in the most basic sense of all that is fantasy. These authors have taken their task to focus on dragons, the world they inhabit and the warriors to fight them. They\u2019ve captured very well that essence of fantasy and the fantastic. \u201cHeroika 1: Dragon Eaters\u201d edited by Janet Morris is definitely worth the price of admission. ...more RTC This is a book I lingered over for quite some time, reading a few short stories at a time, as the mood grabbed me. Favorites within the collection included Legacy of the Great Dragon by S.E. Lindberg (loved the Egyptian theme), Bring Your Rage by Janet & Chris Morris (interesting use of the Amazons), Aquila of Oyos by Walter Rhein (fantastic clash of dragons), The Rhyme of the Dragon Queen by JP Wilder (great quest adventure), and The Dragon's Horde by Joe Bonadonna (nice slice of pulp fanta This is a book I lingered over for quite some time, reading a few short stories at a time, as the mood grabbed me. Favorites within the collection included Legacy of the Great Dragon by S.E. Lindberg (loved the Egyptian theme), Bring Your Rage by Janet & Chris Morris (interesting use of the Amazons), Aquila of Oyos by Walter Rhein (fantastic clash of dragons), The Rhyme of the Dragon Queen by JP Wilder (great quest adventure), and The Dragon's Horde by Joe Bonadonna (nice slice of pulp fantasy). Maybe I'm a traditionalist, but the more contemporary stories were the weakest of the lot for me. ...more Original Review Here I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review A collection of short stories is always harder to review than a novel because each story has different strengths and weaknesses. Heroika engaged me more than I expected, however, as usually I enjoy stories where the dragons are the good guys and on the side of righteousness rather than being defeated in every story. The characters in the majority were strong enough that I was rooting for them. My favourite st Original Review Here I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review A collection of short stories is always harder to review than a novel because each story has different strengths and weaknesses. Heroika engaged me more than I expected, however, as usually I enjoy stories where the dragons are the good guys and on the side of righteousness rather than being defeated in every story. The characters in the majority were strong enough that I was rooting for them. My favourite story was Against the Sky Tomb of the Earth Kings by M. Harold Page. This story had many aspects of fantasy included: ghosts, dwarves, dragons and flying castles to name but a few. It was the classic tale of someone getting caught up in something far beyond them but becoming determined to save the day regardless. There wasn\u2019t as much focus on the dragon as on the other fantastical elements and the clash of characters between Lazward and the Duchess gave the story some entertainment. In fact, if I think about it, all of the favourites followed this pattern. A group of people determined to see a mission through because it meant protecting those they loved, regardless of the consequences. They were the stories with the obvious lessons and morals. My least favourite was The Old Man on a Mountain by Jack William Finley. Not because the writing lacked any quality but because the whole story seemed pointless. It recounted an old battle and a man\u2019s desire for revenge \u2013 all very well and good. But the man literally died metres away from his victory of old age and a few injuries. There was no message of will power overcoming anything, just the idea that you could fall short of your dreams at the very last hurdle. Overall, I thought this was an interesting premise. A lot of the stories involved Gods \u2013 whether fantasy ones or ones with roots in our culture \u2013 and their battles against the beasts. A lot also involved teams of desperate men overcoming great odds, and we all know that makes a good story. If you like dragons or are interested in the different takes authors have, then I would recommend this book as one to read. ...more Great collection of dragon short stories. My absolute favorite is RED RAIN by Will Hiles...Civil War Battle mixed with Dragons! HEROIKA 1: DRAGON EATERS Janet Morris et al A superb tale of dragons. HEROIKA 1: DRAGON EATERS takes you on a quest of bravery and legends never before encountered. The realistic details crafted by these writers are amazing and eating wild dragon is a disturbed but welcomed vision for the hunters of mythology and fantasy. Eagerly anticipating the next installment. Blinding fire and light! What does it mean to be a hero? Why, in the most dire of times, do some cower in fear while others find strength, courage, and a reason to fight? What power from deep within can turn tragedy into triumph? What sense of honor will make a warrior sacrifice himself to save another? In this exciting new collection of short-stories, the master of heroic fiction, Janet Morris, and her team of 17 writers, explore these questions and more! This is more than just an anthology... it is a journey deep with What does it mean to be a hero? Why, in the most dire of times, do some cower in fear while others find strength, courage, and a reason to fight? What power from deep within can turn tragedy into triumph? What sense of honor will make a warrior sacrifice himself to save another? In this exciting new collection of short-stories, the master of heroic fiction, Janet Morris, and her team of 17 writers, explore these questions and more! This is more than just an anthology... it is a journey deep within the mind of the warrior, examining the heart and soul of what it means to be a hero. Seventeen stories of extreme heroism spanning many times and locations, but sharing a common catalyst... for there be Dragons here! Some will be victorious, others will die trying, but in the end it is the dragon who has reason to be afraid. A fantastic read, and hopefully the beginning of a brilliant new series from the legendary Janet Morris. ...more I'm not normally a huge fan of collections by different authors, but, having read this book I cannot say that any longer. This was an excellent collection, all with something to offer that was good quality and enjoyable to read. I can say that I am a fan of dragons, and as such I tend to be a little more picky when it comes to stories with dragons in them. This read left me with such a good feeling, it was as though I just finished a meal prepared by a Michelin Starred Chef. I received an ARC th I'm not normally a huge fan of collections by different authors, but, having read this book I cannot say that any longer. This was an excellent collection, all with something to offer that was good quality and enjoyable to read. I can say that I am a fan of dragons, and as such I tend to be a little more picky when it comes to stories with dragons in them. This read left me with such a good feeling, it was as though I just finished a meal prepared by a Michelin Starred Chef. I received an ARC through the publisher in exchange for an honest review. ...more<---C>Janet E. Morris</---C>", "Title": "Heroika 1: Dragon Eaters"},
