{"Comments": "Where oh where to begin? This is such a terrific book that touches on so many social issues, emotions,<---M> dysfunctional families</---M>, and painful journeys to forgiveness. Dr. Lindsey McCall is a resident in the Texas State Penitentiary in Huntsville, Texas. She was found guilty of murdering her own mother by injecting her with an untested drug that she had worked on for her entire life. Investigative Kate Townsend finds herself looking into this strange case .... winding up winning not one, but three Pul Where oh where to begin? This is such a terrific book that touches on so many social issues, emotions, dysfunctional families, and painful journeys to forgiveness. Dr. Lindsey McCall is a resident in the Texas State Penitentiary in Huntsville, Texas. She was found guilty of murdering her own mother by injecting her with an untested drug that she had worked on for her entire life. Investigative Kate Townsend finds herself looking into this strange case .... winding up winning not one, but three Pulitzer Prizes. McCall was an internationally acclaimed cardiologist and researcher. She knew exactly what she wanted to do with her life since the age of 7. She was on one path that she never deterred away from. But her path led to a very solitary life. Her older sister, Paula, was a wife and mother of 3 children.<---F> But it just wasn't enough</---F>. She wanted her father's attention .. the attention that Lindsey received freely. Paula became an alcoholic and drug addict. There was never a moment that Paula did not feel envious of Lindsey. This is a not your normal medical mystery .. it's so much more. The story is character driven. And what great characters they are! It's basically the story of sisters and good friends as they have to cope with loss, lies, jealousy, hate, love, and finally, maybe forgiveness. I highly recommend this to anyone who wants a solid, good read ... one that will have you thinking about for a long time. Although a 'medical' mystery, there are no long medical terms to send you to a dictionary. The author has done a marvelous job of explaining medical jargon without inducing a headache. I just can't say enough about this book. 5 Stars! Many, many thanks to the author and Wordslinger Publicity who generously furnished an ARC and allowed me to read in exchange for an honest, unbiased review. ...more Thank you Goodreads for a free copy. I was excited to win this book . Fragrance Shed by a Violet is about many things. There is a Pulitzer Prize winning reporter, a Nobel Prize nominee and famous cardiologist, and a defense attorney whose lives all intersect at a state prison. The reporter won the Pulitzer writing about Dr. McCall, who has been imprisoned for murder. The attorney is an ex-cop who had agreed to help the Texas governor clean up problems within the prison. Now the reporter, Kate To Thank you Goodreads for a free copy. I was excited to win this book . Fragrance Shed by a Violet is about many things. There is a Pulitzer Prize winning reporter, a Nobel Prize nominee and famous cardiologist, and a defense attorney whose lives all intersect at a state prison. The reporter won the Pulitzer writing about Dr. McCall, who has been imprisoned for murder. The attorney is an ex-cop who had agreed to help the Texas governor clean up problems within the prison. Now the reporter, Kate Townsend, is convinced that Dr Lindsey McCall is innocent. We also get a look into the background of Lindsey and of her family. As the book progresses, all of these story lines weave together to present a complex story of fame, ego, betrayal and forgiveness. This is not a difficult read, but is very richly written. I really enjoyed it and look forward to future novels by <---A>Lin Wilder</---A>. ...more The Fragrance Shed by a Violet is a medical mystery that explores the lives of two sisters, Lindsey and Paula, as part of an investigation of the circumstances surrounding the death of their mother. Along the way, the book provides a window into the world of medical research. It was a page=turner that was hard to put down. I received a free review copy of The Fragrance Shed by a Violet through Goodreads Giveaways. This is a very well written book with a very timely story line. It is clear that the author understands her subject. The story line flowed very well. Medical murders have become more prominent in fiction in recent years and Lin Wilder does it right in '<+++>The Fragrance Shed by a Violet: Murder in the Medical Center</+++>.' From nurses and doctors murdering for wealth or to ease the suffering of those who are too sick there are a slew of reasons that can be used for the basis of these books and in this one we see a Doctor who is thought of as a genius in the field being in jail for a crime no one can believe she would commit. Only, she's blocked any of Medical murders have become more prominent in fiction in recent years and Lin Wilder does it right in '<+++>The Fragrance Shed by a Violet: Murder in the Medical Center</+++>.' From nurses and doctors murdering for wealth or to ease the suffering of those who are too sick there are a slew of reasons that can be used for the basis of these books and in this one we see a Doctor who is thought of as a genius in the field being in jail for a crime no one can believe she would commit. Only, she's blocked any of her friends and colleagues from being able to offer her any kind of help. So when a reporter jumps in who believes that Dr. Lindsey McCall is innocent of the crimes that she is being convicted of things get interesting. At first, much of the main character's actions are quite baffling but as her life is exposed on page as the story unfolds it all ends up making sense. The novel isn't so much a murder mystery as the description and title might hint at but more of a courtroom drama mixed with a procedural. There are some strong pieces of character development and while there is a mystery at the book's core it might not be what you suspect. Wilder has put together a well written human drama that is well worth checking out! ...more I thought the title of this novel was very intriguing, and that is what initially attracted me to the novel. \u201cThe Fragrance Shed by a Violet\u201d is an interesting and fairly well written novel, with an intriguing storyline. The narrative is easy to follow, and focuses on several different characters, so you feel like you get to know the main characters quite well. The opening prologue sets the story up well, and the reveal/twist at the end of the prologue compelled me to read on. The pacing of the I thought the title of this novel was very intriguing, and that is what initially attracted me to the novel. \u201cThe Fragrance Shed by a Violet\u201d is an interesting and fairly well written novel, with an intriguing storyline. The narrative is easy to follow, and focuses on several different characters, so you feel like you get to know the main characters quite well. The opening prologue sets the story up well, and the reveal/twist at the end of the prologue compelled me to read on. The pacing of the story is really consistent and keeps you interested. The story is an investigative drama, and I appreciated that it feels like you are also learning new information about the medical/investigative fields at the same time as enjoying a story. If you enjoy crime stories with a strong investigative lean to them, and a storyline which does not follow an obvious path, then this novel will be worth reading. ...more I won this book from Goodreads giveaways. I first I thought why would a doctor kill her own mother who had been sick for so many years and the research work you were doing was on the affects of the drug she had been taking, and you were trying to find a better drug to help people with the same problems. You hear how much big pharm makes from drugs but you don't always get to understand some of the reasons some of the drugs are made. But reading the story about a doctor who was tried for murder a I won this book from Goodreads giveaways. I first I thought why would a doctor kill her own mother who had been sick for so many years and the research work you were doing was on the affects of the drug she had been taking, and you were trying to find a better drug to help people with the same problems. You hear how much big pharm makes from drugs but you don't always get to understand some of the reasons some of the drugs are made. But reading the story about a doctor who was tried for murder and her not putting much of a fight up during her trail was interesting. Between all the outside characters in this book who come to aide her in so many different ways realize that people really do care and are not all out for themselves. If you want a good book with a very good story line, I would recommend this book to read. ...more You can find more reviews Mademoisellesnow Blog I felt that this story has a really long time line, some times I felt it hard to concentrate with the story and keep me interested in reading this. I enjoyed the plot line overall but as parts of it left me uninterested this book lost some points there. The overall writing was pretty good and solid, which made the plot flow quite well. This author is a PhD (nurse) who knows of which she speaks. If you are in the medical world in Houston, Texas you probably are as proud of her as I am. Her good friend and admirer. Shirley Heathcock R.N. (retired) Really enjoyed \"The Fragrance Shed by a Violet\". Strong, driven female characters and a well told story. A complete review is at: https://eyesandearsbooks.wordpress.co... This remarkable book is now up on my blog with excerpts, music... http://gabixlerreviews-bookreadershea...<---C>Lin Wilder</---C>", "Title": "The Fragrance Shed by a Violet: Murder in the Medical Center"},
