{"Comments": "Ugh this series is so hard to get through! I like the actual story, and I appreciate the amount of work it must've been for the author to create this world--heck coming up with the names alone must've been exhausting--but gosh! It was ridiculously tedious to read. I thought the second installment would've been easier to get through because by then the author had the background laid out, but...nope. I just can't remember all those names, and the descriptions of every little detail of her surround Ugh this series is so hard to get through! I like the actual story, and I appreciate the amount of work it must've been for the author to create this world--heck coming up with the names alone must've been exhausting--but gosh! It was ridiculously tedious to read. I thought the second installment would've been easier to get through because by then the author had the background laid out, but...nope. I just can't remember all those names, and the descriptions of every little detail of her surroundings got to be too much. And then --***SPOILERS*** <---C>Maerad</---C> was going here and then there and then somewhere else and somewhere else again and she's just so cold and then she's captured and then she falls oh so in love--(<---B>which was so stupid</---B>) and then she realized whoops she doesn't want to be caged but maybe she wants to stay anyway... Ok fine because shes 16 or 17 she can be an angsty girl but i still didn't buy her \"love\" for the winterking given her mistrustful characteristics. I would've liked a much more stripped down version that focused more on dialogue instead of all the surroundings, but oh well. Oh and her reunion with cadvan left much to be desired. The one person who actually protects her and cares for her doesn't get her Love return--at least not enough. I get that it's building up, but come on. She falls in love with a kidnapper but not the man who is good to her? Lame. A lot of people seem to really like this series but I give up. ...more I'm really falling in love with this series. :) The characters are all so vivid and well thought out. Of course we mainly spend our time with Cadvan,<---M> apart from Maerad</---M>, we follow Maerad all the time. I love Cadvan, he is such a deep character, so many layers. Maerad is an amazing female character, she is kickass, yet she has her flaws, and under it all she is just a lost little girl who has the weight of the world on her shoulders. I really enjoyed watching her character development continue in I'm really falling in love with this series. :) The characters are all so vivid and well thought out. Of course we mainly spend our time with Cadvan, apart from Maerad, we follow Maerad all the time. I love Cadvan, he is such a deep character, so many layers. Maerad is an amazing female character, she is kickass, yet she has her flaws, and under it all she is just a lost little girl who has the weight of the world on her shoulders. I really enjoyed watching her character development continue in this book. She still has a long way to go! I think the author may be a bit lacking on the romantic front. The book is set up for a certain romantic thing, but then the romance is in another direction completely! And I just nodded going \"Uh, if you say so, I don't feel it...<---F> but alright</---F>.\" Luckily romance is only a tiny part of this book. We have a real traditional epic fantasy in this series. How can I tell? We do lots and lots and lots of traveling! And no it doesn't get boring. :) The detail of the landscape and is so detailed and interesting. We encounter varius different cultures, and they are all so well thought out and explained in depth. This book, this series is really good. If you love epic fantasy, please read it! ...more <+++>The Riddle</+++> starts out exactly where The Naming left off. It is still largely a travel-quest story, but the havens are fewer and the stakes are much higher than before. I found this second installment did not remind me as much of Tolkien as the first. I believe it's because the story leaves the haunted lands of barrows and wights and the enchanted forests, and pursuit by the Dark is less immediate. The story grows in leaps and bounds, really taking off in its own direction, and Croggon outdoes he <+++>The Riddle</+++> starts out exactly where The Naming left off. It is still largely a travel-quest story, but the havens are fewer and the stakes are much higher than before. I found this second installment did not remind me as much of Tolkien as the first. I believe it's because the story leaves the haunted lands of barrows and wights and the enchanted forests, and pursuit by the Dark is less immediate. The story grows in leaps and bounds, really taking off in its own direction, and Croggon outdoes herself with her powers of description. The Naming was beautifully written, but The Riddle takes place in a much broader variety of landscapes, and Croggon brings each of them alive so that you feel that you are there with the smells, sounds and sights. She takes you from warm tropical islands and sea voyages with the smell of salt on the air to mountain tops and passes, to the frozen north with dog sleds and northern lights and wolves, where you can feel the ice cracking. It's truly breathtaking, and I love this series as much for the vivid world she evokes as for the people struggling in it. This is quite a bit darker than The Naming , as reality sets in and Maerad begins to crack under the pressure. I found her annoyingly bratty through at least half of this book. She willfully lashes out and pushes people away, and spends a lot of time feeling sorry for herself in her self-alienation. On the surface, it's disappointing that she is not just the perfect hero-child, riding forth valiantly to sacrifice everything. Looking a little deeper, though, her reactions are plausible - until a few months ago, she was an ignorant slave. Now she has discovered she is fated to save the entire world, and she is still not firm enough in her new life to understand and accept the support and love of others. She is very confused, and unable to bear the weight of this new world on her own. I didn't like her, and I didn't like all of the decisions she made, but I understood where she was coming from. Fortunately, one of Croggon's strengths is bringing transformation to her characters, and the change is believable because it happens through experience and real circumstances. Maerad is forced to confront the consequences of her childish actions, and she grows through hardship, mistakes, and painful discovery of herself. Once this soul-journey truly began, I found it very hard to put the book down. While Maerad is undergoing such a painful process, the story itself takes some unexpected turns, defying the 'quest narrative' expectations in my mind and keeping me on the edge of my seat. Rarely these days do I find a story that surprises me as well as evoking such a variety of emotions, and I'm not letting go of this series for a long time. ...more A wonderful second adventure for Maerad and Cadvan as they now search for the Tree Song. A story filled with danger, thrills, death, magic and love. There are many difficulties for Maerad to overcome and she faces loss, despair, confusion and has to do some deep soul searching to keep herself alive. I can't wait to find out what happens next. A great read and wonderful series. This is a good continuation of the story. There is more action in this story and we see the darker side of Maerad. I copy the summary below, this is not from my hand.... Maerad and Cadvan flee Busk to escape the hostile takeover of Norloch and the darkness of Sharma, the immortal being who is trying to enslave Annar. While Cadvan searched in the libraries for anything about The Tree Song, While Maerad furthers her studies in the way of bards, enchanting, healing, and music. Enkir, the first bard This is a good continuation of the story. There is more action in this story and we see the darker side of Maerad. I copy the summary below, this is not from my hand.... Maerad and Cadvan flee Busk to escape the hostile takeover of Norloch and the darkness of Sharma, the immortal being who is trying to enslave Annar. While Cadvan searched in the libraries for anything about The Tree Song, While Maerad furthers her studies in the way of bards, enchanting, healing, and music. Enkir, the first bard of Norloch who betrayed Pellinor, one of many bard schools also where Maerad is from, sends out word that anyone who is hiding Maerad and Cadvan will be declared outcasts. Nerili, first bard of Busk, tricks Enkir into thinking that Maerad and Cadvan are not there. Spies in Busk reveal to Enkir that they are there so Maerad and Cadvan go up into the mountains to hide. They stayed there for a short period of time then when go through Gwalhain Pass to Ossin. They rode out of Ossin and stumble into an impoverished village where a sickness has killed most inhabitants. While walking through the ruins Cadvan cures a small child of the sickness. They continued North in search of the Tree Song, they bump into two other bards who think that Maerad and Cadvan are betrayers of the light. One of the bards stuns Maerad but Maerad \u2018s powers in self-defense killed the bard. Cadvan has the other bard forget who did it and the bard and corpse leave. Cadvan is furious with Maerad for killing a fellow bard who is merely ignorant of the current situation. They travel for some time up north not speaking to each other. While battling an Iridugul, an avalanche crushes Cadvan and Maerad is swamped with grief. Maerad plays the lute that the Adrina, the Elidhu queen, gave her. Adrina comes to Maerad\u2019s call and speaks to her about how love is wasted. Maerad blacks out and finds herself in a cave with an old woman feeding her. The old woman is Pilanel, the same religion that her father is from. Mirka nurses her to health and gives her a necklace and directions on how to get to Pilanel. Maerad journeys there and gains entrance with the necklace Mirka had given her. Maerad finds her father\u2019s sister and tells her what happened. She asked her aunt for help and she gladly agrees. Maerad stays in Pilanel for a couple weeks. Then with the guidance of her cousin and his dogs they leave Pilanel going up north looking for the Tree Song. As they sled up north they are captured by Jussacks. Her cousin is killed but Maerad is taken to the Winter King\u2019s Palace. The Winter King drains most of Maerad\u2019s power as traps her in a false reality. Maerad breaks free from the false reality and The Winter King requests her into his throne room. She argues about the difference between good and evil and ends up unsure of herself. She gets tired and goes back to her room. When she wakes up she eats and travels to the throne room. Arkan (the Winter King) lectures her about how humans are frail and if they knew the truth then they would be miserable. He exposes how half The Tree Song is on her lyre. Maerad goes back to her room and untwists her emotions. The next day She explores the Palace. She finds herself on the roof looking over the desert of ice and snow. Arkan appears on the roof beside her. He asks her to show him her lyre. When Maerad wakes she brings her lyre to the throne room. The Winter King sings her the Tree Song. Arkan tells her his wish that she be his queen. Maerad is scared and rushes back to her room. Maerad sees a wolf with the same eyes as Adrina staring at her and speaks to her in wolf tongue. Maerad follows her directions and with Adrina\u2019s help turns into a wolf. She travels as a wolf into a cave that hosts a pack of wolves. She travels with the wolves and then alone to the remains of Pellinor. Maerad is astonished to find Cadvan there. She transforms back into a human and tells Cadvan what happened. Cadvan tells her that he wasn\u2019t crushed in the avalanche and how he got to Pilanel two weeks after her and how he wasn\u2019t allowed to go after her. He tells her how a wolf spoke to him in his dream; her words were \u201cSeek the Fire Lilly in her birthplace.\u201d So he did. That concludes the summary of The Riddle. ...more Christopher Booker\u2019s The Seven Basic Plots suggest that the more different archetypal narratives a novel includes the richer it becomes (Booker admires The Lord of the Rings for this), and on this basis Croggon\u2019s Pellinor series must be rich indeed. The Riddle includes the themes of the Quest, Overcoming the Monster, Voyage and Return and Tragedy, while it is only a matter of time and two more novels before we must surely encounter Rags to Riches, Comedy (in the classical sense) and Rebirth. On Christopher Booker\u2019s The Seven Basic Plots suggest that the more different archetypal narratives a novel includes the richer it becomes (Booker admires The Lord of the Rings for this), and on this basis Croggon\u2019s Pellinor series must be rich indeed. The Riddle includes the themes of the Quest, Overcoming the Monster, Voyage and Return and Tragedy, while it is only a matter of time and two more novels before we must surely encounter Rags to Riches, Comedy (in the classical sense) and Rebirth. On this understanding alone The Riddle is very satisfying, even as a middle volume in a sequence. But novel writing is more than just a matter of narrative structure. First and foremost must come characterisation. Maerad, the young heroine of the tale, would, in a modern context, be just another petulant teenager, a trait which some reviewers have found annoying but is absolutely right, not just for plot reasons but because that\u2019s exactly what teenagers are normally about. While she is the Chosen One with innate mysterious powers (and you could argue that this is an annoying motif in itself), she still has to rely on her human resourcefulness, her stubbornness, her quick-wittedness and her physical strength. I liked also the roundedness of many of the other characters, even those who appear for such a short time, and even those who don\u2019t support Maerad\u2019s cause. Other important elements in a story are a sense of place and time, and here Croggon has thought long and hard about the nature of her secondary world. The journey Maerad takes is one we take too, from cold to warmth, from mountains to plains, from habitation to habitation, because her descriptions give us exactly what we require to imagine and sensually feel ourselves there. There is also a clear sense of the passage of time, marked by key dates in the changing seasons (the book ends on midwinter\u2019s day, for example) and Maerad\u2019s monthly periods arriving at the time of the full moon. Finally, Croggon\u2019s theme is about words (as the title of the book hints). Poetry (real poetry, mind you, not doggerel verse) suffuses both prose and song in her text, recounted in English; and for the linguist too there is much delight in her creation of the languages of Pellinor: the names of peoples, of things, of places, of concepts. And let us not forget the crucial dialogues that Maerad has with key figures in the story; for those who like their fantasy dished up with lashings of action this may be a weakness, but for those who love words, the to-and-fro of conversations and the subsequent conflicts or resolutions that arise from them this must surely be a strength. A word about Cadvan: as a wizard figure he has resonances with both Gandalf and Dumbledore here, though it is clear that we are to think of him, despite the discrepancy between the aging of Bards and ordinary mortals, as a relatively young man. Like those other two wizards of modern writing he too disappears, and like them his dramatic loss through violence must be felt deeply by the reader, but it is for the reader to find out whether the loss is temporary, as with Gandalf, or permanent, as with Dumbledore. ...more I loved The Riddle , Croggon's second in the Pellinor series, even more than the first. For one, she worked through that tricky issue of pacing that plagued her first book. Admittedly, The Riddle is best read and followed in large chunks of time -- it's not the kind of story that's easy to pick up in little 20 page snatches -- but there's still a much steadier, more enjoyable pace happening here. And second, while Croggon convinced me to give Maerad a chance to be enjoyable in the first book, she I loved The Riddle , Croggon's second in the Pellinor series, even more than the first. For one, she worked through that tricky issue of pacing that plagued her first book. Admittedly, The Riddle is best read and followed in large chunks of time -- it's not the kind of story that's easy to pick up in little 20 page snatches -- but there's still a much steadier, more enjoyable pace happening here. And second, while Croggon convinced me to give Maerad a chance to be enjoyable in the first book, she convinced me to absolutely love her in the second. In this novel, Maerad is separated from her brother Hem and travels with Cadvan far north, in search of the Treesong. Here's where I feared the story would veer off into tedious mysticism, and we all can think of fantasies that have, in our opinions, fallen into that trap (poor Christopher Paolini; talk about your truly fantastic adventure story mired down in hundreds of pages of weird elf lore). But instead, Croggon keeps the story fresh by adding tangible realities to the Treesong quest. The song's secrets are hidden in an actual nomadic people -- as opposed to tapestries woven with gossamer threads, you know what I mean -- that she must travel to and win over enough to gain an audience with their unusual Bard and his wolf den. Also, Maerad does a lot of growing up in this novel that's more tangible than book 1, where she faced such relatable challenges as being instated as a Bard (and I'm still not sure what that meant). Here, she still has to suffer through some of Cadvan's Ben Franklinish pearls of wisdom, but her relationship with him gains a reality and a clarity. They fight; things are awkward, then very painful. The question of her own evil isn't a black and white fantasy thing (fear not, no evil forces possess her), but rather a question of the internal secrets of her mind and her heart, that she has to decide to alternately control or release. In this way, it becomes a sort of coming-of-age story, even if it is complete with Ice Witches and wolf spirits, and Maerad's journey gains a vividness and a poignancy that made this book a wonderful sequel. ...more I'm commenting on the entire series as a whole, not just this book. I liked this series and might read it again at some point. The writing is good, the plot is (mostly) well paced, there are plenty of likable (albeit predictable) characters, and some interesting world/myth building. The appendix in The Singing touches on the background of a few characters. I would have enjoyed it if those details had been integrated into the story. The problem with the majority of fantasy novels is that they all d I'm commenting on the entire series as a whole, not just this book. I liked this series and might read it again at some point. The writing is good, the plot is (mostly) well paced, there are plenty of likable (albeit predictable) characters, and some interesting world/myth building. The appendix in The Singing touches on the background of a few characters. I would have enjoyed it if those details had been integrated into the story. The problem with the majority of fantasy novels is that they all draw from the same pool, and have a familiar deja-vu quality. This series is no exception, right down to the obligatory bowls of stew, the orphaned boy, the battle between light/good and dark/evil, and predictably (view spoiler) [concludes with a sacrifice for the good of the world (hide spoiler) ] . I found myself comparing this series to other books frequently. Just a few similarities to works by J.R.R. Tolkien : * Lay of Andomian and Beruldh = The Lay of Beren and Luthien * Andomian sounds like Undomiel * Darsor, Lord among horses = Shadowfax, Chief of the Mearas * Hull = Ringwraith * You shall not pass (Ch. XXVI, The Riddle) = You can not pass (Ch. V, Fellowship ) or You shall not pass (movie) There are many similarities to other books as well. Maybe I've read one too many fantasy novels, so I'm seeing coincidences where others would not. It's clear that the author's aim was to create a multi-layered world with a rich history, and to that end this series is fairly successful. ...more This particular book had a few more...'boring spots' than the last one, yet was more exciting than The Naming...maybe this is because i like the whole Maerad+Arkan=<3? thing ( but it wasn't profound or a big deal really ). i liked the fact that this book takes place in an entirely different environment than the last one, seeing Maerad travel through the icy cold of the North and the seas of the...West (i guess)?? I hope the third one will keep that up. I am also afraid at Maerads moods..is the This particular book had a few more...'boring spots' than the last one, yet was more exciting than The Naming...maybe this is because i like the whole Maerad+Arkan=<3? thing ( but it wasn't profound or a big deal really ). i liked the fact that this book takes place in an entirely different environment than the last one, seeing Maerad travel through the icy cold of the North and the seas of the...West (i guess)?? I hope the third one will keep that up. I am also afraid at Maerads moods..is there really something Dark inside her, as so many have claimed?? That would sure make an interesting twist... i am so excited to read the next one! hopefully i get it before i go to Indiana...*twiddles thumbs* and i swear. if Cadvan and Maerad don't fall in love by the close of book four... ...more \"The Riddle\" Maerad had been on a quest to find something called the Treesong which had relations to the Splitsong. On a search to find part of the Song Maerad had to venture to Murask with Cadvan. Things went wrong, however, when earth and snow elementals attacked the two Bards. Cadvan was lost and Maerad on her way to freezing. Maerad however started to play a small song on her reed flute which made her ancestor, Ardina, appear and save her from the icy hand of death. Once in Murask, Maerad her \"The Riddle\" Maerad had been on a quest to find something called the Treesong which had relations to the Splitsong. On a search to find part of the Song Maerad had to venture to Murask with Cadvan. Things went wrong, however, when earth and snow elementals attacked the two Bards. Cadvan was lost and Maerad on her way to freezing. Maerad however started to play a small song on her reed flute which made her ancestor, Ardina, appear and save her from the icy hand of death. Once in Murask, Maerad herself feels that she is just now experiencing the world when she finds even more family among the Pilanel, a traveling people who never stay in one place for too long. After a week there, Maerad and her newfound cousin take off for the people known as the Wise-Kindred. Weeks over the snow and ice of the north, the two finally found the people they were looking for. The Kindred helped them along and sent Maerad to a man who was gifted with the Speech though he was not a Bard. After she left with her cousin, Maerad gets the feeling they're being followed. It turns out that Jussacks, people who worship the Winterking, were tracking them on the Ice Kings orders. With just about everyone she loved dead, Maerad stayed at the Winterkings fortress for a time when Ardina came and got her out by telling her that she could change herself into an animal. Ardina and Maerad ran as wolves until they reached the border to Annar. When they were rested and ready to leave Maerad was left with another wolf and his pack; the same wolves who were with the man in the Kindreds' land. They raced into Annar where they all branched off and left Maerad to herself. Then Maerad found the ruins of her home, Pellinor, and a strange man inside. Once she changed herself back into a human, Maerad found that Cadvan was the strange man. The main characters are Maerad, Cadvan, The Nameless, Arkan,and Enkir. Maerad is the Foretold and is held to a prophecy where she must defeat The Nameless. Cadvan is a Bard who accompanies Maerad on her quest. The Nameless is an evil being who was once human but now an unnatural being who does not age or die by normal means. Arkan is the Winterking who is in search of his Song and Maerad. Enkir is a pawn of The Nameless and is the murderer of Maerad's family. The book is medieval based with no modern technology but magic exists. The characters travel between cities and villages but never stay in them for long. I liked the book a lot so I recommend it to anyone who reads books for fun and enjoys an adventure. Its interesting and mind grabbing so it shifts the readers attention to it . ...more Recently I decided to re-read the Books of Pellinor series by <---A>Alison Croggon</---A>. Currently, I am on Book 2 The Riddle. This re-read adventure was mostly inspired by the fact that I had received the final 4th Book in the series as a present at Christmas time and when I finally got around to picking it up to put an end to the series I realized I had no clue what had happened in the previous books. This is one of the reasons I try to shy away from series books until most if not all of the books have a Recently I decided to re-read the Books of Pellinor series by Alison Croggon. Currently, I am on Book 2 The Riddle. This re-read adventure was mostly inspired by the fact that I had received the final 4th Book in the series as a present at Christmas time and when I finally got around to picking it up to put an end to the series I realized I had no clue what had happened in the previous books. This is one of the reasons I try to shy away from series books until most if not all of the books have already been published. It eliminates the gap period in between books and the potential for completely losing all track of the plot lines. Anywho, back to my reading experience. Upon a second read of the first two books I discovered: 1. While the plots are painfully reminiscent of LOTR or other children's lit fantasy series like Percy Jackson or Harry Potter (young hero who thought they were a nobody most of their life discover they have a destiny greater than they could have ever imagined...to save the world against some nameless/faceless evil who everyone thought was gone but is making a greater comeback tour), I do really enjoy them because of the slightly refreshing twist that the main protagonist is female. 2. While I do enjoy the plots, at times it feels that Croggon is trying way too hard to show her readers who many GRE vocab words she can remember and use in a sentence and 3. Again while I do enjoy the plots, Croggon needs to remember showing is more powerful than telling, meaning you don't have to beat me over the head with awkward, painfully obvious declarative statements that tell me Maraed is all-powerful, upset, angry or confused; you have to paint me a picture with flowing adjectives, smooth dialogue and the unfold of plot scenes. Nevertheless, despite their flaws, I recommend anyone interested in young adult fantasy novel series to take a peak at the Books of Pellinor series. ...more Finding the truth of who you really are. In the second book of the Books of Pellinor Series, Croggon spells out the long and troubling hardships of Maerad yet again. Focusing more on the personal battles Maerad must face rather than physical this time, she begins to lose control over her Bard powers, and begins to doubt herself as time goes on. Cadvan and she must travel in search of the Treesong--not knowing what it is, nor where it may be, only knowing that it is somehow the key to saving the L Finding the truth of who you really are. In the second book of the Books of Pellinor Series, Croggon spells out the long and troubling hardships of Maerad yet again. Focusing more on the personal battles Maerad must face rather than physical this time, she begins to lose control over her Bard powers, and begins to doubt herself as time goes on. Cadvan and she must travel in search of the Treesong--not knowing what it is, nor where it may be, only knowing that it is somehow the key to saving the Light. Not only must she face against dark forces, but the Light also have a bounty over her head; Light is thought to show signs of corruption, feeding to the dark seeds of Bards' minds. Lost in the cold winters of the North, she searches for the Treesong in fruitless, regrettable agony. (I will not share anymore, as I wouldn't want to give any away). Overall, I liked the second book a lot! I won't lie, I found the first one to be more entertaining to read, but I love how Maerad, while a strong female character (which I like), still has to face personal hardships within her mind, and she cannot simply lock how she feels away. She is an entirely believable character that I can't help but be fascinated by. I'm left wondering what's to come next! It was a thoroughly enjoyable read, and left me crying in some parts, I was so absorbed into the novel. I cannot wait to read the ending to this trilogy and hope it is as good as the first two that I so loved! ...more Did I enjoy it? Yes. It picked up directly where The Naming left off, and was a satisfying continuation of the story. Would I read it again? Possibly. I wouldn't rule it out. It's one that I would probably go in and read sections of again. Who would I recommend it to? Fantasy fans, if you like Tamora Pierce, Mercedes Lackey, Tolkein, or other authors along those lines you'll probably like this, it's got a somewhat similar feel to it. Any other thoughts? This started out slowly again. I predicted th Did I enjoy it? Yes. It picked up directly where The Naming left off, and was a satisfying continuation of the story. Would I read it again? Possibly. I wouldn't rule it out. It's one that I would probably go in and read sections of again. Who would I recommend it to? Fantasy fans, if you like Tamora Pierce, Mercedes Lackey, Tolkein, or other authors along those lines you'll probably like this, it's got a somewhat similar feel to it. Any other thoughts? This started out slowly again. I predicted that since this was the second book in the series the plot would pick up, since the first book was a lot of world building. I did find that was the case, but it also seemed like it took about 200 pages before that plot actually began to pick up. I enjoyed the second half of the book quite a bit. Now that the basic premise is established the plot has begun to deviate from the standard fantasy tropes and grow into its own being. The series as a whole so far hasn't been the best fantasy series I've ever read, but it's been an easy and engaging read. I look forward to seeing what Hem and Saliman have been up to in the next book. ...more Mixed feelings about this one. After the first 150 pages I was sorely tempted to give up. The story wasn't progressing and I was getting sick of reading about two characters wandering across varying landscapes while refusing to speak to each other. It felt like I was reading a travel guide instead of a novel. Then, spectacularly, the story changed and Maerad found herself without Cadvan and forced to continue her quest alone. This is where the story really picked up and I found myself glad I kept Mixed feelings about this one. After the first 150 pages I was sorely tempted to give up. The story wasn't progressing and I was getting sick of reading about two characters wandering across varying landscapes while refusing to speak to each other. It felt like I was reading a travel guide instead of a novel. Then, spectacularly, the story changed and Maerad found herself without Cadvan and forced to continue her quest alone. This is where the story really picked up and I found myself glad I kept at it. I think the book would have been a lot better had their separation occurred earlier, or some of the many flowery passages describing hedgerows and streams could have been omitted. Croggon writes some stunning, poetic prose but, although pretty, it really takes away from the action. So, half a star for the first half of the book, and 2.5 for the second half. ...more The story continues, and it does so well. We see new lands, meet new people and flirt with villains. I really enjoyed the book, and it was a bit different from the first. I think it was less \"Tolkienish\", but it still retained that old-fashioned camaraderie, that authors like Tolkien infused in their books. Still lots of travel, which I really love when done well, and in this case it is. And of course more of Maerad and Cadvan, who turn out to be really well-shaped characters, and became favouri The story continues, and it does so well. We see new lands, meet new people and flirt with villains. I really enjoyed the book, and it was a bit different from the first. I think it was less \"Tolkienish\", but it still retained that old-fashioned camaraderie, that authors like Tolkien infused in their books. Still lots of travel, which I really love when done well, and in this case it is. And of course more of Maerad and Cadvan, who turn out to be really well-shaped characters, and became favourites of mine. Again, nothing exceptionally new here, but reading this book gives you the warm feeling of a good tale. ...more I had enjoyed reading The Naming far better than this book and finished the first pretty quickly, however I just couldn't get into this second of the series. Croggon continues Maerad and Cadvan's quest but it feels like one LONG continuous journey that really isn't getting anywhere. So much of the book is \"let's go here\" and then \"what we need isn't here, let's go there\" and so on. It got to the point where I wanted something important to happen and nothing did. I know that the end of this book i I had enjoyed reading The Naming far better than this book and finished the first pretty quickly, however I just couldn't get into this second of the series. Croggon continues Maerad and Cadvan's quest but it feels like one LONG continuous journey that really isn't getting anywhere. So much of the book is \"let's go here\" and then \"what we need isn't here, let's go there\" and so on. It got to the point where I wanted something important to happen and nothing did. I know that the end of this book is supposed to get better, but I just couldn't bring myself to finish it, not when there are so many other good fantasy reads out there. ...more That awkward moment when you thought the main character was falling in love with the man you were hoping for. Oh, and let's not forget he's 21 years older than her. But, at least he's not an asshole! But guess what? SHE FALLS IN LOVE WITH AN ASSHOLE. Oh, and he's a king. But, not just any king. He's the king of winter . <--(Of course, no wonder he's such a jackass. The cold must've chapped his ass over the years.) [Quick and short review before I re-read and re-review at a later date: Again, I have little memory of the singular book story, but as a whole I know I enjoyed it. Felt it was quite a quick read, but with a bit more depth than a lot of escapist fantasy. No memory of the characters, either, though it was years ago.] Finished The Riddle this week and enjoyed it as much as the first book. It was less Tolkien-esque than it's predecessor and really increased the tension in the plot and between the characters. It was a good read and I've already started on Book 3. It's lived up to my expectations so far. Well done. Exciting story and beautiful descriptions. The story moves slowly for my tastes, though. Just as good if not better than when I first read these books. Still one of my favourite series.... Amazing series! I just can't get enough of it. Croggon is a wonderful writer. Her descriptions of the landscapes made me long to travel and her descriptions of the meals made me quite hungry! This book was darker than The Naming, but I that was almost a necessity and helped develop Maerad's character. The latter part of the book I was unsure about; I feel I'll need to read the next books to decide. But overall it was beautiful storytelling with a nice mixture of plot and description and enough twists to keep you from boredom. The main thing Croggon is a wonderful writer. Her descriptions of the landscapes made me long to travel and her descriptions of the meals made me quite hungry! This book was darker than The Naming, but I that was almost a necessity and helped develop Maerad's character. The latter part of the book I was unsure about; I feel I'll need to read the next books to decide. But overall it was beautiful storytelling with a nice mixture of plot and description and enough twists to keep you from boredom. The main thing about this book is that it's so unhurried, which is very much in contrast to most YA books of the day. It's not a page-turner necessarily; you're supposed to curl up by the fire with this book, not flip through it as quickly as possible. The storytelling was long and arching rather than short and jagged. And I appreciated that calmness that was essentially, \"We'll get there when we get there. Enjoy the journey.\" ...more The first book got me excited for this series and I felt cheerfulness and gloom were balanced nicely. It was different with this one. Even though the tone picked up where it left, the farther the story progressed, the more it made me feel glum and sad. I still finished it rather quickly, since the storyline and the main character remain interesting to me, however I despair a little when faced with the fact that there are another two books to wade through until the conclusion. I will probably nee The first book got me excited for this series and I felt cheerfulness and gloom were balanced nicely. It was different with this one. Even though the tone picked up where it left, the farther the story progressed, the more it made me feel glum and sad. I still finished it rather quickly, since the storyline and the main character remain interesting to me, however I despair a little when faced with the fact that there are another two books to wade through until the conclusion. I will probably need a bit of a break and finish the series at another time. Apart from the general atmosphere, another dislike of mine was the development between Maerad and the Ice King, it felt unnatural and out of place. ...more Very nice. It's exactly as I expected after the first one. Seems to play more on Maerd's feelings then her actual powers but other then that it is good. The only complaint is that Croggon seems to only introduce her cousin and fathers family just to take them away from her and to find out the the other half of the treesong is in her lyre. All that sacrifice for something they always had. The series is very nice and magical. Weh, what a story. So beayoudeeful. ;o; In a way, I enjoyed this book more than the first. ...I think? I'm just glad this series is finally starting to grow on me. It had a slow start, but now it's just.... eeeeee~ I have warm feelings. Cadvan and Maerad... Go get married already, please and thank you. Another amazing book! This story is getting better and better! Great recommendation for readers looking for a book with a strong female lead, but without romance. Loving this series ! An excellent second book in the series... I missed this. SO GOOD. Yeah, I really have a way with words, don't I? Anyway, this book was fraught with emotion and action and magic and beauty. One thing of particular significance is: there is an event in the book, about halfway through, that completely wrenched my heart out (I'm not going to say what because I don't want to spoil it). And while I was reading that chapter hungrily and desperately, I found myself thinking, you know what, I think *this* An excellent second book in the series... I missed this. SO GOOD. Yeah, I really have a way with words, don't I? Anyway, this book was fraught with emotion and action and magic and beauty. One thing of particular significance is: there is an event in the book, about halfway through, that completely wrenched my heart out (I'm not going to say what because I don't want to spoil it). And while I was reading that chapter hungrily and desperately, I found myself thinking, you know what, I think *this* will probably happen later. And my prediction did come true. The thing is, usually I don't like when something in a book is predictable, but in this case, the predictable thing was something I REALLY WANTED TO HAPPEN. So at the end of the fulfilment of my prediction, I couldn't decide whether to be disappointed that such a huge happenstance had been predictable, or overjoyed that it was true. I think I'm going with the second option. This book again, just like the the first one, took a little bit of getting used to. At first the writing style was slightly annoying but after the first few chapters I got over it and began to adore it again. ANDYESALSO, I believe this book includes one of the best creation stories I have read in a very long time, which I will now recount to you here: \"Once, long ago, when time was an egg, before there was above and below, or before and behind, or deep or through or wide, there was a Song. There was no voice to sing it, and there was no ear to hear it, and the Song was lonely in the nowhere and nothing that everything was. For what is a Song without a voice and an ear? \"Now it happened, as you know, that the world was made, and the sky spilled over the nowhere like a bolt of blue silk, and then the stars tumbled over it as if someone had dropped countless gems, and the earth was solid beneath it, rock and iron and fire. And the earth loved the sky, and the sky loved the earth, but they could not touch each other, no matter how they tried. And how they tried! And both began to weep from sorrow, and from the sky came the first rain, and the earth filled up with rivers and seas, and where the rain touched its fire, great steams went up and made the clouds and mists, and out of the clouds and mists were born the Elidhu, the oldest children of time, and then the trees and the silent and still plants of the earth, with their flowers like trumpets and their leaves like lyres. But the Elidhu had neither voices nor ears. \"Now, the Song said to itself, at last their may be a voice to speak and an ear to hear. So it came out of the nowhere into the now, and slipped into the veins of the Elidhu, as if it were a shoal of minnows slipping into a stream, and each Elidhu felt the Song within it like a shudder of life, and the sounds of the world burst in on them: the fall of the rain, and the sough of the sea, and the endless sighing of the wind through the green trees. And they opened their mouths in wonder, and so it was the Song leaped out of their mouths, and at last became itself. And the Song was happy for a very long time.\" Ankil put down the boot and picked up another. \"Well, it happened after a long age that a shadow fell upon the world, and there were great wars and so death entered the world. And there was much suffering for all creatures: the plants and the beasts and the humans and the Elidhu. But the shadow was beaten back, and then there was a long peace. All this time the Song lived in the Elidhu and was happy, although it found that the world was more complex and more sad than it had thought. And so the Song changed, and became more beautiful as it changed, for the shadow and death entered into the Song and made it bright and dark and high and deep. And the voices of the Elidhu lifted in joy, for they loved the beauty of the Song. \"But it happened that a king arose, and he heard the Song, and he was overborne by longing for its loveliness. He could not sleep and he could not eat for thinking of the Song, and each day that he could not have the Song for himself was to him an eternity of dust. And one day he stole the song from the Elidhu. \"But the Elidhu would not let it go, and the Song split in two, with a terrible noise, like the sound of the whole world cracking, and one half went south and one half went north. And when it split, the bright went one way, and the dark went another. And ever since the world has been twin, and the Song has been unhappy.\" There was a long silence, apart from Ankil's brushing. \"Is that it?\" asked Maerad. \"Yes,\" said Ankil, nodding. \"That is it.\" --The Riddle, by Alison Croggon, pg. 92-94 And I should also mention that I really love the poems in these books as well! They are also beautiful. Anyway, that's about it for this review. I can't wait to read the third book of Pellinor! [there was a sneak peak in the back of this one and it was lovely] ...more The Riddle was my favorite so far in the series. Summery below. May include spoilers. Summery: Maerad and Cadvan flee Busk to escape the hostile takeover of Norloch and the darkness of Sharma, the immortal being who is trying to enslave Annar. While Cadvan searched in the libraries for anything about The Tree Song, While Maerad furthers her studies in the way of bards, enchanting, healing, and music. Enkir, the first bard of Norloch who betrayed Pellinor, one of many bard schools also where Maer The Riddle was my favorite so far in the series. Summery below. May include spoilers. Summery: Maerad and Cadvan flee Busk to escape the hostile takeover of Norloch and the darkness of Sharma, the immortal being who is trying to enslave Annar. While Cadvan searched in the libraries for anything about The Tree Song, While Maerad furthers her studies in the way of bards, enchanting, healing, and music. Enkir, the first bard of Norloch who betrayed Pellinor, one of many bard schools also where Maerad is from, sends out word that anyone who is hiding Maerad and Cadvan will be declared outcasts. Nerili, first bard of Busk, tricks Enkir into thinking that Maerad and Cadvan are not there. Spies in Busk reveal to Enkir that they are there so Maerad and Cadvan go up into the mountains to hide. They stayed there for a short period of time then when go through Gwalhain Pass to Ossin. They rode out of Ossin and stumble into an impoverished village where a sickness has killed most inhabitants. While walking through the ruins Cadvan cures a small child of the sickness. They continued North in search of the Tree Song, they bump into two other bards who think that Maerad and Cadvan are betrayers of the light. One of the bards stuns Maerad but Maerad \u2018s powers in self-defense killed the bard. Cadvan has the other bard forget who did it and the bard and corpse leave. Cadvan is furious with Maerad for killing a fellow bard who is merely ignorant of the current situation. They travel for some time up north not speaking to each other. While battling an Iridugul, an avalanche crushes Cadvan and Maerad is swamped with grief. Maerad plays the lute that the Adrina, the Elidhu queen, gave her. Adrina comes to Maerad\u2019s call and speaks to her about how love is wasted. Maerad blacks out and finds herself in a cave with an old woman feeding her. The old woman is Pilanel, the same religion that her father is from. Mirka nurses her to health and gives her a necklace and directions on how to get to Pilanel. Maerad journeys there and gains entrance with the necklace Mirka had given her. Maerad finds her father\u2019s sister and tells her what happened. She asked her aunt for help and she gladly agrees. Maerad stays in Pilanel for a couple weeks. Then with the guidance of her cousin and his dogs they leave Pilanel going up north looking for the Tree Song. As they sled up north they are captured by Jussacks. Her cousin is killed but Maerad is taken to the Winter King\u2019s Palace. The Winter King drains most of Maerad\u2019s power as traps her in a false reality. Maerad breaks free from the false reality and The Winter King requests her into his throne room. She argues about the difference between good and evil and ends up unsure of herself. She gets tired and goes back to her room. When she wakes up she eats and travels to the throne room. Arkan (the Winter King) lectures her about how humans are frail and if they knew the truth then they would be miserable. He exposes how half The Tree Song is on her lyre. Maerad goes back to her room and untwists her emotions. The next day She explores the Palace. She finds herself on the roof looking over the desert of ice and snow. Arkan appears on the roof beside her. He asks her to show him her lyre. When Maerad wakes she brings her lyre to the throne room. The Winter King sings her the Tree Song. Arkan tells her his wish that she be his queen. Maerad is scared and rushes back to her room. Maerad sees a wolf with the same eyes as Adrina staring at her and speaks to her in wolf tongue. Maerad follows her directions and with Adrina\u2019s help turns into a wolf. She travels as a wolf into a cave that hosts a pack of wolves. She travels with the wolves and then alone to the remains of Pellinor. Maerad is astonished to find Cadvan there. She transforms back into a human and tells Cadvan what happened. Cadvan tells her that he wasn\u2019t crushed in the avalanche and how he got to Pilanel two weeks after her and how he wasn\u2019t allowed to go after her. He tells her how a wolf spoke to him in his dream; her words were \u201cSeek the Fire Lilly in her birthplace.\u201d So he did. That concludes the summary of The Riddle. ...more", "Title": "The Riddle"},
