{"Comments": "I could not put this book down.<---F> Even after I finished it</---F>. Fantastic. Great characters. Loved following these boys. for me, i found 'glue' to be an epic novel. 556 pages that i read in 48 hours. i don't remember anything about those days other than totally immersing myself in this novel. i really hadn't felt truly excited by a novel in a long time, although i'm often reading things i enjoy. it was everything about it that made me really love what i was reading. the characters start off as children, not really aware of their surroundings [like most children who are more concerned with playing with friends than for me, i found 'glue' to be an epic novel. 556 pages that i read in 48 hours. i don't remember anything about those days other than totally immersing myself in this novel. i really hadn't felt truly excited by a novel in a long time, although i'm often reading things i enjoy. it was everything about it that made me really love what i was reading. the characters start off as children, not really aware of their surroundings [like most children who are more concerned with playing with friends than real life:] and the novel spans, a life time for some and an end of an era -or two- for others. i have to give a special mention to andrew galloway who is by far my favourite character in this book. poor gally, i love him so. there are themes carried over from 'trainspotting' [but not so much with the anarchist lifestyle.:] but 'glue' is no poor-mans sequel. it holds well on its own, with its own life [although not its own world. some of these characters find their way into the 'trainspotting' sequel 'porno'.:] it's a novel with something for everyone, universal truths and down in the dirt entertainment. it is a irvine welsh novel and if you've picked up something he's written before then that should give you an idea of the kind of thing you're in for. it is a harsh reality, with snarling and bumbling real life characters and a pull that will not let you put it down until you finish every word. ...more If you don't want to read a book filled with words that are written so that when you read them you are pronouncing words in a Scottish accent then this and many of his books are not the books for you. If you don't mind that then go for it, it only takes about a chapter to become proficient in reading his work. I personally loved the story. It's sort of the prequel to Trainspotting. This book introduces you to many of those characters as young boys but the book is not about them but other young b If you don't want to read a book filled with words that are written so that when you read them you are pronouncing words in a Scottish accent then this and many of his books are not the books for you. If you don't mind that then go for it, it only takes about a chapter to become proficient in reading his work. I personally loved the story. It's sort of the prequel to Trainspotting. This book introduces you to many of those characters as young boys but the book is not about them but other young boys growing up in Scotland with their own set of issues and insecurities. Welsh is a colorful writer giving his characters very full lives making you love some characters and loathing others. ...more \u017divot i odrastanje u Edinburghu kroz 70-e, 80-e i 90-e godine. Seks i ljubav i seks bez ljubavi,<---M> nogomet i navijanje i huligani</---M>, droga, siroma\u0161tvo i borba. Ali najvi\u0161e od svega prijateljstvo i odanost koja prati prijateljstvo. <---A>Irvine Welsh</---A> oslikava \u017eivot \u0160kotske iz predgra\u0111a i radi to majstorski dinami\u010dno i onako kako to samo on zna. Nakon Trainspottinga, jo\u0161 jedna genijalna knjiga koja odu\u0161evljava i na koju sam se navukla ve\u0107 nakon prvih nekoliko stranica. \"Life is a dynamic rather than a static process, and when we don't change it kills us. It's not running away, it's moving on.\" 5/5 Stars! This has become my most favourite novel to ever exist. I first read this quite some time ago, and liked it. I can say, though, upon rereading <+++>Glue</+++> that I found myself tethered far more fiercely to the lives within the pages than I was bargaining for. <+++>Glue</+++> is about four guys who are friends and grow up. It also has a lot to do with their families, relationships \"Life is a dynamic rather than a static process, and when we don't change it kills us. It's not running away, it's moving on.\" 5/5 Stars! This has become my most favourite novel to ever exist. I first read this quite some time ago, and liked it. I can say, though, upon rereading Glue that I found myself tethered far more fiercely to the lives within the pages than I was bargaining for. Glue is about four guys who are friends and grow up. It also has a lot to do with their families, relationships, enemies and so much more. It's quite a remarkable read, in that it perfectly illustrates how much of a struggle it is to grow up, truly. Getting older is shit, and Irvine Welsh doesn't shy away from that. I love this damn novel. It makes me feel all the feels. ...more Glue prati \u010detiri prijatelja iz Edinburgha kroz \u010detiri desetlje\u0107a njihova prijateljstva, od po\u010detka u sedamdesetima, dok su jo\u0161 bili samo klinci, prolazi se kroz burne osamdesete kada su bili divlji tinejd\u017eeri, devedesetih kad su se samo htjeli zabavljati na eksovima i u kona\u010dnici se dolazi do dvije tisu\u0107itih u kojima su najbolje godine definitivno iza njih. Svaka ta cjelina djeluje skoro kao zasebna pri\u010da, ali radnja ionako nije toliko bitna u ovom romanu. Umjesto toga, u fokusu su tu uvijek pr Glue prati \u010detiri prijatelja iz Edinburgha kroz \u010detiri desetlje\u0107a njihova prijateljstva, od po\u010detka u sedamdesetima, dok su jo\u0161 bili samo klinci, prolazi se kroz burne osamdesete kada su bili divlji tinejd\u017eeri, devedesetih kad su se samo htjeli zabavljati na eksovima i u kona\u010dnici se dolazi do dvije tisu\u0107itih u kojima su najbolje godine definitivno iza njih. Svaka ta cjelina djeluje skoro kao zasebna pri\u010da, ali radnja ionako nije toliko bitna u ovom romanu. Umjesto toga, u fokusu su tu uvijek prijatelji i njihovo odrastanje, njihovi uspjesi i padovi. Uz sve to, Glue je ipak tradicionalan Welshov roman; droga, alkohol, seks, humor, vulgarnost, nasilje... Ali iako se ovdje nalazi sve \u0161to volim kao fan Welsha, u cijelu tu kombinaciju ovaj put dolazi i konstantan osje\u0107aj nostalgije, emocije zbog koje mi je ovaj rad jo\u0161 i sna\u017eniji od ostalih njegovih koje sam imao priliku pro\u010ditati. Pa onda kada sam zavr\u0161avao knjigu stvarno sam imao osje\u0107aj da sam s njima ve\u0107 40 godina, usprkos tome \u0161to je knjiga duga\u010dka samo 450 stranica i zapravo pokriva samo jako mali dio \u017eivota \u010detvorice \u0161kotskih prijatelja. ...more This novel follows several decades of the lives of four Scottish friends, from their high school days in Edinburgh until their thirties, when circumstances have put them each on separate paths. In essence, this is a story about life growing up in \"the scheme\" (<---B>government housing projects aimed at eliminating Edinburgh's slums</---B>), and the rules that come along with that life: edicts like \"always back up your mates\" and \"never grass on anyone\". The title refers to friends sticking together when ever This novel follows several decades of the lives of four Scottish friends, from their high school days in Edinburgh until their thirties, when circumstances have put them each on separate paths. In essence, this is a story about life growing up in \"the scheme\" (government housing projects aimed at eliminating Edinburgh's slums), and the rules that come along with that life: edicts like \"always back up your mates\" and \"never grass on anyone\". The title refers to friends sticking together when everything is falling apart. This novel has a very similar appeal to Trainspotting . It bears Welsh's same graphic blend of urban life, sex, drugs, and occasional violence. The first half in particular is a fast-paced montage of these elements. Towards the end, the novel gets a bit more profound, at least in terms of examining friendship (the \"everything falling apart\" bit comes into play here). A very enjoyable book overall; the vulgarity of Welsh's style (entertaining though it is!) belies some good observations on loyalty and working class life. ...more Glue is populated with strong characters. The four main friends the reader follows - Gally, Juice Terry, N-Sign Ewart, and Billy Birrell - stick together through thick and thin. From primary school to soccer riots (which is an hilarious scene) to teenage clubbing to middle age, the four remain friends. What's more is their mannerisms and behavior towards each other change very little over the course of the novel, which gives it a remarkably cohesive feel. In the end, the reader is made to feel m Glue is populated with strong characters. The four main friends the reader follows - Gally, Juice Terry, N-Sign Ewart, and Billy Birrell - stick together through thick and thin. From primary school to soccer riots (which is an hilarious scene) to teenage clubbing to middle age, the four remain friends. What's more is their mannerisms and behavior towards each other change very little over the course of the novel, which gives it a remarkably cohesive feel. In the end, the reader is made to feel most sympathetic towards Gally because he is the group's martyr and his story is the most integral to the climax of the novel. However, all four main characters receive equal page time, and because of this they are so developed that you know what one will say before it is said. The reader gets to intimately know each of the four. Also, the situations the lads experience throughout are exciting, hilarious and wildly varied. The afformentioned soccer riot is great, the European vacation is very interesting, and the reunion at the end is nearly heartbreaking. In fact, the only aspect of the book I didn't care for was the year hopping. The story begins when the boys are about 10 and progresses in 5 year increments up to middle age. It works on the level of a character study, but it makes the novel seem more pieced together than linear. Irvine Welsh is obviously an incredibly talented writer, but the jumping around seems like a crutch to prop up a story idea that never reached maturity. One page Gally is at the nightclub, the next he's just getting out of prison. All that said Glue is a great read, the more so since Filth was such a disappointment. The characters and situations are great, and with the exception of the year hopping, I found every facet of the novel to be great especially for fans of Welsh's work. If you love any of his work read Glue - it is truly intriguing. ...more why yes, i do believe i've found a new favorite author . but. you know that frustration of a sneeze coming on; it builds and you think shit, this is going to be a big one.. and while you pull a stupid face bracing for the blow-out, it immediately evaporates to nothing? a disappointing end, it left me feeling a bit tense as though there ought to have been something more (or: minus the reprise). small complaint, as the whole of Glue is brilliant. irvine welsh's ability to make sympathetic characters why yes, i do believe i've found a new favorite author . but. you know that frustration of a sneeze coming on; it builds and you think shit, this is going to be a big one.. and while you pull a stupid face bracing for the blow-out, it immediately evaporates to nothing? a disappointing end, it left me feeling a bit tense as though there ought to have been something more (or: minus the reprise). small complaint, as the whole of Glue is brilliant. irvine welsh's ability to make sympathetic characters of those i'd otherwise dismiss -- ravers, wasters, junkies, hooligans, fucking for fuck's sake -- is no small feat, giving believable substance to a lot of piss and cum and making it into something endearing, even. never too dark or too heavy or too dirty.. bless for dry sarcastic humor. i'm smitten. this was my first irvine welsh book. expectations were very MOR but now am wondering why it took this long for me to pick him up? loved it. ...more This is definately one I have to go back and read. This exploration of four friends and the different paths they take over several decades is very enjoyable. Disturbing and vulgar, hilarious and heartbreaking, especially the character of Andrew Galloway and his tragic turn. Another good one from Edina's laureate of squalor. This book is utterly filthy and it is often written in the hackneyed speech of the Scottish lower class. There is a disturbing scene involving a dog, and this caused a lot of my classmates to refuse to read any further. Despite the perversions, I really enjoyed this novel. This book was hard. Hard in every way. The language, the plot, the characters. All hard. And every bit worth it. Irvine Welsh is at his best in Glue \u2013 it\u2019s a book about friendships, and how the glue that holds us all together is affected by the passage of time, and our surroundings, and all sorts of external factors including drug addiction and disappointment, two of Welsh\u2019s big themes that seem to follow him from book to book. The good thing about Glue is that Welsh gets a lot of time to play with his characters and to put them into different situations, to see how they react. Even after watching the film Irvine Welsh is at his best in Glue \u2013 it\u2019s a book about friendships, and how the glue that holds us all together is affected by the passage of time, and our surroundings, and all sorts of external factors including drug addiction and disappointment, two of Welsh\u2019s big themes that seem to follow him from book to book. The good thing about Glue is that Welsh gets a lot of time to play with his characters and to put them into different situations, to see how they react. Even after watching the film of Trainspotting, as an example, I still found it hard to differentiate between the different characters \u2013 here, in Glue, they\u2019re so well-defined that I still remember them, as well as the ending, which is unfortunate. I would\u2019ve liked to have re-read it, but I guess I\u2019ll save that for later, when I\u2019ve read the rest of Welsh\u2019s ouevre. He certainly has a lot of stuff out there \u2013 I\u2019d guess I\u2019ve read around half of it, and that\u2019s still at least half a dozen books. In this novel, we follow a group of friends from their time together as kids in the 70s to the turn of the millenium, when a lot of secrets start coming to light. Of course, I can\u2019t talk about what those secrets are without spoiling the end of the book, but the interesting thing here is that the twists start kicking in about two thirds of the way through the novel, and then just don\u2019t let up until you\u2019ve turned the final page. In many ways, that\u2019s why I\u2019ve given this a nine \u2013 not many books hit you in the face, but this is one of them. For me, one of the interesting things was that my generation came a couple of generations after the one that\u2019s featured here, and whilst I did grow up in a working class town, it wasn\u2019t as bleak as the childhood that Welsh depicts. That said, I can recognise some of the personality types, and I can also see some of the characters from this novel in some of the famous people that dominated the era, although I\u2019m not going to mention any names \u2013 that\u2019s for you to find out. It\u2019s no secret that I\u2019m a big fan of Irvine Welsh, and it\u2019s hard to pick a single book to hold up above the others, and so I\u2019m not going to try to. That said, I think Glue is as good as any of his other books, if not better \u2013 I\u2019d recommend it accordingly. Really, most people have already read one of Irvine Welsh\u2019s books by the time that they pick up a copy of Glue, although it\u2019s also not a bad book to start with. I guess, if I had to, I\u2019d recommend Filth or Maribou Stork Nightmares, because those are my two favourite Irvine Welsh novels. But it\u2019s pretty close, and to be honest, most people discover his work through Trainspotting \u2013 a bit like Chuck Palahniuk, with Fight Club. You should probably read Trainspotting first because it\u2019s the book that he\u2019s associated with \u2013 after that, think about picking up a copy of Glue. Or do what I do, and stock up on Irvine Welsh books whenever you come across them in charity shops \u2013 it\u2019s cheaper. ...more \"Glue\" is about four boys from working class families in Edinburgh. It follows them from being small kids to adulthood, with some stops along the way. It runs roughly parallel with Welsh's \"Trainspotting\" and some of the characters from \"Trainspotting\" make brief appearances in \"Glue\" as they know some of the same friends and hang out at some of the same bars. We're first introduced to the four mates in 1970 as small kids with their families. Carl \"N-SIGN\" Ewart and Billy \"Business\" Birrell's fat \"Glue\" is about four boys from working class families in Edinburgh. It follows them from being small kids to adulthood, with some stops along the way. It runs roughly parallel with Welsh's \"Trainspotting\" and some of the characters from \"Trainspotting\" make brief appearances in \"Glue\" as they know some of the same friends and hang out at some of the same bars. We're first introduced to the four mates in 1970 as small kids with their families. Carl \"N-SIGN\" Ewart and Billy \"Business\" Birrell's fathers meet at the metal fabrication shop where they both work hard and bond to become lifelong friends, which the boys follow. \"Juice\" Terry Lawson and his sister watch as their father leaves them and their mother for another, younger woman. And Andrew \"Gally\" Galloway is told \"you're the man of the house now\" while his mother cries and his father has to leave with some policemen, who he says \"they need my help\". We meet them next in their midteens in 1980, Terry having dropped out of school to work on the juice lorries, hence his nickname, where he gets to meet and sleep with all the girls in a bunch of neighborhoods. The other three are still in school and hating it. From all four of them, three Hibees and a Jam Tart, we get their view on their brilliant plan for football hooliganism at a Hibs vs. Glasgow match, that they think has never been done before to go without their colours to the opposing side's bleachers and start a fight. Then we meet them again in 1990 when the four head off to Munich for the Oktoberfest to drink, have fun and raise hell. Terry is the happiest of the bunch, whose life is all about thievery, sex and drinking, Billy is the hardest, a champion boxer, Carl is a successful club DJ, but Gally's been in and out of prison and has the worst luck of all. And finally, we come to 2000 where all four of them have separated in various ways, not the least of which is death. Events bring the remaining three together again. Welsh writes the whole thing, dialogue and narrative in a thick Scottish accent, with unconventional punctuation and chock full of vulgarities. I found myself not understanding words till many chapters later when suddenly they made sense, like \"boatil\" is actually \"bottle\" and \"eh\" is really \"he\" and so forth. It helped at times to try and imagine Scotty, from Star Trek, saying some of it... It's hard to read, but well worth the effort. ...more This guy flabbergasts me, especially this one, Glue. It is an absolute wank-fest. The beer-fest holiday in Germany was so over the top I was wondering if it might have been a fantasy plagiarized from some hormone-crazed schoolboy son of a Presbyterian minister. What utter implausible garbage it was, the whole book, from cover to cover. And then the irresponsible glamorization of drug taking this moron indulges in. Speed is like sucking lollipops, real heros do skag. Mind, you might get AIDS and This guy flabbergasts me, especially this one, Glue. It is an absolute wank-fest. The beer-fest holiday in Germany was so over the top I was wondering if it might have been a fantasy plagiarized from some hormone-crazed schoolboy son of a Presbyterian minister. What utter implausible garbage it was, the whole book, from cover to cover. And then the irresponsible glamorization of drug taking this moron indulges in. Speed is like sucking lollipops, real heros do skag. Mind, you might get AIDS and die, apparently that is the only risk. No schitzos, no destroyed lives, parents, siblings, families, just bullet-proof laugh-a-minute bozos like Spud or latent geniuses like Renton (or Ewart or Sickboy or Begbie, the whole poxy cast) who only need to get clean and all's rosy. Welsh is just a smutty little grub with a tendency for animal cruelty fantasy who writes cheap, one-dimensional, juvenile bum-joke rubbish made interesting only -- one trick and one only -- by the unfamiliar Scottish street lingo and slang. Written in plain-speak english all those who give it five stars would chuck it in the rubbish bin after a dozen pages. And then, to contrast this millionaire celebrity with James Kelman who writes truly intelligent, excorticating studies of the same working class lives, struggles and people Welsh fills his scribblings with, pffft! Art and fart. So be it, Hollywood is proof, true artists have their ideas stolen by the mediocre who are showered with fame and fortune as reward. \"I\u2019ll tell ye something else, bastards people think lies are true and even when they know they\u2019re no true they\u2019ll say fuck all because the shitey fucking arse who\u2019s telling the lie holds the position of power.\" That's only a half star by the way. ...more Fazia um tempo que eu nao lia um livro que me prendesse tanto. Me sinto meio culpado por ter adiado ele por quase um ano na estante dos livros a serem lidos. Eu acredito que alguns livros vem na hora que eles tem que vir. Peguei ele por ter uma bagagem na literatura do Welsh. Se voc\u00ea nao leu/viu o filme do Trainspotting, nem encosta nesse porque as hist\u00f3rias se cruzam e voc\u00ea vai ter mais spoiller do que quando entra no facebook depois de final de temporada de Game o Thrones. Enfim, vamos ao livro. Fazia um tempo que eu nao lia um livro que me prendesse tanto. Me sinto meio culpado por ter adiado ele por quase um ano na estante dos livros a serem lidos. Eu acredito que alguns livros vem na hora que eles tem que vir. Peguei ele por ter uma bagagem na literatura do Welsh. Se voc\u00ea nao leu/viu o filme do Trainspotting, nem encosta nesse porque as hist\u00f3rias se cruzam e voc\u00ea vai ter mais spoiller do que quando entra no facebook depois de final de temporada de Game o Thrones. Enfim, vamos ao livro. \u00c9 sobre quatro amigos que se conhecem desde pequenos. O livro se divide em quatro partes separadas por um intervalo de 10 anos na hist\u00f3ria. A primeira parte \u00e9 divertida e nost\u00e1lgica pra caralho mostrando quatro adolescentes tentando transar pelas primeiras vezes, brigar por futebol e ter as primeiras experi\u00eancias com drogas. O fim da primeira parte d\u00e1 o ritmo pro resto do livro. A partir da segunda o Welsh come\u00e7a a despejar um monte de armas de Tchekov que s\u00f3 v\u00e3o disparar no fim do livro. O que pode ser isolado como diversos contos engra\u00e7ados, come\u00e7a a se ligar pelos rev\u00e9ses (rev\u00e9s tem plural?) e formar um romance conciso em que fica dif\u00edcil perceber quando a hist\u00f3ria se fez t\u00e3o importante \u00e0 ponto de voc\u00ea se envolver com ela. As idas e vindas dos personagens, as reflex\u00f5es sobre aus\u00eancia, paternidade e responsabilidades fazem desse livro uma obra foda. Terminar ele \u00e9 como perder um amigo de repente. Muita coisa pra se pensar, muita coisa que voc\u00ea ainda queria pela frente, mas sabe que n\u00e3o h\u00e1 nada dali pra frente. ...more Huge, heavy book; One of the boys probably could've used it as a weapon in a pub fight, very painful and all. But the thing is, Glue is a more humane, warm-hearted story filled with growing up and sticking together. That, to me, makes it a different atmosphere from for example the cold, depressing, fucked up hell of Trainspotting. There's threedimensional characters here, some laugh's, some cries and just a lot of heart in general. Fact is, that's not what I ultimately seek in an Irvine Welsh bo Huge, heavy book; One of the boys probably could've used it as a weapon in a pub fight, very painful and all. But the thing is, Glue is a more humane, warm-hearted story filled with growing up and sticking together. That, to me, makes it a different atmosphere from for example the cold, depressing, fucked up hell of Trainspotting. There's threedimensional characters here, some laugh's, some cries and just a lot of heart in general. Fact is, that's not what I ultimately seek in an Irvine Welsh book. I want the weirdness, the violence, hellish atmosphere and coupled with the sheer ridiculousness of it all. Sure, there's still the sex, violence ( (view spoiler) [ that part with the dogs was shocking (hide spoiler) ] ), black humour and drugs, but it rarely gets as bleak as his other books. So, it took some time getting used to this new atmosphere and warmer tone. It's good, but I guess I liked certain fragements of it ( (view spoiler) [ Germany for example (hide spoiler) ] ) way more than as a whole. Also the book lost me for a while in the (view spoiler) [ 2000's (hide spoiler) ] part of it, since it felt rushed, chaotic and sometimes confusing. Didn't like the structure of all these small sub-chapters, going back and forth and constantly switching characters and locations. So, this was still good, just not great... ...more I loved this so much! It has been hanging around my house for absolutely ages (my first ever RiSi swap in fact) and I regret not getting around to it sooner. Irvine Welsh has such a talent for creating characters who are completely endearing and engaging despite getting up to horrendous things. It sounds like a clich\u00e9 but I was really disappointed when I finished this book and wanted to stay with the characters longer & find out what happened next. Juice Terry is especially hilarious. I also I loved this so much! It has been hanging around my house for absolutely ages (my first ever RiSi swap in fact) and I regret not getting around to it sooner. Irvine Welsh has such a talent for creating characters who are completely endearing and engaging despite getting up to horrendous things. It sounds like a clich\u00e9 but I was really disappointed when I finished this book and wanted to stay with the characters longer & find out what happened next. Juice Terry is especially hilarious. I also loved the way characters from Trainspotting kept cropping up as it's one of my all-time favourites so it was great to get these little snapshots of what was going on with them. ...more I found this book to be an engaging, crazy, and even heartfelt account about the lifelong friendship between the four childhood friends. This is one of those books that has stuck in my head since the one and only time I read it. Perhaps because I could relate in some ways to the characters, I think about this book and the stories every so often. I also found it refreshing that Welsh wrote a structured novel with linear events. I also appreciated that he returned some of the old characters from T I found this book to be an engaging, crazy, and even heartfelt account about the lifelong friendship between the four childhood friends. This is one of those books that has stuck in my head since the one and only time I read it. Perhaps because I could relate in some ways to the characters, I think about this book and the stories every so often. I also found it refreshing that Welsh wrote a structured novel with linear events. I also appreciated that he returned some of the old characters from Trainspotting , like Renton and Spud and Begbie. It made for a good read. ...more The first sign of Welsh's decline. Glue depicts the relationship between a group of working class boys. As they grow they experience the usual trials and tribulations. Sometimes it works and the set pieces are entertaining but towards the end the becomes incredibly banal, the introduction of the country singer, although used to represent different cultures, is the nadir of the novel and renders it idiotic. Disappointing. All time fav IW book- character driven tale of four friends and the woes they weave over the decades. Absolutely love Juice Terry, the self proclaimed fanny merchant/ aerated waters salesmen (see him later- and fatter in Porno). Wish they would make this into a movie. When I had the fortune to meet Mr. Welsh I had him sign my well read copy of this book and Porno. The page he signed had been torn out and taped back together. Lol. A tale of friendship and life. A concept novel that follows 4 males as they grow up together in the same working class area. The story is set in 4 parts, each 10 years advanced from the last. We get to see the boys at 5 years old, and then again as awkward teenagers before seeing how they have developed into adults in the final two sections. This novel is Welsh's finest in my estimation. Juice Terry is probably my favourite of his characters and that's saying a lot! I'm a sucker for these coming of age novels especially when it's by the likes of Irvine Welsh, his ovreall bleak and stark reality these kids face growing up in the slumps of scotland is comedic,honest and pardon my french \"fucken brutal\". The only draw back is that you might have some trouble as I did with its lothian sarcasm and dialogue, I had to read some lines a couple of times to get it. This is the story of Andrew Galloway, Juice Terry Lawson, Billy Birrell, and Carl Ewart, 4 friends from Edinburg, and the trials and tribulations each goes through as they grow up. It's written mostly in the Scottish dialect that Welsh fans know well, so if you've read Trainspotting, you should be able to get through it. Most excellent read. This was one of the first Welsh books I discovered, and I loved it. It's as heartbreaking as it is funny and the four main characters are bizarrely likeable. The fourth of the five sections is not quite so captivating as the others but it doesn't detract from the novel too much at all. This is a great view of friendship, modern life and generational changes. It is written in dialect so if you are unfamiliar with Scottish accents, it may take you a while, but once you are accustomed to it, the book becomes even better. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I love how Welsh has kind of re-created Scotland and made it into his own book universe. Told ya I was going to read everything he's written and I'm now well on my way. it's a mindfuck to try to understand Welsh's way of writing - he writes in something like phonetic Scottish white-trash ebonics. But it's hilarious, what a rad book! I'm not proud of it, but I liked this book--esp. rotating around amongst the four young men during their coming of age er, antics. Their brand of social commentary was entertaining, too.<---C>Irvine Welsh</---C>", "Title": "Glue"},
