{"Comments": "<+++>Skull Full of Kisses</+++> collects a wide range of horror stories written by <---A>Michael</---A> West. Many are re-issues of stories printed in magazines and other anthologies, but there are a few new surprises in store as well. I hadn't had the pleasure of reading anything by West prior to this, so I was introduced to the wide array of his talents. Each story is a new adventure, and West pulls in many outside influences. One example of this is in the story \"Jiki\", where West's love of Asian horror is expressed <+++>Skull Full of Kisses</+++> collects a wide range of horror stories written by Michael West. Many are re-issues of stories printed in magazines and other anthologies, but there are a few new surprises in store as well. I hadn't had the pleasure of reading anything by West prior to this, so I was introduced to the wide array of his talents. Each story is a new adventure, and West pulls in many outside influences. One example of this is in the story \"Jiki\", where West's love of Asian horror is expressed in the way he twists the methods of the mob. Another favorite of mine within this anthology was \"God Like Me\", where a man is unhappy with his life, but soon realizes he has some amazing powers that prove very useful to him. Both of the above mentioned stories, as well as the others in this collection,<---M> contain drama</---M>, terror, and depth. The stories are easy reads, but they make you think, and some even touch close to home. One story that personally touched me was the final segment of this book, \"Goodnight\". In this story a young boy has lost his mother, and the spirit of his great-grandfather pays him a visit in order to explain to him about death. \"Goodnight\" is extremely touching, and, though I'm not a seven-year-old boy like the one in this tale, it made me think more about death and how to face it, as I recently lost someone close to me. West has proven he can bring forth emotions of the reader and to me, that is a sign of a great author! I will definitely be reading more by West in the future and would recommend that all horror fans give him a try. This collection would be a great addition to the horror section of all libraries, as with such a variety of stories included, anyone that picks up this book should find something they enjoy. Contents: Disappearing Act (<---B>Introduction by Gary Braunbeck</---B>) Jiki The Bridge Dogs of War Trolling Einstein's Slingshot God Like Me To Know How to See For Her Sanctuary Goodnight Contains: Adult Language, Adult Situations, Sex Review by Rhonda Wilson ...more Excellent, well-rounded collection that is well-worth the time and money.<---F> Moody, atmoshperic, creepy</---F>. Terrifying short stories that won't leave my mind! West is a master story-teller. I haven't read anything of his that I could put down before reaching the last page. Skull Full of Kisses is no exception. READ IT!! :O) http://mikesfilmtalk.com/2013/03/30/s... Overall I really enjoyed the book Skull Full of Kisses, each story worked well as separate entities and overall in a collection based on love and romance. I\u2019m going to review each story in the novel. I really liked the story Jiki, the way the story was painted had a wonderful feel to it. It left me questioning whether everything the demon had said was true or made-up for our main character. It was a nice touch to include the mythology to the story and added a welcomed element. It was good to read Overall I really enjoyed the book Skull Full of Kisses, each story worked well as separate entities and overall in a collection based on love and romance. I\u2019m going to review each story in the novel. I really liked the story Jiki, the way the story was painted had a wonderful feel to it. It left me questioning whether everything the demon had said was true or made-up for our main character. It was a nice touch to include the mythology to the story and added a welcomed element. It was good to read about Kim again from the Cinema of Shadows book, though if you read that book the Bridge is basically retold in there. I really liked Dogs of War, to me this story felt like a really good psychological thriller. About the effects war has on the soldiers coming back, and were the demons that followed real demons or imaginary. Trolling is a part of Michael\u2019s Legacy of the Gods series, just before the beginning of Poseidon\u2019s Children. I overall enjoyed the story and the characters involved in this story. Einstein\u2019s Slingshot is an interesting story that involves dinosaurs, and a bunch of people in the dinosaurs way. I really felt for the characters and was rooting for them to beat the dinosaurs. God Like Me was very interesting, I had wanted to know more about the main character\u2019s past and how he got his power. I think this was my least favorite in the collection. To Know How to See was a really good story, it could have worked the same way as the previous Dogs of War story, it could have been a supernatural tale with aliens or that the main character is going insane in a psychological thriller. I liked the story For Her, and what I liked about it was that I believed that the story was going to go one way and by the end of it, it changed into something else. It follows the theme of the book with love and romance and had a wonderful mythological feel to it. Sanctuary is a wonderful supernatural tale involving a temple filled with monks and soldiers trapped in the temple. The demons were wonderfully crafted and felt unique in the collection. The final story in the collection is called Goodnight, and it returns us to Harmony, Indiana. I think it was my favorite out of all of them. It was definitely different than the other stories in the collection, none of the supernatural elements in the story felt evil, it had a warm safe feeling. ...more Some of the stories within were quite good. One or another were weak. Disappearing Act (Introduction by Gary Braunbeck) Jiki - Short for Jikiwinki is a demon who eats the dead. Nice story about a yakuza with a conscience. A man is drawn to a demon that reminds him of his lost girlfriend. Interesting twist in the end. The Bridge is a modern tale of ghosts. Weak in my humble opinion. Too amauterish. Too cliche. Too simple (and not in a good way). Dogs of War - A man's demons haunts his life. What mus Some of the stories within were quite good. One or another were weak. Disappearing Act (Introduction by Gary Braunbeck) Jiki - Short for Jikiwinki is a demon who eats the dead. Nice story about a yakuza with a conscience. A man is drawn to a demon that reminds him of his lost girlfriend. Interesting twist in the end. The Bridge is a modern tale of ghosts. Weak in my humble opinion. Too amauterish. Too cliche. Too simple (and not in a good way). Dogs of War - A man's demons haunts his life. What must he do so they can go away? Why did they appear only after the Desert Storm? Trolling A Story about the sea. Calming sea. When In land why fear the sea creatures? One thing is for sure. I will never touch a woman again without a bit of fear. Ahah (Sorry... :) Einstein Slingshot is an interesting novelette about time travel. The interesting characters and scenario. A bit predicted in my opinion. Nevertheless I would like to see how Michael West would do with a full lengted novel. God Like Me - This one is probably one of the best tales in this book. What would you do if you suddently discover that you are omnipotent? What if you discover while your boss is yelling at you? This one should have been a larger story. To Know How to See - Are you what you appear to be? This one was the weakest story in my opinion. For Her - A lovestory. A horror love story. Sanctuary - A story set in the himalayan as a man tries to find cover of snow storm... but those monks... Goodnight - is a story of a man as he try to console his grandson after the boy's mother dies in a car accident. A good twist in the end. In the end Michael West talks a bit about each story tellings us how it came to be or what does it mean to him. Quite good. I would love to see more opinions of the writers about the stories they write. Advisable to anyone. I can now see why Michael West is such a good writer and have so many good reviews on his books. I will definetly read more from him. ...more From well-written introduction (by Gary A. Braunbeck) to final haunting explanation, Michael West\u2019s Skull Full of Kisses kept me glued to the page and eager for more. Each story\u2019s completely new and different, yet they hang together beautifully, a well-carved, well-crafted collection like the horror room in an art gallery, filled with mystery, suspense and the awesome power of unspoken fears seeping into the reader\u2019s imagination. Author Michael West has that rare skill which knows when to let the From well-written introduction (by Gary A. Braunbeck) to final haunting explanation, Michael West\u2019s Skull Full of Kisses kept me glued to the page and eager for more. Each story\u2019s completely new and different, yet they hang together beautifully, a well-carved, well-crafted collection like the horror room in an art gallery, filled with mystery, suspense and the awesome power of unspoken fears seeping into the reader\u2019s imagination. Author Michael West has that rare skill which knows when to let the imagination take over. Something too awful for a gangster to contemplate? Then see it in your own mind\u2019s eye and the page becomes your escape, with the author\u2019s words your guide. From violence to tragedy to outer space, with vivid descriptions of almost innocence, the sound of convincing dialog, the company of honestly flawed characters, and the breathtaking surprise of well-timed scares, this collection of ten short tales will take you everywhere and leave you haunted. My absolute favorite is Goodnight; it stays with me still\u2014a classic, wonderful, human story, with the magic of goodnight instead of goodbye, and the skill of horror held bound in the grasp of beauty, kindness and depth. Once that tale\u2019s done, all that\u2019s left is to thank the author for a wonderful experience. Disclosure: I won an ecopy and I\u2019m offering my honest review. I think I\u2019ve found a new favorite author! ...more Excellent stories, excellent writing skills, great imagination. A very enjoyable read. I loved all the stories in this book, especially \"Goodnight\". I haven't read any of his other books yet, but after reading this I will. He paints vivid images in your mind of the story he's weaving for you. Some great research was done, since some of his stories are based on legends. I was looking for a good read to fit the October mood and I found it. A collection of my best short fiction to date. This was one great read. If you're a fan of horror, this will satisfy your tastes!<---C>DEATH</---C>", "Title": "Skull Full of Kisses"},
