{"Comments": "We are in the dregs of December. Soon we will experience the long dark of January,<---M> the utter waste of February</---M>, and the vindictiveness of March.<---F> And then it will probably rain</---F>. It\u2019s a time of year meant for misery. The weather is cold and gray; you didn't get what you wanted for Christmas; you\u2019re broke; and you probably gained fifteen pounds. Want to feel a little worse? Read a book about <---C>Theodore Roosevelt</---C>. While your life is spent sunk into an overstuffed couch, drinking cheap domestic beer wh We are in the dregs of December. Soon we will experience the long dark of January, the utter waste of February, and the vindictiveness of March. And then it will probably rain. It\u2019s a time of year meant for misery. The weather is cold and gray; you didn't get what you wanted for Christmas; you\u2019re broke; and you probably gained fifteen pounds. Want to feel a little worse? Read a book about Theodore Roosevelt. While your life is spent sunk into an overstuffed couch, drinking cheap domestic beer while watching the Minnesota Vikings play out the string on a crushingly disappointing season (<---B>and yes, I\u2019m projecting a bit</---B>), Teddy\u2019s life was spent in grand motion and noble pursuit. He was a writer, naturalist and Harvard graduate. He was a police commissioner, governor, and once caught a rustler. He won the Nobel Peace Prize and the Medal of Honor. He was a soldier and a statesman. He even managed to shoot a Spaniard. As I noted in my review of The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt , Teddy Roosevelt is easy to love, tough to hate, and impossible not to find annoying. There is something eternally grating about his optimistic bluster and his myopic can-do spirit. You can see him now, in your mind\u2019s eye, swaggering about with his shoulders thrown back and his stomach thrust out, a monocle in his eye, twirling a cane and bleating \u201cBully!\u201d at everything he sees. He strikes me as the kind of guy who never realized the leg-up in life that his wealth gave him. While he was out at the dude ranch, pretending to be a cowboy, with a copy of Tolstoy shoved in his pocket, it probably didn't occur to him why the other cowboys weren\u2019t reading War and Peace . Leaving aside my seasonal bitterness, it is clear that Teddy lived a life in full. <+++>Theodore Rex</+++> , the second volume in <---A>Edmund Morris</---A>\u2019s Roosevelt trilogy, begins where The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt left off: with Teddy learning the news that President William McKinley has been assassinated by anarchist Leon Czolgosz. The book covers both Roosevelt\u2019s terms, and ends as he leaves office and hands the reins of power to the monumentally fat William Howard Taft. By any measure, Roosevelt\u2019s presidency was quite successful: he got the Panama Canal under way, kept the Germans and British out of Central America, brokered peace between Russia and Japan, engaged in literal gunboat diplomacy, dealt with a thorny labor dispute, busted a few trusts, and saved great swaths of America from rapacious developers. (It is this last feat, the creation of our National Parks, that is Roosevelt\u2019s enduring legacy. Don\u2019t believe me? Hike into the backwoods of Yosemite, away from the RVs and Nikon-wielding day-trippers, wake up at dawn, and find a vantage point from which to observe Yosemite Falls as the sun comes up. You will hit your knees and thank God and Teddy Roosevelt). The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt was a narrowly-focused epic. Morris got as deep into Teddy\u2019s soul as a biographer can get. However, the extreme focus on Teddy came at the cost of the context in which he lived. <+++>Theodore Rex</+++> opens up the scope a little bit wider. The best part of the book, in my opinion, is actually the prologue, in which Teddy takes the train from Mount Marcy to Buffalo, where McKinley had been shot. During this trip, Morris has Teddy looking out the window. When Teddy sees some coal workers, Morris gives a disquisition on early 20th century labor. When Teddy sees some black people, Morris describes the state of America\u2019s race relations. While this section seemed a bit imaginative on Morris\u2019s part, it\u2019s a clever way of describing the state of America as Teddy ascended the throne. Make no mistake: this is a great book. It\u2019s about as good as biography gets. For the academic-minded, you can rest that Morris\u2019s research is both broad and deep. Despite some occasional flourishes, Theodore Rex is impeccably sourced, and has wonderfully illuminating endnotes that add a lot to the text if you aren\u2019t averse to flipping back and forth. For the literary-minded, the writing is top notch. Morris knows how to tell his story clearly, but he is also able to slip into an evocative prose that brings you into events: Indistinguishable as the whistle-stops soon became, even to him, each was supreme drama to a little audience that had been looking forward to it for weeks. Some buggy travelers had come one hundred miles to perch on the platform and peer endlessly at the horizon, waiting for a smudge of smoke to signal that \u201cTeddy\u201d was imminent. Then a speck growing in the smoke, a crescendo of wind and wheels, a great locomotive advancing \u2013 too fast, surely, to stop? Despair as it indeed keeps moving. Relief when it halts, after all, under the water tank one hundred yards down the track. A general stampede toward the Elysian , where Roosevelt stands grinning in frock coat and vest. He leans over the rail, pumping hands and tousling cowlicks. \u201cDee-lighted!\u201d Rearing back, he begins to orate, punctuating every sentence with palm-smacks and dental percussion, while his listeners stand mesmerized. The engine bell rings; the train jerks forward. Another grin, and a farewell wave. The Cheshire-cat flash of those teeth float in the sky long after the train is a speck again. Like all biographers, Morris is enamored of his subject. However, he doesn\u2019t neglect Teddy\u2019s shortcomings as president. Chief among these was race relations. Teddy started off well, having the temerity to invite Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House. By the end of his term, however, Teddy had screwed the pooch with blacks by his shameful handling of the Brownsville mutineers. (A group of black soldiers was accused of leaving their barracks and shooting up the town of Brownsville; despite a complete lack of evidence, Roosevelt had all the men in these companies dishonorably discharged). The amount of time Morris spends on race issues makes it clear that he is no simple apologist. If there was an area of Teddy\u2019s life that I wished got more play, it would be in the arena of his personal life. There is very little space devoted to his family life, specifically, his wife Edith. The only other Roosevelt besides Teddy to spend much time on the page is Alice Roosevelt, Teddy\u2019s daughter by his first wife. Alice is described so winsomely, that I was actually a bit let down when I saw her photograph. Since this is a biography, I feel compelled to compare Morris to the great Robert Caro. This urge comes from the nagging sensation that Theodore Rex , for all its equities, lacked something intangible. By any measure, this is a five-star book, yet I set it down thinking four-stars. What was the missing fifth star? In order to solve the puzzle, I had to reach back to my Caro, and his Years of Lyndon Johnson . Finally, it struck me: there was no conflict. In order to have drama, there has to be conflict, a protagonist and an antagonist. In Caro\u2019s books on LBJ, Caro is always able to set up conflicts within his story. Sometimes that conflict is between two men, such as LBJ\u2019s senate race against Texas legend Coke Stevenson. Sometimes that conflict is between a man and a goal, such as LBJ\u2019s work to get the Voting Rights Act passed. In either case, the story of a man\u2019s life is crafted \u2013 perhaps with a bit of authorial license \u2013 into a dramatic arc. Morris doesn\u2019t do this. He takes a strictly chronological approach. This happened. Then this. Then that. As a consequence, you are jumping from one event to the next, with the ultimate resolution for each event coming farther down the road. In fairness, that\u2019s probably how it is to be president: you don\u2019t get to sit down and focus on one problem; rather, you have to keep all these balls in the air. Still, it\u2019s not the best way to tell a story, because it requires you to remember all the details of all these flare-ups as Morris leaves them for hundreds of pages before circling back. Robert Caro\u2019s greatest trait is to expand the world of his biography. He doesn\u2019t just tell you about his subject, he spends a lot of time \u2013 sometimes entire chapters \u2013 describing the characters who came into his subject\u2019s orbit. At times, Morris seems to grasp for these heights. For instance, Morris devotes a lot of time to Senator Mark Hanna, who opposed Teddy\u2019s Progressive instincts (and who reminded me of the top-hatted Monopoly guy). Unfortunately for the story (and for Hanna, I suppose), Hanna is struck dead early in Theodore Rex , leaving Teddy without a counterweight. I think Morris missed an opportunity to really explore the lives and personalities of men such as Taft and John Hay (Lincoln\u2019s former secretary turned Secretary of State). Caro\u2019s writing thrills you with anticipation for what happens next; he writes as though history is still unspooling before his eyes. Morris, on the other hand, surrenders to the immutability of the past. He assumes you know how things went down, and simply tries to tell this story at the highest level. It\u2019s not a bad approach. It just fails, ultimately, to reach that highest level of biography, where you forget that you are reading about a President, and begin to feel that you know a man. ...more The book is an excellent account of the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt. Based on this book I can see why he is often rated a top rate president. The book starts at the assassination of President McKinley where Theodore, as McKinley\u2019s vice president, was unexpectedly thrust into the country\u2019s most important job. Theodore justifiably became concerned about being an assassin\u2019s automatic target as the nation\u2019s leader. His father\u2019s hero Abraham Lincoln as well as President James Garfield (who was a The book is an excellent account of the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt. Based on this book I can see why he is often rated a top rate president. The book starts at the assassination of President McKinley where Theodore, as McKinley\u2019s vice president, was unexpectedly thrust into the country\u2019s most important job. Theodore justifiably became concerned about being an assassin\u2019s automatic target as the nation\u2019s leader. His father\u2019s hero Abraham Lincoln as well as President James Garfield (who was assassinated in Theodore\u2019s lifetime) and now his immediate boss were slain by an assassin\u2019s bullet. So he increased the president\u2019s security team. I must say that if there was ever a person who was more qualified to be president, besides Washington, I could not name him. He was classically educated by his wealthy father at an Ivy Leagues school and he had been to many countries including the most remote regions in the world. He was a war hero, as well as an avid reader and successful author. He had been a police commissioner and under secretary of the U.S. Navy. He was unable to be intimidated and he could empathize with the less fortunate. These skills would come to be tested almost immediately upon his accession into the presidency. In 1902 Anthracite coal miners of North eastern Pennsylvania decided to go on strike due to poor pay and working conditions. The strike threatened to freeze thousands of people, when winter struck, who depended on coal for heat. Theodore met with Coal mine owner George Baer to find a solution and became infuriated with Baer\u2019s pompous attitude. So he handpicked a commission with equal representation of labor and management to determine an agreement. What the miners wanted was a 20% pay raise and an eight hour workday. What they received was a 10% pay raise and a nine hour work day. It was viewed, however, by the public as a significant win for the working class and helped increase the new president\u2019s popularity. Also, in 1902 an attempt was made to control the country\u2019s railroad system. Some of the country\u2019s wealthiest business men included James Hill, John Rockefeller and JP Morgan consolidated rail road companies under the name of The Northern Securities Company. Amidst a great public outcry Roosevelt sued the large company under the Sherman Anti Trust Act. In 1904, in a close decision, the Supreme Court ruled against Northern Securities and in support of President Roosevelt. The Northern Securities Company was therefore dissolved. And Roosevelt\u2019s popularity amongst the general public swelled. In 1903 he became frustrated with Columbia\u2019s delaying tactics regarding the building of the Panama Canal. At the time Panama was an isthmus owned by Columbia. So he supported a Panamanian separatist movement by sending warships to block the only Columbian military entrance route into Panama ensuring the separatists success. The U.S. quickly recognized the independent Panama and construction of the canal began shortly afterwards. In 1905 Roosevelt mediated the ending of the Russo-Japanese War with such satisfaction for both sides that he was given a Nobel Peace prize. In 1906 he commissioned an investigation of the meat packing industry somewhat in response to Upton Sinclair\u2019s book \u201cThe Jungle.\u201d He sent two men that he trusted to do surprise inspections of the Chicago meat packing industry. They reported back to him that the conditions of the plants were as bad as Sinclair\u2019s book had stated. Out of this report came two important consumer acts - The Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food Act. He authorized the building of 11 Navy battleships. When he left office America had gone from a small Navy to the second largest in the world just behind England. He signed into the law the establishment of more than twenty national parks and monuments. He also appointed three Supreme Court justices and welcomed Oklahoma as the 46th state of the Union in 1907. He also negotiated with the Japanese government to control Japanese immigration into the Golden State. At the same time, he protected the Japanese American community by banning Japanese-American segregation in California schools. In addition to his accomplishments he was an excellent campaigner and a manipulator of the press garnering much positive press. He was quoted as saying that he loved being the president. And by all accounts he seemed to really enjoy every aspect that goes with being a politician. He gracefully left the office in 1909 being fully confident that his preferred successor William Howard Taft would continue his progressive policies. He left office as one of the most popular presidents to ever serve. But with tons of energy and ambition he retired to private life planning his next adventure - a great African safari hunt. ...more Theodore Roosevelt \u2013 what a guy!!! A whirlwind . A remarkable individual way, way, way ahead of his time. I recommend reading this book to those of you interested in all the details of his presidency AND to those of you who like reading about exceptional human beings. I cannot think of any other person at all similar. You must of course start with the first book of the trilogy: The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt . This is the second, and I am off to read the third: Colonel Roosevelt . I know they ar Theodore Roosevelt \u2013 what a guy!!! A whirlwind . A remarkable individual way, way, way ahead of his time. I recommend reading this book to those of you interested in all the details of his presidency AND to those of you who like reading about exceptional human beings. I cannot think of any other person at all similar. You must of course start with the first book of the trilogy: The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt . This is the second, and I am off to read the third: Colonel Roosevelt . I know they are long, but they are worth it. Should I list some of the remarkable things Theodore achieved during his presidency? Is that what you want to know? The Panama Canal, the Pennsylvanian coal strike settlement, negotiations to end the Russo-Japanese War and the Moroccan Crisis of 1906 for which he received the Nobel Peace Prize, the National Conservation Conference and anti-trust legislation, to name but a few. By reading the book you will understand the magnitude of each accomplishment. You will understand how he pulled off these accomplishments and why he chose to do what he did. Who is Theodore Roosevelt? How did his mind tick? Was he brave? Was he moral? Was he impetuous? Yes, yes, yes! Did he make mistakes? Of course! Perhaps Brownsville was one. Read and judge for yourself. Please read this book. You will be astounded by the exuberance of this man, by his intelligence and his morals. More than just discovering what he did you will discover how this man was under the surface. He is complicated. How could he be both a hunter and a conservationist? How did he balance might versus right, wealth versus labor\u2019s demands? I cannot adequately explain how he looks on African-Americans. I\u2019d have to write a book to explain this accurately, but that is not necessary since you have this book. You end up understanding not only what he did but who he was. Now, in the final book Theodore is off on a safari to Eastern Africa. I will be accompanying him and his son Kermit. What a guy! I don\u2019t want to leave him. I think this book isn\u2019t quite as good as the first. I wanted to know more about his familial relationships, about his wife and children. There is a bit, but not enough. Maybe that is not the author\u2019s fault. There is little information. Edith was reserved. Letters were destroyed. Privacy was kept. Or maybe I will get this in the next volume? I know that the narration by Nathan Marosz really made it difficult at times to pay attention to the words being read. His voice has a terrible sing-song lilt. He drew out in length the final words of a sentence. Then he pauses; it sounds terribly condescending! In any case the narration is completely inappropriate for Theodore who is known to have bitten off his words, spitting them out in a sharp staccato manner. Marosz mispronounces not only French, but German and even English words too. As you follow the amusing lines of the author, you can hardly appreciate the humor, the narration is so distracting. OK, Marosz did have me laughing, not at the author\u2019s lines, but at the bizarre mispronunciations. Wait till you hear how he says the words liqueur, and Steiff (the stuffed teddy bears) and Slav. There was one French name that I was totally incapable of deciphering. Thankfully, both the first and the third books of the trilogy use the narrator Mark Deakins, and he does a magnificent job. Many times lines were read twice, but this, of course, is not the narrator\u2019s fault. I kind of think it was the narration that made it so impossible for me to really enjoy this book as I should have, but at times I did feel just a little bit bored. My advice? If you cannot get the second volume narrated by Mark Deakins, read the paper book instead! You simply cannot hop over any of the books. They should be read together. ...more Three and a half stars. One has to have almost as much energy as Teddy himself to get through this massive history of Roosevelt's presidency. I did not enjoy it anywhere near as much as Morris's earlier book, The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt . Theodore Rex was too often a rather dry chronology with little context or analysis of Roosevelt's place in history. Still....Bully for Teddy! He was a giant. The second installment of Edmund Morris's biographical trilogy of Theodore Roosevelt. Densely written, well researched and with excellent research notes Theodore Rex is a serious piece of political biography. I'm not a slow reader, but I took my time goingg through this one. Political biographies can be challenging for me. All the in-fighting and maneuvering can be tedious at times, but also fascinating. It just isn't fast reading for me. In some respects the book is rather old-fashioned in it's The second installment of Edmund Morris's biographical trilogy of Theodore Roosevelt. Densely written, well researched and with excellent research notes Theodore Rex is a serious piece of political biography. I'm not a slow reader, but I took my time goingg through this one. Political biographies can be challenging for me. All the in-fighting and maneuvering can be tedious at times, but also fascinating. It just isn't fast reading for me. In some respects the book is rather old-fashioned in it's writing style and layout, but I found it refreshing for this very reason. This is a book meant to be read a few chapters at a time. Not something you blow through while waiting at the doctor's office or on the family Christmas visit. Morris didn't write a book for the smartphone and twitter crowd (I'm very aware that I'm using social media/technology to post this review). There is nothing brief or vapid in this book. There are detailed accounts of politics, Roosevelt's 1904 presidential campaign, foreign affairs and ,of course, the Roosevelt clan. Of the three books \"Theodore Rex\" covers the shortest span of time - a mere eight years. This is Roosevelt at his peak both professionally and physically. There are hints (actually more than just hints) of what the future holds in store for Theodore's health, but those troubles are still in the future. The Roosevelt children are just that and the many issues that would bedevil them are not an issue in this installment. It's the Roosevelt Golden Age. If you're interested in Theodore Roosevelt and the Ragtime era I recommend this book. Actually the entire trilogy which I'm reading backwards from the end to the beginning. Why? Just because. I recommend the trilogy as companion piece for Big Trouble: A Murder in a Small Western Town Sets off a Struggle for the Soul of America , Ragtime , An American Tragedy and The Jungle . The works are fiction and non-fiction and were written during different decades over the past 110 years (approximately), but together they can give you a very interesting look at America when the nineteenth century became the twentieth. ...more Ol' Teddy Roosevelt. One of two Republicans that it is okay for liberals to like (the other is Abraham Lincoln of course. Who did you think I was talking about? Rutherford B. Hayes?) I've always liked this guy because of the snippets of history you hear about him: \"Speak softly and carry a big stick.\" Big game hunter. Conservationist. Great public speaker. Teddy Bear. I feel like I've grown up listening to his \"Greatest Hits\" and this is the first time I've actually sat down to listen to all of hi Ol' Teddy Roosevelt. One of two Republicans that it is okay for liberals to like (the other is Abraham Lincoln of course. Who did you think I was talking about? Rutherford B. Hayes?) I've always liked this guy because of the snippets of history you hear about him: \"Speak softly and carry a big stick.\" Big game hunter. Conservationist. Great public speaker. Teddy Bear. I feel like I've grown up listening to his \"Greatest Hits\" and this is the first time I've actually sat down to listen to all of his albums, in context. (Yeah, I don't know where I'm going with this metaphor either.) An interesting read. To be sure, his foreign achievements seem quite impressive. He personally negotiated several volatile situations in Central America and Japan that no modern day President would ever DREAM of attempting. He rolled the dice big several times and won big, most notably in securing the Panama Canal. However, I believe it was these successes during his presidency that led to his overconfidence (hubris?) that ultimately tarnished his legacy later in life, but that'll be covered in the next book. His biggest domestic policy contribution was is environmental conservation. It is so funny that he was the first President to ever promote conservation and that if he did that in the modern day Republican party he would be crucified as a commie-liberal-pinko. He shoved several pieces of conservation legislation and executive orders that had long ranging effects on our country. Clearly he had a big impact with this, I mean, his face is carved into a mountain for crying out loud. The Teddy Roosevelt in this book is the one we remember but he had many miles to go before he slept. This is all covered in the next volume, \"Colonel Roosevelt\" which I plan on reading ASAP. A decent read but too short and not enough detail for my taste. In that regard, it reminded me of \"Truman\" by David McCullough. After this book you'll know all of the facts but not necessarily know the man. ...more In Morris\u2019 second volume we are introduced to President Roosevelt. He is a far more seasoned and mature person than the TR described in the first volume. While still given to outbursts and instantaneous action, he displays political astuteness and an ability to balance his impulsiveness with pragmatism. No longer is TR the NY City Police Commissioner who walked the streets making sure cops were on their beats and who alienated so many New Yorkers by zealously enforcing the unpopular and widely d In Morris\u2019 second volume we are introduced to President Roosevelt. He is a far more seasoned and mature person than the TR described in the first volume. While still given to outbursts and instantaneous action, he displays political astuteness and an ability to balance his impulsiveness with pragmatism. No longer is TR the NY City Police Commissioner who walked the streets making sure cops were on their beats and who alienated so many New Yorkers by zealously enforcing the unpopular and widely disregarded Sunday alcohol laws. Nor is he the Civil Service Commissioner who personally investigated cases of the pervasive corruption of the patronage system without regard for the political consequences he would bear. His hardheaded sense of duty gives way to a nuanced rationality. The changed TR is captured by newspaperman Henry Herzberg in 1903, \u201cMr. Roosevelt is bold and fearless yet timid and wary; he is ambitious and striving, but circumspect and cautious. He is imperious in mind, but thoughtful and considerate in action.\u201d By 1906 TR is playing the political game with a style easily recognized today. As Morris points out, \u201cRoosevelt\u2019s by now compulsive habit of following every statement with a counterstatement (positives neutralizing negatives and on the other hand used as a kind if conjunction) muted the overall effect of his speech.\u201d In foreign policy TR demonstrates a new deftness, forestalling the German and British impending attack on Venezuela and skillfully avoiding conflict with patient diplomacy. This new TR is in stark contrast to the one who a few years earlier was a jingoist Assistant Secretary of the Navy salivating in anticipation of the Spanish American war. While he resorts to forceful intimidation of Columbia to support the Panamanian revolution and secure the Canal Zone in 1903, in stark contrast he grants Cuba its independence in 1902 and settles the Philippine war with amnesty for all combatants. His adroit handling of the Russo-Japanese peace negotiations in 1905 wins him a Noble Peace Prize. His restraint and mediation ability shine in 1906 when he avoids direct involvement in the Tangier crisis and convinces France to hold a peace conference with Germany at Algeciras to resolve a conflict which threatens war in Europe. In domestic policy TR is similarly adept. He champions breaking up the giant trusts such as Standard Oil and the Northern Securities Company which controls major railroads. He initiates a role for the federal government in regulating railroad rates. He takes on Wall Street carefully never going so far as to permanently alienate this powerful Republican constituency, presenting the argument that if nothing is done, the common people will revolt and put Progressive Democrats in control. He applies the same mediation skill to labor disputes that was effective in foreign disputes, most notably the 1902 anthracite coal miner\u2019s strike that threatens a nation facing a winter without fuel. His political polish is recognized. Writes the Washington Post in 1906, \u201c\u2026that he has more political acumen in one lobe of his brain than the whole militant tribe of American politicians have in their combined intelligence; that his political perception, so acute as to amount almost to divination, is superior to that of any American statesman of the present or immediate past era.\u201d As his presidency enters its last years more and more he embraces the growing Progressive movement. He wins passage of the Meat Inspection Act, Pure Food and Drug Act and Railroad Rate Regulation act in 1906. Perhaps his greatest legacy lies in his conservation efforts. His establishment of the many national parks, national monuments and national forest reserves is based on a reverence for nature unique among Washington politicians. His deep love of the wild means he values its salvation so much that he does not flinch in taking on the money interests dominating Washington bent on its destruction for quarterly profits. His 1907 Message to Congress proposes graduated inheritance and income taxes. His 1908 Special Message to Congress directly attacks corporate greed, \u201cThe vast individual and corporate fortunes, the vast combinations of capital which have marked the development of our industrial system, create new conditions, and necessitate a change from the old attitude of the State and the Nation toward the rules regulating the acquisition and untrammeled business use of property.\u201d Even famous muckraking author Upton Sinclair and Democratic Progressive leader William Jennings Bryan approve. In the Message he pushes for and eventually gets meaningful employer liability and workman\u2019s compensation laws. He calls for extending the Interstate Commerce Commission\u2019s authority to financial supervision of railroads. Later he invites Bryan, someone in the past he had ridiculed, to a dinner at the White House and after a long conversation calls him, \u201ca wonderful man\u201d. If TR had wanted a third term he could have easily had it with widespread support despite the strong reservations of Wall Street and the Old Guard. The foregoing are just a few highlights. Morris covers much, much more. TR is constantly challenged as he crafts new policies to cope with the rapid social, economic and technological change that is quickly transitioning the United States from an insular rural society to an industrial age world power. TR meets the challenge, he not only grows into the job, he continues to grow with the job. While Morris is an excellent writer, all the details can get a bit dry at times. But if one is to truly understand the man and the period, they are all probably necessary. And to understand American history it is important to understand this gifted man and what his remarkable ability to lead meant to America and its future. ...more This, the middle book of a three book trilogy, is focused solely on Theodore Roosevelt's presidency. The book is exellent. Richly detailed in all that happened during his presidency. The book captures more than a presidency but also the man himself, his energy, his faults and his strengths. Paired with the first book, this makes a wonderful duology. However, if you are just looking to read about his presidency, this is book can just be read on its own. I simply learned that TR was a bad ass, plain and simple. I am sorry, Obama, Clinton, and Bush, this guy makes you look like the janitor of America. I think he may be the only president who could help us open the greatest canal in the world's history, help thwart a recession (very similar to ours today) by telling the rich people, \"Hey you like making money? Then you save Wall Street, not the government!\", create the greatest group of fighters, The rough riders, and have many life stories such a I simply learned that TR was a bad ass, plain and simple. I am sorry, Obama, Clinton, and Bush, this guy makes you look like the janitor of America. I think he may be the only president who could help us open the greatest canal in the world's history, help thwart a recession (very similar to ours today) by telling the rich people, \"Hey you like making money? Then you save Wall Street, not the government!\", create the greatest group of fighters, The rough riders, and have many life stories such as moving to Wyoming and tackling and killing a mountain tiger with a knife. Love him or hate him, this is a great look into TR. I only gave this four stars because the book does not cover his post presidency: His huge trip to Africa which is the only reason for most of our artifacts in our museums and his hatred for his successor Taft. He actually ran against Taft and came in second to Woodrow Wilson. Therefore, Taft is the only current incumbent of the presidency to come in third in a presidential election. ...more A brilliant biography. IT is hard to separate my love of Morris' second Roosevelt biography from my love of TR. The book captures the dynamo-President's force, eccentricities, and political skill while also accurately capturing the politics of the time and the rise of America's global power. Occasionally, a person enters the global stage with such energy, power, competence and audacity that it seems the earth moves for them and water separates. I can only think of a couple other leaders that cap A brilliant biography. IT is hard to separate my love of Morris' second Roosevelt biography from my love of TR. The book captures the dynamo-President's force, eccentricities, and political skill while also accurately capturing the politics of the time and the rise of America's global power. Occasionally, a person enters the global stage with such energy, power, competence and audacity that it seems the earth moves for them and water separates. I can only think of a couple other leaders that capture the Nietzsche' \u00dcbermensch ideal (Napoleon, Fredrick the Great, Alexander, Caesar, etc) as well. Even when Teddy wasn't super, he was still super lucky. ...more My second favorite President. Reading this, you may be struck at how he would be skewered by the Left today. Like Reagan, he seemed to have a natural understanding of his age and the important issues that needed to be addressed. He did it with strength, courage, resolve, and charisma. This book does a great job of following him from the earliest hours of assuming office and then staring down some of his most important battles. WALK SOFTLY AND CARRY A BIG STICK Morris places this African proverb at Roosevelt's feet in this second volume of the biography, and aptly so. President Roosevelt, who began using the phrase just before entering the White House, turned it into his mantra and he shifted the view of the United States, both within the borders of its territory and amongst the international community. The ongoing expansion of my knowledge of historical figures has me tackling the presidential period of Roosevelt's life WALK SOFTLY AND CARRY A BIG STICK Morris places this African proverb at Roosevelt's feet in this second volume of the biography, and aptly so. President Roosevelt, who began using the phrase just before entering the White House, turned it into his mantra and he shifted the view of the United States, both within the borders of its territory and amongst the international community. The ongoing expansion of my knowledge of historical figures has me tackling the presidential period of Roosevelt's life, two terms so full of information and international saga that it is hard to have compacted them into a single book. Morris again uses extensive research to lay out strong narratives and to examine some of the key themes throughout, drawing threads related to many happenings in Roosevelt's presidency. Leading the narrative through these themes--American race relations, forging the American superpower persona, and carving out strong national sustaining policies--Morris depicts Roosevelt as both a man eager to make a name for his country and to push it into the 20th century, prepared to face any challenge. The second volume, reviewed here, encompasses the presidential life of Theodore Roosevelt from 1901 through to 1909. Morris begins the narrative with a wonderful bridging of Roosevelt's vice-presidential period, a mere six months, and the announcement of McKinley's assassination, thrusting him into the role of POTUS. Early in his presidency, Roosevelt began to tackle the issue of race relations within the United States. At times subtly, Morris ensures the reader is aware that many of the politicians who surround themselves with Roosevelt (party leaders, senators, stalwarts) might have fought in the Civil War or remembered its passionate division. Roosevelt was, therefore, enveloped by opinion on the matter, whether he liked it or not. Early meetings with the likes of Booker Washington led to scandalous press reports and strongly worded criticisms of the president. While lynchings were not yet unheard of, Roosevelt moved forward to forge strong race relations, primarily between the African American population [please excuse any misuse of proper race titles] and their white counterparts. Roosevelt sought to push ahead and nominate many African Americans to positions of authority in their respective states, in hopes of diminishing the animosity. This did, for lack of a better word, add kindling to the fire and saw the states lash out and segments of the Republican Party to threaten his re-election should he not stop. I could not help but think of Robert Caro's third (?) volume of his LBJ biography, when the Senate Majority Leader sought to forge ahead with racial integration laws, fighting a powerful Democratic south in the Senate, where LBJ would not let up and kept pushing for race relations into his time as president. The parallel that came to mind was that, when push came to shove, Roosevelt would not push. He chose to go only as far as he could to help, but not far enough to sacrifice his own success. Morris's illustration of early race relations moved on to tackle the Cuban population (as he was front and centre in the Spanish-American War), Japanese workers either detained or forced to leave the country, and even a small mention of the aboriginal population of the western states, some of whom wandered into the Union. Morris does not paint Roosevelt as the saviour of the races, stitching together the quilt of equality, but he did lay some groundwork to begin these discussions, a foundation on which LBJ surely forged his groundbreaking strategies sixty years later. Morris also explores the birth of the United States as a superpower, a newly coined phrase at the time. While European powers had dominated for centuries and the Ottoman Empire was still holding on, America came out of its Civil War battered and bruised, unsure of how and where it wanted to go. Pushing the Spanish back to 'free' Cuba and the Philippines, Roosevelt and the United States (he was still not in the White House at this point) began to show the American desire to cut the shackles of the 'oppressed' and to free them into the land of democratic freedom (call it the Dubya way of thinking, where 'democracy is the only thing a state wants on the menu, no matter its insistence that they are fine). As Roosevelt and his numerous congresses moved ahead to create a canal for use in the Western Hemisphere, the debate between one in Nicaragua or Panama (part of Columbia at the time) became prevalent. Here, Roosevelt let his congressional leaders choose the locale and focus on which made the most sense. After choosing Panama, it became a drawn-out negotiated affair to not only enter into treaty negotiations with the Columbians, but also to ensure the space could be paid for without issue. After negotiations entered rocky terms and with Panamanians wishing to toss off the shackles of their oppressors (Panama being a state of Columbia for a while), Roosevelt stood by and prayed that America would be able to forge a deal with the eventual victors in this quasi-civil war. Doing so, he created the Panama Canal, with its 99 year lease, and placed America on the map. His largest claim to fame on the superpower front would have to be engineering the final peace armistice between Russia and Japan in their war over what I am led to believe was the Korean Peninsula (pardon me if I am confused, as audio books can sometimes drone on in sections and flipping back requires overly dextrous fingers of which I do not possess). Earning the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts, Roosevelt and America showed that they were ready to enter the international theatre as the newly minted leaders they eventually came to be. This lasted for upwards of a century, until the George W Bush gaffes led many to realise superpowers turn despotic with age (a la Britain and the Ottomans). Morris's third theme is highly intriguing to readers who've made the effort to read both volumes of the biography. While a young Roosevelt was always interested in understanding all that grew or developed around him, Morris comes full circle in accentuating the passion Roosevelt felt towards conservation and natural resource development. Known by some as the Father of American Conservation policy, Roosevelt forged into the policy wilderness to create National Park policy and legislation that stands even today. Taking his love for flora and fauna, Roosevelt ensured it could be enjoyed by all for decades to come, and did so in a way that accentuated the various parts of the United States. Inter-state commerce surely rose because of this, as did the allure of the United States to the outside world. While not on the same plane, Roosevelt's involvement in the coal mine disputes in Pennsylvania sought to formulate strong policy on union and natural resource policy by the White House. Labour disputes had not regularly been the business of the president, but Roosevelt made it his business, with a desire to strengthen America in a time when political tensions helped pull strong states apart. Morris's keen means by which he draws this parallel is quite useful and poignant to the perceptive reader. It is worth noting that the volume is not equally divided between the two administrations. One who reads the volume with a passing glance would see the time and effort put into the first administration and how, even for the listener, the second administration passes as swiftly as a ride on a roller-coaster. While brevity may be an unfortunate occurrence in the second part of the book, its content is no less interesting, as Roosevelt wrestles with his coming major decision about seeking a third term or not. While this is surely a thought shared by his fifth cousin, eventually, Theodore chooses not to seek his party's nomination and his last six months in office leave him introspective and wondering about life after the White House. A man not yet a half century old, Morris paints Roosevelt as a man full of vigour and ready for another fight. The perfect segue into the final volume of the Theodore Roosevelt biography. As the Roosevelt journey continues, kudos continue for Mr. Morris. An excellent depiction of the White House years of a very quirky and intuitive man. ...more Theodore Roosevelt was a larger-than-life president and Theodore Rex is a Teddy-sized biography to match his presidency. The text itself bears 554 pages and the bibliography/notes comprise another 150 or so. And that's with the subject covering just the (slightly less than) 8 years of his terms. What struck me the most is how smoothly his presidency went. The closest thing to a war during TR's time was in supporting the Panamanian Revolution, during which a single person died when a Colombian gun Theodore Roosevelt was a larger-than-life president and Theodore Rex is a Teddy-sized biography to match his presidency. The text itself bears 554 pages and the bibliography/notes comprise another 150 or so. And that's with the subject covering just the (slightly less than) 8 years of his terms. What struck me the most is how smoothly his presidency went. The closest thing to a war during TR's time was in supporting the Panamanian Revolution, during which a single person died when a Colombian gunboat shelled Panama City. By contrast, his accomplishments are numerous; the Panama Canal, increased rights for workers, environmental protections, a brokered peace between Japan and Russia, trust-busting and all the while overseeing a burgeoning economy and increased standing around the globe. He won re-election easily for himself and just as easily for Taft, his chosen successor. His progressive policies made him many enemies among the wealthy elite, but he was so popular they couldn't hurt him. 'Nobody likes him now but the people,' one ambassador quipped near the end. To put things in perspective, one of the most frustrating moments for Roosevelt came when his administration WON a major trust-busting Supreme Court case because the decision was narrow, and because a good friend of his on the court dissented. Even Roosevelt's biggest failure as president illustrates how forward-thinking he was. When he hosted Booker T. Washington for dinner early in his term, the press reaction was so vile (barely concealed racism from the Northern papers and hideous slurs from the Southern ones) that no African-American would be invited to the White House for another 30 years. You'd struggle to write a movie-script about TR's presidency despite his engaging personality and wilderness adventures. Things went too well; there's too little tension, too little loss to serve as counterpoint to the accomplishments. There would be troubles down the road; a falling out with Taft and a failed 'Bull Moose' political party. But when his presidency was newly ended, it must have felt like a casual stroll into a glorious sunset. ...more http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2015/... \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d is the second volume in Edmund Morris\u2019s highly acclaimed three-volume biography of Theodore Roosevelt. The series\u2019 inaugural volume debuted in 1979 but more than two decades elapsed before this second volume was published in 2001. Morris spent much of that time working on his now-infamous memoir of Ronald Reagan. \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d conveniently picks up where \u201cThe Rise of Theodore Roosevelt\u201d left off \u2013 with Vice President Roosevelt receiving word http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2015/... \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d is the second volume in Edmund Morris\u2019s highly acclaimed three-volume biography of Theodore Roosevelt. The series\u2019 inaugural volume debuted in 1979 but more than two decades elapsed before this second volume was published in 2001. Morris spent much of that time working on his now-infamous memoir of Ronald Reagan. \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d conveniently picks up where \u201cThe Rise of Theodore Roosevelt\u201d left off \u2013 with Vice President Roosevelt receiving word of President McKinley\u2019s imminent death and his inheritance of the presidency. The first forty pages cover his breathless dash from a remote cabin in the Adirondack Mountains to take the oath of office in Buffalo. The remainder of this biography covers his almost eight-year presidency in extensive and attentive \u2013 if not uniformly fascinating \u2013 depth. Similar to its predecessor volume, \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d is unpretentious but erudite. It feels like a biography written by a keen observer of people, and events, rather than one authored by an ivory-tower academic. But readers who appreciate Morris\u2019s reputation for careful research will not be disappointed. Countless letters, newspaper articles, diary entries and other sources are parsed in search of unique insights and critical observations. At times, its 555 pages are dense and detailed \u2013 and yet this volume lacks the heavy-handed scholastic impression that often accompanies a book with more than 160 pages of endnotes. And the author often allows Roosevelt\u2019s own words to speak on his behalf, providing a sense the biography has tapped directly into the mind of this whirling dervish. Focused exclusively on Roosevelt\u2019s presidency, \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d lacks much of the excitement and adventure of the first volume. But this is hardly surprising; the tedious grind of managing the nation\u2019s affairs can hardly compete with the rambunctious exploits of Roosevelt\u2019s intrepid youth and his early career. But Morris makes up for this lack of similarly-spirited raw material by refining his writing style. Where the first volume was often clunky and cumbersome, this installment is more elegant and sophisticated. Interminable sentences no longer punctuate each page and the author\u2019s masterful talent for scene-setting has been perfected. Morris\u2019s ability to capture a person\u2019s essence in one or two paragraphs is breathtaking. Unfortunately, though, Morris falls short in fully covering Roosevelt\u2019s family and other contemporaries. His wife and children make infrequent appearances and there is a relative lack of focus on important advisers (and adversaries) whose political or personal orbits intersected with his own. It almost seems as though TR proves such a commanding presence that no one else can be afforded much time on the stage. And although Morris provides a brief (and useful) glance at Roosevelt\u2019s political legacy in the book\u2019s final pages, a deeper and more satisfying discussion of his impact on the presidency is lacking. Or perhaps Theodore Roosevelt\u2019s lasting impression on history is so self-evident it does not require elaboration? Overall, \u201cTheodore Rex\u201d is an admirable and satisfying successor to \u201cThe Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.\u201d There is little doubt it lacks the drama and intensity of the first volume and is far more prone to dry, serious moments. But this second volume of Morris\u2019s series performs a valuable service, providing an interesting and thoughtful historical narrative if not so much an interpretation of Theodore Roosevelt\u2019s presidency. Overall rating: 4\u00bc stars ...more I read this book primarily to get a different perspective of Theodore Roosevelt than that provided by James Bradley in his work, The Imperial Cruise: A True Story of Empire and War. In the latter, the author left a stinging picture of TR, describing him as an egomaniac, racist and staunch xenophobe. Morris's portrait is less striking - and portrays a strong, fair and popular leader who vacillated between conservative and progressive political opinions. The dichotomy between the two accounts must I read this book primarily to get a different perspective of Theodore Roosevelt than that provided by James Bradley in his work, The Imperial Cruise: A True Story of Empire and War. In the latter, the author left a stinging picture of TR, describing him as an egomaniac, racist and staunch xenophobe. Morris's portrait is less striking - and portrays a strong, fair and popular leader who vacillated between conservative and progressive political opinions. The dichotomy between the two accounts must be that Morris focuses primarily on domestic affairs (although America's involvement in the Sino - Japanese War negotiations, the Kaiser's obsession with Moroccan affairs and Latin and South American politics - specific as they related to the Panama Canal Treaty) while Bradley stayed intent on the Pacific Theater and U.S. relations with Japan in the early 20th century. It was in the Pacific Theater that Roosevelt's imperialistic and overt racism and belief in Western supremacy was obvious - resulting in a true negative perception of TR and his bully pulpit Administration. Morris focused on domestic policy and where necessary, spoke to foreign activities (Panama Canal Treaty, European divisions and Japanese militaristic behavior) through American eyes, thus providing a more positive interpretation of the President and his Administration. Upon completion, I was left with two thoughts. First, one cannot assess persons or events based on a single telling - but rather, opinions should result from a synthesis of information. Succinctly stated: There is always a second side to the same story. Second (and lastly), the American political culture has not changed in two hundred and fifty years. The same intra and inter - party squabbles that exist today, were evident in earlier times. Vitriolic and abusive political diatribes are found throughout history, to the extent that one cannot, in good conscience, consider the current political dialogue unique or unprecedented. It's actually a calming realization - to accept that the vitriol and bile that emanates from inside the Beltway today existing long before the construction of the massive thoroughfare. It can be found in any era - and especially during the TR years - regardless of one's character assessment of the man. ...more Theodore Rex by Edmund Morris from Modern Library is the second in a three volume biography of the 26th President of the United States. The first volume The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography in 1980, setting high expectations for the rest of the series. In my opinion, this book easily meets those expectations. This is a fantastic biography, in which Mr. Morris does an excellent job of bringing Theodore Roosevelt's presidency to life. This prologue of Theodore Rex by Edmund Morris from Modern Library is the second in a three volume biography of the 26th President of the United States. The first volume The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography in 1980, setting high expectations for the rest of the series. In my opinion, this book easily meets those expectations. This is a fantastic biography, in which Mr. Morris does an excellent job of bringing Theodore Roosevelt's presidency to life. This prologue of the book starts with the death of President McKinley on September 14th, 1901, and the epilogue is March 4th, 1909, the day he hands the Presidency over to Taft. In-between is a well researched, richly entertaining discussion of his time in the White House. It covers not only the actions, but the decisions, the political feeling in the country at the time. Mr. Morris does an outstanding job of providing the entire scope of the events, and presents them in a way that makes the reader feel as if he is observing them at the time they are occurring. The perspective one gets on race issues, labor vs. business, and North vs. South during that period, is excellent. Also well discussed is the near war with Germany, and a understanding of the relationship between the U.S. and Japan that would ultimately result in war when a different Roosevelt was in office nearly 40 years later. I received this book as a gift, and read it without first reading The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. From that perspective, I can say that this book does not require the reading of the first volume, but that I expect that doing so would enhance the experience. I certainly intend to go back and read the first book, and look forward to reading the third as well. Theodore Rex easily earns 5 stars. ...more All biographers should be this passionate about their subjects. Morris paints a detailed portrait of a tumultuous presidency with compassion and verve. At times, however, the book falls into melodrama (not that TR wasn't a character worthy of it) and amounts to a biographical blow job. While I admire the depth of research that is so evident, some glossing over faults and aggrandizing go down in Theodore Rex that made me scowl. I mean, the title sort of says it all. Well-written, but over the top All biographers should be this passionate about their subjects. Morris paints a detailed portrait of a tumultuous presidency with compassion and verve. At times, however, the book falls into melodrama (not that TR wasn't a character worthy of it) and amounts to a biographical blow job. While I admire the depth of research that is so evident, some glossing over faults and aggrandizing go down in Theodore Rex that made me scowl. I mean, the title sort of says it all. Well-written, but over the top. ...more Mighty! The book, the subject, the author, the research, the story, the effects of this administration, the depth of the errors when errors were made, the president-congress battles, the sheer amount of interesting things one learns while reading this book -- all are mighty. Edmund Morris's second installment of the proposed Theodore Roosevelt trilogy is a worthy follow-up to \"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.\" This book covers his Presidency years, from 1901 to 1909. It is a portrait of a good-natured, scrupulous patrician with progressive instincts who became the dominant politician of his age. His personal beliefs were founded on the gilded age of the late-nineteenth century, with its excesses and growing sense of America's dominant position in the world. Yet, he r Edmund Morris's second installment of the proposed Theodore Roosevelt trilogy is a worthy follow-up to \"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.\" This book covers his Presidency years, from 1901 to 1909. It is a portrait of a good-natured, scrupulous patrician with progressive instincts who became the dominant politician of his age. His personal beliefs were founded on the gilded age of the late-nineteenth century, with its excesses and growing sense of America's dominant position in the world. Yet, he ran his presidency with a belief in relieving the working class of the burdens of unbridled labor abuses, breaking up business trusts which controlled America's economy, and preserving nature's most beautiful places from exploitation. There was an awful lot going on, both domestically and internationally, at this time. Morris does a great job of explaining the history of the times in the Roosevelt era without leaving the reader feeling overwhelmed by all this turn-of-the-century history. A highlight of the first term was the Administration's successful antitrust suit to dissolve the Northern Securities Company. Roosevelt ordered the Sherman Act, formerly used to regulate labor, to be used against business monopolies. In this first case, the government won against the huge railroad trust run by E.H. Harriman and James W. Hill. It became the first of 45 antitrust suits against trusts by this president, who wasn't afraid of the political costs involved. During this time, the United States recognized the Republic of Panama's secession from Columbia, and Roosevelt led the effort to sign a treaty to build the canal. This would be one of the greatest triumphs of his presidency; the canal was completed in 1914. Five national parks were created in this first administration, including Crater Lake. The fuel which heated most homes in the northern part of the country, including those in all of the major cities, was Anthracite coal, primarily mined in Northeast Pennsylvania. The owners of the mines were an oligarchy which got very rich off the backs of the miners, who were mostly Eastern European immigrants working under extremely dangerous, unhealthy conditions underground for low wages. John Lewis led the effort to unionize the workers. In 1902, the labor unrest of the miners came to a head in Pennsylvania, leading to a coal strike which threatened to make the next winter very difficult for many Americans. Roosevelt established a labor dispute precedent by getting the U.S. government involved as a neutral arbitrator. He established a conference consisting of representatives of government, labor and management, and arbitrated a settlement. For the first time, labor was elevated to a status equal with management in bargaining, and John Lewis became a revered figure whose photograph would hang in many coal miners' homes for generations. Roosevelt was reelected in November, 1904. He continued using the law to provide means to preserve threatened natural treasures through the establishment of four Federal Game Preserves, including the Grand Canyon. The National Monuments Act upgraded Grand Canyon and created seventeen other Monuments, including Muir Woods, Devils Tower and Mount Olympus. Roosevelt's most significant foreign policy accomplishment during his second term involved his efforts to mediate for the cessation of hostilities in the Russo-Japanese War. He was instrumental in establishing the Portsmouth Treaty of 1905 which ended the war. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for this accomplishment. The President never failed to become involved in family activities despite his busy schedule of peacemaking and trust busting. A fascinating picture emerges as the patriarch who in many ways was just a big kid when he could relax with family. Theodore's children to his second marriage ranged from school-age to college students at this time; oldest child, Alice, was married in 1906 to Ohio Congressman Nicholas Longworth in an extravagant White House wedding. Morris describes how Roosevelt would take breaks from the Oval Office to romp with his children upstairs. He was an honorary member of the mischievous \"Gang\", a club which used the White House attic as its base. Headed by his son Quentin, it was composed of what Morris calls \"an elite cadre of Washington's most subversive small boys.\" Roosevelt's progressive, competent administration of his duties continued to pay off with benefits that future generations would enjoy. Morris documents many such triumphs, but also, no doubt, the most regressively mean-spirited presidential travesty of race relations mismanagement in the twentieth century. It resulted after the Army transferred several companies of black soldiers from Nebraska to Brownsville, Texas. The outrage of the white citizens of Brownsville to having blacks placed into their community by the government was heard all the way to the White House. The situation came to a head when the public friction caused by the local citizens' racial taunting of the soldiers boiled over into a riot. Some black soldiers were involved in the hostilities, and the majority of the non-participating soldiers apparently refused to turn over the names of their friends for prosecution. Roosevelt's decision was to issue a Special Order discharging all 160 black soldiers. No trials were held on the evidence of the flimsy case against the soldiers, all of whom had served their country honorably (three of them were Medal of Honor recipients). It is not known if Roosevelt thought better of his actions at a later date. Someone who displayed extreme every-day self-confidence to the extent of Roosevelt was not the type to admit error. What made this deplorable action an anomaly for Roosevelt was his previous attempts to act in an even-handed manner on several occasions, regardless of public feelings toward race. As early as 1901, he made history by inviting a black man to dinner at the White House. This was a presidential first. The guest was Booker T. Washington, founder of Tuskegee Institute. It's not that Roosevelt was especially enlightened; Morris makes the point that his racial attitudes were influenced by \"the Georgian blood of his unreconstructed mother..\" (p. 52), but he also had a firm sense of fair play that said an individual, even, or especially, a black man who advanced in society beyond his racial peers was entitled to be respected with democracy's privileges. In the view of Roosevelt and most of his fellow white Americans, the great majority of blacks were not deserving of enfranchisement; the difference with Roosevelt, according to Morris, was that he believed this perceived \"inferiority\" was something that could be overcome, and not inherent in the race. This offer of hospitality created a great deal of good faith with the nation's black population, at least until the 1906 Brownsville incident. Elsewhere, especially in the Southern newspapers, the president's \"race mingling\" was condemned in the most scurilous terms. He would later stir up the passions of Southern and Northern race baiters by naming Dr. William D. Crum to be the Collector of Customs in Charleston, S.C., and, for the first time in memory, naming a black to a Northern federal appointment, as the Assistant District Attorney of Boston. Roosevelt could thus make decisions that ran contrary to what his supporters expected from him. His most momentous was the decision to not run for reelection in 1908, thus leaving the Republican Presidential slot to be filled by his vice-president, William Howard Taft. How he would come to rue the day he allowed Taft to take over the party he worked so hard to lead, and then try to wrest power back into his hands, is the story of another book. Judging by the quality of Morris's first two installments of Roosevelt's life, the final book should be worth the wait. ...more Edmund Morris begins Theodore Rex, the second installment of his biographical trilogy, within hours of where he ended of The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. The prologue shows Roosevelt's journey first to Buffalo then escorting his slain predecessor's body to Washington for a public memorial. Morris transitions to the main text of the biography when Roosevelt's main duty as President changes from \"Chief Mourner\" to Chief Executive, and the book then be divided in two corresponding to Roosevelt's two Edmund Morris begins Theodore Rex, the second installment of his biographical trilogy, within hours of where he ended of The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. The prologue shows Roosevelt's journey first to Buffalo then escorting his slain predecessor's body to Washington for a public memorial. Morris transitions to the main text of the biography when Roosevelt's main duty as President changes from \"Chief Mourner\" to Chief Executive, and the book then be divided in two corresponding to Roosevelt's two terms. The first section of the book, detailed the first three and a half years of Roosevelt's presidency and is the strong section of the book. Morris not only relates Roosevelt's innate political skill in dealing with older and more conservative members of the GOP in Congress he had to interact with, but also his belief that as President he needed to do things none of his predecessors had done including cultivating a relationship with the press on an unprecedented scale. Morris' goes into great detail about both domestic and foreign topics that Roosevelt dealt with, in particular battling trusts and Panama. Throughout this period, Roosevelt also outmaneuvered any possible rival for the Republican nomination in 1904 then got elected in dominating fashion. After the election of 1904, the book's second section begins and there seems to be a shift that becomes noticeable as one reads. While the first section of the book is full of action, the second is sedate by comparison. As Morris explains in the book, because of the way Congress met basically all of 1905 was void of the anything meaningful happening on the domestic front while Roosevelt was active in foreign affairs. But even though this in mind, the fact that not until late 1907 or early 1908 does there seem to be as much activity as what happens in the first section. A important reason is that Morris' touches upon Roosevelt most enduring legacy, his conservationism in establish national parks and monuments for future generations. By the end of the book, Morris has imparted that the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt has transformative not only for the office but Constitutionally as well to the consternation of long-time legislators who believed Congress should have more power than the President. However Morris never outright states this, instead he gives all the evidence of this throughout the book giving the reader a clear picture of this transformative period in American history. If you are interested in Theodore Roosevelt, early Twentieth Century politics, or American history in general I wholeheartedly recommend this book. ...more Although it took me nearly a year to finish this book, it is no fault of the author: from the moment of TR's assumption of the Presidency following McKinley's assasination (the account of which really drew me in) until the end of the second term, Edmund Morris not only gives a detailed account of Roosevelt's presidency (oh, now I see why he joins Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln on Mt. Rushmore), but of his personal life and the times in which he lived. He was a fitness fanatic, constantly inj Although it took me nearly a year to finish this book, it is no fault of the author: from the moment of TR's assumption of the Presidency following McKinley's assasination (the account of which really drew me in) until the end of the second term, Edmund Morris not only gives a detailed account of Roosevelt's presidency (oh, now I see why he joins Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln on Mt. Rushmore), but of his personal life and the times in which he lived. He was a fitness fanatic, constantly injuring himself in macho strength contests, but he also read fanatically, of the classics and world history. So many things we take for granted today were personal initiatives of TR: national parks and forests, conservation of natural resources, regulation of the food and drug industry, and taking on the robber barons and establishing federal control over interstate commerce. In foreign affairs, he brough Russia and Japan together in New Hampshire to end the Russo-Japanese war (and received the Nobel Peace Prize for this effort). He recognized the emerging power of Japan and sent the US Navy around the world for the first time to demonstrate US Power. And of course there is the Teddy Bear (page 174) and the Panama Canal. What is brought forth here and is so astonishing is the establishment of the US as a (the?) major world power, only a few decades after the Civil War. Also evident from reading this book are the eternal, and depressing themes of racism (TR invited Booker T. Washington to the White House for dinner, and was criticized heavily for this friendship), polarizing politics (Roosevelt was criticized as a socialist for his progressive agenda), and terrorism (anarchists abounded at the time). Almost two hundred pages of the book are footnotes and citations (a testimonial to Morris' thoroughness) , often with further interesting material: do not overlook these when you read this excellent biography. ...more Nothing can match exhilaration of Morris's first volume in this series, The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt ,\" if only because the material here is politics and domestic life instead of the almost unbelievable adventure story of Roosevelt's youth and early adulthood. Morris opts for an intense close-up of Roosevelt as president here, and he captures the texture of the time in a way few writers have achieved. But at a price: Morris rately steps back to provide any extended discussion about the broader s Nothing can match exhilaration of Morris's first volume in this series, The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt ,\" if only because the material here is politics and domestic life instead of the almost unbelievable adventure story of Roosevelt's youth and early adulthood. Morris opts for an intense close-up of Roosevelt as president here, and he captures the texture of the time in a way few writers have achieved. But at a price: Morris rately steps back to provide any extended discussion about the broader social and political currents of the time, even the Progressive Movement of which Roosevelt was the avatar. But in capturing Roosevelt whole, in his intensity, blood lust (battle and hunting), shrewd diplomacy, imperialism, political maneuvering, and intellectual force, Morris has no peer. One element, perhaps oddly, oppressed me throughout: the sheer intensity and ugliness of Southern racism. This was era of Jim Crow, of course, and Roosevelt, a man of his time, had no doubts about the superiority of whites, coupled with a completely paternalistic attitute toward African Americans. But he was at least capable of treating black Americans as human beings (and an important part of the Republican coalition, of course, as the party of Lincoln). But to read of the screaming hysteria in the Southern press when Roosevelt invited Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House takes your breath away. Not to mention the lynchings that were almost always ignored and unpunished. In a way, this book helped me to understand how extraordinary the achievements of the 20th century were. ...more I've been fascinated by Theodore Roosevelt since I was a kid. Morris has written a compelling biography that captures many facets of TR's complex personality, focused in this volume on his years as President. Morris has done his research, making good use of primary sources (diaries, letters, papers, memoirs) to recreate day-by-day and even hour-by-hour scenes of Roosevelt making decisions, negotiating with legislators, ambassadors, and heads of state, talking (he was a non-stop talker) with frie I've been fascinated by Theodore Roosevelt since I was a kid. Morris has written a compelling biography that captures many facets of TR's complex personality, focused in this volume on his years as President. Morris has done his research, making good use of primary sources (diaries, letters, papers, memoirs) to recreate day-by-day and even hour-by-hour scenes of Roosevelt making decisions, negotiating with legislators, ambassadors, and heads of state, talking (he was a non-stop talker) with friends and acquaintances, and traveling, playing, reading, and writing. (He surely ranks as one of the top 5 best-read Presidents we've had, and probably the most prolific writer.) I didn't find a dull page in the book. I still am not sure what I think of TR. He had great moral integrity--but he was also prone to racism, defensive when criticized, and a first-rate politician. He did NOT see himself as an idealist (he scorned people who weren't pragmatic). But he disturbed conservative Republicans and capitalists because, as Morris points out, he did not see money as the ultimate goal for himself or our society and believed in strong federal regulation of business and trade. As the book ends, Roosevelt seems to be moving in a more progressive direction; it would have been interesting to see what he would have done with a second elected term, which he could have had for the asking. I strongly recommend this book if you have any interest in TR, this period of US history, and human nature. ...more not as good as the first book in the trilogy ( The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt ), but then it's hard to imagine how that would be possible. less punch-out narrative here, likely because even so ursine a character as the Knickerbocker can't get away as President with all the roughhousing of a free citizen, l'outrance qui est dans sa nature notwithstanding. there's also a wider cast of characters here, despite fewer pages; they tend to enter, drive disparate drama for a score of pages, and leave. i w not as good as the first book in the trilogy ( The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt ), but then it's hard to imagine how that would be possible. less punch-out narrative here, likely because even so ursine a character as the Knickerbocker can't get away as President with all the roughhousing of a free citizen, l'outrance qui est dans sa nature notwithstanding. there's also a wider cast of characters here, despite fewer pages; they tend to enter, drive disparate drama for a score of pages, and leave. i was forced to turn to the index several times, which never happened in volume 1. still, well worth reading by any measure, though more on the level of Caro's LBJ books (though at least here you're assured conclusion of the work, whereas we're all wondering whether Caro will last through the fifth volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson ). i'd summarize by saying that The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt is required reading for all people, whereas Theodore Rex is optional, though i doubt anyone who reads the first volume will skip this one. i'm a bit worried about the third volume, though it's definitely in the on-deck circle. ...more Theodore Rex, the second in a three book set, tells the story of the presidency of Teddy Roosevelt. While most of the exciting adventure stories from TR\u2019s life are left for the two adjoining volumes, there is much to enjoy here. These pages tell of his great accomplishments, ranging from the construction of the Panama Canal, adding numerous National Parks, and becoming the trust buster. The reader will also enjoy discovering his lesser known foreign policy deeds, including receiving the Nobel Pe Theodore Rex, the second in a three book set, tells the story of the presidency of Teddy Roosevelt. While most of the exciting adventure stories from TR\u2019s life are left for the two adjoining volumes, there is much to enjoy here. These pages tell of his great accomplishments, ranging from the construction of the Panama Canal, adding numerous National Parks, and becoming the trust buster. The reader will also enjoy discovering his lesser known foreign policy deeds, including receiving the Nobel Peace Prize, dispatching the Great White Fleet, and preventing an Anglo-German invasion of Venezuela. And of course, there are the delightful anecdotes about Roosevelt\u2019s unique personality and behavior that never fail to deliver chuckles. *First read completed on 16 JAN 2012. Second read completed via Audible Books on 24 JAN 2016. Theodore Rex remains a compelling read the second time as well. ...more I hovered between 3 and 4 stars on this one. It was good, but it was also pretty slow. And I found the way he glossed over certain events very disconcerting. I know for the sake of making a book he's not going to be able to include every thing, but there were a few times when a throwaway parenthetical or aside contained pretty pivotal information. Also found the focus on Alice Roosevelt to be a little weird. Just the tone of it. Authordude was really obsessed with her figure at a couple points. A I hovered between 3 and 4 stars on this one. It was good, but it was also pretty slow. And I found the way he glossed over certain events very disconcerting. I know for the sake of making a book he's not going to be able to include every thing, but there were a few times when a throwaway parenthetical or aside contained pretty pivotal information. Also found the focus on Alice Roosevelt to be a little weird. Just the tone of it. Authordude was really obsessed with her figure at a couple points. Anyway, overall it was a very interesting look into a dynamic and historical Presidency. Also made me nostalgic for days when both the GOP and the Dems had seemingly logical and thought-out platforms. And not at all nostalgic for the days when people were racist little shits. ...more Recommended for all Teddy fanboys like myself. The writing was kind of the same as in the first volume, which was written about 20 years earlier, I think. The thing holding this book back was mostly the subject matter, which covers the presidency only. Teddy was doing lots and lots and lots of shit during this time, but a pretty good deal of it was pretty dry shit, pushing bills and signing things. I will, however, be getting Colonel Roosevelt soon. One more thing, WHY do people see him as a cons Recommended for all Teddy fanboys like myself. The writing was kind of the same as in the first volume, which was written about 20 years earlier, I think. The thing holding this book back was mostly the subject matter, which covers the presidency only. Teddy was doing lots and lots and lots of shit during this time, but a pretty good deal of it was pretty dry shit, pushing bills and signing things. I will, however, be getting Colonel Roosevelt soon. One more thing, WHY do people see him as a conservative war monger? He's such a socialist, and not a shot was fired in battle during his presidency. ...more Theodore Rex is an intriguing biography that captures Teddy Roosevelt\u2019s time as President. Providing insight into how he helped shape the country as well as changed the role of government. With the subject of man who in deed and opinion, never seemed to fatigue. I find it challenging to conceive a biography about him bogging down\u2026 However, Edmund Morris finds a way. To me, some of the superfluous detail and needless anecdotes slows the pace enough to wish for the end. I whole-heartedly recommend this to anyone interested in history, politics or competition of any kind. With his signature pince-nez and enormous grin, Theodore Roosevelt stands as one of the most recognized presidents even though it has been over a century since this \u201cdude\u201d from New York sat in the White House. Never one to stray from high drama, Edmund Morris begins this second volume with the assassination of William McKinley that suddenly propels Roosevelt to the heights of power. Hearing the news in tranquil isolation high in the Adirondacks, Roosevelt must descend the mud-slicked mountain ra With his signature pince-nez and enormous grin, Theodore Roosevelt stands as one of the most recognized presidents even though it has been over a century since this \u201cdude\u201d from New York sat in the White House. Never one to stray from high drama, Edmund Morris begins this second volume with the assassination of William McKinley that suddenly propels Roosevelt to the heights of power. Hearing the news in tranquil isolation high in the Adirondacks, Roosevelt must descend the mud-slicked mountain range by horse-drawn buckboard, only to bring him to a waiting train that would take him to Buffalo, New York where he would be sworn in as the 26th President of the United States. If the theme of the first volume was about climbing hills and mountains (both physically and politically), the second volume Theodore Rex is clearly about trains. Roosevelt\u2019s rise to power was dependent primarily on his own inner energy that drove him constantly forward and upward. Once he became president, Roosevelt would experience a major shift in propulsion. Much like the forward thrust of the presidential locomotive that carried the new president to Washington D.C. in the opening chapters, Roosevelt\u2019s political career was now pushed by different sources of energy (primarily constitutional) not of his own making. With a man who craved freedom to explore and test the limits of his physical body as well as his intellect, his discretionary time to pursue those exploits was now significantly reduced. As president, Roosevelt no longer had the luxury to venture on month-long hunting trips in the Dakotas, spend weeks writing heavy biographical tomes for his publishers, or consume stacks of books in his study. But he did manage to expend as much physical energy as he could from jumping naked into the Potomac to whacking tennis balls on grounds of the White House. If his political train was always running, he seemed to know on occasion how to let off excessive steam. Assuming the presidency upon the death of another president, Roosevelt was by no means a spent political force nor was he inhibited or self-conscious by his age (the youngest president ever at that point) to assume the reins of global power. But like many preceding presidents had realized, it was now his duty to carefully select, assess, and act to reconcile moving cogs and wheels in the political machine. And like many presidents since, there will always be public relation misfires mixed in with the successes. Were he president today, he would have been crippled by a less-forgiving modern media. Nevertheless, Roosevelt knew instinctively of the raw power of the media which was only natural coming from a prolific writer of biographies, historical volumes, and travel guides. As a \"modern\" president he had to contend with criticism constantly churning inside the press factories of William Randolph Hearst. In this new age of \"yellow journalism\" news stories seemed to thrive on sensationalism, a fickle electorate, and political cynics that prowled the halls of the Capitol. Yet Roosevelt seem confident and settled easily in the role of president despite his compulsion to act rashly, a weakness his enemies aimed at exploiting. However, it was only in rare moments did he betray feelings of frustration that he tried desperately to control. Trying to find the right balance between acting forcefully and remaining neutral is the juggling act that all persons of power must somehow execute and do so effortlessly. This book comes equipped with its own cast of supporting characters such as Philippe-Jean Bunau-Varilla and William Nelson Cromwell. They would be considered minor characters if it weren\u2019t for their influence on the world stage. The Panama Canal is one of Roosevelt\u2019s most enduring legacy even if the circumstances surrounding \u201cthe deal\u201d itself was immersed in controversy. Even for someone as adept as Roosevelt at making things happen, the grand scheme to link the two great oceans of this planet would require not only permission from Congress as well as public support, but also an insurrection in Panama and a volcanic eruption in Nicaragua. As America\u2019s influence grew as a serious global power, Roosevelt was able to adapt the presidency to these new realities. And despite his large personality and manic energy, Roosevelt could still appreciate the strategic nuances of geopolitical maneuvering especially when it came to ending war between Japan and Russia. Working behind the scenes, and understanding the needs of both parties, he was able to bring both Japan and Russia to the negotiating table thus ending a grinding conflict that produced no clear winner. His efforts were rewarded with a Nobel Peace Prize that is on display in the Roosevelt Room of the White House\u2019s West Wing. As with all men of power, Roosevelt\u2019s accomplishments eventually become weighed down by his sense of self-importance. One example was with his handling of the Brownsville affair, a racially charged incident where the president stubbornly stuck to a decision contrary to an kind of evidence. As his presidency came to a close, Roosevelt was determined that his successor would continue his progressive policies that would define his role in shaping America. The election of 1908 was a weird one. It had an outgoing president privately wishing he had run again, an incoming President Taft who would have rather have a seat on the Supreme Court, and poor Williams Jennings Bryan the three-time Democratic nominee for president and perennial presidential loser. Still, Roosevelt did not leave the White House in diminuendo like many presidents have done. Roosevelt brought an energy to the executive office with his big ideas and global achievements. He loved being president, and most people loved him. Many Americans, even those who had decried him as a lunatic, had a nagging sense of his absence which was further exacerbated by the entrance of the less colorful William Taft. ...more", "Title": "Theodore Rex"},
