{"Comments": "The Last War Intolerance is not an intrinsic feature, it is a derived one.<---F> Derived from threat</---F>. Threatened religions have always been intolerant, with no exceptions. And threatened societies have always been prone to adopt the militant versions of their religions,<---M> hoping to rally for one great push</---M>, one blind atrocity before they can resume their daily lives on the other side of the abyss. Media likes to portray this desperate rally as an obscenity, as a characteristic. And that is where brutally The Last War Intolerance is not an intrinsic feature, it is a derived one. Derived from threat. Threatened religions have always been intolerant, with no exceptions. And threatened societies have always been prone to adopt the militant versions of their religions, hoping to rally for one great push, one blind atrocity before they can resume their daily lives on the other side of the abyss. Media likes to portray this desperate rally as an obscenity, as a characteristic. And that is where brutally honest reportage, like Filkins' comes in. To show the world that these are human beings, desperate to survive, with equal right as anyone else to do so. To me this is perhaps the only good thing about American/European military presence in conflict-areas - it allows inside accounts like these that prove to be an important counterbalance against the dehumanizing invective of mainstream journalism. <+++>The Forever War</+++> Filkins, in this stunning (<---B>and exceptionally ballsy</---B>) piece of journalism, captures the continuing desolation of Post-Taliban Afghanistan and post-Saddam Iraq. Life goes on, obviously. But he also shows how difficult it is for the real people, living inside the event horizon, to see the 'progress' that historians love to see. For them nothing has changed. It is a \"Forever War\", for survival. They are never able to make up their mind if things were better before Taliban/Saddam or after. Like one woman explains, during those times it was as if one malignant sun rained down hatred on them, but it was possible to escape those deadly rays... but now, with the disintegration of al institutions and tribal/social orders, it is a continuos asteroid shower that destroys every shelter they might seek out. Life has been a spiral, and it shows no sign of letting up. Meanwhile a triumphalistic America prepares to \"leave them in their own capable hands\", having helped them out of tyranny. ...more This is a bleeding, personal image of real-world horror. Filkins dots his canvas largely in red, with the bloodshed he has seen in war, in Afghanistan, Iraq, on 9/11. The book is comprised of many short passages, images of participants, of events, that offer a visceral experience of these zones of death, deceit and confusion. He does not make pronouncements on what he has witnessed, but puts the images out there for the reader to absorb. This is a must read for anyone interested in the reality o This is a bleeding, personal image of real-world horror. Filkins dots his canvas largely in red, with the bloodshed he has seen in war, in Afghanistan, Iraq, on 9/11. The book is comprised of many short passages, images of participants, of events, that offer a visceral experience of these zones of death, deceit and confusion. He does not make pronouncements on what he has witnessed, but puts the images out there for the reader to absorb. This is a must read for anyone interested in the reality of 21st century war and 21st century war reporting. ================================== QUOTES p 73 - Some days I thought we had broken into a mental institution. One of the old ones, from the nineteenth century, where people were dumped and forgotten. It was like we had pried the doors off and found all these people clutching themselves and burying their heads in the corners and sitting in their own filth. It was useful to think of Iraq this way. It helped in your analysis. Murder and torture and sadism: it was part of Iraq. It was in people\u2019s brains. Sometimes I would walk into the newsroom that we had set up in the New York Times bureau in Baghdad, and I\u2019d find our Iraqi employees gathered around the television watching a torture video. You could buy them in the bazaars in Baghdad; they were left over from Saddam\u2019s time. The Iraqis would be watching them in silence. Just staring at the screen. In one of the videos, some Baath party men had pinned a man down on the floor and were holding his outstretched arms, while another official beat the man\u2019s forearms with a heavy metal pipe until his arm broke into two pieces. There was no sound in the video, but you could see that the man was screaming. None of the Iraqis in the newsroom said anything. I tried to recall these things when I got impatient with the Iraqis. Sometimes, when readers from America sent me e-mails expressing anger at the Iraqis\u2014why are they so ungrateful? Why can\u2019t they govern themselves?\u2014I considered sending them one of these videos. p 199 - Out there, the boundary between life and death shrank so much that it was little more than a membrane, thin and clear. ...more i was initially irritated by filkins refusal to widen focus and take in the broader picture, y\u2019know, the \u2018how\u2019 and \u2018why\u2019 behind the iraq war -- i wanted a top-down history starting with the geo-political chessboard and ending with boots on the ground. i was quick to realize i had put my own demands, the demands of a history book, on what is something entirely different. filkins knows that, generally speaking, the participants in wars (even in the age of internet, tivo, and cell phone) do not hav i was initially irritated by filkins refusal to widen focus and take in the broader picture, y\u2019know, the \u2018how\u2019 and \u2018why\u2019 behind the iraq war -- i wanted a top-down history starting with the geo-political chessboard and ending with boots on the ground. i was quick to realize i had put my own demands, the demands of a history book, on what is something entirely different. filkins knows that, generally speaking, the participants in wars (even in the age of internet, tivo, and cell phone) do not have access or privilege to knowledge of the events in which they participate. this is the iraq war he presents. even more impressive than filkins\u2019s balls (so big you could attach \u2018em to a crane and use \u2018em to knock over the chrysler building) is the intellectual confidence to admit he just doesn\u2019t know what the fuck is going on. while nearly every pundit/reporter/activist/partisan gobbles down loads of friedman/huntington/lewis/etc and claims to understand the \u2018arab mind\u2019, the 'arab street', the nature of freedom, and what the founding fathers would have done, filkins hangs in the \u2018known unknown\u2019 camp: he waits and watches. it\u2019s tough, as I write this in 2009 for those who supported the war to defend their position. and tougher, perhaps, for those who were 100% opposed to it to understand that there was a noble side to this thing. not necessarily a noble side to the bush administration\u2019s motives, but a noble byproduct in the removal of saddam hussein. y'know, the guy who gassed tens of thousands of innocent kurds, threw tens of thousands of his own people into torture chambers and rape rooms, waged one of the bloodiest and most pointless wars of the last century (with absolutely no result other than millions of corpses), invaded kuwait, encouraged suicide bombings by offering cash rewards to the families, shot at planes in the no-fly zone, and was set to leave his demented creation to sons who were zealous practitioners of rape torture and murder. one aspect of president dipshit\u2019s legacy is that, once again, american intervention has been totally and thoroughly discredited. and for the most part this is a good thing. but, still, american intervention, preferably with NATO or some other alliance, could have cut short the rwandan genocide. after taking its thumb out of its ass, when america finally committed, it took down milo\u0161evi\u0107 and ended that genocide. and it sickens me that congress didn\u2019t even bother to seriously debate sudan. but, these are not easy questions, and after reading filkins\u2019s book it feels even more maniacal to subject anyone to the shit he describes. but the triumph of the book -\u2013 after the insider's view of combat (perhaps the most harrowing i've ever read) and terrific character studies of marines, insurgents, extremists, iraqi civilians, chalabi, bremer, etc -\u2013 is that i can only imagine the most rabid partisan, the most extreme wingnut of the right or left, refusing to rethink \u2013- if only for a brief period -\u2013 all they felt certain about before. ...more Technically, <+++>The Forever War</+++> is a work of reportage - magnificent reportage, in fact - but that's not all it is. For one thing, Filkin's tone is at times more personal, more anguished, than conventional journalism usually allows. For another, the cumulative impact of the pieces is beyond the literary reach of your average hack reporter. I'd suggest, then, that it belongs to that growing subgenre known as survivor literature: traveller's tales, in effect, brought back from a netherworld of human Technically, The Forever War is a work of reportage - magnificent reportage, in fact - but that's not all it is. For one thing, Filkin's tone is at times more personal, more anguished, than conventional journalism usually allows. For another, the cumulative impact of the pieces is beyond the literary reach of your average hack reporter. I'd suggest, then, that it belongs to that growing subgenre known as survivor literature: traveller's tales, in effect, brought back from a netherworld of human suffering. Filkins spent years in post-invasion Iraq, living entirely outside the Green Zone, and he got to know the country as well as any non-Arabic speaking Westerner could be expected to - and much better, I'd guess, than just about any American official you could name. What's great about Filkins, though, is his intellectual modesty. He's not afraid to show us his sheer, lip-twiddling confusion in the face of some intractable bit of Iraqi reality, and to use his own incomprehension as an index of the wider myopia besetting the occupation. One instance among dozens: Filkins is interviewing an insurgent whose brother has allegedly been murdered by a rival faction. Out of nowhere, the leader of that other group comes along and sits down at the next table. Filkins senses an 'animal tension' in the air and readies himself for a gunfight. The two adversaries spring to their feet and then, with all the fake bonhomie of Long Island party girls, they set to hugging each other and promising to get together some time. Here, as with so many of Filkin's vignettes, there's a sort of invisible, authorial 'wtf' hovering between the lines. Or take his portrait of Ahmad Chalabi, the slippery political operator and former darling of the neo-cons. Filkins honestly doesn't know what to make of him. Is he an American stooge? An Iranian puppet? A political genius or a cynical rogue? For Filkins, resting as he does in a negative capability rare among journalists, that very ambiguity is the point: It wasn't just that he was brilliant, or nimble, or ruthless, or fun. When I looked into Chalabi's eyes and saw the doors and mirrors opening and closing, I knew that I was seeing not just the essence of the man but of the country to which he'd returned. L'etat, c'est lui. Chalabi was Iraq. Whatever your political convictions, whatever your views on Iraq, they're going to be, at the very least, recalibrated by The Forever War . On the one hand, nobody but the most indefatigable cheerleader of the war could fail to be revolted by the sadistic lunacy unleashed in the aftermath of the invasion. Of course, we've always known about the Shi'ite death squads with their electric drills and the Islamist nutjobs with their snuff films. But Filkins makes this vast collective nightmare all the more real and terrible by putting faces to the names and sketching in all the ghastly little human details. It's hard-going at times, but it's absolutely essential, I think. On the other hand, anyone espousing the more simple-minded pacifism of the purblind left is bound to be equally troubled by Filkin's reporting. And maybe, just maybe, the supposedly humane middle ground where many of us huddle nervously is not a viable option, either. I don't know, I really don't. But neither does Filkins. That's one reason I trust him, and one of the many reasons I admire him. ...more <---A>Dexter Filkins</---A>, the author of The Forever War, is a New York Times foreign correspondent who covered the middle east from Afghanistan's Taliban rule in 1998 to Iraq through 2006. I should probably confess right away that I'm not a fan of journalism. I resent the whole idea of getting information from people who are in the business of selling it. I don't know what the alternative would be, but still....it seems like a conflict of interest. On top of that, there is the issue of bias. We all have it. Dexter Filkins, the author of The Forever War, is a New York Times foreign correspondent who covered the middle east from Afghanistan's Taliban rule in 1998 to Iraq through 2006. I should probably confess right away that I'm not a fan of journalism. I resent the whole idea of getting information from people who are in the business of selling it. I don't know what the alternative would be, but still....it seems like a conflict of interest. On top of that, there is the issue of bias. We all have it. I'm not sure it's possible to communicate without it. So, when it's somebody's job to write/talk/share about an issue, I don't believe anyone is completely able to leave it out. It's a lot more obvious to detect when your own bias stands in opposition. I can't read Arianna Huffington or Ann Coulter without some serious eye rolling, but Peggy Noonan? I think she's brilliant. I think she's fair. I can't see her bias as easily, but I'm sure that's because I agree with her, most of the time. I must agree with Dexter Filkins too because I had a very hard time detecting any bias in his book. The Forever War doesn't give a chronological time line of the war on terror, or even a history or reason for the conflict up to this point. Instead, the book's focus is much more narrow. Using small snippets from his observations, conversations and the various situations he found himself in as an American journalist living in a fundamental Islam dominated middle east, the war takes its own shape without much molding from the author. Through Filkin's reporting, the war is viewed from many various perspectives. The Taliban's, Afghani women, American soldiers, American politicians, American ambassadors, Iraqi Sunni's, Iraqi Shiites, Kurds, hardliners, moderates, families, women, children. Iraqis as gracious hosts. Iraqis blind to American goodwill. Iraqis determined to keep their country in chaos. Iraqis as the neighbor or friend you wish you had. As he sometimes traveled under the protection of the US Forces, he was able to observe their behavior too. Like their Iraqi counterparts, soldiers and military leaders ranged from the truly valiant, noble even, to complete jerks. But, because he told individual stories and reported moments in time as they happened, very few of his reports are tinged with the burden of hindsight or the sensationalism that I so loathe. It's incredibly present. A snapshot with words. Filkins manages to keep himself out of his reporting most of the time as well. Even when he's part of the story, such as when he runs in shorts that he knows bothers Muslim modesty, it's not about his running or even his legs, it's about the Iraqi guard's humor, generosity and discomfort. When he's not part of the story, his presence is hardly noticeable. For example, he doesn't editorialize an interview with an Iraqi jihadist. The emotion, that spills out of the pages is one of the jihadist's single-mindedness and hatred for the infidels, not of Filkin's response. No apologies. No excuses. When he's interviewing a 19 year-old American soldier from Pearland, Texas, the pages fill with the soldier's optimism, hope and unquestioning obedience to his superiors, not Filkin's east-coast, Harvard educated sensibilities. Sometimes, the book becomes more than raw reporting. Sometimes, Filkins allows his own confusion and conflicting emotions to tell this story too. Like the time he gets lifted into an angry anti-American mob, and his certain soon-to-be death, but before any harm befalls him, he is pulled back into the safety of his car by his Iraqi driver. Gratitude for one Iraqi and fear of another. Conflict. If there should ever be required reading on the present day conflict in Iraq, The Forever War should hold a place at the top of that list. While it is a book that no doubt Filkins hopes will sell, I don't think he's trying to sell a view of this war to the left or to the right. Instead, like a meaningful piece of art, he captures what war is - past, present and future: hope, corruption, fear, courage, sacrifice, weariness, destruction, honor, death and change - all together. Forever. ...more When you invade and break countries, bad shit usually happens. Doesn't always have to, but the dial leans that way. Good shit happens too, but it needs nurturing, time, and a whole pile o' shit-ass luck, especially when what was broken is used to seeing it all go down through a different set of goggles. The bad shit needs little prompting\u2014it's nature's wily stunted bastard child hopped up on Skittles\u2122 and chuffing smoke. Be very careful when you break shit like countries. Try and think things throug When you invade and break countries, bad shit usually happens. Doesn't always have to, but the dial leans that way. Good shit happens too, but it needs nurturing, time, and a whole pile o' shit-ass luck, especially when what was broken is used to seeing it all go down through a different set of goggles. The bad shit needs little prompting\u2014it's nature's wily stunted bastard child hopped up on Skittles\u2122 and chuffing smoke. Be very careful when you break shit like countries. Try and think things through a bit. Prepare for it all going Hamster Huey and the Gooey Kablooie. 'Cause that bad shit, that horrible, nasty bad shit always seems to be just waiting to happen. *\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0*\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0*\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0*\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0* Along with Jon Lee Anderson's The Fall of Baghdad , this book occupies the top tier of Iraq War reportage that I've so far partaken of. Following a tense and cacophonous prologue through the darkness-drenched, bullet-riddled environs of insurgent Falluja circa 2004, Filkins\u2014whose survival of one scenario fraught with peril after another comes eventually to take on the appearance of a not-so-minor miracle\u2014warms up the reader with a brief-but-informative glimpse at pre-9/11 Afghanistan and its new Taliban liberators/oppressors. These chiaroscuro slide-show revelations perfectly set the stage for the vignettes from war-torn Iraq that comprise the majority of Forever , leaps back-and-forth through time and across the flat Iraqi desertscape to provide a jigsaw view of the progression of the original conflict between the United States and the army of Saddam Hussein into a sectarian uprising featuring Sunni and Shiite insurgencies and militias in action against the American liberators/oppressors and their native allies. The one common element throughout is death, ofttimes impassionately narrated by Filkins and which offhand manner\u2014especially when used as a brisk end punctuation to the deceased subject's anecdotal depiction\u2014somewhat paradoxically comes to generate a powerful hold upon the reader. This termination of life affects US soldiers, reporters, and contractors, though the vast majority of the dead are citizens of that unlucky land, in many cases simply the victims of having been in the wrong place at the wrong time. As other reviews have pointed out, Filkins does not wade into the politics of invasion and subsequent occupation, though his own anguish, rage, and despair can be detected limning the stories stamped upon the printed page. The lack of an effective US plan to deal with a leaderless realm whose infrastructure had suffered from military strikes and post-invasion looting, the inscrutable nature of the Iraqi populace in their dealings with the Western Power, the nihilistic savagery of the insurgency cells, and the blossoming of razor-wire barriers, blast walls, and military checkpoints as new and alienating features of the urban maze of antebellum Baghdad form strong underlying elements of the collected stories' structure; particularly effective, in my opinion, are the brief interludes in which Filkins describes his daily routine of jogging the banks of the Tigris river near the hotel in which he was established and his interactions with the Iraqi citizens\u2014guards, police, merchants, restauranteurs, children\u2014whose paths he crosses while his running route becomes incrementally walled-off from the coterminous and increasingly dangerous residential neighborhoods. The sad doe-eyes of the little girl in The Kiss and the sinister adulthood which surrounds her devastatingly sums up the miasma of post-millennial Iraq in a few snatches of brilliant writing. Chaos and orphans are the commonest offspring of civil warfare; Filkins records their grim proliferation even while allowing the reader to see the attempts by, and admire the courage of, those doughty individuals, American and Iraqi both, who are struggling to craft a more enduring and meaningful legacy for all of the bodies claimed by the violent breaking and remaking of this tripartite Mesopotamian nation. There is little hope on display here, but little is not the same as none. ...more I have a shelf of books on Iraq & Afghanistan \u2013\u00a0mostly unfinished because the absurdity and the carnage, the futility and mendacity, are too dispiriting and I have to put them down. Filkins has written something different, a first person account of what it's like to be in the midst of American soldiers and Iraqi citizens \u2013 his book is a series of vignettes, carefully observed and plainly written. It pretty much avoids the political background and concentrates on the foreground, people he kno I have a shelf of books on Iraq & Afghanistan \u2013\u00a0mostly unfinished because the absurdity and the carnage, the futility and mendacity, are too dispiriting and I have to put them down. Filkins has written something different, a first person account of what it's like to be in the midst of American soldiers and Iraqi citizens \u2013 his book is a series of vignettes, carefully observed and plainly written. It pretty much avoids the political background and concentrates on the foreground, people he knows, events in which he plays a part. It's unpretentious and deeply-felt; whatever rage and futility he feels is between the lines, present but unobtrusive. Unlike most war reporters, who want to put the reader in the meat-grinder, Filkins' writing has a quiet dignity: there are moments of tragedy, crude comedy, heartache and beauty. To my mind, this war is a brutal folly, an unforgivable example of American hubris. For Filkins it's a bit more complicated than that, and I can only admire what he's accomplished. ...more I withheld a star despite my belief that this book MUST be read; read today. Filkins writes about his experiences as a war reporter in Afghanistan and Iraq (mostly the book is about Iraq). It is composed of short, medium, and long vignettes. He makes no effort to connect them. It works as fiction works, implicitly. Mainly Filkins describes his situations and leaves his readers the job of interpreting. Some of these are as mundane as jogging along the Tigris river. Others are in the middle of fire I withheld a star despite my belief that this book MUST be read; read today. Filkins writes about his experiences as a war reporter in Afghanistan and Iraq (mostly the book is about Iraq). It is composed of short, medium, and long vignettes. He makes no effort to connect them. It works as fiction works, implicitly. Mainly Filkins describes his situations and leaves his readers the job of interpreting. Some of these are as mundane as jogging along the Tigris river. Others are in the middle of firefights. His descriptions and his multiple angles reminded me how the show \"The Wire\" works. That is the highest praise I can deliver. Sometimes I detested Filkins. He does not hide his loyalty to the U.S. soldiers with whom he is embedded. But because he does not hide his commitments (neither does he parade them), the reader can sense when he is trying to stretch himself towards Afghans and Iraqis. To some degree Afghans and Iraqis get to tell their story. But locals with whom he speaks are translators, drivers, photographers, snitches, and con artists. It is rare indeed for Filkins to portray an Afghan or Iraqi as an equal, as a seriously considered adversary. This bias comes out especially strongly near the end of the book. The section called \"The Departed,\" is an homage to the dead. Here especially I felt the absence of proportion, an inability to imagine adversarial Iraqis as whole human beings. The \"acknowledgments\" are also revealing. The confirm my sense of Filkins mostly uncritical embrace of the status quo. Still, I found the book compelling. I wouldn't hesitate to use it in a classroom. Filkins strength is an overwhelming faithfulness to the messiness of the concrete details. This not only gives us a thousand images for each word (to invert the usual saying), but allows us the benefit of our own interpretations. Here is book that is wholly better than the author. I am not sure I would turn down a chance for coffee with Filkins, but nor am I sure I wouldn't have some sharp question I would like to put to him. He is better than, say the likes of Steve Coll (Ghost Wars) but not as humane as Mary Anne Weaver (Children of the Jihad). I offer three of my favorite quotations from the book below. (1) There were always two conversations in Iraq, the one the Iraqis were having with the Americans and the one they were having among themselves. The one the Iraqis were having with us \u2013 that was positive and predictable and boring, and it made the Americans happy because it made them think they were winning. And the Iraqis kept it up because it kept the money flowing, or because it bought them a little peace. The conversation they were having with each other was the one that really mattered, of course. That conversation was the the chatter of a whole other world, a parallel reality, which sometimes unfolded right next to the Americans, even right in front of them. And we almost never saw it. 115 (2) \u201cI am so tired,\u201d Yusra said. \u201cIn Saddam\u2019s time, I knew that if I kept my mouth shut, if I did not say anything against him, I would be safe. But now it is different. There are so many reasons why someone would want to kill me now: because I am Shia, because I have a Sunni son, because I work for the Americans, because I drive, because I am a woman with a job, because\u201d \u2013 she picked up her abaya \u2013 \u201cI don\u2019t wear my stupid hejab.\u201d She took my notebook and flipped it to a blank page. This was Yusra\u2019s way of explaining her situation and, sensing the limitations of language, she would sometimes seize a reporter\u2019s notebook and diagram her predicament. She drew a large circle in the middle. \u201cThis was Saddam,\u201d She said. \u201cHe is here. Big. During Saddam\u2019s time, all you had to do was stay away from this giant thing. That was not pleasant, but not so hard.\u201d She flipped to another blank age. She drew a dozen circles, some of them touching, some overlapping. A small galaxy. She put her pen in the middle and made a dot. \u201cThe dot I the middle, that is me \u2013 that is every Iraqi,\u201d she said. \u201cFrom everywhere you can be killed, from here, from here, from here.\u201d She was stabbing her pen into the notepad. \u201cWe Iraqis,\u201d she said. \u201cWe are all sentence to death and we do not know by whom.\u201d 326 (3) When I was in Iraq, I might as well have been circling the earth from a space capsule, circling in farthest orbit. Like Laika in Sputnik. A dog in space. Sending signals back to base, unmoored and weightless and no longer keeping time. Home was far away, a distant place that gobbled up whatever I sent back, ignorant and happy but touchingly hungry to know. And then I was back, back in the world with everyone else, looking back on the ship myself though not returning all the way, still floating like Laika, through the regular people in the regular world. Back in the world, people were serious, about the fillings in their sandwiches, about the winner last night\u2019s ballgame. I couldn\u2019t blame them of course. For me, the war sort of flattened things out, flattened things out here and flattened them out there, too. Toward the end, when I was still there, so many bombs had gone off so many times that they no longer shocked or even roused; the people screamed in silence and in slow motion. And then I got back to the world, and the weddings and the picnics were the same as everything had been Iraq, silent and slow and heavy and dead. Your days may die but your dreams explode. Not with any specific recollections; they were more the by-products of the raw material I carried back. Rarely anything I saw. 339-40. ...more 5 STARS, one of the best books on the Iraq war (and the Afghan war to a lesser extent) ever written. Featuring large cojones, smashed sterotypes, WTF, tragedy, hope\u2026 OK, Mr. Filkins clearly has a pair of big, hairy ones considering the situations he gets himself into voluntarily or haphazardly. Jogging in Baghdad in the midst of the emerging civil war? Meeting with insurgents in Ramadi, sitting with Mahdi Army types in the middle of the siege of Najaf, into Fallujah with the Marines, showing up a 5 STARS, one of the best books on the Iraq war (and the Afghan war to a lesser extent) ever written. Featuring large cojones, smashed sterotypes, WTF, tragedy, hope\u2026 OK, Mr. Filkins clearly has a pair of big, hairy ones considering the situations he gets himself into voluntarily or haphazardly. Jogging in Baghdad in the midst of the emerging civil war? Meeting with insurgents in Ramadi, sitting with Mahdi Army types in the middle of the siege of Najaf, into Fallujah with the Marines, showing up at car bomb sites? Dude. Whether you oppose the war or support it, stereotypes are in danger here. For those who support(ed) the war, you can only shake your head and wonder \u201cWTF\u201d are we doing here at times. The beautiful field next to the river in Baghdad built at great cost is an apt metaphor for the waste, naivet\u00e9 and sheer stupidity of how much of the war is carried out. Yet there are also wonderful moments where those who oppose the war will have to face how much good we did (and still do). There are regular people in Afghanistan and Iraq that view us favorably. I appreciate Mr. Filkins gives us a word picture but not a biased one. You come to your own conclusions, he doesn\u2019t steer you. Mr Filkins captures the tragedy of the war yet there is an undercurrent of hope that something good will come out. As the book comes to a close and the civil war is raging, he gives us a slight peek at what will turn out to be the Anbar Awakening that will coincide with the Surge in 2007. It took real guts to carry out that surge and overcome the civil war/terror campaign raging at the end of the book in 2006. Mr Filkins gives a very fair picture of the times. If anyone told me I would not only read a book on the Iraq war by a NY Times reporter, but I would also list it as one of the greatest pieces of wartime writing ever, well I would have dismissed it out of hand. If the NY Times carries an article by Mr Filkins, I will buy that edition. If the NYT makes him the editor, I will subscribe. There is an honest, uncorrupted reporter here. I did not believe one existed in that organization anymore. ...more Chaos, cruelty, hopelessness: It\u2019s all here in this tome of despair, a New York Times reporter\u2019s vignettes of the wars he saw in Afghanistan and Iraq. These mind numbing pages repeat one episode of senseless violence after another. I feel so sorry for these people. I can\u2019t imagine living in their world. Filkins depicts the clueless Bush administration trying to impose American values on an Iraqi culture it does not understand. An awful tyrant was replaced with a veritable hell. As one Iraqi put Chaos, cruelty, hopelessness: It\u2019s all here in this tome of despair, a New York Times reporter\u2019s vignettes of the wars he saw in Afghanistan and Iraq. These mind numbing pages repeat one episode of senseless violence after another. I feel so sorry for these people. I can\u2019t imagine living in their world. Filkins depicts the clueless Bush administration trying to impose American values on an Iraqi culture it does not understand. An awful tyrant was replaced with a veritable hell. As one Iraqi put it, at least under Saddam a person could keep a low profile, obey the rules and stay out of trouble. After the US took over, people faced death from every side with no way out. Bush and Cheney did succeed in creating millions of new enemies for America and destroying millions of innocent lives. A must read for anyone who thinks America\u2019s attempts at \u201cnation building\u201d in these countries makes any sense - a good reminder for those who know better. ...more Dexter Filkins (n. 1961) \u00e9 um jornalista norte-americano, correspondente da \u201dThe New Yorker\u201d , vencedor do pr\u00e9mio Pulitzer em 2009 que escreve um dos melhores livros \u201csobre\u201d as guerras do Afeganist\u00e3o e do Iraque. Mulheres em Cabul - Afeganist\u00e3o Falluja - Iraque \u201cGuerra Sem Fim\u201d (2008) est\u00e1 dividido em duas partes: Parte Um/Cabul, Afeganist\u00e3o, Setembro 1998 e Parte Dois/Bagdad, Iraque, Mar\u00e7o de 2003 ; no Afeganist\u00e3o, Dexter Filkins , assiste ao ressurgimento dos talib\u00e3s, destruindo uma civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o se Dexter Filkins (n. 1961) \u00e9 um jornalista norte-americano, correspondente da \u201dThe New Yorker\u201d , vencedor do pr\u00e9mio Pulitzer em 2009 que escreve um dos melhores livros \u201csobre\u201d as guerras do Afeganist\u00e3o e do Iraque. Mulheres em Cabul - Afeganist\u00e3o Falluja - Iraque \u201cGuerra Sem Fim\u201d (2008) est\u00e1 dividido em duas partes: Parte Um/Cabul, Afeganist\u00e3o, Setembro 1998 e Parte Dois/Bagdad, Iraque, Mar\u00e7o de 2003 ; no Afeganist\u00e3o, Dexter Filkins , assiste ao ressurgimento dos talib\u00e3s, destruindo uma civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o secular, com pressuposto religiosos radicais, num dom\u00ednio pelo poder entre os l\u00edderes talib\u00e3s e os estudantes das madrassas , relatando \u201ccom um imediatismo cortante a experi\u00eancia humana e consequente trag\u00e9dia da guerra.\u201d; no Iraque presencia a invas\u00e3o americana, uma decis\u00e3o pol\u00edtica, envolvida em pressupostos falsos, no intuito de derrubar um dos ditadores mais sanguin\u00e1rios da hist\u00f3ria contempor\u00e2nea \u2013 Saddam Hussein. \u201cGuerra Sem Fim\u201d \u00e9 um dos melhores livros que li sobre esta tem\u00e1tica, uma narrativa humanizada sobre os participantes destas guerras, a destrui\u00e7\u00e3o e o saque, os massacres individuais e colectivos, assentes em pressupostos educacionais e religiosos, entre in\u00fameras e diferentes fac\u00e7\u00f5es, civis e religiosas, em dois conflitos onde se evidencia a natureza ca\u00f3tica e aleat\u00f3ria das guerras, num caos dominado por uma viol\u00eancia absolutamente atroz. Imperd\u00edvel\u2026 ...more In many ways this is a very straight-forward account of the American occupation of Iraq. The beginning of the book is about Afghanistan (about 70 pages) \u2013 then it shifts to Iraq. The author does not follow a narrative or time-line flow. He explores themes and focuses on the individuals involved. For the most part he does not judge \u2013 that is left to the reader. Mr. Filkins is an excellent observer and recorder - it is this situational documenting that allows us to learn and evaluate. And we do ind In many ways this is a very straight-forward account of the American occupation of Iraq. The beginning of the book is about Afghanistan (about 70 pages) \u2013 then it shifts to Iraq. The author does not follow a narrative or time-line flow. He explores themes and focuses on the individuals involved. For the most part he does not judge \u2013 that is left to the reader. Mr. Filkins is an excellent observer and recorder - it is this situational documenting that allows us to learn and evaluate. And we do indeed need to react as Mr. Filkins illustrates the effects of a deadly occupation. Whole towns are razed as tanks fire point-blank and houses are invaded; meanwhile religious violence, factionalism and intolerance increases. The author accompanies soldiers into combat and also listens to jihadists. His style sometimes reminds me of the World War II journalist Ernie Pyle. Through-out we are cautioned of the election promises. Are the Iraqis five years (at the time of writing) after the (Bush) invasion better off? As one woman states \u2013 at least with Saddam we knew the rules. Now there are so many different competing rules. Breaking any one of them can lead to death. ...more Powerful collage of the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. Heartfelt tribute. Memorable evocation of the tragic and often surreal situations at play. I can't remember who recommended this book, so I don't know who to thank...but I walked away from this book with my mouth open, shaking my head in awe. This man can *write*. He brought scenes from war-ravaged countries into my living room, and found a way to accentuate both the devastation and the quiet small moments, creating a book that horrifies and educates and gives you hope, all at once. Really, read this. Whoof. This is a powerful-ass book. Cold-hearted pundit that I am, I was hoping for more of a narrative history of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, that would help me make snide commentary. That is not this book. It is much more valuable than that. Dexter Filkins worked for American newspapers in Afghanistan in the 1990s, and, most importantly for this book, in Iraq from 2003 to 2006. There is some coverage of Afghanistan, before and after the US invasion, and one particularly effecting chapter Whoof. This is a powerful-ass book. Cold-hearted pundit that I am, I was hoping for more of a narrative history of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, that would help me make snide commentary. That is not this book. It is much more valuable than that. Dexter Filkins worked for American newspapers in Afghanistan in the 1990s, and, most importantly for this book, in Iraq from 2003 to 2006. There is some coverage of Afghanistan, before and after the US invasion, and one particularly effecting chapter from lower Manhattan on September 11th, but the bulk of the book is dedicated to the disintegration of Iraq. The Forever War's picture of the conflict is deeply personal. It's a series of carefully reported anecdotes and their impact on the author rather than a coherent narrative. Many of the chapters are fleshed out and personalized versions of articles Filkins wrote for the New York Times. He will start the story of a kidnapping, or a charismatic governor, and then move on to another chapter without following the narrative thread through. The anecdotes are the point, not the resolution of any particular story, which is an effective way of dealing with a conflict that has lasted decades and shows no sign of stopping. The book occasionally seems to be perversely anti-chronological, though there's a logic to how it's all laid out. As you'd expect, the early chapters are more hopeful, and the later ones are more grim. Filkins's tenure in Iraq did not extend through the end of the first insurgency. The intent here is not to document Iraq's history during the war, but to provide one man's very subjective view of it. It's very powerful stuff. It's not history with dates, but the book is filled with lessons nonetheless. I always knew that we sent out kids to die for essentially nothing in Iraq, but when Filkins tells the stories of how these teenagers fought and died, I learn this fact on a deeper level. As you'd expect from a story from a US journalist, the focus here is on the deaths of the soldiers he was embedded with, and the co-workers that he knew. This is not a criticism. He illustrates the suffering of the Iraqi people in numerous anecdotes, but those traumas are not the ones he felt directly. One of the most powerful images in the book is that of the \"Vanishing World\". As the conflict became bloodier, and the streets got more dangerous for foreigners, journalists knew less and less about the country they were supposed to be reporting on. Living behind the New York Times compound walls, only venturing out to visit a scene of destruction with heavily armed drivers, or to witness the creation of scenes of destruction with heavily armed US soldiers, or to press conferences reporting \"progress\", he was going to end up with a skewed view. One of the book's accomplishments is the way it lays out the impossibility of truly \"reporting\" on such a conflict. Generally when I pick up a book with blurbs filled with praise as over the top as the ones covering this volume, I end up hating the book and ripping it to shreds. Can't do that here. Deeply impressive and well worth reading. I'm a little too devoid of feeling to call it one of my favorite books, but it's certainly a great one. ...more The best book yet on Iraq, from a Taliban execution in 1998 to the WTC, where Filkins sees an intestine lying on the ground, to Iraq, where an attempt to get the story gets a Marine killed. Visceral, smart, funny, and pained (the acknowledgements mention, in passing, that these experiences destroyed his marriage), with sweeping, memorable images of devastation and meaningless absurdity mixed with short-short stories--a fitting equal to Herr's Dispatches, and also sneakily alluding, I would guess The best book yet on Iraq, from a Taliban execution in 1998 to the WTC, where Filkins sees an intestine lying on the ground, to Iraq, where an attempt to get the story gets a Marine killed. Visceral, smart, funny, and pained (the acknowledgements mention, in passing, that these experiences destroyed his marriage), with sweeping, memorable images of devastation and meaningless absurdity mixed with short-short stories--a fitting equal to Herr's Dispatches, and also sneakily alluding, I would guess, to Joe Haldeman's Vietnam-era SF allegory, which is also well worth your time. Read the John Leonard review in Harper's; his work is becoming ever more self-parodic, with long, long lists of whatever substituting for reviews. (Por ejemplo: The Forever War is like a pointillist Seurat, a neo-Impressionist juxtaposition of spots of pure color with black holes and open wounds. In this corner: laptops, satellite phones, \u201cWag Bags,\u201d razor wire, Black Hawks, Sea Stallions, infrared strobe beacons, AC/DC, and Metallica. Yonder: watermelons, soccer balls, kebabs, goat skeletons, kidnapped children, detached feet, decapitation videos, and snipers shooting down from minarets. ) I used to think he was a genius, but now--adjective, adverb, weird random noun, participle, reference to obscure author--I'm not so sure. ...more Amazing, riveting, powerful, absorbing...like All Quiet on the Western Front . A great piece of war literature that transcends adjectives. See the haunted look in Dexter's eyes on the dust jacket flap? He poured his soul into this magnificent work. A must read for anyone interested in the export of democracy. Already, the Iraq War is fading from our memory. 2003 already seems in the distant past, and the withdrawal in 2011 is getting there. Still wrought with civil war, our attention has already shifted to other wars, both present and potential: Iran, Libya, Syria. This amnesia should be surprising. the Vietnam War\u2014a similar quagmire\u2014traumatized the nation, and led to a suspicion of the military that only started to thaw by the time of Desert Storm. Yet there's one important difference: the draft is g Already, the Iraq War is fading from our memory. 2003 already seems in the distant past, and the withdrawal in 2011 is getting there. Still wrought with civil war, our attention has already shifted to other wars, both present and potential: Iran, Libya, Syria. This amnesia should be surprising. the Vietnam War\u2014a similar quagmire\u2014traumatized the nation, and led to a suspicion of the military that only started to thaw by the time of Desert Storm. Yet there's one important difference: the draft is gone, and an all-volunteer army increasingly draws from rural and poor youth, all categories nearly invisible in the media. Rather than a shared sacrifice, war is increasingly waged using the unprivileged few. This forgetting and ignorance, which had already started during the occupation itself, means the public isn't so easily soured by war\u2014making books like The Forever War all the more crucial as reminders of just how crazy the times were. Crazy is almost a cruel way to describe the events, as that doesn't capture the very real suffering inflicted on all parties involved, but especially Iraqi civilians. For them there was no withdrawal coming, no salve to the daily reality of trying to balance the hope of collaboration with the sobering knowledge that it would make them a target for violence. It's apt that the writing style reflects this craziness, a pointillist vision through dozens of discrete events, all adding together to chronicle the deeply dysfunctional occupation. At first, the institutional corruption and the violence are two separate problems. Before long, though, they merge: sectarian militias made official instruments of the state, carrying out civil war under police uniforms. Filkins' book works because it captures the street-level degeneration, shows how the civilians are pulled between the will of the state and the much more dangerous will of the insurgency\u2014or really, how that dichotomy is false, concealing a much more complex tug-of-war between powers, some clothed in official authority and others not. It's hard to go into much more detail, because in some sense this book is all detail; it resists summary, and therein is its power. Sorry if this sounds like a mess as a result. ...more The Forever War is possibly the best journalistic account in book form yet of the War, occupation and insurgency in Iraq. Filkins casts an unflinching, cold eye on life, on death, on the pain and suffering, on the pity of war itself. He doesn't moralize, judge or pontificate; he bears witness to what he has seen and allows the reader to judge for himself. When he accompanies the US Marines or army on missions such as the assault on Falluja, he doesn't narrate in the first person plural, instead The Forever War is possibly the best journalistic account in book form yet of the War, occupation and insurgency in Iraq. Filkins casts an unflinching, cold eye on life, on death, on the pain and suffering, on the pity of war itself. He doesn't moralize, judge or pontificate; he bears witness to what he has seen and allows the reader to judge for himself. When he accompanies the US Marines or army on missions such as the assault on Falluja, he doesn't narrate in the first person plural, instead remains passive and neutral throughout - his countrymen are \"the Americans\". Short bursts of chronologically unconnected narratives convey the confused, disjointed, meandering and meaningless nature of the Iraqi conflict. Filkins illustrates how it is beyond the comprehension of most Americans how the Iraqis can accept their aid and money on one hand and then hate, betray and murder them on the other. In doing so he makes one of the books' few political points - the utter ignorance of most Americans on the history, customs, traditions and values of the region, and how alien the concepts of individual freedom and democracy are in a land still rooted in tribal feudalism whose experience of Government has been either despotic dictatorship or Islamic absolutism. \"You destroyed our Country and you called it democracy\" laments a despairing Iraqi woman on Election Day. And yet Filkins experiences compassion amid the brutality. The tales of sacrifice, kindness and hospitality in the midst of the horror are touching, as people strive to attain and preserve normality at great risk to their own lives. This though is a tale of war without end - quoting a Greek philosopher, \"only the dead have seen the end of war\". The conflict in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in the Middle East - is the forever war. Filkins is one of those brave, fearless, somewhat foolhardy reporters who cut through the propaganda to bring the real lives and stories of ordinary people living through the horrors behind the headlines to the World. He, and his like, are to be commended. ...more This is a series of vignettes no doubt culled from NYT correspondent Dexter Filkins' notebooks. It chronicles the sorry-ass history of our involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq up to around 2006. Filkins tries for some balance, with stories of well meaning US soldiers in over their heads in a culture they don't even come close to understanding, as well as brave-as-hell Iraqis and Afghanis trying to build something out of their respective country's rubble. But the stories of misery and despair from This is a series of vignettes no doubt culled from NYT correspondent Dexter Filkins' notebooks. It chronicles the sorry-ass history of our involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq up to around 2006. Filkins tries for some balance, with stories of well meaning US soldiers in over their heads in a culture they don't even come close to understanding, as well as brave-as-hell Iraqis and Afghanis trying to build something out of their respective country's rubble. But the stories of misery and despair from people caught between the US military and insurgent groups in both countries are heart-wrenching. For example, a family, fed up with the constant peril of life in Baghdad, packs up and moves to a safer place: Damascus, Syria. God knows what became of them when Syria went to hell a few years later. Another man, whose son was killed by a Shiite militia, sits in a tea shop; at a table next to him, is the leader of that militia. They embrace, greet each other, and vow to spend more time together. Alternately moving, terrifying, and absurd, Filkins does a great job of evoking the confusing mess that is our involvement in these conflicts. It's short on analysis, but presents a vivid portrait of what we've wrought, and reaped, in the longest wars in our history. Not pleasant reading, but it is powerful and well written. Recommended for those curious about exactly what's going on at street level in these under reported wars. I'd give it five stars, but I seldom give anything five stars. ...more I expected this book, a NYT reporter's stories of Iraq and Afghanistan between 2000 and 2006, to be a chore or a penance, like The Dark Side. While it's disturbing in its own way, it's a gripping read, more Black Hawk Down than political analysis. Filkins may have been fundamentally an observer but he manages to write about his experiences in a way that draws the reader into the middle of the action. Filkins was sent to report on the Taliban before 9/11, and the book opens with him witnessing a s I expected this book, a NYT reporter's stories of Iraq and Afghanistan between 2000 and 2006, to be a chore or a penance, like The Dark Side. While it's disturbing in its own way, it's a gripping read, more Black Hawk Down than political analysis. Filkins may have been fundamentally an observer but he manages to write about his experiences in a way that draws the reader into the middle of the action. Filkins was sent to report on the Taliban before 9/11, and the book opens with him witnessing a soccer-stadium execution. Later, he takes up residence in Baghdad's Green Zone and describes its surreal remoteness from the lives of ordinary Iraqis. He profiles U.S. Marines struggling to keep the mission on track as the situation in Iraq curdles, and works among a platoon of Marines during the attack on Falluja. One of the most affecting parts of the book involves a young serviceman who is killed helping Filkins and his photographer get a story, and Filkins's meeting with the man's parents, who generously insist that he'd only been doing his job. What makes this book worth reading is that it takes years' worth of impersonal news reports about the Middle East, and puts a series of human faces on it, without letting the scenes feel anecdotal or trivial. Instead, they're a series of vivid impressions of a unique place and time that acknowledge the desperation while imparting dignity to the people being profiled. ...more My emotions got the better of me as I moved through this book. Dexter Filkins must have nine lives -- it's unbelievable how many close calls he has while traveling through and interacting with the people of Mesopotamia. If you feel you'd like to know a whole lot more about America's current war(s) in the Islamic heartland ... I cannot think of a better (more entertaining) suggestion than to pick up this book. After some early chapters that put the reader in the middle of furious combat situation My emotions got the better of me as I moved through this book. Dexter Filkins must have nine lives -- it's unbelievable how many close calls he has while traveling through and interacting with the people of Mesopotamia. If you feel you'd like to know a whole lot more about America's current war(s) in the Islamic heartland ... I cannot think of a better (more entertaining) suggestion than to pick up this book. After some early chapters that put the reader in the middle of furious combat situations, the piece begins to very cleverly (read: gradually, for the uninformed American mind) develop the cast of real-life men and women who populate the headlines of the today's news. Sunni, Shiite, the Mahdi Army, the Northern Alliance, outspoken clerics, Iraqi provisional politicos ... you'll start to understand what the heck is really going on \"out there in the desert.\" And just a few days ago, a coordinated car-bomb attack in Baghdad sent almost 100 people to an early grave. The story continues. And a resolution to the troubles is long overdue. ...more Powerful writing about (for most of us Americans) unimaginably horrific experiences. It's difficult to write about this book without sounding trite or sentimentalizing it - words seem inadequate. Honest and painful, remarkably apolitical, it draws the reader in to this terrifying place and forces the reader to acknowledge and confront situations that I'd prefer to pretend couldn't possibly be real. I had to stop several times to allow myself to digest what I'd read and attempt to distance myself Powerful writing about (for most of us Americans) unimaginably horrific experiences. It's difficult to write about this book without sounding trite or sentimentalizing it - words seem inadequate. Honest and painful, remarkably apolitical, it draws the reader in to this terrifying place and forces the reader to acknowledge and confront situations that I'd prefer to pretend couldn't possibly be real. I had to stop several times to allow myself to digest what I'd read and attempt to distance myself again before continuing. I am so grateful not to have to worry that my sons will be killed by a stray mortar shell while playing soccer. Masked men aren't going to beat down my door in the middle of the night and drag my husband away to a torture chamber, never to be seen again. I can vote without having my life threatened or endangered. I can't imagine living that way, but so many have and do. War is hell in so many ways. For more book reviews, visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves . ...more Do yourself a favor and read this book. Seriously. Just. Do. It. The Forever War is a book that every person on Earth should read. It's simple: Dexter Filkins is reporting on the Afghanistan/Iraq War in the 2000's. It's a war report novel. He also writes about the Afghanistan before the war and when he was there earlier in his career. He writes about what he sees, who he talks too, and there is nothing else said. I cried when I read this book. I don't cry when I read books, but I was all out bawle Do yourself a favor and read this book. Seriously. Just. Do. It. The Forever War is a book that every person on Earth should read. It's simple: Dexter Filkins is reporting on the Afghanistan/Iraq War in the 2000's. It's a war report novel. He also writes about the Afghanistan before the war and when he was there earlier in his career. He writes about what he sees, who he talks too, and there is nothing else said. I cried when I read this book. I don't cry when I read books, but I was all out bawled when I read this book. I can remember tears streaming as I read this book over spring break for my Media and Foreign Policy class way back in my first year of college. Dexter Filkin's account is engaging as it is illuminating. ...more Terrific. My only complaint is that the story ends before more current events, such as the Surge, take place. (I\u2019d love to read Filkins on-the-ground take on that.) However, there is a moment late in the book where Filkins interviews an Iraqi terrorist who is getting more than a bit sick of Al-Qaeda (the \"foreigners\") killing fellow Iraqis. It's something of a sea change, since the result is an ordered hit against two Al-Qaeda gunmen. I was also hoping for more on Afghanistan, probably because i Terrific. My only complaint is that the story ends before more current events, such as the Surge, take place. (I\u2019d love to read Filkins on-the-ground take on that.) However, there is a moment late in the book where Filkins interviews an Iraqi terrorist who is getting more than a bit sick of Al-Qaeda (the \"foreigners\") killing fellow Iraqis. It's something of a sea change, since the result is an ordered hit against two Al-Qaeda gunmen. I was also hoping for more on Afghanistan, probably because it's in the news a lot now. But these are not reasonable complaints, and Filkins probably spent more time in Iraq than most. The Forever War is probably the most personal of all the Iraq accounts I've read so far. And so far the best. Maybe more on this later... ...more Dexter Filkins was a New York Times war reporter when he reworked his articles into this splendid volume, sculpting each story so that it shines as a work of literature, illuminating the human cost of war. Each piece is a journalist's snapshots of war's effects. These stories are accurate but not antiseptic, detached but not uncaring. And they force the reader to reflect on how fragile civilization is and how fortunate we Americans are. Bing West reviewed it for us: http://www.washingtonpost.com Dexter Filkins was a New York Times war reporter when he reworked his articles into this splendid volume, sculpting each story so that it shines as a work of literature, illuminating the human cost of war. Each piece is a journalist's snapshots of war's effects. These stories are accurate but not antiseptic, detached but not uncaring. And they force the reader to reflect on how fragile civilization is and how fortunate we Americans are. Bing West reviewed it for us: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/... ...more It is so easy to be lulled into the relatively soft cocoon of American life that I forget that there are tragedies happening in the world, daily, far outside my scope of understanding. It finally occurred to me that the best way to honor the lives of people who die to disseminate information is to, y'know, stay informed. I think there is a fear of becoming cynical and losing hope for good that comes with being informed of what's really going on, but it is the responsibility of a citizen of the w It is so easy to be lulled into the relatively soft cocoon of American life that I forget that there are tragedies happening in the world, daily, far outside my scope of understanding. It finally occurred to me that the best way to honor the lives of people who die to disseminate information is to, y'know, stay informed. I think there is a fear of becoming cynical and losing hope for good that comes with being informed of what's really going on, but it is the responsibility of a citizen of the world. ...more Incredibly insightful (about Iraqi mentality. American intentions, etc). I feel like I understand more about the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq by reading this book than the years of media coverage I have witnessed. I love the unspoken conclusions one can draw after each of his individual experiences. A must read for any American wishing to be educated on current affairs in the middle east! Wow, an adventure story that's real! This is not my usual fare but I opened it up at work and just could not put it down. The writing is phenomenal and the stories Filkins relates are very exciting. Also, I learned so much about Iraq and Afghanistan in the process. Pick this one up. Absolutely incredible and heartbreaking - Everyone should read this.<---C>Dexter Filkins</---C>", "Title": "The Forever War"},
