{"Comments": "I read this about a month after my husband died, and I remember thinking at the time how amazing it was that someone absolutely GOT so many of the crazy things that were going through my head. Some of the descriptions of grief and the crazy things you think, feel, and do are absolutely spot on...but after about halfway through the book it just traipses off into la-la, fantasy land. At 2 years now after my husband died, and having met a great number of young widows in those two years, it's absolu I read this about a month after my husband died, and I remember thinking at the time how amazing it was that someone absolutely GOT so many of the crazy things that were going through my head. Some of the descriptions of grief and the crazy things you think, feel, and do are absolutely spot on...but after about halfway through the book it just traipses off into la-la, fantasy land. At 2 years now after my husband died, and having met a great number of young widows in those two years, it's absolutely idiotic that the protagonist would be doing so cluelessly well within a year of her husband's death. And I found the ending offensive, especially as a widow. For trying to describe grief and all its insanity,<---M> the author does an amazing job</---M>, but it's obvious that she is NOT a widow and is simply imagining what a \"happy\" ending might be like. So I give it 4 stars for its description of grief, the author's voice, and the narrative flow...but I give it about a 2 out of 5 for being an inaccurate depiction of widowhood. To anyone who's experienced widowhood at an early age, it's ludicrous and offensive to suggest that grieving is over within a year or that finding another man constitutes a happy ending, and books like this only help to reinforce that misconception. But...that being said, I loved the book, up to a point. ...more I loved this book! At first, I wasn't sure if I should even buy it because of the expected start of the protagonist dying...as if some karmic cycle would point that fate into my pathe. But because of the topic of grief, I thought to give it a try.<---F> Yes, yes, and yes</---F>. I totally related to this story...the phases of grief and loss...what a person does and doesn't do can be actually extremely hilarious. I LOL, I cried, I shouted, I rooted and cheared, I became involved with these characters as if they I loved this book! At first, I wasn't sure if I should even buy it because of the expected start of the protagonist dying...as if some karmic cycle would point that fate into my pathe. But because of the topic of grief, I thought to give it a try. Yes, yes, and yes. I totally related to this story...the phases of grief and loss...what a person does and doesn't do can be actually extremely hilarious. I LOL, I cried, I shouted, I rooted and cheared, I became involved with these characters as if they could be part of my family. Having lost my brother, I became an only child. After losing my parents just a short five years later, I became a zombie trying to raise my children...ugh! But when it comes to moving forward and processing the stages of grief, this author hits the nail on the head. Relating to the loss of spouse was also easy for me to relate to as it was like a death in the family even though he is very much alive. I was the one that died and part of my children's hearts died as well when we were divorced. As we struggle this day to put our lives back together, I related to the teenager in this story and how she was 'cutting' to 'feel' something because her mother had abused her by neglect. There were so many levels of seriousness in this story but with the way it was told gave such reality to the process of change in each of our lives. I'm reminded of the book I read recently, called Loving What Is. We can't change what has happened to us, we can't change our current situations, and we can't predict what our future holds, but we can learn from what life deals us and we can find a purpose in life and what adventures there are in store for us. We can learn to 'let go' and trust the future, Come What May. It's like if we have one hand in yesterday and one in tomorrow then our today is crucified. I enjoyed the way this author could make me laugh at myself as I related to the protagonist grief process and even how she interwove the other character's 'changes' in life. There was so much here that I felt healing coming into my spirit...as if this were a self-help book, I was encouraged to remain strong and courageous. Not willing to fear the future and cast a cloud on today, my life has become an adventure full of surprises. I'll not fear what tomorrow will hold for me as if I'm predestined to have grief in my live forever but feel a freedom to savor each moment as if it were a present! Way to go Lolly, I'm a fan of yours and this novel was exceptional as well as priceless! I will be reading it again...there is so much here and I feel that you've not only taught me more about the processes we go through when unexpected 'change' comes through our doorstep but you've reminded me that we should all be honest enough to laugh as ourselves and enjoy the discovery of relationships around us. Not only do I have many 'family' members in my life as this protagonist, I expect there will be more that cross my path who could be just what I need. Everything happens for a reason, but that doesn't mean we will know the reason it happened to us. Bad things happen to good people, it's just the way of life...so we may as well find the blessings in our lives along the way. Even if we are plagued by 'memory loss' and 'sickness' it doesn't mean that we can't enjoy our life the way it is. Thanks for such a wonderful novel...this story was full of wonderful surprises and I was honored to travel the road with these characters! ...more <+++>Good Grief</+++> was on a bookshelf at my job last winter and I picked it up, read the first few chapters, and loved it. It chronicles Sophie's mental breakdown after she loses her husband to a cancer. Sounds very Lifetime-movie-of-the-week, I admit, but Winston managed to write something serious and make it tender and funny at the same time. I was bummed when the book went missing and kept forgetting to buy my own copy. I finally read it and I was disappointed. Really disappointed, actually. When Soph <+++>Good Grief</+++> was on a bookshelf at my job last winter and I picked it up, read the first few chapters, and loved it. It chronicles Sophie's mental breakdown after she loses her husband to a cancer. Sounds very Lifetime-movie-of-the-week, I admit, but Winston managed to write something serious and make it tender and funny at the same time. I was bummed when the book went missing and kept forgetting to buy my own copy. I finally read it and I was disappointed. Really disappointed, actually. When Sophie decides to up and leave her town and move across the country with her recently-separated friend, I thought, okay, cool. Kind of a rogue widow. I like. She wants to become a \"better\" person and becomes a big-sister to a pyromaniac 13-year-old (<---B>who is also a cutter</---B>). She screws up everything she does at first. Okay. Believable enough. But then the writing style delves into the chick-lit tone and I found myself predicting everything that was about to happen. And I got bored. The ending kind of felt too abrupt, even though I guess you know where it's going. Another minor gripe? The title. It felt too obvious and too goofy. All I could picture was Charlie Brown whenever I heard the title. BUT...that all being said. Winston does an incredible job telling us what it's like to be a young widower. The little details she puts here and there, the things that a widower won't notice is missing until it happens, are touching. She goes for subtle in those instances rather than the big picture. And she is very, very funny at several parts. The first few chapters were definitely her strongest. I loved all the exchanges/encounters she had with her former boss. I think Winston just doesn't know her style well enough yet. She's great at self-deprecating humor and very intuitive, but she keeps seeming to go toward the genre that's \"easy\". Hopefully the next book she puts out won't feel like that. ...more Sophie Stanton is a widow at age 36. Her husband died of cancer. This book looks at how she moves through the stages of grief. She tries to go to support groups. She self-medicates with strong prescription drugs with disastrous results. She eats tons of food - pints of ice cream, packages of Oreos - while sitting in bed crying and watching COPS. For weeks on end. Finally she makes a move across the country in an attempt to jar herself out of this breakdown. Her father and her stepmother take care Sophie Stanton is a widow at age 36. Her husband died of cancer. This book looks at how she moves through the stages of grief. She tries to go to support groups. She self-medicates with strong prescription drugs with disastrous results. She eats tons of food - pints of ice cream, packages of Oreos - while sitting in bed crying and watching COPS. For weeks on end. Finally she makes a move across the country in an attempt to jar herself out of this breakdown. Her father and her stepmother take care of her for a while, making sure she showers and eats. She finally gets her own place and starts working as a waitress. Things go on from there but I'll keep mum because I don't want to give away the whole book. Sophie takes in a \"Little Sister\" (a child in need who she sees once a week to talk to and spend time with) named Crystal. She ends up with a 14-year-old who is a self-mutilator and pyromaniac. Sophie is a much better person than I am because she forgives Crystal for setting fires at her house (Sophie's house) not ONCE but TWICE!!!! Ay caray. Anyway, she's always finding Crystal with some gigantic burn on her leg or with bloody arms and has to take her to the hospital. I guess Sophie likes feeling needed, but I would've gone (even more) crazy having to deal with all the crises the girl was creating. Sophie eventually starts dating and starts her own business and kind of moves on with her life. Of course, the pain of losing her husband never goes away, but she has learned to keep living and manage the pain. The two parts that made me laugh: When Sophie is working as a waitress and accidently tips some hot shrimp down a woman's blouse. When Sophie decides that adopting Crystal's \"teenage attitude\" will actually help Sophie if she uses it in her life. Here's a sample: \"Whatever\" is her answer to most questions. She has two ways of saying it. She either exhales a weary \"Whatever,\" as though the thought of doing anything other than preening her split ends is too enervating, or she indignantly snaps, \"Whatever,\" as though the question is a personal attack. I'd like to adopt this approach. Sophie, your husband died. \"WhatEVER.\" And you're fired. \"As if I even LIKED that job.\" And you're depleting your savings with no means of income in sight. \"That is SO not a problem. I could, like, TOTALLY get a new job.\" ...more I picked up this paperback not expecting too much more than some light fluff for my vacation. I was pleasantly surprised that it turned out to be such a good story. It is about a woman recently widowed and how she copes with her grief and rebuilds her life. I thought the author did a good job showing her grief and how there is humour in the sadness. This author is really funny but real and I enjoyed the story despite the sad subject. I plan on sharing it with a friend who lost her husband at a yo I picked up this paperback not expecting too much more than some light fluff for my vacation. I was pleasantly surprised that it turned out to be such a good story. It is about a woman recently widowed and how she copes with her grief and rebuilds her life. I thought the author did a good job showing her grief and how there is humour in the sadness. This author is really funny but real and I enjoyed the story despite the sad subject. I plan on sharing it with a friend who lost her husband at a young age as I think she would get a lot out of it. ...more A quick read; funny, likable protagonist but the plot is a little too pat. Devastated widow leaves old life behind. Sells house, moves to Oregon, opens a bakery, joins the Big Sister organization and finds that by helping others she helps herself - Amen. P.S. She also immediately finds a handsome, hot, helpful straight guy who wants to marry her. Maybe this should be shelved under fantasy. Read this one on audiobook, and found it totally charming. I chose it mainly because it was one of the few audiobooks in the sorry rural Arkansas library collection that I hadn't read, and my expectations were low. The evil librarian said, \"That's a good book.\" when I checked it out. (I used to really hate people commenting on my book, video or grocery choices after I moved to Arkansas, but it's a fact of life here, and I've gotten used to it--although I still hate it when it comes from the evil Read this one on audiobook, and found it totally charming. I chose it mainly because it was one of the few audiobooks in the sorry rural Arkansas library collection that I hadn't read, and my expectations were low. The evil librarian said, \"That's a good book.\" when I checked it out. (I used to really hate people commenting on my book, video or grocery choices after I moved to Arkansas, but it's a fact of life here, and I've gotten used to it--although I still hate it when it comes from the evil librarians.) Irritating as it was, the old bag was right. It's about a 36 year-old woman whose husband just died of cancer, and describes her grief in a wry style, all the while wringing your heart out. The main character and I have similar senses of humor, and would probably have been great friends (if one of us wasn't fictional). I teared up all over the place while listening. It was the perfect book for me at that particular moment, for a variety of reasons--I guess books really DO choose us sometimes. ...more This is an amazingly well-written book for a first novel. I was torn between giving it a 3 or a 4. On the basis of the writing, it deserves a 4. The only reason that I didn't \"really, really like it\" was because the subject matter, while realistically presented, was so painful. This book is about the first year of a young woman's widowhood, and by necessity the first half is about her agony, grief and depression. In the second half, she starts the healing process and develops ways to cope and mo This is an amazingly well-written book for a first novel. I was torn between giving it a 3 or a 4. On the basis of the writing, it deserves a 4. The only reason that I didn't \"really, really like it\" was because the subject matter, while realistically presented, was so painful. This book is about the first year of a young woman's widowhood, and by necessity the first half is about her agony, grief and depression. In the second half, she starts the healing process and develops ways to cope and move onward with her life, and that part is inspiring. ...more Such a strange experience, a topic that is a total heart-break, why do you find yourself giggling??? <---A>Lolly Winston</---A> has a wonderful way of developing characters. I was particularly impressed with her ability to write the teenage character Crystal, it seemed spot on accurate and I wonder at how she was able to write her so clearly. I think the only thing that had me rating this novel with only three stars is the main character's ability to cope with the death of her husband so quickly and neatly. M Such a strange experience, a topic that is a total heart-break, why do you find yourself giggling??? Lolly Winston has a wonderful way of developing characters. I was particularly impressed with her ability to write the teenage character Crystal, it seemed spot on accurate and I wonder at how she was able to write her so clearly. I think the only thing that had me rating this novel with only three stars is the main character's ability to cope with the death of her husband so quickly and neatly. Most people might disagree with this assessment, but I have worked around people that have lost loved ones and they were not as \"put together\" 10 years later as this character was less than one year later. Granted, the circumstances of death were much different and I wonder if that has something to do with it, but I found a part of me not wanting the happy ending that I got. I guess my personal agenda of wanting society to accept those grieving with more tolerance has jaded my opinion of this book. ...more Probably a 4 1/2, but then, I could change my mind. I logged in this book a few days before writing this review, and found I missed the characters, their ins and outs, the folks they met along the way so much, I upgraded ! This is a glimpse into grief, and how differently it is handled. The central character, Sophie Stanton, is widowed very young losing her husband to cancer after three years of marriage. The Parts are divided into sub-parts which are the stages of grief and how Sophie deals with Probably a 4 1/2, but then, I could change my mind. I logged in this book a few days before writing this review, and found I missed the characters, their ins and outs, the folks they met along the way so much, I upgraded ! This is a glimpse into grief, and how differently it is handled. The central character, Sophie Stanton, is widowed very young losing her husband to cancer after three years of marriage. The Parts are divided into sub-parts which are the stages of grief and how Sophie deals with these stages. One author-reviewer says : \"A lighthearted and amusing novel about loss, grief, and the therapeutic effects of baking. I love Sophie Stanton and I want her recipes !\" Audrey Niffenegger It should become a movie ! But who is cute enough, crazy enough, and compassionate enough to play Sophie ? ...more I read this book in what basically turned out to be a sick day, lolling on my couch. Normally, books about widowhood make me very nervous, because it is one of my biggest fears to think about life without javaczuk. I often tell him if he dies before me, I'll kill him. I just don't want to contemplate it at all. But at Rebekkila's urging, I read this, and found it to be in the upper end of chick lit, with some believable characters, touching not only on grief, but issues of trust, and some other I read this book in what basically turned out to be a sick day, lolling on my couch. Normally, books about widowhood make me very nervous, because it is one of my biggest fears to think about life without javaczuk. I often tell him if he dies before me, I'll kill him. I just don't want to contemplate it at all. But at Rebekkila's urging, I read this, and found it to be in the upper end of chick lit, with some believable characters, touching not only on grief, but issues of trust, and some other societal ills, with grace and sensitivity -- an humor. Thank goodness it didn't have the gay best friend, though it did have the life saving bakery come into the story. All in all, it was a good companion on a rainy spring day. Gentlemen, start your hairdryers... ...more As I read this book I found myself alternately giggling or holding back tears, and nodding my head in agreement; uh huh, I've done that myself (wearing Kelly's clothes, being angry because he's not here, wanting to pull the covers over my head, etc.) The story is engaging, the author has a light touch, but it seemed almost too trivial in places,or perhaps contrived would be a better description, like the author is making sure all of the \"steps of grieving\" are included in the book. I wouldn't go As I read this book I found myself alternately giggling or holding back tears, and nodding my head in agreement; uh huh, I've done that myself (wearing Kelly's clothes, being angry because he's not here, wanting to pull the covers over my head, etc.) The story is engaging, the author has a light touch, but it seemed almost too trivial in places,or perhaps contrived would be a better description, like the author is making sure all of the \"steps of grieving\" are included in the book. I wouldn't go out of my way to read it again, but I could relate to a lot of it, and it was entertaining. If it was a movie, it would most likely be rated PG-13. ...more Simpati\u010dno napisana te\u0161ka tema.. Bilo bi super da iz tugovanja svi dobijemo peticu, kao i glavna protagonistica! ;-) This really should be a 3.5 stars. This book has been sitting on my shelf for so long, I don\u2019t even remember why I originally purchased it. I admit that one of the reasons I passed over this book so many times is because I figured it would be depressing, all about death/dying, or too much of a chick-lit-book, or maybe just not very interesting. Well, sure, there was a bit about death and dying, but the author finds a realistic way of looking at how people tend to deal with grief over the death of This really should be a 3.5 stars. This book has been sitting on my shelf for so long, I don\u2019t even remember why I originally purchased it. I admit that one of the reasons I passed over this book so many times is because I figured it would be depressing, all about death/dying, or too much of a chick-lit-book, or maybe just not very interesting. Well, sure, there was a bit about death and dying, but the author finds a realistic way of looking at how people tend to deal with grief over the death of a loved one, even showing the humorous side of some of the things grieving people may find themselves doing. And it definitely was not a chick-lit-book \u2013 it was just a story about people and life. Overall, this was a really well-written story. I thought the characters were interesting and I enjoyed watching the progression in their relationships and the fact that none of the characters or their relationships were perfect, as in real life. By the end of the story, I felt that everything wrapped up the way it should have, and I turned the final page with satisfaction. The only thing that I was even slightly disappointed in was the fact that the reader never learns what the name of Sophie\u2019s bakery is. I wanted to know if it would have a name that would somehow honor Ethan, or somehow honor Sophie for all of the strides she\u2019d made in her life since Ethan\u2019s death \u2013 or neither. I wonder why the author decided to leave the name out of the story? Regardless, this book was very enjoyable overall. I can\u2019t remember reading anything else by this author, but now that I have, I may have to seek out more. ...more You know that time when you're too young to know better about books? Yes? Well, that happened to me when I was thirteen and my literary tastes had not yet fomented themselves. Mind you, I was already a huge Harry Potter fan. However, my opinionated parents encouraged me to try different types of books. And along came my good-humored neighbor and told my mother to read this book. It was like her salvation. My mother then tossed the book to me and said I should give it a try. So, I started reading You know that time when you're too young to know better about books? Yes? Well, that happened to me when I was thirteen and my literary tastes had not yet fomented themselves. Mind you, I was already a huge Harry Potter fan. However, my opinionated parents encouraged me to try different types of books. And along came my good-humored neighbor and told my mother to read this book. It was like her salvation. My mother then tossed the book to me and said I should give it a try. So, I started reading it and couldn't connect. You know, I'm just a thirteen year old whose reading a story about a widow thirty-six year old! First, a twenty age gap isn't going to help our fictional character and teenager relationship bond. Second, I'm not married, even after six years. And sure as hell I wasn't married back then, not even had a boyfriend. But anyway. I try to relate with her depression and lack of wanting anything to do. I felt I was going to go in a coma for her inactivity and lack of coping device since her husband's death. But who am I to judge? Then came along the fire-maniac thirteen year old girl. She was fascinating, but I didn't connect with her either. Nor with the movie star- then boyfriend. Well, this book gave me something to understand about myself. Chick-lits are not for me. They bore me to hell. However, I did help my sister craft a book report based on this book and boy I had some strong opinions not apt for a fifth grade book report. ...more This is a funny and heartwarming book about a young woman's fight to build a new life after the death of her husband. Sophie Stanton is in her mid thirties and loses her young husband to cancer. In an age where women are expected to be high-achievers, Sophie desperately wants to be a good widow but things don't turn out that way as she is not the sterotypical type. Instead she puts away gallons of ice-cream and has major breakdowns which in turn cause her to lose her job, to say the least. Once This is a funny and heartwarming book about a young woman's fight to build a new life after the death of her husband. Sophie Stanton is in her mid thirties and loses her young husband to cancer. In an age where women are expected to be high-achievers, Sophie desperately wants to be a good widow but things don't turn out that way as she is not the sterotypical type. Instead she puts away gallons of ice-cream and has major breakdowns which in turn cause her to lose her job, to say the least. Once she shows up for work in her bathrobe and bunny slippers which is pretty much the end of her job and the rest of what she had from the so to say stable life she had. Desperate to stay above water she decides to take up a friends offer and to move in with her and her daughter in Ashland, Oregon. Instead of the way one would think things turned out, the opposite happens and Sophie ends up learning a lot about life and others to include her lover and a young teenage girl she takes under her arm. This is a heartwarming, tear jerking comedy with a lot of life lessons that catch you by surprise. The characters in this book show that with enought perserverance, humor and an open mind,it is possible to have life after loss. Hard to put down and lots of food for thought. ...more I picked this book up years ago for a dollar and I'm not sure why. I think I just liked the title. I know I hated the cover graphic of a pair of bunny slippers. I didn't expect much from it, it seemed like 'chick lit does widowhood.' But I'm so glad I read it because it was just wonderful. Sophie Stanton is a 36 year old woman who is widowed after 3 years of marriage. She completely falls apart and the story of her coming apart and subsequent healing is beautifully told. One thing that I loved ab I picked this book up years ago for a dollar and I'm not sure why. I think I just liked the title. I know I hated the cover graphic of a pair of bunny slippers. I didn't expect much from it, it seemed like 'chick lit does widowhood.' But I'm so glad I read it because it was just wonderful. Sophie Stanton is a 36 year old woman who is widowed after 3 years of marriage. She completely falls apart and the story of her coming apart and subsequent healing is beautifully told. One thing that I loved about her was that she was able to look at herself, even in her moments of near insanity, and laugh. The supporting characters are equally interesting. I'm sure Joan Didion would have a stroke if she saw herself compared to Lolly Winston, but this book reminded me so much of \"The Year of Magical Thinking.\" This is a less literate, less serious, more accessible and, yes, humor filled looked at a woman who has recently been widowed. While Didion's life is marked by her loss of her constant partner of her entire adult life, Sophie Stanton's is marked by the loss of her potential future. Completely different looks at the same premise. I think the resolution of some of the plots was a bit too facile but I so enjoyed the majority of this book. ...more I would have given this book only 3 stars if it hadn't made me laugh so much and right out loud. That alone brings it up a star in my opinion. This is a fun easy read about a woman who had lost her hustand to cancer and follows her through the first 18 months after his death. You get to go through her grief process with her. The story is told with so much insight and humor that you fall in love with Sopie the widow. In her own words, she desperately wants to be a good widow - graceful, composed I would have given this book only 3 stars if it hadn't made me laugh so much and right out loud. That alone brings it up a star in my opinion. This is a fun easy read about a woman who had lost her hustand to cancer and follows her through the first 18 months after his death. You get to go through her grief process with her. The story is told with so much insight and humor that you fall in love with Sopie the widow. In her own words, she desperately wants to be a good widow - graceful, composed, Jackie Kennedy kind of widow. Alas, she is more of the Jack Daniels kind - self-medicating with icecream and having break downs at the market. She breaks your heart as you see how she falls apart, but she always tells the story with so much humor that you have to laugh out loud. I could see myself in her shoes throughout the whole book. The other characters that fill out the book are a wonderful collection of interesting and different people. I cried, cheered and laughed my way through this book. ...more This novel tells of a widow who struggles to regain some measure of normalcy (with varying degrees of success). I was a little peeved when she would go out to eat at restaurants and attend theatre and then complain about not having enough money, but for the most part, she's a wonderfully human character, struggling through the loss of her husband, her house, her job, and her waistline. If she were a real-life person, I'd want to meet her for coffee. This novel balances the protagonist's hardship This novel tells of a widow who struggles to regain some measure of normalcy (with varying degrees of success). I was a little peeved when she would go out to eat at restaurants and attend theatre and then complain about not having enough money, but for the most part, she's a wonderfully human character, struggling through the loss of her husband, her house, her job, and her waistline. If she were a real-life person, I'd want to meet her for coffee. This novel balances the protagonist's hardships with many doses of humor, both wry and slapstick, and it delivers plenty of laughs. Although the book describes situations that are less-than-ideal -- that are tragic in many ways -- the book itself is neither depressing nor despairing. It simply tells the tale of a woman who, like any woman, is just trying to cope, and who finds sorrow, joy, and hilarity along the way. ...more What a pleasant surprise Lolly Winston's story turned out to be. Despite the heartbreaking and painful subject matter, the narrative is light, witty, with some really funny moments there. More than Sophie's tough times battling depression after losing her husband of 3 years to cancer, the story has a good dose of compassion, friendship and companionship... with yummy-for-my-tummy cheesecakes and cookies thrown into the mix. This was a really good read, a perfect balance between deep emotions and light-heartedness. I loved how realistic the characters seemed, and I particularly loved Sophie's relationship with the young girl. The only iffy part for me was that she started a new romance within the year. Maybe its because I've been married so long... but I cannot imagine starting a new romance that quickly. Nonetheless, it was a perfect summer read that left me smiling. This was my second time reading this book. I enjoyed it better the first time. Would give it a 3.5. Worthy read. Character loses husband to cancer & struggles through the first year of grief. Very touching & quirky insight into grief I thought this was beautifully written. It was funny as well as touching. I felt sad for the character because I have seen first hand someone close to me deal with how hard it is to live after a loved one has passed on. Lovely story. I will be reading more from this author. Re-read this fabulous novel this weekend, as a way to treat myself. It is alternately funny, disarming, and insightful. One of my favorites. Loved, loved, loved this book! Highly recommend it ! Conveying a Character's Journey on the First Page of a Novel Notes on Good Grief, by Lolly Winston by Bill Johnson I teach that a story creates movement and the movement transport an audience. In many of the unpublished novels I read, I'm often 40 pages into a manuscript before I have any idea of a main character's journey. In some cases, I have to read to the end of a novel to understand that journey. This puts me (and readers) in the unfortunate position of needing to keep track of all the detail Conveying a Character's Journey on the First Page of a Novel Notes on Good Grief, by Lolly Winston by Bill Johnson I teach that a story creates movement and the movement transport an audience. In many of the unpublished novels I read, I'm often 40 pages into a manuscript before I have any idea of a main character's journey. In some cases, I have to read to the end of a novel to understand that journey. This puts me (and readers) in the unfortunate position of needing to keep track of all the details about a character while I wait for some sense of purpose to become apparent. This makes reading a novel work. Lolly Winston's novel Good Grief has a structure that clearly conveys the stages of grief that a young woman goes through when her husband dies and leaves her a widow. This external framework communicates that the novel has a clearly defined beginning, middle, and end. From its opening lines, the story has a destination. Each stage of the main character's journey is divided into sections. The chapters in Part One are about denial, oreoes, anger, depression, escrow, and ashes. Each chapter that follows is about the main character's journey in dealing with her grief over her husband's death. The title, Good Grief, speaks to the narrator learning that there can be good grief (which revolves around passing through the stages of grief) and bad grief (getting stuck on the journey). A review of the opening of Good Grief conveys how a main character's journey is set out. The opening line: How can I be a Widow? The answer to this question comes in the opening paragraphs as the narrator sits in a grief support group. In a few paragraphs, the narrator explains why she's in the group. My name is Sophie and I've joined the grief group because...well, because I sort of did a crazy thing. I drove my Honda through our garage door. What's important about these lines is they show the narrator is not only in grief, she's being overwhelmed by grief. What set up the garage accident was an irrational thought that she needed to get into the house quickly to tell her husband something. Except he's deceased. She's in denial. Continuing in a few paragraphs: Maybe later I'll tell the group how I dream about Ethan every night. That he's still alive in the eastern standard time zone and if I fly to New York, I can see him for another three hours. The narrator tries to deal with her grief by going back to work, but she quickly finds herself overwhelmed. In the past, when she felt overwhelmed, she called her husband. The chapter ends with these lines. The cursor on my computer screen pulses impatiently, and the red voice mail light on my phone flashes. My stomach growls and my head throbs. But I can't call my husband. Because, here's the thing: I am a widow. She has started to come out of her denial about her husband's death. The first chapter is a clearly defined journey on her journey through grief. Each chapter continues that journey until the narrator has passed through good grief to being whole again. Highly recommended for writers who want to learn about structure from reading a well-written novel. ********************************************* A fourth edition of Bill Johnson's writing workbook, A Story is a Promise & The Spirit of Storytelling, is now available for $2.99 from Amazon Kindle, http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004V020N0 ...more I came across Good Grief a year and a half after my husband's death. At the urging of a wonderful friend to watch my then young daughters for a day, I finally took her up on her offer and found myself list in B&N wandering the aisles of books in a fog. The cover grabbed my attention quickly. It reminded me of my own pink house slippers that I had almost refused to take off except for showering and honestly I recall some days I would have showered in them and my clothes just to skip the task I came across Good Grief a year and a half after my husband's death. At the urging of a wonderful friend to watch my then young daughters for a day, I finally took her up on her offer and found myself list in B&N wandering the aisles of books in a fog. The cover grabbed my attention quickly. It reminded me of my own pink house slippers that I had almost refused to take off except for showering and honestly I recall some days I would have showered in them and my clothes just to skip the task of removing them. With a cup of coffee, and in a comfortable chair, I read the first chapter in B&N. I was instantly hooked. I desired to rmeet Sophie. I wanted to meet her. I already knew her , hell I was her. Suddenly, I no longer felt alone. While a figment of Lolly Winston's imagination Sophie was much more than a fictional character. It didn't matter. Sophie was a widow. Sophie was confused, lost and lonely. She had lost her best friend and her husband. I was feeling the same feelings as Sophie and I began to think I was Sophie as if someone secretly filmed my life for the last two years after my husband's death. Ironically, during those first years, I had a 19 year old girl move into my home as the \"nanny\" for my two young daughters. I had stolen her away from the \"luxurious\" yet secure job she held at the daycare I had enrolled my daughters in shortly after my husband's illness. After five years as a stay home wife and mother NOW I had to return to the workforce. I couldn't stand the thought of my girls at daycare so my master plan was to keep them at home while I continued to work. Whom better to be the \"Nanny\" than someone whom had known them for a whopping two weeks plus she had \"experience\". It was only after my husband's death that I asked her to move in full time. The 10 months that followed could be classified as \"lost tapes\" of Lucy and Ethel. Sophie is a true heroine. Even when arriving to sork in her pink house slippers and robe. Even during a meltdown of epic porportion and a carb feast /fest of the century--hot dog buns and honey, anyone? We widows have been there -- i have -- ill own it! Sophie weathered the storm, receiving some damage that could qualify for an insurance claim. Despite it all, love loss, career loss. and a loss of herself, Sophie made it out of the storm. Even stronger than before. There is no application for The Widow's Club. Those of us card carrying members are VIPs. Some or all of our friends and family have thought of involuntary commitment at some point. In the end, we manfage to pull it together just like Sophie, For some, we will eventually convert back to the \"wives club\", while other widows remain active members for years. Either way, we are NOT alone. Winston shares Sophie with us, and her deepest, darkest feelings along with the perfect balance of dark humor and laugh at loud moments to ensure us while we are grieving for our loss there is \"good grief\" ...more Lolly Winston is quickly rising to the top of my favorite writers list. This is the second of her books I've read, and while I didn't love it as much as I loved Happiness Sold Separately , I loved enough to grant it a place on my \"books I'll keep\" shelf. Sophie is 36 and a widow. Her husband, Ethan, has recently succumbed to cancer, and while she wants to be an elegant and graceful widow, she instead turns into a basket case widow. She arrives at work on the day of a key meeting wearing her slippe Lolly Winston is quickly rising to the top of my favorite writers list. This is the second of her books I've read, and while I didn't love it as much as I loved Happiness Sold Separately , I loved enough to grant it a place on my \"books I'll keep\" shelf. Sophie is 36 and a widow. Her husband, Ethan, has recently succumbed to cancer, and while she wants to be an elegant and graceful widow, she instead turns into a basket case widow. She arrives at work on the day of a key meeting wearing her slippers and robe. Oreos become the main staple in her diet. Something's got to give, and Sophie eventually decides to sell her house--their house--and move to Oregon to be near her best friend, Ruth. She takes on a Little Sister, and tries to carve out a new existence for herself in the midst of the first year of widowhood. The book spans the entire first year and then some. It harkened back to Marian Keyes's Is Anybody Out There? , which I liked much more than this book. Marian Keyes had me weeping from the middle of the book to the end, but I remained stoic during Good Grief . There were a few times I welled up, but nothing serious. I did, however, turn to look at the form of my sleeping husband next to me in bed and marvel how lucky I am. I liked the writing a lot. There were the usual reminders of enjoying the people you have in your life while you have them and living for today, but it was couched in such lovely ways that it didn't feel cloying. For instance, Sophie and Ethan's mother Marian go to the beach for Ethan's birthday to put some roses in the water where they scattered his ashes. Sophie is wistful that Ethan was always at work and never spent enough time with his wife for her liking. She says: It was always for us. He said I needed to realize that and focus more on the future. Now I'm here in the future with a handful of yellow roses. Beautiful. ...more A friend recommended this book to me, and it was a worthwhile read. It covers the span of about a year and a half, beginning two months after Sophie's husband dies. She's not quite sure how to deal with it, so she quits her job, packs up her house, and moves north to live near her best friend from college in Ashland, OR. There, she starts to put her life back together, volunteers with the Big Sisters program, though which she gains an attention-starved 13-year-old \"little sister\", starts dating A friend recommended this book to me, and it was a worthwhile read. It covers the span of about a year and a half, beginning two months after Sophie's husband dies. She's not quite sure how to deal with it, so she quits her job, packs up her house, and moves north to live near her best friend from college in Ashland, OR. There, she starts to put her life back together, volunteers with the Big Sisters program, though which she gains an attention-starved 13-year-old \"little sister\", starts dating an actor, and discovers how much she loves cooking. The author did a good job with the pacing and the characters. Sophie is very likable and her train of thought, while not always linear, usually made sense. I got a good sense of her character and what she thought about the world around her. There were some moments where she didn't make the best decisions, but I suppose that's the way it goes in every book (as well as in life). Some of the best moments were the interactions between Sophie and her Little Sister, as it shows Sophie both helping someone else and letting someone help her, even if she doesn't realize it at the time. They had a great relationship that I'd definitely say was the strongest in the entire book. The book wavered between being a strong dramatic read and being chick-lit, a little heavier on the latter style. I think it worked well in this case and let the book feel lighter overall, though I don't know if that's a good or a bad thing - it's just the way it is. My only real complaint about the book was the ending and how abrupt it was. I think I expected a little more resolution or insight from the end, as Sophie had grown a lot throughout the story, but it just... ended. Still, I did enjoy the book overall and thought it had a lot of charm. ...more Este foi um livro que trouxe da biblioteca sem ter nenhuma refer\u00eancia acerca dele. Foi uma escolha totalmente ao acaso e n\u00e3o me arrependi. Sophie \u00e9 uma mulher que de um momento para o outro v\u00ea a doen\u00e7a instalar-se na sua casa e \"rouba-lhe\" o marido com quem est\u00e1 casada \u00e0 tr\u00eas anos. Confrontada com a morte, Sophie cai no abismo da tristeza e da solid\u00e3o e d\u00e1 in\u00edcio a um dos processos mais dif\u00edceis da condi\u00e7\u00e3o humana: o processo de luto. O conte\u00fado \u00e9 bastante fiel \u00e0quilo a que podemos chamar de proce Este foi um livro que trouxe da biblioteca sem ter nenhuma refer\u00eancia acerca dele. Foi uma escolha totalmente ao acaso e n\u00e3o me arrependi. Sophie \u00e9 uma mulher que de um momento para o outro v\u00ea a doen\u00e7a instalar-se na sua casa e \"rouba-lhe\" o marido com quem est\u00e1 casada \u00e0 tr\u00eas anos. Confrontada com a morte, Sophie cai no abismo da tristeza e da solid\u00e3o e d\u00e1 in\u00edcio a um dos processos mais dif\u00edceis da condi\u00e7\u00e3o humana: o processo de luto. O conte\u00fado \u00e9 bastante fiel \u00e0quilo a que podemos chamar de processo de luto. Sophie passa pelas diferentes fases, ultrapassando problemas diversos e ganhando a for\u00e7a necess\u00e1ria para ultrapassar uma fase de grande tristeza. \u00c9 um relato que apesar de trespassar a tristeza consegue, em alguns momentos fazer-nos sorrir e, no fim sentimo-nos satisfeitos com a evolu\u00e7\u00e3o emocional de Sophie. A grande luta de Sophie foi perceber que fisicamente as pessoas morrem, mas continuam no nosso cora\u00e7\u00e3o. Felizmente \u00e9 um lugar que n\u00e3o permite despejos nem substitui\u00e7\u00f5es. Uma vez alojadas a\u00ed as pessoas permanecem por tempo indefinido. Sophie foi percebendo isso... Fisicamente, o seu marido tinha deixado de estar presente, mas no seu cora\u00e7\u00e3o haver\u00e1 sempre um lugar para ele, mesmo que apare\u00e7am outras pessoas. Ao longo do livro \u00e9 f\u00e1cil entrarmos no mundo emocional da personagem, ficar feliz com as suas vit\u00f3rias e conquistas. \u00c9 como observar a cor surgir num lugar cinzento! Confesso que n\u00e3o gosto muito do t\u00edtulo. \u00c0 primeira vista parece um livro de auto-ajuda e isso pode afastar alguns leitores pouco f\u00e3s (como eu) deste g\u00e9nero de livros. Um aspecto que tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o me cativou muito foi o namorado que conquistou Sophie... Eles n\u00e3o t\u00eam nada que ver um com o outro. N\u00e3o senti muita empatia com o senhor. ...more<---C>Lolly Winston</---C>", "Title": "Good Grief"},
