{"Comments": "How Not to Review a Book: Do not begin your review by jumping off into some big old rant about how you never liked anything the author wrote before, particularly if you are about to praise their newest novel. Do not use phrases like \u201chow did this happen?\u201d and \u201cwhy now?\u201d and \u201care they near death?\u201d You may mention how impressed you were with the author\u2019s speaking engagements,<---M> mentioning in passing their brilliant encapsulation of</---M>, oh say, The Legend of Spud Murphy . Do not then mention how disappo How Not to Review a Book: Do not begin your review by jumping off into some big old rant about how you never liked anything the author wrote before, particularly if you are about to praise their newest novel. Do not use phrases like \u201chow did this happen?\u201d and \u201cwhy now?\u201d and \u201care they near death?\u201d You may mention how impressed you were with the author\u2019s speaking engagements, mentioning in passing their brilliant encapsulation of, oh say, The Legend of Spud Murphy . Do not then mention how disappointed you were in the book itself and how you always wished they\u2019d live up to that brilliant potential palpable in person.<---F> Don\u2019t do any of that</---F>. It\u2019ll just get your review off to a bad start and put all those Artemis Fowl fans on the defensive (<---B>for example</---B>). If you\u2019re going to write a review of a book that you loved, adored, swallowed whole and digested with relish, DO begin your review that way. Catharsis has not place in professional book review circles. Not the nice ones, anyway. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that roundabout little introduction is just my way of saying how much I loved <+++>Airman</+++> . It was one of those books I saw sitting on my boss\u2019s bookshelf that made me think, \u201cMaybe I should read that.\u201d It wasn\u2019t until multiple people told me in person and repeatedly how good it was that I caved. And it really is good, gentle reader. It puts the buckle in swashbuckling. The play in swordplay. The terror in terrific. It's a good old-fashioned tale of thwarted romance, betrayal, great heroism, murder, diamonds, villains, kings, Americans, thugs, and a boy with the unusual inclination to fly. The thing to know about <---C>Conor Broekhart</---C>, before all the nastiness occurred, was that he was born in the sky. A hot air balloon, if you wanted me to be more precise. A falling, soon-to-be-crushed, death trap of a balloon, to be even closer to the mark. Of course Conor didn't die, and as a result his family returned to their home on the Saltee Islands (just off the coast of Ireland) with a new baby to introduce to the King. Conor's father was the king's right hand man, and because they were so close the boy grew up running around the castle with his best friend, the princess. But that was before the king was murdered. Before Conor was thrown into jail on the Little Saltee island (think Alcatraz, but with less charm). Before the boy discovered how to survive in his new, harsh, surroundings and find a way out of his predicament. And now the princess and his family are in mortal peril, unless Conor can truly crack the riddle of how to construct a machine that will fly. Is it fantasy? No more than any historical novel where the hero indulges in science. Is it science fiction? Only if you consider the notion of one man discovering the use of propellers on his own fantastical. Is it steampunk? No. Stop being silly. No this is, odd as it may sound, fiction with spice. That's not really a category, so I don't know if you can call it anything but original. Frances Hardinge's Fly by Night suffered similar categorical problems. Her book seemed like a fantasy, but like this book it was merely an alternate history. Still, if lumping this puppy in with 500+ page fantasy tomes is the only way to get kids to read it, so be it. I've no objections on my end. For all its 416 pages, the book feels very tight. Colfer keeps a firm hand on the reins of his plot, never indulging too far in one direction or another. The result is a story that flies by with hardly a gasp for breath. This isn't to say that the author doesn't indulge in a small aside once in a while. He does, but they're always very quick and funny. For example, when the castle tower is on fire and King Nicholas must escape from his royal bathroom the text reads, \"There was a window, of course. Nicholas was a great believer in the benefits of good ventilation. He was a devotee of meditation, too; but this was hardly the time for it.\" There are also copious details that give the book just enough heft to keep it from feeling too frivolous. They tend to be little things. The scrape of the bolt on prison doors is described as \"Top C\", with the side note, \"Social diarists record that survivors of Little Saltee often suffered from insomnia unless their bedchamber doors were fitted with rusted bolts.\" There are references to Napoleon's stay at Little Saltee (apparently he fared poorly). I liked the little mites that eat away the disease and filth from new prisoners. And Conor's method of writing down his schematics is probably the closest this book comes to science fiction, without ever really treading fully down that path. Kids looking for excitement will find it from page one onward. And yet, for all its death-defying escapades, Colfer is very careful to cover his bases. He doesn't get sloppy on the details. By the end of the book the reasons why Conor wasn't killed at the same time as Nicholas and why the princess is left living are explained perfectly without so much as a glint of a gap in sight. Kids will enjoy the book because the characters are great and the story is fun. Adults will enjoy it because it won't require extraordinary suspensions of disbelief. Plus the fact that this is a stand-alone novel that does not lend itself naturally to sequels or a series is like a palate cleanser in this sequel-addled age with live in. Colfer shows himself to be a skillful writer by his interesting choices. Under normal circumstances, when the hero in a story has a plan and doesn't let the reader in on it, usually that plan goes off without a hitch. It doesn't look as if Colfer understood that concept, though, and the book is stronger for it. He also must have never heard the rule that the more often the hero is knocked unconscious, the worse the book is. Conor gets his own fair share of blows to the head, but the author always plays fair and never uses that as an excuse to fudge details or bridge insurmountable distances. Well played. I also had great respect for Colfer when he saw to it that his hero never became a murderer. Our heroes in movies and books like killing henchmen. The idea that an action packed storyline requires that your protagonist have blood on his hands is a complex issue, too easily skirted around. Colfer isn't afraid to face the problem head-on, though, making it perfectly clear that the \"kill or be killed\" mode of thought only means that under the right circumstances it is the people without the proper intelligence or imagination who are the ones who descend into becoming killers. And on a personal note, I was happy to see that the Yanks in this book come off looking pretty good. Good King Nicholas, the forward thinking monarch on the Saltee throne, is an American. Linus Wynter, the kind blind prisoner who helps Conor survive prison, is also an American. We haven't looked this good on paper since Lee Scoresby first showed his face in The Golden Compass . Some people say the book is The Count of Monte Cristo . Others argue that it feels more like The Man in the Iron Mask . With such esteemed comparisons, it shouldn't hurt matters any to also note that it also happens to be consistently interesting, smart, exciting, and fun. The finest book <---A>Eoin Colfer</---A> has ever written, and hopefully the start of more stories like this to come. Everyone should read it. For ages 8-15. ...more Fact: I was a nerd growing up (still am). Theory: Eoin Colfer was, too. Evidence: His books are a total celebration of nerd-dom. Honestly, between Artemis Fowl and now <+++>Airman</+++>, he's satisfying every daydreaming-during-trigonometry fantasy of every boy out there who's had to struggle with the fact that he has more brains than biceps. I'll admit that the main character in this book, Conor Broekhart, is tough and good-looking. But that's entirely secondary to the fact that he's a mechanical genius a Fact: I was a nerd growing up (still am). Theory: Eoin Colfer was, too. Evidence: His books are a total celebration of nerd-dom. Honestly, between Artemis Fowl and now Airman, he's satisfying every daydreaming-during-trigonometry fantasy of every boy out there who's had to struggle with the fact that he has more brains than biceps. I'll admit that the main character in this book, Conor Broekhart, is tough and good-looking. But that's entirely secondary to the fact that he's a mechanical genius and a nice guy. He wields weapons and wind tunnels with equal confidence, vanquishes his foes with superior courage and intelligence, and gets the girl to boot. See? Just like me, only after fencing lessons. My buddy Conor. Living the dream. ...more Know what I love these days??? Stand alone novels! No sequels, prequels, trilogies, remakes, rewrites, re-releases, etc. etc. etc. A single book with a beginning, middle, and end. I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I really enjoyed it - the plot, characters, and writing. At first I thought it would be a bit too similar to the Count of Monte Cristo, it even had a dash of Man in the Iron Mask thrown in. Despite that, it was still original and suspenseful and had me vested in the outcome. I ha Know what I love these days??? Stand alone novels! No sequels, prequels, trilogies, remakes, rewrites, re-releases, etc. etc. etc. A single book with a beginning, middle, and end. I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I really enjoyed it - the plot, characters, and writing. At first I thought it would be a bit too similar to the Count of Monte Cristo, it even had a dash of Man in the Iron Mask thrown in. Despite that, it was still original and suspenseful and had me vested in the outcome. I have never read any other works by Colfer (namely the Artimis Foul series) but if his other writings are similar to this story I will definitely read them. ...more \"Airman\" is the thrilling story of a fourteen year old boy named Conor Broekhart who dreams of flight. Unfortunately, his dreams are dashed when Conor is accused of murdering the king and is sent to the dreaded prison island of Little Saltee. All throughout his stay, Conor draws up his plans of escape, but the only way to escape Little Saltee is to fly. I loved Conor Broekhart so much. He was this sweet, innocent, and nerdy kid who was obsessed with planes and gliders and such. I loved getting t \"Airman\" is the thrilling story of a fourteen year old boy named Conor Broekhart who dreams of flight. Unfortunately, his dreams are dashed when Conor is accused of murdering the king and is sent to the dreaded prison island of Little Saltee. All throughout his stay, Conor draws up his plans of escape, but the only way to escape Little Saltee is to fly. I loved Conor Broekhart so much. He was this sweet, innocent, and nerdy kid who was obsessed with planes and gliders and such. I loved getting to read about little Conor at the beginning and seeing how much he grows and changes throughout the book. And I also loved seeing how he dealt with his crush on Isabella. *snickers* I must warn you that this book gets a bit dark. During his stay at Little Saltee, Conor changes. There's this part where I almost put the book down. Don't. It gets so much better. It almost broke my heart when he almost carried out his foul deed. But he didn't. #spoilers There are also a few parts where I was a bit horrified by the violence, though. *nods* Yeah. The beginning, to me, was a bit boring. At first, I didn't quite understand how this tied in to the rest of the story, but as the story went on, it got really good. It takes a little while for the book to get started, but once it does, it goes quite fast. It seemed like the story jumped around a bit. I would have liked it if the author focused on a few parts more than others, but oh well. I wasn't a huge fan of the last chapter. It just . . . I dunno. I thought it was kind of unnecessary. *shrugs* All in all, this book was great. I loved the characters, the plot, and the fast paced-ness. I would totally recommend this book to anyone and everyone who loves a good, adventurous story. ...more November 1-3, 2013 Only 42 stars, Past Sara? Really? I know you were trying to be funny with the Hitchhiker's reference there, but you were seriously undervaluing this book! It's AWESOME. Conor is THE BEST EVAR!!! It's kind of a teenage boy book, as it's about a teenage boy, but whatever! Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl books are really great, but this is my favorite of all his books! The audiobook is really great, too! LOVE IT!!!!!! August 25-27, 2010 Fabulous the second time around, too! :) November 9, November 1-3, 2013 Only 42 stars, Past Sara? Really? I know you were trying to be funny with the Hitchhiker's reference there, but you were seriously undervaluing this book! It's AWESOME. Conor is THE BEST EVAR!!! It's kind of a teenage boy book, as it's about a teenage boy, but whatever! Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl books are really great, but this is my favorite of all his books! The audiobook is really great, too! LOVE IT!!!!!! August 25-27, 2010 Fabulous the second time around, too! :) November 9, 2008 If I could give it 42 stars, I would. Ahhhhh!!!! It was SOOO SOOOOOOO SOOOOOOOOOO GOOD!!! Seriously... listening to it in the car probably wasn't safe, as periodically, I would slam the steering wheel in frustration or anticipation and yell, \"HOLY FREAKING CRAP!!!\" It was SOOOOOOO EXCITING!!! I loved it. (And of course I did.... it is \"recommended to listeners ages 12 to 17\"... durrrrr...) It ended so well! *giggly-happy sigh* :) Okay, so I suppose you want to know what it's about, eh? Well, it's about this kid, Conor Broekhart (Irish), who is 15 (after the prologue, which tells about how he was born in a hot-air balloon), who dreams of flying. He lives on a little island called Great Saltee. His father, mother, and he are close friends with the King and his daughter, Isabella. (Side note: I'm surprised to say, hearing her name NEVER reminded me of Bella (Twilight)! Shocking!) He kinda becomes sidekick to the royal scientist. I don't want to get into too much detail, but I'll write what's on the back of the CD: \"Conor spends his days studying the science of flight with his tutor and exploring the castle with the king's daughter, Princess Isabella [who routinely threatens to have him hanged... :)]. But the boy's idyllic life changes forever the day he discovers a deadly conspiracy against the king. When Conor tries to intervene, he is branded a traitor and thrown into jail on the prison island of Little Saltee. There, he has to fight for his life, as he and the other prisoners are forced to mind for diamonds in inhumane conditions. \"There is only one way to escape Little Saltee, and that is to fly....\" There's more, but holy spoilers, Batman! That was bad enough! It was fascinating and I loved it. ...more First of all, let me say that I am a total Eoin Colfer fan. Really. I bought this book without knowing anything about it except that Eoin Colfer wrote it--and I usually don't do that. He is such a skilled writer though. He effortlessly juggles pacing, dialogue, action, internal thought, characterization, description--all of it. He makes it look easy. And in omniscient point of view too. That said, I had a major problem with this book. One part was totally unbelievable. *spoiler alert* Oh, I was wil First of all, let me say that I am a total Eoin Colfer fan. Really. I bought this book without knowing anything about it except that Eoin Colfer wrote it--and I usually don't do that. He is such a skilled writer though. He effortlessly juggles pacing, dialogue, action, internal thought, characterization, description--all of it. He makes it look easy. And in omniscient point of view too. That said, I had a major problem with this book. One part was totally unbelievable. *spoiler alert* Oh, I was willing to believe that Connor, as a child, could make a hang glider out of a flag and toothpicks to save himself and the princess from a burning tower. (Okay, it wasn't toothpicks, but still . . .) I was willing to believe that he could escape from prison hanging onto a basketless air balloon, and even that he was able to sit down with some local lads and put together an airplane before the Wright brothers. Here is the scene that had me ejecting the CD and moaning, \"Why Eoin? Why would you write that?\" Obvious villain, Hugo, has just killed a man who is not only king, but also a close friend of Connor's family. He and the princess have been friends since birth and now have romantic feelings for each other. Fourteen year old Connor hears the murder happen, bursts into the room and tries to stop Hugo. Hugo beats him senseless, puts him in chains and tells Connor's father that Connor has killed the king. Connor's father, who happens to be captain of guards, goes to see his son in prison and--get this--never even asks Connor if he did it. He doesn't listen to his obviously beaten son, say anything. Instead he yells at Connor for being a traitor and disowns him. What??????!!!! Come on, the kid is fourteen! There's absolutely no evidence that Connor has done this crime and he has no motivation for doing it. Any half-way decent parent would at least ask if the allegation were actually true. Even a bad parent would try to defend their child if for no other reason then they wouldn\u2019t want to be tainted with the crime themselves. But not Connor's dad. He sends him off to a prison camp where he will be beaten some more. And if that isn't hard enough to believe, once Conner escapes, he harbors no ill feelings toward his father. Excuse me, my children harbor ill feelings toward me when I tell them they'll be excused from the dinner table if they don't use good table manners. (Really, I have one son who is still going on about a certain toast incident.) I never could really get over that aspect of the story. Still, it's always nice to listen to a guy with an Irish accent narrate the story. And the last Artemis Fowl book was totally awesome so I still love you, Eoin. ...more Conor Broekhart lives on a small island governed by King Nicholas Trudeau. Conor's days are spent with his tudor and playing with princess Isabella. But Conor's real passion is flying. All Conor's life he's dreamed of flying. He spends massive amounts of time and energy pursuing his obsession. That changes when he discovers a plot to overthrow the king and becomes tangled in the mess and branded as a traitor, being sent off to work in the diamond mines on little Saltee. I decided to read this boo Conor Broekhart lives on a small island governed by King Nicholas Trudeau. Conor's days are spent with his tudor and playing with princess Isabella. But Conor's real passion is flying. All Conor's life he's dreamed of flying. He spends massive amounts of time and energy pursuing his obsession. That changes when he discovers a plot to overthrow the king and becomes tangled in the mess and branded as a traitor, being sent off to work in the diamond mines on little Saltee. I decided to read this book because I saw that my friend had read it and given it 5 stars....so I was curious. I've read some of the artemis fowl books, but I wasn't impressed, and I thought that they were awfully violent. I really could have cared less about any new books Eoin Colfer had published, but I had read his Supernaturalist book and it wasn't too bad, so I decided to give this book a try. In the beginning I found the storyline to be pretty interesting, I kept reading because I wanted to know what would happen at the end, but when I finally got there, I was disappointed. I really thought it was annoying how the main character, Conor kept getting stuff thrown at him - all the time. It seemed like he could never really rest because something was about to happen, which was a little tiring for me. Even though I do approve of exciting and thrilling books, I do think that there are such things as \"too much excitement\" and this book crossed the line. I do know not what it is about Eoin Colfer but he always seems to include a decent amount of violence, and it really is rather unnerving. Everybody is constantly being brutally beaten up. Also, the bad guys are always BAD TO THE CORE, and Conor can usually tell what they are thinking by the look in their eyes (something I thought was unrealistic and slightly aggravating). Conor, that's another interesting aspect; I really thought that he was just a little too perfect. He was handsome, brilliant, athletic and loved by a princess - what more could he want? To me, the author describing him as such only made me like him less, I wanted someone that I could relate to. The reason this gets such a low rating is because I just could not bring myself to group it with the \"three star\" books, it just didn't seem quite up to par, while I thought it was an okay book without any language or adult content, I didn't enjoy it enough to recommend it to friends. I just don't really care for Eoin Colfer's writing style, his characters and the way they are portrayed just bugs me, but if you are a fan, you'd probably like this book. *Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008... ...more Airman is a very special book to me. I read it a few times when I was younger and I thought it was high time for a re-read. I'm so glad to find it even better than I remembered. As much as I love Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl series, I have to say that I think Airman is his best work so far (of the books I have read by him). It's simply a beautiful story. I'd forgotten how beautiful it really was. It also has a lot of adventure, a budding romance that I adored and some the most unique characters I Airman is a very special book to me. I read it a few times when I was younger and I thought it was high time for a re-read. I'm so glad to find it even better than I remembered. As much as I love Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl series, I have to say that I think Airman is his best work so far (of the books I have read by him). It's simply a beautiful story. I'd forgotten how beautiful it really was. It also has a lot of adventure, a budding romance that I adored and some the most unique characters I have ever read about. I am not kidding, this book has the best set of characters ever. How could someone forget about characters like the Victor 'La Brosse' Vigny, King Nicholas, Linus Wynter, Princess/Queen Isabella or Conor Broekhart himself and his parents, Declan and Catherine? Even little Sean Broekhart! They were all amazing. And as per usual with Eoin Colfer, we get a despicable villain who is just loathsome. Together with the story devided in three parts: Broekhart - Finn - Airman, it's just all part of Eoin Colfer's genius. I loved this book before but I love it even more now after re-reading it. I also have to say that I had a lot of emotional moments with this book. Conor goes through a whole lot of crap, going to prison because of that bastard Bonvilain and some parts really did bring tears to my eyes. So this book has been a rollercoaster of emotions but it was totally worth it. I was also rather giddy when Otto Malarkey came into the picture because he's also in The Reluctant Assassin. I just love Eoin Colfer for that. That and his totally amazing and awesome writing! So what else can I say but that I love Airman? I've always thought Artemis Fowl was by favorite book by him but I think I'll have to put Airman in that place now because... simply wow! Mr. Colfer has once again left me awe-struck with his amazing book, Airman! ...more Wow. That's all I can really say. This book, and my feels, took a beating. There were some points when I wanted to throw it across the room and go hurt something. It's that good. I advise, before you start this book, to invest in a good psychiatrist. The plotting is so...thick...so complex that I could hardly put it down. (Unfortunately, I had to, as I had to see to my life and feed myself.) But, really, Eoin Colfer, I love you dearly. The characters, the plot, the whole world is just fantastic Wow. That's all I can really say. This book, and my feels, took a beating. There were some points when I wanted to throw it across the room and go hurt something. It's that good. I advise, before you start this book, to invest in a good psychiatrist. The plotting is so...thick...so complex that I could hardly put it down. (Unfortunately, I had to, as I had to see to my life and feed myself.) But, really, Eoin Colfer, I love you dearly. The characters, the plot, the whole world is just fantastic. And, Mr. Colfer doesn't make you swim through pages of gelatinous prose. (Thank you, for that.)He's concise, descriptive, and legendary. The villains are delightfully...villainous. The protagonists--and there are many--are complex, and at times, flawed. I just...I can't believe that I stumbled on this book and wasn't sure of it at first. It changed. My. Life. Okay, so, as far as \"adult-ish\" situations go, I can't recall any, offhand. Language, a few H words, and...the D word. Violence--well, Conor is kind of beaten-up quite a few times. Nothing severely graphic. And, it's subtly steampunk, and that makes my day. Basically, it's a great book if you want to be emotionally attached to a bunch of characters who get beat up on by the world. Which, I'm all for. Thank you, Eoin Colfer, I bow to you, o great entity of spectacular words! ...more My wife mentioned the other day that I am \"all about the ending\" when it comes to books or movies. And that is why I can't bring myself to give Airman 5 stars even though it is one of the most enjoyable books I've read. A royal romance, a plot to overthrow the government, a prison break, and high-flying (literally - of course everything in a book is literal) adventure, and awesome names (Declan Brokehart is such a cool name) abound in this wonderfully written adventure following Conor Brokehart' My wife mentioned the other day that I am \"all about the ending\" when it comes to books or movies. And that is why I can't bring myself to give Airman 5 stars even though it is one of the most enjoyable books I've read. A royal romance, a plot to overthrow the government, a prison break, and high-flying (literally - of course everything in a book is literal) adventure, and awesome names (Declan Brokehart is such a cool name) abound in this wonderfully written adventure following Conor Brokehart's tale of tragedy and triumph. Colfer made me care about the characters and kept me turning pages. And while I wanted Conor to get out of trouble as quickly as possible, Colfer did a wonderful job of not rushing events or escapes. The good guys are good, the bad guys are bad, and the settings are cold and suitable for the plot to unfold. My only problem was that after being totally engrossed in the first 9/10 of the book the last bit left me going \"that's how it wraps up?\" I just wanted more from the ending. Otherwise Loved it! ...more Wonderful! Amazing! I can still feel the air in my face! I picked this book up quite a while ago, but never got around to reading it until I decided to give it away. I'm not sure why I never read it, because everything about this seems like it would be to my taste. I really enjoyed the Artemis Fowl series, and laugh like a loon whenever I read them, so I had a pretty good idea that I would like his other books, but still I put this off. Well I'm glad that I decided to give it away, because it gave me an excuse to read this sooner than later, and I'm h I picked this book up quite a while ago, but never got around to reading it until I decided to give it away. I'm not sure why I never read it, because everything about this seems like it would be to my taste. I really enjoyed the Artemis Fowl series, and laugh like a loon whenever I read them, so I had a pretty good idea that I would like his other books, but still I put this off. Well I'm glad that I decided to give it away, because it gave me an excuse to read this sooner than later, and I'm happy to say that I really enjoyed it. This was nothing like the AF series. There's not really any fantasy here, or magic or ridiculous jokes or gutter-humor or any of the stuff that I loved about the AF series, but I enjoyed this as much for the lack of those things as I loved AF for them. This book definitely has a more serious, somber tone, and in many ways it reminded me of one of the greats, The Count of Monte Cristo. That is a huge compliment coming from me, because COMC is without a doubt one of the greatest books about betrayal and revenge ever written, and I adored all 1300 pages of it. This is not a YA reproduction of The Count of Monte Cristo, however. The storyline here veers off in its own direction, and follows its own trail, but the tone, and some of the details just brought the classic to mind. I glanced at a few reviews of this book and see that a common complaint was the darkness and bleak feeling of the story, the hopelessness. I don't agree that that's how the story was portrayed. Yes, overall it was far from light and happy, but again the story warranted a darker and hopeless feeling. I thought the somber tone was appropriate for this story, considering all that poor Conor endured, and all that he lost: his freedom, his family, his love, his country, his honor. These are not happy events. Even so, Colfer did a great job at weaving some threads of lightness and humor into the story to break up the solemnity of the main story. It was done in a very subtle manner, not at all overstated and blatant like the humor in the Artemis Fowl series, but it had me giggling all the same. Anyway, what I'm trying to say is that the tone fit the story for me, and anything much lighter would have been out of place. Moving on to the characters, I have to say that I really liked all of them. I would have liked a little bit more depth, especially in Conor. As much as I liked him, and I really did, his only real flaw was in his despair and willingness to move on and start over without even trying to bring out the truth and set things to rights. I know that he'd been through a torturous 3 years, but considering that he was so determined in everything else, you'd think that his determination, and the anger at his mistreatment would spark a vengeance in him. He was just a little too perfect, a little too noble and charitable. I really liked Declan, Conor's father, and felt for his loss. He was grieving and feeling guilty and angry and lost himself. Even though I empathized with him, I still would have liked a bit more personal grief and anger from him. It was told, not felt. It served the purpose, but I would have just liked a bit more. The Marshall was decidedly villainous and evil, and even though I immensely disliked him, I could not help but laugh at some of his wittier comments and thoughts. He's so unabashedly bad that he becomes a bit funny, but not funny to the point at which he's no longer awful, but just funny as in \"Wow, I can't believe people are really THAT horrible!\" I really liked the scientific and engineering historical references in this story. It lent the book a feeling of realism and groundedness that it would have been lacking otherwise. I would still classify it as an adventure story, but with these details, it has a more real historical feel. I must admit that I was so engrossed in the story that I was surprised to find that 3/4 of it had passed in build-up, and that the resolution was yet to be hinted at. You'd think that the end would feel rushed in this kind of a situation, but I didn't feel that way after everything was said and done. The resolution, while very different than what I thought would occur, fit the story very well, and left the reader an opening to extend the ending as they choose. Overall, I really liked this one, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to someone looking for something enjoyable and interesting to read. ...more Well, I think I'll go ahead and give this one 4 stars, which is fairy high praise from me. I didn't care for Artemis Fowl when I read it years ago, but still decided to give this stand-alone novel a shot. Have I ever mentioned how much I LOVE stand-alone novels compared to fluffed trilogies or endless series? This book felt a bit like a superhero origin tale. Although it was a bit far fetched in some areas (of course our young protagonist learns fencing, wrestling, AND karate from a master, how c Well, I think I'll go ahead and give this one 4 stars, which is fairy high praise from me. I didn't care for Artemis Fowl when I read it years ago, but still decided to give this stand-alone novel a shot. Have I ever mentioned how much I LOVE stand-alone novels compared to fluffed trilogies or endless series? This book felt a bit like a superhero origin tale. Although it was a bit far fetched in some areas (of course our young protagonist learns fencing, wrestling, AND karate from a master, how convenient), you just kind of go along with the ride for the sake of the adventure. I mean, it all COULD happen, it's just a bit unlikely. Suspend a little disbelief, and just look at it like that superhero origin. Another reviewer compared this to the Count of Monte Cristo mixed with Batman and/or Ironman. That seems about right. The son of a king's guard, Conor, spends his days exploring the royal castle with his childhood friend the princess, while learning insane amounts of skills from his ridiculously talented tutor who is also obsessed with the idea that humans could someday fly on heavier-than-air machines. Years later, the king is murdered, and as part of the conspiracy Conor is tossed into prison while his family and friends think he's dead. In prison, he makes some powerful friends, and also squirrels away some of the diamonds that he and his fellow prisoners are forced to mine for. A daring escape later, and Conor is able to set about plans to build flying machines and seek revenge. So yeah...very Monte Cristo, and very much like a steampunk Ironman. Again, there were some things that were quite far fetched, but that's fine. I do wish that the female characters (Conor's mother and Princess Isabella) had gotten more screentime and development, but I guess that's the problem with spending so much time imprisoned. The ending also felt a bit weak and abrupt, so for these things I'll detract a star. ...more We liked this book a lot - drawn to it by Eoin Colfer, of course - but I have to say I am a bit sorry that my 11-year old daughter read it. I know that is a bit crazy because she has done the Hunger Games, Maze Runner and Divergent and they are filled with violence and stress that I hope neither she or any of her friends ever deal with or even think they'll come close to seeing in their lives but the details in those series seem to be on the edge of entertainment, as if there isn't ever a chance We liked this book a lot - drawn to it by Eoin Colfer, of course - but I have to say I am a bit sorry that my 11-year old daughter read it. I know that is a bit crazy because she has done the Hunger Games, Maze Runner and Divergent and they are filled with violence and stress that I hope neither she or any of her friends ever deal with or even think they'll come close to seeing in their lives but the details in those series seem to be on the edge of entertainment, as if there isn't ever a chance that they could happen. With Airman it's not something that our generation of kids could experience but the way that Eoin writes the main character - Conor - is so compelling that it was hard NOT to believe that this was happening and hard not to keep thinking about his situation after we were finished our nightly reading (I actually read on through the book without her - not a good thing to admit but I really needed to see what was going to happen). Any description of the book would be too much of a spoiler for anyone but I will say that this would be a wonderful choice for an older boy and a fine option for someone who had enjoyed Kenneth Oppel's current books about Young Frankenstein. If I were talking with kids or parents in the library I would caution them that the level of violence and torture in a section of the book that deals with a prison is enough to cause a sensitive stomach to turn over a bit but the power of the story and the way that Eion Colfer approaches it is worth that burbling stomach. Not for younger kids, even if they have the reading level, it is a teen read for sure. ...more I read this to my step-daughter. We had read Colfer\u2019s previous books all of which we enjoyed, so we were looking forward to this one. It was a disappointment. None of Eoin Colfer\u2019s books are exactly realistic, in the Artemis Fowl series for instance, fairies, centaurs and wild, impossible schemes abound, but there\u2019s a sense of fun, a playfulness that keeps the reader entertained and engaged. The Airman is serious, bleak even, so that there is nothing to balance the pure comic book evil of the vi I read this to my step-daughter. We had read Colfer\u2019s previous books all of which we enjoyed, so we were looking forward to this one. It was a disappointment. None of Eoin Colfer\u2019s books are exactly realistic, in the Artemis Fowl series for instance, fairies, centaurs and wild, impossible schemes abound, but there\u2019s a sense of fun, a playfulness that keeps the reader entertained and engaged. The Airman is serious, bleak even, so that there is nothing to balance the pure comic book evil of the villains or the horrors that befall our hero beginning at the tender age of 14. There are occasional attempts to inject a little humour every now and then but for the most part they just fall flat and in our case were more likely to induce a shake of the head shake than giggles. As horrific as Connor\u2018s life becomes the feats he accomplishes are just as extreme. As much as I wanted him to succeed, I couldn\u2019t help but roll my eyes as he defeats astounding odds time after time after time. Even if I could bring myself to suspend my disbelief long enough to accept Connor\u2019s extreme intellectual and mechanical brilliance (augmented, of course with oodles of luck and fortuitous gusts of wind that seem to be forever coming out of nowhere) nothing could make me swallow the image of a severely injured, exhausted and frightened 14 year old boy defeating an experienced thug for hire in a one-on-one battle. And worst of all, the big, bad villain is presumed dead at the end. Presumed. And we all know what that means \u2013 sequel. ...more \u201cA monkey glances up and sees a banana, and that's as far as he looks. A visionary looks up and sees the moon.\u201d \u2015 Eoin Colfer, Airman -> \"An average human sees a book as pages and ink. An avid reader looks up for an adventure and knowledge\" - Numey Airman by Eoin Colfer, about a crisp-sarcastic-determined-soft.from.heart-knighted-flyer aka Conor Broekhart ((Will write later, soon)) My 'soon' never comes :/ Even after my tomorrow goes, my soon never comes, no idea why! Nopeatempionen,hauska,tapahtumarikas ja kaikin puolin mahtava kirja! Minulle tuli t\u00e4st\u00e4 kovasti mieleen monte criston kreivi elokuva, jonka katsoin joskus lapsena. T\u00e4m\u00e4 kirja oli kuitenkin paljon enemm\u00e4n minun mieleeni kuin kyseinen elokuva :D. I LOVED THIS BOOK. It's the kind of story that I could read over and over and over again and never get tired of. Review to come soon. I couldn't get through Artemis Fowl. I liked Half-Moon Investigations ok. THIS story I really enjoyed. Political intrigue and adventure. I cared about the characters. Over all a great read. I liked this. I wanted to scream at Conor near the end. But I liked it a lot more than AF *SPOILER ALERT Connor is one lucky kid because, 63% percent of all prison escapees were captured within 24 hours, and 97% of all prison escapees were captured which only makes 3 out of 100 escapes successful. In the book Airman by Eoin Colfer a kid, Connor who designs his escape for weeks to get out of a horrible prison, where the food was rotten and his sleeping quarters were bitter and damp. He was put in prison for a crime he did not commit and was only a witness to the crime itself. His escap *SPOILER ALERT Connor is one lucky kid because, 63% percent of all prison escapees were captured within 24 hours, and 97% of all prison escapees were captured which only makes 3 out of 100 escapes successful. In the book Airman by Eoin Colfer a kid, Connor who designs his escape for weeks to get out of a horrible prison, where the food was rotten and his sleeping quarters were bitter and damp. He was put in prison for a crime he did not commit and was only a witness to the crime itself. His escape is treacherous and the plan he came up with needs to be executed perfectly. Connor unravels his plan before the readers\u2019 eyes in an awe-inspiring escape and we get to see if he is the first man to fly with a gas power-driven flying machine. This escape does not only mean he gets his freedom, but makes history. Airman is a book full of anticipation, has descriptive characters, and is an exciting thriller with great suspense. Airman is a book with great suspense is very thrilling book. This book is placed in a fictional place on the shore of water in a castle far away from all other civilization. \u201cOn any other day, the salt sea spray would have doused the fire; but today, in spite of a stiff breeze, the sea was as plat as a polished mirror\u201d (Colfer 33). This is a large kingdom with many people inhabiting the land within the walls. The characters are described in the very first chapter in the book and make it very slow in the beginning. The book later picks up with the assassination of their king and an innocent kid who witnessed the horrid crime. Connor is exiled to life in prison for murder of the king. The book really starts to pick up and the thrill comes when he is in the prison. He has to plan his escape out of the prison and fly all the way to Great Saltee. The problem is no one has ever made a gas power-driven machine that flies. The great suspense is he only has one shot to create this flying device and one shot only, and if he fails he will never see freedom again, if he succeeds he can plea his innocence to the city of Great Saltee. It is so suspenseful seeing everything that could go wrong in his plan, and watching him push through all of those obstacles and succeeding. The characters in Airman are described with immense detail and they are all very interesting. The characters in Airman are all described with immense detail and are all very interesting. For example, Connor is a character who is kind to all, and he risks his life to saving a girl. This kind kid later gets put in jail, and later becomes a problem solver so he can get out of this sticky situation. \u201cConnor struggled to his feet, keeping the flag\u2019s tip low, hiding it from the wind\u201d (Colfer 41). This is the scene where Connor had to use his quick thinking abilities to save Isabella who is the daughter of King Nicholas. Another interesting character in the book in this book is Bonivilian the murderer of King Nicholas. He is a very mischievous man and he is very self centered man. The relationship between Connor and Bonivilian is very strong. They both hate each other because of what Connor saw and Connor hates Bonivilian because he threw him in prison. This strong relationship between the both of them makes the book very interesting to read and always has great excitement to what you read next. For a great book to be a great book it all depends on the characters, and Colfer achieved that and made the book very thrilling. In the book Airman it has great anticipation throughout the whole book. In the book Airman the plot and characters always keep you anticipating what is going to happen next. The plot always kept me thinking on what was going to happen next, it always kept me thinking on what was going to happen next. Without the great characters that you can relate to it would not keep you thinking on what would happen next and the outcomes of their stressful situations. Some situations in the book are very relatable and you are almost in the book yourself. That is probably one of the biggest reasons I enjoyed this book so much. A very relatable situation is one of Connor and Isabella talking and really being almost joking and serious at the same time. Isabella says \u201cSo you built up your courage and came charging up here to declare your love?\u201d (Colfer 79). It reminds me of myself being a little dorky and trying to be serious but the other person sees it as almost a joke. I felt like I was in the book for most of the time and I just though the author did a great job with that. That is how I know that it is a great book when I always anticipate what is happening next, it just makes the book very thrilling. With the very thrilling and suspenseful plot along with the characters make this a must read book. Many books that I have a good storyline and good characters, but what makes this book better than others is you can relate to all the characters in it. Colfer\u2019s writing was phenomenal and the thrill of all the adventures of Connor is just very exciting and it always kept you anticipating what was going to happen next in the book. Colfer is a great author who really knows how to keep the person reading, and is able to have the reader anticipate and connect easily to the book. ...more Immediately on reading this book, I wasn\u2019t hooked. Swashbuckling action is what it promised and I can certainly agree that it didn't disappoint on that level. However, I concede that I am probably too old for this kind of book which I think is targeted at teenagers. The narrative centres around Conor Brockhart, which is every bit the hero. Young, handsome, gifted and with connections to the royal family. And every hero must have a worthy villain, (of course) and this was found in Hugo Bonvilian - Immediately on reading this book, I wasn\u2019t hooked. Swashbuckling action is what it promised and I can certainly agree that it didn't disappoint on that level. However, I concede that I am probably too old for this kind of book which I think is targeted at teenagers. The narrative centres around Conor Brockhart, which is every bit the hero. Young, handsome, gifted and with connections to the royal family. And every hero must have a worthy villain, (of course) and this was found in Hugo Bonvilian - the name itself giving away how good a villain he was. And I must admit, he was the most enjoyable bit of the tale for me. He had an arrogance that is only found in narratives, with an English air that was aloof, independent and cocky. This smug know-it-all commanded the allegiance of lesser men who were cowed by his violent acts. He had plans to rule the kingdom (of course) under a puppet queen whose father was dispatched of (as you do) so that he could rule where his family failed. Kind of like the steward with ideas above his station. And he would have gotten away with it too, if it wasn\u2019t for those meddling little kids! (Conor and his child queen Isabella.) My second favourite character was Wynter with a Y\u2026 (very predictable) a character that was the opposite of the cold of winter; very warm and friendly towards our hero when he needed it most. He was blind and, of course, played the piano like a concert pianist. And he could write full compositions within his mind, cast them to paper (or a wet prison wall) and they're brilliant. Worthy of lofty halls with royalty in the audience. The blind concert pianist with extraordinary talents of hearing the impossible, because of course, with one sense gone, another is on the verge of a super power (!) This book was cheesy beyond belief. At at times, it was satisfying and made me smile, but other times, caused me to groan and roll my eyes. I did like the idea of the Airman though, (the back pages were certainly educational). There was the history of man\u2019s flying machines at the back of my edition, which was interesting. I learnt about Da Vinci\u2019s sketches that I hadn\u2019t known before, and the author really seemed to have done his research in how an aircraft works. A little too much explaining of stuff I wasn\u2019t interested in. I mean, do I really need to know the intricate mechanics of how his light aircraft worked? I found this book trying in places\u2026 and struggled to stay awake, but I was also reluctantly entertained in other areas. It reminded me of the old Sunday matinees I used to watch when there was nothing else on. I\u2019d enjoy the odd explosion or two, the death defying feats of leaping off tall buildings, crashing into raging seas and diving to the depths of oceans for diamonds. It is all here in this book, without the instant gratification of a film - patience is needed with this one. Teenagers, I think, will enjoy it. Adults, well\u2026 depends on what you want from your books. Old fashioned swashbuckling adventure - yes. Nail biting tension and excitement - not so much although it does try. If you like the language to do something more sophisticated than just tell a straightforward narrative, I\u2019d look further afield. And because of this, I give it 2 stars out of five. ...more \"Al estilo de historias como Los tres mosqueteros, El conde de Montecristo o Viaje al centro de la tierra, Airman es una novela de aventuras a la m\u00e1s pura usanza. </p><p>Eoin Colfer nos sit\u00faa en las Islas Saltee, en la costa irlandesa en torno a 1890, donde nos presenta a Conor, un joven cuyo sue\u00f1o es surcar el cielo. Desde bien peque\u00f1o, y tras demostrar su coraje salvando a la princesa Isabella de una muerte segura, el dicharachero espadach\u00edn y cient\u00edfico Victor Vigly le acoge como \"Al estilo de historias como Los tres mosqueteros, El conde de Montecristo o Viaje al centro de la tierra, Airman es una novela de aventuras a la m\u00e1s pura usanza. </p><p>Eoin Colfer nos sit\u00faa en las Islas Saltee, en la costa irlandesa en torno a 1890, donde nos presenta a Conor, un joven cuyo sue\u00f1o es surcar el cielo. Desde bien peque\u00f1o, y tras demostrar su coraje salvando a la princesa Isabella de una muerte segura, el dicharachero espadach\u00edn y cient\u00edfico Victor Vigly le acoge como su pupilo para convertirlo en un cient\u00edfico digno de la corte del rey Nicholas Trudeau. Hasta entonces, Conor s\u00f3lo ha conocido la cara hermosa de la vida: es feliz, est\u00e1 rodeado de gente que le quiere, pasa el tiempo investigando e inventando nuevos artilugios para poder volar\u2026 pero un d\u00eda, cae en una oscura trampa y termina en los calabozos de la terrible prisi\u00f3n de Little Saltee, de la que tendr\u00e1 que conseguir escapar, limpiar su nombre y hacerle pagar a los verdaderos culpables la sangre derramada antes de que sea demasiado tarde. </p><p>Colfer, conocido por su saga fant\u00e1stica de Artemis Fowl, recrea un siglo XIX con todo lujo de detalles que el lector es capaz de ver, m\u00e1s que de imaginar. La ambientaci\u00f3n, las descripciones de los lugares, de la ropa, de las costumbres y de los artilugios est\u00e1n tratados con el m\u00e1ximo cuidado y con el toque de humor que tanto caracteriza a este escritor. Los detalles relacionados con la materia f\u00edsica de los artilugios, no se hacen pesados o aburridos, porque est\u00e1n tan entretejidos con la trama principal que ser\u00eda imposible imaginar la historia sin ellos.</p><p>=> Sigue leyendo la rese\u00f1a en http://www.eltemplodelasmilpuertas.com \" ...more The main character in this book is a boy named Conor Broekhart. It is set mostly in Ireland in the 1800s, and people are just beginning aeronautics. The main conflict is that the evil Marshall Bonvolain tricks everyone, creating a huge mess in which many different people have been tricked into thinking many false things. One thing that I liked was the character of Linus Wynter, who had no eyes, because they had been slashed out, and befriended Conor Broekhart when Conor first arrived at the priso The main character in this book is a boy named Conor Broekhart. It is set mostly in Ireland in the 1800s, and people are just beginning aeronautics. The main conflict is that the evil Marshall Bonvolain tricks everyone, creating a huge mess in which many different people have been tricked into thinking many false things. One thing that I liked was the character of Linus Wynter, who had no eyes, because they had been slashed out, and befriended Conor Broekhart when Conor first arrived at the prison. Another thing that I liked was how the book made me think of how far we have come in aeronautics, and what it must have been like back then, with a lot less knowledge of airplanes and flying machines. I also liked how the author included countless small climaxes throughout the entire book, which kept it very interesting. Also that fact the Linus had adapted to life without sight so well that it was like almost nothing had ever happened, and that when he was in his cell, he had scratched music into the mud on the walls and ceiling, not knowing that underneath was fluorescent coral that had kept his music preserved, and that Conor had found that out and kept his aeronautic sketches drawn in the coral as well. Something that I didn't like was that Victor, Conor's close friend and mentor, was murdered along with the king, by Marshall Bonvolain. Another thing that I didn't like was that there was a time lapse of about two years that was pretty much skipped, and I would have liked if it would have explained those years a little more. I would recommend this book to any advanced 3rd or 4th grader or up who likes adventure, some suspense, and even a little mystery. ...more 'Airman', de Eoin Colfer, constituye todo un homenaje a los folletines decimon\u00f3nicos de aventuras, sobre todo a un autor, Alejandro Dumas, y una novela, 'El conde de Montecristo', con alg\u00fan ligero toque de 'El hombre de la m\u00e1scara de hierro'. La historia trascurre a finales del siglo XIX, en las Islas Saltee (que constituyen un reino en s\u00ed mismas), frente a las costas de Irlanda, compuestas de dos islas, Great Saltee, donde residen los habitantes de este principado, y Little Saltee, donde est\u00e1 su 'Airman', de Eoin Colfer, constituye todo un homenaje a los folletines decimon\u00f3nicos de aventuras, sobre todo a un autor, Alejandro Dumas, y una novela, 'El conde de Montecristo', con alg\u00fan ligero toque de 'El hombre de la m\u00e1scara de hierro'. La historia trascurre a finales del siglo XIX, en las Islas Saltee (que constituyen un reino en s\u00ed mismas), frente a las costas de Irlanda, compuestas de dos islas, Great Saltee, donde residen los habitantes de este principado, y Little Saltee, donde est\u00e1 su sustento, las minas de diamantes; al mismo tiempo, Little Saltee sirve de c\u00e1rcel, y son los presidiarios quienes sacan los diamantes. El protagonista es Conor Broekhart, cuyo destino viene marcado desde su mismo nacimiento, a bordo de un globo aerost\u00e1tico. La vida en Great Saltee transcurre tranquilamente, con Conor y la princesa Isabella creciendo juntos, y estudiando junto a Vigny, un enamorado de los aparatos a\u00e9reos, y con el rey Nicholas llevando a cabo una serie de reformas en todo el reino, sobre todo en la prisi\u00f3n. Pero la vida de Conor dar\u00e1 un vuelco cuando Bonvilain, uno de los hombres del rey con grandes ansias de poder, lo implique en sus planes de hacerse con el reino. Sus problemas no har\u00e1n m\u00e1s que empezar, y lo \u00fanico que le har\u00e1 seguir adelante ser\u00e1n sus ansias de venganza... Como se puede apreciar, muy del Edmundo Dant\u00e9s de 'El conde de Montecristo'. La novela se lee de un tir\u00f3n, ya que las aventuras se suceden constantemente, siempre est\u00e1n sucediendo cosas. Colfer es un escritor correcto, que ha escrito una historia sin pretensiones, con alg\u00fan toque steampunk, cuya mayor ambici\u00f3n es hacer pasar un buen rato al lector, algo que logra con creces. ...more Airman is a historical novel by The Legend Eoin Colfer and is his first attempt at a historical novel. And by God, he did a really good job. Again I had decided to read this book because it is by Colfer, one of my favorite Authors and wanted to any other book than Artemis Fowl which was written by him. My favorite character is Conor Broekhart, who is the hero of the novel. I like him for his courage and intelligence. Even though all of his family and lover had shown hate to him on a misunderstand Airman is a historical novel by The Legend Eoin Colfer and is his first attempt at a historical novel. And by God, he did a really good job. Again I had decided to read this book because it is by Colfer, one of my favorite Authors and wanted to any other book than Artemis Fowl which was written by him. My favorite character is Conor Broekhart, who is the hero of the novel. I like him for his courage and intelligence. Even though all of his family and lover had shown hate to him on a misunderstanding of him murdering the king. He is sent into the The Little Saltee prison when he is 14 by the actual murderer Marshall Bonvilain. But Conor doesn't give up and fights the goons who was sent by Bonvilain to kill him. But instead Conor becomes the ring leader using his negotiation skills. At last Conor fulfills his teacher's and his life long dream - to fly. He constructs a model glider and escapes dramatically from his prison and kills Bonvilain. An interesting quote would be \u201cA monkey glances up and sees a banana, and that's as far as he looks. A visionary looks up and sees the moon.\u201d This is a really inspirational quote. Colfer tells us to look for the stars and leave your comfort-zone instead of being happy with you can achieve using the minimum effort. This is what differentiates us from the visionaries. I learnt from this book to never give and rise up even if life throws you down. Always have hope and try your level best to achieve your goal and never stop following your dream. Even if you are in a prison which has only rocks and tears as resources. I really love this book and can easily be in my top 3 favorite books. As always Colfer the Great. ...more This is an amazing story about a king, a princess, a teacher who thinks highly of himself, and a young boy born in the clouds with a dream of flight. One day there is a fire in the castle because the princess left some of her dad's chemicals open. Conor, the boy, had made a kite fit for humans to get them both out of there. Once that happens the king comes to him to inform him he will become Sir Conor for saving the king's daughter. The king gets him an amazing teacher that helps him with his lo This is an amazing story about a king, a princess, a teacher who thinks highly of himself, and a young boy born in the clouds with a dream of flight. One day there is a fire in the castle because the princess left some of her dad's chemicals open. Conor, the boy, had made a kite fit for humans to get them both out of there. Once that happens the king comes to him to inform him he will become Sir Conor for saving the king's daughter. The king gets him an amazing teacher that helps him with his love of flight. His teacher, victor, and he try many ways to create some kind of machine to fly but all the outcomes are impossible. This is because they want to make a machine with metal, which takes a lot of weight on the air. 5 years after they have been trying and came up with zilch. Then one day he gets arrested for treason to his country. He is stuck in there for years devising plans to get out some way or somehow. H has drawn plans for a flying machine all over the walls and has made so many plans to escape with them. One day he came up with the nerve to actual use those plans to fly out of that place. I like it because it involved a boy with a loved for crafting, engineering, and finding out how to make things better. This is just like me and this kind of made me want to read this story a whole lot more than I did before. Also it's a fictional and adventurous story, which is like putting two of my favorite types of stories. So if you are a person with a love for adventurous books and the trill of exploring (and for all those engineers out there) this is the book for you. ...more Eoin Colferin \"Siipimies\" (WSOY, 2008) on steampunkista ammentava vaihtoehtohistoriallinen romaani 1800-luvun loppupuolelta. Tapahtumapaikkana toimivat Irlannin rannikon vieress\u00e4 todellisuudessakin sijaitsevat Saltee-saaret, joille muinoin perustettua kuningaskuntaa uhkaa vaara vallanhimoisen marsalkka Bonvillainin toimesta. Salaliittolaiset murhaavat hyv\u00e4n kuninkaan ja uudenaikaisesta lentolaitteesta haaveilevan ranskalaisen keksij\u00e4n, ja sen seurauksena verity\u00f6t\u00e4 todistanut nuori Conor Brockhar Eoin Colferin \"Siipimies\" (WSOY, 2008) on steampunkista ammentava vaihtoehtohistoriallinen romaani 1800-luvun loppupuolelta. Tapahtumapaikkana toimivat Irlannin rannikon vieress\u00e4 todellisuudessakin sijaitsevat Saltee-saaret, joille muinoin perustettua kuningaskuntaa uhkaa vaara vallanhimoisen marsalkka Bonvillainin toimesta. Salaliittolaiset murhaavat hyv\u00e4n kuninkaan ja uudenaikaisesta lentolaitteesta haaveilevan ranskalaisen keksij\u00e4n, ja sen seurauksena verity\u00f6t\u00e4 todistanut nuori Conor Brockhart temmataan osaksi hurjaa tapahtumaketjua, jonka seurauksena h\u00e4n p\u00e4\u00e4tyy pahamaineiselle vankilasaarelle, jossa h\u00e4nt\u00e4 pit\u00e4\u00e4 elossa vain unelma lent\u00e4misest\u00e4... \"Siipimiehess\u00e4\" esitelt\u00e4v\u00e4 maailma on kiinnostava, ja erityisen paljon pidin sivuhahmoista, joista pari katoaa tosin n\u00e4ytt\u00e4m\u00f6lt\u00e4 turhan aikaisin. Kirjassa on mukana tietty\u00e4 Jules Vernen henke\u00e4, ja luulen ett\u00e4 olisin pit\u00e4nyt kirjasta viel\u00e4 enemm\u00e4n, mik\u00e4li olisin saanut lukea sen lapsena. Colfer maalailee paikoitellen melko synk\u00e4ll\u00e4 ja ahdistavalla pensselill\u00e4, ja v\u00e4kivaltaakin esiintyy, joskin sen verran hillityss\u00e4 m\u00e4\u00e4rin, ett\u00e4 kirjaa voi hyv\u00e4ll\u00e4 syyll\u00e4 pit\u00e4\u00e4 nuortenkirjallisuutena. Sivum\u00e4\u00e4r\u00e4\u00e4 olisi voinut hieman karsia, sill\u00e4 paikoitellen kirjassa esiintyy turhaa toistoa kun tapahtumia k\u00e4yd\u00e4\u00e4n l\u00e4pi useammasta kuin yhdest\u00e4 n\u00e4k\u00f6kulmasta. Nyt kirja on l\u00e4hes viisisataa sivua pitk\u00e4, mik\u00e4 saattaa karsia pois osan potentiaalisesta lukijakunnasta, mutta kyll\u00e4 romaania silti kelpaa vinkkailla viitosille, kuutosille ja seiskoille. Arvosanaksi vahva kolme t\u00e4hte\u00e4, eik\u00e4 nelj\u00e4k\u00e4\u00e4n olisi mahdottomuus. ...more Truly, this summary doesn't give the book justice. You read it and it's like, \"Oh sure, sounds fine.\" But the book contains so much more. This takes a young boy and after being thrown into jail is transformed into a hardy, cunning young man with a mind for inventions and flying. Eoin Colfer once more gives us his brilliance for winding a web of the plot, making you think one thing only to discover you were completely wrong; setting you on the edge of your seat when you're practically begging for Truly, this summary doesn't give the book justice. You read it and it's like, \"Oh sure, sounds fine.\" But the book contains so much more. This takes a young boy and after being thrown into jail is transformed into a hardy, cunning young man with a mind for inventions and flying. Eoin Colfer once more gives us his brilliance for winding a web of the plot, making you think one thing only to discover you were completely wrong; setting you on the edge of your seat when you're practically begging for Conor to bring justice and reestablish the link with his family. It's nerve-wracking, but is one of the best books I've read. It took me a little while to get into it (mostly due to school issues) but one weekend I managed to score some time and I flew through this book--pardon the pun. The pages were just gone as I read. I couldn't wait to get to the end and discover whether or not Conor gets his revenge, if he meets once again with his family, if he gets the girl. Signed with his signature humor, \"Airman\"'s suspense is as light-hearted as it is heavy-hearted. A thrilling ride. Eoin Colfer does it again. Technical Info: * 5/5 for Best Books Ever, Best Cast of Characters, Best Original Idea, Best Plot * Pages - Hardcover, 412 * Hardly any swear words, all of them mild. * No sequel reported. :( * Other books by Eoin Colfer: The \"Artemis Fowl\" series, \"Half Moon Investigations\", \"The Supernaturalist\", \"The Wish List\" ...more This is one HELL of a book. It had everything I loved: a narrative of adventure mingled with some suspense, a loveable protagonist, dark stuff made bearable by the occasional dry wit, and some surprisingly intriguing history of science. Oh, and the gifted narrator possessed a sexy Irish voice. (I can't recommend listening to it on CD enough.) This is an \"interdisciplinary\" book and pulls from several literary genres. It's got some of that steampunk/turn-of-the-century stuff with science and techn This is one HELL of a book. It had everything I loved: a narrative of adventure mingled with some suspense, a loveable protagonist, dark stuff made bearable by the occasional dry wit, and some surprisingly intriguing history of science. Oh, and the gifted narrator possessed a sexy Irish voice. (I can't recommend listening to it on CD enough.) This is an \"interdisciplinary\" book and pulls from several literary genres. It's got some of that steampunk/turn-of-the-century stuff with science and technology going on. Readers of Dumas will see his influence all over it, what with nasty stone prisons, constant concerns about honor, villainous despots out to destroy good monarchs, and all. It's also a classic white knight v. dark night epic. Add in ye olde chivalric formula and a pinch of the American Western, and you're nearly there. But although Colfer employed several of these literary formulas, I don't think the book quite conformed to any of them in the end, which is what made it so great. Airman is a departure from Colfer's other books; I'm hoping it's his signal that he's interested in writing for an adult audience. It's a dark little thing, and may not be suitable for the under-12 set. ...more", "Title": "Airman"},
