{"Comments": "I love <---A>Sophie Kinsella</---A>'s writing style so much! Her books are like candy and I can't get enough! I love how Rebecca isn't a totally likable character; she has her flaws but she always learns from her mistakes in the end and becomes stronger. I was obsessed with the first half of the book as I'm totally invested in Luke and Becky's relationship, but the wedding drama kind of dragged on a bit too long for me. Still really liked this book, though, and I will be reading the fourth very soon! I love Kinsella's books,<---M> and I loove Becky</---M>, but this one was my least favorite. The way she had to drag on the wedding decision totally wore out my patience. What sucked was that THAT was basically the main part of the story. At some point, I was so irritated at her that I wasn't really concentrating on what I was reading because I wanted to hurry up and get to the conclusion. And it's too silly how Luke was so unaware of the chaotic wedding planning, don't you think? Almost pretentious. I mean, I love Kinsella's books, and I loove Becky, but this one was my least favorite. The way she had to drag on the wedding decision totally wore out my patience. What sucked was that THAT was basically the main part of the story. At some point, I was so irritated at her that I wasn't really concentrating on what I was reading because I wanted to hurry up and get to the conclusion. And it's too silly how Luke was so unaware of the chaotic wedding planning, don't you think? Almost pretentious. I mean, my boyfriend is totally successful/super busy and I may be a ditz.. but he would know if I'm planning two weddings. But yet it was definitely entertaining, and it did make me want a spectacular wedding at Plaza.<---F> Wouldn't anyone? </---F>...more This third book in the series was just as funny and in some ways more hilarious than the first book. This book has Becky and Luke moving forward in their relationship. The problems begin when Becky can't say no, to totally different plans for the same event. The cast of characters is fun and full bodied. They have their own personalities which fill this book with a lot of conflict and humor. Well written and fun, I was glad I read this book. Well, I'm definitely glad Becky is off on her round the world honeymoon. I was so stressed by the time this book was over, I thought it would never end! Not as funny as the first two, there was just too much tension. I can't say I enjoyed this one a whole lot. I'm continuously surprised at how much I enjoy these books. For one, they're chick-lit, which I don't read much of and generally find insipid and insulting. They're about a woman who is obsessed with shopping, something we really don't have in common. Whenever she buys something (<---B>which is often, and usually something she really doesn't need</---B>), I cringe. Her debts make me anxious. Her silly lies and cover-ups give me acid burn. The situations she gets herself into, the many times she lets people s I'm continuously surprised at how much I enjoy these books. For one, they're chick-lit, which I don't read much of and generally find insipid and insulting. They're about a woman who is obsessed with shopping, something we really don't have in common. Whenever she buys something (which is often, and usually something she really doesn't need), I cringe. Her debts make me anxious. Her silly lies and cover-ups give me acid burn. The situations she gets herself into, the many times she lets people steamroll her, frustrate me. And yet, and yet... <---C>Becky Bloomwood</---C> is an engaging character, perhaps because of her flaws. She's oddly vulnerable, and genuinely nice. She's way more polite than I am, the way she always finds something nice to say to people so as not to hurt their feelings instead of being brutally honest - I admire her for that, since it's a skill I've never been good at. The downside is that it puts her in situations she can't politely get out of. In this case, it's two weddings. Now engaged to Luke, both her mother and Luke's mother are planning weddings - for the same day, in different countries. Becky can't seem to say no to either woman; one because it would break her heart, the other because she'd just be ignored. The wedding Luke's mother, Elinor, is planning is a huge, hugely expensive and over-the-top affair at the Plaza in New York. Everyone's talking about it. The wedding planner, Robyn, is an unstoppable force, and even though Elinor is paying, Becky learns that to pull out she'd have to pay Robyn $100,000. On top of that, when she finally summons the courage to tell Luke her problem, he has a mid-life crisis over his mother and career and Becky is left to figure out a miracle. How to make Luke better, and go through two weddings without anyone realising another wedding ever existed? I didn't think Becky would be able to solve this one, I really didn't. Well, I learnt to have more faith in her. She does that, you know. Makes things an even bigger mess than they ever needed to be, and then at the last minute, finds a way to fix it all. These books power along with barely a moment to catch your breath; along the way there's laughter and some subtle digs - in this case, at the wedding industry. It also pokes fun at the daggy home wedding, and it's this irreverent British humour that appeals to me. I'm much more comfortable with it than the American kind, to be honest. I understood it. The Becky Bloomwood novels are similar to Bridget Jones' Diary , which I loved - book and movie. They both have the same flaw though: the male love interest is too much a side-dish. I believe Becky and Luke love each other, and in this book especially we get to understand Luke better. But it seems sometimes like he doesn't really know Becky. At times he clearly knows her very well and reads behind her silly assertions, and I like that he gets more amused than pissed off by her frivolous spending habits. But it bothered me that he was so absent . I don't care for men who leave the planning of their own wedding entirely in the hands of the bride - it's inconsiderate, and a man who takes no interest in the wedding, no matter how small, seems like a man disinterested in being married. BUT, I believe Luke wanted to marry Becky, and I understood that he has issues with his mother that took over. So I'm willing to forgive. I just don't like that Becky couldn't talk to him, didn't want to burden him with her own problems, and had no one to turn to. Communication is so important in a relationship, and I hated all her cover-ups and denials. Sometimes I just want to shake her! ...more One of the best chick-lit series I've read! Becky Bloomwood is a delight and adorable! She has her issues, of course, but somehow you can't help loving her! Part of what makes these books so funny and cute is the ability Becky has to justify every purchase she makes. And her shopaholic problems aside, she's a sweet, kind and big-hearted person. My sister and I were actually able to go to an author talk with Sophie Kinsella, and she's just as adorable as Becky! So far there are 5 books in the seri One of the best chick-lit series I've read! Becky Bloomwood is a delight and adorable! She has her issues, of course, but somehow you can't help loving her! Part of what makes these books so funny and cute is the ability Becky has to justify every purchase she makes. And her shopaholic problems aside, she's a sweet, kind and big-hearted person. My sister and I were actually able to go to an author talk with Sophie Kinsella, and she's just as adorable as Becky! So far there are 5 books in the series (Confessions of a Shopaholic is the first), and all are worth the read. My favorites are books 1, 4 and 5, but 2 and 3 are really important and also really good! Again, without giving lots away I can tell you little more about this book than the title already does. But, just imagine the delights of a shopaholic with an excuse to purchase all things wedding-related.:) Happy reading! Winner of Annie's Awards 2005: \"Favorite Comedy\" - 2nd place ...more Weer een leuk verhaal over Becky en Luke. Hoewel ik het midden wat langdradig vond, zit het verhaal wel leuk in elkaar. Grappig hoe alles uiteindelijk toch op z'n pootjes terecht komt. En wat ben ik benieuwd naar deel 4; in dit deel wordt onthuld waar deel 4 over gaat en dit heeft mij erg nieuwsgierig gemaakt! These books are seriously addicting. I know the main complaint people have about these books is how annoying Bex can be, but I don't mind her. She has her moments where I would like to smack some sense into her, but overall I like her funny, awkward moments. Bex is basically running around like a chicken with her head cut off throughout this whole book. She has promised both her mother and her mother-in-law that they could plan her wedding, and nobody knows...Not even Luke. Also, both weddings a These books are seriously addicting. I know the main complaint people have about these books is how annoying Bex can be, but I don't mind her. She has her moments where I would like to smack some sense into her, but overall I like her funny, awkward moments. Bex is basically running around like a chicken with her head cut off throughout this whole book. She has promised both her mother and her mother-in-law that they could plan her wedding, and nobody knows...Not even Luke. Also, both weddings are in separate countries. The story had Kinsella's usual humor littered throughout. I will admit she is the queen of laugh out loud humor. She can make you cringe and laugh at the embarrassing situations her heroines get into. Dragging out the decision about where to have the wedding was the only bad part. After a while it got old, and I just started skimming just to see how it would end. ...more I really wanted to like this book - I was planning my own wedding at the time and thought this would be an easy, relatable read - nope. This book was by far my least favorite in the series. I thought Becky came off too strong and annoying in the Manhattan book, but apparently she had a lot more \"character\" in her. In this book, Becky and Luke are planning their wedding. Becky accepts Luke's icy mother's offer to throw them a top-notch New York wedding and has all the glitz and glamour Becky dream I really wanted to like this book - I was planning my own wedding at the time and thought this would be an easy, relatable read - nope. This book was by far my least favorite in the series. I thought Becky came off too strong and annoying in the Manhattan book, but apparently she had a lot more \"character\" in her. In this book, Becky and Luke are planning their wedding. Becky accepts Luke's icy mother's offer to throw them a top-notch New York wedding and has all the glitz and glamour Becky dreams about. Well, several days later she also accepts her mom's invitation to have an English wedding in her parents backyard. The book is about Becky figuring out which wedding she wants to have because she doesn't want to hurt feelings. Becky is just so freaking irresponsible in this book, it is really hard to read. She made me mad in this book page after page and I have no plans in reading this book again. ...more I've decided that, since I'm pretty preoccupied with wedding stuff as it is, what could be more fun that going through the adventure with an old friend? Hence, some of my joys and stresses will be meshed with Becky's--and I'm grateful for the companionship! :-) 3.5 stars Becky Bloomwood is about to get married! Only there is one BIG dilemma. Where is she going to have her wedding? In her hometown Oxshott with family and friends, planned by her loving mother or in Manhattan at the extravagant Plaza Hotel organised by Luke's mother Elinor? Becky's indecisiveness and lies return in this installment of the Shopaholic series. I was quite frustrated by her actions throughout the book as she ran away from her problems and escaped by lying. I didn't grow to hat 3.5 stars Becky Bloomwood is about to get married! Only there is one BIG dilemma. Where is she going to have her wedding? In her hometown Oxshott with family and friends, planned by her loving mother or in Manhattan at the extravagant Plaza Hotel organised by Luke's mother Elinor? Becky's indecisiveness and lies return in this installment of the Shopaholic series. I was quite frustrated by her actions throughout the book as she ran away from her problems and escaped by lying. I didn't grow to hate her but I just really wished she learnt a lesson from her past experiences!! The book was prolonged quite a bit as Becky makes (failed) attempts to turn down a wedding and go ahead with the other arrangement all whilst keeping Luke in the dark on the final decision. This was fortunately made up for by the time with the secondary characters such as Danny her next door neighbour, her Barney's workmates and clients, and Michael. I could really see how Becky really cared about these people even though her own wedding plans were a mess! The way her wedding eventuated was a comical surprise. I just hope in one of the future books, Rebecca would solve her problems in a better way. It always seems to me that lucky things happen so that Rebecca doesn't actually have to confront her dilemma head on. Overall, an entertaining read but be prepared for some silliness from Becky. ...more Het heeft weer even geduurd voor ik dit boek uit had maar het was weer een ouderwets goede. Weer heerlijk gelachen om de onhandigheid van Becky en de situaties waar ze zich in werkt. Nu even een pauze in de shopaholic serie tijdens de resterende tijd van m'n vakantie en daarna weer vrolijk verder! Het blijft een leuke serie om te lezen. Rebecca Bloomwood is probably the only character I forgive being an absolute pain in the ... She makes me furious and eye-rolling, I want to shout at her and still I find myself enjoying the books. I loved all the wedding talk. Must the Disney princess inside me still waiting for her big day. Becky Bloomwood's life has been running fairly smoothly recently, she is a personal shopper at Barney's, she and boyfriend Luke are living together and they've even opened a joint bank account. At best friend Suze's wedding Luke proposes and suddenly Becky's life has been flung upside down. Her mum wants her to get married in Oxshott whereas Luke's mother Elinor wants her to get married in New York - at the Plaza no less! As both women begin to plan their respective weddings Becky knows that eve Becky Bloomwood's life has been running fairly smoothly recently, she is a personal shopper at Barney's, she and boyfriend Luke are living together and they've even opened a joint bank account. At best friend Suze's wedding Luke proposes and suddenly Becky's life has been flung upside down. Her mum wants her to get married in Oxshott whereas Luke's mother Elinor wants her to get married in New York - at the Plaza no less! As both women begin to plan their respective weddings Becky knows that eventually, sooner rather than later, she will have to make a decision and cancel one of her weddings. But once she gets around to dress shopping and cake tasting, the thought of cancelling one of her weddings becomes near impossible and Becky finds herself in trouble yet again. With Mini Shopaholic less than a month away I've decided to re-read the entire Shopaholic series in preparation for the new book. I think it's the first time I've re-read all of the books back-to-back and it's so exciting picking out the details I remember and learning details I've forgotten particularly with the books I've only read once. Because I didn't get much reading done whilst I was in England, I only got the chance to re-read Shopaholic Ties The Knot once I was on the plane back to Tenerife. Four hours later and I had finished the book! Shopaholic Ties The Knot is the third Shopaholic book and follows Confessions of a Shopaholic and Shopaholic Abroad. I'd already read the first two books a couple of times but if I remember correctly, this is only the second time I've gotten the chance to read Shopaholic Ties The Knot. Unlike the previous two books, Shopaholic Ties The Knot isn't focused solely on shopping. There's no debt in sight, and whilst Becky does still shop (come on, it's Becky Bloomwood), it isn't as hectic or as frenetic as in the first two books. Shopaholic Ties The Knot focuses firmly on Becky and Luke's wedding and I liked the fact that it was different to the first two books. Becky has dealt with a lot of things throughout the first two books but having to pick between two weddings is certainly the most difficult. I mean, either disappoint your mother who wants you to wear her wedding dress or give up a Plaza wedding. I've never been to the Plaza but I can imagine how beautiful it is and I'm well aware how much people would give to marry there. That is Becky's dilemma and although her flakiness and lack of commitment to one wedding was mildly irritating, it was an understandable dilemma. How it all sorts itself out is one of my favourite Shopaholic scenes ever, it was a stunning twist and it's the one scene that always sticks in my mind. As ever, the characters are just as fantastic. Becky does seem to grow up a bit more as the books progress but her sunny, sparkly nature remains throughout. I have three more books to review and I'm running out of ways to say I love Becky Bloomwood. Honestly, I feel as if I'm beginning to sound like a broken record (I do apologise for that). I would also like to say, for the record, that I love Luke Brandon too. I've loved him since book one and if he weren't Becky Bloomwood's... No, I joke, I love Becky and Luke and if Kinsella ever broke them up I would cry. We get to know Luke so much more during Shopaholic Ties The Knot and it seems as if he has some unresolved issues, particularly where his mother Elinor is concerned (whom I don't like, for the record). It's refreshing to see Luke open up a bit more and I definitely felt as if I got to know him more. Suze, Becky's best friend is still around and Becky's parents are hilarious as ever (Becky's mum in particular is funny and made me laugh out loud). We also meet Danny, a new friend Becky makes in New York. Again, like the previous two, the book is written in a chatty, recognisable way and I was surprised to find that I had managed to finish it in under four hours (even the lady on the plane mentioned how quick I read the book). I can't say that I have a favourite Shopaholic as I love them all for different reasons but they do keep getting better and better and it was nice to see Becky when she's not completely consumed by shopping (please note that I did say \"not completely consumed\"). If you've read the other books in the series you really ought to pick this one up and if you haven't yet read any of the books, why haven't you? The series is great and Shopaholic Ties The Knot is a worthy addition! ...more Life has been good for Becky Bloomwood: She\u2019s become the best personal shopper at Barneys, she and her successful entrepreneurial boyfriend, Luke, are living happily in Manhattan\u2019s West Village, and her new next-door neighbor is a fashion designer! But with her best friend, Suze, engaged, how can Becky fail to notice that her own ring finger is bare? Not that she\u2019s been thinking of marriage (or diamonds) or anything . . . Then Luke proposes! Ugh, why can't Becky and I be friends in real life? An Life has been good for Becky Bloomwood: She\u2019s become the best personal shopper at Barneys, she and her successful entrepreneurial boyfriend, Luke, are living happily in Manhattan\u2019s West Village, and her new next-door neighbor is a fashion designer! But with her best friend, Suze, engaged, how can Becky fail to notice that her own ring finger is bare? Not that she\u2019s been thinking of marriage (or diamonds) or anything . . . Then Luke proposes! Ugh, why can't Becky and I be friends in real life? And damn, life has been very good for her. Living in West Village is a DREAM of mine and she has a dream job and has a successful boyfriend/fiance AND has a friend who is a designer... can I please be her? Yes, Luke's mom can be a bitch but she's a rich bitch so it's allowed... especially when she is trying to throw you a wedding that is to top all weddings. Right now in my life I am in engagement/wedding fantasy because I actually have a boyfriend I like haha so I really enjoyed this book. Typical Becky Bloomwood messes that make you laugh. ...more Becky is getting married and ready to get settled! But where? While she\u2019s enjoying life as a Personal Shopper at Barney\u2019s, which I swear is every shopaholic\u2019s dream, her family from England wanted her to stay in the countryside with her husband. But she couldn\u2019t stay away from the glitz and glamour of Manhattan, could she? If you\u2019re Becky Bloomwood, you would be at your wits end, and might just end up in a mental. While I enjoyed the first two books in the series, this one kinda made me back off Becky is getting married and ready to get settled! But where? While she\u2019s enjoying life as a Personal Shopper at Barney\u2019s, which I swear is every shopaholic\u2019s dream, her family from England wanted her to stay in the countryside with her husband. But she couldn\u2019t stay away from the glitz and glamour of Manhattan, could she? If you\u2019re Becky Bloomwood, you would be at your wits end, and might just end up in a mental. While I enjoyed the first two books in the series, this one kinda made me back off a little from Becky\u2019s spending ways. I swear this lady\u2019s got real money issues. But with friends like Suze and Tarquin to talk to her, I guess I could give her the benefit of the doubt. There might still be chance for Becky after all. I enjoyed reading this third book and would still want to see what happens next when she\u2019s finally settled. I\u2019m sure it would be a riot. ...more Becky seems less lying in this book. she is just not telling full truth. umm...that's fun. gosh! I am so in love with this series. 3.5 stars I had been reading a lot of heavy, emotional books lately, so I was in dire need of something simple and funny. This book was strongly recommended to me by a friend because I asked for a light book. I had never read any of the shopaholic books but I was curious so I decided to give it a shot. I have to admit, I was a bit apprehensive because it is a Chick-Lit. However, since the Shopaholic books are so popular, I decided give it a shot with an open mind. When I first started the book, I was please I had been reading a lot of heavy, emotional books lately, so I was in dire need of something simple and funny. This book was strongly recommended to me by a friend because I asked for a light book. I had never read any of the shopaholic books but I was curious so I decided to give it a shot. I have to admit, I was a bit apprehensive because it is a Chick-Lit. However, since the Shopaholic books are so popular, I decided give it a shot with an open mind. When I first started the book, I was pleasently surprised. The author is extremely witty and there's a certain charm to her characters. However, after about 80 or so pages, I could not get myself to like the main character. In all honesty, I really hope no one in the real life is like her. He lack of being able to make any sort of decision was beyond frustrating! A good chunk of the book is based on where she's going to get married. She's being pulled 1 way by her mother in law and another way by her mom that lives in England. Everytime she makes a decision something happens to alter her choice. It was beyond frustrating and this is one of the main reasons why I can't give it more stars... and I actually feel like maybe I should give it 2 1/2 stars (but that's not an option) When you don't like the main character, it becomes really hard to like the book. That being said, I still gave it 3 stars because the author still managed to keep me somewhat interested. I am not a very fast reader (it usually takes me about a month or 2 to finish a novel), but this book only took me 2 weeks because of it's simplicity. Would I ever read this book again? No. Will I read any more Shopaholic books? Definitely not (I can't handle another book about the undecisive, self centered, spoiled brat that is Becky Bloomwood!). However, I would give this author another shot with one of her other books because I feel like this was simply a case of not connecting with the main character. ...more I forgot to even mark this as read. I read it a few days ago, not anything that had an impact on me, just something fun. Something about reading about weddings is just fun. People are happy. Although this one was much more stressful that it needed to be. Becky knows there is a problem and thinks if she ignores them the'll just go away. She was pretty frustrating in this book. (view spoiler) [ Suze and Tarquin's wedding was great! I feel like I should mention the baby, but I don't have anything to I forgot to even mark this as read. I read it a few days ago, not anything that had an impact on me, just something fun. Something about reading about weddings is just fun. People are happy. Although this one was much more stressful that it needed to be. Becky knows there is a problem and thinks if she ignores them the'll just go away. She was pretty frustrating in this book. (view spoiler) [ Suze and Tarquin's wedding was great! I feel like I should mention the baby, but I don't have anything to say. I was a little annoyed how Becky \"solved\" this problem. She just deceived people. She didn't have to own up to anything. (hide spoiler) ] I can not stand Elinor. I know we got a little more of her back story later, but I still don't see the need for her attitude. I didn't understand Luke's attachment and eagerness to defend her. I have no idea where that relationship is headed. I'm glad Luke took of some time from work in this one. Although when he was off, it really wasn't that great. He was so distraught. I'm excited to see what happens after what was said at the end of this. I don't think it's in the next book though. She might mention some things, but I don't think we're going to get the full story. Loving this series so far! ...more At A Glance Genre: Chick Lit Love Triangle/Insta Love?: nope. Cliff Hanger: nope. Rating: 4.5 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 8 Characters: 7 World Building: 7 Flow: 8 Series Congruity: 9 Writing: 8 Ending: 8 Total: 9 In Dept Best Part: More focused on other issues other than her spending. Worst Part: N/A Thoughts Had: Baby Erinie!!!; How is she gonna get out of this?!?; Oh i see what you did there!! Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes! Recommending: yes! Short Review: This was by far my favorite At A Glance Genre: Chick Lit Love Triangle/Insta Love?: nope. Cliff Hanger: nope. Rating: 4.5 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 8 Characters: 7 World Building: 7 Flow: 8 Series Congruity: 9 Writing: 8 Ending: 8 Total: 9 In Dept Best Part: More focused on other issues other than her spending. Worst Part: N/A Thoughts Had: Baby Erinie!!!; How is she gonna get out of this?!?; Oh i see what you did there!! Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes! Recommending: yes! Short Review: This was by far my favorite of this series. This was less focused on her spending habits and more focused on her growing as a character and i loved seeing that. I just loved how this book played out. I didn't see how she was gonna get out of her biggest issue, but I'm so glad it all worked out in the end, and I'm really excited to see how this turns out next! I also need more Baby Ernesto and Suze! I miss them in this book, although Suze was taking charge in this book! I like that side of her :) Review in GIF Form: ...more I had to really think about whether I wanted to give this one a try. I read the first book in the series about six years ago and, more than anything, it stressed me out! But I decided to give this one a try and it actually wasn't nearly as stressful as its predecessor. Becky has a big heart and bad decision making skills. In this book, Becky's live-in boyfriend Luke proposes. The trouble comes when Becky's mother begins planning a wedding in her hometown in England, then Luke's mother swiftly b I had to really think about whether I wanted to give this one a try. I read the first book in the series about six years ago and, more than anything, it stressed me out! But I decided to give this one a try and it actually wasn't nearly as stressful as its predecessor. Becky has a big heart and bad decision making skills. In this book, Becky's live-in boyfriend Luke proposes. The trouble comes when Becky's mother begins planning a wedding in her hometown in England, then Luke's mother swiftly begins planning a grand social event of a wedding at the Plaza in New York for the very same day. Soon Becky is embroiled in a dilemma so big it seems she'll never find a solution and the entire thing will end in disaster. I think the reason I did like this book is because Becky is incredibly likable in it. She's much less selfish than I remember her being and the biggest reasons for her problem in the first place were that she was afraid of hurting anyone she loves. I'm glad I gave it a chance. ...more I'm not a big chick lit fan, but find Sophie Kinsella's work to be a real guilty pleasure-- slight but fun. However, <+++>Shopaholic Ties the Knot</+++> is definitely not her best. In the other Shopaholic books, protagonist Becky Bloomwood, is ditzy and self-indulgent, but basically a fun and sweet girl that you can sort of identify with. In this book, that mostly goes out the window. Here, Becky gets engaged and is torn between having the simple English wedding her mother is planning and the big society w I'm not a big chick lit fan, but find Sophie Kinsella's work to be a real guilty pleasure-- slight but fun. However, <+++>Shopaholic Ties the Knot</+++> is definitely not her best. In the other Shopaholic books, protagonist Becky Bloomwood, is ditzy and self-indulgent, but basically a fun and sweet girl that you can sort of identify with. In this book, that mostly goes out the window. Here, Becky gets engaged and is torn between having the simple English wedding her mother is planning and the big society wedding at The Plaza that her future stepmother desires. Becky's inability to make a decision and be a grown up reaches new heights and gets pretty darn annoying. In the end, Kinsella never does force Becky to get herself together and make a choice. She gets the best of both worlds, guilt free. That's sloppy writing, in my opinion. Becky doesn't really learn anything or become a better person in any way. So why did I need to take this journey with her, then? This book was definitely subpar, even for chick lit. ...more I think this is my favourite of the series so far. Still not that impressed with these books but it's a light easy read and sometimes you need that to escape the daily rutines. Becky and Luke are still living in Manhattan and after Luke proposes (a very romantic way to propose, btw), Becky starts planning her wedding. And as always, being incapable of saying no - she ends up with two weddings, one back home in England and one in Manhattan. Two different dreams that she is unable to choose from. I I think this is my favourite of the series so far. Still not that impressed with these books but it's a light easy read and sometimes you need that to escape the daily rutines. Becky and Luke are still living in Manhattan and after Luke proposes (a very romantic way to propose, btw), Becky starts planning her wedding. And as always, being incapable of saying no - she ends up with two weddings, one back home in England and one in Manhattan. Two different dreams that she is unable to choose from. I liked that it wasn't just about shopping anymore but that the things that make her continue to shop and shop, here makes her suddenly realize wake up with two wedding - and a lot of explaining to do to get out of that. Quite funny. ...more Yesterday, although clear and sunny, came with a chilly biting August wind that the south-eastern part of Australia is known for. I have in my new house, a designated \u2018reading room\u2019 which is a little family room off the kitchen/dining room that has big windows. It has no TV access point so we put our second couch in there, along the windows and I made it my quiet room. The sun pours in there in the afternoon and it\u2019s perfect for curling up and enjoying a book. I finished this book in one afternoo Yesterday, although clear and sunny, came with a chilly biting August wind that the south-eastern part of Australia is known for. I have in my new house, a designated \u2018reading room\u2019 which is a little family room off the kitchen/dining room that has big windows. It has no TV access point so we put our second couch in there, along the windows and I made it my quiet room. The sun pours in there in the afternoon and it\u2019s perfect for curling up and enjoying a book. I finished this book in one afternoon, they\u2019re just that easy to read. As I said in my Library post, this is the first time I\u2019ve read one of these novels as previously I\u2019ve listened to the audiobooks and the woman who reads it is very good. I was happy to discover that my like for them transferred over just as much and I really enjoyed this book. So much so that my fiance, upon wandering into the room totally unnoticed by me, commented several times on the fact that I was laying on the couch giggling to myself. I do love Becky Bloomwood. This novel picks up with Becky and Luke still living in Manhattan, Becky is still working as a personal shopper at Barney\u2019s, although that hasn\u2019t stemmed her passion in shopping for herself. Luke spends some time wondering how their household account keeps getting overdrawn and where their joint statement is \u2013 Becky has hidden it, and then in a last ditch attempt to prevent Luke from finding out she\u2019s been buying shoes and clothes from their household account- spills white out onto it. This could be portrayed as an unhealthy relationship, in that Becky hides her purchases from Luke and attempts to deceive him about the statement, but this book addresses more than once Luke\u2019s tolerance and even his joyful amusement in Becky and it\u2019s pretty obvious he has every idea what she\u2019s doing. Luke, up until this book, is a workaholic \u2013 driven and dedicated to his company, Brandon Communications and it\u2019s clear in this book that he regards Becky as his antithesis and someone who keeps him from taking life too seriously. She reminds him to have fun, and he finds her take on life refreshing and funny. Becky\u2019s former flatmate Suze is marrying her cousin Tarquin (in something I found a fraction icky, but apparently legal) and Becky is the bridesmaid. A misunderstanding leads to her proclaiming that she never wants to get married, well not at at least for 10 years! She\u2019s lying of course, which is just as well, as Luke is quite obviously planning to propose. Becky joyfully accepts and Becky\u2019s mother starts planning the ultimate wedding in Becky\u2019s hometown. The problems begin when they go back to New York and meet with Luke\u2019s mother, the repressed and icy Elinor and hear of her plans. She intends to give them a huge, extravagant wedding, booking the Plaza Hotel and hiring a wedding planner with no expense spared. Becky of course, is totally seduced by the idea of a big and lavish wedding with four hundred guests, a thousand dollar cake, the Philharmonic orchestra, a stunning designer dress instead of her mother\u2019s wedding dress and she finds herself agreeing to both weddings, one on each side of the world which are due to be held on the same day in less than five months. She\u2019s soon in so deep that she can\u2019t bear to back out of the Plaza wedding and risk not only Elinor\u2019s wrath but also being sued, nor can she break her mothers heart. Her mother has been working diligently on the other side of the Atlantic, and when Becky visits home, she finds that the whole house is being done up for the wedding, which just makes her guilt and misery even worse. Luke undergoes an interesting character growth this book. In the first book he\u2019s kind of distant and amused by Becky and although it\u2019s obvious he\u2019s attracted to her, he\u2019s always exactly the same: in control, composed, capable, dynamic. In this book, his drive to impress Elinor, the mother who left him, desert\u2019s him when he realises that she didn\u2019t leave him by force, but by choice. This coupled by a friend of his who has a medical issue, leads to him completely falling apart, questioning life, what it means, why he bothers to work so hard. He is going through a semi mid-life crisis: he stops shaving, stops going to work and starts giving away his money and shoes to random people on the street. This only adds to Becky\u2019s stress level, as not only does she have to figure out how to cancel one of the weddings without being sued or destroying her parents, she also has to \u2018fix\u2019 Luke and get him out of this slump that he\u2019s in. Although the book is a tad over the top, as someone who is planning a wedding (albeit a very relaxed and casual one), it\u2019s easy to see how things can just completely snowball. Everyone wants to take over a wedding, and sometimes it\u2019s very hard to get your voice heard on what you want. Becky is bullied into the Plaza and the wedding at home because she never once sits down (with or without Luke) to think about what she wants her wedding to be and she ends up being swayed on everything because she\u2019s just indecisive and eager to please everyone. Elinor is very concerned about public image and the lavish wedding she\u2019s throwing isn\u2019t so much about Luke and Becky\u2019s wants or happiness, but more about the publicity for her charity. This book was a lovely 2hrs or so of escapism. I really need to own them all as I enjoy them so much. I do love Becky\u2019s voice. Even though she\u2019s completely frivolous and obsessed by shopping, she\u2019s warm and so easily likable. I think I\u2019d love to have a friend just like her. ...more I am happy that Tarquin and Suzy are getting married. I like how Luke asked Becky to marry him. I am very glad that they are getting married. I like that Becky is trying to figure out how to please her mom and Elinor both. I don't like the lies she is using though. I like how Becky worked out the wedding so that she could wear two dresses and so that Elinor wouldn't be mad at her. I like that Luke was happy with the plans. Oh no! Oh no! What happened to Sophie Kinsella when she wrote this book??!!! Needless to say I wasn\u2019t really pleased with the third novel. The problem book series have, especially when the first two novels were really good, is that the reader is hungry for more good story telling. But unfortunately, with Shopaholic Ties the Knot, it seems like the author has lost her fire\u2026.OH NO!!! Okay, what didn\u2019t I like about it? Well, for starters, the plot seems really ridiculous. Becky Bloomwood\u2019s character Oh no! Oh no! What happened to Sophie Kinsella when she wrote this book??!!! Needless to say I wasn\u2019t really pleased with the third novel. The problem book series have, especially when the first two novels were really good, is that the reader is hungry for more good story telling. But unfortunately, with Shopaholic Ties the Knot, it seems like the author has lost her fire\u2026.OH NO!!! Okay, what didn\u2019t I like about it? Well, for starters, the plot seems really ridiculous. Becky Bloomwood\u2019s character builds a certain level of expectation particularly readers she was introduced to in two prior novels. She is a Shopaholic, right? Then why would she allow two other people to plan her wedding? I mean, if she loves to shop, then what better way to start the story with Becky not being able to resist the huge million-dollar industry of Weddings? There are tons of irresistibly spending sprees she could have done and could have used the excuse, \u2018Hey, I only get married once!\u2019 to explain her splurges. But instead Ms. Kinsella takes the reader to a bizarre scenario where two weddings are being planning for Becky to occur on the same day. How weird is that! I know this is fiction, but at the very least try to think of the readers and how they would relate to the main character! I just got married very recently and I was hoping for the book to indulge me with wedding (mis)adventures so that I can relate, laugh, and recollect about my own wedding planning (not that I splurged\u2026well, maybe a little\u2026)! The new characters Ms. Kinsella introduced are annoying and incomprehensible. First there is Becky\u2019s NYC bestfriend, Danny. He is supposed to be an up and coming designer. Hmmm, really now\u2026then why does he leech off his older brother (who pays the rent) and lies about having his clothes being sold in Barney\u2019s? And when he does design Becky\u2019s outfits, the clothes come apart!!!?? Becky wears one of his \u2018T-shirt Gowns\u2019 (what the heck is that???!!!) when she walked down as Suze\u2019s maid-of-honor, but the pieces of the outfit were coming off!!! Isn\u2019t the criteria of a good fashion designer not just in the creativity of the work but the WORKMANSHIP and innovation of the sewing! Danny also creates Becky\u2019s wedding gown by making \u2018denim\u2019 ruffles? WHAT?????!!!! What bride in her right mind would wear such a thing in a supposedly posh wedding at the New York Plaza, where Hollywood Stars get married? The theme of the wedding is Sleeping Beauty, but Becky has DENIM material on her gown? I am completely appalled at the ridiculousness of all this! Ms. Kinsella should have done some research in dress-making\u2026OR should have not created the Danny character and stuck it out with Suze, whom I always found to be super cool! The character of Luke\u2019s Mom, Elinor, is incomprehensible. Did Ms. Kinsella do this on purpose? Are we really not suppose to understand her? She is rich, snobbish, and very narcistic (she has \u2018secret\u2019 surgeries in Switzerland), who apparently does not really care for Luke and is in fact using him for his time to build up her charity work. However, if she really doesn\u2019t care much for him and is using him for money, then why would she pay six figures to throw them a wedding? Why not be consistent and have him pay for the wedding? The falling out Luke eventually had with Elinor causes him to break down, which Becky calls \u2018mid-life crisis\u2019. I find this part of the story very unconvincing. In the end, Luke and Elinor made-up in such a casual way that I end up shaking my head and asking the question, \u201cWhy go through the trouble of putting a crisis in the story when it is clearly half-baked crisis?\u201d The part I like the best was whenever Becky would find ways to \u2018cover\u2019 her expenses on the bank statement. One of the arguments she and Luke had was \u201cIs a Miu-Miu skirt a house hold expense?\u201d I found that quite funny, but everything else in the story, I shrugged in disappointment. ...more Inhalt: Becky Bloomwood wird heiraten! W\u00e4ren da nur nicht die M\u00fctter der Verm\u00e4hlten, die jeweils g\u00e4nzlich andere Vorstellungen von einer Hochzeitsfeier haben als die andere. Beckys Mutter m\u00f6chte es famili\u00e4r, Lukes daf\u00fcr umso pressetr\u00e4chtiger gestalten. Und schon sitzt Becky mittendrin. Schreib-/Erz\u00e4hlstil: Kinsellas witzige Pointen und kleine Wahrheiten \u00fcber das eigentliche Gl\u00fcck zweier Menschen r\u00fccken mal wieder die Charaktere ins richtige Licht. Ich musste wieder mehrmals \u00fcber Beckys Erfindungsre Inhalt: Becky Bloomwood wird heiraten! W\u00e4ren da nur nicht die M\u00fctter der Verm\u00e4hlten, die jeweils g\u00e4nzlich andere Vorstellungen von einer Hochzeitsfeier haben als die andere. Beckys Mutter m\u00f6chte es famili\u00e4r, Lukes daf\u00fcr umso pressetr\u00e4chtiger gestalten. Und schon sitzt Becky mittendrin. Schreib-/Erz\u00e4hlstil: Kinsellas witzige Pointen und kleine Wahrheiten \u00fcber das eigentliche Gl\u00fcck zweier Menschen r\u00fccken mal wieder die Charaktere ins richtige Licht. Ich musste wieder mehrmals \u00fcber Beckys Erfindungsreichtum lachen und die Zusammenh\u00e4nge, die Kinsella spinnt kann ich nur loben. Meine Meinung: Endlich mal kein Shopping-Drama nach dem anderen! Ich h\u00e4tte mich schwer getan, wenn Kinsella den Fokus auf diese Schw\u00e4che Becky lenken w\u00fcrde. Stattdessen pr\u00e4sentiert sie uns eine g\u00e4nzlich andere Hauptprotagonistin, die sich auf das Eigentliche besinnt: Ihre Heimat, ihre Familie, ihre \u201ealten\u201c Freunde \u2013 kurz: Beckys Wurzeln. Nat\u00fcrlich gespickt mit reichlichen Verwechslungen, vielen Umst\u00e4nden und dennoch eine gro\u00dfe Weiterentwicklung. Fazit: Becky Bloomwood \u2013 Pardon! \u2013 Brandon wird erwachsen und wir beobachten die flippige 27-J\u00e4hrige beim Kompromisse schlie\u00dfen und verhandeln, ohne das ihre Shopping-Leidenschaft zu sehr das Buch verkl\u00e4rt. ...more I don't know how Sophie Kinsella does it, but she takes the exact same plot as the other two Shopaholic books, and makes it even better. I've read 5 books by Sophie Kinsella, and they've all been essentially the same. They all had: -A silly but lovable main (female) character -A hot love interest who is more professional, but loves the MC's quirks -A large cast of supporting characters -Silly and unbelievable situations Even though all of her books follow the same formula, I can't help but love them. I don't know how Sophie Kinsella does it, but she takes the exact same plot as the other two Shopaholic books, and makes it even better. I've read 5 books by Sophie Kinsella, and they've all been essentially the same. They all had: -A silly but lovable main (female) character -A hot love interest who is more professional, but loves the MC's quirks -A large cast of supporting characters -Silly and unbelievable situations Even though all of her books follow the same formula, I can't help but love them. This book is pretty much the first two books with a few changes. Becky starts out getting a bank statement that really is too large, Becky gets into some money trouble, Becky miraculously solves her problems and comes out a better person. Sure, I've read it before, but I loved it the first time, and I loved it again this time. You can never have too much of a good thing. If you liked the first two books, you'll like this one just as much. Now, on to the next one! ...more Carrying on my binge reading of Sophie Kinsella books, I recently picked up the third book in the Shopaholic series, Shopaholic Ties the Knot. It's pretty self-explanatory what happens in this instalment and I have to say, though I didn't enjoy this one as much as the others in the series, there were some brilliant moments and as with the previous books, I just had to know how Becky was going to solve the situation. The main problem I had with this book is that the situation that Becky finds her Carrying on my binge reading of Sophie Kinsella books, I recently picked up the third book in the Shopaholic series, Shopaholic Ties the Knot. It's pretty self-explanatory what happens in this instalment and I have to say, though I didn't enjoy this one as much as the others in the series, there were some brilliant moments and as with the previous books, I just had to know how Becky was going to solve the situation. The main problem I had with this book is that the situation that Becky finds herself in is not resolved until the last few chapters of the book. Usually that wouldn't be a problem but in this case, the main reason for it was Becky's inability to make a decision. However, in the end, I like how everything was resolved and I think that Suze and Luke were developed a lot better as the main side characters. Overall, I'm still definitely carrying on with this series and I look forward to seeing where it goes. ...more", "Title": "Shopaholic Ties the Knot"},
