{"Comments": "this book caused me pain. honest,<---M> physical pain</---M>, primarily in my neck and shoulders, but also a little bit in my left eyeball, where i believe some cellular degradation and apoptosis took place, and also diffusely and bilaterally in the temporomandibular region. it also induced some psychological and existential suffering, and i believe that this was more the author's aim. that being said, mccarthy comes across as the kind of writer who wouldn't be sad to hear that there were negative physical s this book caused me pain. honest, physical pain, primarily in my neck and shoulders, but also a little bit in my left eyeball, where i believe some cellular degradation and apoptosis took place, and also diffusely and bilaterally in the temporomandibular region. it also induced some psychological and existential suffering, and i believe that this was more the author's aim. that being said, mccarthy comes across as the kind of writer who wouldn't be sad to hear that there were negative physical sequelae associated with reading his novel all the way to the end. sometimes the side effects can't be helped. sometimes they are even a necessary part of the reading experience. sorry, mccarthy, but this was not one of those times.<---F> you wounded me for nothing</---F>. thanks. jerk. plot rundown: a presumably average bloke with average friends and average lady troubles is struck by falling debris of unknown (<---B>and legally nondisclosable</---B>) origin. he lapses into a coma and awakes with some severe motor deficits--specifically, he can't remember how to move. anything. at all. he relearns eventually but is only able to animate his various body parts by thinking very specifically about what and how he would like to move, and he can't escape the feeling that his new motion is somehow less than \"actual\" motion. having to think about every move before he undertakes it leaves him distanced from his own body, forced to watch it and instruct it and dictate to it like an off-screen director, rather than simply exist within it like he imagines most people do. this necessary scripting and conscious control of all of his actions makes the narrator feel conspicuously \"inauthentic,\" and the more he considers his circumstances, the more certain he is that inauthenticity has been his default state for most of his life. this troubles him immensely, and he devotes himself to pinpointing a time and place in which he was entirely authentic and then synthetically replicating the movement and surroundings, believing that if he can precisely fabricate or mimic authenticity and then prolong the moment of it, he will be able to memorize it and retrain himself to attain it without deliberation. i assume that we all see how this is a flawed supposition. i imagine that many of you might even roll your eyes a bit at the cartoonish magnitude of the flaw. this is not the thing that causes the pain. the pain is caused by the narrator's manic and escalating pursuit of fabricated authenticity coupled with his and all supporting characters' failure to note the flaw. this is how allegory works, perhaps? only the divine overseer (i.e., tom mccarthy, me, you if you have read the book) has full awareness of the foolishness and futility of the players' desperate little dance, and in that way he or she gets to feel superior while recognizing something that the characters never see? i don't know. if that were all there was to it, this book could have ended at least a hundred pages before it did. mccarthy was after something bigger. he was trying to do something, to us, really do something. and i thought i knew what, and then i realized that was wrong but thought of something else that might be it, and . . . no, that wasn't it, but it's probably--no. crap. oh , i know! i know, it's-- and then the book ended, and it wasn't that last thing, either, and i was left alone, angry and bewildered, with my pain. my very authentic pain. why have you done this, tom mccarthy? i wondered. why have you written this story full of blatantly misguided actions that no one perceives or corrects, with this ending that teaches me nothing and gives me no hope? all of the sidetracks and seemingly pertinent but ultimately irrelevant details, all of the build-ups that come to naught, why? and then i knew why. and i thought, oh, aren't you clever, you microcosm-crafting pedant. aren't you precious. can't you follow the trail of knots and pinched nerves in my sad little spine, the one that you've induced with your hypercrafted philosophy seminar, down to its grand conclusion and kiss my authentic ass. three stars, though. mccarthy knows how to craft a sentence and a scene, and i would never become invested enough in a meritless piece of writing to get this angry about it. i haven't read his short stories, but i probably will, because he does have talent (even if he occasionally inflates or abuses it), and because i am not the sort to hold a grudge. also, i imagine they're better than remainder . the transition from short story to novel can be difficult for the best writer, and ideas aren't always equally suited to both mediums. remainder might have been a blistering short story, and mccarthy's next idea might make for a genius novel. i am not too sore to offer him the benefit of the doubt. but if the next book has the same effect on my jaw, i may not be too magnanimous to send him my dental bill. ...more Zadie Smith praised this book and in her essay on 'realistic' versus whatever you want to call this sort of novel. I'm sure she is smarter than I am and she maybe knows more about literature, but I don't share her enthusiasm for this and I think that there are many better examples of books out there fighting the good fight against the naturalistic / realistic novel. But maybe this is the sort of novel that can serve as a gateway read into the more interesting terrain of 'difficult' literature (o Zadie Smith praised this book and in her essay on 'realistic' versus whatever you want to call this sort of novel. I'm sure she is smarter than I am and she maybe knows more about literature, but I don't share her enthusiasm for this and I think that there are many better examples of books out there fighting the good fight against the naturalistic / realistic novel. But maybe this is the sort of novel that can serve as a gateway read into the more interesting terrain of 'difficult' literature (or post-modern, or whatever term you want to use, I'm lately fond of difficult). It's not that I hated the book or anything. I enjoyed it, but nothing about it ever really won me over either. The writing is sort of autistic in the same way that Don Delillo tends to be sometimes and I had no problem with that. McCarthy never got the words to sing though the way that Delillo does with his overly stylized and flat prose. My major problem was that this novel was a one-trick show and even with attempts at suspending my judgment and letting the novel play by its own rules I just couldn't get over how monumentally immature the main idea in this novel is. The main character, the narrator, suffers a severe injury when something falls on his head. Afterwards he is awarded a very large cash settlement that he uses to fund re-enactments of events. His first reenactment is trying to capture a memory he has of an apartment building, so he goes about rebuilding this scene right down to the cracks in the walls and populates the building with a host of people who have to do small tasks over and over again, being a living loop of this particular memory of his. Behind all of this the narrator is trying to capture a more authentic experience, a hyper-reality. He continues doing this with various sorts of events. Crime scenes, getting a tired changed, among the ones he actually carries out along with future possibilities of little moments that he feels will be worth re-enacting. As a premise I think this is interesting, but it doesn't go anywhere beyond the thrill the narrator has at 'perfecting' reality by replaying an event with actors over and over again until all the messiness of real life has been ironed out of it and the event becomes 'authentic'. This is the sort of Orwellian 2+2=5 that certain strains of post-modernism love to play around with. But just because you say it doesn't make it true. If there were any kind of critique or judgment played out anywhere in this book I'd probably have enjoyed it more, but as the narrator falls deeper and deeper in to his 'unreal' real there is no sign given that the reader should be extrapolating anything other than a Baudrillard sort of nonsense about the nature of reality in our 'post-modern' age. Real life can be alienating and inauthentic, but it's only more alienating and even more inauthentic if you wrap up your view of the world with cutesy paradoxes and empty ramblings of dead French theorists. Maybe I'm not giving the book enough credit though and there is some critique hiding somewhere here. Maybe a book doesn't need critique, and I agree, not every book does, but maybe I would have liked to see more movement in the main character, or have him off-set with another character. All of the other people who populate this book are enablers who go along with helping him create his view of the world. Yeah, they are basically all being paid by him, but still they are the people who create this growing unreality for him. Maybe I'm just not sure what I'm supposed to think of his novel. Should I instead be reading this whole novel as a look at the absurdity of this guy who has been damaged by a big corporation and now is retreating from the real world to a safe place where he can just relive an event at a time without the possibility of real life dropping some potentially lethal shit on his head? Or maybe it was just that the concept of authentic kept coming up, and this works as a code word to me for things to avoid. Generally as soon as someone starts using the word authentic I get the feeling that they are going to tell you exactly what you should do and be and any deviation will make you inauthentic. Or maybe I'm just a little turned off by the way the novel veers towards the end, and knowing sort of where <---A>Tom McCarthy</---A> falls in his philosophical allegiances I can't help but see a Slavoj Zizek sort of figure masturbating furiously to images and thoughts of impersonal violence and salivating about how he can turn this fetishistic voyeurism into a new 'radical' theory. But most likely I'm just annoyed at the basic ideas of the novel, and see too much of my own navel-gazing that I took for profundity and I'm holding it to the same standard that I hold my old self to, yeah, interesting idea but now do something with it. And maybe I just see too many parallels in the trajectory of some of my own thinking and see them both ending in horrific violence and I'm a bit bewildered how it can be seen as anything beautiful or authentic. Or is the reader supposed to make this sort of mental leap themselves? I don't know. Maybe I just missed a nudge or some sign that would have put this into a better context for me. If you don't want to get hung up on the stuff that I get hung up on, this isn't a bad book at all. I don't think it's a great book, and as I said up near the top of the review I think there are better books of his sort of thing out there. But as a gateway sort of novel into the land of DFW and Gaddis and all of those sorts this could be good. It just doesn't go far enough or do much beyond it's one basic idea and if you don't have an aversion to the idea you just might enjoy this. If the word Baudrillard gives you hives though you might want to skip this. ...more In a light that is fierce and strong one can see the world dissolve. \u2013Franz Kafka In his first (published) novel, I am convinced that Tom McCarthy realized his beguilingly strange fictive vision within a degree of perfection. In a skillfully wrought authorial mirroring, every element begets that which renders it contingent\u2014the everyman narrative voice, the unadorned prose, the detached inflection and intonation, the hum of the banal and drone of the workaday, the subdued sexuality, the repetitiv In a light that is fierce and strong one can see the world dissolve. \u2013Franz Kafka In his first (published) novel, I am convinced that Tom McCarthy realized his beguilingly strange fictive vision within a degree of perfection. In a skillfully wrought authorial mirroring, every element begets that which renders it contingent\u2014the everyman narrative voice, the unadorned prose, the detached inflection and intonation, the hum of the banal and drone of the workaday, the subdued sexuality, the repetitive nature and clerkish attention to detail, the threadbare characterization, unexplored potentialities, the tangential asides upon minutiae, the rational explorations of the irrational\u2014each and all are of a structure that is necessitated by its component parts whilst simultaneously constraining those parts to fit its formative strictures. Thus, it is the case that, in my opinion, the properties of the novel which have produced an array of negative critiques would be difficult to address without substantively diminishing the level of perfection they have attained towards the full expression of the authorial vision; that those readerly complaints, while reasonably conceived and justifiably construed, would likely prove unanswerable without <+++>Remainder</+++> becoming something entirely different at its very core\u2014for this is a M\u00f6bius strip of a novel, enacting the internal and external theaters of existence without ever traversing the environ of the one for the other. McCarthy is herein operating at the margins espied by all whose have experienced the transcendent shivers of a cognition in sensual embrace with the material world, the pneuma made aware that its sundering from original unity is neither eternal nor punitive, but of a harmonious cosmic mystery. The world is the closed door. It is a barrier. And at the same time it is the way through. \u2013Simone Weil And a mystery <+++>Remainder</+++> , well, remains\u2014one all the more remarkable in that its fictional essence works on several different levels with seemingly equal plausibility and aplomb. It begs to be reread, that one might either polish the sheen of previous perception, or perhaps opt to explore the possibilities of a differing avenue of interpretation altogether. While it did not blow me away, leave me astounded by the prose or the concept, it still left me highly impressed with how McCarthy so masterfully achieved the effects that he seemed to have set out to achieve. It's a remarkable achievement: in the annals of literature, it stands unique\u2014a strange but precise unveiling of one man's obsession. The nameless narrator, a stand-in for the modern English everyman who is whittling away his days within the nebulous-but-ubiquitous commercial environs of market research, having been incapacitated in hospital for several months after something struck him at the terminal point of free-fall, receives an eight-and-a-half million pound settlement from the undisclosed corporation held responsible, thanks, in no small part, to the persistent wiles of his solicitor. At a loss for what to do with this windfall, and suffering a perduring sensation of incompleteness, of inauthenticity, since awakening from his coma, a chance encounter at an acquaintance's housewarming party invokes a potent and paralyzing inner vision: of a previous physical environment, within a tenement block, in which a sequence of active and inactive interactions between the narrator and a select portion of his neighbours are recalled as having been complete and purifying in their orderly, natural flow. Though it cannot be determined, with any precision, whether the vision was deja-vu or jamais-vu , it imprints itself with overwhelming and mnemonically replete force within the narrator's mind, and provides him with an end for his newly acquired financial means: the reconstruction, down the most minute of details, of this tenement, complete with live-in actors to portray the neighbours, and in operation twenty-four/seven based upon the whims of the head conductor. Immensely satisfied with the transcendent results he obtains from these re-enactions, the narrator opts to explore the potentiality within further recreations based upon happenstance that transpires within his new life: that of the repair of a flattened tire and the subsequent flooding of a faulty windshield wiper fluid container; the drive-by execution of a black gang member on the streets of Brixton; and a re-enactment of the re-enactment. As with any addiction, that of the narrator's drive to satisfy his compulsion for precisely contextual unfolding seeks an outlet in ever more complex and variegated dosages, until, in a conceptual masterstroke, he conceives the potential for merging recreation with creation, a blending of actual and fantasy that brings his entire operation unto the precipice. There are different ways the novel's events can be understood: an ironic look at how the whims of the wealthy are designed to be catered to in our modern societies, the respect accorded their power to buy people, even as beings whose actions are scripted to the utmost detail, and the questionable morality underwriting a power with such subtle immanency for abuse. A satire upon our burgeoning need to feel a connexion with the world, to establish our identities in ways that soothe the alienation imposed by our democratic capitalist system, by means of turning that alienation on its head by observing history and then reworking it until all of the kinks have been ironed out. Yet I believe that McCarthy is aiming for higher ground herein: there is an appreciable level of respect held towards the narrator for the fact that he is sparing no object\u2014effort, time, money\u2014in order to realize a private vision that the others, though obtaining none of the same shivery but serene metaphysical bliss from the results, still manage to attain a considerable satisfaction from, whatever their connexion to a particular facet of the re-enactment; this applies especially to Naz, the logistics wunderkind whose organizational prowess proves instrumental in bringing these complex visions to fruition. There is a taste of the pleasures of the Demiurge mingled with that of his creations ; it is worth noting that, throughout the span of the re-enactment projects, not a single employee\u2014behind the scenes or live in the unfolding\u2014quits from frustration, boredom, or anxiety. The narrator, while succoring his own soul, appears to be providing a measure of that solace to the spirits of his vastly expanding crew. By reducing the pace of the recollected flow, temporal progress is brought almost to the condition of canvases parading past\u2014regular modern existence endowed with the sublime and moving characteristics of a painting from a past master; the sterility of a practical and bustling twentieth-century enhanced with the revelational potential of colour-wrought universal expression. Is it better to use one's money to bring about an artistic endeavor, rather than simply finagling another way to snag a buck from the consumer? Particularly when there is no intent to recoup any of the production costs through the enactment itself? The narrator is convinced. Self-aware, believing himself clumsy and plastic in this unreal world, it is through the slowing down of scripted, anticipated routines that he manages to bring time to a standstill, merging the past, present, and future into a melange of unity; to go from being outside, forlorn and alone, to within the very core of existence, authentic, enlivened, not observing the world be but an integral component of how that being, constrained by the ticking of the clock, can take control of the process, ensuring a flow of life that sets the nerve-ends on fire with its spatial integrality, its enveloping cohesion. Seeing through one's eyes or the eyes of others brings people's lives\u2014otherwise rushed, fleeting, absorbed in the moment\u2014into coherence, provides the room for and establishes the importance of pausing to drink in the amassed richness of one's immediate environment, take an exquisite pleasure from the otherwise banal details of how one is positioned, what materials one is amidst, how the light can be captured in an endless variety of angled reflections and refraction. In the sensory perceptions of an ordered recreation, the otherwise depletable banks of memory are augmented, strengthened, filled to the brim and warded against the decays of aged egress. And yet, the narrator increasingly becomes aware that the introduction of random events into an established procedure, the interplay of chance with preordained regimen, heightens the glow engendered through the re-enactive process; that any element of life is inherent with the possibility of stochastic imposition upon the structuring of things, and that this element constitutes a vital part of lived experience. Hell, contra Einstein, perhaps God enjoys the roll of the dice. It's all very strange, but wonderful; precise and cantered, but flowing and propulsive. I loved it. There are intimations throughout that things are not quite what they seem: is the narrator still in a coma, his dormant mind harvesting these visions in the effort to break the barriers of an unconscious existence? This interpretation is heightened by the unlikely acceptance of the narrator's bizarre schemes by his legion of employees, the odd patina of unreality that coats his more deeply etched material theatre. Other hints point to the fact that the narrator may, in fact, have died in the accident, in which case these enacted visions may be part of the process of shedding his spirit of its material ties through a spiraling ascendence unto the empyrean. Or has he been given some manner of gift through his traumatic experience? And such gifts bear their own thorns: an amorality to how he is using people, and a callousness in his demands and interests\u2014he also cuts himself off from any and all people not of service in the attainment of his weird, compulsive need. Do all great artists need become, in some measure, baser humans? Does a great inner drive demand an abatement of one's humanity? McCarthy raises a bevy of tantalizing questions, whilst never offering hard or complete answers. It is merely put out there for every reader to determine on their own. And the ending, ah, the ending; for the umpteenth time, not at all what I had expected, but utterly apropos to everything that has gone before. It's a curious thing. I have never, in my entire life, conceived an overriding passion for anything. I'm good at many things, have developed a wide variety of interests over the years, am a jack-of-many trades, in work and in life. But I lack that burning passion that declares itself in others. Anything that I can conceive of doing I can also conceive of abandoning; anything capable of being perfected can prove satisfactory for me through mere proficiency. I've never had a favorite anything. Middle of the road, easy-going, malleable; that's how I pass my days. You cannot fake being consumed by a desire, in thrall to a drive to bring something about, meet someone, attain select goals. It's either there or it isn't. So it is that books like Remainder draw me in more deeply, hold me more rapt, than it might others. Such one-way charges, torpedoes be damned, fascinate me to the utmost, and thus the narrator of this tale provided me with a trail of existential crumbs I couldn't fail to follow but with full absorption. Four-and-a-half stars, rounded down because I'm a fickle son-of-a-bitch, and this won't be the last book by McCarthy that I read. ...more Rarely does a book manage to break down the habits and expectations that a reader builds up in a lifetime of reading. Novels conform to schemas: there are quests, there are obstacles to be overcome, there are the universal standbys of love, hate, sex and murder: death must come violently and suddenly in order to grip the reader and to disentangle her from the nasty feeling that it might be her destiny too one day. Of course these are broad and possibly unfair generalisations, but you get the poin Rarely does a book manage to break down the habits and expectations that a reader builds up in a lifetime of reading. Novels conform to schemas: there are quests, there are obstacles to be overcome, there are the universal standbys of love, hate, sex and murder: death must come violently and suddenly in order to grip the reader and to disentangle her from the nasty feeling that it might be her destiny too one day. Of course these are broad and possibly unfair generalisations, but you get the point: the reservoir of storytelling is limited, and most authors are quite happy to wallow in the same shallows that their forebears found so reassuring. True, the 20th century saw some brave and sometimes foolhardy attempts to punt out into uncharted waters - the French nouvelle roman is perhaps the most prominent example of this - but today we are back to compendiousness, narrative and the Jonathan Franzens of this world: wise witty wordsmiths whose pat answers and worldly patter is carefully weighed against liberal Doubts and Cultured Concern as to the Future of the World. And then along comes Tom McCarthy. A writer whose books (all right, call them novels if you must) record the bravest moments of Robbe-Grillet, but make it all look so effortless and at the same time manage to entertain to the extent that you want to slap him on the back and buy him a pint. So what does happen in Remainder? Not very much, and when it does, it gets repeated time after time after time. Not exactly a recipe for success, you might think. But McCarthy's style is so casual, so insouciant, so offhand, that everything comes across as a paradox and a poser, as if there were a novel behind the novel, a story behind the story. But what could be behind it though? This is the question that occupied me in the first few run-throughs: who is his model? Is it Sartre, or perhaps Kirkegaard, or is it more contemporary, perhaps Ballard? This last option comes closest to the truth: McCarthy's protagonist in Remainder is the victim of an unexplained accident; he obsesses over memories that he believes can lead to insights if re-enacted, and when these actually are re-enacted he falls into fugues and trances that are reminiscent of the catatonic states in which so many Ballard characters spend their happiest hours. In this way the book is tinged with the atmosphere of both Vermilion Sands and Crash . The private, psychological, obsessive nature of the book all speak for a Ballardian inheritance, as does the book's later phase in which the scene moves to an abandoned airport hangar near Heathrow, a Ballardian location if ever there was one. What speaks against it though is the language, the attitude. Unlike Ballard, McCarthy writes in a modern, idiomatic, demotic style. For anyone who has lived in - or even spent time in - London, the tone and overall slant of the protagonists blank, hacked-off impassivity will be familiar, if not welcome. (A brief aside: this is a London novel with a London attitude that is so far removed from the flavourless word-strudel of The Finkler Question , that I feel inclined to suggest that Howard Jacobson should take the time to read his younger contemporary's effort - and learn.) The city pervades and invades every aspect of the book: places are always described with the utmost accuracy, whether Coldharbour Lane in Brixton, a bank in Chiswick or a lawyer's office in Islington. But more than geography, it's about texture: the brick dust, chewing gum, tarry oil and generic filth that defines the urban environment: a world of tawdry minutiae in which the protagonist loses himself and temporarily escapes the apparent meaninglessness of his existence. It seems that the more I write the more there is to say with this book. Because I haven't even started describing the actual story, if that's a meaningful label for what happens here. What does happen is a curious set of events that begins with something unexplained falling from the sky. This object injures the novels protagonist so severely that he spends several months in hospital: initially comatose, then without the use of his limbs, and eventually in the hands of a physiotherapist who re-teaches him basic movements, from holding objects to eating and finally walking. This is related in flashback on the day when \"the settlement\", a payment of eight million pounds from whoever let the unknown object fall on our hero, arrives. After overcoming the initial shock of receiving such a massive payout, he wonders what to do with the money and rejects his friend Dave's hedonism - sniff cocaine of the back of the best-looking prostitute you can find until the money runs out - and his not-quite girlfriend Caroline's altruistic suggestion that he donate the money to a charity in Africa. In fact he has very little idea of what to do until he goes to a party and discovers a crack in the bathroom wall that triggers a set of previously concealed memories. In these memories he lives at the top of a block in a flat that also has a bathroom with a similar crack in the wall, sick but living plants in the hallway and a rear window view of a courtyard where black cats stalk languidly over red rooftops while in the flat below an elderly woman fries liver and in the flat below hers a melancholy pianist practices all day long. Other details also emerge: a motorbike freak who spends hours in the yard tinkering with his machine and a concierge who is present but quite static. In the midst of this memory is another: the memory of moving through the flat completely at ease in the world: he remembers gliding through the rooms like a dancer, without even thinking about his movements, opening the fridge in a fluid, lyrical movement and not having to think about what he was doing. Of course this plays with the reader's expectations on several levels: is this a psychological problem, a philosophical problem or rather something in the aesthetic realm? All three ideas are handsomely treated, though none is finally excused. We are kept in suspense between the various possibilities, with connotations, cultural cross-references and symbolically loaded reverberations whizzing around the echo-chamber of Mr. McCarthy's wonderful machine. I could go on now, but I haven't got the time. It's a wonderful book. More later... ...more Fascinating, disturbing, strange, compelling. To actually write about Remainder would, I fear, spoil the book for anyone who hasn't read it. Even to list the variety of questions swarming around in my head seems like it could ruin it. So, I won't. I'll just say that this book is unlike anything else I've read and I loved it. I suspect this is going to haunt me for a while. Which is cool. Finally, I finished reading Remainder by Tom McCarthy. I have been reading this 300-something page book, which I purchased based on a recommendation from McSweeney\u2019s, for weeks. Today, I willed myself to finish it. My professors at the University of Maryland, Merrill Feitell and Maud Casey, constantly discuss the importance of the first fifty pages of a book. They believe that these introductory pages can make or break a novel. When Victor LaValle spoke to our workshop, he recalled what it had bee Finally, I finished reading Remainder by Tom McCarthy. I have been reading this 300-something page book, which I purchased based on a recommendation from McSweeney\u2019s, for weeks. Today, I willed myself to finish it. My professors at the University of Maryland, Merrill Feitell and Maud Casey, constantly discuss the importance of the first fifty pages of a book. They believe that these introductory pages can make or break a novel. When Victor LaValle spoke to our workshop, he recalled what it had been like to judge a novel competition; hundreds and hundreds of books were sent to him, and he had no choice but to screen them. If the fifty pages were compelling, he would continue reading. If the fifty pages said nothing of interest, he had to put the book aside. I was more generous than LaValle might have been with McCarthy\u2019s book. After fifty pages, this is all the reader learns: a young guy loses his memory after a horrible accident (unnamed), and his lawyer manages to settle for eight and a half million pounds, which the young man invests in the stock market with the help of a financial adviser. McCarthy\u2019s writing isn\u2019t even all that compelling. From the very beginning of the book, the dialogue is painful to read. Words that characters exchange in this novel are boring and unnecessary: \u201c\u2018Does this champagne smell like cordite to you?\u2019 I asked. \u2018What?\u2019 said Greg. \u2018Cordite,\u2019 I said, raising my voice above the music. \u2018Cordite?\u2019 Greg said, raising his voice too. \u2018What does cordite smell like?\u2019 \u2018This,\u2019 I answered. \u2018I don\u2019t think so,\u2019 Greg said.\u201d I bet even Tom McCarthy would think that this dialogue is inane and boring, if he were to read it right here, outside the context of his imagination. Most of the conversations in the book follow this particular example, and I found myself skipping through many character interactions to get to the book\u2019s strongest point: the narrator\u2019s thoughts. Starting on page 64, for a few brief moments, the novel gets really good. The narrator is at a party, and he experiences a strong sense of deja vu while staring at a crack in the wall of a bathroom. McCarthy writes: \u201cI\u2019d been in a space like this before, a place just like this, looking at the crack, a crack that had jutted and meandered in the same way as the one beside the mirror\u2026I remembered it all, but I couldn\u2019t remember where I\u2019d been in this place, this flat, this bathroom.\u201d I will spare you the entire passage because the narrator repeats the same thing over and over, basically. This idea, however, is interesting to me. For the first time since the accident, the narrator remembers something, possibly from the life he lead before the accident. What\u2019s even more compelling is how he responds to his sudden emotional upheaval. He is so moved by this deja vu, which made him feel \u201creal,\u201d that he decides to find a way to reenact the scene in the bathroom. He hires a project manager, Naz, to help him find \u201creenactors\u201d to play the roles of the people that he imagined and dedicates his money to the purchase of a building just like the one he remembered, with the same crack carefully made in a bathroom modeled after the one at the party. Just when he thinks everything is perfect, everything goes wrong. He realizes that life is too volatile and random to allow for the manifestation of his desires. That realization comes around page 150. One hundred and fifty more pages to go. The narrator decides to reenact all types of events that occur to him in his \u201creal\u201d life, like a trip to the car mechanic, a murder he read about in the newspaper, and a bank hold-up. Naz never questions why he continually wants to reenact these events. The narrator has an idea, they execute the idea, he is generally unsatisfied, and then he moves on to the next whim. Over and over for one hundred pages. I really liked some of McCarthy\u2019s ideas, and I thought this book had a lot of potential. I mean, I did finish reading the book, despite all the issues that I had with it. I wanted to see if McCarthy would be able to develop this idea, the narrator\u2019s desire for staging his most moving moments, and turn it into something that would make for a good story, one that could move forward and evolve. As it turns out, this was a horrible story but a great concept. McCarthy seems to me to be a great thinker but a horrible storyteller. I liked the ending, but that, like much of the rest of the book, worked on its own as an isolated incident that gave me no insight into the narrator as a character and demonstrated neither change nor evolution. I don\u2019t think the person at the end of the book is the person at the beginning of the book, but I don\u2019t understand how McCarthy got from point A to point B. Maybe I will have to reenact my reading of Remainder in order for me to better understand. Who wants to see me read five pages and then throw a book down in boredom and frustration? ...more Novela extra\u00f1a donde las haya, pero tambi\u00e9n de las que perduran en la memoria tiempo despu\u00e9s de su lectura. Mediante una prosa sencilla, Tom McCarthy aborda temas trascendentales como la imperfecci\u00f3n de la realidad o la b\u00fasqueda de lo aut\u00e9ntico. La historia tiene como protagonista a un londinense que nos ir\u00e1 narrando lo que le sucedi\u00f3. Acaba de recuperarse de un accidente; algo le cay\u00f3 del cielo provoc\u00e1ndole unas lesiones que le dejaron temporalmente en coma, y borr\u00e1ndole parte de su memoria. Tra Novela extra\u00f1a donde las haya, pero tambi\u00e9n de las que perduran en la memoria tiempo despu\u00e9s de su lectura. Mediante una prosa sencilla, Tom McCarthy aborda temas trascendentales como la imperfecci\u00f3n de la realidad o la b\u00fasqueda de lo aut\u00e9ntico. La historia tiene como protagonista a un londinense que nos ir\u00e1 narrando lo que le sucedi\u00f3. Acaba de recuperarse de un accidente; algo le cay\u00f3 del cielo provoc\u00e1ndole unas lesiones que le dejaron temporalmente en coma, y borr\u00e1ndole parte de su memoria. Tras meses de recuperaci\u00f3n, un abogado le comunica que ha recibido una indemnizaci\u00f3n por parte de una extra\u00f1a entidad: ocho millones y medio de libras. A cambio, \u00e9l no podr\u00e1 contarle a nadie lo que le ha pasado. Tras haberse recuperado y haber pasado por una etapa de re-aprendizaje, el protagonista se da cuenta de que no percibe la realidad de manera natural. Se muestra ap\u00e1tico, y la mayor\u00eda de cosas le parecen artificiales, como aprendidas. Hasta que un d\u00eda, en la fiesta en casa de un conocido, tiene un d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu que le hace recordar ciertas escenas y personas asociadas a ellas. No sabe qui\u00e9nes son, pero le parecen unos recuerdos ya vividos. A partir de aqu\u00ed, el protagonista se obsesiona por los ecos de estos recuerdos, por las sensaciones que le proporcionan. Y no es que se trate de nada extraordinario, se trata de recuerdos de una realidad anodina, pero eso s\u00ed, le transmiten esa sensaci\u00f3n de naturalidad y autenticidad que tanto desea el narrador. As\u00ed que ni corto ni perezoso, decide utilizar su dinero para re-crear estos recuerdos, comprando edificios y contratando a la gente que sea necesaria para dar vida al proyecto. Pero los recuerdos ser\u00e1n s\u00f3lo el principio de una espeluznante obsesi\u00f3n: repetir la realidad, una y otra y otra vez. Este argumento que introduce la ficci\u00f3n en la realidad, que puede recordar a \u2018El Show de Truman\u2019, tiene m\u00e1s de una lectura: realidad contra ficci\u00f3n, donde el protagonista \u00fanicamente se siente real cuando re-crea y se siente parte de una realidad escenificada, entrando en una clara paradoja; lo que cierta gente es capaz de hacer por dinero, cuando se les pide que se rebajen a realizar todo aquello que se les ordene; la realidad enfrentada al tiempo y al espacio, o movimiento perpetuo, cuando el protagonista se obsesiona en la re-creaci\u00f3n de escenas; la obsesi\u00f3n por la materia y sus residuos. Me pregunto cu\u00e1ndo deja de ser aut\u00e9ntico un hecho que se repite m\u00faltiples veces. Sin duda, la novela de Tom McCarthy est\u00e1 llamada a convertirse en un cl\u00e1sico. ...more ingiltere'nin b\u00fcy\u00fck yay\u0131nc\u0131lar\u0131n\u0131n defalarca reddetti\u011fi bir romanm\u0131\u015f kalan. k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir yay\u0131nevi taraf\u0131ndan bas\u0131lm\u0131\u015f, kitap\u00e7\u0131lara bile da\u011f\u0131t\u0131lmam\u0131\u015f, derken bir tan\u0131t\u0131m yaz\u0131s\u0131yla ele\u015ftirmenlerin dikkatini \u00e7ekmi\u015f, sonra \u00f6d\u00fcller alm\u0131\u015f, yazar\u0131na \u015f\u00f6hret kazand\u0131rm\u0131\u015f, on d\u00f6rt dile \u00e7evrilmi\u015f... bu t\u00fcr ba\u015far\u0131 hikayelerine sahip romanlar genellikle bi\u00e7im \u00f6zellikleriyle ya da diliyle genel kabulden ayr\u0131lan romanlar oluyor. ancak kalan, son derece sade/basit bir dille yaz\u0131lm\u0131\u015f, bi\u00e7im olarak \"d\u00fcz\", okuru kesinl ingiltere'nin b\u00fcy\u00fck yay\u0131nc\u0131lar\u0131n\u0131n defalarca reddetti\u011fi bir romanm\u0131\u015f kalan. k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir yay\u0131nevi taraf\u0131ndan bas\u0131lm\u0131\u015f, kitap\u00e7\u0131lara bile da\u011f\u0131t\u0131lmam\u0131\u015f, derken bir tan\u0131t\u0131m yaz\u0131s\u0131yla ele\u015ftirmenlerin dikkatini \u00e7ekmi\u015f, sonra \u00f6d\u00fcller alm\u0131\u015f, yazar\u0131na \u015f\u00f6hret kazand\u0131rm\u0131\u015f, on d\u00f6rt dile \u00e7evrilmi\u015f... bu t\u00fcr ba\u015far\u0131 hikayelerine sahip romanlar genellikle bi\u00e7im \u00f6zellikleriyle ya da diliyle genel kabulden ayr\u0131lan romanlar oluyor. ancak kalan, son derece sade/basit bir dille yaz\u0131lm\u0131\u015f, bi\u00e7im olarak \"d\u00fcz\", okuru kesinlikle zorlam\u0131yor. kalan'\u0131 i\u00e7eri\u011fi farkl\u0131 k\u0131l\u0131yor. bu ilgin\u00e7. i\u00e7eri\u011fin gittik\u00e7e g\u00f6z ard\u0131 edildi\u011fi bir d\u00f6nemde dikkat \u00e7ekici ve \u00f6nemli. peki ne anlat\u0131yor bu roman?..k\u0131saca, anlat\u0131lmayan \u015feyleri. anlat\u0131lamayan de\u011fil, anlat\u0131lmayan, anlat\u0131lmaya gerek duyulmayan \u015feyler bu roman\u0131n konusu. \"\u015feyler\" de olaylar de\u011fil hareketler, k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck hareketlerin olu\u015fturdu\u011fu anlar ve durumlardan ibaret. bir ad\u0131m atmak, bir yiyece\u011fe uzanmak gibi kendili\u011finden oldu\u011funu sand\u0131\u011f\u0131m\u0131z basit/g\u00fcndelik hareketleri ge\u00e7irdi\u011fi kaza sonucu d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnerek/anlayarak yapmak zorunda kalan isimsiz bir kahraman\u0131 var roman\u0131n. bu isimsiz kahraman d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcn\u00fclmeyeni d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnmeye ba\u015fl\u0131yor, d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnd\u00fck\u00e7e sorguluyor ve aray\u0131\u015flara giriyor. k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck, basit hareketleri d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnmeden/anlamadan yapanlar\u0131n b\u00f6yle bir meselesi yokken isimsiz kahraman kendini \"sahici olmayan biri\" olarak hissediyor ve b\u00fcy\u00fck sorusunu soruyor: ger\u00e7ek olan nedir?..cevap i\u00e7in anlar\u0131 b\u00fcy\u00fct\u00fcyor, zaman\u0131 geni\u015fletiyor, tekrarlara, \"yeniden canland\u0131rmalar\"a kendini ad\u0131yor. okurun romanda izledi\u011fi \"hikaye\" bu yeniden canland\u0131rmalar oluyor b\u00f6ylece. g\u00f6zden ka\u00e7ana bakmak, detaylar\u0131 fark etmek, zaman\u0131n d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnmeye yer b\u0131rakmayan h\u0131z\u0131n\u0131 d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcrmek, d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnmek i\u00e7in yava\u015flatmak, anlamak i\u00e7in tekrarlamak...kahraman\u0131n\u0131n hayat\u0131ndan okura sunduklar\u0131 bunlar kalan'\u0131n. kalan okumaya/d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnmeye de\u011fer kesinlikle. ...more I had to give this book four stars although I can not recommend it. It really drew me in. I couldn't put it down but then as I went on, it became more and more disturbing until it got just outright creepy. This book is so intricate and well-written. I think it will stay with me for a long time, but I don't really want it to. I was SO creeped out by the end of it, I actually felt anxious for several days after finishing it. It affected the way I looked at things around me, the details that you wo I had to give this book four stars although I can not recommend it. It really drew me in. I couldn't put it down but then as I went on, it became more and more disturbing until it got just outright creepy. This book is so intricate and well-written. I think it will stay with me for a long time, but I don't really want it to. I was SO creeped out by the end of it, I actually felt anxious for several days after finishing it. It affected the way I looked at things around me, the details that you wouldn't normally notice. The book seemed to heighten my awareness and actually change my perception of my world, for a few days anyway. I want to believe that this is fiction and that there aren't people out there who are so disconnected from humanity and emotion. ...more Me and a friend each received promo copies of this...as far as I understand, it's \u00c0 rebours meets Groundhog Day ...or a man relives aesthetic minutae, or aesthetic minutae becomes his life. Or is that \"I and a friend\"? Me (...) received (a) promo I (...) received (a) promo I and a friend received promo copies of this...as far as I understand, it's \u00c0 rebours meets Groundhog Day ...or a man relives aesthetic minutae, or aesthetic minutae becomes his life. I received a promo copy of this. A friend did, Me and a friend each received promo copies of this...as far as I understand, it's \u00c0 rebours meets Groundhog Day ...or a man relives aesthetic minutae, or aesthetic minutae becomes his life. Or is that \"I and a friend\"? Me (...) received (a) promo I (...) received (a) promo I and a friend received promo copies of this...as far as I understand, it's \u00c0 rebours meets Groundhog Day ...or a man relives aesthetic minutae, or aesthetic minutae becomes his life. I received a promo copy of this. A friend did, too. It's \u00c0 rebours (or Against Nature ) meets Groundhog Day : a man relives aesthetic minutiae, or aesthetic minutiae becomes his life. A friend and I received free copies of this book. As I understand, it's \u00c0 rebours meets Groundhog Day ; or a man pays for the reenactment of aesthetic minutiae, or aesthetic minutiae becomes his life. ...more I *loved* this book, but probably because it has exactly the ingredients I like: \"unreliable\" narrator, sharp writing, and a page-turning plot -- so hard to find all of these in one book! I thought the premise was moderately interesting, but it's not what captured me. Rather, it was the way the book spun out and the narrator unraveled that fascinated me. And Tom McCarthy is just smart and witty, and his prose is razor-sharp. Reading the other reviews on this site of this book, I was genuinely sur I *loved* this book, but probably because it has exactly the ingredients I like: \"unreliable\" narrator, sharp writing, and a page-turning plot -- so hard to find all of these in one book! I thought the premise was moderately interesting, but it's not what captured me. Rather, it was the way the book spun out and the narrator unraveled that fascinated me. And Tom McCarthy is just smart and witty, and his prose is razor-sharp. Reading the other reviews on this site of this book, I was genuinely surprised how many people didn't like the book. I think I could read anything written with as much style and precision as this book. The overall idea reminded me a bit of DeLillo or Saramago, and the razor-sharp writing reminded me of Ian McEwan, Damon Galgut, and J.M. Coetzee. Highly recommended! Caveat: I gave this a 5, with the understanding that \"Pale Fire\" and \"The Egyptologist\" both score 10. ...more Flawless. A taut, tidy, disturbing little piece of fiction, and one that certainly won't be for everyone. A novel that should have been stifling and airless somehow manages to feel aerated and cautiously expansive, like an inflating balloon on the verge of bursting. This isn't the sort of book for readers in the mood for something filled with likable characters or lyrical emoting. I love those books, but Remainder is not one of them--it isn't for the heart, it's for the head. It is a thought exp Flawless. A taut, tidy, disturbing little piece of fiction, and one that certainly won't be for everyone. A novel that should have been stifling and airless somehow manages to feel aerated and cautiously expansive, like an inflating balloon on the verge of bursting. This isn't the sort of book for readers in the mood for something filled with likable characters or lyrical emoting. I love those books, but Remainder is not one of them--it isn't for the heart, it's for the head. It is a thought experiment, intensely rational, with lovely descriptive passages of everyday minutiae. I kept thinking of Observatory Mansions when I read this--the books are quite different, but there is a certain kinship in the quality of the bizarre on display (where Observatory Mansions is concerned with the practice of stillness and the collection of objects, Remainder is concerned with the practice of motion and the collection moments/experiences). Some people will, undoubtedly, find it gimmicky and hateable. I sort of understand their point, despite finding this to be an uncommonly polished, pitch perfect piece of writing. ...more My girlfriend read this book and hated it. So there are two reasons not to bother: 1) I usually agree with her about this stuff, so why waste the time? 2) If I read it and love it, she'll just look at me with contempt and shake her head. Sorry, Tom McCarthy. If it makes you feel any better, I decided to probably not read C all on my own. It just seems annoying is all. When The Guardian reviewed this novel, they referred to it as \"splendidly odd\" and I think that is an excellent description. After a major accident and subsequent rehabilitation, a man is triggered by a crack in someone's wall to \"re-enact\" memories (although they might not actually be memories). As he has \u00a38.5 million in compensation to play with, his re-enactments are extravagant. But, clearly, his mind after his accident doesn't work quite like a \"normal\" mind. Things spiral downwards. This bo When The Guardian reviewed this novel, they referred to it as \"splendidly odd\" and I think that is an excellent description. After a major accident and subsequent rehabilitation, a man is triggered by a crack in someone's wall to \"re-enact\" memories (although they might not actually be memories). As he has \u00a38.5 million in compensation to play with, his re-enactments are extravagant. But, clearly, his mind after his accident doesn't work quite like a \"normal\" mind. Things spiral downwards. This book starts off clever and funny and ends up clever and dark. It explores identity and memory. You will wait a long time to read another book as inventive and unusual as this. McCarthy is a bit like Richard Powers, I think: both are fascinated by connections and patterns, both are clearly very, very clever, both write books that I really enjoy reading. ...more Is it a sign of Remainder's greatness or its unevenness that I can't come up with a firm stance on it? Well, you could certainly make the first argument. Zadie Smith argues that this could become the future of literature, a novel that makes no attempt at the transubstantial miracles of more conventional fiction (words become people! And a representation of the noble human soul! Hence, so say the realists, the importance, the importance of their conventions!), and as someone who can take or leave Is it a sign of Remainder's greatness or its unevenness that I can't come up with a firm stance on it? Well, you could certainly make the first argument. Zadie Smith argues that this could become the future of literature, a novel that makes no attempt at the transubstantial miracles of more conventional fiction (words become people! And a representation of the noble human soul! Hence, so say the realists, the importance, the importance of their conventions!), and as someone who can take or leave the realist conventions, I do appreciate this novel's relationship with them. Often it seems like it's written in complete ignorance of those conventions - check out McCarthy's weirdly stunted language and his flat refusal to provide his characters with any interiority whatsoever - but sometimes, as in the truly glorious anti-simile \"it looked like something that had come out of something,\" he seems to deliberately poke at and provoke them. These aspects of the book are all kinds of fun, and McCarthy certainly has his own approach to minimalism. It's got nothing to do with either the under-the-surface minimalism of Carver and Hemingway or the authoritative minimalism of Didion and the other McCarthy. If anything, McCarthy is closest to Bret Easton Ellis' deliberately flattened affect, and I'd be a hell of a lot madder about that if McCarthy was more of a dick about it. Yes, there are plenty of points where he teeters on Ellis and a merciful few where he falls in, mostly toward the novel's funny yet oddly dissatisfying end (too predictable?), but McCarthy's project interests me far more than Ellis'. See, this novel's unnamed protagonist is a recovering amnesiac, and judging by both the nigh-obsessive repetition in the prose structure and the occasional reaches into more conventionally lyrical writing, it strikes me that the simple language is meant to parallel the speaker's attempts to re-comprehend a world that had once seemed so natural to him. The narrator's insistent obfuscation, which he seems completely unaware of, also leads to some deadpan comedy. So far, so good. My problems with this novel kick in as the plot does, as the narrator grows obsessed with recreating events of his past in search of authenticity. Which leads to a) a lot of rather shallow \"nothing is authentic, everything is created\" posturing that strikes me, at least, as a knock-off of DeLillo's far more nuanced \"realer-than-real\" deals (indeed, our very own Greg was astute enough to point out that this gives off early DeLillo vibes), and b) a lot of spinning on narrative wheels. Remainder is a novel that knows exactly what it wants to do and doesn't really stray off the beaten path, but there's a part of me that feels I read the whole novel once I read the first half. Sure, the reenactments get bigger and riskier, and it retains its good qualities up until the end, and it's not as though this particular character was going to develop into a full and self-aware human being or find his much-desired authenticity in a more productive way or anything of the sort. Yet I don't know, I just wanted to shake the thing by the shoulders and yell \"MOVE, DAMMIT! YOUR CIRCLES ARE GETTING BIGGER, BUT THEY'RE STILL CIRCLES!\" Count me as intrigued by the premise and entertained by the book, but other writers had better build on this if they want it to be the road to the future. ...more \"The Remainder\" won the Believer book award, and I thought that gave it a good shot towards being something I would like. Boy, I was wrong. This book is awful. It starts out okay, but then it just devolves into the most painful exercise in futility - which may be the point, but God, this book made me mad. The unnamed narrator has come into a huge sum of money by being hit by a flying object. He barely remembers the accident but now he has an ungodly amount of money and nothing to do with it. He a \"The Remainder\" won the Believer book award, and I thought that gave it a good shot towards being something I would like. Boy, I was wrong. This book is awful. It starts out okay, but then it just devolves into the most painful exercise in futility - which may be the point, but God, this book made me mad. The unnamed narrator has come into a huge sum of money by being hit by a flying object. He barely remembers the accident but now he has an ungodly amount of money and nothing to do with it. He also doesn't feel anything. He hires a guy to help him reenact events of his life, over and over and over again, with the hope that it will help him feel again. His life becomes a giant piece of performance art, and eventually his obsessions become more and more brutal, leading to the climax, which is totally, woefully predictable in my opinion. I wanted to like this book. I think maybe I should have liked this book. I HATED THIS BOOK. ...more Tom McCarthy\u2019s Remainder is a stunner, a breathless plunge into one man\u2019s obsession. For anyone who thought existentialism as a genre of fiction tapped out about the middle of last century is in for a treat. This is a very modern take and a story that invites a wonderful bounty of interpretation and handily ducks each of them. A critique of a society where we are increasingly at the mercy of the whims of the rich, on our need for authenticity, locating meaning in the events our urban surrounding Tom McCarthy\u2019s Remainder is a stunner, a breathless plunge into one man\u2019s obsession. For anyone who thought existentialism as a genre of fiction tapped out about the middle of last century is in for a treat. This is a very modern take and a story that invites a wonderful bounty of interpretation and handily ducks each of them. A critique of a society where we are increasingly at the mercy of the whims of the rich, on our need for authenticity, locating meaning in the events our urban surroundings, what is art, and what is reality. I of course make this book sound boring by asking these questions, and this book is anything but. The logic of this book takes over and if you can stand it (or stand to stop reading) you will find terrifying, funny, and slightly deranged book that will cast the world in slightly tilted light. ...more I think what I liked about this book isn't what most people would like... But I loved reading about how a very efficient person carried out the very complicated and difficult tasks that were required of him by a crazy person with too much money. It was very deeply satisfying, on a sort of molecular librarian level. I think this would make a great book club book, because it's not too long and is pretty easy to read, and the weirdness of it would give you a lot to discuss. Remainder is perhaps the most deeply disturbing book I've ever read. I kept having to put it down hoping the plot would change course. Sometimes it did. It didn't really reach the point of no return until toward the end, at which point I couldn't put it down. The writing is odd -- since the book is about patterns and sequences and reproductions, the writing is kind of flat, like the affect of the character, but it is completely successful at achieving this tone. It's kind of like Ben Marcus but Remainder is perhaps the most deeply disturbing book I've ever read. I kept having to put it down hoping the plot would change course. Sometimes it did. It didn't really reach the point of no return until toward the end, at which point I couldn't put it down. The writing is odd -- since the book is about patterns and sequences and reproductions, the writing is kind of flat, like the affect of the character, but it is completely successful at achieving this tone. It's kind of like Ben Marcus but your head won't explode trying to understand every paragraph you slog through. This book is not a slog. Really, this is a book about desire, fear, control, and identity, or to be more precise, the desire to control everything because you fear you have no identity. It's about money, and what would happen if your access to it was unlimited; and the future, and how you would approach it if you had no past. It's about authenticity, and a real, literal search for it, rather than the \"search for authenticity\" we all blunder our way toward when we try to decide who we are and what we want to do to be that person. Also, I don't think the word \"fate\" ever appears in the book, but that's also what it's about. Who pulls the strings? What if it's you? What would you do with that responsibility. The funniest line in the book -- maybe the only really funny line -- is when the main character stops himself from doing something because \"I didn't want to be self-indulgent.\" This book consists of one man being able to buy any form of self-indulgence he wants, and because that self-indulgence takes the form of hiring limitless people to recreate situations and spaces and actions that the main character wants to see or inhabit, over and over again, it's about the most self-indulgent thing in the world. More than drugs, more than paid sex, more than psychoanalysis. Read the synopsis, but don't read any reviews with spoilers. This book blew my mind. ...more A large portion of this book is very good. The writing style could be construed as antiseptic, but I prefer to go only so far as clean and crisp. And the central concept, restoring authenticity (not a great way of articulating it, granted), is very interesting and well treated, with tons of really great scenes wherein the narrator spends a bunch of money to recreate things he's done a thousand times (just read it) -- until the end, which really sucks. It feels as if McCarthy wrote himself into a A large portion of this book is very good. The writing style could be construed as antiseptic, but I prefer to go only so far as clean and crisp. And the central concept, restoring authenticity (not a great way of articulating it, granted), is very interesting and well treated, with tons of really great scenes wherein the narrator spends a bunch of money to recreate things he's done a thousand times (just read it) -- until the end, which really sucks. It feels as if McCarthy wrote himself into a corner he couldn't get out of. Which, surprisingly, didn't affect the overall quality of the book, because it's so not about character or plot that you couldn't possibly really care what happens to the narrator at the end anyway. That alone should tell you whether you want to read it or not. ...more Guy in an accident hits it rich, but with his mind changed by the incident, he sets out to explore what it means to be alive and in the moment. He pays outrageous sums to recreate memories down to the most elaborate trivial detail. He seeks to control the tiniest of minutia, and eventually this leads to an inevitable tragic conclusion. Auster-like at times- this is one of the more bizarre meditations on happiness that you are likely to read. Is the conclusion a cop out? Or does it speak to the i Guy in an accident hits it rich, but with his mind changed by the incident, he sets out to explore what it means to be alive and in the moment. He pays outrageous sums to recreate memories down to the most elaborate trivial detail. He seeks to control the tiniest of minutia, and eventually this leads to an inevitable tragic conclusion. Auster-like at times- this is one of the more bizarre meditations on happiness that you are likely to read. Is the conclusion a cop out? Or does it speak to the inevitable circumstance of life? Worth a read and a think. ...more A tough but rewarding read. Not tough as in dense -- the book is straightforward and compact -- but tough because it plunges you into the mind of a neurotic, obsessive, disaffected man as he relentlessly examines the deepest extremes of mundanity in an attempt to feel \"real\". A virtual tour of perspectives on the mind's relation to the world, I would love to discuss this with a philosophy professor, though in tone it felt closest to Camus' The Stranger . Lots to reflect on for yourself based on h A tough but rewarding read. Not tough as in dense -- the book is straightforward and compact -- but tough because it plunges you into the mind of a neurotic, obsessive, disaffected man as he relentlessly examines the deepest extremes of mundanity in an attempt to feel \"real\". A virtual tour of perspectives on the mind's relation to the world, I would love to discuss this with a philosophy professor, though in tone it felt closest to Camus' The Stranger . Lots to reflect on for yourself based on how much (or how little) you relate to his pursuit of some kind of truth. ...more Tom McCarthy \u00e7ok acayip bir yazar. C'yi de okudu\u011fum i\u00e7in buldu\u011fu konular\u0131n ilgin\u00e7li\u011finden \u00e7ok \u00e7al\u0131\u015fkanl\u0131\u011f\u0131, i\u015fledi\u011fi konuyu en derinine kadar ara\u015ft\u0131rmas\u0131 beni cezbediyor diyebilirim. B\u00fcy\u00fck bir kazadan sonra \"ger\u00e7ek\" olabilmeyi hissetmek ad\u0131na anlat\u0131c\u0131n\u0131n yapt\u0131klar\u0131 hem inan\u0131lmaz hem de son derece anlaml\u0131. Yazar bizi bu ikilemde sallan\u0131rken b\u0131rak\u0131yor. Ayr\u0131nt\u0131n\u0131n kitab\u0131. I was inclined, due to a blurb on the jacket describing the book as a work of \"existential horror\", to read it as an allegory. I'm pretty sure that this was what the author was going for. In my opinion though, the author fell into every trap that makes writing that sort of book difficult. The main character is a sort of \"man without qualities\" which is a result of his condition (an accident in which something falls from the sky onto him and places him in a comatose state, which he wakes from w I was inclined, due to a blurb on the jacket describing the book as a work of \"existential horror\", to read it as an allegory. I'm pretty sure that this was what the author was going for. In my opinion though, the author fell into every trap that makes writing that sort of book difficult. The main character is a sort of \"man without qualities\" which is a result of his condition (an accident in which something falls from the sky onto him and places him in a comatose state, which he wakes from with a case of amnesia), but makes him come across as very dull and unsympathetic. I don't feel that a character that is supposed to represent the basic existential condition of the human individual has to come across this way, and it prevented me from any attempt at empathy with the character even though I understood that his experience was supposed to represent my own on some level. The protagonist finds himself extremely rich as the result of a settlement and becomes obsessed with recreating scenes that he has vague memories of in a quest to force into existence settings that will make him feel \"real.\" This seemed to be a metaphor for tendency people have to use memory as a way to distort reality by placing undue significance on arbitrary points in time, but the author failed to do this in a way that would allow the plot(in as much as there was one) to develop in a compelling way. The character uses his money to create an entire apartment building, an experience he had at an auto shop and other scenes, going about it in a way that isn't plausible in any realistic sense and didn't have any value for me other than as a fairly heavy-handed metaphor for how fleeting experiences are as points in constantly fluid time. As the book progresses the character becomes more and more obsessive and morally bankrupt, but there is never any kind of psychological/ sociological/ political subtext that makes sense of this behavior. I suppose this is one of those books that is supposed to \"mess with the mind\" of the reader, and to create the sort of disorientation that is parallel to that which is occurring in the mind of the main character. To me though, it was just a fairly dull story about a petty, jerky kind of guy who for no particular reason becomes completely amoral as a side effect of his obsessive quest to recreate a vague memory he has of being in an apartment with the smell of chicken liver in the air, which he does for no particular reason other than a \"tingling\" sensation he gets when he is in the recreation. Heavy, man...if that's your idea of a good book. ...more Baffled by the praise for this book, by so many intelligent readers. Normally this would prompt a hesitation and reassessment but this is one of those books that makes me more irritated the more I think of it. I was positioned on the wrong foot by Zadie Smith's glowing suggestion that the way forward from realist novels lies with McCarthy's book ( http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archi... ). Yes, the narrative is unique. A man, newly rich, newly absent his memories, buys scrupulous reconstructions o Baffled by the praise for this book, by so many intelligent readers. Normally this would prompt a hesitation and reassessment but this is one of those books that makes me more irritated the more I think of it. I was positioned on the wrong foot by Zadie Smith's glowing suggestion that the way forward from realist novels lies with McCarthy's book ( http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archi... ). Yes, the narrative is unique. A man, newly rich, newly absent his memories, buys scrupulous reconstructions of supremely ordinary events. Okay, so there's this metanarrative thing, at least a nod to how we fashion stories and importance to our existence. It's just... who gives a crap. Certainly not the protagonist, who is bland and dull. McCarthy generates a frission where we're embarrassed for those paid to reenact for him, and shocked at how he never reacts to those slain nearby. The guy he hires to handle these productions is nicely wry about it, nicely mercenary. There's nice hints early on that we're not in real time at all, but our dude has died or is dying in the hospital. But when we expect some turn back to true experience -- our hero is not allowed to mention what accident hurt him, even if he remembered -- it's tossed aside for a sequence of these reenactments. The novel's just about trying to find authenticity in the world, one of the most boring considerations to ever inflate our modern city dweller-cum-intellectual's head. We don't get a nod to how art and authenticity mix with money. We don't get an outside indication of how this is impacting anyone around him. We don't get anything about law, or power, or really about memory. Or the petty obsessions of the newly rich. Or any number of other topics that might have been enriching. Why the title, Remainder? Instead we get this flat, affectless prose. The kind where we, as the readers, are expected to find -- nay, wander in, aimlessly to find somewhere in the waste areas between flat, boring words -- just some purpose for this book beyond an episodic trick? In the end, it's not a horrible book, but one I feel is destined for righteously, rigorously earned obscurity. It has this Robbes-Grillet feel without the wit or weirdness. As others have said, it feels like a slim DeLillo novel, shorn of caustic observation and (again) wit. It feels like a barren subgenre to me, like Charlie Kaufman's scripts -- novels and movies about building novels (or stories) and movies (or plays). Yawn. There's too much going on in the world for this nonsense. ...more I found this book initially annoying, as McCarthy's prose style almost dies on the page. You could debate however this level of un-lyricism serves the protagonist's narration. Regardless: as this book has stayed with me for over a year, I have to give it five stars. This book is wholly original, one of the most avant-garde of the last decade. Does cinema change the way we process information? Given limitless wealth, what would you do? Is utter selfishness destructive, or enlightening? What is th I found this book initially annoying, as McCarthy's prose style almost dies on the page. You could debate however this level of un-lyricism serves the protagonist's narration. Regardless: as this book has stayed with me for over a year, I have to give it five stars. This book is wholly original, one of the most avant-garde of the last decade. Does cinema change the way we process information? Given limitless wealth, what would you do? Is utter selfishness destructive, or enlightening? What is the function of aesthetics? The book contemplates these questions in a dizzyingly consistent formal manner. If there's a musical corollary, I would say William Basinski's work with recorded tape loops. If you repeat something beautiful again and again and again, it begins to change in the repetition. Not only is there new meaning, but the nature of individuation changes. Anyway. The book is brilliant. ...more Whoa. When this kiss is over, it will start again It will not be any different, it will be exactly the same It's hard to imagine that nothing at all Could be so exciting, could be this much fun - Talking Heads, \"Heaven\" The thrust of David Byrne's odd tribute to the afterlife is the banality of the pleasures that heaven offers. As we're led to believe it, heaven is a place where our most milquetoast pleasures are run again and again -- a kiss, a fun party -- but that it's yet, somehow, still fun. The refra When this kiss is over, it will start again It will not be any different, it will be exactly the same It's hard to imagine that nothing at all Could be so exciting, could be this much fun - Talking Heads, \"Heaven\" The thrust of David Byrne's odd tribute to the afterlife is the banality of the pleasures that heaven offers. As we're led to believe it, heaven is a place where our most milquetoast pleasures are run again and again -- a kiss, a fun party -- but that it's yet, somehow, still fun. The refrain, \"Heaven/heaven is a place/a place where nothing/nothing ever happens\" isn't speaking of a void but of a colloquial use of \"nothing ever happens,\" with the underlying meaning being nothing traumatic, nothing significant, nothing new. At the same time, the lyric above kept coming in my mind while I read this wholly strange debut novel by Tom McCarthy, the founder of a surreal-esque secret cabal called the International Necronautical Society. As the story goes, Remainder was rejected by every possible publisher before being picked up and released in an art gallery edition, somehow eventually reaching mass acceptance and an eventual printing by Vintage. Its themes are odd and its cycle a bit disorienting, but it's hardly as experimental as all that. What kept them away the first time, and what changed in the interim? This was a book I read with my book-club-of-two, the League of Unreliable Narrators, with my friend Monique. This was one of her choices, a book she read years ago and was coming to as a re-read, while I jumped in head first for my first go-round. The story begins with our unnamed narrator, soon after he has been hit by an object that has fallen from the sky. Whatever it was, it was sufficient to render his body partly paralyzed and his mind and memories a pack of unshuffled cards on the floor. He knows that he has memories, but he doesn't know if they're real, imagined, or things he remembers from movies. While going through a long and painful rehabilitation process, during which a doctor requires him to learn and endlessly re-create the 27 individual flexes of muscle and brain coordination required to pick up a carrot and bring it to his mouth, the narrator receives a settlement (referred to as The Settlement) of a considerable amount of money -- 8.5 million Pounds. It goes well beyond the notions of giving him enough to live on without having to work into a life of automatic leisure. It also suggests outside culpability in some truly large-scale malfeasance, something that the powers that be would rather not have revealed and will throw big money at to make it go away. The money, as it turns out, is something of a MacGuffin -- its purpose is not disclosed other than to remove the barrier of need from the narrator. After going through an Ikiru -like revelation that nothing he likes to do costs that much money, our protagonist starts fixating one specific memories, possibly from his life. While listlessly hiding at a friend's party, he gets obsessed with a crack on the wall of the bathroom. It's EXACTLY the same crack as one on the bathroom wall of a place he lived in France. It was a six-floor apartment. Across the way, he saw cats walking around on the roof of the next apartment. Below, he smelled liver frying, and below that, a man practicing the piano. Such a strong memory! Remembering it gives him a rush of good feeling, a tingling in his paralyzed side. And then, suddenly, he realizes that he knows what he wants to do with the money... Remainder hits the notion of absolute freedom with a new angle. The prevailing notion in fiction is that people with unchecked power and money tend toward two impulses -- gratification and revenge. Either they dissolve into a cloud of cocaine and hookers or they get too jazzed on punishing those that caused them pain. Here, we see a third way out of the maze. In an attempt to once again feel \"authentic\" in his own body (rather than painfully, carefully, and self-consciously mapping the 27 muscle flexes needed to lift a damn carrot), our narrator decides to re-create his perfect moments. He hires an administrative staff and has them seek out an apartment complex, one that feels like the one he sort of remembers. He finds one in Brixton, and guess what? The apartment next door has the same type of roof, perfect for seeding with cats! He hires an actor to fry liver all day, dozens of pounds of it (so much, in fact, that the stove's vent becomes choked with grease), another to practice the piano, and others to repair a motocycle and stand around in the lobby (people in his memory whose faces he can't remember are asked to wear hockey masks rather than corrupt the simulation with new data). The apartment is built exactingly to scale. Through an elaborate system of walkie-talkies, the narrator's assistant, Naz, is able to \"cue\" the woman below to fry liver, or take her trash out just as the man descends the staircase. The piano sounds just like he remembers -- when an error is made, the man stops, practices slower, and then continues. It all feels so good. So good in fact, that he wants to run it again. And again. And again. And again. And again. And again. And again, but this time at half speed. And slower. And slower. And that's just the first half of the book. McCarthy is exceedingly precise in his mapping of this specific obsession. We're told early on that a screening of Scorsese's Mean Streets sets off this urge for authenticity. He sees DeNiro -- a hugely artificial, studied actor who nonetheless achieves an illusion of cinematic naturalness through significant work and study -- as an avatar of natural behavior. As he feels perfect moments go by, moments in which he doesn't need to calculate, but can just LIVE, he goes back to them, again and again, asking Naz to set up new re-creations while the old ones continue to run. In his dictatorial manner, he even has re-enactors running scenes over and over while he's away from the re-enactment site, just because it feels good to know that it's happening somewhere. Soon, miniature dioramas get involved, and before we know it, re-enactments are happening two and three levels deep. In a weird way, McCarthy's test case reminds me of a decidedly modern take on DeSade. Most folks know The 120 Days of Sodom as a record of literary depravity, a laundry list of unspeakable acts inflicted by a group of libertines on their unwilling participants. It's also a look at the places ultimate freedom will take the mind. McCarthy's take is significantly less torturous, but it comes from the same human wellspring. Given unlimited resources and no need to regard other human life, will we spend our waking days re-creating our own perfect moments? For some, this must seem quite appealing. It also speaks to a certain itch that people who live in their minds must have a lot. The narrator observes people going through their days, acting so naturally, as though they don't have to think about all these complex motions at all. In his world, every action is second-guessed and gainsayed until there's absolutely no spontaneity left. In a life where impulsive action is no longer possible, the only thing left is to memorialize days gone by, days when one could just do things without thinking about them. The book's finale, rather than documenting endless recursions into tinier and tinier re-enactments, instead goes for a Big Finish (I wasn't sure if I liked it at first, but I tested the results in my trusty book brain, and it came back as worthwhile) that contains considerable human toll. At the same time, external forces that begin to creep in suggest that the world we're seeing might not be as real as it seems. I'm dead certain that multiple re-reads will no doubt open dozens of seeded hints (there are multiple references to 8s and 8s with horizontal lines protruding from them, in the style of an 8 and a half) that suggest other interpretations. The story is low on characterization (after introducing the fact that the protagonist has friends, it immediately ditches them in favor of focusing on the re-enactments) but high on invention, and works in the realm of both intellect and strong emotion. Reading the book, I thought of all the things I spend significant time and emotion on, things meant to provide some measure of comfort or satisfaction in this life. Nearly all them them involve money and outside assistance. Many of them attempt to re-create a past that isn't mine. Hmm. If the endless party and endless kiss and endless endlessness that's praised/parodied in the Talking Heads song comes off as a bit dull or unfulfilling, they also feel very satisfying on an internal level, like scratching an itch not on the skin, but inside a vital organ. It's not about the thrill of the moment or living in that moment, but the refinement of that moment into its most perfect distillate. What is it about that perfect kiss? Is it the contact of the lips, the way she turned one eye to you as she went in, the way you both turned your heads? Is it the act, or the moments? And after the 20,000th, 30,000th iteration of that kiss, what are you watching for? Surely not the spark? Why not, then, the angle of approach? And if that's where the magic is, why not slow that down? Slower. Slooooooower..... There. That's it. Perfect. Freeze. ...more What a strange book! I had read a couple of reviews and thought I knew where this was going. Wrong. The ending is even stranger than I predicted, and less tidy. The protagonist has been in an unspecified accident. Unspecified both because his memory of the event is sketchy and because of the Settlement. He has been compensated for his severe injuries to the tune of 8.5 million pounds. What will he do with this fortune? The suggestions his friends make (charity, or coke and whores) don't move him What a strange book! I had read a couple of reviews and thought I knew where this was going. Wrong. The ending is even stranger than I predicted, and less tidy. The protagonist has been in an unspecified accident. Unspecified both because his memory of the event is sketchy and because of the Settlement. He has been compensated for his severe injuries to the tune of 8.5 million pounds. What will he do with this fortune? The suggestions his friends make (charity, or coke and whores) don't move him. But then during a party he finds his purpose. He is hiding out in the bathroom when he becomes transfixed by a crack on the wall. The particular shape of the crack stirs a memory--or maybe it's just a vision. It's a similar crack in a similar but not identical bathroom, in a building with marble floors of a particular pattern, and an elderly woman on the floor below who is frying liver (the smell rises up) and a man two floors down who is practicing piano, and out the window is a view of the roof of a nearby building, a red roof populated by black cats. The protagonist has been troubled by a certain duplicity in all his actions. He has had to learn to move again, and now all of his actions are prefigured by consciousness--I must move my hand like this in order to do this, and now I am doing it. He wants to act fluidly, to merge consciousness with action, to find authenticity. And he believes he remembers moving fluidly through the kitchen of his apartment (was it his?) in this building (when did he live there?). He will use his fortune to recreate this building. It will be staffed with re-enactors--people playing the roles of the liver-frying woman, the piano-playing man, etc. He finds the right facilitator for this monumental project in Nas, a fixer of the highest order who delights in flow charts and diagrams, whose brain whirs like a computer each time he's asked to do something more outre. The building is refurbished and staffed. There are phalanxes of staff--from the front-line re-enactors to the costumers and props people, the architect who builds scale models, caterers and back-ups for back-ups, on and on. The building is just the beginning. Other re-enactments are launched, and while the quest makes sense to the protagonist, and while Nas delights in the complexities, the purpose behind the project becomes more and more elusive for the reader. What does the protagonist hope to find in a mundane tyre repair re-enactment? Why must it be run 24 hours a day even in his absence? What attracts him to one random crime over another? What, beyond trouble, can be gained from the pre-enactment of a faux bank robbery? As soon as the re-enactments cross into crime, or perhaps even sooner, you sense that this will all go horribly wrong. I thought that perhaps the re-enactments would finally lead to a re-enactment of whatever accident originally set the chain in motion--there are many references in the book to infinity and to loops. But the protagonist finds another infinite loop--a plane circling on the runway, first moving out as though to take off, and then back, and then out again. Paused between escape and capture after the bank robbery \"re-enactment\" does, in fact, go horribly, murderously wrong. So what the hell is this all about? [Edited to add: It occurs to me in 2010 that this book and the movie Synechdoche, New York would make a good pairing.] ...more<---C>Tom McCarthy</---C>", "Title": "Remainder"},
