{"Comments": "Lehane is a wonderful writer. Mystic River was his opus magnus, and his Boston hard-boileds are quite good. This novel is his attempt to break out into a larger literary world. Set in the period around World War I, Lehane offers us a sense of the times, and they are not pretty. The two primary characters are Danny Coughlin,<---M> a Boston cop in a long tradition</---M>, and Luther Laurence, a poor black. There is much in here about the condition of the working man, and it is startling, even to someone who ha Lehane is a wonderful writer. Mystic River was his opus magnus, and his Boston hard-boileds are quite good. This novel is his attempt to break out into a larger literary world. Set in the period around World War I, Lehane offers us a sense of the times, and they are not pretty. The two primary characters are Danny Coughlin, a Boston cop in a long tradition, and Luther Laurence, a poor black. There is much in here about the condition of the working man, and it is startling, even to someone who has read quite a bit about the struggle of labor for decent treatment. Things were much worse than I\u2019d imagined. This is a sweeping effort, as Lehane projects himself through a Dickensian lens, covering geography from Boston to Ohio to Tulsa, from <---C>Babe Ruth</---C> to the governor of Massachusetts to the lowliest criminal element. Lehane has done his homework and offers considerable information about the time.<---F> Two incidents stand out</---F>. One was the collapse of a vast molasses container that resulted in a flood of the stuff with waves 15 feet high. The other, his burning of Atlanta scene, is how the citizens of Boston react to the police strike. He offers us as well a sense of the political turmoil of the time, the Palmer raids, the fear of Bolshevists, anarchists and immigrants, and how those fears were stoked for political gain. Sound familiar? Lehane is particularly eager not to present his book as being political, and there are many readers who will not see what is right in front of them, but this novel keeps a sharp eye on contemporary events. This is not Lehane\u2019 best book. That would be Mystic River . But it is an ambitious one. Coming in at slightly over 700 fast-reading pages, it is by far his largest. And he writes about a much wider swath of humanity than he has before. I would say that overall he succeeds in the attempt. This is a very good book, engaging, with believable, well-drawn characters, insight into the complexities of familial relationships, sensitivity to the cultural environment of that age, and with a critical, politically aware eye. There are several scenes in which Babe Ruth figures. While these scenes are fine, with one being outstanding (<---B>the contract negotiation</---B>), they could have been omitted without damaging the overall story. Lehane is an excellent story teller and he plies his trade here quite well. Where the book falls short of the rare air occupied by books like Serena is in his hesitation to incorporate grander imagery into his work. He tells his story, with many intense scenes, many interesting and memorable events, but not the metaphorical, mythological ear of a Ron Rash or a Michael Ondaatje. This keeps the reins on his work. I expect that in future the reins will be loosened and he will produce work in this new Dickensian vein that might be remembered as long as the work of his hero. This is a terrific book. Read it. ============================= EXTRA STUFF Other books in the Coughlin series ----- Live By Night - #2 ----- World Gone By - #3 Links to the author\u2019s personal , Twitter and FB pages November 26, 2016 - Solving a Mystery Behind the Deadly \u2018Tsunami of Molasses\u2019 of 1919 , by Eric McCann, looks into the science behind the real-like Molasses tsunami that holds a significant place in <+++>The Given Day</+++> For more reviews of books by <---A>Dennis Lehane</---A>, I have an entire shelf of them ...more The size of this novel equates to the size of this story: Mammoth. Huge. Epic. Lehane sweeps us into the world at the end of ww1 in Boston. It's a time of unrest, social uprising, anarchists, revolutionaries, immigrants, plagues and violence. It's the story of 2 men: One white - an Irish cop; one black, a house worker. Both struggling to define themselves during a turbulent time in history leading up to a given day, where change is inevitable. The stories are told In contrasting parallel with ric The size of this novel equates to the size of this story: Mammoth. Huge. Epic. Lehane sweeps us into the world at the end of ww1 in Boston. It's a time of unrest, social uprising, anarchists, revolutionaries, immigrants, plagues and violence. It's the story of 2 men: One white - an Irish cop; one black, a house worker. Both struggling to define themselves during a turbulent time in history leading up to a given day, where change is inevitable. The stories are told In contrasting parallel with richly flawed characters and a dense story of these lives converging. This is a pint drinking warm comfort food kind of read. If you are looking for a quick fix, this isn't it. The characters are slowly developed with historical significance of the city of Boston at the forefront. A compelling and descriptive story of a country fighting its own internal war. An engaging read 4.25* it could have been shortened slightly as the story was interspersed w a Babe Ruth story which would not have impacted the plot in anyway. ...more October/2015 Buddy read with Stepheny- the kidnapper with the heart of...well...lots of people probably , Jeff- the whiny prisoner with a blue crayon , and Jess- the not so innocent bystander, and two new comers (who incidentally finished waaaaaay before me) Steve and Carmen Extra Extra read all about it! [image error] THE GIVEN DAY is a historical novel set in Boston- Massachusetts and Tulsa- Oklahoma. Aiden \"Danny\" Coughlin, an Irish Boston Police patrolman whose father -Thomas- is an influential d October/2015 Buddy read with Stepheny- the kidnapper with the heart of...well...lots of people probably , Jeff- the whiny prisoner with a blue crayon , and Jess- the not so innocent bystander, and two new comers (who incidentally finished waaaaaay before me) Steve and Carmen Extra Extra read all about it! [image error] THE GIVEN DAY is a historical novel set in Boston- Massachusetts and Tulsa- Oklahoma. Aiden \"Danny\" Coughlin, an Irish Boston Police patrolman whose father -Thomas- is an influential detective and captain in the police department, and Luther Laurence- a black amateur baseball player from Columbus, Ohio...are the two main characters. Babe Ruth- appears in the prologue and various chapters within the novel. [image error] WWI is over and union organizing activities are happening across the country. The year is 1918 and the Boston patrolmen have not been given a raise since 1905. They have been promised raises after the war is over...but as of yet- that promise has not been kept...and they are living way below the poverty level. Things are not going well in Boston- and Luther- who has recently moved here with hopes of a new start, and Danny- both have their hands full- dealing with corrupt cops and politicians who manipulate the system at every turn. [image error] ...In a country they no longer recognize. [image error] I loved THE GIVEN DAY!!!....even though it took me a long time to read it. It was one of those \"right book, wrong time moments....but I am soooo looking forward to the next in the series....just not right now. ...more Imagine an America where the wealthy people in power rule a system in which they are free to reap enormous profits through unregulated businesses while every privilege that society can offer is given to them. These titans of capitalism underpay their employees for hard labor that lasts at least twelve hours a day in unsafe conditions with no overtime or benefits. If any of these workers dare complain, then the government will happily label them as dangerous socialist terrorists who threaten the Imagine an America where the wealthy people in power rule a system in which they are free to reap enormous profits through unregulated businesses while every privilege that society can offer is given to them. These titans of capitalism underpay their employees for hard labor that lasts at least twelve hours a day in unsafe conditions with no overtime or benefits. If any of these workers dare complain, then the government will happily label them as dangerous socialist terrorists who threaten the American way of life and do anything within its power to crush any attempts to organize the labor. Ah, it\u2019s enough to make a right wing conservative weep with joy. Danny Coughlin is a Boston patrolman at the end of World War I. Since his father is a legendary and politically connected police captain, it seems like Danny\u2019s got a bright future ahead of him with the department. Danny\u2019s father and some other power brokers offer him a chance to make detective by going undercover in various subversive groups including the social club of the Boston Police Department which is looking more and more like a union. Danny doesn\u2019t want to cause problems for his fellow police men who have been shafted by the city. Working a minimum of almost 80 hours a week at a wage below the poverty level and forced to pay for their own uniforms and equipment, the men of the BPD literally can\u2019t feed their families but when their grievances are brought up, the men in charge insist that the cops are vital government personnel and therefore can\u2019t strike so they can safely be told to go fuck themselves. When the men complain about this treatment, the politicians are shocked and insist that anybody who wants to make enough money to buy his kids some food is nothing but a damn Bolshevik. Danny eventually finds an actual danger to the public in the form of a bomb happy anarchist, but his superiors continue to be more concerned with those who might force change on the economic system. Meanwhile, a black man named Luther Laurence, who is on the run following a messy incident with a local kingpin in Tulsa, is trying to lay low in Boston and ends up working for Danny\u2019s family. Luther has a hard enough time just working around the racism that runs through all aspects of life, but things get worse when he runs afoul of a psychotic police crony of Danny\u2019s father. Danny and Luther eventually strike up a friendship that defies the odds as they get caught up in the conflict between the old world and the changes being forced upon it. Lehane\u2019s books have often a crime oriented social component to it, and it seems like his time working for HBO\u2019s The Wire encouraged him to add a depth and complexity to his work in this historical fiction. This is the story of a bygone era, but it seems familiar since the tactics employed by the powerful are still in use. One of their favorites is getting half of the working class to turn on itself by claiming that anyone who questions the fairness of the economic system is an American hating socialist as well as probably being a secret terrorist. Meet the new boss, same as the old boss. The only parts that really didn\u2019t work for me were the interludes with Babe Ruth. It seems like Lehane was trying to point out some things regarding a common guy who could barely read becoming rich and famous as a city ripped itself apart while refusing to pay its police a living wage, but those segments just didn\u2019t seem to sync up with the other action. Still, it\u2019s one of Lehane\u2019s best and most ambitious books yet. ...more It\u2019s interesting to see an author branch out from his/her comfort zone and attempt to tackle a different genre. Here Dennis Lehane tries his hand at Historical Fiction and although not entirely a fiasco, the book falls far short of his usual compelling work. Centered on the labor unrest and Red Scare of 1918-19 in Boston, the book bites off more than it can chew and at over 700 pages feels bloated. To a lesser or greater degree, Lehane also references World War I, the Spanish Flu pandemic, race It\u2019s interesting to see an author branch out from his/her comfort zone and attempt to tackle a different genre. Here Dennis Lehane tries his hand at Historical Fiction and although not entirely a fiasco, the book falls far short of his usual compelling work. Centered on the labor unrest and Red Scare of 1918-19 in Boston, the book bites off more than it can chew and at over 700 pages feels bloated. To a lesser or greater degree, Lehane also references World War I, the Spanish Flu pandemic, race relations, Prohibition, the 1919 Black Sox scandal, and a Boston molasses factory explosion. A huge sticky tar-like sea of molasses everywhere, giving birth to the expression\u201d slow as molasses\u201d. Really? That's where the expression originated? *shrugs shoulders* I guess. Lehane creates fictionalized events from the life of Babe Ruth as a narrative framing device and these are some of the best chapters. The book initially starts off alternating between the trials and tribulations of Luther Lawrence, an African-American and Danny Coughlin, a Boston policeman. Lehane uses Lawrence\u2019s chapters to illustrate the plight of African-Americans, while Coughlin\u2019s chapters are used to bring the story to the climactic police strike, examining as much of the times as Lehane can squeeze in along the way. Even the narrative structure breaks down as Lawrence\u2019s chapters, the ones with some of Lehane\u2019s traditional zing, become fewer and farther between and Lehane, late in the novel, even introduces other character centric chapters to muddy the flow even further. Of course, at some point Lawrence goes from Ohio via Oklahoma to Boston in order to become best pals with Danny. Charles Dickens would be proud. As with much historical fiction, real people, other than Babe Ruth, are pigeon-holed into the story: J. Edgar Hoover, Eugene O\u2019Neill, Jack Reed, and Calvin Coolidge (view spoiler) [who gets punched in the face, twice (hide spoiler) ] . Keep cool with Coolidge! I love most of the characters, but Lehane cuts them adrift and they almost drown in a sea of history. If you're expecting Kenzie-Gennaro level intensity, it isn't here. This was a Non-Crunchy Pantless buddy read on the side with Steve, Carmen, Jess, Delee and that banshee, Stepheny. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more <+++>The Given Day</+++> is the tale of two men, Danny Coughlin and Luther Laurence, and their families, set against the backdrop of pre-prohibition Boston. Yeah, I know that didn't really say much but it's hard to write a teaser for a 700 page historical novel. As I understand it, this was Dennis Lehane's return to the novel world after five years of doing other things, mostly writing for The Wire. And he crammed every thought he may have had in about Boston in the early 20th Century in those five years int The Given Day is the tale of two men, Danny Coughlin and Luther Laurence, and their families, set against the backdrop of pre-prohibition Boston. Yeah, I know that didn't really say much but it's hard to write a teaser for a 700 page historical novel. As I understand it, this was Dennis Lehane's return to the novel world after five years of doing other things, mostly writing for The Wire. And he crammed every thought he may have had in about Boston in the early 20th Century in those five years into this book. Danny Coughlin is a cop working hellish hours, almost 100 hours a week, with the Boston PD, following in the footsteps of his cop father. He's conflicted about his feelings for Nora, his family's housekeeper, and is something of a black sheep. When his father comes asking for help rooting out Boleshivik cells in Boston, how can he say no? Luther Laurence, who once played an impromptu baseball game with Babe Ruth, goes from Columbus to Tulsa, and heads to Boston to escape some trouble and winds up working for Danny's father and getting under the thump of another cop, Edward McKenna, racist extraordinaire. Danny and Luther drive the book, living through historical events like the Spanish Influenza epidemic and the Boston Molasses Explosion, while dealing with their conflicts with their respective families. For the most part, it's a pretty gripping read. The political climate of Boston circa 1920 was a spectacle to behold: downtrodden blacks, unions rising up to protest horrible pay and working conditions, communists lurking in the shadows, and the old guard struggling to hold everything together and maintain the status quo. The supporting cast is a diverse and colorful bunch. Ed McKenna is despicable but you get the feeling he's doing what he thinks is right, which makes him that much more horrible. Danny's father and brother are also conflicted characters. I also really liked the friendship between Luther and Nora. The entire cast goes through the meat grinder so many times they look like ham salad by the end of the book. While the ending is largely happy, it's not a happily ever after sort of thing. More like a \"we're lucky to be alive\" sort of thing. Like I said, it was a really good read but I felt like LeHane was trying to take on too much at times. There was a little too much going on and also it felt like LeHane did a ton of research and was trying to get the most of out his nickel with it. Cutting 100 pages out of this beast wouldn't have hurt it. Also, apart from the initial baseball game with Luther, I thought the Babe Ruth parts were pretty unnecessary. This one is right on the 3/4 line. I guess I'm going to call it a 3.5. ...more He felt a hopelessness that had refused to leave him since he'd woken on the basement floor of Salutation Street. It wasn't just Salutation (though that would play a large role in his thoughts for the rest of his life), it was the world. The way it gathered speed with every passing day. The way the faster it went, the less it seemed to be steered by any rudder or guided by any constellation. The way it just continued to sail on, regardless of him. I hate the cover. It's so ugly. Couldn't they do He felt a hopelessness that had refused to leave him since he'd woken on the basement floor of Salutation Street. It wasn't just Salutation (though that would play a large role in his thoughts for the rest of his life), it was the world. The way it gathered speed with every passing day. The way the faster it went, the less it seemed to be steered by any rudder or guided by any constellation. The way it just continued to sail on, regardless of him. I hate the cover. It's so ugly. Couldn't they do any better than this? This book is about three people whose lives end up crossing paths. 1.) Babe Ruth. This is the smallest portion of the book, Ruth doesn't even get a third of the book. Perhaps 10%. While reading fictional accounts of real people always makes me uncomfortable, I have to say that Lehane has obviously really done his research on Ruth. I feel like this is a realistic and accurate portrayal, and a very well-written one. 2.) 45% of the book is dedicated to Danny Coughlin, a Boston police officer from a wealthy Irish-American family (his mom and dad were born in Ireland). His father is Chief of Police. Danny vacillates between being a man and being a piece of shit in this book. At times he is helping pregnant women and beating up rapists, saving immigrant women from arrest and standing up for his friends. At other times he is doing things like fantasizing about a woman's rape, and allowing a woman he loves to starve in extreme poverty. At 68% of the book, Danny finally starts shaping up to stand up and actually be a man full-time. It was such a relief to me after lecturing him non-stop for 480 pages of the novel. Actually, not non-stop, because half of the time I was lecturing our third protagonist 3.) Luther Laurence. He is a black man living in Ohio. He is in love with Lila, and then is surprised when she gets pregnant with his baby. She wants to move with her folks. But of course they are Christians and as soon as her aunt finds out she's pregnant, she and Luther have a shotgun wedding. Luther feels completely suffocated and constrained by marriage to his lovely, loving wife. Even though he has a great and well-paying job, he starts fucking around with a kingpin who runs drugs. When shit goes down as it always does when you are involved in the criminal underworld, he has to flee Tulsa. But his woman refuses to go with him, calling him on his piece-of-shit behavior. So he goes to Boston alone and that's where his path crosses with Danny. I won't say anything else because I don't want to spoil you. Luther is sometimes an excellent, badass man. Like Danny, he did things that made me cheer: he stands up for women who are in trouble. He defends his friends and is a loyal friend. He beats and kills men who need beating and killing. He shows mercy on people - sometimes too much mercy, in my opinion. He really, really has the potential to be an amazing man. BUT. Just like Danny, I was alternating between cheering him, swooning over his manliness and cursing him out for being a complete shitheel. He fucks up his life. He fucks up his woman's life and puts her in danger. He does some other bad things that I won't list here. (view spoiler) [But just like Danny, Luther shapes up to be a man - and a strong, badass one at that - by the end of the novel. (hide spoiler) ] They were a scary sight. Luther would admit that much as he caught their reflection in the window of Arthur Smalley's living room as they walked up the steps to his house - two wound-up colored men with masks that covered their noses and mouths, one of them with a row of black stitches sticking out of his jaw like a spiked fence. Time was, the look of them would have been enough to terror the money out of any God-fearing Greenwood man, but these days it didn't mean much; most folks were scary sights. Well, that's good, Carmen. That means Lehane is writing realistic and three-dimensional characters. Yes, I agree. The (male) characters ARE realistic and three-dimensional. As an added bonus, the book is 702 pages long, so you really get deep into their respective psyches and you get to know them very well. It's excellent. But I don't have to tell you how exhausted I am after 702 pages of lecturing men on how to act right. Jeez. This book is about men acting wrong and making poor decisions. There was no end to the yelling, shouting, and scolding I was doing. My voice is hoarse. WOMEN You might have noticed I said that the MALE characters were realistic and three-dimensional. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same for the women who are paragons of virtue, patience, hearth and home. The only woman who is not like this is a through-and-through villain, a femme fatale with seemingly no soul. Danny expresses bewilderment at this woman and her behavior. It was as if she'd had an overpowering need to remake her rage as flesh and blood, to be certain it would live on and pass down through the generations. This need (and 00000000 [name hidden to avoid spoilers], as a whole) was something he would never understand. Really? You don't understand this? She was sold to a brothel when she was 12. YOU KNOW THIS. Do you think you can possibly connect her being a sex slave since she was a child to her rage and her seditious behavior? Do you think that one might have to do with the other??!?! THINK, man. Use your head. Sadly, this never dawns on Danny and is never ever discussed in the books. One sentence is dedicated to the fact that she was a sex slave. 10 billion sentences are dedicated to her \"incomprehensible evil.\" No character puts together these two facts, Lehane NEVER gives her backstory besides this one fact that slipped out. It could have been FASCINATING if Lehane (who is a great character artist) developed a backstory for her or gave us a window into her reasoning and motives. BUT NO. I was really disappointed in Lehane on this front. Of the three \"main\" (really, they are side characters to the men) female characters dealt with in this book, two are angels and one is the devil. No nuance. No subtleties. The men are rich in flavor, detail, and character. The women - while beautifully described and given wonderful dialogue and personalities - are only allowed to be saints or sinners. BRUTAL HATRED I want you to know as a fair warning that Lehane pulls no punches in regards to the racism, misogyny, anti-Semitism, hatred of Italians, hatred of gay men, etc. etc. etc. that were a big part of America in 1919. Brace yourself. Because Luther is a black character, I found the racism against black people to be the hardest for me deal with in this novel. I literally had to put this down and stop reading for a while after Chapter 11 because I was getting too depressed. Luther is sneered at, beaten, spit on, betrayed, lied to, harassed, etc. etc. all the time, day after day, hour after hour by white people. It was completely devastating. Very powerful and effective writing on Lehane's part. As for women, there are a few rapes in this novel, but they either happen off-page or far in the past, so I was holding together okay. Nothing I had to DNF over. I really appreciated his delicate handling of sex crimes. Tons of slurs against Jewish people, Italians, fat people, gay men etc. etc. etc. but as none of those people were main characters or even side characters - it is all talk. But I'm telling you because it might be disturbing to some readers. Very offensive language is used to talk about these groups quite frequently. It's also a violent book. If you have no stomach for violence, perhaps this isn't you. It's not overly graphic. Lehane is NOT creating gratuitous, overly described violence here, but the violence does permeate almost every page. JOE ABERCROMBIE Dennis Lehane reminds me a lot of Joe Abercrombie. What? Carmen. They are so different. Abercrombie writes fantasy and Lehane is writing historical fiction here. With real-life characters such as Babe Ruth and J. Edgar Hoover. Yes, but they are both so grim. Both authors create a world that is just full of pain, suffering, rape, injustice, hatred, murder, greed, child molestation, etc. etc. etc. It's depressing. I realize that 1919 was not exactly a paradise, but I doubt it was a complete cesspool of pain and misery. But Lehane has a redeeming feature that Abercrombie lacks: (view spoiler) [he is able to give his characters (relative) happiness at the end (with only a few permanent damages). (hide spoiler) ] Abercrombie never cottoned to this idea, which makes his books worse, in my opinion. Both men are expert world-builders and masters of wordcraft. There's NO DOUBT about their skills and talents. However, Lehane allows me to close the book with a tiny bit of hope, and Abercrombie takes great delight in crushing all my hope to dust beneath his heel. It's no wonder I prefer Lehane. Lehane counters his three-dimensional am-I-a-piece-of-shit-or-am-I-a-man MCs with complete through-and-through villains. He does this to lessen their shitty behavior. \"Sure,\" you think, \"Danny is just allowing this woman he's in love with to starve to death on the street. But he's nothing like Villain, who is murdering a black man every week just to prove a point or Villain II who is a grown man regularly raping his 14-year-old cousin.\" This kind of he-may-acting-shitty-but-this-guy-over-here-deserves-to-die-painfully act is popular with authors who write more unlikable heroes. It's effective, but don't think I don't see what you are doing, Mr. Lehane. Lehane is an amazing writer. The faces of the mob, however, did not elicit anything near to joy in him. His people, the faces nearest him as Irish as potatoes and drunken sentiment, all twisted into repulsive, barbaric masks of rage and self-pity. As if they'd a RIGHT to do this. As if the country owed them any more than it had handed Thomas when he stepped off the boat, which is to say nothing but a fresh chance. He wanted to push them straight back to Ireland, straight back to the loving arms of the British, back to their corn fields and their dank pubs and their toothless women. What had that gray country ever given them except melancholia and alcoholism and the dark humor of the habitually defeated? So they came here, one of the few cities in the world where their kind was given a fair shake. But did they act like Americans? Did they act with respect or gratitude? No. They acted like what they were - the niggers of Europe. How dare they? When this was over, it would take Thomas and good Irishmen like him another decade to undo all the damage this mob had done in two days. Damn you all, he thought as they continued to push them back. Damn you all for smearing our race yet again. That's from one of the novel's conflicted villains. Here's one from Luther: Luther gave a soft smile but didn't say anything. He'd lost comfort with saying \"nigger,\" even around other colored men. But both Jessie and the Deacon Brocious had used it constantly, and some part of Luther felt he'd entombed it with them back at the Club Almighty. He couldn't explain it any better than that, just that it didn't feel right coming off his tongue any longer. Like most things, he assumed, the feeling would pass, but for now... Here's Danny: Danny would have thought it outrageous if it hadn't been steeped in a truth he'd accepted since he could first walk: the system fucked the workingman. The only realistic decision a man had to make was if he was going to buck the system and starve, or play it with so much pluck and guts that none of its inequities applied to him. Lehane is a wonderful writer. His book is gripping for all 702 pages. I couldn't put it down (except out of sorrow after Chapter 11. The racism is very hard to read about) and he kept me glued to the pages every step of the way. However, some of his writing was... not so good. Like when Lehane goes on and on about how wonderful a certain character is, and how everyone loves him and is attracted to his presence: men, women, children, dogs, and then he ends the paragraph with: Because there was something unbroken in the man. And people followed him, maybe, just to see it break. That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. How about this one: ...his eyes so clear it was impossible to read them. They could have been the eyes of a lamb lying down in the last spot of sun on a summer evening. Or those of a lion, waiting for the lamb to get sleepy. WTF? I just... no. How about this? ...and one of those loud, jolly natures Luther believed could never be trusted. Men like that always hid the part of themselves that wasn't smiling and hid it so deep it got all the hungrier, like a bear just come out of hibernation, lumbering out of that cave with a scent in its nose so focused it couldn't ever be reasoned with. I seriously don't know where Lehane is coming up with this shit. Lastly, let's talk about how attractive Luther and Danny are. There were some serious swoon moments. For Danny, it was when he comes to the rescue of a pregnant woman who is in labor, scooping her up in her arms and physically CARRYING her to the hospital, OMG, can he be any more sexy? He scooped her up in his arms and started walking and staggering, walking and staggering, the woman not terribly heavy, but squirming and clawing the air and slapping his chest. For Luther, OMG. He's so badass. Look at this scene where he's dealing with a very evil man: \"Please,\" he said again. \"Please WHAT?\" \"Make... this right.\" \"Okay,\" Luther said and put the gun into the folds under 00000's chin and pulled the trigger with the man looking in his eyes. Or how about when a man comes hunting Luther trying to kill him, sent by an even eviler man. First, Luther beats the shit out of him. Then, Luther shrugged. \"I am special. Any day aboveground that I ain't you or I ain't THAT?\" He jerked his thumb behind him. \"You're goddamned fucking correct I'm special. Ain't afraid of them anymore, ain't afraid of you, ain't afraid of this here color of my skin. Fuck all that forever.\" Old Byron rolled his eyes. \"Like you even less.\" \"Good.\" Luther smiled. He crouched by Old Byron. \"I 'spect you'll live, old man. You get back on the train to Tulsa. Hear? And when you get off it, you go run your sad ass right to 00000 and tell him you missed me. Tell him it don't matter none, though, because he ain't going to have to look hard for me from now on.\" Luther lowered himself until he was close enough to kiss Old Byron Jackson. \"You tell 00000000 I'm coming for HIM.\" He slapped his good cheek once, hard. \"I'm coming home, Old Byron. You tell 000000000 that. You don't?\" Luther shrugged. \"I'll tell him myself.\" He stood and crossed the broken glass and stepped through the window. He never looked back at Old Byron. he worked his way through the feverish white folk and the screams and the rain and the storm of the hive and he knew he was done with every lie he'd ever allowed himself to believe, every like he'd ever lived, every lie. Damn. That is some fine writing and that is a fine man. :D Yum. ANYWAY. Tl;dr - I think reading One Summer: America, 1927 by Bill Bryson earlier this year really helped me to already be in the mood and mindset to accept this novel. It also educated me to the extent that I was familiar with the history and the time period, it was all fresh in my mind. Lehane is a master. I can't put it any other way. 702 pages of historical fiction (especially featuring Babe Ruth and baseball) could have been an absolute nightmare. Instead, Lehane made it an absolute dream. This book is unputdownable. Well-written, fast-moving, and with amazing psychology and character development for the male protagonists. I can't wait to rip into the two sequels and complete the trilogy. Maybe THIS, of all things, was the true price of family - being unable to stop the pains of those you loved. Unable to suck it out of the blood, the heart, the head. You held them and named them and fed them and made your plans for them, never fully realizing that the world was always out there, waiting to apply it's teeth. ...more Lehane hasn't written a book in five years. The Given Day is his return to fiction. It is a big book, both in length (700 pages) and scope. Set in late 1918-1919, the book follows two men, one Irish Boston cop Danny Coughlin and a black man from Tulsa Luther Laurence. The book explores race, baseball, the Boston Police Strike, terrorism, love, and a whole mess of other topics. It is a huge book, and it is beautifully written. I could not put it down. The major complaint about this book, I feel, is Lehane hasn't written a book in five years. The Given Day is his return to fiction. It is a big book, both in length (700 pages) and scope. Set in late 1918-1919, the book follows two men, one Irish Boston cop Danny Coughlin and a black man from Tulsa Luther Laurence. The book explores race, baseball, the Boston Police Strike, terrorism, love, and a whole mess of other topics. It is a huge book, and it is beautifully written. I could not put it down. The major complaint about this book, I feel, is going to be the amount of coincidences that drive the plot along. The first of this coincidences I found rather jarring, but as I moved along I realized that this is a Dickensian novel. Lehane seems to be giving his best Dickens impression, coincidences and all. A wonderful novel that is at once a crime story, a love story, and a political thriller. Historical fiction at it's finest. The prologue is one of the best baseball short stories I've ever read. ...more The Given Day taught me something very important about myself: I don\u2019t like historical fiction. I like fiction. Apparently I only like certain parts of history. When I read Mystic River I was blown away. I absolutely loved Lehane\u2019s writing. He was eloquent and thought-provoking-even moving at times. So when Honk , Graymeat and the White Candle (sometimes Candlestick) and this here crazy MahFah decided we were going to read a Dennis Lehane book I was over the moon about it. I already owned the Given The Given Day taught me something very important about myself: I don\u2019t like historical fiction. I like fiction. Apparently I only like certain parts of history. When I read Mystic River I was blown away. I absolutely loved Lehane\u2019s writing. He was eloquent and thought-provoking-even moving at times. So when Honk , Graymeat and the White Candle (sometimes Candlestick) and this here crazy MahFah decided we were going to read a Dennis Lehane book I was over the moon about it. I already owned the Given Day and thought it was a perfect choice. Boy was I wrong. I only liked one person in this whole book- Luther. For me, Luther was the only real character in the book. The others felt like ideas, or shadows of people we know. They fell flat for me and I had a very hard time connecting with anyone but Luther. Luther\u2019s decisions, though at times were horrible, made sense to me. He acted without thinking, he committed a crime and he left his pregnant wife behind in the wake of his heinous acts. BUT, I understood those decisions. I couldn\u2019t completely sympathize with him but I could at the very least understand that once one thing happened a whole slew of other things happened right after before he had time to evaluate it. That\u2019s what happens in life. And I like when writers capture those real-life situations. It\u2019s my favorite. That\u2019s why Mystic River struck such a chord with me- he captured very realistic reactions by the characters in his book. I didn\u2019t like a single person in the Coughlin family- no not even Danny- who for some reason was called Aiden randomly. Danny was a big time whiner. If there is one thing in men that drives me nuts the most it would be whining. Maybe it\u2019s because my dad was never a complaining type and I grew accustomed to men who just went about their life knowing they did what they had to and did so without complaint. Luther reminded me a lot of my father. (view spoiler) [Not the part where he kills a guy (hide spoiler) ] No, not that part, but even given his situation he rarely, if ever, commented on it. He didn\u2019t wallow in his own self-pity. He worked, he saved, and he lived. Danny, sometimes Aiden, did nothing but play the victim. He complained incessantly and there were times I wanted to reach through the pages and rip his throat out just to get him to shut up. He was also the Ned Stark of this book- \u201cBut this is the LEGAL and RIGHT and JUST way of doing things!\u201d He failed to understand that in life there are grey areas. He wouldn\u2019t bend, he wouldn\u2019t budge and he certainly would not open his eyes\u2026even when the facts were laid out before them. I hated his father the most though- an arrogant and self-righteous man who needed to control every aspect of his family\u2019s life. He was filled with hate, anger and resentment and I grew to loathe him like I did Professor Umbridge. He was a mean old bastard. None of the other characters even warrant discussion in my opinion. They were background noise on an already muddled storyline. As I have already mentioned- the only storyline in the book that I cared for was Luther\u2019s and he is the reason this book gets the rating it does. I almost one-starred it but in the end Luther resonated with me and I can\u2019t discredit Lehane too much for that. I just think this book was bogged down with history. OBVIOUSLY I won\u2019t be trying historical fiction again. This clearly was a huge failure. Maybe I should stick to Nicholas Sparks? (view spoiler) [FUCK YOU, Kimberly (hide spoiler) ] This is not to say that my buddies didn\u2019t make the experience better. It\u2019s always a hoot to get the gang together! This book just happened to be a mind-numbing slog for me! Carmen and Steve both joined us late but ended up finishing before any of us(I think). ...more How does one begin to review a 700-page epic historical novel, which drops names such as Calvin Coolidge, John Hoover, W.E.B. DuBois, and Babe Ruth, among others? Dennis Lehane\u2019s The Given Day is set mainly in Boston at the end of World War I. The action features two families, one black and one white. Luther Laurence is a young \u201ccolored\u201d man who is not quite ready to be a responsible adult. He gets his girlfriend pregnant, and at the insistence of her family, they get married in Tulsa, where eve How does one begin to review a 700-page epic historical novel, which drops names such as Calvin Coolidge, John Hoover, W.E.B. DuBois, and Babe Ruth, among others? Dennis Lehane\u2019s The Given Day is set mainly in Boston at the end of World War I. The action features two families, one black and one white. Luther Laurence is a young \u201ccolored\u201d man who is not quite ready to be a responsible adult. He gets his girlfriend pregnant, and at the insistence of her family, they get married in Tulsa, where even blacks earn a living wage. Aiden \u201cDanny\u201d Coughlin is cop, the son of an Irish immigrant who is a well-known, powerful captain in the Boston Police Department. You might think that these families would have nothing in common and that their paths would never cross, but through the magic of Dennis Lehane\u2019s imagination, they do. If my American History class had been so fascinating, I\u2019d have been one happy student! What was happening in 1917 and 1918 in Boston and other parts of the country was unrest. Cities were beset by workers\u2019 strikes, fighting men were returning home from the war seeking jobs, and blacks were still barely recognized as citizens, not even second-class citizens. Communists and other leftist groups vied for power, and those who joined a union were seen as radicals. Police in Boston faced a lose-lose situation. They could put up with sub-minimal pay, overly long workweeks, and unsanitary conditions in their station houses or they could form a union and risk losing their jobs. As public employees, they were sworn to \u201cserve and protect,\u201d but at what cost? Meanwhile, cities insisted there was no money to pay them. Blacks, better known in those days as \u201ccolored,\u201d or worse, got no respect. Except in Tulsa, which seemed to be the land of milk and honey. Oh, it was still segregated, but a black man could find a job that paid well. He could buy a nice car, even a home. That\u2019s where Luther and his love, Lila, wind up. Until Luther makes some young, stupid choices and gets himself into very, very hot water. And what about Babe Ruth? How does he fit in? The prologue shows the Babe showing off in a pickup game with a bunch of black ballplayers. His train has stalled, and he and his Boston Red Sox teammates, plus their Chicago Cubs rivals, are all killing time while repairs are made. It is our first glimpse of Ruth, and we see what a jerk the man was. Did we really need the Ruth chapters in this book? It would\u2019ve been shorter without them, and I\u2019m not sure I\u2019d have missed them. Yet, it puts things in perspective, I think. Baseball was known as America\u2019s favorite pastime (until, many would argue, football became so widely televised), and I am sure that Ruth\u2019s exploits on the field provided a welcome diversion from the troubles of the day. Apart from that, who was the star player on that Negro team? None other than Luther Laurence, a man who, had he been white, could have played in the major leagues. As it turns out, he faces more hardships and tough choices and shows more character than Ruth. Then there is the chance meeting of Ruth with Danny on the train at the end of the book. Whom do we pick as our heroes? What do we cherish in life? The contrast is beautiful. The characters are many. They are diverse. They are human, which is to say, flawed. Lehane scripts his cops and their bosses like people I could see. I imagined this book as a movie with lots of tough guys. They liked their drink and their women. They fought for what they believed in. And some of them loved. A lot. The Given Day made me angry. It made me sad. It made me smile. Because of the length, I was tempted at times to skim through it, but I didn\u2019t. I savored it. I appreciated the research that went into this work. I loved how Lehane made history come to life. I also loved that Danny could love Nora and that they could be friends with Luther. Much of this book reminded me of the struggles that are happening in this country and in the world today. As the saying goes, \u201cThose who do not learn history are doomed to repeat it.\u201d ...more I have it pretty good here in ol\u2019 2016. I work nine to five, Monday to Friday. I have a decent health plan and my job consists of sitting on my ass in front of a computer all day. I get regular raises and if I get sick, I can rest up for a few days until I kick whatever ails me out of my system. The men of the Boston Police Department in the early 20th century didn\u2019t have any of this. They\u2019d be lucky if they were even given time off to sleep let alone enough money to feed their families. For Denn I have it pretty good here in ol\u2019 2016. I work nine to five, Monday to Friday. I have a decent health plan and my job consists of sitting on my ass in front of a computer all day. I get regular raises and if I get sick, I can rest up for a few days until I kick whatever ails me out of my system. The men of the Boston Police Department in the early 20th century didn\u2019t have any of this. They\u2019d be lucky if they were even given time off to sleep let alone enough money to feed their families. For Dennis Lehane, it started with the Boston Police strike of 1919. The simple thought of an entire police force walking off the job had fascinated him, but as he began digging, The Given Day grew both in size and scope. Lehane included the infamous Spanish Flu outbreak, The Great Molasses Flood of early 1919, and Babe Ruth\u2019s rise to the top of baseball - all of this occurring within a city already struggling to find its identity. As Boston formed into a melting pot of immigrants - both the Irish and Italians leading the forefront - to say that they were all at odds with one another would be a gross understatement. Considering the Irish were often connected to the police department and the Italians closely associated with communism and terrorism, events would occur that would poison the minds of Boston's residents resulting in widespread racism that would fuel many of the city's more memorable events. The Given Day follows three main characters. Danny Coughlin, a young Boston police officer tasked with infiltrating and investigating the Boston Social Club - an unofficial union formed by his fellow officers looking to fight for workers rights; Luther Laurence, a black man who arrives in Boston fleeing from Oklahoma following a botched robbery attempt; and Babe Ruth (do I really need to explain who this is?). As the plot progresses, all three become linked by the corruption and fear that gripped Beantown. Lehane\u2019s clean, flowing prose is front and center making The Given Day a breezy, but brutal read. Character development is top-notch and I found myself digging in for long reading sessions, desperate to know what horrible thing would hit the city next. That said, the Babe Ruth stuff didn\u2019t do a whole lot for me. Although he wasn\u2019t featured as prominently as the other two characters, I found his story a little jarring and out of place by comparison. Both Danny and Luther\u2019s stories were so gritty, unpredictable and at times unapologetically bleak that Ruth\u2019s story felt like literary padding. Like Lehane\u2019s signature Kenzie & Gennaro series, The Given Day is about as readable as you can get. Aside from the bits about Ruth, you have a classic crime/historical fiction book that plays like a James Ellroy novel on Ritalin. ...more WOW! The Given Day has it all. Lehane gives his reader historical facts, tons of strong characters, both good and evil, social and political unrest, murder and mayhem and throws in a love story to boot! This was a powerful book, and even more so for me as I listened to the wonderful narration of Michael Boatman. The ease with which he changed voice, tone, accent was mesmerizing. The immigrant Irish brogue, the street cop Boston Irish accent, the New England sound, the black man's cadence....eve WOW! The Given Day has it all. Lehane gives his reader historical facts, tons of strong characters, both good and evil, social and political unrest, murder and mayhem and throws in a love story to boot! This was a powerful book, and even more so for me as I listened to the wonderful narration of Michael Boatman. The ease with which he changed voice, tone, accent was mesmerizing. The immigrant Irish brogue, the street cop Boston Irish accent, the New England sound, the black man's cadence....even a bit of British and Italian thrown in he nailed them all without missing a beat. He became each character as he brought the lyrical writing of Mr. Lehane to life for me. Even Mr. Babe Ruth finds his way woven throughout this book much to my delight. I appreciated that the unrest of the two main characters matched the unrest of the city of Boston in the early 1900's. The war was over, the \"ward bosses\" still ruled the city, politics were dirty and anarchy and prohibition was the talk of the day. I had a front row seat at watching history unfold. Lehane had me holding my breath, chuckling to myself and rushing to see how everything turns out. But oh, at the end I was so sad to let these wonderful characters go. This was a story that touched me and had me reading up on the history of the time, seeing which events were true and reading more about them. These characters lived large and life was often hard, but they were proud and believable. Family mattered as did your word. Throw in a few twists and turns along the way and you are rooting for the underdog to win in the end. Don't let the length of this book overwhelm you. The story (actually the parallel stories) move swiftly and carry you right along. If you enjoy historical, character driven fiction and excellent writing I don't think this will let you down. ...more I frequently experience a letdown after reading the choice new releases that publishers and literary critics push and bookstores parade as the greatest novel of the decade. So I was wary but seduced, anyway, to buy Lehane's book--by Boston, by the Red Sox, by themes of racial injustice and social unrest, by the parallels to contemporary issues, and by Lehane's accomplishment with Mystic River. I was impressed by Lehane's ambitious genre-crossing. The quality of this book is sufficiently steep th I frequently experience a letdown after reading the choice new releases that publishers and literary critics push and bookstores parade as the greatest novel of the decade. So I was wary but seduced, anyway, to buy Lehane's book--by Boston, by the Red Sox, by themes of racial injustice and social unrest, by the parallels to contemporary issues, and by Lehane's accomplishment with Mystic River. I was impressed by Lehane's ambitious genre-crossing. The quality of this book is sufficiently steep that the minor flaws are forgivable. This resonant story with memorable, marrow-deep characters did not fade away after the final page. Amazon provides an exuberant introduction to this novel, so my desire is to share my response to reading it rather than retelling the events. And there are teeming, cataclysmic events that vitalize the story. Danny Coughlin and Luther Laurence, the two main protagonists, are portrayed with virile consciousness and psychological intensity. I see them, feel them, hear them, smell them-- until I am breathing them. They are nervy and knuckled. They are not merely the broad strokes that you sometimes get in a period piece of sprawling, epic proportions (although there are a few Rocky-esque contours). They are not secondary to advancing the plot. Danny and Luther drive the story as the story also fuels them. And there is enough brio to keep them elastic and passionate. Danny's father, Thomas Coughlin (police captain), is especially interesting. He is a mixture of confident swagger, moral ambiguity, and tragedy--the closest of the characters to a literary one. He is the most unpredictable and enigmatic and keeps you changing your mind about him until the end of the novel. Although there is some sentimentality to the story and main characters, I did not feel short-changed. Although the author is transparent about his political views, he makes them tactile and combative in detail and luster. The background and landscape become character, also. It breathes and belches with dust, dirt, steel, mortar, sky, and water. The potent imagery adds dramatic tension and texture to the story without dragging it down. Individuals struggle to harness their environment and reconcile with its impersonal but cruel nature. Lehane intertwines the landscape as extended metaphor and foreshadowing as well as time, place, and temperament. His descriptions give a fierce undercurrent to a subdued atmosphere and tone--there is never just one sustained note (another problem with some period pieces). Some reviewers cite stilted dialogue with too much exposition. I did not experience that to any significant extent. There were some moments near the beginning of the novel that were a bit awkward, but once the momentum got going and the characters were well-oiled, the story became fluid and powerful. There is a curve in historical fiction where readers adjust to the author's chosen prose style and narrative flow. This is not a perfect novel--some of the architecture of it can strain believability and it waxes sentimental. And yet it is exhilarating, consistently engrossing. It never got musty or flat--it remained plump and invigorating. Its visceral engagement kept it at a 5-star excellence. Like Steinbeck's East of Eden, it is flawed and overflowing and exciting. This is an intelligent page-turner--also a thriller, a drama, a period piece, and family saga. It is fiery and wet, tempestuous and fierce. And a gift on any given day. ...more This quickly jumped into my list of favorite novels! Not only is it impeccably researched and details dramatic historical events in Boston of 1919, it also follows truly relatable and engaging characters. The book follows two young men, one black and one white, who get caught up in the social and political turmoil in Boston at the time. I was worried that being a long historical drama, it would be boring, but from the first chapter I was totally engaged and then became swept up in Luther's desire This quickly jumped into my list of favorite novels! Not only is it impeccably researched and details dramatic historical events in Boston of 1919, it also follows truly relatable and engaging characters. The book follows two young men, one black and one white, who get caught up in the social and political turmoil in Boston at the time. I was worried that being a long historical drama, it would be boring, but from the first chapter I was totally engaged and then became swept up in Luther's desire to get back to is wife and Danny's journey into union activism and involvement in the infamous police strike. The books pacing is surprisingly quick for all the historical info it details and I finished it in four days. I've read all of Dennis Lehane's novels and most of his short stories, and I'm looking forward to the next one! ...more I awaited fervently for my turn at the library for this book and was pretty gravely disappointed. It begins with great promise -- the period in time in Boston's history where the end of WWI, the outbreak of the great influenza epidemic, violent terrorism, and the formation of labor unions all intersect to create huge social upheaval. But I just can't finish, despite how piqued my interest is about this period of history. The writing was often wooden; the characterizations are stock and flat; I d I awaited fervently for my turn at the library for this book and was pretty gravely disappointed. It begins with great promise -- the period in time in Boston's history where the end of WWI, the outbreak of the great influenza epidemic, violent terrorism, and the formation of labor unions all intersect to create huge social upheaval. But I just can't finish, despite how piqued my interest is about this period of history. The writing was often wooden; the characterizations are stock and flat; I do want to know what happens to everybody but not enough to complete the slog. If there are readers out there who can recommend a good non-fiction book about this period, please email me or leave me a note in the comments. Disappointing. ...more I jumped in late on a buddy-read with Delee , Stepheny , Jeff , and Jess . Couldn't sleep last night, so I finished this plodding novel. 2.5 stars, barely rounded up. The Given Day is an historical novel set in Boston around the tumultuous times around 1919: the end of World War I, the Spanish Flu, unions forming against business owners, and huge waves of immigrants coming to the US hoping for a better life. The story centers around tough Boston Irish cop Danny Coughlin, and Luther Laurence, a black ma I jumped in late on a buddy-read with Delee , Stepheny , Jeff , and Jess . Couldn't sleep last night, so I finished this plodding novel. 2.5 stars, barely rounded up. The Given Day is an historical novel set in Boston around the tumultuous times around 1919: the end of World War I, the Spanish Flu, unions forming against business owners, and huge waves of immigrants coming to the US hoping for a better life. The story centers around tough Boston Irish cop Danny Coughlin, and Luther Laurence, a black man on the run. Coughlin struggles in his relationship with his powerful father, Boston police captain Thomas Coughlin. Luther fled to Boston, but wants only to return to his wife and child in Tulsa. Their stories eventually come together at the Coughlin household over their mutual interests. Beyond the main characters, the supporting cast was shallow stereotypes. Danny's love interest is deep and complex \u2013that is what we are told, but nothing supports this. Every single character wears a black or a white hat. Only Danny's father seems to have any gray; he is the one character difficult to decipher. Ultimately, this novel was incredibly tedious and repetitious. The plot was predictable, which is expected when dealing with stereotypes. When the good police commissioner promises a living wage, it is unsurprising that he dies before it is implemented. It also wasn\u2019t a shocker that a corrupt cop would use Luther's troubled past to manipulate him. There were a few redeeming qualities in the book, though. The battle between the cops and Bolsheviks, the battle of the police trying to get a livable wage, the descriptions of Boston's North End and the battle to keep organized labor from growing were all good. Of the three overlapping and intersecting storylines in The Given Day (Danny the cop; Luther on the run; Babe Ruth the baseball legend), I would rate Luther's story 4 stars, Danny's story 2 stars, and Babe's story 1 star. This novel really needed to be trimmed and edited for length, maybe focusing on either Luther or Danny alone, and eliminating the whole Babe Ruth storyline altogether. This isn't a bad novel. It's just bloated. In the end, it feels like Lehane was trying too hard to incorporate too many historical events with too many storylines, failing to propel the novel forward. It is at times excellent, at times meandering. This is a novel that I\u2019d recommend only if you're willing to wade through 700+ pages to find the few brilliant bright spots. ...more This book had so much going for it, I couldn't put it down...at least for the first 400 pages. But then I started to feel the characters were being manipulated from the outside, not operating from internal truths, and there were quite a few anachronistic conversations and unbelievavle relationships between African Americans and whites (given the time period, 1919). I'd recommend it for the history and the exciting read, but in the end I think it couldn've been stronger. I think, secretly, Lehane This book had so much going for it, I couldn't put it down...at least for the first 400 pages. But then I started to feel the characters were being manipulated from the outside, not operating from internal truths, and there were quite a few anachronistic conversations and unbelievavle relationships between African Americans and whites (given the time period, 1919). I'd recommend it for the history and the exciting read, but in the end I think it couldn've been stronger. I think, secretly, Lehane wanted to write a book about Babe Ruth -- one of his most fully realized characters -- but had to change course midstream for whatever limitations he came up against. ...more Lehane's use of dialog and story is outstanding and riveting. His story pulls you in and you will not be able to stop. This was my first Dennis Lehane story, but definitely not my last. I highly recommend if you love thrillers with an historical aspect. Son of a gun, Ive already read this and never reviewed it. The author is so often linked with the idea of mysteries or stories of psychological suspense that this piece of historical fiction is outside the arena that one would expect. Sets in the early 1900s, mostly in Boston, this terrific story is about the family of an Irish cop and the black man who serves his family as a domestic. Labor disputes of the time, the anarchy that ended in what we would now call acts of terror, strikes, returning Son of a gun, Ive already read this and never reviewed it. The author is so often linked with the idea of mysteries or stories of psychological suspense that this piece of historical fiction is outside the arena that one would expect. Sets in the early 1900s, mostly in Boston, this terrific story is about the family of an Irish cop and the black man who serves his family as a domestic. Labor disputes of the time, the anarchy that ended in what we would now call acts of terror, strikes, returning soldiers, and the racial divide are beautifully draw here. As a bit of a quirk, the story opens with Babe Ruth, drunk on the back of a train and soon witnessing a ball game played by phenomenal players from the Negro leagues of the time. The infamous ballplayer pops in and out of the story, and while he has little to nothing to do with the overall arch, he keeps grounding us to the time period at hand. Very good, but not thrilling. ...more Two odysseys converge into one story. African American Luther Laurence begins his in Ohio. Devoted to Lila Waters, he learns she is carrying his child, and follows her to Tulsa where she has family. Danny Coughlin is born into police \u201croyalty\u201d in the still parochial city of Boston where the Irish police maintain order, Brahmin families rule the political system and Italians and Jews are feared anarchists. His father is a police captain; his godfather is lieutenant of a special squads unit. The y Two odysseys converge into one story. African American Luther Laurence begins his in Ohio. Devoted to Lila Waters, he learns she is carrying his child, and follows her to Tulsa where she has family. Danny Coughlin is born into police \u201croyalty\u201d in the still parochial city of Boston where the Irish police maintain order, Brahmin families rule the political system and Italians and Jews are feared anarchists. His father is a police captain; his godfather is lieutenant of a special squads unit. The year is 1918 and the narrative follows a year of tumult, economic recession, rising unemployment and inflation, union activism, vicious racism and political corruption. Lehane helpfully provides a list of characters for this sprawling book. There are well over two dozen, ranging from fictional to the very real and prominent: Calvin Coolidge, governor of Massachusetts; Babe Ruth of the Boston Red Sox; financier James Storrow (for which Storrow Drive is named); and Boston mayor Andrew Peters. He ought to have included a chronology. Historic events play a significant role in the story. In 1916 anarchists bombed the Salutation Street police station. The East St. Louis riots occurred in 1917. The influenza epidemic swept through Boston in the fall of 1918. The Molasses disaster occurred in 1919. In the same year Prohibition was ratified. In September of that year the Boston police went on strike. By the end of the year, Babe Ruth had been traded from the Boston Red Sox to the New York Yankees. All of these events present a lively and emotionally charged backdrop to Lehane's story. The mayor has been promising the police a raise since before the War. Fellow officer Steve Coyle bitterly notes: \u201c'Have you ever noticed that when they need us, they talk about duty, but when we need them, they talk about budgets?'\u201d Later, Danny echoes the similar sentiments: \u201c'When they need us, they speak of family. When we need them, they speak of business.'\u201d Luther as well recognizes his lack of empowerment, and the duplicitous manipulation of words. Surrounded by Lila's bible thumping disapproving relatives he notes: \u201cTheir sayings fell more along the lines of 'The Lord hates a ...' and 'The Lord don't...' and 'The Lord won't...' and 'The Lord shall not abide a ...' Making God sound like one irritable master, quick with the whip.\" One dilemma of this book is that the most interesting character Lehane has created is Thomas Coughlin, Danny's father. Captain Coughlin is a complicated man from another generation. He and Danny's godfather Eddie McKenna emigrated illegally from Ireland when they were 15 years old and dirt poor. In addition to hard work, clear-eyed pragmatism has guided their success. Thomas remembers his twin brother Liam with mixed and suppressed feelings. It's a part of his life he keeps hidden from Danny who most resembles Liam. Thomas's life is his family and his job; both are sliding into chaos he cannot understand. Despite his self-righteous sense of purpose, his volatile temper and crafty maneuvering, the reader feels sadness for this character. Not only is he ill-suited to change, but his marriage has slipped into a ritual performance. \u201cHe'd lost all connection with her [his wife] over the years, made peace with a warmth that lived occasionally in her voice but rarely in her eyes, because the eyes alit on nothing, seemed instead to always be tilted slightly up, as if she were conversing with her own mind and nothing else. He didn't know this woman....[T]ime had also robbed them of each other, fostered within a relationship based on itself and nothing more, no different from that of a saloon keeper and his most frequent patron. You loved out of habit and lack of brighter options.\u201d It is never a good sign when the first thought after finishing a book is: \u201cWow, that was long.\u201d Unfortunately, that's the first thought that entered my head. It felt to me as if I had read two books. Lehane's writing is powerful, and numerous passages burst with energy. Here is his description of the Salutation Street bombing: \u201cWhat Danny heard was thunder. Not the loudest thunder he'd ever heard necessarily, but the deepest. Like a great dark yawn from a great wide god. He would have never questioned it as anything but thunder if he hadn't recognized immediately that it came from below him. It loosed a baritone yowl that moved the walls and shimmied the floors. All in less than a second.\u201d Objectively descriptive passages are equally forceful. History is made immediate in this book. Danny, Steve and Luther's voices could easily be contemporary. Unemployment, class divisions, and contradictions between society's values and actions persist. Terrorists under every bed; turning health care workers in west Africa into pariahs \u2014 aren't these modern analogies to the anarchists and pandemic workers? Lehane disappoints in that he backs off from this thesis. (view spoiler) [There is an underlying pessimism to Lehane's view of history which is contradicted by the plot. Lehane lets both Danny and Luther off the hook too easily. His willingness to intervene on their behalf is revealed early. Danny, along with the rest of the police force, is still patrolling the flu-stricken tenements. \u201cHe'd seen it fell doctors and nurses and coroners and ambulance drivers and two cops from the First Precinct and six more from other precincts. And even as it blasted a hole through the neighborhood he'd come to love with a passion he couldn't even explain to himself, he knew it wouldn't stick to him. Death had missed him at Salutation Street, and now it circled him and winked at him but then settled on someone else.\u201d The plot devolves into a pair of love stories with happy endings. The structure that begins and ends with Babe Ruth works on that level, but is too cleverly contrived for the more intense historical drama. (hide spoiler) ] The book will be of particular interest to anyone native to Boston, which I am not. I'm glad I read it, but could not free myself from the feeling: This was a long book. NOTE: Interesting interview where Lehane talks about his views of society http://www.theguardian.com/culture/20... ...more \u03a4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03b2\u03bb\u03bf \u03ad\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b5\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b5\u03ba\u03b4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b5\u03c9\u03bd \u039a\u03ad\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u0394\u03b5\u03ba\u03ad\u03bc\u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 2014, \u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03c0\u03c9\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03b1. \u0389\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8'\u03b1\u03b3\u03cc\u03c1\u03b1\u03b6\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03ce\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc\u03c2. \u03a4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03cc \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9. \u039d\u03b1, \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf-\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b2\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03b7 \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \"Live By Night\", \u03b7 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03bc\u03cc\u03c4\u03b9\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 Coughlin. \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1, \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0 \u03a4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03b2\u03bb\u03bf \u03ad\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b5\u03c1\u03b4\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b5\u03ba\u03b4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b5\u03c9\u03bd \u039a\u03ad\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u0394\u03b5\u03ba\u03ad\u03bc\u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 2014, \u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03c0\u03c9\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03b1. \u0389\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8'\u03b1\u03b3\u03cc\u03c1\u03b1\u03b6\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03ce\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc\u03c2. \u03a4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03cc \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9. \u039d\u03b1, \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf-\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b2\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03b7 \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \"Live By Night\", \u03b7 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03bc\u03cc\u03c4\u03b9\u03c4\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 Coughlin. \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1, \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b1 (\u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03cd\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03a0\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03ba\u03b7). \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b7\u03b3\u03b5\u03af\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9. \u03a3\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac; \u0395, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03ad\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1. \u03a4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd, \u03c3\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c0\u03c1\u03b7\u03be\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c8\u03b7\u03c4\u03cc. \u039f\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc-\u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2. \u0391\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03af \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf, \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u039b\u03b5\u03c5\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u039c\u03b1\u03cd\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2. \u039f \u03bc\u03b5\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9 \u039d\u03c4\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9 \u039a\u03cc\u03c6\u03bb\u03b9\u03bd, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03c6\u03cd\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0391\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2, \u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bf\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1\u03bd\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bf\u03bc\u03ac\u03b4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c5\u03bd\u03b7\u03b3\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03c3\u03b5\u03b2\u03af\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03ba\u03bf\u03c2, \u03bf \u039b\u03bf\u03cd\u03b8\u03b5\u03c1 \u039b\u03cc\u03c1\u03b5\u03bd\u03c2, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03af \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03a4\u03ac\u03bb\u03c3\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03bf\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7, \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03b3\u03ba\u03c5\u03bf \u03b3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03ad\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b4\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd, \u03b3\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c1\u03c4\u03c5\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bf\u03bb\u03cc\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c7\u03ce\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7. \u0393\u03bd\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c1\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b1, \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03c0\u03c4\u03c5\u03be\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd \u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03cd\u03b3\u03ba\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b5\u03c6\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03b3\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03b5\u03af\u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u0391\u03c1\u03c7\u03ad\u03c2. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c1\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03af \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c1\u03b9\u03b6\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03ba\u03c1\u03ac\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03c4\u03c9\u03c7\u03bf\u03af, \u03b5\u03c5\u03c5\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b7\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b8\u03c9\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03bf\u03af, \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03c6\u03b8\u03b1\u03c1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03af \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03ba\u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03ba\u03c1\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03c7\u03ac\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b3\u03cd\u03c1\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u038c\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac, \u03b5\u03bb\u03ac\u03c7\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u0391' \u03a0\u03b1\u03b3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c3\u03bc\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a0\u03bf\u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03be\u03b5 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac. \u039c\u03b9\u03bb\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf, \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03bd\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b3\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c5\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7, \u03bc\u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ae \u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae, \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03b7. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf, \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae. \u039a\u03b1\u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7. \u0398\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b2\u03c5\u03b8\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b3\u03ba\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf \u03c3\u03cd\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u03a0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b4\u03ad\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b2\u03bb\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ad\u03b3\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b5\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03c7\u03ac\u03c1\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1. \u039f \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ad\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae \u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b7\u03c3\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c3\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1\u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2. \u0397 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c6\u03ac\u03bd\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae, \u03b5\u03c5\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03be\u03b5\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03c9\u03bd \u03c3\u03ba\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ce\u03bd, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c6\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9. \u03a0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03ae\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03c9, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03ad\u03be\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5. \u03a3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u0392\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7, \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03b9 \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 (\u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03b9\u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2), \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03b3\u03ba\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf \u03c3\u03cd\u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5. \u0386\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03c1\u03ac\u03c4\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03b1. \u03a4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd, \u03c4\u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf (\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03ad\u03c2, \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf), \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1. \u03a5.\u0393. 1. \u03a9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b7 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ad\u03ba\u03b4\u03bf\u03c3\u03b7, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac\u03c6\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1. \u03a5.\u0393. 2. \u039f \u039b\u03b5\u03c7\u03ad\u03b9\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae\u03c2 (\"\u03a4\u03bf \u03bd\u03b7\u03c3\u03af \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd\", \"\u03a3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ac\u03bc\u03b9\", \"\u0395\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\"), \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ae\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1. \u0395\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac. ...more After five years\u2019 silence, The Bard of South Boston swings for the fences with this sprawling, brawling entry in the Epic American Novel sweepstakes, and for me he hits a home run. Although it shares the same home turf as his earlier work ( Mystic River , Gone Baby Gone ), this novel is a period piece, set just after World War I in an America I hadn\u2019t realized was so similar to the one we\u2019ve been living in for the last few years: grappling with the effects of a devastating war, the exact reasons fo After five years\u2019 silence, The Bard of South Boston swings for the fences with this sprawling, brawling entry in the Epic American Novel sweepstakes, and for me he hits a home run. Although it shares the same home turf as his earlier work ( Mystic River , Gone Baby Gone ), this novel is a period piece, set just after World War I in an America I hadn\u2019t realized was so similar to the one we\u2019ve been living in for the last few years: grappling with the effects of a devastating war, the exact reasons for which had been forgotten, if indeed they\u2019d ever really been known; terrified by the threat of foreign anarchists bombing public buildings and killing civilians, with the presumed aim of destroying democracy and the American Way Of Life; and mercilessly manipulated by corrupt and greedy politicians exploiting the country\u2019s fear and xenophobia to preserve their own wealth and power. Sound familiar? In Boston, half the city is struggling uneasily to evolve with the changing times, the other half fighting equally hard to maintain the status quo, and Lehane wraps his arms round it all, juggling three story lines that at first go forward separately, only occasionally kissing past each other like billiard balls, and then eventually sweep together in the rising tide of events. We follow the various journeys of Danny Coughlin, latest in a long line of Boston Irish cops, trying to reconcile family pride and public service with his personal ideals and deep sense of individual morality; African-American Luther Laurence, a gifted baseball player who\u2019ll never be allowed to play the game because of his race, a good man who spends most of the novel trying to fight his way back from one devastating misjudgement; and, appearing at intervals in chapters that stand apart from the rest of the book and yet reflect on its main narrative action, Babe Ruth, an oversized innocent caring only for baseball and made immune somehow by his purity of purpose to the currents of change raging all around him. The way that Lehane combines fictional characters with non-fictional ones (J Edgar Hoover, Jack Reed, W.E.B. DuBois) and imagined narrative with historical event (the flu epidemic of 1918, the Boston Policemen\u2019s Strike, the Molasses Disaster) is reminiscent of Ragtime . But where Doctorow approaches his story in elegiac mood, as a kind of poet-academic, Lehane\u2019s two-fisted, blood-in-the-eye prose pulses with passion and testosterone \u2013 although he can be poetic as well after his own fashion, especially when writing about baseball, as he does in the book\u2019s almost painfully beautiful prologue about an unexpected pick-up game played in a field on a summer afternoon in Ohio. (A soundly hit ball \u201cclimbs the sky like it had hands and knees.\u201d) Simply the best novel I\u2019ve read in a long long time, with vivid, vital characters, a rich and immediate sense of place, and a raw, you-are-there energy that makes it a compulsive, compelling and absolutely satisfying read. ...more So far in his relatively early career, Dennis Lehane has given us a stellar crime series and a few other great novels (Shutter Island, which I loved, and Mystic River, which I haven't read because I saw and loved the movie). Unless he outdoes himself on this one, The Given Day will go down as his Great American Novel. The Given Day is set in 1919 Boston, and you would think that with the end of the Great War, times would be roaring and booming. Not so. America is in a state of civil unrest, with w So far in his relatively early career, Dennis Lehane has given us a stellar crime series and a few other great novels (Shutter Island, which I loved, and Mystic River, which I haven't read because I saw and loved the movie). Unless he outdoes himself on this one, The Given Day will go down as his Great American Novel. The Given Day is set in 1919 Boston, and you would think that with the end of the Great War, times would be roaring and booming. Not so. America is in a state of civil unrest, with workers striking across the country, and the continent (Montreal) for that matter, as well. In Boston, policemen make less than janitors and are called upon to put their lives on the line for upwards of 70 hours a week. Unions are the day's four-letter word, their members looked upon as Bolsheviks, communists. The story jumps between two families, the white Coughlins, whose father is a BPD captain, and his son a respected copper, and Luther Laurence, a black man trying to make a life for himself and his girlfriend. Interspersed through these chapters we follow the career of Babe Ruth. Awesome. In fact, the novel starts of with him barfing off the caboose of a train. How great is that? For a 700 page novel, it sure didn't feel that way. The great thing about a story with separate storylines is that each time you get back to the people you left behind a couple of chapters ago, it sets you off with renewed interest in their story. This was a fine novel, and I learned a lot about the history of Boston during this time (I had no idea this stuff had happened). Dennis Lehane continues to be a can't-miss writer. He has had three of his novels put to the big screen to high acclaim, and I have a very strong feeling this one will make it there too. It will make a magnificent movie. ...more Lehane, Dennis. THE GIVEN DAY. (2008). *****. Be prepared to spend a few nights with this novel from Lehane. It is a long, long book. When you have finished it, however, you will realize that you have just read Lehane\u2019s best bool. It is the story of an Irish policeman in Boston in the year 1919. It is also the story of a black man on the run from the law who ends up in Boston as a servant to the policeman\u2019s family on Beacon Hill. 1919 was a turbulent year, and Lehane uses all of the history to s Lehane, Dennis. THE GIVEN DAY. (2008). *****. Be prepared to spend a few nights with this novel from Lehane. It is a long, long book. When you have finished it, however, you will realize that you have just read Lehane\u2019s best bool. It is the story of an Irish policeman in Boston in the year 1919. It is also the story of a black man on the run from the law who ends up in Boston as a servant to the policeman\u2019s family on Beacon Hill. 1919 was a turbulent year, and Lehane uses all of the history to support and drive his story. Troops were coming back home from the war in Europe. The influenza plague was at its peak, The organization of labor into unions was starting to rear its head, along with cries of anarchy from business leaders. There were any number of groups that wanted to change the worker/employer relationship and seek better treatment for workers. Most of them were peaceful. It didn\u2019t matter. They were all branded as anarchists and became the target of police across the country. Race riots occurred across the country, most notably in Chicago, Detroit, and East St. Louis. Now they threatened in Boston. Our policeman becomes involved in setting up a policeman\u2019s union, affiliated with AFL under Samuel Gompers. This puts him at odds with the city administration and with his family; his father is a police Captain of the old school. The novel culminates in the Boston riots of that year, when the police went on strike and the mobs took to the streets. Lots of history here, and lots of sub-plots to carry the reader along. Lehand does an excellent job of providing depth for his characters and giving the reader a feel for the times through his research and use of telling incidents. Highly recommended. ...more Surprise, surprise! I have read Dennis Lehane before, and he's most famously known as a mystery and crime writer. Not as much for historical fiction, which this novel should be labeled as. I had expected something completely different, but it was a pleasant surprise. It takes place in 1919 and largely revolves around the Boston police strike as well as some of its key people. Not being familiar with this event on beforehand I found this story very captivating. Lehane cleverly introduces us to the Surprise, surprise! I have read Dennis Lehane before, and he's most famously known as a mystery and crime writer. Not as much for historical fiction, which this novel should be labeled as. I had expected something completely different, but it was a pleasant surprise. It takes place in 1919 and largely revolves around the Boston police strike as well as some of its key people. Not being familiar with this event on beforehand I found this story very captivating. Lehane cleverly introduces us to the key people and their ideals by a family connection. The family connection opens for an intrigue as well as a unique insight to the involved people's minds as the characters have to consider their values and how their actions affect or will affect those close to them. In this time, it also mattered if you were black or white. This story documents the prejudices of the time and the difficulties black people faced because of them well. It has its ups and downs and many of the characters are so genuinely evil, intolerable and small-minded that I had some difficulty to at all sympathize with them and, at times, even to read on. Despite these despicable characters, it is a great and as far as I judge, fair and realistic portrayal of this time and event. It is a slow burner, and it took me some time to get into the story as well as discovering how much I actually appreciated reading it, but I would encourage anyone who appreciates this kind of historical fiction to read this novel. ...more I've read this book for the first time in Sept-Oct. of 2011 (see review hereafter). This time around I've listened to the Audio version (audible.com) and the impact of the story is the same: this is and remains an amazing narrative of a specific tumultuous time in the city of Boston. A huge round of applause for Michael Boatman who did a fantastic job bringing to life so flawlessly the many different characters that are featured. He did a great job with all the accents! 1st review: The minute I re I've read this book for the first time in Sept-Oct. of 2011 (see review hereafter). This time around I've listened to the Audio version (audible.com) and the impact of the story is the same: this is and remains an amazing narrative of a specific tumultuous time in the city of Boston. A huge round of applause for Michael Boatman who did a fantastic job bringing to life so flawlessly the many different characters that are featured. He did a great job with all the accents! 1st review: The minute I read other reviews of this book, I couldn\u2019t wait to read it. So after work I hurried to the local library. I knew I had to read it. And boy, am I thrilled I did! This book is a dazzling historical read about what the city of Boston went through in 1918-1919: Spanish Influenza (the grippe), social unrest (anarchists, Bolsheviks...) and the horrible working conditions of so many laborers and workers, but especially of the Boston Police Department. Two young men are pivotal characters: Danny, a beat cop, rebelling against his strong police captain father, and a young African-American, Luther, who hooks up with the wrong crowd in Tulsa, finds himself in quite a bit of trouble and ends up \u2018in hiding\u201d in Boston. I truly enjoyed Luther and Danny\u2019s friendship that forms through the pages. There are around 20 other important characters, all multi-layered and craftily fleshed out, some so obviously mean and vicious (Eddie McKenna, commissioner Curtis, mayor Peeters to only name a few), and then some good-hearted and genuine people like the Giddreaux, and sweet young Joe. It\u2019s sad to say that the scale of bad people tips the good one. Beyond any doubt, Luther was my favorite character; flawed, compassionate, strong, and loyal. When I start a new book I\u2019m always looking to be fully immersed into a new world or to be swept away into a big new adventure, and certainly, that\u2019s what I experienced here \u2013 Dennis Lehane is a good story-teller and writer \u2013 imagery of early 20th century metropolitan life are painted in a strong and bold language, and the meditation on the historical and cultural reality that is Boston it is absolutely superb. This is an exceptional book offering us a vivid tale of the struggle and the sacrifice of the generations that precede us in order to give us the good life we have today. My only minor point of criticism would be the length of the book. There\u2019s so much information! And it\u2019s absolutely very interesting. Still, trimming a few scenes here and there would\u2019ve have made the reading experience even more blissful and enrapturing. Overall a stunning read. ...more I've been a fan of Lehane's since his earliest detective novels. When I was writing mysteries, he was one of those writers I was simply in awe of -- a guy who writes with such talent and vision it's a little intimidating to the rest of us schmucks plodding along in the genre. The general public will be familiar with his novels that were made into movies: Mystic River, Shutter Island and Gone, Baby, Gone. I'll confess I haven't seen any of those movies. I have difficulty seeing movie adaptations I've been a fan of Lehane's since his earliest detective novels. When I was writing mysteries, he was one of those writers I was simply in awe of -- a guy who writes with such talent and vision it's a little intimidating to the rest of us schmucks plodding along in the genre. The general public will be familiar with his novels that were made into movies: Mystic River, Shutter Island and Gone, Baby, Gone. I'll confess I haven't seen any of those movies. I have difficulty seeing movie adaptations of my favorite books even if the adaptations are good, but the novels are uniformly excellent. At any rate, I hadn't read any Lehane novels in years before I picked up The Given Day. This is a huge departure for Lehane -- an ambitious, sprawling historical novel set in Boston in 1918-1919. Clearly, Lehane has done his homework, and this is a labor of love to capture one of the seminal eras of his hometown of Boston. At its core, The Given Day is about two men -- Irish-American policeman Danny Coughlin, and African-American laid-off factory worker Luther Lawrence -- whose lives intertwine through some of the major crises of the day: the Spanish flu epidemic, the end of World War I, race riots, and the rise of the labor unions. We also get interlude chapters told from the perspective of Babe Ruth, who provides a wonderful third perspective on the era and some dark comic relief. (The story of the piano in the pond is worth the price of admission by itself.) Do not expect a fast read. This is not a roller coaster of a book. It's more of a steam train ride across a vivid landscape. The characters are fabulous, however. Lehane's writing is as lean and evocative as ever. You will feel like you've actually visited Boston in 1919. And like all good historical novels, you'll be struck by how many things have changed in American culture -- and how many things haven't. ...more Mini Review Dennis Lehane was the first really good author I had read and coming back to him after a couple of years, the first thing that strikes me is he is one of those rare authors who improve with every book. His writing is nuanced and he has got a perfectionist's dedication when it comes to choosing words. The characters are multi faceted while the protagonists are specially well written managing to be realistic and heroic at the same time. The book is long and some anecdotal chapters about Mini Review Dennis Lehane was the first really good author I had read and coming back to him after a couple of years, the first thing that strikes me is he is one of those rare authors who improve with every book. His writing is nuanced and he has got a perfectionist's dedication when it comes to choosing words. The characters are multi faceted while the protagonists are specially well written managing to be realistic and heroic at the same time. The book is long and some anecdotal chapters about Babe Ruth could have been done away with without much impact on the narrative, but I did not mind them cause they were never boring. What bothered me in the last third was that the focus shifted to real events from American history while the main narrative felt shoehorned into a climax that came out of nowhere. It was too much of a plot device in a book where the plot had flowed organically till then. Without possessing even some rudimentary knowledge about the historical events depicted here I wished the book had either given a more thorough background on the main real life players (specially in case of Boston police strike) or stuck completely to a character driven crime epic. Ultimately it just misses that balance but still is a very good book that does justice to the many different topics of racism, class divide, unrequited love, morality and friendship. Rating - 4/5. ...more The Given Day easily gets 4 Stars for the excellent, vivid characters we follow through 1918-1919 in Boston and other points west. The main characters are an Irish police family in Boston and a young black family separated between Oklahoma and Boston. The terrible flu epidemic of 1918 and the Boston Police Strike of 1919 are main events. Growing labor unions, anarchists, terrorists, socialist and communist political threads all contribute to a turbulent time. Strangely, Lehane threads a parallel The Given Day easily gets 4 Stars for the excellent, vivid characters we follow through 1918-1919 in Boston and other points west. The main characters are an Irish police family in Boston and a young black family separated between Oklahoma and Boston. The terrible flu epidemic of 1918 and the Boston Police Strike of 1919 are main events. Growing labor unions, anarchists, terrorists, socialist and communist political threads all contribute to a turbulent time. Strangely, Lehane threads a parallel story involving Babe Ruth at various points. It was very weird and had little impact on the main story. The book was bloated but I found myself flying through it, so I did not mind. I wish he would have spent more time on the flu epidemic and how the society dealt with it. The police strike is covered in more detail. Sometimes a union is the only way to deal effectively with an overbearing employer. The police certainly had cause for action. However, the strike wound up being a bad deal for the strikers as they all lost their jobs. A common idea still valid today is that government unions cannot strike. The Boston strike resulted in criminals running unchallenged and general civil disorder in the city. The part of the book that struck me so hard was the depiction of life for the African-American community. The casual racism of everyday life was shown but also the evil that could be done with impunity. The racism inherent in Boston also plays a large role, not only against blacks but Irish against Italians against Jews against whomever. Lehane can paint evil so vividly and he does it here. This is historical fiction and it is great fiction, although not so great history. Lehane lets his progressive politics inform his writing and he lists Howard Zinn\u2019s history as one of his primary sources\u2014minus a star for that. I like history to be more accurate but damn, he writes well. Danny, Luther, Lila, Nora...all great characters you will come to care about. This is one of those books that transports you back in time and makes you wonder...could I have survived back then? ...more This book gets four stars just for holding my interest over 700+ pages, flawed though it was. And it was, unfortunately, flawed. Other reviewers pointed out the mediocre characterization, the book's overstuffed nature, its anachronistic tendencies, and some of the more contrived plot twists. And it really was too long. But still. Dennis Lehane writes killer scenes, and between that, some interesting dilemmas, and the well-paced plot, I was hooked. Danny Coughlin, son of a high-ranked Boston polic This book gets four stars just for holding my interest over 700+ pages, flawed though it was. And it was, unfortunately, flawed. Other reviewers pointed out the mediocre characterization, the book's overstuffed nature, its anachronistic tendencies, and some of the more contrived plot twists. And it really was too long. But still. Dennis Lehane writes killer scenes, and between that, some interesting dilemmas, and the well-paced plot, I was hooked. Danny Coughlin, son of a high-ranked Boston police official, works for peanuts as a police officer and eventually gets involved in the events leading up to the Boston Police strike of 1919. Luther Laurence, married in a shotgun wedding to his pregnant girlfriend in Tulsa, gets embroiled in a dangerous gangster struggle and is forced to flee to Boston where he ends up working for Danny's family. In several surprisingly readable interludes, we get the perspective of Babe Ruth going through episodes of his own. It may not sound like 700 pages' worth, but there was actually a lot happening here. Both personally and professionally, Danny evolves in the book from following orders and going the conventional route to being his own man. Luther eventually achieves more agency over his fate as well as more maturity. And while I usually hate historical fiction's incorporation of famous figures, especially in a speculative way, especially when they make cameos in apparently superfluous episodes, the Babe Ruth thing actually kind of worked for me (and I hate baseball!). Finally, I learned a great deal about an unfamiliar period of history, information which was incorporated not seamlessly per se, but better than in many other historical fiction books I've read. I don't know whether I can recommend this book unequivocally, but this is definitely an author I want to check out again. Many other goodreads reviewers report that his other novels are far superior to this one, and I look forward to discovering them. ...more", "Title": "The Given Day"},
