{"Comments": "\"Greed, Corruption, and Dishonesty Lose Out\" This is the third and last story of \"The King Trilogy.\" I've read the first two,<---M> which are excellent</---M>, but this one is the BEST! I loved it! In this last episode, Kerri King has become legendary on Wall Street. She is now the president and CEO of Iacardi and Sons, commodities brokers, with offices in the South Tower of the World Trade Center. She should be at work today, Tuesday, but she's down with a with a severe case of influenza. It's September 11, \"Greed, Corruption, and Dishonesty Lose Out\" This is the third and last story of \"The King Trilogy.\" I've read the first two, which are excellent, but this one is the BEST! I loved it! In this last episode, Kerri King has become legendary on Wall Street. She is now the president and CEO of Iacardi and Sons, commodities brokers, with offices in the South Tower of the World Trade Center. She should be at work today, Tuesday, but she's down with a with a severe case of influenza.<---F> It's September 11, 2001</---F>. Her life is spared, but her company is being ripped and torn apart as the building is struck by a huge hijacked Boeing 767, Flight 175. In London, Peter Tavaris, a senior trader for Iacardi postpones the conference so he can follow the news of the NYC disaster. He has frequently been passed over by Charles Iacardi for senior management positions and also as president in favor of Kerri King. He hates women, especially Kerri and has a vindictive core. Kerri's dad, Mike King, and his wife Karen arrive home to Muskoka, Canada. At 59 years old, he's been successful with his XG Petroleum company by its growth into a national chain. He and Karen now have time to enjoy slowing down a bit since Golden National Oil has 50 percent interest in XG. They are aboard their 21-foot Donzi boat headed for Azimuth Island which his wife has inherited from her late parents. The large three-lake area is the retreat area for the rich and famous to enjoy their multi-million dollar cottages. Kerri is devastated about the destruction of the South Tower in which of her 346 employees, only four have survived. She needs to talk to her dad about the 186 million dollars left from a settlement with the government over oil sales back in 1991. Miles Dennis, her mentor at Iacardi who has died in the attack, had moved that money to Switzerland as Mike didn't want anything to do with it. But now Miles is dead and the only people who know about that money is Mike, Karen, and Kerri who's the sole owner of that account. Kerri wants to use that money to help the families of the Iacardi employees who had died on 9-11. But no one knows if that money is hot or cold, and there would be questions when that money came back into the United States. She wishes to give it all away, equally to each family, as an anonymous donor. Sounds like a plan? Yes, but someone is going to try to get Kerri tagged perhaps for tax evasion on those funds over the last ten years. Would it be Tavaris who is contacted by an old classmate who wants to buy Iacardi, only in a stock exchange, no cash. Kerri holds only three percent of the stock, but Tavaris is adamant to seal this proposed deal, even if it means burying her in dirty laundry, or a grave. This is an easy to read story I could not put down. It's compelling, extraordinary, finely honed, and sometimes even heartbreaking. But I read it to the very end, and the last two words made me laugh out loud! There is nothing boring about this exemplary novel written by very talented <---A>Stephen Douglass</---A>. I hope he is working on another book to thrill me. Give it a shot, it will inspire you! ...more \"<+++>Kerri's War</+++> (<---B>The King Trilogy</---B>)\" by Stephen Douglass is both moving as it is gripping. The story begins with the terror attack on the twin towers on 9/11, in which our protagonist Kerri King loses almost all of her employees. The opening sequence is very powerful and sets up the Kerri character very well. Determinded to use all funds available to look after the families left behind by the tragedy she has to battle her own business partners and other enemies to achieve her selfless goal. But in t \"<+++>Kerri's War</+++> (The King Trilogy)\" by Stephen Douglass is both moving as it is gripping. The story begins with the terror attack on the twin towers on 9/11, in which our protagonist Kerri King loses almost all of her employees. The opening sequence is very powerful and sets up the Kerri character very well. Determinded to use all funds available to look after the families left behind by the tragedy she has to battle her own business partners and other enemies to achieve her selfless goal. But in the world of profit and mercenary interests this becomes an uphill struggle. The book is very well written with sound knowledge of company procedures and the financial market. Kerri is a great main character to pull the plot along, particularly since she has a family and love life that adds to the richness of the plot. If you ever have worked for a great company you will probably recognise and appreciate the well chosen characters and Kerri's opponents. The book is a great finish to the trilogy, powerful, convincing and inspiring. ...more Fantastic story,writing the best ever. I'm not ready for this series to be over. Its not that the series wasn't wrapped up well in this third book (which it was), but I am so invested in the characters that I want to follow them to the end of their days. This book has excitement, suspense, romance, and kept me engaged throughout the story. The characters were really interesting people, the premise, though fiction, seems entirely plausible. I just can't get enough of this series. I would totally read any prequels, in-between books, or I'm not ready for this series to be over. Its not that the series wasn't wrapped up well in this third book (which it was), but I am so invested in the characters that I want to follow them to the end of their days. This book has excitement, suspense, romance, and kept me engaged throughout the story. The characters were really interesting people, the premise, though fiction, seems entirely plausible. I just can't get enough of this series. I would totally read any prequels, in-between books, or anything else related to this series. I listened to the Audible audio version of the book, and the narrator never fails to deliver. He has unique voices for each of the characters, but then his \"narrator\" voice almost sounds like a news reporter, which makes the whole story seem all the more real. I'm sad to reach the end of this series, and want to recommend it to anyone who enjoys a gripping story with a plot line that is a little different than most of the stuff out there. Kudos, Stephen Douglass. ...more Another page turner by Stephen Douglass. This is the final book in the Kingl trilogy. I can't figure out why there has to be just the three. There is potential for many more. I hate that it's ending. Of all three, I believe this is my favorite one. Each book stands alone, even though the collection is a trilogy. I love the character, Kerri. Mr. Douglass has done an excellent job with both plot and character development. Jeffrey Archer couldn't have done it better. Thanks for bringing us this won Another page turner by Stephen Douglass. This is the final book in the Kingl trilogy. I can't figure out why there has to be just the three. There is potential for many more. I hate that it's ending. Of all three, I believe this is my favorite one. Each book stands alone, even though the collection is a trilogy. I love the character, Kerri. Mr. Douglass has done an excellent job with both plot and character development. Jeffrey Archer couldn't have done it better. Thanks for bringing us this wonderful trilogy, Mr. Douglass. Now write something else. ...more * A Few Spoilers * The Plot Thickens.. The story centers around Kerri King who is now the president and CEO of Lacardi and Sons. She had a series case of influenza on September 11, 2001 but she pulls through it right when 911 happens. In London, Peter Tavaris, a senior trader for Lacardi postpones the conference so he can follow the news of the NYC disaster. He has frequently been passed over by Charles Lacardi for senior management positions and also as president in favor of Kerri King. He does No * A Few Spoilers * The Plot Thickens.. The story centers around Kerri King who is now the president and CEO of Lacardi and Sons. She had a series case of influenza on September 11, 2001 but she pulls through it right when 911 happens. In London, Peter Tavaris, a senior trader for Lacardi postpones the conference so he can follow the news of the NYC disaster. He has frequently been passed over by Charles Lacardi for senior management positions and also as president in favor of Kerri King. He does Not like women, especially Kerri since he was passed over. Miles Dennis, Kerri's mentor at Lacardi who has died in the attack, he had moved that money to Switzerland because Mike didn't want anything to do with it. But now Miles is dead and the only people who know about that money is Mike, Karen, and Kerri who's the sole owner of that account. Kerri wants to use that money to help the families of the Lacardi employees who had died on 9-11. But no one knows if there would be questions when that money came back into the United States. Kerri wishes to give it all away, equally to each family, as an anonymous donor. but someone is going to try to get Kerri in trouble for tax evasion.. This was an engaging read with enough twists and turns to keep you wanting to read until the very end. Overall, this was a good read and an excellent ending to the Trilogy. Mathias Lenssen did really well with the narration for this book and the entire Trilogy... Note: \"This audio book was provided by the author, narrator, or publisher at no cost in exchange for an unbiased review.\" ...more This is the third and final book in the King Trilogy. If at all possible it was better then the first two which I loved. Again the action is non stop and at times heart stopping! The events of 911 figure prominently in this novel. A company, with the exception of 4 people is decimated. Corporate intrigue, all too common in our investment world interspersed with corporate greed and shenanigans will have you thinking twice about putting your hard earned money onto investments. Kelli King, the Pres This is the third and final book in the King Trilogy. If at all possible it was better then the first two which I loved. Again the action is non stop and at times heart stopping! The events of 911 figure prominently in this novel. A company, with the exception of 4 people is decimated. Corporate intrigue, all too common in our investment world interspersed with corporate greed and shenanigans will have you thinking twice about putting your hard earned money onto investments. Kelli King, the President of the decimated company wants to help all the families--she has the means and against all odds finally rids her family of the ill gotten gains of Servito, her father's wife's first husband. But against all the odds will Kelli ever find true love and peace in her life? What is the cost of her honesty and integrity? Read this entire trilogy from Book 1 to Book 3 and read this fascinating account of a family over generations. Kerri's War ...more \u201cThis audiobook was given by the author, narrator, or publisher at no cost in exchange for an unbiased review via Audiobook Boom.\u201d The third and final book in the King trilogy. After Sept. 11th attacks, Kerri King must try and re-build her company. Fast paced and action packed, lots of suspense to see who will prevail. The narration was well done.The characters were well portrayed. This book is moving and gripping. The terror attack on the twin towers on 9/11, whereby Kerri King loses almost all of her employees. a very powerful touching read very well authored by Stephen. Enjoyed and recommended. 3.5 stars Remember, 3 stars means \"I liked it.\" And I did like it. It was a very interesting trilogy, and I definitely recommend it. On the plus side, it has mostly great pacing, and suspense throughout. Kerri is a great, lovable character. On the minus side, sometimes the fast pace comes to a screeching halt, such as when Kerri's mom got married. After a few paragraphs, I had to skip several pages to get past all of the unnecessary wedding details, like all the yawn-inducing speeches. (In the last 3.5 stars Remember, 3 stars means \"I liked it.\" And I did like it. It was a very interesting trilogy, and I definitely recommend it. On the plus side, it has mostly great pacing, and suspense throughout. Kerri is a great, lovable character. On the minus side, sometimes the fast pace comes to a screeching halt, such as when Kerri's mom got married. After a few paragraphs, I had to skip several pages to get past all of the unnecessary wedding details, like all the yawn-inducing speeches. (In the last wedding scene, the entire guest list was included. Hey, thanks for that. Fascinating read, that was. NOT. Of course, I skipped that too.) Douglass is clearly not a professional author, and because of that, I have to congratulate him on such a good job writing this trilogy. It had to have been a hell of an undertaking for a first-time author. But I also have to advise him to get the book edited! And I'm not just talking about the typos, or the words he breaks into two, like \"boy friend\" when he meant \"boyfriend\" and many other similar words. Sometimes there are sentences that are just badly written, or overly descriptive. Like during a car chase scene when the bad catches up with the fleeing car, it says he moved his car \"to a position parallel to and to the right of it.\" He could've just said he \"pulled up beside them.\" Right? I urge the author to give his trilogy the polish it deserves and hire an editor, or at least a proofreader. It's a shame to put so much time and work into something just to leave it a little rough around the edges. I regret that it's much easier to go on and on about the bad things in a book, so I'll stop here, but also point out to any potential readers that although the writing is annoying at times, it's still a really good and enjoyable story. I wonder how much of it is based on actual events from the author's time in the oil and gas industry. If you like really long, generation-spanning stories, I recommend The King Trilogy. Lots of action, suspense, and romance that takes place around the world. Good job, Mr. Douglass. I hope you keep writing. ...more I very much dislike it when a character behaves illogically and out of character simply to add suspense to the story. It makes the story blatantly contrived and unrealistic. And this story is seriously guilty of this unpleasant literary technique. The story is suspenseful, but it's a false sense of suspense. The story would be greatly improved if the author had spent more time and words developing the characters and less on artificial actions and behaviors. Mathias Lenssen's performance is satis I very much dislike it when a character behaves illogically and out of character simply to add suspense to the story. It makes the story blatantly contrived and unrealistic. And this story is seriously guilty of this unpleasant literary technique. The story is suspenseful, but it's a false sense of suspense. The story would be greatly improved if the author had spent more time and words developing the characters and less on artificial actions and behaviors. Mathias Lenssen's performance is satisfactory, albeit overly dramatic. NOTE: I received a free copy of this audiobook in exchange for this unbiased review. ...more \u201cKerri\u2019s War\u201d takes a walk in the shadows of what appears privilege, but is rank with selfish purpose. Read full review in the 2013 Dec/Jan Holiday issue of InD\u2019tale Magazine. Author's guest post at my blog: http://bookfare.blogspot.com/2015/02/... Stephen Douglass<---C>Stephen Douglass</---C>", "Title": "Kerri's War"},
