{"Comments": "I really enjoyed the is book for the following reasons: 1. I learned a lot about the bravery of the Belgian resistance. At times, my jaw dropped when I read about the incredible risks they took to save downed Allied airmen. 2. The personal letters between the crew of the Susan Ruth and their loved ones back home brought the story to life. 3. Finding and interviewing the German pilot who shot down the American B-17 demonstrates the author's enthusiasm for research. 4. This isn't just a personal tribu I really enjoyed the is book for the following reasons: 1. I learned a lot about the bravery of the Belgian resistance. At times, my jaw dropped when I read about the incredible risks they took to save downed Allied airmen. 2. The personal letters between the crew of the Susan Ruth and their loved ones back home brought the story to life. 3. Finding and interviewing the German pilot who shot down the American B-17 demonstrates the author's enthusiasm for research. 4. This isn't just a personal tribute to the author's father, but a serious attempt to explain the air war in Europe, from the American point of view. In his video interview on Goodreads, the author says he was trying to appeal both to military historians and the general public. I would say he has succeeded with flying colours! ...<---F>more A powerful read</---F>. <---A>Steve Snyder</---A>'s passion to tell the story of his father certainly shines through. The small details of the training and the equipment brought it all alive. The descriptive prose is excellent and that takes right to the heart of the action over Germany. Highly recommended. [FULL DISCLOSURE: I received my copy of this book free from the author and/or publisher. I was not paid for this review and the opinion expressed is purely my own] SHOT DOWN: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruthis the story of the author's Father in World War II as a B-17 bomber pilot and his ordeals after being shot down over the Franco-Belgian border in February 1944. The book itself is 335 pages of text with an extensive sources list and index. The text is d [FULL DISCLOSURE: I received my copy of this book free from the author and/or publisher. I was not paid for this review and the opinion expressed is purely my own] SHOT DOWN: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruthis the story of the author's Father in World War II as a B-17 bomber pilot and his ordeals after being shot down over the Franco-Belgian border in February 1944. The book itself is 335 pages of text with an extensive sources list and index. The text is divided into 40,<---M> mostly short</---M>, topical chapters. The narrative describes the journey of the author's father to first becoming a bomber pilot and then chronicles his arrival in the ETO, his bombing missions, the loss if his aircraft, and the events and adventures of the crew of the B-17 as they struggled to survive both in hiding and as POWs. This story is a microcosm of what happened to thousands of US aircrew who were forced to crash-land or bail out of their aircraft in the course of the air war over Europe. The book starts out kind of slow with a description of the training process for bomber crewmen and extensive description of the B-17 and its components. If this type of stuff does not interest you then it will bore you but it is a necessary introduction to the bombing campaign. The B-17 was a remarkably tough aircraft and B-17 bomber crews did the lion's share of the US bombing in Europe during World War II and learning about how they worked and how they operated is important to the story. The crew of the Susan Ruth bailed out over the Belgo-Frankish border region. Many locals risked and some even gave their lives to help these men who were so far from home and fighting to liberate people they would mostly never meet. The crew was scattered after the shoot down and the author does a great job of telling the different threads of the story into one narrative without confusing the reader. This is not just one story but eight woven together, some shorter and some longer than others. What I found to be one of the best parts of the book was the final chapters where the surviving crew's liberation is discussed and then the reunions of later years. I found it especially compelling because I have been to a few of the sites mentioned in the book and it is very interesting to learn the backstory behind the memorials. A memorial without context is just stone but the context of the joy and agony behind the memorials brings them to life. The men of the crew endured much while waiting to be either repatriated or liberated and the story of their ordeals and the locals who helped them is inspiring, to say the least. The story of the Susan Ruth's crew happened hundreds of times all over occupied Europe and it is a story worth telling. Shot Down gets off to a slow start but picks up when the crew is trying to survive. The narrative flow well and the painstaking level of research is evident throughout the book. It is obvious that writing the book was a labor of love. It is excellently written and one of the most detailed accounts of the travails of downed airman I have ever read. I highly recommend this book, especially to those interested in the European Air War of World War II. ...more As the title suggests, Shot Down tells the story(s) of the B-17 Flying Fortress Susan Ruth and its crew. If you\u2019ve ever wondered what it was like to pilot a flying fortress, you are about to find out. Snyder displays an impressive knowledge of the subject matter and is keen to present his story with a high degree of historical accuracy. The stories are based around the experiences of his father, and Snyder\u2019s passion for the subject shows. He has left no stone unturned in his quest for authenticit As the title suggests, Shot Down tells the story(s) of the B-17 Flying Fortress Susan Ruth and its crew. If you\u2019ve ever wondered what it was like to pilot a flying fortress, you are about to find out. Snyder displays an impressive knowledge of the subject matter and is keen to present his story with a high degree of historical accuracy. The stories are based around the experiences of his father, and Snyder\u2019s passion for the subject shows. He has left no stone unturned in his quest for authenticity, and I must take my hat off to him for his Herculean effort. My biggest issue is the blurb \u2013 it seems rushed with excessive superlatives and grammatical niggles. I expected largely the same from the rest of the book; how wrong I was. Maybe it\u2019s because the work has been professionally edited and the blurb overlooked, but where it matters the writing quality is immaculate. Snyder shows us real photographs and letters, he gives us every technological detail, shows us how the people lived, and provides a real sense of the time period. I have read the other reviews on this book, one from a historian who has validated the historical details, and although I am no historian myself, I see no reason to question this. As such I feel it is near impossible to criticise this book, and I have no doubt that readers will not be disappointed. Exceptional work. ...more My reader friends know by now that I am a huge fan of WWII stories. Of course one of my favorites in this genre are WWII aviation stories. Since I was little I have been fascinated by aviation. Some day I plan to pick up again my flying lessons and finish getting my pilot's license. Ok. enough about my interests and back to the book. I thought the author did a very good job of sharing his father's story and that of the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth. The B17 is a four-engine heavy bomber aircraft t My reader friends know by now that I am a huge fan of WWII stories. Of course one of my favorites in this genre are WWII aviation stories. Since I was little I have been fascinated by aviation. Some day I plan to pick up again my flying lessons and finish getting my pilot's license. Ok. enough about my interests and back to the book. I thought the author did a very good job of sharing his father's story and that of the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth. The B17 is a four-engine heavy bomber aircraft that was developed in the 1930s for the United States Army Air Corps (USAAC). Any one who is a fan of these types of books will enjoy this book. You don't have to have any knowledge of aviation or this time period as the author shares facts about history from the war, to the crew, his father, and the different positions that each crew member held. Yet, the author finds a nice balance between sharing historical facts and keeping it short without becoming dry. Also, the author shared his father's writing, so he had a voice as well in this book. It helped make me grow closer to the Snyders's. This is a fascinating read. ...more This thoroughly engaging non-fiction story of the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth, shot down over Belgium on February 8th, 1944 is one of the most worthwhile reads anyone interested in WWII history and the air battles will ever find. It's extensively researched, well-laced with photographs and a description of the daily life of the airmen of the Eight Air Force Bomber Groups, without sinking into sentimentalism and shock for the sake of shock. If you want to get an idea of what people lived through u This thoroughly engaging non-fiction story of the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth, shot down over Belgium on February 8th, 1944 is one of the most worthwhile reads anyone interested in WWII history and the air battles will ever find. It's extensively researched, well-laced with photographs and a description of the daily life of the airmen of the Eight Air Force Bomber Groups, without sinking into sentimentalism and shock for the sake of shock. If you want to get an idea of what people lived through under the hobnailed Nazi boot in occupied countries helping the airmen who were trying to set them free, this is one book you shouldn't miss. I just re-read it, and found it just as good as when I first read it. ...more The revised, edited version first . . . If I could only write one thing of which I am a diehard fan my immediate answer would be aircraft, specifically Boeing\u2019s B-17 Flying Fortress. My love affair with these planes started when I was young with a TV series about a fictitious English hamlet, Archbury, England, with an American bomber group (the 918th) commanded initially by Brigadier General Frank Savage, and later commanded by Colonel Paul Gallagher. The first commander and the entire, initial The revised, edited version first . . . If I could only write one thing of which I am a diehard fan my immediate answer would be aircraft, specifically Boeing\u2019s B-17 Flying Fortress. My love affair with these planes started when I was young with a TV series about a fictitious English hamlet, Archbury, England, with an American bomber group (the 918th) commanded initially by Brigadier General Frank Savage, and later commanded by Colonel Paul Gallagher. The first commander and the entire, initial setting was originally written as a novel, Twelve O\u2019clock High! , written by Beirne Lay, Jr. and Sy Bartlet , as well as which first became a 1949 motion picture of the same name starring Gregory Peck, Hugh Marlowe, Dean Jagger, and Gary Merrill. The planes flown in all of the iterations of Twelve O\u2019clock High! were always either B-17F or B-17G variants. Of course, little kids could not read the books since they contained bad language and sometimes mature behavior not meant for the eyes of youngsters still in elementary school. We made models of the B-17s and the P-51 fighters, all 1/72 scale to match up with our outfits of the same scale soldiers and Matchbox military vehicles. We played for hours with these items, blissfully unaware that our fathers had both fought in World War II and our grandmother had worked in a plant making the 500-pound General Purpose bombs the very planes dropped on Nazi held Europe. The children we were matured as all things in an ideal world are supposed to be. We got old enough to remember the names and authors of books we wanted to read when we \u201cgrew up.\u201d Our ideal world was suddenly, and irrevocably, transformed into a world of death, destruction, attrition, hardship, Final Solutions, and unspeakable horrors that no one should ever have to behold in any way whatsoever. As our youth matured into teenagers and eventually high school graduates, I experienced a 10-minute event on my way to work my first year in college, an event that was to bring back forever the feelings I had for B-17s. On one of the clear days in early fall, I was riding my bike when an unusual, life-changing moment occurred. I heard a low rumble coming from behind me, like something I had never heard before. I slowed down, pulled off the roadway beside an open field where I parked my bike, and I turned to see what was the source of the rumble. The volume increased couple with an almost earth-moving vibration, I saw an apparition. It was almost certainly something that shouldn\u2019t be flying since it was the 1970\u2019s, and World War II was 3 decades, almost twice my age, in the past. But there it was serenely, with stately grace, moving though the sky. It was an actual B-17G flying. My heart raced, my eyes watered with tears of absolute elation, and I stood mesmerized by the sight of this real piece of flying history. Any thought of forgetting my childhood imaginings about these planes was soon hammered into cold steel and fabric truth as I watched the plane in full World War II colors with what looked like guns in all the positions as there should be. I watched as it continued moving to the south away from me, and I resumed my trip. But that was just the beginning\u2026 Now we are well over seven decades beyond the war, but still there are a few of the old airplanes lovingly restored to flying status and presented for rides and walk-throughs for a price to help defray the costs of fuel, oil, and all the other components that these machines need to operate safely and efficiently as they did so long ago, in other places and other conditions, far less hospitable that the air shows and fly-ins of today. Even in the interim from my \u201cfirst sighting\u201d until last week\u2019s air show, I am still enamored with these stately craft of bygone times. In the interim since my first siting, I had gone to college where history was my first teaching field, followed by political science, and I taught for 35 years in the local school district, and with that training as well as a private pilot\u2019 license, I am able to appreciate not only the airplanes themselves appreciate but also well written biography and history. Those loves have led me to a book like I had never found before, a book that told the story of B-17s and their crews, about a war three quarters of a century in the past, and how these planes and men still remember the way it was. This new book did not just tell a story, but it set me on a course of far greater understanding about what it was we were really fighting for in World War II, for example, what was so bad about Adolf Hitler (plenty as we have all learned), why did we use the planes and bombs and execute the destruction of the Axis Powers (exceptionally good ones as again we all have learned), and what better way to learn all these things, even immerse oneself in all of these situations to help the reader know by other\u2019s eyes and experiences, just exactly what was World War II all about. Now we come to the culmination of my musings about my past with B-17s, not all of that past, but without going into more detail, the book is what you want to know about so, here we go. It is <+++>Shot Down: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth</+++> by Steve Snyder . The things I look for in written history are use of primary sources. These sources are those documents prepared by the actual people who made them, using the actual documents from the time, the characters\u2019 stories as they either wrote them down at the time in letters and diaries, the reports of exploits in which the characters participated, and the supporting information to lend substance, context, and undeniable validity to the characters recounting the events and their participation in them. These are considered to be the primary source documents that a writer must research in order to convey a valid, accurate picture that resonates with the images the reader has in the mind\u2019s eye about what things were then as previously learned by other means. After the written primary sources, next the researcher should consider any available oral primary sources, interviews with the actual participants if they are available and willing to help recount their stories from memory, or their knowledge of the original letters, diaries, and other written primary source documents to gather their insight, thoughts, decisions, and general how were in that past they were so diligently writing into the documents or tales they are telling you the reader as conveyed by the author. The oral history must be obtained remembering that the farther away from the events the more likely to see changes that might not be reflected in written sources made at the time. The second source constellation to be considered is the written documentation made and kept by the other actors in the story \u2013 log books, diaries, combat debriefing, court records of deeds alleged and confirmed or denied, and other writers\u2019 historical recounting of the way things were from their perspective, hopefully from several perspectives. The search here is for verification and validation of the primary source documents both aural and visual information obtained from them. These secondary sources will be those that are recorded by persons not immediately involved in the events but the chroniclersos of the principal characters, the other players, doctors, debriefing staff, intelligence officers and their records and recounting of events as recorded within hours after the actual time or as the primary source parties remember those events now, understanding that things might not be as crisp and memorable with the passage of time, or maybe they may see things differently, lending another aspect to the reality of then that is more in line with things you the writer might not have considered, and which you, the reader, look for so you can see the perspectives in 360 degree surround sound and ultra high definition. So how does <+++>Shot Down: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth</+++> by Steve Snyder measure up? In three words: totally, grippingly, real. This is the stuff that historians and lovers of history long to see in written form. A story about people following their experiences, good and bad, their desires, their longings, their ups and their tragedies, their remembrances of the life they lived, the sacrifices they made, and the decisions that formed their character for all time. Mr. Snyder writes with clarity, passion, compassion, and a reflection of the events he is researching and writing about in such a way as the words on the page play an on-going movie of the mind for the reader. He describes events in such detail you can feel the heat of the desert training sites, the cold, damp, clammy weather that is England in so many ways, the excitement of flying, and the sheer terror of aerial combat against determined adversaries bent on one thing: destroying you before your side destroys them. Mr. Snyder ensures that the story from the characters\u2019 perspectives are verified by the cool reporting of others in their logs and diaries and after-action reports so that you as the reader are clearly, decisively, and unfalteringly convinced of the honesty and truth of what you are reading. This is history as real as it gets, but it has something else that comes through . . . That something is a humanity, a living breathing life of the story itself, of the men, and women, the crew members working as a team and almost as a second family thrust together by the terror, danger, risk, calamity, and reality that was the war in the air. There are many historical retellings of the events from War Diaries gleaned from log books and mission reports, but there is rarely a story that touches the reader as deeply and as discerningly as Mr. Snyder \u2019s book about his father and what it was like to be away from family, safety, warmth, good food, clean conditions and attire to wear, and with the ever present danger of being discovered miles deep in enemy territory with mountain ranges, oceans, and hundreds of miles from anything even closely resembling some modicum of civil thought, caring, support, and peace. The story is at times heartbreaking when a comrade is lost or worse, dies in your arms. It is heartbreaking when you read the first person accounts of living through the ever present fear of being tortured, starved, or slaughtered by heartless automatons of a sadistic, cruel dictator. Real as it gets, dear reader? That is Shot Down: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth . Shot Down is also a story of the humanity of the Belgian people who helped the prisoners with their compassion, sharing their meager fare with total strangers who only differed from the occupation forces by their uniforms, character, and sincere wish to get back to comrades, friends, and friendly territory. The humanity of crews working together to help each other from first aid to fire control and suppression, from helping one another to protecting the plane in which they all flew and which they hoped would bring them back from the terror and danger of aerial combat. You will know as you complete the book the debts that are felt by the crews who were helped, the love and caring of the Belgian and French people for those they helped who joined with them, in Howard\u2019s case, as he fought beside those in the Resistance to try to stop the Germans and to aid and support the prisoners who escaped. As the effects of D-Day occurred and the tide of war turned, the liberators came to each hamlet in turn after the success of the 1944 invasion in Normandy, the final invasion of the European continent with a distance that was smaller to get to the heart of the danger and slay the purveyor of the one of the greatest cases of genocide ever waged on this world. In the final analysis what is there left to say? Of course, my recommendations to others about this book. Shot Down: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth is one of the best books bar none that I have ever read, and I have read a few, not as many as some and more than others. Steve Snyder has researched and presented an amazing story about an intrepid airman and his crew, Howard Snyder and the crew members of the Susan Ruth. His presentation is honest, forthright, and clear. The topics are supported by solid, factual and sobering information from impeccable sources. This one book I can highly recommend to anyone who wants to read a war diary unlike many out there. It stands as one of the top biographies I have ever read, and it is clearly deserving of the 5 stars I have to offer. Finally, Steve Snyder has paid the ultimate compliment to his father by telling this amazing story. It is a celebration of all that Howard accomplished and how he did his part to help bring about the victory that the Allies fought so hard to achieve. It was not without loss, and for several tens of days it looked like Howard was among the missing, but his tenacity, bravery, wit, and courage held true enabling him to carry on in the bravest tradition of the U.S. Army and its World War II Air Forces. Steve Snyder has written a clear recounting of his father\u2019s comrades with whom he fought his part of World War II. It is difficult to take in some places where executions were the norm in the woods of Belgium, and the harsh wasteland that was Germany in the waning days of World War II. Steve Snyder is a wonderful story teller with a great and wonderful story to tell. You can almost hear those four-engine behemoths flying on to victory yet today, still making way for brighter tomorrows for each and every one of us. Thank you, Howard and Steve, for helping us appreciate the sacrifice and service that was rendered by our troops in Europe during World War II. It was an amazing ride. Review of Steve Snyder's Shot Down! The Story of Pilot Howard Snyder and the Crew of the B-17, Susan Ruth by Richard Buro is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License . Based on a work at https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23171636-the-true-story-of-pilot-howard-snyder-and-the-crew-of-the-b-17-susan-rut . Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available at http://SteveSnyderAuthor.com . ...more The Last Word Review: As the title suggests, this is the true story of what happened to the B-17 bomber 'Susan Ruth' and its crew. The difference is it is written by the Pilots Son so it is a very personal account. The crews of the B-17 bombers were some of the bravest, flying daylight missions over enemy territory, hitting important targets to deplete Germany's fighting capacity so many young men were lost flying deadly missions over Germany and occupied Europe. On February 8, 1944 Howard Snyder The Last Word Review: As the title suggests, this is the true story of what happened to the B-17 bomber 'Susan Ruth' and its crew. The difference is it is written by the Pilots Son so it is a very personal account. The crews of the B-17 bombers were some of the bravest, flying daylight missions over enemy territory, hitting important targets to deplete Germany's fighting capacity so many young men were lost flying deadly missions over Germany and occupied Europe. On February 8, 1944 Howard Snyder's B-17 was shot down over the France/Belgium border so here is the real story of 'Shot Down ' of what happened to the crew, this is no ordinary true story of Pilot Howard Snyder and the crew that was shot down while on a mission. Steve Snyder must be congratulated on the immense task in writing what is a truly an 'outstandingly detailed historical account' of what happened to his father. When you first open the book the author brings us some family history and then the incredible detailed account of what the crew and how they arrived in England and the training, also what went on behind the scenes with the crews of the B-17 Squadrons were they went during rare days off. This is not just an account of the crew, there is also the research that has gone into what it was like to fly a B-17 and the preparation of each mission and the detail of the aircraft is what makes this book such a vital historical piece of work. Then of course we must look at the bravery of each crew member and also the people on the ground who looked after those that made alive. Of the ten man crew some sadly died some were captured and taken prisoner and then there is Howard Snyder the Pilot of 'Susan Ruth' who evaded capture and was missing in action for seven months, this is what then happened. The story is emotional and packed with bravery and tragedy, the book is packed with photographs and letters from those involved. When you read the account of when the Bomber was hit and the crew had to bail out you become involved and share the sheer terror and confusion. Finally at the end of the War Howard Snyder pays tribute to those that sheltered him from being captured and how they put their own lived in danger by doing just that, knowing that if they were caught they would have been shot. Imagine if you can evading capture for seven months. This is truly an outstanding account and also an important account of what happened to the Crew and pays tribute to all those brave airmen that gave so much so that we could enjoy the freedom we take for granted today. If you enjoy reading military history, then this is one book you must add to your library. You will not be disappointed. Please visit Steve Snyder's website: stevesnyderauthor.com and further information can be obtained and there is articles and video interviews. HIGHLY RECOMMEDED. ...more Nate Sullivan, of War History Online, perfectly sums up Steve Snyder's well-executed story of B-17 pilot, Howard Snyder and his crew: \u201cA masterful work. Enjoyable for those interested in the Eighth Air Force and/or the B-17 Flying Fortress, but it is also broad enough to appeal to general history readers. Insightful, engrossing, and succeeds on every level. Bravo.\u201d Shot Down is not just a story, but a perfect memoir to the men that flew and cared for Susan Ruth, Howard Snyder's B-17, and to all th Nate Sullivan, of War History Online, perfectly sums up Steve Snyder's well-executed story of B-17 pilot, Howard Snyder and his crew: \u201cA masterful work. Enjoyable for those interested in the Eighth Air Force and/or the B-17 Flying Fortress, but it is also broad enough to appeal to general history readers. Insightful, engrossing, and succeeds on every level. Bravo.\u201d Shot Down is not just a story, but a perfect memoir to the men that flew and cared for Susan Ruth, Howard Snyder's B-17, and to all those that fought, flew and died during the Second World War. Not only to the Americans, either. Snyder's story is equally inclusive of Americans and Brits and does not do one more justice than the other \u2013 making sure that this book appeals to readers on both sides of the pond. It is in no way patronising, and it's simply written nature allows for readers of all interests. The amalgamation of story and historical facts is seamless, creating an informative and incredibly interesting read. You find yourself waiting eagerly for more humorous, loving and tear-jerking letters from Howard to his wife, Ruth and laughing at how nothing has really changed from young lovers then, to young lovers now. Snyder retells the tale of how Ruth became pregnant with Baby Susan in 1941; \u201cRuth pleaded with Howard, 'Let's not use anything just this once.'\u201d Snyder's perception of the British is absolutely spot-on and brings a smile to your face. The mere mention of Britain instantly brings the story home \u2013 it is no longer about a pilot from a far-away land. It starts to have far more substance and meaning for those in Britain. Snyder is sure to mention the prudishness of us Brits and, of course, the English weather; \u201cIt has rained every day that we have been in England.\u201d The mention of rations further aids the readers understanding of the cruelties of war. This is no longer a Hollywood-esque, love-struck tale of two young people surviving the war, it's a harsh reminder of what war does. No longer do you think of these men as young larks, having fun being pilots. The thought of Michael Caton-Jones' Memphis Belle (1990) slips away, and you find yourself resisting the urge to skip chapters to find out what happens to Howard Snyder and his crew. Steve Snyder has done an excellent job of documenting history in a fascinating and gripping way. This is a testimony to his parents, and all those who fought in the war. Definitely worth reading \u2013 just try and put it down. Buy from Amazon: http://www.amazon.co.uk/Shot-Down-Sto... ...more `It is our duty to remember' California author Steve Snyder studied and gained his BA in Economics at UCLA, using that training in national sales and sales management. Since retiring he has focused his fascination with World War II history, especially those of his father, pilot Howard Snyder and his crew of the B-17, Susan Ruth, named after his older sister. After nearly five years of research he penned SHOT DOWN, and for an `amateur historian' he has won awards and applause form distinguished au `It is our duty to remember' California author Steve Snyder studied and gained his BA in Economics at UCLA, using that training in national sales and sales management. Since retiring he has focused his fascination with World War II history, especially those of his father, pilot Howard Snyder and his crew of the B-17, Susan Ruth, named after his older sister. After nearly five years of research he penned SHOT DOWN, and for an `amateur historian' he has won awards and applause form distinguished authors and historians and he now participates in many World War II associations, in addition to being Vice President of the 306th Bomb Group Historical Association. In 1994 and 2004 he participated in the Anniversaries of the Liberation of Belgium. All of this comes home in this immensely interesting history of an important event too few of us know. Not only has Steve achieved a meticulously researched book, recreating this moment of military history when on February 8, 1944 The B-17 Flying Fortress Susan Roth was shot down, landing in Belgium, but he also molds an empathetic novel that allows the reader to be there, terrified and surviving along side men we come to know through Steve's exceptional writing. SHOT DOWN Shot Down was created from the vast number of letters and journals of Howard Snyder; diaries of men and women on the ground who rescued, sheltered and hid the crew; and interviews conducted by historians. The build up to the tragedy details training tactics, the increasing tension of the war as it built toward 1944, and the aftermath of the downing of the plane under the beneficent care of Lt. Howard Synder. There is more information here about the underground support of US troops in Europe and the interaction between the citizens of Belgium and the crews of airmen whom they aided in providing protection and friendship. Another aspect that makes this book so very fine is the inclusion of many photographs taken during the war, from intimate images of the crew members to planes in flight to battles to images of telegrams and letters - Steve covers his story pictorially as well as with the written word. This book is a film waiting to be optioned, one of the war films that hopefully will encourage us never to forget the valor of the fighting forces not only in WW II, but in all wars where men and women offer their lives for their country. Highly Recommended. ...more Author Steve Snyder pens the exciting true account of the WWII B-17 Susan Ruth and it\u2019s crew, piloted by his own father Howard Snyder. Utilizing information taken from personal letters, interviews, declassified military records and verbal and written accounts, Steve Snyder has crafted together a fascinating and incredibly vivid account of the life and events of the crew of the Susan Ruth throughout the bombing campaigns in Europe during WWII. Exhaustively researched and full of vibrant detail, Sn Author Steve Snyder pens the exciting true account of the WWII B-17 Susan Ruth and it\u2019s crew, piloted by his own father Howard Snyder. Utilizing information taken from personal letters, interviews, declassified military records and verbal and written accounts, Steve Snyder has crafted together a fascinating and incredibly vivid account of the life and events of the crew of the Susan Ruth throughout the bombing campaigns in Europe during WWII. Exhaustively researched and full of vibrant detail, Snyder gives the reader a very real feel for what it was like living in the tumultuous period of history- especially for the pilots and crew members. Shot Down follows the story of Howard Snyder, who recorded much of his harrowing story in a personal journal he kept, chronicling the events leading up to and including being shot down over Belgium, hidden from the Germans by local townspeople, and eventually making his way across the border into France to join the Maquis (French resistance fighters). Along with this journal, the author used extensive research to fill in any blanks and bring this full story to light. Even readers who aren\u2019t particularly drawn to books on history will appreciate the incredible tale of these true American heroes during one of the darkest periods the world has ever known. What I absolutely loved about this book was the author\u2019s remarkable attention to details in describing air combat and what it was like for the pilot and crew to be up in the air during a raid, the challenges they faced, and the hazards they had to overcome. Shot Down is a remarkable book that leaves the reader with a profound sense of awe and gratitude for all those who fought in WWII for the cause of freedom. A must-read, highly recommended! Rating: 5 stars I have received a free copy of this book from the author in exchange for an honest review. Check out this review on my blog: EpicBookQuest.com ...more I was able to read a copy of this from Netgalley.com,, wherein you are given free copies of books in exchange for objective reviews. I've read a few books about bomber pilots in WWII, (Wild Blue by Stephen Ambrose, Unbroken by Lauren Hillenbrand) and when I saw that this was written by the pilot's son rather than a historian, I was a little apprehensive. However, the book is extremely well-written. Steve Snyder masterfully weaves world events and what was happening in the war in other places int I was able to read a copy of this from Netgalley.com,, wherein you are given free copies of books in exchange for objective reviews. I've read a few books about bomber pilots in WWII, (Wild Blue by Stephen Ambrose, Unbroken by Lauren Hillenbrand) and when I saw that this was written by the pilot's son rather than a historian, I was a little apprehensive. However, the book is extremely well-written. Steve Snyder masterfully weaves world events and what was happening in the war in other places into the story to give it depth and context, making this a great read for those unfamiliar with WWII history as well as those who can't get enough of it. Howard and his crew weren't actually shot down until about halfway through the book, so you get to know the guys on the crew as they train and what their lives were like during bombing runs over Germany. The stress, discomfort, and danger that these young guys experienced is really humbling. When they are shot down, they are either killed immediately, taken prisoner, or hidden by the resistance in Belgium - an extremely dangerous and risky proposition. It was amazing that any of these brave young men made it home at all. This book was very well researched. Personal correspondence between crew members and their families, particularly Howard and his wife, made you feel as though you knew them. The author even found an account of their plane being shot down by one of the German pilots who was responsible. Highly recommended. ...more *I received this book from the publisher via NetGalley to review. I have always been interested in WW 2 and reading Steve Snyder's account of his father, Lieutenant Howard Snyder, brought not just another story to light. The author gave an honest and a very interesting and different perspective into what it was like to be a pilot of a B-17, dubbed the Flying Fortress. The set-up of the narrative, the openness and the details of the time was quite fresh and new to me. The details about the planes *I received this book from the publisher via NetGalley to review. I have always been interested in WW 2 and reading Steve Snyder's account of his father, Lieutenant Howard Snyder, brought not just another story to light. The author gave an honest and a very interesting and different perspective into what it was like to be a pilot of a B-17, dubbed the Flying Fortress. The set-up of the narrative, the openness and the details of the time was quite fresh and new to me. The details about the planes and military life never bored me and I never lost my interest, in fact I become more interested in WW2. It helped me to understand the era and I felt like I could easily place myself alongside a typical American pilot experiencing a not so typical war. I especially appreciated that the author wrote his book in a revealing way without being vulgar, coarse or full of gore. I like to hear about what happened \"over there\" but I can become quite squeamish with an author's mishandling of the topic. I found Steve Snyder handled all the afore mentioned items with much delicacy. The end and the acknowledgements were just the right touch and feel that I like in a book. Not often do I read acknowledgements in a book, I wanted more insight into the journey of this author and the legacy that was left to him by his father. Certainly well worth the read. ...more Shot Down presents the full horror of living through a war, both of the airmen and the civilians in the occupied countries. Steve Snyder's father did not talk much about his wartime experiences while Steve was growing up; after Howard Snyder's death, Steve researched events in England and in Belgium and France. Most participants in the war are no longer with us, which makes recording their stories so important. Much space is given to the historical context of the war, including the American invas Shot Down presents the full horror of living through a war, both of the airmen and the civilians in the occupied countries. Steve Snyder's father did not talk much about his wartime experiences while Steve was growing up; after Howard Snyder's death, Steve researched events in England and in Belgium and France. Most participants in the war are no longer with us, which makes recording their stories so important. Much space is given to the historical context of the war, including the American invasion of East Anglia, the expense of living in Britain, the Schweinfurt missions, Belgium's background in the early war days, V-Mail, the background of resistance groups etc. For someone well-versed in WWII, some of these rabbit trails can be skimmed quickly to get on with the story of the Susan Ruth. he crewmen of Susan Ruth had widely varying experiences after being shot down. Two died in battle before they were shot down, two successfully evaded, three were POWs (two of whom were repatriated because of serious wounds), and three were executed. They provide a chilling picture of what could happen to those who were forced to bail out over German territory. Shot Down should be required reading for high school and/or college students for an understanding of the price of our freedom. ...more I won this book from goodreads but that didn't influence my review in any way. I would recommend this book to anybody who was a pilot or had a friend or relative in the Airfare during WWII, especially if they flew over Belgium. The book is not only a story of the brave men of \"the greatest generation\" and their planes, but it is also a reference book that is jam packed with information and facts. There are details about the inside of the plane and the position of each man. Among many, many other I won this book from goodreads but that didn't influence my review in any way. I would recommend this book to anybody who was a pilot or had a friend or relative in the Airfare during WWII, especially if they flew over Belgium. The book is not only a story of the brave men of \"the greatest generation\" and their planes, but it is also a reference book that is jam packed with information and facts. There are details about the inside of the plane and the position of each man. Among many, many other things, I learned how the words flak SS, and other words came from the German. It is a living history book and good for any student of WWII history. The book details the fate of each man who flew missions with the author's father. It tells you if they were killed outright, captured, sent to concentration camps, and who came home. It describes how the underground of locals in Belgium watched for the U.S. pilots as they parachuted out of the planes and kept them safe. It also gives a prospective of being a war pilot from a young German flyer. I usually am not that into the fighting end of the war stories, but I found this book fascinating and so will you. Get a copy, read,enjoy and learn. ...more True story of the \"Susan Ruth\", a B-17 shot down over Belgium on February 8, 1944. The author's Dad was the pilot and on this fateful day, as the burning plane began to fall apart, each crew member suffered a distinctly different fate. What was especially endearing to me was the love story. Howard and Ruth married shortly before he went to war. Susan Ruth was their baby daughter, and of course there was no other name considered for his new flying fortress than hers. Steve is fortunate to have eve True story of the \"Susan Ruth\", a B-17 shot down over Belgium on February 8, 1944. The author's Dad was the pilot and on this fateful day, as the burning plane began to fall apart, each crew member suffered a distinctly different fate. What was especially endearing to me was the love story. Howard and Ruth married shortly before he went to war. Susan Ruth was their baby daughter, and of course there was no other name considered for his new flying fortress than hers. Steve is fortunate to have every letter that his Dad wrote home. I enjoyed reading about all his crew members' hi-jinks while Howard was writing to Ruth about how much he missed her and their daughter. He wasn't interested in anything but her. \"Shot Down\" takes us from England to the skies over occupied Europe to the underground resistance in Belgium and in France. These young men were struggling to stay two steps ahead of the Gestapo while the brave citizens of the small villages risked their lives to help them. Years later, the families of these citizens are still remembering with gratitude the young men who lived and died among them. ...more I was delighted to be given an opportunity to read this book. I have been reading around a lot of the subject matter of WWII and this synopsis immediately drew my attention, I do love a true story. I really loved the way that the book was written and the extracts from the authors father to his mother when he was overseas are touching and I feel privileged to have been able to read these. The descrptions in the book are fantastic and it really goes in to the detail of what it would have been like I was delighted to be given an opportunity to read this book. I have been reading around a lot of the subject matter of WWII and this synopsis immediately drew my attention, I do love a true story. I really loved the way that the book was written and the extracts from the authors father to his mother when he was overseas are touching and I feel privileged to have been able to read these. The descrptions in the book are fantastic and it really goes in to the detail of what it would have been like to be fearful of becoming a POW and the threat of being caught by the Nazi's that were patrolling over Belgium and France at the time. It really does bring it home what these servicemen went through to assist a wartorn country hundreds of miles from home. They truly were very brave gentlemen, I feel honoured to have been given an opprtunity to read an advance copy. I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more An excellent portrayal of the bombing runs of the second world war. Descriptions of riding inside a bomber over Germany, being attacked by German fighter planes, flying through flak and anti-aircraft fire. This is likely one of the most realistic accounts I have read and it answered many questions I have often pondered regarding formation flying and high altitude without pressurization. The additional details of being shot down and surviving with the help of underground resistance groups is a bo An excellent portrayal of the bombing runs of the second world war. Descriptions of riding inside a bomber over Germany, being attacked by German fighter planes, flying through flak and anti-aircraft fire. This is likely one of the most realistic accounts I have read and it answered many questions I have often pondered regarding formation flying and high altitude without pressurization. The additional details of being shot down and surviving with the help of underground resistance groups is a bonus. Being born in 1946 I was always curious about the war and have read countless books of the European action as well as the Pacific theater during WW2. Comparing as best my memory allows, of all the books I have read this one stands out. An excellent picture of the men and their flying machines their fears and the perils they faced. ...more I found this to be a wonderful book about the aviation effort of WWII, it really told a lot about what the pilots went through, the significant losses compared to other groups. But it also told the story of the author's father Howard, the pilot of the Susan Ruth, (named after Steve's sister). How he and his crew were shot down over Belgium that 8th of February, 1944, and what happens to everyone after that. Then it really gets good! But you'll have to get it and read it for yourself to find out w I found this to be a wonderful book about the aviation effort of WWII, it really told a lot about what the pilots went through, the significant losses compared to other groups. But it also told the story of the author's father Howard, the pilot of the Susan Ruth, (named after Steve's sister). How he and his crew were shot down over Belgium that 8th of February, 1944, and what happens to everyone after that. Then it really gets good! But you'll have to get it and read it for yourself to find out what all they endured, and all the things that happened with them. Its surely worth the read if you like this kind of book. ...more Historical account of the military career of First Lieutenant Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17G, named for Snyder's daughter Susan Ruth. Beginning with his enlistment in the US Army, the story follows Snyder through training, flight schools, missions over Europe, being shot down, being sheltered, service to The Maquis and finally liberation near the end of the war. It also chronicles the lives of his crew who endured capture, imprisonment and some death at the hands of German forces. Steve Historical account of the military career of First Lieutenant Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17G, named for Snyder's daughter Susan Ruth. Beginning with his enlistment in the US Army, the story follows Snyder through training, flight schools, missions over Europe, being shot down, being sheltered, service to The Maquis and finally liberation near the end of the war. It also chronicles the lives of his crew who endured capture, imprisonment and some death at the hands of German forces. Steve Snyder's painstaking research is evident as he details the events in Shot Down. Similar to Tom Brokaw's The Greatest Generation, it's clear our duty is to Never Forget. ...more Howard Snyder, pilot of the B-17 Susan Ruth was \"a little apprehensive\" when he learned that he and his crew would be taking the same position in flight formation of a bomber that had been lost in a similar raid on Frankfurt four days earlier... http://www.theusreview.com/reviews/Sh... Such an interesting story about the war and filled with such details. I felt as if I was living through it myself. After finishing this book, I want to learn more about my own father's time in the war. He was also a pilot and flew over the Hump. I have a book that includes many of the pilots, my father included, that flew over the Hump, that I will certainly read with more interest now. Interesting read, especially the supporting information on how Army Air Corps pilots were selected for plane type, training they went through for the B-17, even to the cold weather clothing they had to wear during their missions. Not really a 'war' story in itself, but more so a narrative of one plane, one crew, and their lives intertwined with the 'Susan Ruth'. A really good read. If you want to read an inspiring story then this book is for you. Author Steve Snyder has told a story of courage and sacrifice made by the crew of the Susan Ruth that should cause all Americans to thank God that there were such men as his father and his crew who were willing to fight for our freedoms. It is a very insightful story and very informative to those who love military history. Amazing read. This book kept me riveted from start to finish. Steve makes you feel like you are actually part of the crew with the details and descriptions of what these men endured. a must read for anyone who is interested in WWII! An amazing story of a B17 pilot who was shot down over Belgium and captured by the Germans and later escaped and was hidden by the Belgians. I also enjoyed the detailed description of the B17 Flying Fortresses and describes the conditions the crew went through in the bomber and on the missions. Great re An excellent historical and detailed account of the entire air war over Europe. Very interesting a d informative. I highly recommend. The writing was a bit awkward in places but the story was amazing. Overall, an unusual and eye-opening read. History buffs, particularly individuals interested in WWII pilot training, actual flight bombing / combat narratives, and tribulations of \"downed pilots\". will find this book fascinating and exceptionally well researched. I rated 4-stars simply because I struggled through some of the dialog, although not repetitious, was very detailed with similar themes. It is amazing what the pilots went through at very young ages, the responsibilities they took on, an Overall, an unusual and eye-opening read. History buffs, particularly individuals interested in WWII pilot training, actual flight bombing / combat narratives, and tribulations of \"downed pilots\". will find this book fascinating and exceptionally well researched. I rated 4-stars simply because I struggled through some of the dialog, although not repetitious, was very detailed with similar themes. It is amazing what the pilots went through at very young ages, the responsibilities they took on, and how locals risked their lives and their families lives to help and protect downed pilots\". ...more Shot Down: The True Story of Pilot Howard Snyder and the Crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth : Steve Snyder This is another factual yet fascinating account of pilots serving during WWII. Howard Snyder was the father of the author. I can only imagine what these brave flyers endured. The narration was well done by Richard Rieman.There were a few places where text was repeated. \"I was voluntarily provided this review copy audiobook at no charge by the author, publisher and/or narrator.\"<---C>Steve Snyder</---C>", "Title": "Shot Down: The true story of pilot Howard Snyder and the crew of the B-17 Susan Ruth"},
