{"Comments": "<+++>Bloody Jack: Being an Account of the Curious Adventures of Mary \"Jacky\" Faber, Ship's Boy</+++>The audio version of this book does exactly what an audio version should do - it not only gives voice to a darn good story, but it carries the reader/listener into the heart of the story. The audio version helps interpret the dialect that the story is written in, which also helps give Jacky her character in a palpable way. This book is made for audio - it has action, adventure,<---M> and emotion</---M>, all of which are vividly portrayed by the narrator (I forget her name right now, but I'll look it up.) All The audio version of this book does exactly what an audio version should do - it not only gives voice to a darn good story, but it carries the reader/listener into the heart of the story. The audio version helps interpret the dialect that the story is written in, which also helps give Jacky her character in a palpable way. This book is made for audio - it has action, adventure, and emotion, all of which are vividly portrayed by the narrator (I forget her name right now, but I'll look it up.) All this adds up to a fabulous audiobook that should win fans whenever it is popped into a CD player.<---F> The story is a rip-snorter, too</---F>. Mary is a poor orphan living on the streets when she decides to take the only talent she has, the ability to read, and to sign on to a ship. Disguised as a boy, she is able to transform into Jacky and to pull off the deception for several years even while living in close quarters on a British naval vessel. She has courage, even though she doesn't think she is brave. She has sass and a toughness that keeps her going under dire circumstances. This is a great YA novel for teens who like action and/or historical novels. ...more I loved this book. REminds me of the True COnfessions of Charolotte Doyle, btu for an older reader... From School Library Journal Grade 6-8-With the plague running rampant in London in 1797, Mary's parents and sister are soon counted among the dead. Left alone and penniless, the eight-year-old is taken in by a gang of orphans and learns survival skills. However, when their leader is killed, Mary decides to try her luck elsewhere. She strips the dead body, cuts her hair, renames herself Jack Fabe I loved this book. REminds me of the True COnfessions of Charolotte Doyle, btu for an older reader... From School Library Journal Grade 6-8-With the plague running rampant in London in 1797, Mary's parents and sister are soon counted among the dead. Left alone and penniless, the eight-year-old is taken in by a gang of orphans and learns survival skills. However, when their leader is killed, Mary decides to try her luck elsewhere. She strips the dead body, cuts her hair, renames herself Jack Faber, and is soon employed as a ship's boy on the HMS Dolphin. When the vessel sees its first skirmish with a pirate ship, her bravery saves her friend Jaimy and earns her the nickname \"Bloody Jack.\" Told by Mary/Jack in an uneven dialect that sometimes doesn't ring true, the story weaves details of life aboard the Dolphin. Readers see how she changes her disguise based on her own physical changes and handles the \"call of nature,\" her first experiences with maturation, and the dangers to boys from unscrupulous crew members. The protagonist's vocabulary, her appearance and demeanor, and her desire to be one of the boys and do everything they do without complaint complete the deception. This story also shows a welcome slant to this genre with an honorable, albeit strict Captain, and ship's mates who are willing and able teachers. If readers are looking for a rousing, swashbuckling tale of pirates and adventures on the high seas, this title falls short. However, it is a good story of a brave ship's \"boy\" with natural leadership abilities and a sense of fair play and humanity. ...more Oh, I am so disappointed! \"Bloody Jack\" was terrible. When I was checking it out, the librarian said something like \"Bloody Jack! That's a wonderful book!\". I'll never listen to her again; I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. Positives: 1) A strong anti-rape, anti-sodomy and anti-bully theme. 2) A strong sense of self, as in determining on your own how to act and what to do. 3) A reading-is-good message. 4) A balance of good male characters vs. bad male characters. Negatives: 1)Older subject Oh, I am so disappointed! \"Bloody Jack\" was terrible. When I was checking it out, the librarian said something like \"Bloody Jack! That's a wonderful book!\". I'll never listen to her again; I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. Positives: 1) A strong anti-rape, anti-sodomy and anti-bully theme. 2) A strong sense of self, as in determining on your own how to act and what to do. 3) A reading-is-good message. 4) A balance of good male characters vs. bad male characters. Negatives: 1)Older subject matter targeted for 9-12 year olds: the constant dwelling on naked boys, body parts and functions, rape, sodomy, etc., I found a bit much. Maybe this was done on purpose to target young boys, but I think that it was overdone. 2)Zero positive female role models. Aside from the protagonist Jacky, there is not one single positive female influence in the book. You might think \"well, its a book about one girl on a ship with hundreds of men and boys\". But the first ~50 pages are about her in a street gang that includes girls, but she is not close to any of them. After she is on the ship, she has shore leave a couple of times, but the only woman that she talks to is a whore. Her mother is only mentioned in passing memory. 3) Very simplistic girl stereotypes: If I was a girl, I would be offended at the way Jacky is protrayed in this book. 3a) With very little instruction, Jacky can sew very well, even making dresses from ones that she has seen, with no patterns. 3b) Jacky is constantly crying or holding back tears and having emotional outbursts. 3c) Despite having lived in street gangs with other girls until she was twelve, Jacky has no idea what is happening when she gets her first period. She thinks that she is dying. 3d) Jacky can't help swinging her hips. She likes to show off, dancing, etc. 3e) Boys can't control their urges, so Jacky has to be the one responsible to not let things go too far with her boyfriend. 4) An anti-Jesus undercurrent that I found disturbing. 5) Questionable nautical items: I am not a nautical expert by any means, but I raised my eyebrows at the author's repeated assertion that no one could see Jacky and her pals in the mizzen tops. I could believe \"few could see them\" or \"hard to see them from the deck except with a spyglass\", but the author talks as if they are in a enclosed room, even when they are standing up. I also found the \"Jacky flies hanging from a kite to another island\" a bit far-fetched. 6) Annoying cockney accent writing: I can handle accent writing in small doses, but it is all the way through this book. 7)Very little reflection or reasoning: the story is all told from Jacky's point of view in the form of \"I did this and then I did that and then I went to sleep and then I woke up and then I ate and then I said xxx to him and he said yyy to me and ...\". Look, one of the positives is that Jacky seems to have a strong sense of self-determination and a good moral compass. But the author provides very little justification or explanation of where she gets that from. It is just there by chance it seems. It is good to tell young people that it is possible to have their own good sense of purpose, but it would help to also give them some direction on how they can get that on their own. There are certainly no strong role models in this book and, too often, none in real life. 8) Poor characterization: The main characters, even Jacky, are very flat without much depth. Many minor characters are introduced, named, and then never mentioned again. 9) What's up with the title? Jacky gets the nickname \"Bloody Jack\" after killing a pirate (and then goes on to kill several others), but repeatedly states that she doesn't like being called that. So why would the author name the book that? Another poorly mixed message from this book. Apparently there are a couple of follow-on books to this one. I have no intention of going anywhere near them. Boys might like this book in the same way that they seem to like crude humor, but that is hardly something that I think should be encouraged. Certainly the picture this book gives them of young girls I would hardly call accurate. Even putting aside the problems I have with some of the messages of this book, I would avoid it for the poor writing. Like I said, very disappointing all around. But being a Hornblower fan, maybe my expectations were too high. ...more An extraordinary tale about a young girl who has everything and everyone taken from her and still unbelievably rises out of the ashes like a Phoenix to survive in a time of death and hopelessness. A great, captivating story with a completely original cast of characters that show great bravery and wildly cunning wit throughout. Mary/Jack/Jackie is a wonderfully imaginative and resourceful individual who I found to be extremely entertaining and couldn't wait to see what crazy thing she would do ne An extraordinary tale about a young girl who has everything and everyone taken from her and still unbelievably rises out of the ashes like a Phoenix to survive in a time of death and hopelessness. A great, captivating story with a completely original cast of characters that show great bravery and wildly cunning wit throughout. Mary/Jack/Jackie is a wonderfully imaginative and resourceful individual who I found to be extremely entertaining and couldn't wait to see what crazy thing she would do next. It is a coming of age book with a twist that is listed as a YA, but for me it was just an exciting adventure that I did not want to end. Katherine Kellgren has outstanding timing and is a perfect fit for Jackie's personality. Her distinct character voices and consistent pace always bring a little something extra to the listen. I highly recommend this to everyone who would like to take an exhilarating ride on the high seas. ...more This book is about as much fun as Harry Potter...a coming of age story for a child with the odds stacked against her. And yes, BONUS, the heroine is a girl. I found it to be an engaging read with a novel setting and story line (for me). I'm so happy I picked up on the series! I love, love, LOVE all of the Bloody Jack books. She does edge a little into Mary Sue territory at times, but not in typical ways for a female character. She's kind of like an adolescent female version of Jack Ryan (Patriot Games, etc). Excellent story! I love the style of writing...I feel like I'm right with them on the ship. Can't wait to read the others! Excellent story! I tend to like those gender-bending characters in general, but Jacky was especially well done. So many female action heroes tend to be modeled as boys in skirts - ass-kicking, bloodthirsty heroines out to prove they're not just some weakling girl. Jacky is a girl. She proves herself worthy in combat, but doesn't relish it. She plays a boy because it will secure her food and freedom. She challenges gender assumptions when her boyfriend wants to mold her into something she isn't. Excellent story! I tend to like those gender-bending characters in general, but Jacky was especially well done. So many female action heroes tend to be modeled as boys in skirts - ass-kicking, bloodthirsty heroines out to prove they're not just some weakling girl. Jacky is a girl. She proves herself worthy in combat, but doesn't relish it. She plays a boy because it will secure her food and freedom. She challenges gender assumptions when her boyfriend wants to mold her into something she isn't. Her little commentary on the lack of protection a dress affords is pretty cool. She is bold and smart and thoughtful and resourceful. She gets a bit weepy, but it seems justified and in-character for the hardships she's suffered. Furthermore, I believe that women do outwardly express their emotions more, so this was kind of a reaffirmation of her femaleness. (It's not the only way of being female and thus did still bug me a bit.) The criticism I thought I would have - how can a girl escape notice as a girl? - was adequately addressed. She's pre-pubescent when she joins up - and there really isn't much difference except in that one spot then - and as she matures she does have to take extra precautions in how and where she dresses. It required only a mild suspension of disbelief. And the action was fun. It's a quick read, no lulls but with breathing room. (view spoiler) [So, in many books and films and comics, a woman is raped or killed solely to further the main player's character development. It is a fast solution to set up a hero's revenging rampage. And it is a despicable, dehumanizing plot device that renders the (always) female victim into a prop. In contrast, when Jacky is near-raped it was not because she was a woman, she defended herself appropriately, and the men in the book recognized her/his right to defend her/himself. Furthermore, in her trial, when the Captain asks her if she's done anything to lead Sloat on, she says no, she'd sought to avoid him (page 176 in my copy). This is reminiscent of a lot of rape-trial victim-blaming (\"c'mon, that short skirt, saucy walk, existence of breasts, you were asking for it!\"), but she didn't blame herself and told it to them straight. Brava! Obviously, the author wasn't going to kill off the main character, but it seemed to me - and maybe I'm reading into it - that this could have been handled a lot worse. Instead of feeling like some cheap trick, the scene and the whole trial, imprisonment episode was about Jacky's own character development and it sent a strong, positive anti-rape message. (hide spoiler) ] On another note, I'm really glad that the author abandoned most of the dialect once she got on the ship. If you build the character well, the reader will hear the words right without all the apostrophes. Several other reviewers applauded the audio book; I think that would help. (Actually, the orphan Charlie's accent made the character for me. He was given some really funny lines. He was also touching, explaining how rich folk don't really care about your life story, they only want to feel good and charitable and go on with their lives. I was sad to see him go.) Also, I was glad that the author addressed how to identify bullying behavior and recognize your own power and dignity. Addressing bullying with hit-him-back is maybe not the advice I'd give, but it does seem historically appropriate in an honor-bound society. It was nice to see Jacky teach an elder how to defend himself. I'm neither a child nor a parent, so I can't really assess the age-appropriateness of the book, but it did seem to contain some themes worth conveying to a child of some age or other. Plus this book reminded me of The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle , which I loved as a child, without all the... frumpery in the beginning. And with that, my ramble is done. Do read. ...more Fun book about a girl from the London slums who boards a British Navy boat as a boy. In my library it's a Young Adult book, but it's a good quick read, plenty of happenings and adventure. It's told first person, so it takes a little bit to get used to the grammar. A kid from the gutter's not going to speak the Queen's English, after all. After surviving on the streets of London, Mary's friend and protector is killed. She takes his clothes and his shiv and heads off to find something more for hers Fun book about a girl from the London slums who boards a British Navy boat as a boy. In my library it's a Young Adult book, but it's a good quick read, plenty of happenings and adventure. It's told first person, so it takes a little bit to get used to the grammar. A kid from the gutter's not going to speak the Queen's English, after all. After surviving on the streets of London, Mary's friend and protector is killed. She takes his clothes and his shiv and heads off to find something more for herself. She can read and write (her parents had some means, before the rest of her family died from some illness) and is pretty scrappy. She's always dreamed of going to sea, so she boards a ship, no long Little Mary, but Jacky. She thrives on steady meals and hard work. She faces battles, both with pirates and her shipmates, during which she earns her nickname \"Bloody Jack.\" After a heated battle with a dreaded pirate in the Caribbean, the ship has to run itself ashore on an island or sink. Jacky is sent aloft on a kite to search for land and hardwood to repair the ship. She's swept off on the winds, finds woods, signals her ship and waits. Her rescue's imperiled when the pirates attack her shipmates. Her attempts to save them end her in a noose, with everyone knowing she's a girl. They take the day, but she's put off the ship in Boston to attend a school for young ladies. This is the first in a series. Maybe not great for younger kids. ...more If you've ever wanted girl adventure stories, Jacky is your girl. What's more, Meyer manages to handle the tired old saw of girl dressed as boy and make it believable, describing her adventures with clarity, vividness, humor, and sympathy. Even the subjects one would consider somewhat dicey are well-handled, probably because Jacky's voice is so very assured, we always believe in her, don't see the author wincing or smirking or pushing the puppets about. Jacky is born to a nice family but they di If you've ever wanted girl adventure stories, Jacky is your girl. What's more, Meyer manages to handle the tired old saw of girl dressed as boy and make it believable, describing her adventures with clarity, vividness, humor, and sympathy. Even the subjects one would consider somewhat dicey are well-handled, probably because Jacky's voice is so very assured, we always believe in her, don't see the author wincing or smirking or pushing the puppets about. Jacky is born to a nice family but they die and she sees them taken away by a corpse-seller, whereupon she joins an orphan gang under Blackfriars Bridge. When things get worse, she disguises herself as a boy, noticing how much freedom they have. She manages to get hired onto a ship because she can read, though once there, she has plenty of problems to solve. But she's on her way to adventure\u2014sometimes finding it almost too much to bear. ...more I love this book and just can't get enough of it. jacky's fabulous and absolutely crazy. Its just what I need, a good does of adventure following a streetsmart heroine who doesn't have a chip on her shoulder or an abusive family. I think that the best part is that Jacky adapts to every situations and learns like a sponge. She's bloody talented and completely wild. There is a smidgit of romance or love interest, which also manages to keep me hooked for the next book (and the book after that and so I love this book and just can't get enough of it. jacky's fabulous and absolutely crazy. Its just what I need, a good does of adventure following a streetsmart heroine who doesn't have a chip on her shoulder or an abusive family. I think that the best part is that Jacky adapts to every situations and learns like a sponge. She's bloody talented and completely wild. There is a smidgit of romance or love interest, which also manages to keep me hooked for the next book (and the book after that and so on). Definitely worth a read or two, I promise ...more Sangat mudah menemukan anak-anak jalanan di hampir setiap sudut jalan-jalan di Jakarta, sepertinya di banyak kota di Indonesia. Ada yang jadi pengemis, pengamen, pedagang asongan, dan pedagang koran. Kebanyakan, dipaksa untuk melakukan pekerjaan itu, baik oleh orang tuanya ataupun oleh orang lain yang \u201cmenyewa\u201d mereka. Tapi, tidak sedikit juga yang memang melakukan pekerjaan itu karena ingin membantu orang tau dalam memenuhi kebutuhan hidup keluarga, atau bisa juga karena mereka memang sudah tid Sangat mudah menemukan anak-anak jalanan di hampir setiap sudut jalan-jalan di Jakarta, sepertinya di banyak kota di Indonesia. Ada yang jadi pengemis, pengamen, pedagang asongan, dan pedagang koran. Kebanyakan, dipaksa untuk melakukan pekerjaan itu, baik oleh orang tuanya ataupun oleh orang lain yang \u201cmenyewa\u201d mereka. Tapi, tidak sedikit juga yang memang melakukan pekerjaan itu karena ingin membantu orang tau dalam memenuhi kebutuhan hidup keluarga, atau bisa juga karena mereka memang sudah tidak punya siapa-siapa lagi. Tidak hanya bekerja di jalanan, banyak juga anak-anak yang bekerja di pabrik sebagai buruh, anak-anak yang terpaksa kehilangan masa anak-anak. Pernah mendengar kata jermal? Dalam KBBI, jermal berarti alat penangkap ikan berupa pagar dari pancang yang dipasang di tepi laut, berpintu seperti bubu dan dibelakangnya dipasang jaring besar yang dapat diangkat-angkat. Sebuah jermal lepas pantai Cermin, Sumatera Utara (bukan di tepi laut lagi) pun pernah (atau mungkin masih sampai sekarang, karena pada September 2008, masih ditemukan 3 orang pekerja jermal dibawah 18 tahun) menjadi tempat mempekerjakan anak-anak. Bisa dibayangkan, jika para pekerja minyak lepas pantai punya jadwal tiga minggu kerja dan seminggu istirahat di darat, maka para anak-anak ini harus tinggal berbulan-bulan di atas jermal untuk bekerja menangkap ikan. Bukan cuma kelelahan fisik yang akan mereka alami saat bekerja, tapi juga tekanan emosi ataupun mental dari pada \u201csenior\u201d. Sekedar informasi, sejumlah jermal di lepas pantai Sumatera Utara, ditengarai masih mempekerjakan anak. Menurut hasil pengawasan pada September 2008 di beberapa jermal yang dilakukan oleh Pusat Pendidikan dan Informasi Hak Anak bersama Komite Aksi Propinsi Penanggulangan Bentuk-bentuk Pekerjaan Terburuk untuk Anak, ditemukan setidaknya tiga anak yang berusia masih dibawah 18 tahun, bekerja sebagai buruh jermal di perairan Kabupaten Asahan. Fakta ini jelas melanggar Peraturan Daerah Pemerintah Propinsi Sumatera Utara No 5 Tahun 2004 tentang Penghapusan Bentuk-Bentuk Pekerjaan Terburuk untuk Anak, serta melanggar juga Konvensi ILO Nomor 182 tentang Pelarangan Bentuk-bentuk Pekerjaan Terburuk Bagi Anak melalui UU Nomor 1 Tahun 2000. Jumlah itu memang sudah jauh berkurang dari sekitar 400 buruh anak pada tahun 1998, turun menjadi 30-an pada akhir Maret 2003. Baiklah, mari kembali ke buku\u2026. Mary Faber sudah menjadi anak yatim piatu sejak kecil. Dia harus menyaksikan ayah, ibu, dan adiknya meninggal karena terserang wabah penyakit. Lebih parahnya lagi, jasad adiknya dibawa oleh Muck, seorang pengumpul mayat, untuk kemudian di jual kepada dokter yang sedang belajar anatomi. Sejak saat itu, dia menganggap hari itu sebagai yang yang mengerikan dalam hidupnya. Dan hari itu juga, dia pun keluar dari rumahnya, dan menjadi anak jalanan. Hari pertama jadi anak jalanan, baju yang dia pakai sudah langsung dipalak oleh anak jalanan lainnya. Dia terpaksa memakai sebuah daster kotor dan bau, milik anak perempuan yang memalaknya. Sebagai anak jalanan (di wilayah manapun), tidak baik berdiri sendiri, dia pun bergabung dengan geng anak jalanan yang dipimpin oleh Charlie. Bersama dengan anggota geng lainnya, mereka bekerja sama mencari uang dan makanan untuk kebutuhan sehari-hari. Mengemis dan mencuri adalah hal yang biasa mereka lakukan setiap hari. Bahkan, mereka pun harus siap sedia bertarung dengan geng anak jalanan lainnya demi mempertahankan \u201crumah\u201d dan harga diri gengnya. Diam-diam, Mary menyukai Charlie. Sebagai pemimpin, Charlie selalu melindungi anggota gengnya. Terutama Mary, dia takut geng yang lain akan merebut Mary karena Mary bisa menulis dan membaca, sesuatu yang sangat jarang dimiliki oleh anak-anak jalanan pada masa itu. Hingga suatu waktu, Charlie mati terbunuh. Dan ini yang membuat Mary memutuskan untuk keluar dari geng dan menjadi pelaut, untuk meraih impiannya. Sejak kecil, dia ingin berlayar mengeliling dunia agar bisa melihat kucing Cathay, tikus Bengali, dan kangguru. Mary mengambil baju Charlie dan menggunakannya, serta tidak lupa menyelipkan sebuah belati Charlie di balik rompinya. Dia memotong rambutnya menjadi sangat pendek dan dia menyamar jadi seorang anak laki-laki. Dia sadar, sangat tidak menguntungkan bagi seorang anak perempuan hidup dijalanan seorang diri. Dengan menjadi anak laki-laki, akan mempermudah Mary untuk mendapatkan uang dengan bekerja sebagai penjaga kuda. Singkat kata, , Mary bergabung dengan Kapal Kerajaan Inggris yang sedang membutuhkan 6 anak laki-laki untuk dijadikan menjadi pesuruh kapal. Dia bersaing dengan anak-anak laki-laki yang lain untuk mendapatkan pekerjaan itu. Ketika anak-anak lainnya mengandalkan kemampuan ototnya, dia hanya berteriak kalau dia bisa membaca dan menulis. Sebagai pesuruh kapal, dia mengaku bernama Jack. Orang-orang di kapal memanggilnya dengan nama Jacky. Jacky tumbuh sebagai seorang anak yang tidak mau ditindas. Dalam penyamarannya, Jacky bersiasat membuat gulungan kain berbentuk silinder, dan menjahitkannya kebagian depan celana dalamnya, agar terlihat memiliki \u201csesuatu\u201d yang seharusnya dimiliki oleh seorang lelaki. Dia juga harus bersiasat ketika harus mandi dan pipis bersama pesuruh kapal lainnya. Tapi satu hal yang sempat dia tidak mengerti adalah ketika dia mulai mengalami menstruasi. Mengetahui tubuhnya mengeluarkan darah, dia merasa telah terkena wabah penyakit mematikan dan akan segera meninggal. Sampai dia menuliskan sebuah surat wasiat untuk membagikan \u201cwarisan\u201d buat teman-temannya. Banyak hal yang dialami oleh Jacky di atas kapal itu, mulai dari penindasan seorang taruna, tidur bersama anak-anak laki-laki, pelecehan seksual dari seorang kelasi, dan berperang dengan bajak laut, yang menjadikan dia diberi gelar Jack Si Pemberani. Jacky dua kali membunuh manusia, pertama dengan menembak bajak laut yang hendak menusuk Jaimy, pesuruh kapal yang dia cintai, dan yang kedua adalah kelasi yang hendak melecehkannya secara seksual. Sebagai pekerja anak, Mary \u201cJack\u201d Faber pun mengalami hal-hal yang umumnya dialami pekerja anak lainnya. Ada orang-orang yang menjadi \u201cmusuh\u201d, dan ada juga yang menjadi teman yang melindungi. Tapi, apakah penyamaran Jack akan terbongkar? Dan bagaimana kisah cintanya dengan Jaimy? Buku ini sangat menghibur, terjemahannya benar-benar dikerjakan secara serius (tidak asal-asalan seperti beberapa buku terjemahan yang sebelumnya saya baca) walaupun ada sedikit salah-salah ketik, tapi tidak mengurangi kenikmatan membaca buku ini. Katanya sih ada buku lanjutannya, berburu dimulai. And, this book is recommended for everyone!!! ...more I don't normally read YA books because I'm an A and not very Y, but this was a book club pick, so what are you going to do? Well, it was because I would have never found this book on my own. In fact, while reading it, I wished that this series had been around when I was younger. The story couldn't be simpler: A young girl, Mary Faber, pretends to be a boy in order to become a ships boy. She's an orphan whose only friend in the world was just killed so she takes off to the high seas and high adven I don't normally read YA books because I'm an A and not very Y, but this was a book club pick, so what are you going to do? Well, it was because I would have never found this book on my own. In fact, while reading it, I wished that this series had been around when I was younger. The story couldn't be simpler: A young girl, Mary Faber, pretends to be a boy in order to become a ships boy. She's an orphan whose only friend in the world was just killed so she takes off to the high seas and high adventure. The story lends itself to the episodic nature of a lot of YA (the ship sails to new locations and at each new location there's a new adventure). I appreciated that nothing about the time or place was romanticized. The 1790's was a very dangerous time to be alive if you were rich, let alone a poor orphan. For the adult reader, there aren't too many twists and turns you won't see coming but that takes nothing away from the experience. Will she fall in love with one of the boys? Yep. Will on of the purvy old sailors try to rape her? Sure. Will she find her inner courage? I'll let you guess. I doubt I'll end up reading the rest of the series (12 book in total) but that's due to lack of time, not lack of quality. A high recommend for the young adventurer in all of us. ...more After reading Daughter of the Pirate King , I was in the mood for more high seas adventure. Featuring a cross-dressing girl trying to escape a life on the streets by getting hired on as a ship boy on a royal vessel, Bloody Jack definitely fit the bill.\u00a0But it was funny, too. I about died when Jacky thought she had contracted some plague and was going to die a horrible death because she didn't know what her monthlies were. Bahaha. Yeah, it starts out young, but by the end of the book she's about 1 After reading Daughter of the Pirate King , I was in the mood for more high seas adventure. Featuring a cross-dressing girl trying to escape a life on the streets by getting hired on as a ship boy on a royal vessel, Bloody Jack definitely fit the bill.\u00a0But it was funny, too. I about died when Jacky thought she had contracted some plague and was going to die a horrible death because she didn't know what her monthlies were. Bahaha. Yeah, it starts out young, but by the end of the book she's about 15, so I know future books in the series will likely be less on the middle-grade side. Though, I did enjoy her child-like demeanor and the levity it brought. Oh, and Katherine Kellgren as narrator was perfection . ...more Katherine Kellgren absolutely made this book for me. \"Bloody Jack\" is a well-written, well-plotted historical adventure, but Kellgren's performance transformed it into something truly special. She brought color and nuance to Jacky\u2019s world, pulling me right onto the deck of the HMS Dolphin. I could hear the roar of cannons, the swell of the sea and the music played by the sailors in her voice. I can\u2019t imagine experiencing this book in any other way. Set at the turn of the 19th Century, \u201cBloody Ja Katherine Kellgren absolutely made this book for me. \"Bloody Jack\" is a well-written, well-plotted historical adventure, but Kellgren's performance transformed it into something truly special. She brought color and nuance to Jacky\u2019s world, pulling me right onto the deck of the HMS Dolphin. I could hear the roar of cannons, the swell of the sea and the music played by the sailors in her voice. I can\u2019t imagine experiencing this book in any other way. Set at the turn of the 19th Century, \u201cBloody Jack\u201d uses the familiar trope of a girl dressed as a boy to experience a man\u2019s world, but the appealing heroine, diverse cast of characters and spot-on pacing made the story fresh and exciting. Mary \u201cJacky\u201d Faber escapes a dismal life as a London street urchin by fast-talking her way on board a British man-of-war headed out to sea in pursuit of pirates. Because she can read and write, she is assigned to help the tutor who instructs the young midshipmen and ship's boys. As performed by Kellgren, Jacky's voice conveys her wonder at the sights and workings of the ship, terror in battle, and later in the story, the overwhelming joy of young love. She comes fully alive in Kellgren's telling \u2013 smart, resourceful, self-deprecating, tender-hearted yet practical. Much of the humor and dramatic tension in the story comes from Jacky's efforts to maintain her disguise \u2013 first because she does not think through all the implications (\"What about the call of nature, you twit?\") and second because she begins to fall in love with another ship's boy, Jamie Fletcher, who comes from a respectable family fallen on hard times. Jacky struggles very believably to choose between the freedom of being a boy \u2013 able to climb rigging, visit taverns on shore leave and explore opportunities denied to women \u2013 and her desire to live as her true self. (She also discovers, later on, what is meant by the phrase \"feminine wiles\" and how to use hers to advantage.) Jacky also learns hard lessons about grown men who bully those they perceive as weaker, and about abusers who victimize children to satisfy their twisted desires. The HMS Dolphin is a microcosm of humanity itself, with all of the good and evil of men represented on its decks. Much of the story was quite dark and brutal, showing the hardships sailors endured and how cheaply life was sometimes held. I greatly appreciated how the characters behaved in ways both true to their times and to their own experiences. (For example, Jamie at first turns up his nose at the daily ration of horse meat, while the malnourished Jacky wolfs it down as if it\u2019s the best thing she\u2019s ever tasted.) By the story's end, many of the characters - from the unflappable Captain Locke to the passionate but prudish scholar Mr. Tilden to the kindly \"sea dad\" Liam Delaney - seemed like old friends. This book has it all: adventure, excitement, humor, pathos and tenderness \u2013 all vividly rendered by Kellgren. I am looking forward to joining Jacky on the rest of her adventures in this series. ...more \"Bloody Jack\" was an amazing story! I don't think I could've done half of what she did. Jacky lived ever since her parents had died of the plague on the streets of London but when an old man named Muck kills the leader of the gang, at least that is who they think did it, then she feels that she is forced to leave. Jacky takes his clothes, and his shiv, and comes aboard a royal navy ship as a ships boy. There she is the only girl aboard, and she has stay under the radar, but she seems to naturall \"Bloody Jack\" was an amazing story! I don't think I could've done half of what she did. Jacky lived ever since her parents had died of the plague on the streets of London but when an old man named Muck kills the leader of the gang, at least that is who they think did it, then she feels that she is forced to leave. Jacky takes his clothes, and his shiv, and comes aboard a royal navy ship as a ships boy. There she is the only girl aboard, and she has stay under the radar, but she seems to naturally draw attenetion, from almost getting raped by one of the senior members of the crew, to being the best flute player aboard,she gracefully hides her identity from everyone practically flawlessly. My favorite part was when Jaimy, who she had to share a hammock with, came into the sleeping quarters and caught her sewing a dress. He then proceeded to tell her that he liked her (not just as a friend) and that he would probably have to leave the ship because it meant that he was gay. Then Jacky got up, held out the dress, asked him to help her measure it, and then said \"What, ain't you ever seen a girl?\" I recomend this for anyone with a sense of adventure and a taste for the ocean, but mostly for teenage girls. You will never be dissapointed by the action, or the plot. This is an amazing book. Not to mention how fun it is to figure out all of the old-English slang that the characters use. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed at least the first half of this, and enjoyed many bits after, so I'd rather give three and a half stars if I could... Know all those great old ballads where the girl cuts off her hair, sometimes binds up her breasts and goes off to sea? With never a mention of how the hell she's going to continue to pass for a boy on a ship full of sailors - no private bedrooms or nice, locking toilets? Well, this book has the same plotline, except the heroine more sensibly gets taken on as a I thoroughly enjoyed at least the first half of this, and enjoyed many bits after, so I'd rather give three and a half stars if I could... Know all those great old ballads where the girl cuts off her hair, sometimes binds up her breasts and goes off to sea? With never a mention of how the hell she's going to continue to pass for a boy on a ship full of sailors - no private bedrooms or nice, locking toilets? Well, this book has the same plotline, except the heroine more sensibly gets taken on as a ship's boy when young and undernourished, and it actually deals with problems like going to the toilet, the very rare occasion on which she has to wash and later on, getting her period and not knowing that she isn't dying! When my enjoyment started dimming down was when the romance started up. Jacky remains the resourceful-but-no-braver-than-she-HAS-to-be character she was, but her love (*not* lover, thanks to a useful lesson from a prostitute she visits!) is pretty wet, and the incredulity at their managing to sneak all this time together unnoticed, just because they climb up to a cozy spot in the rigging is pretty high. ...more Would have given this more stars, because I (mostly) enjoyed the story and I like the main character, but. 1. James 'Jaimy' Emerson Fletcher. Holy fuck I wanna punch that boy in the face. I can't even put it into words, really, but he rubs me the wrong way something major. The fact that wants Jacky to be more \"lady-like\" doesn't help. 2. The fact that, when Jacky and Jaimy are fooling around, it is Jacky's job to make sure things don't go too far, because Jaimy can't think straight in these situa Would have given this more stars, because I (mostly) enjoyed the story and I like the main character, but. 1. James 'Jaimy' Emerson Fletcher. Holy fuck I wanna punch that boy in the face. I can't even put it into words, really, but he rubs me the wrong way something major. The fact that wants Jacky to be more \"lady-like\" doesn't help. 2. The fact that, when Jacky and Jaimy are fooling around, it is Jacky's job to make sure things don't go too far, because Jaimy can't think straight in these situations and can't help himself. Which, OK, Jacky doesn't want to get pregnant, so she doesn't want full out piv intercourse, so she makes sure it doesn't happen. Awesome. More power to her. But I could really, really do without another thing telling me that women have to be the responsible ones in stuff like this, because men are slaves to their needs and they can't help themselves the poor babies. Ugh. Also, the fact that Jacky broke down in tears when trying to convince Jaimy that they can't have sex doesn't really makes things any better. So, yeah. Fun little story but. Issues. I have them. ...more Great book! I was sucked in from the first page. An exciting story and a compelling main character. I love Jacky's voice; it's very strong. I finished it this morning and today I got the sequel out of the library! :D yaay Why did I wait so long to read/listen to this?? The audiobook RULED! Except that I had a cockney accent all night last night. is it me or does any story having to do with the high seas not including jack sparrow not seem complete. Summary: Life changes forever when Mary\u2019s family dies of Cold and hunger.... Mary finds herself in the streets of London with only the clothes on her back, which are soon stolen by a gang of urchins, who then adopt her into their group. Charlie, Polly, Judy, Nancy, and Hugh teach Mary how to survive on the streets. Begging, thieving, and running from the law become second nature to her. Then someone murders Charlie and Mary decides life is far too dangerous for a girl, so she disguises herself as Summary: Life changes forever when Mary\u2019s family dies of Cold and hunger.... Mary finds herself in the streets of London with only the clothes on her back, which are soon stolen by a gang of urchins, who then adopt her into their group. Charlie, Polly, Judy, Nancy, and Hugh teach Mary how to survive on the streets. Begging, thieving, and running from the law become second nature to her. Then someone murders Charlie and Mary decides life is far too dangerous for a girl, so she disguises herself as a boy and becomes Jack Faber. Jack signs aboard the Dolphin as a ship\u2019s boy, along with five others \u2013 Benjy, Tink, Willy, Davy, and Jaimy. At twelve, Jack is now in the Royal Navy bound for the Mediterranean and Caribbean to hunt pirates and learn the life of a mariner. The ship's boys form a secret club, which causes a few problems for Jack, but she learns to adapt while hiding her secret. What she doesn\u2019t count on are becoming a woman, falling in love, defending her life from an enemy within, fighting pirates, and participating in a frightening scientific experiment! The bad guys were other pirates and some people on the ship. The good guys are Jaimy, and her other ship mates, plus her \"Gang\" and some other people on the ship like the captain....and her (Mary) Of course! I loved Mary she is poor but SO brave to go on a pirate ship! And put up with all those yucky boys! The setting was in 1720 London. conflict, Mary was just trying to get enough money for her gang and help the poor, like her. Conclusion, The ending, is just....Wow! Whoa! I couldn't keep my nose out of it! it was i guess a okay ending and I can't wait to find out what she'll do next! I think any girl mite love it once they get into the middle of the book, and yes, I would think my friends would like it! ...more Bloody Jack was exactly what I needed, right when I needed it. Its timing could not have been better. I enjoyed every moment of it. 1. Was the story fun to read? YES! It's an adventure story in the truest sense of the word. It didn't ever slow down too much for me. Mary survived the harsh streets as a girl, tricked her way aboard a ship, fought off pirates (PIRATES, y'all!), and lived under the looming threat that some crazy guy wanted to strap her to a kite just to see whether it would still fly Bloody Jack was exactly what I needed, right when I needed it. Its timing could not have been better. I enjoyed every moment of it. 1. Was the story fun to read? YES! It's an adventure story in the truest sense of the word. It didn't ever slow down too much for me. Mary survived the harsh streets as a girl, tricked her way aboard a ship, fought off pirates (PIRATES, y'all!), and lived under the looming threat that some crazy guy wanted to strap her to a kite just to see whether it would still fly. Never. Bored. Ever. 2. Did the characters intrigue me? This was a rare case in which I didn't have an anchor character, but actually enjoyed all of them about equally. Mary was a great main character. I loved her and rooted for her the whole way through. It wasn't at all difficult to do. 3. Did the premise make me think? I remember Mary saying two things that got me thinking. The first was during her initial transition from living as a girl to living as a boy. She talked about how being a boy was easier, how she could get work so quickly, and how people treated her as though she could fend for herself. Second, she had a bit of a refrain: \"I never was really very brave.\" Not only did that echo in my head long after I'd closed the book, but it made me love her all the more. Because of course she was brave! She just couldn't see how awesome her journey was, and that made her seem vulnerable without being weak. I would describe Bloody Jack as Treasure Island meets Oliver Twist . It was great fun, a little bit touching, but mostly pure adventure. ...more I've always been fond of historical YA novels, though I'm not sure they were called that when I was reading Johnny Tremain . Come to think of it, I'm not sure what they call them now. I haven't picked up any in a while, though, so this one just sort of jumped out at me on the library shelf. It's a lot of fun. It hits the plot points you'd expect from the intersection of \"swashbuckling Navy adventure\" and \"cross-dressing hero,\" but it does so with style. It doesn't hurt that \"Jacky\" is a resourcefu I've always been fond of historical YA novels, though I'm not sure they were called that when I was reading Johnny Tremain . Come to think of it, I'm not sure what they call them now. I haven't picked up any in a while, though, so this one just sort of jumped out at me on the library shelf. It's a lot of fun. It hits the plot points you'd expect from the intersection of \"swashbuckling Navy adventure\" and \"cross-dressing hero,\" but it does so with style. It doesn't hurt that \"Jacky\" is a resourceful guttersnipe with enough smarts and charisma that you can actually believe in her ability to hide her identity for months on a crowded ship. (It doesn't hurt that her disguise isn't 100% perfect,, either. Mayer portrays several characters as being aware that something's a little strange, but they're completely unable to imagine the truth. That makes a lot of sense to me.) The story gets a little wild at the end, but at that point, who cares? I was invested in the characters and the ship and eager to see what would happen next. I'm also pleasantly surprised to see that there are sequels -- and I suppose I should have expected them, since C.S. Forester and Patrick O'Brian proved that you can't keep a great sailor hero on dry land for long... ...more (Review edited in 2015, read in 2013) I at first thought, several years ago when I saw this, that it was probably border-lining on being a children's book, or even a typical immature YA novel. But it was everything I wanted to read right now. This came out in 2002, a year before the first of the Pirates of the Caribbean films, so no, it is not some kind of rip off, even with the character's name. It is really good for anyone who loves those movies though. I was actually so entranced by the imagery (Review edited in 2015, read in 2013) I at first thought, several years ago when I saw this, that it was probably border-lining on being a children's book, or even a typical immature YA novel. But it was everything I wanted to read right now. This came out in 2002, a year before the first of the Pirates of the Caribbean films, so no, it is not some kind of rip off, even with the character's name. It is really good for anyone who loves those movies though. I was actually so entranced by the imagery while reading this that I wasn't sure I would be able to finish it in decent time. I kept wanting to go watch those movies. They really aren't similar, I'm just so in love with pirates. What I thought was handled quite well was that this book doesn't give you the entirely romanticized version of pirates or the Royal Navy. People are raped, people die. Also, Jacky was not the typical Mary-Sue that is often found in the pirate books and fan fiction, you know the one who runs off and WANTS to be a boy and completely dismisses women as pirates. She does want to grow up to be a lady and get married, which is kind of amusing, but she is also strong and decent at ship life. ...more It's a YA novel, but it's also great fun. It's one of those books where I'm like, \"There should be more of these.\" (And there are! It's a whole series!) None of the elements are terribly new or original (or realistic), but it's all put together well and has just what (well, I) like to read! A young girl, Mary Faber, is orphaned on the streets of 18th-century London. She joins a gang of kids and learns begging and even some thieving, but when a ghoulish thug who sells the bodies of dead street kid It's a YA novel, but it's also great fun. It's one of those books where I'm like, \"There should be more of these.\" (And there are! It's a whole series!) None of the elements are terribly new or original (or realistic), but it's all put together well and has just what (well, I) like to read! A young girl, Mary Faber, is orphaned on the streets of 18th-century London. She joins a gang of kids and learns begging and even some thieving, but when a ghoulish thug who sells the bodies of dead street kids to medical schools kills the leader of her gang, she realizes it's time to leave. Disguising herself as a boy and calling herself Jack, she gets taken on as a cabin boy on a ship bound to hunt down pirates. Much nautical adventure ensues... ...more I completely loved the first half of this book. I loved Mary, I was totally enthralled by her experience on the streets of London and then on the ship and the whole thing was written in such a compelling voice that I really did not want to put it down. But then came the romance, which made Mary quite silly, and the book kind of lost me. Don't get me wrong, I like romance, often even the dumb ones, but I felt like this particular romance really made Mary seem much less interesting (and much more w I completely loved the first half of this book. I loved Mary, I was totally enthralled by her experience on the streets of London and then on the ship and the whole thing was written in such a compelling voice that I really did not want to put it down. But then came the romance, which made Mary quite silly, and the book kind of lost me. Don't get me wrong, I like romance, often even the dumb ones, but I felt like this particular romance really made Mary seem much less interesting (and much more whiny and/or stereotypically female) and felt pretty awkward, especially in comparison to the quality of the rest of the story. I'll likely read the next book in the series, but I'm not nearly as excited about it as I was, and if it continues on this vein, it'll likely be the last one I read. ...more Honestly didn't think I would like this one--you know, cause I get seasick, and this being a story about sailors and ships. <---C>Jacky Faber</---C> has wonderful characteristics: strong female, too much pride for her own good, and clever. Her voice stays with you long after you close the book. The only thing that bothered me (and this is going to sound really stupid) are the run-on sentences. I hope I'll get used to it with the next installment. My favorite line: \"The Captain is so happy, he's forgivin' you fo Honestly didn't think I would like this one--you know, cause I get seasick, and this being a story about sailors and ships. Jacky Faber has wonderful characteristics: strong female, too much pride for her own good, and clever. Her voice stays with you long after you close the book. The only thing that bothered me (and this is going to sound really stupid) are the run-on sentences. I hope I'll get used to it with the next installment. My favorite line: \"The Captain is so happy, he's forgivin' you for bein' a girl...\" ...more Audio book Absolutely wonderful story of a young girl who disguises herself as a boy to become a ship's boy on HMS The Dolphin. Story is well narrated and the narrator captures the young girl's observations well. I found myself smiling and laughing at Jackie's many adventures. Well done. Recommended for middle grades and higher. What a romp! Great fun.<---A>L.A. Meyer</---A><+++>Bloody Jack: Being an Account of the Curious Adventures of Mary \"Jacky\" Faber, Ship's Boy</+++>", "Title": "Bloody Jack: Being an Account of the Curious Adventures of Mary \"Jacky\" Faber, Ship's Boy"},
