{"Comments": "You know you have a good book series going when hundreds of people add \"Untitled Book #3\" to their to-read lists... You know what freaks me out a bit? That I never finished this book.... I was reading it, and then I wasn't and it was two weeks later and I found it in the back of my closet.<---F> It was just</---F>...good. But I there were parts that were so boring I wanted to tear my eyes out. And I have to admit that after three books of action and drama of apocalyptic proportions, I think I was a little tired of it. I'll have to see what my cousin thinks. They were like her favorite books, and she hasn't read this yet. I am disappointed. I started reading <+++>Beautiful Chaos</+++> with a huge smile and ended up with a frown on my face. After the great adventure I experienced with Beautiful Darkness, I expected <+++>Beautiful Chaos</+++> to surpass the excitement and thrill of the 2nd book of the Caster Chronicles. Sadly, it just dragged on; and to think that I was really, really eager to see a lot of great things from this book. There were several elements that bothered me while reading Beautiful Chaos, and they are as follows: THE I am disappointed. I started reading Beautiful Chaos with a huge smile and ended up with a frown on my face. After the great adventure I experienced with Beautiful Darkness, I expected Beautiful Chaos to surpass the excitement and thrill of the 2nd book of the Caster Chronicles. Sadly, it just dragged on; and to think that I was really, really eager to see a lot of great things from this book. There were several elements that bothered me while reading Beautiful Chaos, and they are as follows: THE PACING. It didn\u2019t bother me that the first book,<---M> Beautiful Creatures</---M>, started out slow; I get it. There were a lot of things I needed to sink my brain into. Then came Beautiful Darkness that blew me away with such a thrilling adventure, which up until now, I could still not get over by the way. Unfortunately Beautiful Chaos came out slower than the first and just happened to be even less eventful too. CHARACTER INTERACTION. None of the characters wanted to tell anybody anything. They\u2019ve always been so secretive during the first and second book, and it\u2019s obvious that keeping secrets just gets them deeper into trouble and yet they keep doing so. I really wanted to jump inside the book and slap each character senseless. When will they ever learn??? PROBLEM SOLVING SKILLS. Another thing the characters don\u2019t seem to learn or improve at. The constant \u201cI don\u2019t know\u201d and \u201cWe need to figure out soon\u201d is really getting old. They keep saying they\u2019ll figure it out and yet \u2018till the end, they still haven\u2019t. They keep trying to find a way to solve it fast but then end up with something else to worry about. It\u2019s an endless cycle. THE NUMBER OF PAGES. 500+ pages of all of talk and worry and not much going on is a pain. There are some chapters that I felt asking myself if they were really necessary to the story or not. CLIFFHANGERS. Another endless matter. How many moons will it take for anything to actually happen that\u2019ll push me off my seat? NOT ENOUGH LINK. Seriously?! He turns into a quarter-incubus and that\u2019s when he gets pushed aside? I had seen him in a more significant role as a mere mortal than now when he\u2019s got more power in him. Not cool. So there. I feel so bad for ranting out but I really had such high hopes for this book. I\u2019m a little skeptical about reading the next after this. I don\u2019t know if it would get anywhere at all. For more of my reviews, please visit my blog: The Blair Book Project @ www.theblairbookproject.blogspot.com ...more Five stars: This series continues to excel. Things are not quite right in Gatlin, nor are they right in the Mortal and Caster Worlds. The events that transpired at Lena's forced Seventeenth Moon Claiming created far reaching consequences. A crack splintered through the Order of Things; a slit formed in our world that is slowly spreading, sprawling and decimating life as we know it. Gatlin is plagued by relentless, scorching heat, grasshoppers, a dried up lake and the Baptists led by the intimidat Five stars: This series continues to excel. Things are not quite right in Gatlin, nor are they right in the Mortal and Caster Worlds. The events that transpired at Lena's forced Seventeenth Moon Claiming created far reaching consequences. A crack splintered through the Order of Things; a slit formed in our world that is slowly spreading, sprawling and decimating life as we know it. Gatlin is plagued by relentless, scorching heat, grasshoppers, a dried up lake and the Baptists led by the intimidating Mrs. Link, waving their signs proclaiming the end of world and reminding all of us sinners to repent. Our friends are haunted by their own torments. For Ethan, it seems that the debt from Lena's Sixteenth Moon Claiming is due. Every night he is trapped in sweaty, terrible, haunting nightmares, filled with visions of falling and death. He feels blurry, out of focus and he is catching glimpses out of the corner of his eye; is something shadowing him? The worst part is that he is forgetting things, losing more of himself each day, it is as if something is gnawing at his mind. Amma knows that Fate is expecting payment and she is tortured by the steep price. She is distracted and frazzled. Her crosswords set aside, pie making abandoned and The Greats aren't answering. Lena, has claimed herself, she is sharp, bright and ready to fight but her Caster powers are misfiring as are all the Caster's powers. Link is dealing with his transformation into Linkubus and moaning over the unattainable Ridley. As each day passes and the apocalypse nears, Ethan once again finds himself in a battle. This time it is different, he is struggling against the Wheel of Fate. The march of the present to the future and into destiny. The Wheel is grinding, chewing through time and pulverizing everyone in her path. No one can escape, she crushes all. Can Ethan avoid the Wheel's path? What I Liked: *I am a big fan of this series and book three did not disappoint. In fact this is the best book yet. I \"ripped\" into the pages and scarfed them down, it was so good. The plot of this book moves away from Lena and onto Ethan. The big boot has fallen and our characters are trapped under the stomp. Chaos and destruction reign. This story is thick. There are so many sub plots trailing the main story of Ethan trying to restore The Order and himself. This book will have your mind whirling, it is deep! Be prepared for anything. It builds and builds to a heart wrenching ending that will have you running to check when the next book is available. You NEED to meet my friends in Gatlin but please start with book one, Beautiful Creatures. *The characters this time around have grown and matured, Lena especially. At last she has ascended beyond the emotive, brooding, dramatic girl to staunch and determined. I really enjoyed her transformation. Ethan is amazing, for all you Ethan lovers out there, your boy is as always, courageous and endearing. His willingness to sacrifice will shred your heart. Linkubus, provides the laughs and he excels in his new super hero role, he so isn't \"lame like Aquaman.\" Everyone has returned more developed and better. There is one heart breaking loss along the way. Be prepared to shed some tears. I wonder where my friends will go from here? *This entire series is peppered with many memorable quotes from so many famous people from Dickinson, Poe, Plato, Da Vinci and even Winston Churchill. Any literary connoisseur will love not only the quotes but the references to some great literature. I have decided that Ms. Stohl and Ms. Garcia need to (only after the finale of the Caster's Chronicles as I do not want my wait time extended) publish a Gatlin cookbook and lace it with famous quotable lines. And The Not So Much: *I am still conflicted over the John Breed character. As I suspected in Beautiful Darkness, he is an important character. This time some light was shed on why he seemed so flat and \"puppet like\" in the last book. His character fills out in this installment and I even grew to like him, as does Ethan after he gets over wanting to punch him in the face but I feel that I am still missing something. Hopefully, it will all become clear in book four. *This is a personal preference but I wanted more Linkubus. I was hoping that with the transformation that Link would be even more prominent than he was in the last book. It starts out with a strong dose of Linkubus but toward the end his presence fades. He does remain a solid, steadfast friend and he rips in at timely moments to save the day. I think to satiate the Linkubus hunger there must be a spinoff series featuring the lovable Link. Plus, I still don't know what he was doing in Amma's basement when he was nine. A burning question that needs an answer. *As I mentioned previously, this is a complicated story line with many threads that all intertwine. However, I was disappointed that there were so many lines and none of them draw to resolution. Especially with the climatic, tear jerking, and tender buildup ( I am not even kidding about this) and then the heart splitting, jaw dropping ending that will have you screaming....\"NOoooo....\" Ladies, how can you be so cruel to slap us in the face with that finale and leave us suffering with a painfully, long, length of time to wait! Book three in The Caster's Chronicles is bigger and better than the first two. In Gatlin, where things never change, it has changed and mostly not for the better. Our friends in Gatlin, transformed from their previous traumatic adventures are trying to evade the deadly, revolving Wheel of Fate, as she crunches through time and devours all. Can our heroes somehow defy her trampling spokes and change the future? Can they bring about a New Order and stop the Chaos? I expect book four to be an epic finale. Final Quotations: \"That when she looked at me, it was like there was no one else in the world. That when I looked at her, I noticed every detail about her while everything else faded away. That I was only myself when we were together.\" \"\u201cBooks?\u201d Ridley looked disgusted. \u201cCarry?\u201d \"We sat in silence, holding hands until it hurt, until the sun fell away\u2014behind the words, behind the glass and the trees and the river. The night slid across her bed, and I waited for the darkness to erase everything.\" \"Everyone\u2019s crazier than usual. My mom started talkin\u2019 about buildin\u2019 a bunker again. She\u2019s buyin\u2019 up every can at the Stop & Steal, like we\u2019re gonna hole up in the basement until the Devil gives up or somethin\u2019.\u201d \u201cBook banners are no better than book burners.\u201d \u201cMaybe it needed to be broken. Sometimes things have to break before you can fix them.\u201d \" You know vegetablism is one step closer ta a world without panties an\u2019 preachers. That there is a documentated fact.\u201d \"We change whether we want to or not.\u201d \"Same goes for the people you love and the people you don\u2019t\u2014and the people who love you and the people who don\u2019t. The only thing that mattered was that you cared about a few people. Life is really, really short.\" \u201cMaybe my mom\u2019s right and this is the End a Days. Maybe she\u2019s gonna get a chance to use her wheat grinder and her gas masks and that inflatable raft after all.\u201d \u201cI\u2019ll love you until the day after forever.\" ...more I have not finished this book. And I need to state that I get quite irritated when I read reviews and the reviewer says they haven't finished the book yet. But, I don't think I can get through the book and I wanted to write about it. Maybe I will skim it just to see how it ends. When I started this series I was pleasantly surprised and thought it was a fresh approach to the teen supernatural genre, especially since the overly beautiful mysteriously powerful love interest was female for a change I have not finished this book. And I need to state that I get quite irritated when I read reviews and the reviewer says they haven't finished the book yet. But, I don't think I can get through the book and I wanted to write about it. Maybe I will skim it just to see how it ends. When I started this series I was pleasantly surprised and thought it was a fresh approach to the teen supernatural genre, especially since the overly beautiful mysteriously powerful love interest was female for a change and the boy in love with her was kind of awkward. It didn't take long for me to get bored with the whole Lena Ethan thing just like the Edward Bella thing. And, I am tired of being told how beautiful Lena is and how deeply in love and connected they are. I don't buy it. I do still like the character of Ethan. At least I did until this third book. Now he has no character. Also, I believe more that he is in love with Liv than with Lena. I know the story tells us he loves Lena and can't live without her but the descriptive details of how he feels about Liv read more like real teen love to me than the hyped up melodramatic feelings he has for Lena. And speaking of melodrama. Every other paragraph in this story is some cryptic melodramatic statement that goes nowhere. They follow Amma around listening to her say cryptic things and go to cryptic places and they find out nothing. Just as in the previous books. The plot reminds me of a convoluted, nearly comical, storyline I might see in a Scooby Doo Cartoon. I am just plain disappointed in this series because many of the characters are great-Ethan, Ridley, and Link specifically. But, as I said too much melodrama and unresolved circular repetitive overblown plot lines. ...more 2011 Aaaaaaaaaaaawwww the cover's out! And it was black and what yellloooorrrrwwww????!!!!!!! Why? OMG the title's out, Beautfiul Chaos, I lab it ^^ ________________________________________________ Can't wait for this one, Beautiful Darkness pawns... If Link is going to be an Incubus I wanna marry him ^^ I've long felt (particularly with the previous book Beautiful Darkness ) that the Caster Chronicles (1) don't need to each be 500 pages long and (2) don't even need to be a series. A book or two could have probably done the job. But here we are at massive book #3. I do still very much like the series and considering the cliffhanger, am patiently waiting for book #4. Beautiful Chaos has many of the strengths of its predecessors: the rich Southern atmosphere (I practically read this series just for I've long felt (particularly with the previous book Beautiful Darkness ) that the Caster Chronicles (1) don't need to each be 500 pages long and (2) don't even need to be a series. A book or two could have probably done the job. But here we are at massive book #3. I do still very much like the series and considering the cliffhanger, am patiently waiting for book #4. Beautiful Chaos has many of the strengths of its predecessors: the rich Southern atmosphere (I practically read this series just for that), the poetic writing and a cast of characters I care about who are both quirky and human. That probably goes a long way to explaining the book's length: the authors just want to watch these characters go about their not-so-normal everyday lives. I really like those segments. If only they weren't mixed in with the \"something terrible is going to happen\" trick the authors have pulled on their readers twice already. The \"plot\" sits in \"something terrible is going to happen\" mode for about 400 hundred pages. Call it 'the question stage.' Then the reader gets about 100 pages to actually clear up the mysteries ('the answer stage') and then the last 30 or so for the thing you were waiting for to really start ('the consequence stage'). And then the authors cut it short: they end on a cliffhanger. So I can only imagine that book #3 has really just been prologue to book #4. I spent too much time yelling at the characters, \"It's ----!\" but didn't get sated until it was too late and the authors wouldn't even let me enjoy the payoff. I was practically cheering the character to his/her death just for the pure pleasure of \"something is actually happening!\" The main push, of course, is for me to buy book #4 and I suppose it has worked in so far as I might be annoyed but invested enough in these characters to see them through. I don't know how to solve this \"imbalance\": between the slice-of-life stuff and the high stakes \"our love is destroying the world\" stuff. At least, Beautiful Chaos handled it better than Beautiful Darkness . ...more **Since I'm not going to post on our blog anymore, I have decided to put and write all of my reviews here on Goodreads, starting with this book. Review It's been a month since I finished reading this book. Beautiful Chaos continues the story of the Mortal <---C>Ethan Wate</---C> and his love, the Caster Lena Duchannes. After surviving the happenings in the tunnels and claiming herself as both Light and Dark, Lena and the rest of Gatlin experiences near-apocalyptic events and must find a way to stop this while **Since I'm not going to post on our blog anymore, I have decided to put and write all of my reviews here on Goodreads, starting with this book. Review It's been a month since I finished reading this book. Beautiful Chaos continues the story of the Mortal Ethan Wate and his love, the Caster Lena Duchannes. After surviving the happenings in the tunnels and claiming herself as both Light and Dark, Lena and the rest of Gatlin experiences near-apocalyptic events and must find a way to stop this while figuring out the Eighteenth Moon. The series at its finest! As of now, this is my favorite one in the series. The book isn't that slow anymore, and the story line's just keep getting better and better. The authors did an amazing job on giving more background on supporting characters like Liv and John Breed. There's heartbreaking moments and more action within the book. The cliffhanger was a real shocker for me. It left me wanting, desiring, mad, crazy, insane for more! I couldn't get over with the end. I really hope that the fourth and last book would be more amazing and better than this one. The characters seemed more attached to me than it ever were. Link's even more cooler with his new Incubus powers. Ridley more evil and seductive in this book. All the Casters have their powers dangerously uncontrolled. The characters bump into a lot more mishap and a lot more chaos . The book also gets an in-depth story on the background of the Caster world, and of course, Lena's history. It's just so wonderful to be back on Gatlin, and feel so much magical? I thought so too. It seems to me that the readers of this book will crave for the fourth one, now that they've read the ending. For me, it just punched a hole into my stomach, leaving me crying and mad. I couldn't wait for the last book. The authors did an excellent, or may I say, perfect job on creating such a turn of events. I would really recommend this series, not just this book, to all YA fans. ...more I doubt this review has that many spoilers, if any, so I didn't put the block on. But if you consider the use of examples to explain why I have my opinions, then yes, there are spoilers. Oh dear God. What happened, Kami? You were doing so well. And then BAM. We get this piece of shit. Crash and burn, Garcia. Crash. and. BURN. I was expecting some kick-ass epicness that swallows me whole and makes me want to build a shrine to the author. I was expecting a character-based fantasy in which all the peo I doubt this review has that many spoilers, if any, so I didn't put the block on. But if you consider the use of examples to explain why I have my opinions, then yes, there are spoilers. Oh dear God. What happened, Kami? You were doing so well. And then BAM. We get this piece of shit. Crash and burn, Garcia. Crash. and. BURN. I was expecting some kick-ass epicness that swallows me whole and makes me want to build a shrine to the author. I was expecting a character-based fantasy in which all the people in the story are believable and lovable in their own way. I was expecting awesomeness. I was expecting anything that was not this. Ethan is annoying as Hell, with his dramatic inner monologue and dorky/over-done admiration for Lena. Lena was oblivious to pretty much everything going on with Ridley and and just plain stupid. Ridley whined about every godamn thing you could possibly imagine. I wanted to throttle her. I don't know if this series was always this melodramatic and I'm just realizing it now, or if it's only this book. There was so much angst and pessimism and just.... ugh! This trainwreck wasn't even saved by it's sparkling plotline, either. It was so see through I only needed a few chapters to figure out how this book was going to go. I wasn't surprised at all, and there was no feeling of suspense since I pretty much knew how it would end. Here's advice to everyone ever planning on writing a fiction book: if your plot has too many twists, the surprises become unsurprising. Everyone knows what happens next and then we get frustrated because the POV character hasn't realized what is so blatantly obvious to the rest of us. Then we get annoyed and skeptical. And that's when our opinion of your book goes straight to hell. The Caster Chronicles series is a perfect example of that theory. I can't recall how many \"major\" revelation scenes I have read in these books: Lena being a caster, Boo being a seeing-eye dog, Macon coming back from the dead, Liv being a Keeper-in-training, etc... There were lots . After a while, you get used to the author's way of thinking and start to unravel the mysteries ahead of the time you're supposed to. That's exactly what happened for me here. I figured out who The One who is Two was before Ethan even deciphered the meaning of the words, I knew where John Breed was, I knew who Liv would end up loving. Through most of the story, I was like, \"Dude, are you drunk or something? MAKE THE CONNECTION!\", facepalming and groaning and waiting for their annoying slow-paced minds to catch up. Also, the character's personalities amplified my irritation a ton. Lena was, as Liv had called it, being a total \"emo Caster girl.\" Normally, I would write a long lecture bitching about how \"emo\" is a pile of bullshit and just a stereotype and all, but in this case, the term seems somehow right . Really, if I did believe in emo, Lena would fit the description perfectly. She's constantly acknowledging how terrible life is, trying to be deep, always saying crap about how Ethan is her whole world, and just overall extremely angsty. She made me want to sit her down in front of a TV and just force her to watch a My Little Pony marathon until she would cheer the hell up for once and smile [image error] SEE THAT PONY, LENA? THAT PONY IS HAPPY! WOULD IT BE SO FREAKING HARD TO SMILE WITHOUT HAVING TO MAKE OUT WITH ETHAN FIRST? SERIOUSLY! Then there's Ethan. God, was he annoying! He's lovesick with Lena, and very very metaphorical. It was like he was trying to impersonate a forty-year old English teacher. His narration was way too wistful to be believable that it was thought by a teenage boy. He kept being all wise and crap, and I'm just so sick of it. [image error] That dude in the picture gives me the creeps. Anyway! John Breed was Ethan's nuclear bomb trigger. Ethan would not shut up about how much he hates John and how he's not to be trusted and probably lying and blah blah I don't give a shit. I wanted to pat John on the back and apologize for Ethan, because apparently he's incapable of acting any more mature than an irritable five year old when you put them in the same room together. So basically, he's very calm unless you put John Breed in his path. Then he's all \"MUST. DESTROY. ENEMY.\" I pity John. I really do. There was one more character that I wanted to slap... Who was it?.... RIDLEY! Yes, Ridley. I had seen some true potential for her, what with the badass personality and \"F you, I'm awesome\" kind of attitude. I thought she'd be that one character who ends up saving the day with their awesome last-minute idea, or slicing off people's heads with an axe of death or whatever. Turns out, if you take away her siren powers, she's no better than Lena. Ridley spent the duration of this book whining about being human. I hate being a mortal. Mortals are so weak. I am better than mortals. Mortals suck. I need my powers back. Life sucks. I'm wearing my skin tight stripper clothes, so therefore I'm better than you. Look how immortal I am. Mortals are the bane of my existence. Mortals, mortals, mortals... For the love of Christ, SHUT THE HELL UP ALREADY! She does nothing but complain ! I complain all the time, too, but not the way she does it! She's just hatred, denial, and more angst. Whoopsy. Didn't mean to try and kill you with a vase, Ridley. Just a muscle spasm. Really. On top of Ridley's ear-shattering shrieks of depression, she decides to make everyone's life just that much harder by messing with the Tunnels and casts. Then we have Lena, whose so involved with her misery that she's absolutely oblivious this. Looky what I found on page 68: Lena shrugged. \"He didn't want to keep his old room. And he sleeps in his study in the Tunnels most of the time, anyway.\" \"Good choice for Ridley's room. Because she's not the kind of girl who would sneak out a secret passageway in the middle of the night,\" I said. Lena paused, her hand on the doorway. \"Ethan. She's the least magical person in the house. She's got to be more afraid of going down there than any of---\" BRILLIANT, LENA. Just brilliant. Your evil diabolical cousin who thinks that breaking cheerleaders' necks is a fun passtime would never do something as complicated as going into a dark tunnel. I mean, if I were a sadistic whiny bitch, I know I'd be just terrified of a scary cave. Totally. This is not the first show of Lena's stupidity towards Ridley in this novel. She also casts a spell on Ridley to make her appear to be wearing casual clothes and not her hooker revealing outfits. Keep in mind that The Order is broken, and Lena's accidentally setting things on fire all over the place. She could've lit her cousin up like a fire work on the 4th of July, and yet she does it anyway. And for what? So that Ridley looks like a \"proper young lady\"? Lena could have easily just said to her Grandma, \"My powers are acting weird, so I shouldn't cast on Rid, because she might spontaneously combust instead.\" No, let's take a chance. She may as well been screaming \"INCENDIO!\" with a magic wand. Also, another thing about Lena I find hard to believe: She broke the universe. Okay, how would her claiming herself break the entire goddamn universe? Do you really think lifeforms on a planet 50 bazilliontrillion galaxies away from the Milky Way actually gives a shit about some girl and her coming-of-age issues? No, they don't! So why should they have to die because of her stupid problem? WE MEAN NOTHING TO THE REST OF THE UNIVERSE! WE ARE MEANINGLESS! Sorry. That's the realist/pessimist in me shining through. I was so happy in Beautiful Darkness when Macon came back. Practically jumping with joy. But even he has a mild case of stupiditis. His once charming manner has become more frantic and spacey. He's also lacking in sense. Page 78: \"Olivia, it's not only the universe that could be destroyed. It's my niece.\" Illogical. If there is no universe, there is automatically no Lena. There's no reason to separate the two that have the same outcome: Lena dead. I think really the only characters I didn't have a problem with were the Sisters, Link, and the Lilium. The sisters were hilarious, and I love reading about forgetful argument-prone old ladies. The Lilium I liked because she was just cool. She was all calm and relaxed and yet intimidating, and she dissed Abraham Ravenwood without hesitation. Speaking of dissing, I really liked Liv in this book, especially when she was under the Furor spell. She pwned Lena and she said what I've been dying to say to Lena for this entire book: \"That is for all the whining, Princess.\" \"What?\" Lena's hair started to curl, her green and gold eyes narrowing. Liv went on. \"Poor, beautiful me. My gorgeous boyfriend is so in love with me, but my heart is broken because---hey---that's how beautiful emo girls like me are supposed to act.\" \"Shut up!\" Lena looked like she was about to punch Liv in the face. I heard thunder rumble in the sky. \"Instead of being happy that a great guy loves me, I'm going to slap on some more black nail polish and run off with some other gorgeous guy.\" \"That's not what happened!\" Lena swung at Live, but I caught her arm. Rain started to fall. Liv kept talking. \"And---wait for it---I'm the most powerful Caster in the universe. In case the rest of you lowly mortals didn't already feel like total crap.\" OH. MY. CHIZNIP. Liv is a gift from the gods. I couldn't have put it better myself. I was hoping Liv's little speech would make Lena stop and think, \"Hey, what am I doing with myself?\" and then maybe she'd stop being so \"emo,\" but no. She just went back into denial. Again . Sigh. This novel was a disgrace to the other books. It's a disgrace to other wizard/witch books. It was a disgrace to the apocalypse. It was just sad. I think I liked the last ten pages. That was about it. I beg you, <---A>Kami Garcia</---A>: Get your act together. I don't want to deal with this crapload in the next book. ...more \u201cThe mortal world is in a state of Beautiful Chaos and destruction, which will ultimately lead to an exquisite end.\u201d My favorite cover in the series because YELLOW! LOL! Like what I said in my review of Beautiful Darkness, the title of this third book of Caster Chronicles are very much suitable to what is happening inside the book. Beautiful Chaos. Like my brain during and after reading it. Actually, I almost lose my mind because there's a lot of events happened to Ethan, there's a lot of revel \u201cThe mortal world is in a state of Beautiful Chaos and destruction, which will ultimately lead to an exquisite end.\u201d My favorite cover in the series because YELLOW! LOL! Like what I said in my review of Beautiful Darkness, the title of this third book of Caster Chronicles are very much suitable to what is happening inside the book. Beautiful Chaos. Like my brain during and after reading it. Actually, I almost lose my mind because there's a lot of events happened to Ethan, there's a lot of revelations and twists, unexpected, that gave way to another more twists. Overlapped twists, in short. I can't even. There are unanswered questions that I hoped will be answered on the last installment. New intriguing characters are summoned. Very essential to the plot. And the ending left me o.O ...more I gotta warn ya.... Your going to cry a lot when you read the last about 120 pages of this book. Right now, writing this, I'm still crying... I cried harder and harder as I passed each page. I expect another book to the series.. If not... I'm forming a mob and attacking Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl.. But then they wouldn't be able to write... So, yeah I'll think about later. Ethan Wate is the most absolute thoughtful guy on earth. I would fell in love with him in Beautiful Creatures, cared and I gotta warn ya.... Your going to cry a lot when you read the last about 120 pages of this book. Right now, writing this, I'm still crying... I cried harder and harder as I passed each page. I expect another book to the series.. If not... I'm forming a mob and attacking Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl.. But then they wouldn't be able to write... So, yeah I'll think about later. Ethan Wate is the most absolute thoughtful guy on earth. I would fell in love with him in Beautiful Creatures, cared and praying for him in Beautiful Darkness, and fell head over heels for him in Beautiful Chaos. Lena couldn't me more Lena... and my heart seriously beats for John Breed. I prayed for Aunt Prue and loved Amma all the way. *To Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl* I love you for writing this wonderful series and for sharing with us the dark elumanitive Caster World. For telling us the tale of the most tender love. Thank you. ...more I just finished reading an advanced reader of Beautiful Chaos - the tears are not yet dry on my face. If you've read the previous two books, you already know this is about the parochial and sometimes beleaguered southern city of Gatlin. Beautiful Chaos is about love, not just the fun kissy face kind of love, although there is plenty of that, it's about the deep abiding devotion that love can engender. As Ethan Wate struggles to understand his world, he learns that great sacrifices and rewards ca I just finished reading an advanced reader of Beautiful Chaos - the tears are not yet dry on my face. If you've read the previous two books, you already know this is about the parochial and sometimes beleaguered southern city of Gatlin. Beautiful Chaos is about love, not just the fun kissy face kind of love, although there is plenty of that, it's about the deep abiding devotion that love can engender. As Ethan Wate struggles to understand his world, he learns that great sacrifices and rewards can come from love of family and friends. This is a big book, just like we expect in this series, full of magic, the titular chaos, and some sweet funny moments - mostly brought by Ethan's best friend the Linkubus! Read this! ...more 2 Painful Stars! I am still having a hard time reading this series\u2026 and an even harder time reviewing it\u2026 However, it is over\u2026 Beautiful Chaos (Caster Chronicles #3)BY Kami Garcia Lissa\u2019s Third Hardest Review Ever I had stated in my review of book two Beautiful Darkness that I honestly could not wait to see where the authors are taking the story. Well, the authors took me on a long journey that lead to, what I am sure is another book. Just like with the first two in the series I had a hard time k 2 Painful Stars! I am still having a hard time reading this series\u2026 and an even harder time reviewing it\u2026 However, it is over\u2026 Beautiful Chaos (Caster Chronicles #3)BY Kami Garcia Lissa\u2019s Third Hardest Review Ever I had stated in my review of book two Beautiful Darkness that I honestly could not wait to see where the authors are taking the story. Well, the authors took me on a long journey that lead to, what I am sure is another book. Just like with the first two in the series I had a hard time keeping myself focused on the book. As the other books book three never grabbed hold of me demanding that I keep reading. I think, mostly, because it reminded me so much of book one. Similar to my reviews of this series, the book three followed the same format as the book one. I almost expected Rid to destroy the dance, when she showed eyes blazing underneath her shades. The intense scene that should have glues me to the pages faltered because I already knew the flame would die out after a few sentences. Beautiful Chaos was a better story than book one. I think it could have been better had the authors closed up all the details and let the story end. The authors will need a lifeline for book three unless they figure out draw the audience in. That said, I do want to know how the story ends and I think the author can accomplish that in a few more chapters. Which begs me to wonder how much useless information will be in book four. In addition, the authors were keeping with dates for chapters. However, with the book it clicked\u2026The authors decide to date the chapter the way one would with a journal or diary. It took until the final chapter to tie that together as John Breeds birthday was December 22 and the chapter was titled 12*22. It took that long because either the authors were not clear, or I did not bother to make the connection. In closing, it was okay. However, instead of reading the series, I would suggest reading the reviews. ...more Waiting one year for this book after reading Beautiful Darkness was absolute torture. October was legit the month where all my favorite original YA series came out. Beautiful Creatures, Hush Hush, well they started my love for YA and a bunch of other genres. And after FINALLY reading Beautiful Chaos...well I have to say that I was not disappointed. When I first opened the book, I was a little confused with what was going on because it's been so long since I've read the previous two books in the Waiting one year for this book after reading Beautiful Darkness was absolute torture. October was legit the month where all my favorite original YA series came out. Beautiful Creatures, Hush Hush, well they started my love for YA and a bunch of other genres. And after FINALLY reading Beautiful Chaos...well I have to say that I was not disappointed. When I first opened the book, I was a little confused with what was going on because it's been so long since I've read the previous two books in the series. But everything quickly came back when the plot picked up. Everything was an absolute nightmare in Gatlin because of the Order being broken. The plot in this book was very exciting and nerve racking, especially with all the drama going on which I loved. Another thing I love in this book is Ethan Wate! After two books, he is finally without a doubt swoonworthy in this book. He has grown up so much and finally doesn't seem overtly feminine like he did in the last book. My heart just ached for him after all he had to suffer through, right up to the end but I know that he cared for absolutely everyone in the book. I also liked Lena a lot more in this book. It was nice for a change to see a couple want to be together and fight to be together instead of apart or even better, go through a love triangle. Thankfully, they moved on from this stage. Lena also matured a lot and it was great to see how involved she was in the relationship. So much more than she was from the last book. I could really feel the love this time and it was great. :) It was really great seeing more of some of my old favorite characters. Amma of course, although she was more emotional in this book than ever before but for good reasons. It made me heartbroken to see her so sad. I also liked seeing Ethan's dad a lot more, especially since he's becoming more of himself. It was a surprise not seeing much of Macon in this book and he seemed more grave about what was to come. But of course, my favorite character...Link! My dear Linkubus! Holy cow, Link was so so so precious in this book. Watching him going through his changes was strange but he was still Ethan's best friend through it all, beginning to end. And he loved Ridley. At first, Ridley and Link had a cute 'I'm going to make you jealous' game going on but then it got old. And my heart absolutely broke when (view spoiler)[Link said he wanted to take her cross country, just the two of them, because he loved her. I got so mad when Ridley said no. I mean, its so obvious they care about each other that it made me mad when she wasn't willing to go halfway because of her insecurities. (hide spoiler)] But I have a feeling this will be resolved by the end. Fingers crossed! I was also pleasantly surprised with the twist on John Breed, especially with all that happened in the last book. I also liked Liv a lot more, especially since she only wanted to be friends with Ethan and she had her eyes set on another...;) Overall, I loved this book so much. The ending absolutely killed me. As it was approaching, I could not stop crying because of the characters who didn't get their happy ending. But at the same time, there's still a chance for a good ending with the way Kami and Maragaret left it. I don't want to have to wait another damn year to get this book but unfortunately, time machines haven't been invented yet. Can't wait to see how this series finally ends. Rating: 5 out of 5 Stars ...more This was fantastic! Even better than the two previous installments and it just keeps getting better and better by each book. I just love how every book seems to be focused on a virtue, like this one that was about sacrifice and doing the right thing when you know it's the only way to help those you love! Ethan Wate is an amazing dude, I just idolize him. He is a person who would do anything, anything at all, for those he loves and that's what he did in the end of this book!! And I was left gaping li This was fantastic! Even better than the two previous installments and it just keeps getting better and better by each book. I just love how every book seems to be focused on a virtue, like this one that was about sacrifice and doing the right thing when you know it's the only way to help those you love! Ethan Wate is an amazing dude, I just idolize him. He is a person who would do anything, anything at all, for those he loves and that's what he did in the end of this book!! And I was left gaping like an idiot and was turning pages to check if it sure was the ending of this book and when I realized it was I started screaming at my iPad. Yeah, well, awkward. With every book every character seems to be evolved as person and that's what I love about this series because they ALL learn through their mistakes (except, maybe, for Ridley who I love but she keeps making a mess out of everything). But what's important is that you see what family means and what real friends are and how they all stand by you when the time comes. I am just looking forward to reading the last book in the series although I am not sure I am quite ready to see it coming to an end.. I'm certainly going to miss it, anyhow. ...more I LOVED IT!!!!!! I think the ending was disappointing if there isn't going to be a sequel. Did anyone else notice the \"Nineteen Moons\" thing on the back page? The cliff hanger. Oh the cliff hanger. How I hate cliff hangers. The way the story ends... ughhh! I really can't believe it. Never have I read a book with this big of a cliff hanger. Anywho, continuing on. I liked Beautiful Chaos a lot more than Beautiful Darkness. There are a lot of secrets and a lot of sleuthing but on the down side, I found this book was very predictable. Well, at least some parts... the most important part. (view spoiler) [ I mean really. The one who is two. Ethan's two souls. Ca The cliff hanger. Oh the cliff hanger. How I hate cliff hangers. The way the story ends... ughhh! I really can't believe it. Never have I read a book with this big of a cliff hanger. Anywho, continuing on. I liked Beautiful Chaos a lot more than Beautiful Darkness. There are a lot of secrets and a lot of sleuthing but on the down side, I found this book was very predictable. Well, at least some parts... the most important part. (view spoiler) [ I mean really. The one who is two. Ethan's two souls. Can it get anymore obvious? I also found the battle with Sarafine was, well, not that big of a bang. I was expecting a whole action scene. Now don't get me wrong, it wasn't horrible but it was kinda a letdown for me. It was more about emotions than fighting. I would have enjoyed a little more action in with the emotions but what can you do? I was also surprised at how fast Lena got over burning her mom to death. (hide spoiler) ] I couldn't put this book down . I was up to two in the morning bawling in the last what? 50-100 pages? Towards the end it was so heart breaking. I was crying so hard I had to get up and grab a tissue to blow my nose. Twice. I quite liked this book but I suggest you reread Beautiful Creatures and Beautiful Darkness first because I was a bit confused. I forgot a lot of the details and minor characters mentioned in the first two books but that might just be me. If you can't stand cliff hangers then you should wait until the fourth book's release date is closer because this one is horrid. All in all a great book and if you haven't read it yet, then I suggest you get cracking! ...more This book took me 3 years go get to. Book 2 was just so rough that I almost contemplated giving up on this series. Thankfully, I chose to complete it. I really enjoyed this book. I knew how it ended (I spoiled myself on this book when I didnt think I would read more) but I really enjoyed learning how to get there. I particularly enjoyed two specific things about this book: 1. Less Lena than usual. She was still there, yes, but less. I hate her character so much that I just don't want her around a This book took me 3 years go get to. Book 2 was just so rough that I almost contemplated giving up on this series. Thankfully, I chose to complete it. I really enjoyed this book. I knew how it ended (I spoiled myself on this book when I didnt think I would read more) but I really enjoyed learning how to get there. I particularly enjoyed two specific things about this book: 1. Less Lena than usual. She was still there, yes, but less. I hate her character so much that I just don't want her around and therefore was really happy to have just more Ethan alone and with Link. I much prefer, and ship, him with Liv. I know she's moved on in her love life, but I really don't like Lena at all. 2. Ridley is gone. Another character I truly hate and am so glad to see gone (there's no way I'll read her companion series). I truly hope she doesn't end up with Link because he deserves better. This isn't really a review, just thoughts I had, but I'm glad I read it (even though I actually listened to it) and I am looking forward to completing another series soon! My goal of finishing series is going pretty well. ...more It's been a while since I've got my hands on a Beautiful Creatures book, but I remember that I looooved the first books. However, I had a hard time remembering some of the characters this time around, which was my main problem with the book. But that's entirelly my fault, so about Beautiful Chaos, it's a nice book. Some chapters are great!! Some, not so much. The few twists were entertaining and I loved them, as they did give a certain interest into the plot. However, the story is a little confu It's been a while since I've got my hands on a Beautiful Creatures book, but I remember that I looooved the first books. However, I had a hard time remembering some of the characters this time around, which was my main problem with the book. But that's entirelly my fault, so about Beautiful Chaos, it's a nice book. Some chapters are great!! Some, not so much. The few twists were entertaining and I loved them, as they did give a certain interest into the plot. However, the story is a little confusing, with the Lilum and Ethan being not-Ethan and the supposed thrill we had to get from the mystery of the One who is Two, well, it wasn't that big deal. I mean, I've figured it out from the beginning, and I'm not that good at mysteries, so... All in all, a nice book, but not as good as the first ones. I hope the ending will be better, but I've got the feeling that I'm expecting too much out of it... ...more OMG the ending just killed me :( i need book 4 asap! 2.5 stars Well... To start I am kind of disappointed with this book. First, I don't like books in the in between of the series, meaning that they star with some problem (the plot) and end up not resolving that problem. Second, I really wanted to like this book, I was patient enough to finish it. The thing is it just goes with a slow pace rhythm, giving details about the past, you know like when Ethan or Lena touch something significant. Revealing more of the life about sarafine when she was lena's age. The Well... To start I am kind of disappointed with this book. First, I don't like books in the in between of the series, meaning that they star with some problem (the plot) and end up not resolving that problem. Second, I really wanted to like this book, I was patient enough to finish it. The thing is it just goes with a slow pace rhythm, giving details about the past, you know like when Ethan or Lena touch something significant. Revealing more of the life about sarafine when she was lena's age. The whole book they are trying to find out someone who is two, so that person will save the town and the whole world mortal and Caster from an Apocalypse, and that it!!!! I was waiting for more action. Yeah there was some cool stuff, like link learning to be a better linkubus, Ridley being ridley, some destruction in the town, stuff about John Breed. And then at the end, if you call that a good end, you really have to get the other book, seriously, the end of the third book is stuck until the other one comes up. I guess I will have to read the next one, it better be good, enough to repair the chaos that has done this one. And here are my favorite quotes: \"I will love you until the day after forever\" - I really like this quote it was said by sarafine, but actually it came out of sarafine's favorite book \"Great Expectations\" \"When I first met you that's what I remembered. I looked up at the sky and thought, 'I'm going to love this person because even the sky looks different.'\" ___ I was thrilled be this quote, Lena said it to Ethan, and then was left speechless, just as I did. ...more Actual rating: 4.5 stars. I wish I had the final book so I can find out what happens next. Because this book ended on a major cliffhanger (almost literally). And I want to find out what happens!!!!!!! No doubt Ethan's alive, but still... It was awhile I finished second book, so I had a little difficulty returning to this world. A lot of things I forgot, but thankfully it wasn't much confusing as I thought it would be. OH MY GOD, JOHN BREED!!!!!!!! *fangirling* AND LINK AND RIDLEY!!!!!!!!!! *harder Actual rating: 4.5 stars. I wish I had the final book so I can find out what happens next. Because this book ended on a major cliffhanger (almost literally). And I want to find out what happens!!!!!!! No doubt Ethan's alive, but still... It was awhile I finished second book, so I had a little difficulty returning to this world. A lot of things I forgot, but thankfully it wasn't much confusing as I thought it would be. OH MY GOD, JOHN BREED!!!!!!!! *fangirling* AND LINK AND RIDLEY!!!!!!!!!! *harder fangirling*. Don't get your hopes up. They're not together. Again. And she betrayed them. Again. I don't know what to say about this book. Nothing stands out to me. It was great like the others from this series, and I liked all the mystery. Just go read it, please. P.S: If I don't get the final book as soon as possible, I'm going to jump off the nearest bridge (which is half an hour away (by bus), and the water isn't that deep). I NEED TO KNOW!!!!!!!!!!!! ...more https://trustinthewords.wordpress.com... Here's my review, hope you guys like it and I truly loved this book. I'm never disappointed by this authors, this book was just, YES, what I needed. The only thing standing in the way of this book getting 5 stars is the length. I never really thought I would say that a book was too long but here I am. While I LOVED about 90% of this book, I think that it is a little long for YA. Now enough of that...let's get on with the book! The heat is rising, the insects are swarming, the lake has dried up...these are just a few of the things that are happening to the fine town of Gatlin ever since Lena claimed herself, split the moon, and threw the Order The only thing standing in the way of this book getting 5 stars is the length. I never really thought I would say that a book was too long but here I am. While I LOVED about 90% of this book, I think that it is a little long for YA. Now enough of that...let's get on with the book! The heat is rising, the insects are swarming, the lake has dried up...these are just a few of the things that are happening to the fine town of Gatlin ever since Lena claimed herself, split the moon, and threw the Order out of whack. So while Ethan finally gets his Lena back, nothing else seems to be going right. Only this time it's not just the Caster world that's being affected. If they don't find a way to restore the Order before the Eighteenth Moon then both Caster & Mortals are going to meet an untimely fate. The question is will The One That Is Two be willing to meet his/her fate to save all others? And more importantly who is this person? With so many choices as to who it could be will Lena, Ethan, and the gang be able to figure it out in time and save the world? First I just want to say how HAPPY I am that Lena and Ethan are finally back to the loving relationship that they should be in. Together they are both so sweet, and cute, and *swoons*. Need I say more? Because I can...I really, really could just keep going on and on about how cute these two are. It's nice to see this book isn't all about fighting for their relationship anymore. It's nice to see them a whole lot less insecure and a lot in love with each other. But enough about them. What about Amma? OMG I both loved and hated her in this book. I never released how much I needed Amma until this book. Just the things she says, and the things she does...I love her for all her dark moments, but then to see her break down? To slowly lose it piece by piece? Lets just say that she took my heart with her mind when she lost those final pieces. In the end between her and Ethan I spent the last 20 pages crying to the point I had to keep putting the book down to wipe my eyes. So while I thought that this book was a bit long in places, and at times wasn't sure if I was going to be able to finish it, in the end I LOVED this book and it was so worth it! With an ending that will make you ball your eyes out you'll be left screaming for more. I can't believe how they left the ending, but I so applaud them for doing it. ...more Wow, talk about cliff hangers on this one! It's a good thing I already have Beautiful Redemption because, otherwise, I would probably just sit around and cry about it for(pretty much)ever. (view spoiler) [When Beautiful Chaos ended, I felt like I was falling along with Ethan, and all of a sudden, BAM! it's over. (hide spoiler) ] I loved finding out more about John Breed, but I hope there is even more coming! Learning about the Far Keep was interesting as well. I love Link and Ridley together so mu Wow, talk about cliff hangers on this one! It's a good thing I already have Beautiful Redemption because, otherwise, I would probably just sit around and cry about it for(pretty much)ever. (view spoiler) [When Beautiful Chaos ended, I felt like I was falling along with Ethan, and all of a sudden, BAM! it's over. (hide spoiler) ] I loved finding out more about John Breed, but I hope there is even more coming! Learning about the Far Keep was interesting as well. I love Link and Ridley together so much. I wasn't entirely happy with how they played out, but I hope that all will be corrected in the next book. (view spoiler) [ Linkubus is genius. I can't help but wonder if the authors named him Link just so he could be Linkubus. (hide spoiler) ] These books keep getting better and better, and I'm anxious to see how the story ends! ...more Ever read a book and it starts as like BAH... THIS IS GOING TO BE LONG. DO I HAVE TO KEEP READING? And then you are sucked in and it's 3:00am, you need to sleep so you can go to work/school/take care of your family and you cannot put it down. AT ALL. I did a marathon of reading this afternoon and don't regret it all. The ending was exactly what I expected, so that wasn't too much of a surprise, but I what I did not expect was several side characters to be so freakin' amazing! Kami and Margaret cont Ever read a book and it starts as like BAH... THIS IS GOING TO BE LONG. DO I HAVE TO KEEP READING? And then you are sucked in and it's 3:00am, you need to sleep so you can go to work/school/take care of your family and you cannot put it down. AT ALL. I did a marathon of reading this afternoon and don't regret it all. The ending was exactly what I expected, so that wasn't too much of a surprise, but I what I did not expect was several side characters to be so freakin' amazing! Kami and Margaret continue to really pull out their knowledge and experience with this series, and grow with each novel. Both women put a lot of heart and soul into these books, these stories, and I can't wait to see what else comes up in the Caster Chronicles! ...more It's been a while since I read Beautiful Darkness, and that was a pretty slow book for me, so I was really hesitant about starting Beautiful Chaos. However, I'm really happy I did. This was my favorite book in the series, by far. The plot picked up much sooner than the previous two, and the stakes were so much higher. I also enjoyed that it WASN'T ABOUT LENA! Seriously though, she is the worst character in the series and it was nice not to hear about her as much. If this book is anything like the It's been a while since I read Beautiful Darkness, and that was a pretty slow book for me, so I was really hesitant about starting Beautiful Chaos. However, I'm really happy I did. This was my favorite book in the series, by far. The plot picked up much sooner than the previous two, and the stakes were so much higher. I also enjoyed that it WASN'T ABOUT LENA! Seriously though, she is the worst character in the series and it was nice not to hear about her as much. If this book is anything like the series' conclusion will be, I'm excited. But I swear to god, these moon songs are more annoying than I remember. ...more Troubled and dark times are ahead with everything out of balance. Will Ethan and Lena be able to figure it out? Will Link get used to his new self? So many changes and different things going on - will this be the end of the world for Gaitlin? Mixed emotions about this one. I did enjoy parts of this, mostly John and Liv. I totally called who the \"two souls in one\" which is always fun to guess plot twists correctly. But overall I found this to be lacking and I couldn't really get into it like the previous two books.", "Title": "Beautiful Chaos"},
