{"Comments": "If you've seen the movie version, this book takes up about the first third or maybe half of the movie (<---B>from what I remember</---B>), but don't let that fool you into thinking nothing much happens in this book. <---C>Mia Thermopolis</---C> lives in Manhattan with her artist mother Helen, going to a private school called Albert Einstein High and spending the summers with her father and his mother at her chateau in France. She knows they're rich, but she thinks her dad is just a politician. At school she's unpopular an If you've seen the movie version, this book takes up about the first third or maybe half of the movie (from what I remember), but don't let that fool you into thinking nothing much happens in this book. Mia Thermopolis lives in Manhattan with her artist mother Helen, going to a private school called Albert Einstein High and spending the summers with her father and his mother at her chateau in France. She knows they're rich, but she thinks her dad is just a politician. At school she's unpopular and has \"triangular\" hair; her best friend Lilly has her own tv show and is trying to expose the racism of the Chinese owners of the deli across the road for discounting Asian students 5 cents; she's in love with the most popular boy at school, Josh, who doesn't even seem to know she's alive; she's failing Algebra; and her mum is going out with her teacher Mr Gianini. Life is already a bit of a strain and when her dad tells her he's the crown prince of Genovia and, since his testicular cancer has left him unable to have more children, Mia is now the heir to the throne, it becomes even more unbearable. She's seriously not happy about the news, but makes a compromise with her Dad: that she'll keep going to school like normal, but would spend the summers in Genovia doing the princess thing. She wasn't expecting her formidable grandmother to come to New York to give her princess lessons, and she wasn't expecting the same grandmother to leak the story to the press. Now she's suddenly popular but it's the last thing she wants. Mia is effortlessly engaging, her voice and personality coming through strongly in her diary entries. She's funny without meaning to be,<---M> insightful without realising it</---M>, reveals more than she intends, and so allows the reader to not only really get to know her but also see what's going on more clearly than she does, as she's blinded by her own interests, passions and opinions. It's actually very cleverly written, and very funny. The grandmother is a scary character - Julie Andrews really toned the character down for the movie - she wears a purple turban, smokes a lot, drinks her favourite cocktail all the time, and comes across as somewhat harsh and even cruel. She certainly intimidates her son, Phillipe, and anyone else who crosses her path. She may have met her match with Mia - and I can see that as Mia slowly grows, matures and, yes, transforms, she'll probably have a softening effect on her grandmother as well. She's certainly got an interesting past, but we only get hints of it at this stage. Essentially, what saves this book from being just another YA journal-style teenage girl gushathon is Mia's liveliness, her spirit, her humour and, well, her . She's a wonderful protagonist and a good role model - not that she doesn't make some pretty silly mistakes and choices along the way. She's also a familiar character, and reminds me that what's considered \"ordinary\" usually disguises something pretty extraordinary. Plus, I love her summing-up of Marx's contradictions of capitalism; despite the fluffy pink cover, this is no Gossip Girls kind of book - Mia's not into having the latest crap: she's a conscientious worrier, and wants to join Greenpeace to save the whales. She's a bit of a dag, really, and that makes her infinitely likeable, even loveable. ...<---F>more Note : contains spoilers </---F>. Did you love this movie? 'Cause I did. Decide that you should give the book a try? I mean it is only fair since you have seen the movie. Me too. Want some advice? Don't bother. Because I am assuming that you'll be picturing the amazingly gorgeous Anne Hathaway as the zany, hilarious and quirky American high school teen girl, turned accidental Genovian princess, like she plays in the movie... And the beautiful Julie Andrews as the royal Queen with her helpful, benevolent, ca Note : contains spoilers . Did you love this movie? 'Cause I did. Decide that you should give the book a try? I mean it is only fair since you have seen the movie. Me too. Want some advice? Don't bother. Because I am assuming that you'll be picturing the amazingly gorgeous Anne Hathaway as the zany, hilarious and quirky American high school teen girl, turned accidental Genovian princess, like she plays in the movie... And the beautiful Julie Andrews as the royal Queen with her helpful, benevolent, caring, grandmotherly nature... Of the peculiar but funny Heather Matarazzo as the weird bestie, Lilly Moscovitz With all the other funny, funny secondary characters, such as my favourites: Joe, the bodyguard, And Lilly\u2019s brother, Michael, of course, If you are going to, which you probably are (I admit, I did too), then you shouldn\u2019t bother. It isn\u2019t anything like the movie! It feels weird just saying that. I am one of the annoying girls who usually \u2013 pretty much always - end up despising movies based on books. This has to be one of the few, if only, that I would say the movie is better than book. Yes, I know. Bring on the hate . I feel like slapping myself for just saying that, but its true! In the book, Mia is a whiny, irritable girl of fourteen who complains about any- and everything. From her flat chest (which she measures nearly every day to see if it has grown and whines about it every second paragraph) to her controlling grandmere to her cat, who eats socks. Lily is a witch who blames everything on Mia and has serious control-freak issues. Her mother is a spaced-out, artistic, hippie-like woman who never does anything other than paint. Her father is alive (he isn\u2019t in the movie) and is a hypocritical pain-in-the-butt who does whatever her pleases. Josh is even more stupid, alcoholic, man-whore who dumps his girlfriend (Lana) to ask Mia to the school dance where he kiss ambushes her in front of the press in an attempt to get famous. Don\u2019t even get me started on Grandmere. The kind, lovely women played by Julie Andrews? No, I loved her! I mean the monster that she is supposed to be based on. I cannot even express how much I hated her! The only good character were Michael, Lilly's older brother, who is decently nice and kind to Mia and Tina, a school mate of Mia's who is the only realistic character in the whole book. She is funny and kind and just nice ! The plot only covers about half the movie and centres on Mia whining and whinging. I get that some of her problems are pretty stressful, like her mother going out with her algebra teacher. But Mr Gianni is actually really nice, so she could cut him a break! Plus, the revelation of Mia being the heir of Genovia was over and done within a few paragraphs. It was over-dramatized and had me like\u2026 Really, that\u2019s how you going to react to becoming a princess? What is wrong with you? Overall, this book was so damn disappointing. I wasn\u2019t expecting any sort of Shakespeare literature. All I wanted was a light-hearted, cute, funny, chick lit book that could amuse me for a little while but all I got was a stupid, pointless and lame story which bored me to bits a pieces. Just to reiterate my point: if you are reading this book because you liked the movie, prepare for the worse or abandon ship now, before the damage is done! If you haven\u2019t seen the movie before reading this book, I don\u2019t know what you\u2019ll think\u2026 but I am sure the movie will probably be really different for you. ...more This is WAY different than the movie. Mia's personality is younger and sillier, but it became less irritating and more endearing after a bit. I still mostly just wanted the book to be over, though. I didn't realize this plot only covered like the first half of the movie and that so many things had been changed... and changed for the better. Basically, skip the book and stick with the movie (unless you're in middle school because then you might like the narrator and this series way more). I first read this series YEARS ago but thought it was time for a reread with A Royal Wedding coming out this summer! I simply loved it! I thought maybe since I'm so much older I wouldn't like it as much, and that maybe I'd get annoyed even.. (Freshman Mia can be a little dramatic) but I didn't! It was perfect! Excited to continue reading on until the new book comes out! In some ways, I actually feel like I connect better with Mia now then I did before, not because I'm a princess secretly or beca I first read this series YEARS ago but thought it was time for a reread with A Royal Wedding coming out this summer! I simply loved it! I thought maybe since I'm so much older I wouldn't like it as much, and that maybe I'd get annoyed even.. (Freshman Mia can be a little dramatic) but I didn't! It was perfect! Excited to continue reading on until the new book comes out! In some ways, I actually feel like I connect better with Mia now then I did before, not because I'm a princess secretly or because I'm having boy problems.. But I never realized before how much Mia talks about being a vegetarian and animal rights and stuff! It was pretty awesome! I also love her mom and Fat Louie :D (view spoiler) [ I forgot that Michael was into Mia so early on.. Isn't a bit odd that a senior likes a Freshman? Idk.. Maybe it's just me! (hide spoiler) ] ...more I never got around to reading this when I was the protagonist Mia's age, and since the book and movie series became so popular, I recently decided to take a trip back to childhood and finally read this book. It was a quick read, thankfully, but I didn't find it nearly as endearing as the movie version (which is substantially different from the novel). The book seemed awfully light on plot and substance. Character development was minimal, and as a result, most of the characters (including Mia) we I never got around to reading this when I was the protagonist Mia's age, and since the book and movie series became so popular, I recently decided to take a trip back to childhood and finally read this book. It was a quick read, thankfully, but I didn't find it nearly as endearing as the movie version (which is substantially different from the novel). The book seemed awfully light on plot and substance. Character development was minimal, and as a result, most of the characters (including Mia) weren't as likable or relatable as they could have been. Mia's melodrama became tiresome, as did her best friend's ego. The story continues with the rest of the series, so it probably improves, but the first book didn't make me eager to read the second. This may be my age talking, but I suspect I wouldn't have been interested as a young teen either. Overall, I was underwhelmed. The movie was touching, but the book...not as much. ...more Honestly, this book was a complete surprise for me! I had never read it (I know, I know) and I loved it!! So smart and clever and totally kick butt feminist. This book was so ahead of its time when it was first published. I don't know but I would guess there was backlash lol - I can't wait to pick up the next one and I definitely recommend the audiobooks as well. Anne Hathaway narrates the first three and she does an amazing job! :) I could try and nitpick and find something to critique but I ho Honestly, this book was a complete surprise for me! I had never read it (I know, I know) and I loved it!! So smart and clever and totally kick butt feminist. This book was so ahead of its time when it was first published. I don't know but I would guess there was backlash lol - I can't wait to pick up the next one and I definitely recommend the audiobooks as well. Anne Hathaway narrates the first three and she does an amazing job! :) I could try and nitpick and find something to critique but I honestly don't want to - this was a great book. ...more THIS WAS SO ADORABLE AND HILARIOUS AND NOW I NEED THE REST OF THE BOOKS RIGHT NOW PLZ THX Breve opini\u00e3o em v\u00eddeo (aos 5:16): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=exbSU... Say hello to Mia Thermopolis , 14 years old and frustrated with teendom and it's innumerable woes. To jot down a few of her frustrations: 1) She is the tallest girl in her class, has feet like skis, is gawky, geeky and has a chestline that is flatter than a surfboard. 2) Her mouse-brown/dishwater blonde hair is 'triangular' in shape and has a rampant life of it's own. 3) She is a child born of wedlock, the offspring of a tempestuous college romance between the lofty Phillipe Renaldo of Genovia ( fict Say hello to Mia Thermopolis , 14 years old and frustrated with teendom and it's innumerable woes. To jot down a few of her frustrations: 1) She is the tallest girl in her class, has feet like skis, is gawky, geeky and has a chestline that is flatter than a surfboard. 2) Her mouse-brown/dishwater blonde hair is 'triangular' in shape and has a rampant life of it's own. 3) She is a child born of wedlock, the offspring of a tempestuous college romance between the lofty Phillipe Renaldo of Genovia ( fictional country in Europe located between France and Italy) and the scatterbrained, avant-garde artist Helen Thermopolis of Greenwich village. The latter, by the way, is now dating her Algebra professor, Mr.Gianini . 4) She regularly gets ridiculed by her high school nemesis: the predictably pretty and obnoxious cheerleader, Lana Weinberger . 5) She has an unrequited crush on the most popular senior in school, Josh Richter . 6) Her best friend, Lilly Moscovitz has an IQ of 170, is an opinionated radical speaker and loves to psychoanalyze Mia at every given opportunity. 7) Lilly's brother, the cool and nonchalant Michael Moscovitz would make the perfect boyfriend.... if he would only stop looking at Mia as nothing more than his kid sister's best friend. And if that carpet-bombing isn\u2019t enough, she wakes up to a startling discovery. She isn\u2019t plain old Mia Thermapolis. She is in fact *Her Royal Highness, Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldi, Crown Princess of Genovia* . Yes, that\u2019s right\u2026an honest-to-goodness, true-blue Princess. If it wasn't for the fact that her father (the current ruler of Genovia) had testicular cancer that rendered him infertile, Mia would have lived the rest of her life in happy oblivion. But now, she is the solo heir to the throne of Genovia. While finding out that you are a sparkly princess is every young girl\u2019s Disney dream come true\u2026for Mia, it\u2019s just another trial. Mia will now have to learn and deal with everything that being royalty entails. Say hello to drastic makeovers, pushy paparazzi and gold diggers riding piggyback on her newly exalted status. And guiding her will be her grandmother-from-refined-hell, Clarisse Marie Grimaldi Renaldo , the Dowager Princess of Genovia. Written in a series of journal entries, the book is hilarious and at times even drop-dead funny. Mia\u2019s hyperactive approach to life and it\u2019s vagaries is captured perfectly by the supremely talented <---A>Meg Cabot</---A> . Here\u2019s a book\u2026nay, series...that I wish was around when I was a gawky teenager going through my own personal blend of heaven \u2018n\u2019 hell back in college. <+++>The Princess Diaries</+++> series is a fun, entertaining and frothy talisman that every self-doubting teenage girl should read, commiserate and revel in. ...more Ack, this is a little awkward, but I was actually kind of disappointed by the book. I think Rachel explains it really well in her review -- we just had certain expectations from the book based on having seen and loved the movie, and the book kind of fell flat in comparison. The main character was incredibly juvenile and whiny (okay, I get it, she's 14, but still), she kept talking about how she didn't have any breasts, and none of the other characters were that likeable, either. Buuuut I will pro Ack, this is a little awkward, but I was actually kind of disappointed by the book. I think Rachel explains it really well in her review -- we just had certain expectations from the book based on having seen and loved the movie, and the book kind of fell flat in comparison. The main character was incredibly juvenile and whiny (okay, I get it, she's 14, but still), she kept talking about how she didn't have any breasts, and none of the other characters were that likeable, either. Buuuut I will probably read on, just to see if it gets better. ...more 4.5 Absolutely LOVED this! Okay, so I wasn't really planing to read this ever, because I was quite satisfied with the movie and I've heard that the books were really different. But then, Shannon from Leaning Lights (booktuber) how cute, fun they were and I find it really cheap on Thrift Books and they gave me a 20% discount because of my birthday, and I had to buy it, OK? xD But it was such a good decision. I'm still surprised that about how much I enjoy this story. I laugh out loud multiple time 4.5 Absolutely LOVED this! Okay, so I wasn't really planing to read this ever, because I was quite satisfied with the movie and I've heard that the books were really different. But then, Shannon from Leaning Lights (booktuber) how cute, fun they were and I find it really cheap on Thrift Books and they gave me a 20% discount because of my birthday, and I had to buy it, OK? xD But it was such a good decision. I'm still surprised that about how much I enjoy this story. I laugh out loud multiple times and I like Mia a lot. She is a little clueless but, c'mon, who wasn't at age 14? In general I love how seeing her grow through the story and agree with her point of views about a lot of things. There are a lot of differences between the book and the movie, so if you already watched it (and who hasn't, let's be honest) and want to read the book, it's better if you think of this stories as completely different ones -because they are. The movie have maybe a 10% of the content of the book, to be honest. ...more To see full binge review of books 1-3 click here. First things, first. The outdated pop culture references are still hilarious. Though some of them are sot of sad/cringe worthy if you think about what has happened to some of the celebrities since the publication of this book. Also, I still need to watch some of those Lifetime movies that Mia mentioned like Why Me? I still haven\u2019t been able to find that one yet. Oh, well. It was also hilarious to look at some of these characters due to spoiler purpos To see full binge review of books 1-3 click here. First things, first. The outdated pop culture references are still hilarious. Though some of them are sot of sad/cringe worthy if you think about what has happened to some of the celebrities since the publication of this book. Also, I still need to watch some of those Lifetime movies that Mia mentioned like Why Me? I still haven\u2019t been able to find that one yet. Oh, well. It was also hilarious to look at some of these characters due to spoiler purposes, and sobering too (especially if you read about a certain character\u2019s death from the excerpt posted from Royal Wedding). The writing is really simplistic. Being a grown woman, versus a gawky thirteen-year-old, it\u2019s a lot more obvious now then it was then. And it really does read like a young girl wrote it, as the series progresses Mia\u2019s voice in turn seems to progress as well. And I have to give Cabot props for that. The plot overall was really simplistic. And simple succeeds here. It\u2019s odd seeing it succeed, when I have seen several YA books fail with the same plot: The geeky girl falls is head over heals with the popular jock, only to not notice the gorgeous nerd next door. I think one of the reasons why it worked in Diaries and not so many other books is because Mia and Michael don\u2019t get together at the end of this book. The progression of the relationship isn\u2019t rushed. And besides, the Josh plot isn\u2019t really the sole focus of the book. ...more I read the first 3 books in the series yesterday and I can't decide if I think they are clever and funny or obnoxious and pretentious. Maybe you will have a different opinion. I didn't relate much to Mia; everything she stands for annoys the heck out of stuff I stand for. But she is still kinda funny anyway. Unfortunately, I couldn't finish this. I got ten pages in and I could not handle Mia's obsession with kissing and the size of her chest and half a dozen other disgusting things. I'll stick to the movies, thank you very much. Now that I've reread it as an adult I have to raise it from a 3 to a 4. I can't believe how many jokes went over my head as a kid! This was really funny! This book was absolutely charming! Audiobook with Anne Hathaway as narrator; her voice was perfect for a high schooler. Not exactly like the movie, but still a great read. Mia is an engaging teenager, really amusing. I remember seeing the movie adaptation of this book when it came out in 2001 and being absolutely mesmerized by the depth of Anne Hathaway's brown eyes and the luxuriousness of her long brown hair. To tell you the truth, I am still not over that woman. Watching as her hair was brutally shorn off in Les Mis did something to me. Anyways. I read the first three books in this series a long long time ago and it has come to my attention that there are eleven books so I have a lot of catching up to do. I remember seeing the movie adaptation of this book when it came out in 2001 and being absolutely mesmerized by the depth of Anne Hathaway's brown eyes and the luxuriousness of her long brown hair. To tell you the truth, I am still not over that woman. Watching as her hair was brutally shorn off in Les Mis did something to me. Anyways. I read the first three books in this series a long long time ago and it has come to my attention that there are eleven books so I have a lot of catching up to do. This was a simple read, perfect for when I am tired of the heavier stuff. But I must admit, I had to remind myself not to be so critical of Mia as a character because, after all, she is 14. But as far as 14 year-olds go she's not so bad. The only thing that annoyed me (and it bothered me back when I read this the first time) was her constant complaints of being flat-chested. (Honestly, this bothers me in every book I read. I'm looking at you Divergent .) She's a bit self-deprecating, which is a bummer. But I know it's very easy to look at someone else and say, \"Why do you put yourself down so much? So what if you're super tall and flat-chested?\", meanwhile you have your own problems with the mirror. Oh, I just thought of another thing that bothered me: Lilly. In the movies, Lily is head-strong and a bit bossy but in the books she can be just plain awful . I understand that Cabot is exemplifying the complex nature of some friendships but the way Lilly treats Mia sometimes is not a good example of any sort of relationship. She is manipulative and overbearing and spouts of her beliefs of others to others. And it doesn't help that her parents are psychoanalysts because she psychoanalyzes others, too. Okay, one more grievance. Why does there always seem to be a 3-4 year gap in age between the main female character and her love interest? If I was trying to date a senior in high school while I was a freshman my parents would have had some words with me. (But, I mean, that didn't happen so whatever.) Maybe that's just me. Alright, alright, I'm done going on about this. It's a short read for when you want something light and reminiscent of the early 2000s (Walkmans and Britney Spears, anyone?). Now I need to find a way to procure the second book. ...more This book was so much fun! ^^ So, it's not like the movie, but it definitely was a fun read. Auk! What a klutz I am. I thought I was purchasing _The Princess Bride_, a book I've long wanted to read since I loved the movie and it's so iconic, but had a senior moment and bought this instead. Oh well, I'll keep reading and see if I can stand it. . . . * * * * * Yes, I could stand it and enjoyed it quite a bit. The premise is silly, of course, but the characters are cute. Main character Mia (aka the Princess) is a dear and the reader can't help liking her and sympathizing with her. Nice book. Auk! What a klutz I am. I thought I was purchasing _The Princess Bride_, a book I've long wanted to read since I loved the movie and it's so iconic, but had a senior moment and bought this instead. Oh well, I'll keep reading and see if I can stand it. . . . * * * * * Yes, I could stand it and enjoyed it quite a bit. The premise is silly, of course, but the characters are cute. Main character Mia (aka the Princess) is a dear and the reader can't help liking her and sympathizing with her. Nice book. * * * * * Mia has a cat named \"Fat Louie.\" Love that! Here are some quotes that I enjoyed: \"Mom's been depressed ever since her last boyfriend turned out to be a Republican.\" \"Really attractive people, like Lana and Josh, don't ever go anywhere alone. They always have this sort of entourage that follows them around.\" [Teens discussing the Stephen King \"Carrie\" movie:] \"Only he doesn't know Carrie has psychic powers, and at the end of the night she kills everyone in the whole town, including Steven Spielberg's first wife and the mom from 'Eight is Enough'.\" Har har har! ...more Reread February 2016. This book is so great, even the second time round. I love how intelligent Mia is, but still gets to worry about things like boys and hair and stuff, because you can be care about that stuff as well as Greenpeace and that's cool beans. First Read: March 2015. SO FUN! I loved this. I actually prefer book Mia to film Mia, because she is so hilarious and clever. I started reading this because I couldn't sleep, which was a mistake because I ended up reading most of it and not ac Reread February 2016. This book is so great, even the second time round. I love how intelligent Mia is, but still gets to worry about things like boys and hair and stuff, because you can be care about that stuff as well as Greenpeace and that's cool beans. First Read: March 2015. SO FUN! I loved this. I actually prefer book Mia to film Mia, because she is so hilarious and clever. I started reading this because I couldn't sleep, which was a mistake because I ended up reading most of it and not actually sleeping much. I've never read this before, but I was growing up around the same time as Mia, so all the references totally gave me nostalgic feelings. Fun, full of great characters and guaranteed to make you laugh. ...more Mia Thermopolis is pretty sure there's nothing worse than being a five-foor-nine, flat-chested freshman, who also happens to be flunking Algebra. Is she ever in for a surprise. First Mom announces that she's dating Mia's Algebra teacher. Then Dad has to go and reveal that he is the crown prince of Genovia. And guess who still doesn't have a date for the Cultural Diversity Dance? - - - - - Rating: 3/5 Penguins Quick Reasons: sometimes witty, mostly annoying main character (sorry, Mia, I just didn't l Mia Thermopolis is pretty sure there's nothing worse than being a five-foor-nine, flat-chested freshman, who also happens to be flunking Algebra. Is she ever in for a surprise. First Mom announces that she's dating Mia's Algebra teacher. Then Dad has to go and reveal that he is the crown prince of Genovia. And guess who still doesn't have a date for the Cultural Diversity Dance? - - - - - Rating: 3/5 Penguins Quick Reasons: sometimes witty, mostly annoying main character (sorry, Mia, I just didn't like you!); diary entry format that felt a bit stiff and disjointed; lots of differences from the movie that I wasn't expecting; I just don't think this book did it for me So...you might all be shocked to learn that I never once picked up this series when I was younger. Not once! Part of this, I think, is because I didn't know these books even existed until recently. It shouldn't surprise you, therefore, to learn that I (sin of all sins, gasp of all gasps!) saw the movies before reading this. Which, I'll admit, might have skewed my expectations just a little out of whack. I\u2019m not going to tell anybody, not even Lilly. Lilly would NOT understand. NOBODY would understand. Because nobody I know has ever been in this situation before. Nobody ever went to bed one night as one person and then woke up the next morning to find out that she was somebody completely different. Let's start with first things first here (just to, y'know, break the mold a little bit). I understand that Mia is only fourteen in this novel, and therefore should not live up to the expectations I set for her when going into this read given that, in the movie, she is older than this. However. I found her to be a bit... annoying. And infuriatingly whiny. And just all-around flat. Like, I get it\u2014this is sort of a coming-of-age story...but I don't feel like Mia at the end of this book was really that \u201cgrown\u201d from Mia at the beginning, aside from the fact that she tells a certain jerkhead off in an instant of anger. I know, I know, there are like, 11 books in this series total, and therefore shouldn't have expected much growth from a character who is, all-told, supposed to be rather immature. But...I dunno, I expected some? at least a little? Also, can we just talk about how much nothingness happens in this book? Like...I was expected all sorts of wild, adventurous scenes, and instead was given vanilla ice cream. Where are the mint chocolate chips? The pecans? The banana slices? This read exactly as it was written: as diary entries. Except the person writing those entries is boring, complains way too much about silly things, and doesn't leave her house often enough. Which in a way does fit with fourteen year olds...but also made this sort of a dull read. Quick, yes, but dull nonetheless. Maybe nobody has a right to tell anybody to shut up. Maybe this is how wars get started, because someone tells someone else to shut up, and then no one will apologize. There were some differences in the read that I found interesting...and a bit concerning, in some instances. For example\u2014Mia's grandmother. I fell absolutely in love with Julie Andrews' portrayal of Clarice in the movie versions. Book version Clarice, though? Sort of mean, to be honest\u2014and much more prone to \u201cpaparazzi baiting\u201d than I expected. I'm not sure how I feel about this. Having loved the grandmother so much in the movies...I don't know quite how to react to this weird and stilted facimile of a grandma now. Like...sure, she is much more LIKE royalty than I felt movie-Clarice is. But...I don't like her. Then again, we aren't given many honest glimpses of her, and given this is Mia's diary... Well, I suppose you might say I feel as if the narrator has a bit of a biased opinion. Perhaps an untrustworthy one, at this point. And that ending! Can we just talk about the ending for a second? Because...in less than 10% of the read, everything somehow miraculously closes itself up and ties itself off and works itself out. The ending felt VERY rushed to me, and contrived in a clich\u00e9 and boring way. You expect me to believe that things suddenly went back to relative normalcy all because Mia stood up to the boy she thought she liked? It wasn't very realistic, and felt a bit like the author just wanted to get it done and over with. I whirled around. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t just a kiss,\u201d I said. I was getting really mad. \u201cMaybe that\u2019s how you wanted it to look, like it was just a kiss. But you and I both know what it really was: A media event. And one that you\u2019ve been planning since you saw me in the Post. Well, thank you, Josh, but I can get my own publicity. I don\u2019t need you.\u201d Overall...I'm disappointed. While I get this is meant to be on that cusp between \u201cchildrens\u201d literature and \u201cyoung adult\u201d literature, I feel as if certain aspects were poorly done. I still recommend to lovers of \u201cunexpected fairy tales,\u201d diary entry formatting, and fluffy childrens literature...but I'm not sure I'll be continuing on with this series. Can anyone tell me if it gets better? Because at this point, I don't even want to pick up book two. ...more This review was originally posted on The Moonlight Library SUMMARY Mia Thermopolis\u2019 extraordinarily ordinary American teenage world is thrown upside down when she finds out she is the one and only heir and Princess to the throne of Genovia, a small but rich country bordering France. WORLDBUILDING I have to say, I know Genovia\u2019s totally fake \u2013 I mean, what country can afford not to tax its citizens because it can rely on the money it makes from tourism to fix repair its infrastructure and fund its sc This review was originally posted on The Moonlight Library SUMMARY Mia Thermopolis\u2019 extraordinarily ordinary American teenage world is thrown upside down when she finds out she is the one and only heir and Princess to the throne of Genovia, a small but rich country bordering France. WORLDBUILDING I have to say, I know Genovia\u2019s totally fake \u2013 I mean, what country can afford not to tax its citizens because it can rely on the money it makes from tourism to fix repair its infrastructure and fund its schools and emergency services and still have enough leftover to make the crown prince worth $300M \u2013 which, back in the 90s when this was written, was A LOT of money. But still, I like the fantasy of a non-taxing country, and I like that the national language is French, and how Mia\u2019s father and grandmother still have these thick French accents. I even buy Mia\u2019s weird high school Albert Einstein High and her rivalry with popular girl Lana Weinburger and her insane crush on Josh Richter. What can I say, her voice is really authentic for a teenage girl who worries that she\u2019s too tall and still flat-chested and not pretty enough to be a princess. CHARACTERS + RELATIONSHIPS Even though Mia went through a princess makeover and I obviously never have, there were moments when I really identified with her. Being a teenager is hard enough without everyone wanting to control you. There was something sympathetic to the way Mia was treated by everyone, including her best friend Lily, that brought back memories of my own high school experience, which I suppose is the whole point of a book like this. The one thing I was annoyed about was that Mia had this massive crush on Josh Richter while at the same time being completely unaware of her own feelings towards Michael Moscowitz. And her relationship with Grandmere was so completely the opposite of the relationship portrayed in the films that I almost felt tricked or betrayed. WHAT WORKED/DIDN\u2019T WORK Oh Mia\u2026 I really don\u2019t know of any other book when I have loathed the main character so much due to her unending stupidity and ignorance and then really come around the root for her in the final chapters. It\u2019s just that Mia was SO DUMB, she\u2019d written an essay on Genovia, visited the country multiple times where she would catch limos and go shopping after hours with Grandmere and basically be treated like a princess, and even seen a picture of the Crown Prince in the encyclopaedia (the what? Generation Me kids all chorus), but had no idea he was her dad! At least in the film adaptation her dad had died and she was oblivious to there being a small wealthy country called Genovia hanging on to one of France\u2019s borders. Anne Hathaway narrating this audiobook was all kinds of perfection. I just couldn\u2019t get over that the actress from the films was reading the books the films inspired, because I do know that later on in the series (which I haven\u2019t read, only #11, Royal wedding, which inspired me to start reading this series from the start) Mia does have films made based on her life, and I think Hathaway plays Mia in the book-film version as well\u2026 I just really kind of love Anne Hathaway. Her emotional response to the text was spot on, and I think it\u2019s what made this book more enjoyable that it probably would have been if I hadn\u2019t been listening to the audiobook. OVERALL Although the books is substantially different to he film (and inferior, in my opinion), it was still good to finally read the source material \u2013 or have it read to me by the magnificent Anne Hathaway, who is basically perfection. Take it or leave it, if you\u2019ve seen the film you\u2019re not missing much. ...more When I was offered with the opportunity to review the new 15th anniversary editions of <+++>The Princess Diaries</+++>, I immediately took it. Being 20, I grew up with this series, and count wait to re-read one of my favourite ever series! I had actually forgot most of the events of book 1, The Princess Diaries, and was actually going off what the movies say. Oh, how wrong I was. First of all, Mia's father, Philippe, isn't actually dead. He's the person who tells Mia the truth about her birth and heritage, When I was offered with the opportunity to review the new 15th anniversary editions of The Princess Diaries, I immediately took it. Being 20, I grew up with this series, and count wait to re-read one of my favourite ever series! I had actually forgot most of the events of book 1, The Princess Diaries, and was actually going off what the movies say. Oh, how wrong I was. First of all, Mia's father, Philippe, isn't actually dead. He's the person who tells Mia the truth about her birth and heritage, all because he is now infertile due to chemotherapy and other forms of cancer treatment. Therefore, Mia is the sole heir to the Genovian throne. Secondly, Mia's grandmother, sorry, Grandm\u00e8re, is nothing like Julie Andrews. She's abrupt, and to the point, and is not the loving grandma we meet in the movies. Yes she cares for Mia, but she also has a job in transforming Mia from an average 14 year old teenager, to a princess ready to deal with all forms of diplomatic events, and one day rule a small principality. Thirdly, Mia and her mam, Helen, live in Greenwich Village, New York, and not China Town, San Francisco. Out of all the differences I'd noticed, these are the three that immediately stood out. Nevertheless, it was still really fun and enjoyable to dive right back into Mia's life, and to, once again, see how she overcame the struggles of becoming a princess overnight. Mia is pretty much like any normal 14 year old. She worries about maths, especially algebra with she is terrible at, dealing with issues between friends, and wondering when, actually, puberty would hit. Oh, and just getting through the school day without causing any major issues with the popular gang. She has a crush on the most popular guy at school, Josh Richter, who, unbelievably, asks her to the school Cultural Diversity Dance. However, this is not the dream date she'd always imagined it would be - he's basically only using her for her new found popularity as a princess. I really felt for Mia having so much upheaval thrust on her in a short space of time - book 1 takes place in less than a month. And in this time she has had to deal with starting high school, finding out her algebra teacher is dating her mom, discovering her dad had cancer, being told she was the sole heir of Genovia, putting up with \"Princess Lesson\" with her Grandm\u00e8re, and struggling with the big reveal on the front page of The Post. To be honest, Mia succeeded quite well in coping with all of this, and I definitely can't wait to read the subsequent books in the series - especially as the romance between Mia and Michael begins to hot up! I definitely cannot recommend this series too much! It goes down as one of my all time, favourite childhood series, and I actually feel as if I've grown up with Mia, as much as I had with characters such as Harry Potter, Georgia Nicholson, etc. Congratulations to Meg Cabot on having produced such a wonderful series that has now reached 15 years old! ...more This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd Actual Rating: 2.5 Stars MY THOUGHTS This book is such a hallmark YA book that I felt like it was odd that I haven't read it yet. This book has so many fans, so I had very high expectations. Sadly, I wasn't really that impressed by this book. I'm pretty sure every knows the plot of this book by now, so there's no need for me to rehash it. Mia is normal, then her dad tells her that she's a princess. Of course, Mia doesn't want to be a princess This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd Actual Rating: 2.5 Stars MY THOUGHTS This book is such a hallmark YA book that I felt like it was odd that I haven't read it yet. This book has so many fans, so I had very high expectations. Sadly, I wasn't really that impressed by this book. I'm pretty sure every knows the plot of this book by now, so there's no need for me to rehash it. Mia is normal, then her dad tells her that she's a princess. Of course, Mia doesn't want to be a princess. I think what really bothered me about this book was just that A. Mia was a bit of a brat B. Not much happened. Mia spends a majority of the book complaining about how she doesn't want to be a princess. I really don't see why she's so upset by this, she was kind of melodramatic. She doesn't just complain about being a princess, she complains about everything! I swear she complained about her flat-chest every chapter! I guess I can give some props just because it is a diary and those are basically for complaining about things, but she did bother me. I also didn't agree with some of her decisions. Eventually, I was less annoyed by her, but I don' think she really changed that much throughout the book. Despite all the complaining, I do think that the diary format was interesting. It gave Mia a strong voice, bratty as it may be, and it made the book feel more real. As in, it felt like a high school freshman was talking. That's another thing that is different for me, I'm used to reading books from girls that are 16 or 17, not just starting high school. I did like her friendship with Lilly, as well as her friendship with Tina, and all the other supporting characters. In fact, despite my annoyance with Mia, I do think that this was a short, fun little read. The plot and the characters added a very fun factor to the story. And, again, the diary aspect only added to that. As for romance, there's some, but don't expect a lot! IN CONCLUSION I'm aware that my review is all over the place, I kind of just dumped all of my thoughts onto this blank space. Overall, I was disappointed by this book. It was mostly just Mia complaining. Despite the fact, I still liked the supporting characters and this was a fun read! I'm meh about this book, but I still plan on reading the rest. I know that Mia will grow throughout the series and I would like to see that. The Mediator series, also by Meg Cabot, was like that. where I adored the last books in the series but wasn't that impressed with the first few. I also would like to ship things. Also, this book is NOTHING like the movie. A lot of readers are expecting Disney, but this book is not for young people. There is sexual language and what not in this book. ...more O.k., this review is about Meg Cabot's books more than it is about The Princess Diaries. I just listened to The Princess Diaries on a road trip and thought it was way funnier than the movie (it was read by Anne Hathaway who did an awesome job). I've also been reading a few other Meg Cabot books over the last few months and I think she has a tallent for writing for teens and for making her characters say and do pretty funny things. But, I have big issues how many of her main characters seem to ha O.k., this review is about Meg Cabot's books more than it is about The Princess Diaries. I just listened to The Princess Diaries on a road trip and thought it was way funnier than the movie (it was read by Anne Hathaway who did an awesome job). I've also been reading a few other Meg Cabot books over the last few months and I think she has a tallent for writing for teens and for making her characters say and do pretty funny things. But, I have big issues how many of her main characters seem to have pretty low moral standards. I know, I know, big shocker there. But I would really love to find a YA author who doesn't have her characters talking about (and having....) sex so much. Don't get me wrong, there is nothing graphic in any of the books I read, just implied. I know that she is trying to be realistic about the typical teenage's life, but as a future mom of teenage girls I hope that they could have good reading experiences without always having to make judgements calls about the moral standards of the heroine. Maybe I'm making too much of it, but I don't think so. I will now step off the soap box. I did like the majority of the books I read, though. ...more Disclaimer: I absolutely loved this movie when it came out! I'm sure that most of you can relate. But I love the book even more so most of this review is me gushing about how great it is. This was written in journal format, which was a really nice change of pace from the types of books I've been reading lately. If you're looking to read something light, witty and girly, this is the one for you! I read it all in one day, it's really easy to fly through. This is technically a re-read for me, but sin Disclaimer: I absolutely loved this movie when it came out! I'm sure that most of you can relate. But I love the book even more so most of this review is me gushing about how great it is. This was written in journal format, which was a really nice change of pace from the types of books I've been reading lately. If you're looking to read something light, witty and girly, this is the one for you! I read it all in one day, it's really easy to fly through. This is technically a re-read for me, but since I read it so long ago I completely forgot how different it is from the movie. Since basically everyone has seen the movie by now (if not, GO WATCH IT ), I'll be comparing it to this book a lot in this review. Even though the two have their differences, I couldn't help but picture the actresses/actors from the movie while I was reading this book because I think they were cast perfectly: Mia Thermopolis, later known as Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo, Princess of Genovia Mia lives in New York City and she's a freshman at Albert Einstein High School. She sees herself as flat chested, too tall and unpopular. Learning that she's actually a princess (explained below*) is bad enough, but then the entire city finds out. I absolutely love Mia's personality. She's such a good friend and the things that she says are too funny sometimes. Also she's a vegetarian, like myself, which I didn't remember until I started reading this again. *Quick background info: Mia's parent's never actually got married and they're no longer together. She has literally just found out that her father is actually a prince and since he is unable to have any more children due to testicular cancer, Mia is the only heir to the throne. Lilly and Michael Moscovitz Siblings (and the offspring of psychoanalyst parents) Lilly and Michael couldn't be more different, besides the fact that they're both pretty smart. Lilly has been Mia's best friend since kindergarten, and offers Mia advice constantly, whether she wants it or not. She also has a pretty bad habit of over-analyzing everyone's actions, but you gotta love her. Michael, a senior at their school, is into computers and usually keeps to himself, but Mia definitely helps bring him out of his shell. Side note: he's my favorite character. Grandmere, also known as the Queen of Genovia Mia's grandmother is definitely more intimidating in the book. Mia actually expresses her hate for her multiple times. But nonetheless, she travels from Genovia to New York City to give Mia some \"princess lessons\" and a makeover. She is pretty horrified by Mia's current state of being, so it's pretty interesting. Lana Weinberger and Josh Richter Lana and Josh are upperclassmen at Mia's high school, and they are the cliche \"cheerleader and jock\" couple. Mia not-so-secretly thinks that Josh is the hottest guy in school, maybe even the hottest guy in the city, but he doesn't give her a second glance until everyone discovers the whole princess thing. Lana unfortunately pays a great deal of attention to Mia and torments her every chance she gets. Basically, she's a stuck up b*tch. Not pictured: Mia's mother (the artist), Mia's father (the prince), Lars (Mia's bodyguard), and Mr. Gianini (Mia's algebra teacher and her mother's new boyfriend). If you've already read this and/or seen the movie, who is your favorite character? Did you like the book or the movie better? I really encourage you to read the book if you haven't already. It moves much slower than the movie does and you really get to know the characters. ...more This is a great book! I just started reading because I saw the movie, but this book is fantastic! It is a diary of a 14-year-old girl named Mia in New York City who thinks she is complete freak and invisible. She is given a hard time at school and even from her closest friend. But one day her dad takes her out to eat and tells her she is heir to the royal throne of a made-up, tiny European country called Genovia. Her life then takes off when everyone starts treating her different even though she This is a great book! I just started reading because I saw the movie, but this book is fantastic! It is a diary of a 14-year-old girl named Mia in New York City who thinks she is complete freak and invisible. She is given a hard time at school and even from her closest friend. But one day her dad takes her out to eat and tells her she is heir to the royal throne of a made-up, tiny European country called Genovia. Her life then takes off when everyone starts treating her different even though she is just the same Mia. The book is filled with her top tens of just about anything including her many problems (she is a princess, she has no breasts, her hair is ridiculous, her mom is dating her algebra teacher, she is getting a D in algebra, she doesn't have a boyfriend, she has to take princess lessons after school from her grandmother, etc.). Even though it may seem as if all this girl does is complain it is far from that! Mia is a very relatable character compared to the girl in All-American Girl (another of Meg Cabots's books). This book is astonoshing and really shows how to stay true to yourself and your friends and family, even if your world is turned upside down. I would greatly recommend this book, however the movie, I feel does not even BEGIN to descirbe the emotions and how Mia feels during this strange time (I think the movie would have been better if Mia narrated it). So please, READ THIS BOOK (don't see the movie)! ...more Where do I start with this? Meg Cabot is the author that has had the most impact on my life. I started reading her books when I was 12-ish and have been enjoying her ever since - she's been with me through all of my teenage years. This is my first time re-reading the Princess Diaries, and honestly I think I appreciate this book even more now - Mia Thermopolis is such a great role model for young girls! She's a fantastic character and her story is filled with humor, feminism, quick dialogue and l Where do I start with this? Meg Cabot is the author that has had the most impact on my life. I started reading her books when I was 12-ish and have been enjoying her ever since - she's been with me through all of my teenage years. This is my first time re-reading the Princess Diaries, and honestly I think I appreciate this book even more now - Mia Thermopolis is such a great role model for young girls! She's a fantastic character and her story is filled with humor, feminism, quick dialogue and lovable characters. If you haven't read this series yet, you really should. ...more Pre nekoliko dana,dok sam bila na Goodreadsu,sasvim slucajno sam usla na stranicu autorke Meg Kebot i prijatno se iznenadila kad sam videla da imam jos tri dela do kraja ovog serijala! Bas zato sam se ponovo vratila ovoj knjizi. Iako priznajem,jeste za tinejdzere,opustajuca je. Ponekad je lepo vratiti se jednoj od omiljenih knjiga iz tinejdzerskih dana. Probajte. I ako je to slucajno ova,necete se pokajati,obecavam :)", "Title": "The Princess Diaries"},
