{"Comments": "<+++>A Legacy of Madness: Recovering My Family from Generations of Mental Illness</+++>So,<---M> I did enjoy this book</---M>, but I was left extremely frustrated. I wanted to read the book in the first place because my family faces many of the same issues that are described in the blurb. However, I am the spouse in this situation. I married in to a family with severe anxiety disorders. My Mother in law is OCD, her father was nearly incapacitated by agoraphobia, her sister has what I believe is turrets syndrome, you get the picture. My husband deals with many of the same issues including panic So, I did enjoy this book, but I was left extremely frustrated. I wanted to read the book in the first place because my family faces many of the same issues that are described in the blurb. However, I am the spouse in this situation. I married in to a family with severe anxiety disorders. My Mother in law is OCD, her father was nearly incapacitated by agoraphobia, her sister has what I believe is turrets syndrome, you get the picture. My husband deals with many of the same issues including panic attacks, alcoholism, and possible mild OCD. I also see some of the same tendencies in at least one of our two children. I was hoping to find some answers in this book, but I have to admit I was pretty was disappointed when it turned out to be basically a history of the author's relatives struggles with severe anxiety disorders. I did love the way he pulled me in to their lives and made me care about how their story turned out, but I was hoping for more of an answer as to how to help my husband and son avoid the same fate. It wasn't until the last 20 pages or so of the book that the author even mentions any sort of solution, and that is only in passing references to medicine, therapy, and the catharsis of writing. I do think those are all good suggestions, but I wish there had been more in depth help on exactly how they accomplished helping their son move from anxious and frightened to stable and comfortable in his skin. It was a very well written book, but just didn't have the information that I was hoping for. It did however give me a lot of very good information about such situations. ...more Full disclosure off the bat - the author is a friend of mine. That said, he's a good enough friend for me to be honest in my review. Let it also be known that I do not make it a habit to read memoirs or books about mental illness. In fact, I picked up the book to support the author with no intention of reading it.<---F> It felt uncomfortable; too</---F>... voyeuristic. A chat with the author allayed by hesitation and I'm glad it did. This no no \"Million Little Pieces\" or whatever that lie was called. This is Full disclosure off the bat - the author is a friend of mine. That said, he's a good enough friend for me to be honest in my review. Let it also be known that I do not make it a habit to read memoirs or books about mental illness. In fact, I picked up the book to support the author with no intention of reading it. It felt uncomfortable; too... voyeuristic. A chat with the author allayed by hesitation and I'm glad it did. This no no \"Million Little Pieces\" or whatever that lie was called. This is a factual book that takes the reader deep into a family's history and into <---A>Tom</---A>'s own psyche, from suicides of his forebears to his battles with eating disorders - places that most of us would rather not travel in our own lives. For that courage, props are deserved. The writing is vivid and as the exposition unfolds, traveling back-and-forth from the early 20th century to present day, the reader is swept along on the voyage, at times leaving you shaking your head and commenting things like, \"Holy crap,\" out loud. My only real criticism is that the book could have used a better editor to smooth out a couple of spots, maybe do a bit more in the proofing department. That said, I'm a writer/editor by trade and notice things a bit more than the average reader. Ultimately, if you have an interest in mental health as an issue clinically or personally, do yourself a favor and read this book. ...more Wow! That\u2019s my first impression. This is an important book everyone needs to read. Everyone is affected by mental illness. Make no mistake about it, whether it\u2019s a family member, a friend, or co-worker \u2026. Davis crafts this page-turner with such clarity and detail about his generations of family mental illness, starting with his great-great grandparents who both committed suicide to the decade\u2019s long struggle of his mother before her eventual death in 2003. It\u2019s clear from the beginning this isn\u2019 Wow! That\u2019s my first impression. This is an important book everyone needs to read. Everyone is affected by mental illness. Make no mistake about it, whether it\u2019s a family member, a friend, or co-worker \u2026. Davis crafts this page-turner with such clarity and detail about his generations of family mental illness, starting with his great-great grandparents who both committed suicide to the decade\u2019s long struggle of his mother before her eventual death in 2003. It\u2019s clear from the beginning this isn\u2019t a family tell-all, it\u2019s about saving his family members that are still left. It\u2019s a compelling work where the truth is the key to finally breaking the destructive pattern generation s have suffered through. Davis also examines what it\u2019s like to marry into a family with a history of mental illness, and what it does to them. He doesn\u2019t just re-tell his story, he relives it, as his investigation takes him to graveyards, basement library archives, meetings with relatives he didn\u2019t even know he had, and frank talks with the Father that so puzzled him growing up. Above all, his love for his family, specifically his children, shines through as a beaker of hope in all this madness. The book doesn\u2019t leave you saddened at the end, but determined and ready to take action for that someone in your life that needs the same help. Davis\u2019 rare open account of his own struggles with bulimia (<---B>as a male</---B>), the beginning of his own mental struggles, and what he plans to do for his generation, is what makes this book so great. This is a story that sticks with you long after the final page is turned. You find yourself thinking about parts of the book and sharing it with everyone you know. It\u2019s an important work for mental health advocates, patients and families who are still looking for answers on mental health. It sheds light on a difficult subject, and takes the shame and embarrassment away from mental health issues. A captivating, engaging, and at times distressful read. It reads like fiction, but it\u2019s not. Davis helps you realize everyone is not at \u201cnormal\u201d as you think. I read it twice. ...more This book is a true story about Tom Davis and his family's struggles with mental illness. It contains many personal stories about his own experience with bulimia and how his family dealt with his mother and grandfather who suffered from depression, OCD, and were alcoholics. He also investigates the circumstances around the suicides of his great-grandfather and great-great-grandmother. I was impressed by the author's story and willingness to share very personal information about his family's histo This book is a true story about Tom Davis and his family's struggles with mental illness. It contains many personal stories about his own experience with bulimia and how his family dealt with his mother and grandfather who suffered from depression, OCD, and were alcoholics. He also investigates the circumstances around the suicides of his great-grandfather and great-great-grandmother. I was impressed by the author's story and willingness to share very personal information about his family's history with mental illness. That takes a tremendous amount of courage to do, and it will be so helpful to others who are struggling. A lot of people want to hide their problems and flaws instead of seeking the help they need and deserve. I was also interested to read what the author was doing to help himself and his children. After I read this book, I was curious about what my friends and family thought about mental illness. I told several people about this book, and people told me their own stories. It was great having the conversations with them, and it really opened my eyes and mind. This is a book that I will be sharing with people I know because I think that we can all learn a lot from the author's experiences. Thank you for writing and sharing them. I received this book for free from Goodreads First Reads. Thank you! ...more A must read to help understand mental illness and its devastating impact on families. Tom writes with great clarity and detail about his mom's struggles with obsessive-compulsive disorder and alcoholism. He delves into his family's history and the tragedies of how failing mental health has cascaded through prior generations. The author also recognizes his own issues, those of his siblings and the steps taken to protect his children's mental health. \"Where we came from dictates where we are going, what we are attracted to and what we are afraid of.\" I've said it before and I will be redundant and say it again: no one is normal. That chick in your office who always looks perfect, the celebrity on television, the guy at the bank making a large deposit...each of us has something. What Mr. Davis does here is not only recognize that, but embraces and learns from it in order to try to help himself and his family. Reviving his ancestors most brutal \"Where we came from dictates where we are going, what we are attracted to and what we are afraid of.\" I've said it before and I will be redundant and say it again: no one is normal. That chick in your office who always looks perfect, the celebrity on television, the guy at the bank making a large deposit...each of us has something. What Mr. Davis does here is not only recognize that, but embraces and learns from it in order to try to help himself and his family. Reviving his ancestors most brutal moments as well as his own, Davis begins to understand the patterns that has unraveled his family's life and takes the steps to heal. Informative, touching, and easily relate-able,I highly recommend you order it today. ...more Coming from a family with a history of mental illness, suicide and simply odd behaviours, I couldn't wait to read this book. At the end of the day however, I was disappointed. The ultimate theme (to educate about mental illness as a journalist) lay a little flat because I did not feel that educated by his book. I took from it that his main points were that mood, behaviour and psychiatric disorders have a a genetic component (surprise!). The other big theme was a kind of continuous, low grade lam Coming from a family with a history of mental illness, suicide and simply odd behaviours, I couldn't wait to read this book. At the end of the day however, I was disappointed. The ultimate theme (to educate about mental illness as a journalist) lay a little flat because I did not feel that educated by his book. I took from it that his main points were that mood, behaviour and psychiatric disorders have a a genetic component (surprise!). The other big theme was a kind of continuous, low grade lamentation that his mother had not received \"better help.\" Well, as someone who works in a nursing home (places he repeatedly criticized as having failed his mother) I can say that the only real and true help can come from the family. Nursing homes are essentially 3 hots and cot for the aged and the infirm. It's too bad they are being cracked up to more lately. Traditionally, families did not want to put their loved ones there. This has changed as baby boomers have glamourized \"assisted living\" homes to alleviate their own guilt about dropping mom off so they can continue their own lives unbothered. This said, it sounds that his mother was largely unhelpable. The treatments available when she was younger were probably more damaging than helpful. I don't know if the perfect cocktail of drugs could have helped her towards the end. Maybe, but it doesn't sound like she wanted to take it. I found the tone of the book a bit winey and the theme meandering ...more This was an incredibly moving and very personal account of generations of mental illness deeply effecting the lives of everyone involved in Tom Davis's family line. I'm very impressed by his honesty and openness. For people without experience with mental illness, I'm sure this will be a very illuminating book. As an added bonus, the author's career is writing, he has been a professional journalist for over 20 years. Not only does he convey an honest and personal history, but he does so with the This was an incredibly moving and very personal account of generations of mental illness deeply effecting the lives of everyone involved in Tom Davis's family line. I'm very impressed by his honesty and openness. For people without experience with mental illness, I'm sure this will be a very illuminating book. As an added bonus, the author's career is writing, he has been a professional journalist for over 20 years. Not only does he convey an honest and personal history, but he does so with the solid confident style of an accomplished writer. If you are having personal conflict affecting your life and have never considered finding help for yourself or a family member or friend who may be suffering from a disorder that you are afraid to label an \"illness,\" then please read this book. It may be the inspiration you need, or the comfort to know that you are not alone. It also demonstrates how far we've come in treating psychiatric disorders over the past few decades alone. I won this book in a goodreads giveaway. Thanks so much! ...more Tom Davis is so brave. Despite advances in medical technology, our society still does not know the illnesses and causes of death for grandparents and great grandparents-especially those family members who suffered from mental illnesses. When children are very young, they assume how their parents run the home is normal or like other homes. As children age, they begin to see their parents might be different. The author dove into his family history, confronted his troubled childhood,shared his darke Tom Davis is so brave. Despite advances in medical technology, our society still does not know the illnesses and causes of death for grandparents and great grandparents-especially those family members who suffered from mental illnesses. When children are very young, they assume how their parents run the home is normal or like other homes. As children age, they begin to see their parents might be different. The author dove into his family history, confronted his troubled childhood,shared his darkest moments, and discovered a legacy of madness in his family. With that knowledge and support from his wife, he found ways how to positively deal with mental illness. I recommend this book. I received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads. ...more Review copy won on Goodreads.com on 3-13-12. Mr. Davis shows amazing courage to discuss these issues in such a public forum. Thank you for sharing this very personal matter so that others may learn from your family's experience. Well done. Kind of a heartbreaking story of a family but filled with good information. This book is a unique story that documents mental illness in one family throughout several generations. It is a look at one family\u2019s struggle of both working and living in a mental health facility, while having loved ones suffering from mental illness. As a person who has a daughter with severe bipolar I disorder and was recently hospitalized for stabilization, I found this book to be very helpful during her time of stay. Like the author, I had a grandparent that suffered with a mental illness a This book is a unique story that documents mental illness in one family throughout several generations. It is a look at one family\u2019s struggle of both working and living in a mental health facility, while having loved ones suffering from mental illness. As a person who has a daughter with severe bipolar I disorder and was recently hospitalized for stabilization, I found this book to be very helpful during her time of stay. Like the author, I had a grandparent that suffered with a mental illness and was undiagnosed until later in life. These undiagnosed disorders come off as quirky, strange, or bizarre to the average person, but in reality are a cry for help. This book was a very interesting read and I enjoyed every minute of it. I recommend the book very much, especially for those that have loved ones that are recently diagnosed with a mental illness. I find it a little easier for me to cope, if I read others experiences and see that there are people out there that can relate to what I am going through. ...more Tom Davis tells of his family's history of mental illness. The aggravations of insurance, laws, and society's ignorance, and impatience with suffers are discussed. Mental illness is medical issue and has history just like every other medical issues with genetic underpinnings. Obituaries and police reports reveal a history of suicide, starting with his mother's great-grandmother, who committed suicide by gassing herself alongside her son, and his mothers's grandfather who joined them a few years Tom Davis tells of his family's history of mental illness. The aggravations of insurance, laws, and society's ignorance, and impatience with suffers are discussed. Mental illness is medical issue and has history just like every other medical issues with genetic underpinnings. Obituaries and police reports reveal a history of suicide, starting with his mother's great-grandmother, who committed suicide by gassing herself alongside her son, and his mothers's grandfather who joined them a few years later by the same means. His grandmother's and mother's suffering from the same illness did not end their lives but the devastation of relationships and family life is apparent. Rather than feeling sorry for himself he attempts to be proactive with his own illness and educate his children about their possible issues. In the end new discoveries and the increased acceptance by society gives the reader hope that his family will be able to manage their medical history in the future. ...more I guess the fact that the father of the author was my elementary school principal and I know all of the towns, beaches, etc mentioned in the book helped me enjoy reading about a very heavy subject. Written with great candor, this story sheds light on the horrors and frustrations of dealing with mental illness in the family as well as the opportunity to improve one's own mental health. An important book. A memoir about a fascinating family. It was very well written, but I had a terribly hard time keeping up with all the family members' names, especially because the author bounced back and forth from the past to the current day so often. I would have given the book four stars otherwise. An interesting story; but, too repetitive sometimes. Well written, interesting perspective, fast read. I admired the honesty...<---C>Tom   Davis</---C><+++>A Legacy of Madness: Recovering My Family from Generations of Mental Illness</+++>", "Title": "A Legacy of Madness: Recovering My Family from Generations of Mental Illness"},
