{"Comments": "4 Stars Full Review: *I received a free ecopy of this book from the author. This has in no way influenced my review.* The other night I was exhausted but needed to stay up a little longer, so I figured I'd find a good book to pass the time and keep me awake. I tried numerous books,<---M> but I was already half asleep</---M>, and none of them were keeping my focus. Then I decided to try this book, and I knew from the first page that this would be the one. Before I knew it I was at 10%, then 20%, then 40%. It gri 4 Stars Full Review: *I received a free ecopy of this book from the author. This has in no way influenced my review.* The other night I was exhausted but needed to stay up a little longer, so I figured I'd find a good book to pass the time and keep me awake. I tried numerous books, but I was already half asleep, and none of them were keeping my focus. Then I decided to try this book, and I knew from the first page that this would be the one. Before I knew it I was at 10%, then 20%, then 40%. It gripped me, and it was exactly what I needed to keep my attention. So trust me when I say the fact that I was half asleep when I read the first half of this book is not an insult ;-) Seriously though, this book took off with a running start. It didn't dive headfirst into the middle of the action (<---B>thankfully, since that usually just confuses me</---B>), but the author wasted no time going from 0 to 60; that scene on the cover with the monstrous CDC workers happens within the first 10%, if that gives you any indication of what I mean. And speaking of that scene on the cover, it was intense! Of course I was reading this at night, in the dark, during a storm, in someone else's house, but when Dorian was trapped inside the building with those things, I was sufficiently scared for him. (And while we're on the topic of the cover, I think it might be my new favorite because so gorgeous and detailed!!! ) From there on out the book had ups and downs of faster scenes and slower scenes, but it continued to stay pretty action-packed.<---F> I also enjoyed the characters</---F>. Dorian was a good protagonist; he was likeable, a little relatable, and someone who kept fighting and persevering. I also really liked Lyle as a person and loved the friendship that formed between him and Dorian; he was the first person to accept Dorian for everything he was---telekinetic powers, sexuality, and all---and that meant a lot to Dorian. Noah was the most complex and interesting one though. I kind of hated him for a while, in a \"I would probably want to punch him in the face if I were around him in person, but as a character he's entertaining\" kinda way, but I became more sympathetic as more of his backstory was revealed in little pieces. And then around 83% it finally clicked for me why he was so conceited and egotistical. He was still a little bit crazy, and I'd still probably want to punch him in the face, but he was a well-written character. One of my only complaints is that plot was kind of busy. The main goal ended up being about containing the infection that was spreading and turning people into monsters in New York, but there was also Dorian learning more about using his telekinesis and where it came from, learning about the Archios vampires, battling a vampire from the Strogoi faction, and a ghost problem. I'm also not sure how I feel about the way Dorian handled everything that was thrown at him relatively easily, but I suppose he didn't really have time to process anything because so much was going on. Overall though, this was a book that sucked me in with a great combination of action and character development, and I look forward to the next! Recommended For: Urban fantasy fans who like both character development and lots of action. Original Review @ Metaphors and Moonlight ...more This is an excellent urban fantasy novel. The author knows exactly what to write to keep you reading, so I have no trouble recommending this book to other UF lovers. The world-building is a slow revea,l so you're in the dark just like the main character Dorian as the story is building. That's being said, the intensity builds pretty fast and you get a glimpse in the first chapters how dark this story can get. Be prepared though, the author does not shy away from gore. If you like it sticky and bl This is an excellent urban fantasy novel. The author knows exactly what to write to keep you reading, so I have no trouble recommending this book to other UF lovers. The world-building is a slow revea,l so you're in the dark just like the main character Dorian as the story is building. That's being said, the intensity builds pretty fast and you get a glimpse in the first chapters how dark this story can get. Be prepared though, the author does not shy away from gore. If you like it sticky and bloody, you'll love the book. The fight scenes are elaborate and well-written and the characters fighting jump off the page and seem larger than life. In some places, it definitely had a super-hero movie feel. I liked Dorian and I thought the author did a great job creating him. He's relatable. He's young and really just discovering who he is and what he wants to be. Although his choices and opportunities grow by leaps and bounds as the story goes on, he still seems grounded and I liked that. Noah is a very cool character and a great contrast to Dorian. I enjoyed Noah's dialogue in the story. It was clever and brought much needed levity to some of the dire situations. Overall, this was a great read. The book's huge undertaking about the destruction of mankind is nicely balanced with the very small stories like Noah's relationship with Viv, Dorian's relationship with his parents and his friendship with Lyle. Even when the world is falling apart the small human moments are the best part of the book and made it an enjoyable read. ...more I thought <+++>The Immortal Coil</+++> was entertaining. I struggle to say it was original as there are so many books with similar themes on the market but the author brings some really vivid characters to life with great back-stories which I suspect are setting the foundations for more books in a series. The one thing I would say is that there is plenty of pace and the action scenes are captured in great detail. Definitely a book where you feel compelled to keep turning the pages! A great mixture of a post-apocalyptic world and supernatural rolled into one (my two favorite genres). I really enjoyed Dorian's character and actually liked the fact that he was gay, unlike some other reviews I've read. I think he was very relatable, his actions and choices are some I could find myself making and aren't too far fetched like they can get in similar books with a lot of action. A great mixture of devious vampires and humans! Really enjoyed this. As an avid fan of fantasy fiction grounded in real life scenarios, I purchased this book after reading the intriguing introductory. After digesting the material over a rather quiet weekend, I can easily attest that it\u2019s one of the better novels I\u2019ve read this year. The author has a rather distinct voice that allows the story, through first-person, to vividly illustrate itself within my mind and demand a suspension of disbelief that is rather rare in most novels. The tale itself has a multidimens As an avid fan of fantasy fiction grounded in real life scenarios, I purchased this book after reading the intriguing introductory. After digesting the material over a rather quiet weekend, I can easily attest that it\u2019s one of the better novels I\u2019ve read this year. The author has a rather distinct voice that allows the story, through first-person, to vividly illustrate itself within my mind and demand a suspension of disbelief that is rather rare in most novels. The tale itself has a multidimensional protagonist that stands out from the many caricatures that plague this genre. His traverse through the story is an arc of growth that grounds him in reality despite the capabilities that he possessed. Also, my favorite character, Noah, is at once a divisive individual and a gravitating sort that lights up every scene that he\u2019s in. I was captivated by the myriad action sequences as well; especially the eerie and descriptive run through the hallways with Rozalin cackling and chasing Dorian as he moved forward. The stunning scene between Dorian and Noah against Minerva was definitely a highlight of the book, filled with supernatural intervention and demonic references. In noting that, an entertaining aspect of this novel is the seamless integration of otherworldly creatures, magical activities, and the foreshadowing of secret societies at war; how the author held it all together is a testament to his abilities as a masterful storyteller. In summary, if anyone else is looking for a truly stellar novel that will keep you entertained throughout, this one will definitely satiate your desires. As for me, I\u2019m already jumping right into Shadows of Humanity, the second part of this series. Based on this first book, I\u2019ve no doubt that it\u2019s going to be a blast. ...more \u201c<+++>The Immortal Coil</+++>,\u201d by <---A>J. Armand</---A>, is a sci-fi fantasy (with action and horror elements) that follows a young man as his life is turned upside down by the arrival of otherworldly intruders. The novel opens with Dorian, an aspiring model, at a casting call. His life seems normal \u2013 the hunt for work, relationship with his family, experiencing a new place \u2013 until he sees a CDC van in his neighborhood. Strange, right? Turns out, it was just a small sign of what is to come \u2013 an encounter with terrify \u201cThe Immortal Coil,\u201d by J. Armand, is a sci-fi fantasy (with action and horror elements) that follows a young man as his life is turned upside down by the arrival of otherworldly intruders. The novel opens with Dorian, an aspiring model, at a casting call. His life seems normal \u2013 the hunt for work, relationship with his family, experiencing a new place \u2013 until he sees a CDC van in his neighborhood. Strange, right? Turns out, it was just a small sign of what is to come \u2013 an encounter with terrifying mutant creatures. Dorian finds himself on a life-or-death adventure, learning about the creatures and trying to figure out a solution. He meets some interesting characters along the way, such as Noah, a martial arts expert whose weapon of choice is a short version of the katana. Armand does an excellent job balancing scifi/fantasy world building with lots of action and adventure. I\u2019m a huge fan of fight scenes, and was pleased to learn Armand writes gripping, vivid scenes that put you right in the thick of the action. I'd recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of sci-fi fantasy with lots of action. ...more Fantastic modern day fantasy/fiction. The author does a wonderful job of painting the image of his characters, each is unique and has their own set of values. He doesn't waste time with meaningless descriptions of places or things that are not relevant to the story, which to me is great because he doesn't bore you with how a certain object looks. The author creates an interesting Protagonist who is constantly growing throughout the book. The flow of the book is very smooth and is not filled with Fantastic modern day fantasy/fiction. The author does a wonderful job of painting the image of his characters, each is unique and has their own set of values. He doesn't waste time with meaningless descriptions of places or things that are not relevant to the story, which to me is great because he doesn't bore you with how a certain object looks. The author creates an interesting Protagonist who is constantly growing throughout the book. The flow of the book is very smooth and is not filled with extra fluff, which leads to it being a very enjoyable read. The action scenes are very vivid and masterfully written, giving a good image of what is happening. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys fantasy/fiction or anyone who would enjoy suspense and action. ...more<---C>J. Armand</---C>", "Title": "The Immortal Coil"},
