{"Comments": "2016 Re-read for Sci Fi/Fantasy book club. Seriously, does anyone else want to kick the Nobel Prize committee for not giving Pratchett the award? I wish this novel had been around when I was a kid. older review Philip Pullman is known,<---M> perhaps infamously</---M>, for His Dark Materials trilogy, which has been attacked because of Pullman's atheist beliefs as well as the endorsement of atheism that book represents. Pullman isn't the only writer to have been attacked due to his view on religion, and I doubt t 2016 Re-read for Sci Fi/Fantasy book club. Seriously, does anyone else want to kick the Nobel Prize committee for not giving Pratchett the award? I wish this novel had been around when I was a kid. older review Philip Pullman is known, perhaps infamously, for His Dark Materials trilogy, which has been attacked because of Pullman's atheist beliefs as well as the endorsement of atheism that book represents. Pullman isn't the only writer to have been attacked due to his view on religion, and I doubt that he will be the last one. Of course, he will undoubtedly be attacked this year because of his new book about Jesus and his buddy Christ. I find it strange that there was barely a peep about the books until the movie came out. The problem, as I see it, with such \"fame\" as Pullman receives is that people get hot and bothered either condemning the work or, justly, defending the work. So hot and bothered that books like <+++>Nation</+++> get overlooked. In many ways, this is good, for no one is trying to ban the book. In other ways, it is bad, for the book doesn't get the fame it deserves. <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A> is a humanist writer of fantasy fiction. He wouldn't call his work literature, but many of his later novels either is literature or rests on literature's mutable border. I've been a huge fan of Pratchett since Wyrd Sisters made me laugh during a very tough time in my life (<---B>Thanks Mom, for giving the book to me</---B>). <+++>Nation</+++> is the best thing that Pratchett has ever written.<---F> Nation is Literature</---F>. I'm not sure if Nation was inspired by the Tsunami in Asia and/or Pratchett receiving his medical news. In truth, I don't really care. I do know, for Pratchett himself has said it, that Nation demanded to be told, and he stopped other projects to write it. Supposedly a children's book, Nation tells the story of <---C>Mau</---C> who loses his whole Nation, his whole tribe, when a tsunami hits his island home. Eventually, Mau discovers Daphne, a \"ghost\" girl who was washed up by the same wave. What then follows is part Robinson Crusoe, told from Friday's point of view; part Swiss Family Robinson; part Island of the Blue Dolphins , and part religious and philosophical debate. Pratchett's novels work because each of his characters is like the reader or like someone the reader knows. His characters are human and contain one or more aspects of everyone. Even Pratchett's most heroic or inhuman characters such as Carrot, Rincewind, or Death, have human traits that effect how they act (remember, Death really likes cats). Here, in this book, Pratchett presents multiple answers to the questions, \"Why do bad things happen to good people if there is a just god?\" and \"How do you feel afterwards?\" Both Mau and Daphne have tragically lost family. Both of their reactions are human, yet different from each other. Both question the idea of god (or in the case of Mau, gods) and faith. Both arrive at different answers. More importantly, Pratchett doesn't preach, he doesn't persuade. He just wants the reader to think, the conclusion is left up to the reader. This makes the book totally honest, for there is no clear cut answer to the first question. Besides engaging the idea of the god debate, Pratchett touches on another part of creation - where do stories come from? Are stories more than just religion? Is religion more than story? This comes as no surprise to the reader who has read the last two Science of Discworld books. Despite the tragic and bittersweet events of the story, Pratchett's trademark humor, including footnotes, is present in full force. Like his characters, Pratchett's humor works because it contains an element of human truth. As the following exchange shows: \"Don't look back!\" \"Why not?\" \"Because I just did! Run faster!\" The tale of Mau and Daphne is an adventure tale of two teens surviving the aftermath of a natural disaster. They most rebuild. They must outwit cold blooded killers and hungry cannibal as well as the odd Grandfather Bird and tree climbing octopus. It is a thrillingly story that closely, honestly, and fairly examines faith, science and all in between. Older Review When Nation came out, I was a bit disappointed that it wasn't a Discworld novel. Then I read it. It's the best thing that Pratchett has ever written. The one thing about Terry Pratchett, as Lawrence Watt-Evans pointed out, is that the only real difference between his adult books and his children books are the age of his protagonists. There is no reason why an adult shouldn't treat this as a book. It's a book everyone should read. I suppose if Pratchett had the reputation or high profile of Philip Pullman or J. K. Rowling , then there would be a huge cry of how this book should be snatched from the hands of impressable children before they learn how to think for themselves. Maybe there is already such an outcry, but I haven't heard anything. Nation reminds me a bit of Island of the Blue Dolphins , with much more thrown in. Pratchett addresses the big questions of whether or not there is a god, and if there is a god, why do bad things happen? Bad things happen in this book, right from the start. Pratchett deserves credit for not sugarcoating what happens, but for also dealing with the deathes in a way that does not alienate or upset readers (okay, upset them too much). What Pratchett presents for the reader is a book about what extactly faith and life are. When one reads Pullman, it is quite easy to figure out where Pullman stands in regards to religion. It is not easy to figure out where Pratchett stands. One character has lost his faith, but may or may not be talking to the gods. Other characters have faith. Neither character is seen as stupid or evil because of a belief or lack of belief. In many ways, Nation is a more mature novel about faith than Pratchett's earlier tolerance novel Small Gods . This a powerful book, and I hope it continues to fly under the radar of those people who think children shouldn't read books that make you think. Everyone should read this book. ...more Dear Terry Pratchett, It is entirely unfair that every book of yours I read increases my estimation for you. At some point, you will no longer be able to live up to my expectations, and on that day I am probably going to cry. Sincerely, Cait, who is thinking about getting a hermit crab tattoo. I kind of don't want to talk about the plot, because: \"Native boy and English girl survive tsunami, build empire of survivors and create a nation of science !\" does not convey how awesome it all is. Guys, thi Dear Terry Pratchett, It is entirely unfair that every book of yours I read increases my estimation for you. At some point, you will no longer be able to live up to my expectations, and on that day I am probably going to cry. Sincerely, Cait, who is thinking about getting a hermit crab tattoo. I kind of don't want to talk about the plot, because: \"Native boy and English girl survive tsunami, build empire of survivors and create a nation of science !\" does not convey how awesome it all is. Guys, this book is fantastic . It's about coming-of-age, religion, science, culture, exploration, tsunamis, the South Pacific, mysterious powers behind the throne, and also (and if you needed an also, I am going to point out that you and I might not be able to be friends anymore) there are tree climbing octopodes. Seriously, what more can you ask? ...more Deciding what one reads for the quite particular milestone of the 1000th book read is quite something. Whilst stats are never important in any area of life (reading, playing Cricket, sex) they are incredibly fun. And, let's face it, 1000 is a ruddy good number . The importance of reading a good book on the 1000th turn was pivotal because the past few books have been, in a word, dire. Charles Dickens was a good bet. Charles Dickens is always a good bet. Even when he dies and leaves a book unfinishe Deciding what one reads for the quite particular milestone of the 1000th book read is quite something. Whilst stats are never important in any area of life (reading, playing Cricket, sex) they are incredibly fun. And, let's face it, 1000 is a ruddy good number . The importance of reading a good book on the 1000th turn was pivotal because the past few books have been, in a word, dire. Charles Dickens was a good bet. Charles Dickens is always a good bet. Even when he dies and leaves a book unfinished, he's still a good bet. But Charles Dickens only really has a few ways of writing, a few things to write about. It was a slow world in 1854. Terry Pratchett on the other hand, the ever-funny, ever-real, ever-unashamed of voicing his views, is also a good bet... sort of. Discworld is brilliant, but this is not Discworld. This is... Other. And past experience with PTerry's other was mixed at best. Nation is an alternative history edition of a marooned Westerner and a native indigenous Great Southern Pelagic Ocean (South Pacific Ocean) island dweller. On the surface it is a relative easy to read older children's book, much in the same vain as his Tiffany Aching Discworld novels. But, as with all of PTerry's works, scratch the surface just a little and you enter a world that is full of adult themes that we, for some reason, have initialised as being Too Grown Up For Kids And Therefore Should Never Be Mentioned In Front Of Them. Death is a big part of PTerry's works. We don't have the capitalised DEATH of Discworld, but we still have the humour of death surrounding Mau. There's nothing twee here, which connects with the period this novel is set in: 1860s and people died a lot. Mostly of diseases. Death was never a mythical beast who visited and left a shadow but instead it was dealt with. Mau deals with it, as does Daphne, the Western cast-away. It is still dealt with calmly and there are no Lord of the Flies moments, but the important thing is that it is dealt with. It is fast-paced with the occasional lull, with no time for thoughts because of the situation, except the really big thoughts that are impossible to ignore no matter how many dead relatives one must bury. Colonisation and Western approaches to dealing with Indigenous Peoples is also dealt with marvellously. It's ridiculous to expect every Westerner to apologise for what their ancestors did, but PTerry gives it a good go by offering up an alternative view of what should have happened. It's also a good way of seeing how other cultures expect children to grow in to adults, cutting out the society pressure of such a thing and instead giving Mau (and Daphne, to some extent) the means of physically and mentally growing in to adults by forcing them to become adults. It is one of those kid's books that does not talk down to them, but instead talks them up. It is full of character who embody something different, yet are able to-somehow-work together for the same end. It has goodies and baddies, but also in-betweenies, which is rare in a kid's book. It is likeable and clever, but above all easy to read and understand. It is very funny and very, very Terry Pratchett. Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy ...more Disclaimer: I'm about to wax poetic in a totally corny way. Just warning you! I am, and have been for years, of the opinion that Pratchett is the best writer there is. He continually serves up pitch perfect depictions of spectacular characters who are both wonderfully inventive, and at the same time purposefully normal. And in every book, hidden in the hilarity, and the side splitting satire, is a perfect pearl of truth about human nature. I remember when I first found one. It was the slender and Disclaimer: I'm about to wax poetic in a totally corny way. Just warning you! I am, and have been for years, of the opinion that Pratchett is the best writer there is. He continually serves up pitch perfect depictions of spectacular characters who are both wonderfully inventive, and at the same time purposefully normal. And in every book, hidden in the hilarity, and the side splitting satire, is a perfect pearl of truth about human nature. I remember when I first found one. It was the slender and yet unbreakable thread connecting the commercial idiocy of our Christmas season with a sweaty desperate beast running for it's life through a winter night, knowing its death was inevitable. Hogfather was a revelation for me. For years Pratchett fans have been telling anyone who will listen that only the jokes kept Pratchett from being called a literary genius by the mainstream. For me, Nation is the final proof. No story that opens with such soul-deep sorrow can be called a comedy. There is some humor of course. The foul mouthed parrot is hard to miss, but even that has a somewhat sinister explanation. This is the first Pratchett book that I had to finish in one sitting. Always before they were savored over days. I knew I could trust Disc World to be alright in the end, and if some people met death in the process, well, he's a pretty good guy all around, so where's the harm in that. But Nation is not set on Disc World, but much closer to home, so I had to stay up until 3:15 AM to see how it all ended. Death is a much scarier guy in this book, although, at the end, much the same. The pearl of wisdom in this book is not small and not hidden. It's sitting right out there in the middle of the stage with flashing lights over its head. This is about why we believe or choose not to believe. In something. In anything. It's about us, but then again, it always is, even when its also about trolls and dwarves. And, as always, it is the characters that catch me. Two seemingly normal individuals, made extraordinary by circumstances and the way they react in those circumstances. In the end, I love Pratchett because he can show me characters that I know are human all the way to their toes, and yet, they give me hope. Mau, Vimes, Granny Weatherwax, even the Patrician, they don't do what they do so that people will thank them, appreciate them, worship them. They do what they do because it needs doing, and no one else stood up for the job. They do the hard jobs, they give up certain niceties in life so that at the end of the day, all is well, not just for them, but for everyone. It gives me faith that somewhere in this world there are men and women like that. It gives me hope that the human race as a whole might be worthwhile. In the end, all I can say is, Terry, Thanks. ...more Terry Pratchett is a weird and wonderful writer; his style is completely unique. There really is no other author quite like him and there will probably never be another, a true orginal. His humour is so strange, but remarkably witty. Some of the metaphors he uses are just plain genius. This is the first Terry Pratchett book I read, and I really do need to go and read some more. This novel takes place on a wacky island full of strange creatures and even stranger people. The island's bananas are p Terry Pratchett is a weird and wonderful writer; his style is completely unique. There really is no other author quite like him and there will probably never be another, a true orginal. His humour is so strange, but remarkably witty. Some of the metaphors he uses are just plain genius. This is the first Terry Pratchett book I read, and I really do need to go and read some more. This novel takes place on a wacky island full of strange creatures and even stranger people. The island's bananas are pink, the trees secrete poison, it has tree climbing octopus, and stones that are worshipped as gods by the inhabitants. Doesn't it just sound like a great place? Unfortunately for Mau, one of two protagonists in this novel, his tribe is wiped out by a great wave that surges all nearby land. \u201cHe could see that the village had gone. The wave had sliced it off the island. A few stumps marked the place the long house had stood since\u2026.. for ever. The wave had torn up the reef. A wave like that would not have even noticed the village.\" On the other hand, the island itself remains intact. Mau, however, doesn\u2019t have a soul. He was completing his initiation to manhood when the wave struck; he didn\u2019t get chance to finish as the initiators all died leaving his transcendence incomplete. What\u2019s the poor half-man to do? He concocts a death wish plain and simple. There\u2019s no reason to live anymore. Well, until the second protagonist\u2019s boat, Sweet Jude , shipwrecks her on the island. Ermintrude (later called Daphne) is a trouserwoman: a person from civilisation who is not a tribal and is defined by her culture's wearing of trousers! Quite funny really, these people are silly trousermen and silly trouserwomen, well at least they are to Mau. Pratchett has created a brilliant narrative voice for Mau that is ever so evocative of his innocence and of his humorous perceptions of westerners. Ermintrude almost shoots him when they first meet and the poor lad thinks the gun is a \u201cspark-maker\u201d to help with building fires. Is this a frown at imperialism? I think so. Ermintrude is also a lady who loves to use the etiquette her Grandmother has taught her, quite the contrast to Mau\u2019s tribal standards. After the two get over their first hilariously embarrassing attempts of communication, and manage to gain a small degree of understanding of one another, they must try to survive on the remains of the wonderful island. No easy task considering another bunch of people wash up on island including a wise old priest, a pregnant mute woman and eventually another family group. This is foreshadowed by the approaching cannibalistic raiders that want to kill everyone on the island. Mau and Daphne must solidify their newly forming culture with the remains of the old one, and learn to survive. This book was great. The writing was superb, the plot exciting and the characters well rounded and funny. More importantly, however, Terry pratchett is an uplifting change to those novelists who take themselves too seriously. I should read more books like this, books that are random and odd Here's a picture of a bird: ...more Young Mau is a boy living on an island he knows only as the Nation. He has been sent to the Boy's Island where he must survive until he can, using only the tools of the island, build a canoe that will take him on the return voyage to the Nation. By doing so, he will prove that he is a man and the village will celebrate as he sheds his boy's soul and takes on his man's soul. Except, when he returns, there are no fires. There are no feasts. There is no one to welcome him home. What is there is dea Young Mau is a boy living on an island he knows only as the Nation. He has been sent to the Boy's Island where he must survive until he can, using only the tools of the island, build a canoe that will take him on the return voyage to the Nation. By doing so, he will prove that he is a man and the village will celebrate as he sheds his boy's soul and takes on his man's soul. Except, when he returns, there are no fires. There are no feasts. There is no one to welcome him home. What is there is death, destruction, and the dawning realization that the Nation, a powerful island tribe, has now been reduced to a population of one. If Mau dies, then the Nation--its heritage, its ancestors, its religion--will die, too. This book had two strikes against it when I picked it up: 1) it's marketed as young adult and 2) my one foray into Pratchett's writing, The Color of Magic , was underwhelming. So Nation was a very pleasant surprise. This isn't young adult literature in the sense that it's written strictly for a younger audience, but I think it has been labeled as such because the protagonist is young and, now that no one is there to perform the rituals that will draw his man's soul to him, wonders if he'll always be more than a boy but less than a man. What seems to be a deceptively simple adventure tale on the surface has levels of complexity as it explores issues tied to colonialism, existentialism, feminism, and racism (and one must admit that's an impressive collection of \"isms\"). As Mau works tirelessly to bury the bodies at sea according to custom, he begins to--as so many do after a traumatic and life-altering crisis--question the gods and everything he's ever been taught to believe in. This confrontation with the void is complicated by the fact that Mau suddenly hears what may be the voices of the gods speaking directly to him. When he comes into contact with whites, he questions whether or not his people, who seemed to have everything, were really inferior savages. Now, if all that sounds terribly tedious and didactic to you, WAIT--THERE'S MORE! There's also action, adventure, romance, and humor. There are tsunamis, shipwrecks, mutineers, kings, secret passages, sharks, beer, cannons, and a foul-mouthed parrot. And there's a damsel who can take care of herself, thank you very much. And that's the wonderful thing about this book. It causes the reader to think while being entertained. And Pratchett accomplishes all of this without being preachy or trying to substitute his answer for your own. In fact, his message seems to be that you must have faith in something--whether it's a god, a science, or a nation. As long as what you believe in is good and furthers mankind, your faith is not wasted. Perhaps his stance is best summed up by one of the characters: Everything I know makes me believe Imo [the god of the islanders] is in the order that is inherent, amazingly, in all things, and in the way the universe opens to our questioning. When I see the shining path over the lagoon, on an evening like this, at the end of a good day, I believe . . . I just believe. You know, in things generally. That works too. Religion is not an exact science. Sometimes, of course, neither is science. (366) In Nation , as in life, there are no easy answers, but, as in life, it's one helluva ride. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder and at Shelf Inflicted ...more I am a huge Terry Pratchett fan but have to admit I like his adult books best. His YA writings, like this one, are simpler, not as cynical and therefore not as funny. Nevertheless they are still very good. Nation begins with a tsunami which wipes out the residents of many islands including the one where Mau ends up being the only survivor. A variety of refugees arrive over the following days and numerous entertaining events occur. Pratchett does delve quite deeply into beliefs and the existence o I am a huge Terry Pratchett fan but have to admit I like his adult books best. His YA writings, like this one, are simpler, not as cynical and therefore not as funny. Nevertheless they are still very good. Nation begins with a tsunami which wipes out the residents of many islands including the one where Mau ends up being the only survivor. A variety of refugees arrive over the following days and numerous entertaining events occur. Pratchett does delve quite deeply into beliefs and the existence or otherwise of gods. Mau considers at length what kind of gods would let so many people die. The humour in the book comes mostly from the relationships and eventual understandings which develop between the islanders and the \"trouser people\" ( that's us - people who wear trousers!) This is a good book which just occasionally lets itself wander a bit too far too often into philosophising. Still very good reading:) ...more Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. I suppose that after twenty-five years of writing DiscWorld novels, Terry Pratchett has earned the right to do something a bit different. And different is precisely what he does with his latest novel, \"Nation.\" \"Nation\" is a story set in a parallel universe to ours, but it's not the world of DiscWorld. (Though it could someday be, I suppose, though I hope Pratchett resists the temptation to \"tie together\" all his universes). Mau is a young boy, sent on a quest to become a man by his tribe. Daphne I suppose that after twenty-five years of writing DiscWorld novels, Terry Pratchett has earned the right to do something a bit different. And different is precisely what he does with his latest novel, \"Nation.\" \"Nation\" is a story set in a parallel universe to ours, but it's not the world of DiscWorld. (Though it could someday be, I suppose, though I hope Pratchett resists the temptation to \"tie together\" all his universes). Mau is a young boy, sent on a quest to become a man by his tribe. Daphne is a young girl on a large ship from a \"civilized\" nation, headed out to join her father at a foreign post. This unlikely duo cross paths when a huge wave wipes out Mau's entire village and shipwrecks Daphne on an island with him. Together, the two must learn to forge a new civilization, figuring out what is essential to keep from their old lives and what can and probably should be discarded from their old ways of life. Eventually, the two begin to forge their own civilization and soon have various refuges showing up, looking for shelter who become part of the new nation being formed on the island. As I said before, if you're looking for your \"typical\" Pratchett, you'd be best advised to pick up a DiscWorld novel. That's not to dismmiss \"Nation,\" but instead to say that this story has the same style but is distinctly different. Pratchett still has a way with words, but it's used less to humorous effect here and more toward building the world and finding new and interesting ways to describe things. And this is a novel that is firmly about the characters of Mau, Daphne. Pratchett spends a good deal of time early in the story estabishing who they and the backgrounds they come form, all before beginning to tear it down and rebuild things. It's an interesting process to watch unfold on the page and it leads to some interesting observations by Pratchett through the eyes of his two characters. In his epilogue, Pratchett says he hopes this novel will make readers think. And while there were moments in the story where I wondered what he was up to, I will have to admit the ideas, concepts and torn-down assumptions from this novel have stayed with me long after the last page was turned. It's not DiscWorld. It's some very different. And it's something very good. ...more This is YA so I won't give it an official review, but man is it top notch stuff. Faith and desert islands. Foul-mouthed parrots and science. It's a little like Swiss Family Robinson, a little like Casablanca, and a little like nothing I've read before. Grand great stuff. (review in English below) Esta hist\u00f3ria inicia-se com um tsunami, que desencadeia todos os acontecimentos que se seguem. Ler este livro foi como se tamb\u00e9m eu tivesse sido apanhada por esse tsunami - foi completamente inesperado e seguramente ter\u00e1 consequ\u00eancias duradouras, uma das quais ser\u00e1 a obrigatoriedade de ler mais livros de Terry Pratchett. Disfar\u00e7ado de hist\u00f3ria de aventuras para jovens, esta \u00e9 na verdade uma reflex\u00e3o muito acutilante sobre o significado da vida, a import\u00e2ncia das escolhas q (review in English below) Esta hist\u00f3ria inicia-se com um tsunami, que desencadeia todos os acontecimentos que se seguem. Ler este livro foi como se tamb\u00e9m eu tivesse sido apanhada por esse tsunami - foi completamente inesperado e seguramente ter\u00e1 consequ\u00eancias duradouras, uma das quais ser\u00e1 a obrigatoriedade de ler mais livros de Terry Pratchett. Disfar\u00e7ado de hist\u00f3ria de aventuras para jovens, esta \u00e9 na verdade uma reflex\u00e3o muito acutilante sobre o significado da vida, a import\u00e2ncia das escolhas que fazemos e como acontecimentos que parecem catastr\u00f3ficos podem levar a experi\u00eancias incr\u00edveis e de tal forma transformadoras que, por mais terr\u00edveis que possam ter sido esses acontecimentos, duvidar\u00edamos em optar (se isso fosse poss\u00edvel) por que n\u00e3o tivessem sucedido. Esta \u00e9 uma hist\u00f3ria sobre a descoberta de si pr\u00f3prio, sobre a toler\u00e2ncia, sobre a amizade, sobre a coragem. A escrita de Pratchett \u00e9 inteligente, muito inteligente. As descri\u00e7\u00f5es s\u00e3o muito boas e os di\u00e1logos melhores ainda. Apenas uma nota para alguns aspectos da tradu\u00e7\u00e3o, que no geral \u00e9 boa (bem como a revis\u00e3o): o Renato Carreira tem de se habituar a usar mais pronomes. Eu j\u00e1 tinha feito este reparo quando li O Medo do Homem S\u00e1bio, tamb\u00e9m traduzido por ele (review aqui: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ). Mas aqui foi pior, porque h\u00e1 frases que ficam sem sentido, por exemplo: \"O serm\u00e3o foi bastante molhado, porque cuspia uma nuvem de perdigotos quando gritava, ...\" - n\u00e3o era o serm\u00e3o que cuspia, certamente... De qualquer modo, quer leiam a tradu\u00e7\u00e3o ou o original, leiam! \u00c9 muito bom! This story begins with a tsunami, which triggers all the events that take place afterwards. Reading this book felt like I too had been caught by that tsunami - it was completely unexpected and it will surely have long-lasting consequences, one of which is the obligation for me to read more books by Terry Pratchett. Disguised as an adventure story for young people, this is in fact a very sharp reflexion on the meaning of life, the importance of the choices we make and how seemingly catastrophic events can lead to amazing experiences, which can be so life changing that we would doubt to opt (if it was possible) for those events, as terrible as they might have been, not to have occurred. This is a story about discovering oneself, about tolerance, about friendship, about courage. Pratchett's writing is clever, very clever. Descriptions are really good and dialogues are even better. Just read it! ...more Don't let the cartoonish book cover fool you, as it did me--this is a lovely story about two young people from totally different societies, in the nineteenth century. Mau is a boy who has lived on a small island for his entire life. He has just accomplished his month-long rite of passage to manhood. He returns to his home island on a canoe that he built, as a tsunami completely devastates his home. That same tsunami throws a British ship onto the uncharted island, and Daphne is the only survivor Don't let the cartoonish book cover fool you, as it did me--this is a lovely story about two young people from totally different societies, in the nineteenth century. Mau is a boy who has lived on a small island for his entire life. He has just accomplished his month-long rite of passage to manhood. He returns to his home island on a canoe that he built, as a tsunami completely devastates his home. That same tsunami throws a British ship onto the uncharted island, and Daphne is the only survivor--a young woman of nobility. So these two young people meet, a sort of Adam and Eve story in which neither understands the other's language, behavior, customs, or lifestyle. Mau struggles desperately to understand how the gods could allow such an enormous calamity to befall his people. He continually questions his religion and his sacred beliefs. The best parts of the book are those where Mau and Daphne try to understand one another, their motivations, beliefs, and relationships with other people. Mau and Daphne save each others' lives, as well as the lives of other islanders who gradually make their way to the island. They are both amazingly courageous, smart, hard-working, and resilient. They both are clever enough to extricate themselves out of bad situations. Daphne is sure that someday a British ship will come and find her--and try to take possession of the island. It is up to the two of them to figure out a way to keep Western civilization from ruining the island. I highly recommend this book. The story is fast-paced, humorous at times, and scary at other times. It obviously is intended for young adults, but older adults can enjoy it also! ...more I'm not the world's biggest Terry Pratchett fan. I've tried getting into Diskworld on no less than 4 occasions, and have always stumbled by about book 4. BUT, the bride insisted I give NATION a shot because it's a stand alone, and hell, when the bride insists, the wise man listens. So this was a pretty great book. It feels like it could have done with a *tiny* bit more... I don't know what. 'Polish' is the wrong word. I don't know what the right word is. But I read somewhere that the idea for NAT I'm not the world's biggest Terry Pratchett fan. I've tried getting into Diskworld on no less than 4 occasions, and have always stumbled by about book 4. BUT, the bride insisted I give NATION a shot because it's a stand alone, and hell, when the bride insists, the wise man listens. So this was a pretty great book. It feels like it could have done with a *tiny* bit more... I don't know what. 'Polish' is the wrong word. I don't know what the right word is. But I read somewhere that the idea for NATION has been bubbling around in Pratchett's head for years, and he felt compelled to write it now before his Alzheimer's takes away his ability to do so. Which is sad. And it explains that feeling I got while reading it that hey, this is really good, but with a bit more...something, it could have been one of the greatest books I've read in my life. Pratchett has a knack for saying everyday things in a wonderful way. Mau is just a fantastic character - a boy who has lost his family, his country and his faith, and has to rebuild himself from the ground on up. Daphne the Ghost Girl is excellent too. In parts the book is very funny, and I almost get disappointed when Pratchett stoops to poo-poo and vomit jokes, but hey, he's British and as Ben Elton says, bodily functions are the basis for their entire culture (he said it, not me, get offended at him if you wanna) NATION is a book about religion and origins. Its a book about universal truths, regardless of class or race or upbringing, about the things that make us all the same. It's deeply insightful and the prose is, as I already said, simply wonderful in parts. So even if you're not a Pratchett fan, pick it up. It's well worth your time. ...more A great read! Nation works on many levels, and although it was marketed towards a YA readership, the novel has plenty of substance to keep adult readers thinking. The two main characters, an island boy just coming to adulthood and a shipwrecked Victorian girl whose father is 139th in line for the British throne, are vastly different in cultural background and life experience, but when put to the test, they find they have much in common. Both Mau and Daphne are brave souls with an unquenchable th A great read! Nation works on many levels, and although it was marketed towards a YA readership, the novel has plenty of substance to keep adult readers thinking. The two main characters, an island boy just coming to adulthood and a shipwrecked Victorian girl whose father is 139th in line for the British throne, are vastly different in cultural background and life experience, but when put to the test, they find they have much in common. Both Mau and Daphne are brave souls with an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. Highly recommended for all readers. Don't assume this is a Pratchett book in the Discworld vein - there's very little madcap humour here, but plenty to entertain you and provide food for thought. ...more This is a book that I found myself calling wonderful from the very beginning and immediately knowing it would be a favorite. It's one I'd recommend to nearly anyone. Be sure to buy a copy when it comes out in October of 2008. This alternate history takes place in a time when the redcoats were plopping down flags on islands without asking the permission of the natives. Most authors fail to give such natives equal or superior intellectual status with their European contemporaries. Instead, such peo This is a book that I found myself calling wonderful from the very beginning and immediately knowing it would be a favorite. It's one I'd recommend to nearly anyone. Be sure to buy a copy when it comes out in October of 2008. This alternate history takes place in a time when the redcoats were plopping down flags on islands without asking the permission of the natives. Most authors fail to give such natives equal or superior intellectual status with their European contemporaries. Instead, such people are painted as savages. Pratchett seeks here to blur the normal lines between civilized and savage and redefine these words. The story begins when \"savage\" Mau returns to his particular island for his ceremony of manhood only to find that the entire Nation has been swept away in a tidal wave. Upon his return, he finds Daphne, a \"civilized\" European teenage girl, who has been washed on shore in the remains of her ship. Out of fear, Daphne immediately and savagely tries to shoot the native islander. They eventually have to look past their pre-conceived ideas of each other as different varieties of savages to make the Nation live again. Soon other survivors from around the area begin to show up to take refuge there. Mau finds himself stealing milk from a wild hog and Daphne finds herself delivering babies and making beer. After Mau retrieves a fourth never-before-seen god anchor from the sea, Daphne urges him to go one step further and roll away a very ancient stone from the mouth of a cave to uncover other secrets of his forefathers. This is when a most amazing and unexpected discovery surfaces that \"turns the world upside down\" and puts into question history as we know it. Benjamin Franklin said in his essay \"Remarks Concerning the Savages of North America\" that \"if we could examine the manners of different nations with Impartiality, we should find no People so rude, as to be without any Rules of Politeness; nor any so polite, as not to have some remains of Rudeness.\" In Nation, Pratchett seeks to define the difference between the civilized and the savage in a different way than we normally do. Is one country civilized just because they were luckier in their inventions or the natural resources available to them? Is a cannibal more savage than a man who kills people and other living beings just for the fun of it? Could only Europeans come to logical conclusions about life and the nature of the universe? I wish this had been written by an American author so I could assign it in my American literature class. I just had my students debate whether native American Indians were civilized or savage. This book would have been the perfect accompaniment to that debate. Note: While I critique both purchased and free books in the same way, I'm legally obligated to tell you I received this book free through the Amazon Vine program in return for my review. Blah blah blah. ...more Finalmente, consegui arranjar um par de horas seguidas para fazer o que tinha h\u00e1 muito vontade de fazer: acabar este livro de uma assentada. E que bem me soube! As p\u00e1ginas n\u00e3o s\u00e3o muitas, mas s\u00e3o muito boas: as suficientes para nos levar numa aventura a fazer lembrar livros juvenis como o Robinson Crusoe, ou a Ilha do Tesouro, mas apenas \"por fora\". Porque na verdade, trata-se de algo muito diferente, e caracteristicamente \"Terry-Pratchettiano\": tem aventura, sim, mas tem tamb\u00e9m fantasia, surpre Finalmente, consegui arranjar um par de horas seguidas para fazer o que tinha h\u00e1 muito vontade de fazer: acabar este livro de uma assentada. E que bem me soube! As p\u00e1ginas n\u00e3o s\u00e3o muitas, mas s\u00e3o muito boas: as suficientes para nos levar numa aventura a fazer lembrar livros juvenis como o Robinson Crusoe, ou a Ilha do Tesouro, mas apenas \"por fora\". Porque na verdade, trata-se de algo muito diferente, e caracteristicamente \"Terry-Pratchettiano\": tem aventura, sim, mas tem tamb\u00e9m fantasia, surpreendentemente bem casada com a extrapola\u00e7\u00e3o sobre factos e princ\u00edpios cient\u00edficos, tem humor que me fez rir \u00e0s gargalhadas, outras partes que me deixaram bastante emocionada, tem uma reflex\u00e3o bastante profunda sobre o sentido da vida, enfim, \u00e9 um livro inteligente e muito bonito - que melhor maneira para fechar um ano de leituras? ...more Terry Pratchett is very angry. At first glance, it looks like Pratchett has combined the descriptions from Simon Winchester 's Krakatoa and the Indonesian tsunami with the central question of Jared Diamond 's Guns, Germs, and Steel (i.e. why do the Europeans have all the stuff and pacific islanders don't). But that's the surface, in this case much of the plot. The deep part is a look at the process of grieving. It isn't the simple seven steps. Our main character Mau (I kept reading it as Man at fi Terry Pratchett is very angry. At first glance, it looks like Pratchett has combined the descriptions from Simon Winchester 's Krakatoa and the Indonesian tsunami with the central question of Jared Diamond 's Guns, Germs, and Steel (i.e. why do the Europeans have all the stuff and pacific islanders don't). But that's the surface, in this case much of the plot. The deep part is a look at the process of grieving. It isn't the simple seven steps. Our main character Mau (I kept reading it as Man at first...our everyman vs. the gods), is pretty clear that he will not settle for that last step, acceptance. One of Pratchett's most well known characters is Death. But the likable Death of the Discworld books is not in this book (and yes, the Death of Discworld has appeared in other works by Pratchett not set on that world). Instead we get Locaha, who is much more of a fallen-angel Lucifer than an embodiment of the end of life...more a cheating trickster opponent than a welcome friend. Maybe I'm reading too far into it knowing that Pratchett has been diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's. But Pratchett has the right and the reason to be angry. We all do. ...more The premise is simple - a devastating tidal wave brings two young people of widely disparate cultures together on a tropical island. The resulting story is anything but simple; packed with vast and universal themes, mixed with humor and peopled with vivid characters. This has to be Pratchett\u2019s best. Like all his stories, the humor and the inventive quirkiness makes for a delightful read yet this is a story that also thoughtfully explores an array of fascinating themes ranging from faith, free wi The premise is simple - a devastating tidal wave brings two young people of widely disparate cultures together on a tropical island. The resulting story is anything but simple; packed with vast and universal themes, mixed with humor and peopled with vivid characters. This has to be Pratchett\u2019s best. Like all his stories, the humor and the inventive quirkiness makes for a delightful read yet this is a story that also thoughtfully explores an array of fascinating themes ranging from faith, free will, gender, science, class structure, justice, duty and the nature of the universe. I am sure this is a book that will yield more and more each time it is read. Outstanding! I completely fell in love with the characters and I also think that one of the most appealing features of this book is the underlying sweetness of it. Without ever being cloying, there is a belief in the goodness of life that flows from the story and moved me tremendously as a reader. I also want much more of the tree climbing octopi and the grandfather birds ;-) ...more A THOUSAND STARS! Wow. I was forewarned by friends and readers. I have read \u2013 and loved \u2013 a couple of other books by the author. So it\u2019s not like I didn\u2019t know the odds this would be good but this book? It blew my mind away. In its epilogue, Terry Pratchett says: Thinking. This book contains some. And that\u2019s true: this is one of the most think-y books I have ever read. I loved it with every fibre of my being. Nation is a book of ideas. Its main theme, that of construction and creation: the construct A THOUSAND STARS! Wow. I was forewarned by friends and readers. I have read \u2013 and loved \u2013 a couple of other books by the author. So it\u2019s not like I didn\u2019t know the odds this would be good but this book? It blew my mind away. In its epilogue, Terry Pratchett says: Thinking. This book contains some. And that\u2019s true: this is one of the most think-y books I have ever read. I loved it with every fibre of my being. Nation is a book of ideas. Its main theme, that of construction and creation: the construction of a home, of a family, of rules, tradition and religion. It is about those building blocks of civilisation itself and of individuals, in a way that is both extremely rational and enormously emotional. Writing that line just now makes me realise how weird that might sound to those who haven\u2019t read the book. Above all it makes me think about how hard it is to pull something like this off and to keep a balance between what drives a story and the story itself without making a book about ideas, a book that is solely about ideas. If that makes any sense at all \u2013 I am finding it extremely hard to write this review because how do you describe perfection? Especially when it\u2019s so affecting? Nation is a book about creation. It starts with the destruction of everything one of its main characters knows. There is a small island in the Great Southern Pelagic Ocean in a world very much like ours (but not quite) where young boys go through a ceremony where they shed their boy-souls to gain their man-souls. Mau is on the Boy\u2019s Island and is about to cross over to the main island to become a man when the big wave comes. He survives it but when he goes ashore to his home, to the Nation, he discovers everything he knows and everyone he loves has been washed away. His first action is to build a spear: \u201cWithout fire and a spear, you could never hope to be a man, wasn\u2019t that right?\u201d. But soulless Mau is all alone and nobody answers him. All alone that is, but for Daphne, a young girl who was aboard the Sweet Judy ship, whose wrecked remains are now part of the Nation. They are different because their background, their language, their traditions are dissimilar. They are equals because they share this tragedy and because they are both thinkers. Together, they work to survive and to create a home for those who slowly start to come to the Nation in search of a haven after unspeakable tragedy. First comes an old man, a priest who wants things to be kept as they always were and whose unquestioned belief in their Gods remains unshaken. With him, a young sickly woman with a newborn baby who is barely moving and can hardly feed. Everybody\u2019s immediate response is to fall back into the roles they have always known: if the mother cannot feed her baby, the only one who can help is of course, the other female, Daphne. Except Daphne \u2013 a young girl raised by a grandmother who believes young ladies should be Proper \u2013 doesn\u2019t even know how babies are made. Mau does what must be done in order to keep the baby alive. Hilarity ensues when he milks a wild pig but also: enlightenment for both Daphne and Mau. Women are not born knowing how to care for babies. Things that appear deep seated gender-led knowledge are not. A man\u2019s soul is not created magically because one crosses from one island to another. So, first comes destruction. Then, deconstruction: little by little, both characters observe this new world and question the old one in search of answers. It is a kind of stripping down to one\u2019s very core in order to understand. But it is a stripping down without letting go of the past completely because the rules are there. So Mau is walking around the island and he hears the Grandfathers\u2019 voices telling him what to do, to follow their traditions, not question their religion, otherwise there is no order. As much as Daphne abhors her grandmother\u2019s voice inside her head telling her to be Quiet and Proper, she keeps listening to it non-stop. Motivation counts too and Mau is angry. He is angry at the Gods and that leads him to question their very existence. Daphne is not moved by religion at all but by Science. There is sympathy and compassion toward other characters and those find their own balance and their own way of surviving. In a way, a wave came but they are not completely marooned because they have Tradition. But does Tradition serve them at this time of need or is that now an impediment? How important is it to keep going as it \u201chas always been\u201d? Or is this yet another misconception about the world? Slowly: the understanding that those are internalised voices and that questioning is good. To understand the HOW is all the more important: history becomes religion becomes tradition becomes internal rules living inside one\u2019s head. Then, forging and building. Mau and Daphne build themselves up and their thoughts are the roots on which they build a new Nation. And they do that by means of Scientific Method. And that is accomplished in a story that is moving, sad, hopeful and funny. Mau and Daphne have hilarious misunderstandings before they lean to communicate. Their community is built and deep connections are formed between people. A new Nation is born out of the old and people still have parties, drink beer, laugh, love, pray and look at the sky. Also: parallel universes. I don\u2019t know how my reading of this particular book has been affected by the fact that I am new to Terry Pratchett\u2019s main oeuvre but this to me, was simply wonderful. Interestingly enough, limited as my Terry Pratchett experience might be, I found Nation to be slightly different in tone (not as funny) to the other books I have read from the author but exactly the same in how smart it is. Nation is a rich and intricate novel. Yes ,it does have an obvious message about the power and importance of thinking, but this never overwhelms the characters or the story. I understood this very well when I started crying when the book was over. Plus, the epilogue is a wonderful gift from an author who truly understands his readers. This book spoke to me in a deeply personal level and I can\u2019t recommend it enough. ...more \u201cThey didn't know why these things were funny. Sometimes you laugh because you've got no more room for crying. Sometimes you laugh because table manners on a beach are funny. And sometimes you laugh because you're alive, when you really shouldn't be.\u201d The day I began and finished this book, I received the news that Sir Terry Pratchett had died. I was in school, this was my face: I have read many of his books, not all of the Discworld, but I will get there. All of his books I have loved or admire \u201cThey didn't know why these things were funny. Sometimes you laugh because you've got no more room for crying. Sometimes you laugh because table manners on a beach are funny. And sometimes you laugh because you're alive, when you really shouldn't be.\u201d The day I began and finished this book, I received the news that Sir Terry Pratchett had died. I was in school, this was my face: I have read many of his books, not all of the Discworld, but I will get there. All of his books I have loved or admire for one reason or the other, the humour, the plot, the characters, the writing, at least one of those was always constant with his works, this book had them all. This is also a young-adult book, he has written others before, but this one stands out, because of the extensive world-building he did, as well as the dynamic characters he created. The easiest way anyone would describe this book would be \"it is a survival story,\" and it is, but such a simplistic view does a disservice to this work. It is also about the world, and our place in it, tribal mentality, various religions, devastating loss, a search for identity. Basically, this is everything Robinson Crusoe should have been but wasn't. That is all I have to say of the book, but to Sir Terry: Thank you, you have made my reading experiences a wonderful thing, I am glad I got to read many of your books, and that I still have more to read. Rest In Peace, Sir. ...more A serious book from a comedy writer. The book is targeted at young adults, but I find it appealing at any age, as long as we remember that we were kids once, or that we will have kids of our own. This is the kind of story I would like to put in their hands. With a tale of catastrophe in an alternate-Earth Pacific ocean and a boy meets girl on a desert island, I thought at the beginning this will go either the Blue Lagoon way or the Lord of the Flies way. But sir Terry Pratchett goes his own way. A serious book from a comedy writer. The book is targeted at young adults, but I find it appealing at any age, as long as we remember that we were kids once, or that we will have kids of our own. This is the kind of story I would like to put in their hands. With a tale of catastrophe in an alternate-Earth Pacific ocean and a boy meets girl on a desert island, I thought at the beginning this will go either the Blue Lagoon way or the Lord of the Flies way. But sir Terry Pratchett goes his own way. While the story is much darker than the Discworld novels, this is a labour of love and a celebration of our humanity in the face of adversity. It is probably impossible for Pratchett to not be funny , it is as natural to him as breathing. So the funny parts are there, not so much the in your face slapstick from The Colour of Magic, but the more subtle type of social commentary and gentle sarcasm from his later novels. A little warning: the author is a scientist and a humanist and raises a lot of issues about religion in Nation . The scope is not to take pot shots at believers or to be insensitive to their faith, but to ask some difficult questions and to take the human spirit out the protective shell of ready-made thoughts (there's an appropriate blue crab analogy repeated in the text). [edit 2016 - for spelling] ...more Pratchett takes on imperialism, religion, women, men and fate. He does it well, and with greater grace than I can explain without spoilers. Just read it because I told you so, okay? This was my first reading of a Terry Pratchett book. For the first 20% or so, I struggled with his introductions to two different societies - one 'civilized' and familiar in a historical context, the other 'primitive' and mythical/religious in a pagan context. I had trouble putting these pieces into a single framework, and the story seemed slow to develop. Those who have read many of his works would probably not struggle as I did. At any rate, things got very interesting once the two main charact This was my first reading of a Terry Pratchett book. For the first 20% or so, I struggled with his introductions to two different societies - one 'civilized' and familiar in a historical context, the other 'primitive' and mythical/religious in a pagan context. I had trouble putting these pieces into a single framework, and the story seemed slow to develop. Those who have read many of his works would probably not struggle as I did. At any rate, things got very interesting once the two main characters - Mau and Daphne - took on their central roles. From that point forward, the pieces were falling into place for me. I began to admire the structure of the story, then to love the characters, and finally to let the lessons about cultures, knowledge and wisdom sink in. By that point, about 80% in, I was thinking that this was a really exceptional book, with a depth and subtlety that were truly marvelous. The closing section was a thing of beauty, with all the loose ends deftly tied together. I would certainly read this one again, and probably see the same beauty in the early portions that I saw later on. Without getting into plot details, there is much to admire and think about here. Like all really good fiction, it gives you characters who think and pushes you to think along with them. It turns your view of the 'civilized' world around, at least a little, and that was the part that will stay with me the longest. Wisdom comes in many forms, and willful ignorance of others is not wise. Here, the good guys get their eyes opened to these truths. The bad guys, umm, don't. Very highly recommended. I will definitely be reading more of Terry Pratchett's work. I was very sorry to learn that he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, and will be looking into associated foundation/research work in his name. ...more This book, I have had on my to-read list for some considerable years. It never got a look-in, as it was Pratchett, and there were so many Discworld novels to go through, that I decided not to read his other books till I had finished the main series. Well, I finished Discworld, for now, so was able to read this much recommended tome. Now, I love Pratchett, I really do - he is a comic philosopher beyond all others and his books are as entertaining as they are insightful and stirring. Almost every b This book, I have had on my to-read list for some considerable years. It never got a look-in, as it was Pratchett, and there were so many Discworld novels to go through, that I decided not to read his other books till I had finished the main series. Well, I finished Discworld, for now, so was able to read this much recommended tome. Now, I love Pratchett, I really do - he is a comic philosopher beyond all others and his books are as entertaining as they are insightful and stirring. Almost every book he has written is fantastic and should be compulsory reading. So when I say that this story, Nation, is overwhelmingly a masterpiece, by his own standards, let alone others - it is hard to think of higher praise to give. The strength of character of the two primaries, Mau and Daphne, lost together in different ways, is quite remarkable. For Mau, a struggle to keep living, in the face of anger and incalculable grief; for Daphne, a chance to cast off the shackles of her upbringing. Their love is palpable as it slowly grows, unlikely, but inevitable. All is wrong in their worlds, but together it becomes right. It is a book about the nature and desire of religion, and the quest for understanding, about how we came to be, our societies and our people, everywhere in the world - a little different, but all alike in the end. Well worth anyone's time. ...more I have tried several times to read a Disc-World novel from cover to cover, without any success. Since many friends of mine constantly point out that I am to blame myself if I don\u2019t like Pratchett, I read this one. At least I made it until the last page, but I did not like that either. Fourth world meets first world in the 18th century. Of course, the \u201csavages\u201d are the good ones, and they are much cleverer and more \u201cdeveloped\u201d than Her Majesty\u2019s subjects. But still, you can turn the world around I have tried several times to read a Disc-World novel from cover to cover, without any success. Since many friends of mine constantly point out that I am to blame myself if I don\u2019t like Pratchett, I read this one. At least I made it until the last page, but I did not like that either. Fourth world meets first world in the 18th century. Of course, the \u201csavages\u201d are the good ones, and they are much cleverer and more \u201cdeveloped\u201d than Her Majesty\u2019s subjects. But still, you can turn the world around as often as you want, you don\u2019t change anything if your point of view remains first-world-perspective. And even if you try to be politically correct (or especially then) and mix some (good) jokes into your story that doesn\u2019t justify a kitschy and unsatisfying ending. But there is one sentence I really loved and I will add it to my favourite quotes: \u201c\u201eWhat did they feed the lions and tigers with in the ark, sir?\u201c(Pratchett, Nation, p. 297) ...more Terry Pratchett has been my favorite author since I happened to pick up one of his Discworld books in Scotland in 1999. Since then I have read everything by Terry that I can get my hands on and suffer withdrawal when waiting for his newest work. He has a one-of-kind, amazing mind. His imagination is brilliant and unending. His wit and insight to human nature are the stuff legends are made of. Frankly, I could praise Terry's work endlessly and encourage everyone who hasn\u2019t picked up a Discworld n Terry Pratchett has been my favorite author since I happened to pick up one of his Discworld books in Scotland in 1999. Since then I have read everything by Terry that I can get my hands on and suffer withdrawal when waiting for his newest work. He has a one-of-kind, amazing mind. His imagination is brilliant and unending. His wit and insight to human nature are the stuff legends are made of. Frankly, I could praise Terry's work endlessly and encourage everyone who hasn\u2019t picked up a Discworld novel to run and get one right now, however, it would probably benefit readers more if I discussed the book I\u2019m actually recommending. Even if you shy away from fantasy writers, you will love this book. It is different from all of his previous work and I think it may be his greatest work. His being diagnosed with a form of early onset Alzheimer\u2019s over a year ago may have influenced the thoughtful tone of the novel. It is certainly a cruel twist of fate that one so brilliant of mind with so much to share may have it stolen away, bit by bit, like stealing one piece of a jigsaw puzzle at a time. The basic structure of the story involves Mau, a young boy whose home island is hit be a massive tidal wave destroying his entire tribe and civilization, The Nation. Mau\u2019s entire world is destroyed, literally. The book then follows Mau and his journey to re-build the Nation. Other characters are introduced as refugees come to the island. The most significant secondary character, who is really more of a co-hero, is a young English girl shipwrecked on the island. Her story provides an insightful parallel between the cotemporary, industrialized society of Britain as compared to the native island tribe that is Mau\u2019s world. I don\u2019t want to overdo the review and give too much of the story away, but this book is a new classic and a must read. In a deceptively simple manner the book peels away all that makes us \u201csafe\u201d \u2013 your home, your family, your beliefs, your way of life \u2013 and asks what would you do if it was all suddenly gone, and you are only left with the raw substance of your soul completely exposed and alone. How would you move on? However, please don\u2019t be discouraged by the \u201cthinking\u201d tone of the book. There is just enough signature Pratchett humor to lighten the mood and keep you turning the pages. Hope you pick this one up! ...more I've never made a secret about my love of Terry Pratchett's writing. In the lottery of picking a good book, choosing one with Pratchett's name on the cover dramatically increases the odds of winning. Nation is no exception. Orphaned by a giant wave on the way home from his coming of age ritual on a deserted island, Mau finds himself alone among the dead of his people, the wreckage of his village, and the flotsam left behind by the wave's receding foam...including a \"trouser man\" canoe, stranded hi I've never made a secret about my love of Terry Pratchett's writing. In the lottery of picking a good book, choosing one with Pratchett's name on the cover dramatically increases the odds of winning. Nation is no exception. Orphaned by a giant wave on the way home from his coming of age ritual on a deserted island, Mau finds himself alone among the dead of his people, the wreckage of his village, and the flotsam left behind by the wave's receding foam...including a \"trouser man\" canoe, stranded high above the shoreline where the wave deposited it, carrying but one living inhabitant: a girl, the off-spring of royalty from far of England. As Mau begins to rebuild, he faces the specter of Death, his fallen (and often annoying) ancestors, cannibals, crises of faith, and, ultimately, both his and the Nation's future. Daphne, the English girl awaiting rescue, will help him, giving him tools, companionship, and guidance, and both will face the prejudices and misconceptions of their cultures and history, remaking the world anew. And, of course, because it is Pratchett, it will be funny. Set in a world that is somewhere parallel to our own (that's Pratchett's description), Nation is full of the wonderful twists and plays on language that set Pratchett's writing apart. His characters and plots are full of the playful color and magic that leave you wondering if you just read a book of fantasy or have been enjoying the imagination of the characters themselves. In the end, it doesn't matter, really, because the characters have progressed in tandem with the events, real or imagined, and Pratchett's creative use of imagery, myth, fantasy, and conflict has become a well-woven fabric of the whole. Nation is a fun read that felt targeted at a young adult audience, but can be easily enjoyed by the adult reader. The tone, even when dealing with difficult subjects, is never dark or depressing, but always seems calculated to bring the reader along with the characters. I can't wait to reread it along with my teenagers (once I have some),and to enjoy their journey to a little island in the long chain of islands in a world somewhere just to the left, or perhaps the right, of our own. ...more Reviewed by Lynn Crow for TeensReadToo.com Mau is away from his small island when a giant wave destroys his village, leaving him alone - and unable to complete the ceremony that would have given him his man's soul. It takes all his strength just to carry on, with the voices of his ancestors haunting him. Daphne finds herself the lone survivor when the ship she was traveling on crashes into Mau's island on the same wave. With little to guide her but her grandmother's training for high society, she Reviewed by Lynn Crow for TeensReadToo.com Mau is away from his small island when a giant wave destroys his village, leaving him alone - and unable to complete the ceremony that would have given him his man's soul. It takes all his strength just to carry on, with the voices of his ancestors haunting him. Daphne finds herself the lone survivor when the ship she was traveling on crashes into Mau's island on the same wave. With little to guide her but her grandmother's training for high society, she isn't sure whether to approach Mau as a potential friend or foe. As other survivors gather on the island, Mau and Daphne form a bond and work to create a society that's all their own. Mau begins to believe in himself despite his fear that he lacks a soul. Daphne realizes there are far more important things than propriety. But when all they've gained is threatened by an outside enemy, will their makeshift community be able to hold steady? NATION has everything you could ask for in a novel. Its dramatic scenes are both poignant and moving, with Pratchettt's customary humor keeping the proceedings from straying into melodrama. Both main characters are distinctive, and it's a pleasure watching them come into their own throughout the story. The villains are suitably creepy and brutal. Little details of the setting and cultures make it all feel so real. Highly recommended to both teens and adults. ...more In the aftermath of a tsunami, an island nation rebuilds itself on the shoulders of a single native boy and a shipwrecked English girl. The language about discovering ideas and the inter-relationship between science and history, between knowing and wondering, behind invention and self-reliance is marvelous. Terry Pratchett 's perspective about people recovering from disaster is thoughtful: \"The most important thing was that time had passed, pouring thousands of soothing seconds across the island. P In the aftermath of a tsunami, an island nation rebuilds itself on the shoulders of a single native boy and a shipwrecked English girl. The language about discovering ideas and the inter-relationship between science and history, between knowing and wondering, behind invention and self-reliance is marvelous. Terry Pratchett 's perspective about people recovering from disaster is thoughtful: \"The most important thing was that time had passed, pouring thousands of soothing seconds across the island. People need time to deal with the now before it runs away and becomes the then . . .\" His character Mau's pondering on how to lead a people out of disaster is even more wonderful: \"A thought could be like a spear. You do not throw a spear at the widow, the orphan, the grieving. \" ...more Just this moment I realised that it may be time to start thinking about Terry Pratchett's legacy. I've been reading his Discworld novels since 1990 (wow...) and I can't pretend that all of them are great books, no matter how many times they make me laugh. Nation could be his legacy. It captures his humor and his insight into the human spirit - a very hopeful outlook - that reminded me strongly of Small Gods , my favorite of his books. If he can make you care about the characters in 300 pages, and Just this moment I realised that it may be time to start thinking about Terry Pratchett's legacy. I've been reading his Discworld novels since 1990 (wow...) and I can't pretend that all of them are great books, no matter how many times they make me laugh. Nation could be his legacy. It captures his humor and his insight into the human spirit - a very hopeful outlook - that reminded me strongly of Small Gods , my favorite of his books. If he can make you care about the characters in 300 pages, and he did for me, he's done his job. ...more", "Title": "Nation"},
