{"Comments": "don't make your books look like chick lit if you want people to read 'em.<---F> more free advice from me</---F>. but it's true - not all of us have a sarah montambo in our lives to tell us, \"no, this is really very good.\" because it is. and this is not just me groping all the canadian books in the corner of the dancefloor, this book is a sparkly little gem. at the beginning, it reminded me a lot of weetzie bat . it is a similarly glossy-slick storytelling style, but this one is about a girl with a loving junkie don't make your books look like chick lit if you want people to read 'em. more free advice from me. but it's true - not all of us have a sarah montambo in our lives to tell us, \"no, this is really very good.\" because it is. and this is not just me groping all the canadian books in the corner of the dancefloor, this book is a sparkly little gem. at the beginning, it reminded me a lot of weetzie bat . it is a similarly glossy-slick storytelling style, but this one is about a girl with a loving junkie single dad who treats her like a peer (and since he is only 15 years older than her, he's not far off) and they breeze from apartment to apartment in montreal in a daze where there are no consequences and everything will be okay, even if they have no money and there are dangers on the streets and foster homes. but it doesn't stay rosy. this one is not teen fiction, but she captures the young teenage character so well, in both thoughts and actions. even though baby is exposed to so much that is unsavory, she is still a little kid with a kid's energy, freaking out pimps with her sudden dancing and yelling, trashing a house and not stealing the jewelry (because of her own kid-logic) but stealing a cute turtle knickknack, avoiding bathing...it's like what greg is always saying when he talks about lolita ; that lo is totally gross,<---M> the way a little kid is</---M>, playing with her gum and being dirty and smelly, and it's not like in the movie at all, or in most may-december films. kids are rarely sexually precocious, even when they are imitating behaviors they have seen or been taught. the gross will always out. and i loved that about this book; the moments of kid-grossery that would pop out unexpectedly. in the back of the book, where harpercollins slaps all those readers' guides and interviews, there is this wonderful passage in her \"making of\" feature: the inability to properly identify danger exists throughout the book. whereas children can be terrified by a puppet of a crocodile or a photograph of a shark in a national geographic magazine, they are unable to get it through their heads to look both ways when they cross the street or that there are strangers that you cannot talk to.... when i was eleven, i used to have a friend whose older brother was a junkie. he and his friends were the coolest kids in the neighborhood. some high points in my childhood were when drug addicts would flip out and come out of their apartments in their underwear with cats on their heads. we kids would dance around them, shouting and laughing with our hands up in the air. i wanted to capture this nonjudgmental attitude a lot of lower-class kids have to drugs. i also wanted to portray the relationships these same kids have with seedy adults. children believe the lies that adults tell them and are dutifully impressed. lowlifes are fantastical creatures who animate the world of children, and, in turn, lowlifes love children who are their most captive and adoring audience. that's what i was trying to say, about the things i liked about this book. but she is a writer, so she said it much much better. this book was written five years ago. i am ready for a follow-up, please!! edit - yayyy!!! i finally got my second book. thanks for listening, heather o'neill! ...more Damn. This book just about broke my heart. It wormed its way in and split me three ways---three different identities rubbernecking in the lives of <---C>Jules</---C> and Baby. The story is seen through the eyes of Baby, a 12 yr old who lives with her Dad in Montreal. Her Mom died when she was one and Jules, well\u2026 bless him, but he\u2019s not the most responsible guy on the planet. Jules is the first rip in my identity crisis: He is still a child himself, having had Baby at 15 and deciding to take her out of the Damn. This book just about broke my heart. It wormed its way in and split me three ways---three different identities rubbernecking in the lives of Jules and Baby. The story is seen through the eyes of Baby, a 12 yr old who lives with her Dad in Montreal. Her Mom died when she was one and Jules, well\u2026 bless him, but he\u2019s not the most responsible guy on the planet. Jules is the first rip in my identity crisis: He is still a child himself, having had Baby at 15 and deciding to take her out of the backwoods of Canada to the gritty side of Montreal. He\u2019s a junkie with get-rich-quick dreams and an undiagnosed mental illness. I love Jules. I can\u2019t help it. I know too many people like this, I\u2019ve been where he is. I know, intimately, what he\u2019s going through. He\u2019s still a kid but loves his daughter enough that he keeps trying to pull it together to keep her with him. Baby\u2019s love for Jules is unconditional. He is her best friend and they watch out for each other only as fucked up kids can. As I was walking home, I spotted Jules on the street corner. He was craning his neck all over the place, looking around for someone. He started gesticulating in a way that made it seem as if he was having an imaginary argument in his head. He kept putting his hand, palm up, in front of him, as if he was asking the universe, \u201cWhat? What? What?\u201d His hat was down over his eyes, and when I called out his name he had to tilt his head way up to get a look at me. I knew it wasn\u2019t me that he had been looking for, but when he saw me, he shouted out happily anyhow.\u201d So, Jules and Baby go from crappy apartment to crappy apartment living off what Jules can sell from the garbage he collects and soup kitchen handouts. Baby is aware that she is different from other kids but instead of this depressing her, she feels special. She feels that her life is much more exciting and since she has nothing, then she\u2019s better off than the kids that do and end up wanting more. Pretty astute for such a young kid. Baby\u2019s definitely an old soul. Here is the next rip: Baby. I think back to being 12 and there is no way that I can even compare her life to mine. I had the suburban white girl upbringing. Baby befriends pimps and junkies and moves to foster homes and detention centers when her Dad is not well enough to take care of her. But, she does all of this with the strongest will. She is amazing. I can\u2019t say that enough. Her insights are beautiful: Suddenly I realized that I wanted everything to be as it was when I was younger. When you\u2019re young enough, you don\u2019t know that you live in a cheap lousy apartment. A cracked chair is nothing other than a chair. A dandelion growing out of crack in the sidewalk outside your front door is a garden. You could believe that a song your parent was singing in the evening was the most tragic opera in the world. It never occurs to you when you are very young to need something other than what your parents have to offer you. Me? I wanted to make sure that my new painter\u2019s cap matched my ten speed. Baby endures so much in such a short time. And I know that I\u2019m talking like Baby is real and that this is true, so I know that I need to credit the writing. I can feel the seedy alleys off St. Catherine Street. I can smell the wood smoke coming out of the pimp\u2019s dreads. I am there with Baby the first time she shoots heroin or loses her virginity. It\u2019s all so real and the writing is still fairy tale like in its delivery. \u201dCome here, Baby,\u201d she said. She threw her cigarette into the grass and spread her arms to me. \u201cI want to give you a hug. You don\u2019t get enough hugs, I can see that. I\u2019ll give you one of my special teddy bear hugs.\u201d I stepped closer to her to receive my hug and get it over with. She squeezed my cheeks and smelled my hair. She put my head between her two palms. Then she pulled my whole body to her and hugged me. I waited for her to let go of me, but she didn\u2019t. At first I thought I was going to die of claustrophobia, but then I noticed that she smelled like cocoa butter. I liked her smell. It reminded me of postcards and pictures of brown palm trees\u2026. Then I decided to just enjoy it. She had fat arms, the type of arms that held sailors and soldiers and thieves. The kind of arms that held someone who was going away to jail for ten years. They were the arms of a woman who had eaten a hundred delicious cakes and pastries to get them this comfortable. I wrapped my arms around her and squeezed her tighter. I wanted to feel every part of my body touched by her. We stood like that, just hugging, for a long while. Normally, I would skim a hug scene like this, but I was right there, smelling cocoa butter and seeing sailors. I love this book. The final rip was the one that broke me. This was the Mom in me. The need to take Baby and to shelter her even though she\u2019d probably fight me (and herself) at every curve. To ward off the fiends that are waiting so eagerly to corrupt. I felt for Jules and his fight to stay sober and his fear for Baby. I felt for every one of the street kids that Baby encounters until I was spent. I gave too much. I had to follow Baby\u2019s advice: You see only the beautiful things when you stand still. You only see things that you don\u2019t ordinarily notice. The birds are the prettiest things, I imagine. What happened to the Halcyon days of youth? ...more Second Review: January 26, 2016 Wow, did I ever write more concise reviews in 2008! In that spirit, I don\u2019t have much to add after this second reading. I\u2019m teaching this to my Grade 12 English class of adult Aboriginal learners. We spend a lot of time reading texts by/about Indigenous people and issues, such as Indian Horse . I wanted to expose them to a slice of Canadian identity (Francophone culture) they haven\u2019t encountered before. In doing so, we can compare that experience to the experience Second Review: January 26, 2016 Wow, did I ever write more concise reviews in 2008! In that spirit, I don\u2019t have much to add after this second reading. I\u2019m teaching this to my Grade 12 English class of adult Aboriginal learners. We spend a lot of time reading texts by/about Indigenous people and issues, such as Indian Horse . I wanted to expose them to a slice of Canadian identity (Francophone culture) they haven\u2019t encountered before. In doing so, we can compare that experience to the experience of Indigenous identities, and we can talk about stereotypes. As many of my students have experience with the issues in this book, it also helps them identify with the characters\u2019 struggles. I\u2019m pleased with how hooked they are on the book. (We haven\u2019t finished reading it in class yet!) What did I pay attention to this time? Baby\u2019s yearning for a mother figure feels much more pronounced. I also appreciate how, even though O\u2019Neill writes Baby\u2019s narration with a precocious vocabulary, she makes it clear that Baby\u2019s emotional maturity is far behind her intellectual maturity. Baby is an academically advanced person, but she can still be as petulant and childish as any twelve-year-old. Whereas in my first reading I was captivated by the characters, this time I also paid attention to the way the system fails both Baby and Jules. In the past seven years I\u2019ve come to understand how systemic problems, and lack of privilege, affect individuals and manoeuvre them into situations that give them few good options. That is very much the case here, as we see when Baby goes to a correctional facility for little more than having the temerity to experiment with drugs and have a negligent parent. Once again, the juxtaposition between Baby\u2019s relationship with Alphonse and her budding attraction to Xavier broke my heart. I wanted to cry as her facade of normalcy shattered around her and Xavier learned who she was. <+++>Lullabies for Little Criminals</+++> reminds us, over and over, of how we judge and are judged by others, and how these judgements influence us. Definitely a powerful novel, one which is not diminished on subsequent readings. First Review: July 30, 2008 About two hundred pages into the book, I suddenly realized that this story was breaking my heart. It's sneaky. You don't know you're getting attached to Baby, the main character, until it's too late. You don't realize you're emotionally invested in her, that you want to see her make the right decisions that lift her out of the morally ambiguous streets and propel her to a successful, happy life. So when events push her into doing the opposite, it's terrible. The theme that resonates with me most is that childhood is the most precious innocence we have. Baby makes several philosophical remarks about childhood, how society encourages us to grow up too fast--and the fact that we can't go back afterward. We're stuck as adults. As an 18-year-old, I've reached the legal age for adulthood. I'm venturing into that scary world of responsibility; no one treats me as a child anymore. I have the advantage of never experiencing Baby's hardships, yet I still feel confused at times. Everyone probably does, which is why this book captures your heart. Baby has no mother, and her father is not much of a father figure. She is a person of remarkable natural integrity and morals nonetheless, but as the book progresses, these morals get twisted further and further out of focus as she tries to deal with growing up while her father slips further away from reality. She goes through several phases of friendship, attempting to fit in at school, hanging out with other kids at a community centre, hanging out with a more dangerous social misfit than her, her first boyfriend ... and being seduced by a pimp. It was the contrast of those last two relationships that broke my heart. Baby, fast approaching the nadir of her pre-adolescent life, succumbs to the advances of the neighbourhood pimp. You think, \"Okay, this can't get any worse. Yeah, she's with a pimp, but she'll get out of it. She'll find a way out.\" Then she meets a boy her age and falls for him, and suddenly it is that much worse . Baby is torn between two worlds, two different lifestyles. She tries to push each away in turn, but both stick to her and try to claim her. The ending is open. It does not neatly wrap up Baby's life in an epilogue, tell us that she went on to live happily-ever after. If it had, that would cheat the book of its significance. I won't spoil it, but I will say it is positive. Trying to do the right thing is hard enough when you know what \"the right thing\" is. When you don't even know that, and you're a thirteen-year-old girl without the advice of a parent to guide her, life is much, much harder. ...more If you want to get a child to love you, then you should just go hide in the closet for three or four hours. They get down on their knees and pray for you to return. That child will turn you into God. Lonely children probably wrote the Bible. We forget, as we get older, how vulnerable it feels to be a child. To not be in charge. Not responsible for where you live, what you eat, or where your money comes from. In fact, we tend to idealize those days, thinking wouldn\u2019t it be wonderful to go back to If you want to get a child to love you, then you should just go hide in the closet for three or four hours. They get down on their knees and pray for you to return. That child will turn you into God. Lonely children probably wrote the Bible. We forget, as we get older, how vulnerable it feels to be a child. To not be in charge. Not responsible for where you live, what you eat, or where your money comes from. In fact, we tend to idealize those days, thinking wouldn\u2019t it be wonderful to go back to the worry-free existence of a child? We forget that children have worries too, especially if they don\u2019t have responsible adults in their lives. This book also reminded me of lessons learned when I was old enough to go stay at friends\u2019 houses: whatever you have grown up with is normal for you. Doesn\u2019t matter how chaotic your own home is, you don\u2019t realize it until you have a calmer home to compare it to (or vice versa). Your family\u2019s regular foods will seem odd to others, your mom\u2019s way of slicing a sandwich may even seem idiosyncratic to some. The \u201cnormal\u201d routine may seem very exotic to those children who have no routine to speak of. I was distinctly reminded of the memoir by Jeannette Walls, The Glass Castle , where she and her siblings just accepted the way life was with their alcoholic father and dysfunctional mother. They learned early to take care of themselves, because their parents weren\u2019t going to do it. And let\u2019s face it, every family has their own dysfunctions\u2014no matter how stable, there\u2019s some weird thing that every family does that make it \u201cunhappy in its own way.\u201d (Thanks, Tolstoy). Many lovely turns of phrase, lots of laugh-out-loud moments, plus that last sentence lifted my spirits with hope! ...more I want to say that I liked this book, I really do, but in the end I can only say that I tolerated it. I found the voice to be simultaneously irritating and endearing. The narrator, a 12/13 year old street child named Baby, has a habit of describing everything with multiple similes: After he said that, his kisses began to feel good. They were like tubes of lipstick being crushed against my mouth. I took comfort in his kisses. They were so soft now. They made me smile. His kisses tasted like my tea I want to say that I liked this book, I really do, but in the end I can only say that I tolerated it. I found the voice to be simultaneously irritating and endearing. The narrator, a 12/13 year old street child named Baby, has a habit of describing everything with multiple similes: After he said that, his kisses began to feel good. They were like tubes of lipstick being crushed against my mouth. I took comfort in his kisses. They were so soft now. They made me smile. His kisses tasted like my tears, so I realized that I was crying. They were like kissing baby\u2019s feet. It was as if little babies were stepping on me. After a while it's like having your hand squeezed too tightly over and over - it hurts like hell but at the same time it's reassuring simply because it creates a sense of repetition. It doesn\u2019t help that the subject matter is so bleak: child prostitution, drug addiction, street life, poverty. Baby\u2019s ability to maintain some semblance of being a child despite her utter lack of a childhood is the one redeeming grace. She can express who she might have been even as she describes herself falling further and further away from that potential. The first person narrative definitely creates a sense of kinship between the reader and Baby, which renders her story all the more painful. In the end, there is a glimmer of hope for Baby and her father, but having been deadened by all the terrible things that happened along the way, I\u2019m not sure I cared anymore. ...more Oh, I really did want to like this book. I fell in love with <---A>Heather O'Neill</---A>'s story about Jesus in middle school on This American Life, and was hoping for more writing like that. Instead, I often found her writing style so distracting that it was hard to stay in the story. Just opening the book to a couple random pages: \"The snowflakes came down like little bits of newspaper. The night was a typewriter key that got stuck and kept punching all the letters on top of the others until all that was l Oh, I really did want to like this book. I fell in love with Heather O'Neill's story about Jesus in middle school on This American Life, and was hoping for more writing like that. Instead, I often found her writing style so distracting that it was hard to stay in the story. Just opening the book to a couple random pages: \"The snowflakes came down like little bits of newspaper. The night was a typewriter key that got stuck and kept punching all the letters on top of the others until all that was left was a black blob.\" \"All the trees looked like the tufts you pulled out of hairbrushes. They were like a child's drawing of lightning or the veins on an old man's arm.\" Like fellow reviewer Sharon, as the book went on I found it harder to care about the characters and what was happening to them. I still have hope for O'Neill's future work, but this one did not do it for me. ...more A more apt title would have been Similes for Little Criminals , it would have better prepared me for the onslaught of cutesy prose which, amazingly, did not bother me in the slightest even though sometimes I felt like I was being bashed over the head by cotton candy stuffed condoms. Like jelly filled gloves, slapping me gently but steadily across the face like the hand of a moody yet camp pimp. Guys, I am fucking THIRTY years old now. I can not get away with writing scathing, whiny reviews becaus A more apt title would have been Similes for Little Criminals , it would have better prepared me for the onslaught of cutesy prose which, amazingly, did not bother me in the slightest even though sometimes I felt like I was being bashed over the head by cotton candy stuffed condoms. Like jelly filled gloves, slapping me gently but steadily across the face like the hand of a moody yet camp pimp. Guys, I am fucking THIRTY years old now. I can not get away with writing scathing, whiny reviews because I am no longer cute and young like a uncoordinated yearling. I am now officially old and anything negative I have to say will be deemed bitter. Like old coffee grounds. No longer will you consider me edgy, I will be classified as neurotic. Perhaps eccentric, god forbid, geriatric. My reviews will be passed over, oh there is that cranky old bitch, who cares what she has to say, she's thirty and jaded. She was fine last year when she was fresh faced and bushy-tailed, now she's just all wiry grey haired bush and her face isn't fresh, it's OLD. Like an abandoned boot. I've pledged to stop wasting my time hate-reviewing books and spending the rest of my short time on earth reading great ones. I don't have time to dilly dally anymore. Tick tock motherfock, I got 3,000 books on my to-read list. This one, by this Heather O'Neill person was really long and there were several times where I got a bit worried I might see proper old age before I finished it. It just went on and on and on and I was about 75% of the way through (see, I know the percentages 'cos I'm one of those arse stains that use an ereader 'cos I'm blind as bat shit (okay, now that I've typed that I realised it's blind as a BAT (or bat-shit crazy). it's a nice amalgamation of both and I can see about as well as a bat turd so it's apt). Wait, where was I, I got lost in multiple sets of parentheses there. Oh right, the book. It was long and at one point towards the end I was like, I have been reading someone's well constructed brain-fart and haven't even questioned its unique and harrowing scent yet but then it picked up pace and finished itself off quickly and tidily like any good man should. i mean, book. Other reviewers will tell you things about Baby and Jules and use words like depressing and bleak and narrative and feelings . I want to just say this, I ate a whole packet of family sized salt and vinegar chips for dinner because that's just what you can do when you're an adult. You can make choices like that. Sometimes people like Baby can revel in heroin usage and homelessness at age 13 but what the fuck ever, she don't know how the hard bitches roll. It is totally 3.35am and I am sitting here hunched over my keyboard mashing at keys making things that look like words on this here screen because I can't sleep because my knees are aching and I have heartburn. Like a fucking old person. Seriously. I looked at my goodreads proflle before and was so taken aback seeing, \"details Age 30 , Female , Australia\" in my details that it's tainted my entire review. It doesn't hit you 'til it creeps up on you like that, written all matter-of-fact, balls-out, public profile THIRTY. I was going to write an entire review constructed solely of similes and look how fast it deteriorated. It fell apart like a newspaper sitting on wet grass in the humid rain of somewhere like Manila. Goodreads hasn't got \"TOP FUCKIN' ONE PERCENT OF REVIEWERS\" written there though has it. I'll take the liberty of informing you of that myself. They emailed me and told me this week, just like when your employer pulls you aside and tells you you're the best employee they've got, keep up the good work mate. Who even wants that quiet praise bullshit, sing it from the rooftops, give me a badge and a cocktail named after me. Put my name on a billboard, decorate a cake with a picture of my haggard old face on it. Way to make me sing my own praises and make me look like a douchebag, I've already made a tumblr post about it only to get ignored. Now I have to try and glean admiration this way as well. Fuck you goodreads, you still won't trick me into buying shit from amazon. QUIET PRAISES DO NOT WORK WITH ME. So anyway, how about that hey, top 1% and I rarely mention plot line or, hell, the book at all when I'm reviewing. With 20 million users that means i'm one of the top 20,000 on here. Amongst all the YA reading gif-fucking-using, picture slutting jerks, here I am. GIF free and thirty. I typed that as thirsty, which is true. I need rehydrating after all that chip eating. This book was pretty good, you should read it. ...more Not for one minute did I believe this narrator's voice. In every paragraph, the author muscled her way in front of the story and waved at me--\"Look at me, I'm a writer! Check out this metaphor!\" Baby (that's her real name) is eleven going on twelve. Her mother is dead, her father, Jules, has raised her alone in Montreal. He's only 26, and more of a child than she is. He's also a heroin addict, a \"loser\" as Baby is well aware. They constantly move apartments, often to escape people Jules owes money to, and wear clothes often pilfered from the lost and found boxes. Baby is smart, though. She does well at school, except for the times when she was younger when she followed Jules advice. But Baby (that's her real name) is eleven going on twelve. Her mother is dead, her father, Jules, has raised her alone in Montreal. He's only 26, and more of a child than she is. He's also a heroin addict, a \"loser\" as Baby is well aware. They constantly move apartments, often to escape people Jules owes money to, and wear clothes often pilfered from the lost and found boxes. Baby is smart, though. She does well at school, except for the times when she was younger when she followed Jules advice. But Jules gets tuberculosis, and the medication makes him crazy. Two months at a rehabilitation centre makes him distant and their close relationship is destroyed. Her own experience in a juvenile detention centre has a profound impact on her. The indifferent social workers assigned to her don't help. It's when Jules locks her out that she's forced to look after herself, and with no friends or relatives there's only one person she can turn to. Soon she's caught up in the world of Alphonse, a local pimp, and made to turn tricks - i.e. sleep with men for money, all of which she gives to Alphonse. I loved Baby's voice, her frankness, her honesty, her street-smarts and her yearning. I wanted her to do well soooo badly, my heart ached for her when she dropped out of school. The tone of the novel, despite its somewhat melancholic theme, could have been dark and depressing but is light and airy, thanks to Baby and her way of seeing her world. It introduces you to a side of Montreal you don't really see when you visit (I've only been there once), and explores the lives of the poor children who often have to look after their own parents, and whose value systems differ drastically from what is considered 'normal'. Highly recommended. ...more A magnificently beautiful first novel, and I didn\u2019t want it to end!! O\u2019Neill has a magical, musical storytelling style that is a pure joy to read, even when the subject matter is as dark as this. The story is about 12-year-old Baby, being (kind of) raised by her heroin-addicted and shiftless single father. It is an engrossing account written from the perspective of this thoughtful, precocious and surprisingly philosophical youngster, a memoir of life in the seedy corners of Montreal \u2014 a life tha A magnificently beautiful first novel, and I didn\u2019t want it to end!! O\u2019Neill has a magical, musical storytelling style that is a pure joy to read, even when the subject matter is as dark as this. The story is about 12-year-old Baby, being (kind of) raised by her heroin-addicted and shiftless single father. It is an engrossing account written from the perspective of this thoughtful, precocious and surprisingly philosophical youngster, a memoir of life in the seedy corners of Montreal \u2014 a life that is by turns both excruciatingly frightening and beautifully naive, and filled simply with a child\u2019s craving to be loved. It very effectively juxtaposes the dark horrors of life on the streets with the innocence and silliness of childhood, and every word rings with absolute truth. Loved it! FAVOURITE QUOTES: \u201cIn the temporary illumination of the headlights, the insects were scribbling out messages from God that we couldn\u2019t get. You couldn\u2019t see what was up ahead. How did you know that the universe still existed a few feet in front of the car? How could you know that God was continuing to imagine it all? How could you be sure that he hadn\u2019t forgotten about the road and that you wouldn\u2019t soon be driving into nothingness?\u201d [p. 72] \u201cSadness fit me like blue jeans. Sadness fit me like a hangman\u2019s noose. It crawled on me like an electric blanket and it was hard to resist its warmth.\u201d [p. 225] ...more This book was heartbreaking and sad. It made me realize how children are really left to the mercy of their parents and in this case her father. This is not a feel good book, but it doesn't mean that it's not a good book. I liked it a lot and I would recommend it. But be warned its gut wrenching and part of that is because its very believable. The author did a great job with that. You just know that there are children everywhere living these messed up desperate life's by no fault of there own. An This book was heartbreaking and sad. It made me realize how children are really left to the mercy of their parents and in this case her father. This is not a feel good book, but it doesn't mean that it's not a good book. I liked it a lot and I would recommend it. But be warned its gut wrenching and part of that is because its very believable. The author did a great job with that. You just know that there are children everywhere living these messed up desperate life's by no fault of there own. And in this case not even the parents fault completely. They are a product of circumstances, environment and social class. But what it made me realize as a mother is how important a mother is in the life of a child. Especially in the early years. To be held touched, kissed, whispered to and even yelled out of love to. A mothers love or someone who fills that place for a child is so important so that that child doesn't turn to just anyone to for fill that need. This book was wonderful and great one for discussion. Great book club choice. ...more I couldn't put this book down. The narrators voice and descriptions were great. Some of the sentences made me want to laugh out loud and cry in the same moment. It was pretty disturbing throughout, as one should expect a story about a young teenage girl with a heroine addict father and deceased mother to be. Honestly, I read it under the impression that it was a memoir, so I really thought the story was true, at least as far as the author remembered it. I don't know if I would have enjoyed it qu I couldn't put this book down. The narrators voice and descriptions were great. Some of the sentences made me want to laugh out loud and cry in the same moment. It was pretty disturbing throughout, as one should expect a story about a young teenage girl with a heroine addict father and deceased mother to be. Honestly, I read it under the impression that it was a memoir, so I really thought the story was true, at least as far as the author remembered it. I don't know if I would have enjoyed it quite as much as a story because I tend to give authors more lee-way with memoirs then with fictional stories. The ending was sort of abrupt-- but it did make me cry through the last 5 pages or so, so I guess it worked. I don't know that I would necessarily suggest this book-- except maybe to a friend who seems way to happy and perky and needs to be brought down a few notches on the happy scale. ...more Ok, so this one actually kept me up at night, both in the sense that I didn't want to have to put it down, and then once I did, the images still plagued my brain. I don't know what I can say about it... it was beautifully written, almost poetic in her descriptions, if such a thing can be said given the content of what is being described... those who have read it will completely understand. She did such a good job of recapturing the thought processes, and the mentality of being that young.. the i Ok, so this one actually kept me up at night, both in the sense that I didn't want to have to put it down, and then once I did, the images still plagued my brain. I don't know what I can say about it... it was beautifully written, almost poetic in her descriptions, if such a thing can be said given the content of what is being described... those who have read it will completely understand. She did such a good job of recapturing the thought processes, and the mentality of being that young.. the innocence, and naivity. Makes you want to go back to when life was all about collecting rocks, chasing butterflies and reading archie comics. Her metaphors were brilliant in their simplicity... can't think of anything of the top of my head, other then it was phenomenal. Thats it. ...more <+++>Lullabies for Little Criminals</+++>, set in the crime-alerted city of Montreal, is Heather O'Neill's most extraordinary piece of writing so far. I happened to glance through the first few pages of this book when I was hunting for books to help me endure my Summer holidays, at my local bookstore, and luckily I was only able to skim through the beginning of the book before deciding to buy it. Because had I seen what was in store for me at the climax, I wouldn't have hesitated before slamming that book Lullabies for Little Criminals, set in the crime-alerted city of Montreal, is Heather O'Neill's most extraordinary piece of writing so far. I happened to glance through the first few pages of this book when I was hunting for books to help me endure my Summer holidays, at my local bookstore, and luckily I was only able to skim through the beginning of the book before deciding to buy it. Because had I seen what was in store for me at the climax, I wouldn't have hesitated before slamming that book back in the bookshelf, where I though it belonged. Prostitution, drug addictions and 'pimp' stalkers are not things I expected a 12 year old to deal with, even in one of the most crime-infected areas of the world. But as the novel progressed, so did my interest, and I found myself rushing through the last few pages of the book, gripping the pages while anticipating the ending. The story is based around the life of Baby, a vulnerable yet smart young girl, while she battles between the fine lines that define childhood and adulthood. She struggles with reality, and forces herself to oblivion to avoid the ugly facts that confront her when her father her father indulges his Heroin addiction and abandons all presences of looking after her. With a 'pimp' who strikes up a special interest to Baby and a sometimes-abusive father, Baby's life is far from perfect, but she manages to find beauty in certain things in life that we ourselves take for granted, which undoubtedly keeps her afloat to the chaos that engulfs her through her 'childhood'. This was, without a doubt, one of the most enthralling books I have ever read. No, not because of an extraordinary use of vocabulary or insightful observations, but because it was an honest-to-god, factual novel that actually allowed the reader to step into 12 year old Baby's world and experience the dark, dangerous city of Montreal as it is. Although this book may be hard to digest, it certainly provides an inside look into the world of drug-lords and addicts. Yes, O'Neill lacks personal opinion and feeling in certain incidents in the novel, such as ransacking a former friend's house or being subjected to abuse, but that proves to be an asset rather than a vulnerability. The casual way the author is able to describe incidents with an oblivious feel to narration, makes the facts she puts down so much more realistic. Scrape away the few emotions that sugarcoat Baby's life and you have some horrendous facts in front of you, and the fact that the 12 year old is unable to process then means that it is your job to do so. Add the fact that the events of this novel are narrated without a trace of self-pity or wallowing, and the novel is the perfect tool for instant gratitude. Had Baby resided to her room each time she was treated unfairly, bawling her eyes out while marveling at her misfortune, I would have been able to relate to the character so much more. But her lack of self-awareness only led to me becoming so much more aware of her, and I found myself taking her place and pitying her. Baby was used throughout the novel, and her naivety makes it so much more agitating to get through the book. At some point in the novel I felt like shouting in her ear 'He's taking advantage of you, DO something!'. She only adds to my angst when she wordlessly accepts the criticism and mistreatment her father and Alphonse (her 'pimp') had to offer without any protests, but perhaps O'Neill meant for us to feel this way as to truly let us see the real picture she had painted for us. Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone who was feeling particular ungrateful or spiteful at any time of the day, because this shocking novel will snap you right out of any fits, and will have you counting your lucky stars in no time. A word of caution, this book is not for the fainthearted, so if you're looking for one of those happy-go-lucky novels before bedtime, perhaps you should try another novel. Although this novel is difficult to get through, and is quite hard to get into towards the beginning, you will certainly thank yourself when you actually finish reading and have experienced the book for yourself. ...more 12 year old Baby lives with her 27 year old father Jules in a run down apartment in Montreal. She's known little else of life, seeing that her mother was tragically killed at a young age, and for the most part, life's been okay with Jules. He tries hard and he provides what he can when he can. Except, now that Baby is at that tender age of awareness of adults and their faults, she's realizing Jules is far more troubled than she ever believed. He is in and out of rehab for drugs, for illness, for 12 year old Baby lives with her 27 year old father Jules in a run down apartment in Montreal. She's known little else of life, seeing that her mother was tragically killed at a young age, and for the most part, life's been okay with Jules. He tries hard and he provides what he can when he can. Except, now that Baby is at that tender age of awareness of adults and their faults, she's realizing Jules is far more troubled than she ever believed. He is in and out of rehab for drugs, for illness, for being an all together wreck of a human being. Baby herself shifts from an apartment with Jules to a home for children then back to life with Jules and then, ultimately, the most painful life: living with the man who took away all of her innocence. O'Neill's book was incredibly hard to read, as Baby's story begins as entirely optimistic, despite being dark and painful. Being Jules's age, I kept finding myself caring a lot about his story and worrying about him in a way that Baby purposefully didn't -- which is testament to the skill of the writing, I think. As much as this is Baby's story, she herself is so outwardly focused that she doesn't realize how much life around her impacts her directly. She's very much looking for that silver lining and appreciating it on immense levels. But Baby loses so much of herself when (view spoiler) [ she falls into being abused sexually. While she agrees to being sexually active with older men, agrees to being prostituted out, it's downright abuse of her. As readers, we watch her innocence being raped away, and more than once I had to put the book down and just stop because I was crying so hard. (hide spoiler) ] O'Neill captures that precarious age quite well, and the lens through which Baby accepts what she has is tough to understand, tough to grasp, but it's also painfully easy to \"get.\" It shouldn't be, but since we're so drawn into how her world operates, this feels like it is right. At least, that's what she tells herself and what she tells readers. We know it's not the truth though. The little moments of reflection, which are subtle and nuanced, sing throughout. I loved being in Baby's world, despite how awful it was, because for the most part, she looks for those moments and depends upon them to bring her through. At least that's the case in the first half of the book, and it's in the second that I found Baby to lose a lot of that wonder. No surprise that she would, of course, but it was here where I felt like some of Baby's voice shifted and became less her and more adult-reflecting-upon-what-that's-like. I found this especially true (view spoiler) [ when Baby would start talking about how boys couldn't get her off and when she made love to people. The language didn't work for me, the way she spelled it out and understood these very adult sexual things, particularly when she herself was such a victim of adults abusing her. I'd expect sharper lines and harder edges to impact her understanding of these experiences, as well as way less maturity. (hide spoiler) ] I loved the almost-vignette style to the story, and it reminded me in many ways of Douglas Coupland's \"Life After God\" in execution and the way those small moments all amount to something greater. Or at least they're working toward making that happen, even if they never do. The language sings in this book, and it's both a comfort and a discomforting thing. I think teen readers looking for adult lit will dig this one because even though Baby is 12, her story is far more mature beyond her years and yet she's utterly easy for teens to relate to. It's dark and tough to stomach, so it's not for the faint of heart. Longer review likely to come. ...more I give this a 4.5. This novel made my chest hurt. I'm not sure if it's because I could relate to its characters or because of how elegantly the prose has been written. Probably a lot of both. Lullabies for Little Criminals reminded me just how much power and responsiblity that adults have over kids. Any shitty parent or older sibling should read this book and remember the fact that all they have to do to help those around them is just care. It made me think about what poverty would be like if th I give this a 4.5. This novel made my chest hurt. I'm not sure if it's because I could relate to its characters or because of how elegantly the prose has been written. Probably a lot of both. Lullabies for Little Criminals reminded me just how much power and responsiblity that adults have over kids. Any shitty parent or older sibling should read this book and remember the fact that all they have to do to help those around them is just care. It made me think about what poverty would be like if the impoverished were more stoic and empathetic as opposed to depraved and nihilistic. Lullabies for Little Criminals reads almost like a short story compilation. There is a linear progression of the things Baby sees that change her and cause her to do what she does, but there is no real objective plot. It's like a fishbowl that's been shaken really hard and when everything settles, it rests in a dirt encrusted tipped over mess at the bottom. The fact that there is no real drive for any of the characters actually works for the story and shows just how shapeless and hopeless the lives of these types of kids really are. It also evoked Taxi Driver like fantasies from me of walking up to Alphonse in the street and just stabbing him in the chest and then taking Baby far away from Montreal. I knocked off half a star because when the \"climax\" happens you probably predicted it before it does. And you were probably right. The story might run a little long, but the writing is too good to pass up. Alphonse seemed strangely well spoken for a street pimp of 12 year old girls. I'm not sure what someone who grew up in an affluent neighborhood with tons of opportunities and nice parents would think of this book. I related to it because I watched similar types of people do shit like this growing up. However, the story made me wonder really how much differentiation there is between classes. Situations and set ups like this are strangely human and there was something oddly universal about O'Neil's characters that prompted me to believe a story like this could take place in any socioeconmic phylum. It'd just have different people on different sets. This book reminded me of Lolita, Native Son. As the reader I felt at times like Travis Bickle or Jesse Pinkman in that episode where he tries to shake down the two meth addicts for money and ends up spending the afternoon with their basically orphaned son. Stellar. ...more This is a book I think I will be \"carrying\" with me for the long time. It is heartbreaking and beautiful, scary and lovely. I don't think I can do right to it with any review, so just trust me and read it. What I can say is that Heather O'Neill has a style of writing that is absolutely original and wonderful. Her sentences are amazing, the words she chooses are stunning and the characters make you want to cry and smile at the same time. She managed to write about such horrific things in such pret This is a book I think I will be \"carrying\" with me for the long time. It is heartbreaking and beautiful, scary and lovely. I don't think I can do right to it with any review, so just trust me and read it. What I can say is that Heather O'Neill has a style of writing that is absolutely original and wonderful. Her sentences are amazing, the words she chooses are stunning and the characters make you want to cry and smile at the same time. She managed to write about such horrific things in such pretty manner without romanticizing them. I love how we can see Baby growing up simply through the style of narrating. All in all, it's a great novel and I am so glad I bought myself a copy. Now I am anxious to get my hands on other O'Neill's books! ...more I started reading this almost a year ago and put it down halfway through because I was too depressed by the child prostitution in it, but I braved it again recently. One of the things I like most about this is that even while terrible things are happening, there is a determination to represent lightness and whimsy in the midst of squalor. The character's father, Jules, is a sympathetic, idiosyncratic character despite being a recklessly negligent junkie, and there is a sweetness in their connect I started reading this almost a year ago and put it down halfway through because I was too depressed by the child prostitution in it, but I braved it again recently. One of the things I like most about this is that even while terrible things are happening, there is a determination to represent lightness and whimsy in the midst of squalor. The character's father, Jules, is a sympathetic, idiosyncratic character despite being a recklessly negligent junkie, and there is a sweetness in their connection that rang true to me. I wanted to scoop up both the characters and put them at a tea table and serve them scones and let them live happily ever after in a blooming garden. ...more There are so many reviews of this book out there, and it\u2019s difficult to find one which will say a bad thing about this book. It has been praised so highly that I had no choice but to read it. It\u2019s described it as outstanding, witty, riveting and believable. To me, unfortunately, this book was none of these things, and I cannot begin to imagine why people thought it was. I hated it from beginning to end; it was truly awful. When I start a book, I like to finish it. I like to get a good idea of th There are so many reviews of this book out there, and it\u2019s difficult to find one which will say a bad thing about this book. It has been praised so highly that I had no choice but to read it. It\u2019s described it as outstanding, witty, riveting and believable. To me, unfortunately, this book was none of these things, and I cannot begin to imagine why people thought it was. I hated it from beginning to end; it was truly awful. When I start a book, I like to finish it. I like to get a good idea of the writing style, and if I hate the book from the beginning I like to see whether or not my opinion can be turned around. This has been known to happen. Forcing myself to finish Lullabies was nothing short of self-torture. There was nothing in this book that made me want to keep reading. The characterisation was laughable! I had no shred of concern about anyone in the slightest. This is a very young girl who has been thrown into a world of prostitution and addiction. O'Neill did absolutely nothing to evoke my sympathies in this girl; in actual fact this poor abused girl was a chronic irritation. From the beginning, pieces of plot are thrown at us for nothing more than shock value. I didn't feel shock. I didn't feel anything because I wasn't connecting with anything in this book at all. It was a completely numb experience for me. The Independent on Sunday said this book was full of 'magical imagery'. I do beg to differ. O'Neill tried too hard to romanticise scenes, giving us the most ridiculous imagery that could ever be imagined. Her similes were irrelevant and nonsensical; it seemed as though they were just thrown in to put stars in our eyes. Each sentence seemed to be a line of nonsense which had just been thrown in for effect. The plot ended up extremely disjointed as a result of this - I had no idea where I was for the majority of my time reading. I\u2019d have laughed if I wasn\u2019t too busy grinding my teeth. Not only did O'Neill overly fabricate her writing style, her morals leave something to be desired as well. There was no sense of right or wrong in this novel, the themes of addiction and prostitution were embellished into elements of a wonderful, glamorous life. There was no shred of empathy, just a severe elaboration of a girl's poverty stricken life. Although I can appreciate what O'Neill was trying to do with this novel, it is safe to say that she has missed the point by a long shot. I could go on and on about this book's shortcomings, but I would be sitting here for a long time. I just can't even begin to fathom why this novel has won and been nominated for so many book awards, where better novels have deserved to win, but have missed out. It\u2019s shocking. If you value my opinions at all, please avoid this one. I feel like I have wasted my time reading and reviewing when I could've been reading something else. Avoid like the plague! ...more Five stars is nowhere near enough for this book. It has to be one of my favorite reads in years. Between the druggy dad and pimp friend this girl stands little chance in life. She is smart yet naive. Even to the end there is always hope for her to succeed. You just want to wrap your arms around her and give her a great hug. She deserves someone to give her a warm home, hot meals and unconditional love - she earned it!!! Searing and gorgeous, ruthless and perfect. I re-read in anticipation for O'Neill's newest release, The Lonely Hearts Hotel. I fell in love with her writing when I read this ages ago, and revisiting was a real treat. It's amazing to see how much she's grown as a writer, and the promise her debut novel held. O'Neill is a CanLit treat. Lullabies for Little Criminals follows Baby, a twelve-year-old girl living with her junky father, Jules, in Montreal's seedier areas. Though close, the year brings unexpected troubles and Baby and Jules become I re-read in anticipation for O'Neill's newest release, The Lonely Hearts Hotel. I fell in love with her writing when I read this ages ago, and revisiting was a real treat. It's amazing to see how much she's grown as a writer, and the promise her debut novel held. O'Neill is a CanLit treat. Lullabies for Little Criminals follows Baby, a twelve-year-old girl living with her junky father, Jules, in Montreal's seedier areas. Though close, the year brings unexpected troubles and Baby and Jules become further and further estranged. Craving any type of relationship, Baby falls deeper into the only world she knows: full of drug addicts, prostitutes, and troubled kids. She finds some type of solace in each, believing hurt to be love. But soon enough Baby's innocence is lost and she begins to realize that the path she is on does not lead to the life she dreams of. It is a tale of childhood, of innocence lost and gained, and, ultimately, a tale of the ties that bind. ...more I seem to be on a kick these days for semi-autobiographical books about difficult childhoods. Like The Glass Castle, Lullabies is the story of a young girl growing up in less than ideal conditions. The main character \u201cBaby\u201d (her name screams something indefinable about her parents right off the bat) is growing up with her father in Montreal. They live a life of constant moves, illness, hunger, and drugs. Eventually Baby garners the interest of the neighbourhood pimp, Alphonse. Heather O\u2019Neill do I seem to be on a kick these days for semi-autobiographical books about difficult childhoods. Like The Glass Castle, Lullabies is the story of a young girl growing up in less than ideal conditions. The main character \u201cBaby\u201d (her name screams something indefinable about her parents right off the bat) is growing up with her father in Montreal. They live a life of constant moves, illness, hunger, and drugs. Eventually Baby garners the interest of the neighbourhood pimp, Alphonse. Heather O\u2019Neill does a remarkable job of giving Baby a voice. She is easy to believe, and you follow her through the ages of 11-13, as she undergoes many changes with no one there to guide her. Her mother is dead and her father Jules, who is 27 at the beginning of the book, is a heroin user who tries to raise his daughter but doesn\u2019t quite get there. The character of Baby is one of the best I\u2019ve seen in this genre, and she walks the line between vulnerable and tough with little trouble. She is particularly believable in her view of things that happen to her as \u201cno big deal\u201d. A good example is when for the first and only time at age 13 her father hits her and leaves her with a black eye. Baby, rather than feeling sorry for herself, or scared, thinks about how cool she\u2019ll look at school on Monday. They black eye gives her \u201cstreet cred\u201d. One more experience to add to her list. Unfortunately, like many children of bad situations, she doesn\u2019t realize that certain things are supposed to make her scared or uncomfortable. That line has long been erased. I really enjoyed this book, and finished it in about 3 hours. It helped to have a sense of Montreal. It always helps to be able to visualize your environment. I could totally picture Baby wandering St. Catherine street. ...more Twelve-year old Baby lives with her drug-addicted, irresponsible twenty-seven-year old father in Montreal,Canada, where they move from place to place, from dump to dump. Her mom died and Jules, her dad, is still a kid himself. It is an endearing, upsetting, touching story - shocking at most, and depressing. But very well written. The prose is excellent. I am not convinced though that a twelve-year-old told the story, although the culture and behaviour was well expressed. But I could 'hear' the ad Twelve-year old Baby lives with her drug-addicted, irresponsible twenty-seven-year old father in Montreal,Canada, where they move from place to place, from dump to dump. Her mom died and Jules, her dad, is still a kid himself. It is an endearing, upsetting, touching story - shocking at most, and depressing. But very well written. The prose is excellent. I am not convinced though that a twelve-year-old told the story, although the culture and behaviour was well expressed. But I could 'hear' the adult voice trying to imitate a twelve-year-old. It is beautifully written though. There were moments when too much effort went into drawing out the reader's emotions. It felt a bit superficial, but only here and there. It was sometimes obvious, but not annoying. When life cannot get worse than it is, Jules step up and do the right thing. The book ends with a feeling of hope and a better tomorrow, after Baby had to live in squalor, most of the time, or were shipped into foster homes, taken to juvenile detention and landed up in the streets, homeless, taken advantage of by a pimp. I was amazed at the creative ideas used in the book to build the background. It really kept me reading. A brilliant first book. Congratulations to the author (although many decades later, lol). Oh, the title just ripped my heart out. It was perfect for this story. I am not sure if it is suitable for young readers, though. 18+ perhaps will be okay. ...more When I first began Lullabies for Little Criminals, I kept asking myself why I was reading this shortlisted for the Orange Prize for Fiction 2008 novel. It\u2019s different, to say the least, because the story follows twelve-year-old Baby \u2014 yes, that\u2019s her real name \u2014 through foster homes, her drug addict, widowed father, Jules, reforming his ways and relapsing, her time in prostitution, and her first love, Xavier. Lullabies for Little Criminals is also \u2014 according to the author questionnaire in the b When I first began Lullabies for Little Criminals, I kept asking myself why I was reading this shortlisted for the Orange Prize for Fiction 2008 novel. It\u2019s different, to say the least, because the story follows twelve-year-old Baby \u2014 yes, that\u2019s her real name \u2014 through foster homes, her drug addict, widowed father, Jules, reforming his ways and relapsing, her time in prostitution, and her first love, Xavier. Lullabies for Little Criminals is also \u2014 according to the author questionnaire in the back of my copy \u2014 based on O\u2019Neill\u2019s own childhood experiences. Baby, though, doesn\u2019t want your sympathy, doesn\u2019t need your sympathy. She tells her a story in a straight-foreword, removed manner that eventually made me stop caring about her, which the exact opposite of what O\u2019Neill should have accomplished. The first hundred and forty pages I thought the novel was ingenious, but once Baby distances herself from her story, I distanced myself from her. And I have to wonder how old Baby is. It\u2019s never really clear if she\u2019s recalling her experiences after the end of book or when she\u2019s forty-five, but she certainly doesn\u2019t sound like and rarely acts like the twelve-soon-to-be-thirteen-year-old she is supposed to be. She uses analogies and similes I don\u2019t think even a girl growing up the red-light district of Montreal would use, and it\u2019s quite distracting. She has a strong voice, but by the end it becomes nails on a chalkboard. ...more Gradually I will have to force myself to leave fiction with cute looking covers, and start reading real stuff. Although this isn't a cute story about 12 yrs. old junkie prostitute Baby. Still, lately I feel like I need something bigger with more meaning in my free time. Considering that I again started painting and plagiarising from Etsy everything that I don't want to buy and wondering when I\u2019ll win lotto to buy myself this . So, I need something more meaningful from books as well as I don\u2019t have Gradually I will have to force myself to leave fiction with cute looking covers, and start reading real stuff. Although this isn't a cute story about 12 yrs. old junkie prostitute Baby. Still, lately I feel like I need something bigger with more meaning in my free time. Considering that I again started painting and plagiarising from Etsy everything that I don't want to buy and wondering when I\u2019ll win lotto to buy myself this . So, I need something more meaningful from books as well as I don\u2019t have that much of a free time anymore and luckily that I don\u2019t have, because I would just... Go to gym, overly hug and kiss my cats, commute, eat, read, have arguments with my parents whose life is all sorted out and who travel more than I do, daydream with my not daydreamer sister who is more prone to do 1,2,3 action, be on the phone, worry about my American Express bill and worry about money all together, get sloshed with my dear friends and boyfriend who altogether I see so rarely because young professionals cannot wail about their jobs but they have freedom to crash exhausted on their beds when they come home at 6 o\u2019clock, morning after feel like the hangover ashtray. So this book is just ok because it\u2019s late autumn and lonely winter is coming, and I need to keep myself busy so I won\u2019t levitate during the next 4 months of darkness. Conclusion; I need more challenging books. ...more It feels off-kilter to have such maddening love for a book that is so distressing, but I have to say that this is the loveliest writing about child prostitution & heroin addiction ever. I can turn to any page in this book & find something marvelous. \"For a kid, I knew a lot of things about what it felt like to use heroin, just from looking and listening. Supposedly, it was like shaking hands with God. It was cool like a Black Panther. It was like putting your face on the fur collar of a It feels off-kilter to have such maddening love for a book that is so distressing, but I have to say that this is the loveliest writing about child prostitution & heroin addiction ever. I can turn to any page in this book & find something marvelous. \"For a kid, I knew a lot of things about what it felt like to use heroin, just from looking and listening. Supposedly, it was like shaking hands with God. It was cool like a Black Panther. It was like putting your face on the fur collar of a great leather jacket. If you passed by a poster of a band of singers coming to town, you could hear them singing.\" \"He had intense gravitational force. He was like Saturn because Saturn has so many moons. If I kicked my shoes up in the air, they would go into orbit around him.\" \"And I realized that up until that moment I had totally forgotten how much I liked snails. How dark and nasty they were, like a black eye. We sat there waiting for the snail to come out of its shell. I looked at Xavier, and it felt as if we were sitting there naked. It felt very intimate.\" \"'Oh, my holy shit! You're like a thief. That's cool. I love girls who are thieves. Sitting out here reading a book & eating stolen candy. Do you even realize how cool you are?'\" \"Before the bomb, your mother embroidered a bird on your pea coat. Once the threads came undone, there were no more birds. Someone would swear they had seen a sparrow, but everyone would've become a liar.\" ...more I love this book. I love this book. This book is like poetry. Every sentence made me feel something. It's the sort of thing that you read and you can taste the words on your tongue and you feel that they really mean something special. This is not the kind of book that you read for a good story, or to feel good or happy or excited. But that doesn't matter, because it sticks with you. I read some reviews on Amazon claiming that readers didn't like this book because the characters were unrealistic. I love this book. I love this book. This book is like poetry. Every sentence made me feel something. It's the sort of thing that you read and you can taste the words on your tongue and you feel that they really mean something special. This is not the kind of book that you read for a good story, or to feel good or happy or excited. But that doesn't matter, because it sticks with you. I read some reviews on Amazon claiming that readers didn't like this book because the characters were unrealistic. They claim that Baby doesn't sound like a child. I believe that's part of the appeal. Baby doesn't sound like a child because she's having her childhood ripped away from her. She's wise beyond her years because she's experiencing hurts that she doesn't deserve. But not sounding like a child doesn't make her any less of one, and O'Neill crafts this like a true expert. She makes bad decisions, she makes childish decisions, she observes things with eyes that are both innocent and gritty. It didn't matter if the pace was slow or the plot didn't feel present because reading it was like walking down an urban battlefield and living Baby's struggles. It's perfect. Really, to me, this book is a treasure. ...more JUST finished it. And want to read the rest of the \"Meet the Author\" section in the back, but I'm at work, so should...uh...work. There are images in this book that will blow your mind. Normally, I sort of roll my eyes when people type passages from the book on Goodreads, but I'm going to do it for this one: The minute Alphonse said those words, my guardian angel started humming and circling me happily. I could feel her there, getting excited. Some guardian angels did a terrible job. They were giv JUST finished it. And want to read the rest of the \"Meet the Author\" section in the back, but I'm at work, so should...uh...work. There are images in this book that will blow your mind. Normally, I sort of roll my eyes when people type passages from the book on Goodreads, but I'm going to do it for this one: The minute Alphonse said those words, my guardian angel started humming and circling me happily. I could feel her there, getting excited. Some guardian angels did a terrible job. They were given work in the poor neighborhoods where none of the others wanted to go. Every delinquent kid had one of these miserable angels who made sure that they made the worst of every situation. These angels loved when people did the wrong thing or took risks. You can't have that many bad things happen to you without some sort of heavenly design. I had never felt my angel jump so quickly to work as when she heard the word \"heroin.\" I guess she'd been waiting a while for someone to say it. ***** WOW, huh? Love this book. ...more This book is beautiful, vulnerable, sad, and sometimes vicious, reflecting its main character. O'Neill has a very particular style that she sustained for the whole work, and though I thought I would grow tired of it, her writing continued to grow with the character. I cried a lot while reading the book, but they were \"the world is awful and hard\" and \"agh the FEELS\" kind of tears, and I never felt like they were forced. I think people will react very strongly to this book at different points in t This book is beautiful, vulnerable, sad, and sometimes vicious, reflecting its main character. O'Neill has a very particular style that she sustained for the whole work, and though I thought I would grow tired of it, her writing continued to grow with the character. I cried a lot while reading the book, but they were \"the world is awful and hard\" and \"agh the FEELS\" kind of tears, and I never felt like they were forced. I think people will react very strongly to this book at different points in the narrative, but the author's prose and narrative managed to both squeeze and stab my heart far more than I expected. I particularly appreciated that it was written about and from the perspective of an extremely poor child / homeless person / etc. Such stories and voices are important, and I don't expose myself to them / they aren't written about enough. I also enjoyed the setting of (1980s) Montreal - I'll never walk through Square Saint-Louis the same way again. ...more", "Title": "Lullabies for Little Criminals"},
