{"Comments": "Nobody should pick up a <---C>Jack Reacher</---C> novel and expect great literature. I might be wrong but I suspect that that isn\u2019t <---A>Lee Child</---A>\u2019s purpose. What you get instead is a good dollop of wish-fulfilment,<---M> good writing</---M>, beautiful, intelligent and feisty females who are either integral to the development of the plot or just along for the ride, and implausible story lines! One shot is no exception \u2013 why change a winning formula? In Reacher, Child has created a character who is, perhaps, not quite the guy Nobody should pick up a Jack Reacher novel and expect great literature. I might be wrong but I suspect that that isn\u2019t Lee Child\u2019s purpose. What you get instead is a good dollop of wish-fulfilment, good writing, beautiful, intelligent and feisty females who are either integral to the development of the plot or just along for the ride, and implausible story lines! One shot is no exception \u2013 why change a winning formula? In Reacher, Child has created a character who is, perhaps, not quite the guy who every other guy wants to be (<---B>and with whom every woman wants to be?</---B>), well, at least not permanently. But it might be nice for a couple of weeks to: be able to kick ass as effectively as he does, to never be wrong, to be able, correctly, to second guess all the villains\u2019 moves and then to ride off into the sunset with a clear conscience and no dangling strings! But in common with all of its predecessors, and despite the implausibility of the plot, <+++>One Shot</+++> doesn\u2019t last a few days let alone a few weeks, it\u2019s a real page-turner. In a genre full of world weary, divorced, alcoholic, guilt ridden cops Reacher is a breath of fresh air \u2013 the closest thing to Casey Ryback outside of the movies! ...<---F>more A sniper guns down five people</---F>. The evidence against him is overwhelming. When questioned by the police he declares bluntly that they have the wrong man. Then he says, \"Get Reacher.\" The cops have no idea who Reacher is, but you and I should know, because, if we are reading in order this is # 9 in the series. (oops- I read this one out of order).. Reacher, however, is on the way already? Why? Because, the sniper committed the same type of crime during the Persian Gulf War and got away with it-- A sniper guns down five people. The evidence against him is overwhelming. When questioned by the police he declares bluntly that they have the wrong man. Then he says, \"Get Reacher.\" The cops have no idea who Reacher is, but you and I should know, because, if we are reading in order this is # 9 in the series. (oops- I read this one out of order).. Reacher, however, is on the way already? Why? Because, the sniper committed the same type of crime during the Persian Gulf War and got away with it-- under Reacher's watch. Now Reacher wants nothing more than to assist with the prosecution of this man. However, something catches his eye and the whole case begins to stink. Reacher jumps in and does his stuff. If you've read any of the other novels in this series you know that his stuff includes busting heads, killing bad guys, and analyzing the heck out of every situation. This is one of the best of the series I have read and kept me up late to finish. My eyelids got heavy, but I literally could not put it down until I finished it. ...more Good mystery-crime novel with lots of fast-paced action and even a bit of romance. If you are a Jack Reacher fan, I'm sure you will enjoy this entertaining book. As for the movie, it's kind of hard to imagine Tom Cruise as the big and tall Jack Reacher, but I still might give it a try. I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social con I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies. He embraces it. Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values. He defends those he loves, those he does allow into his world, with a loyalty bar none while never letting go of the notion that he is alone and being perfectly comfortable with that. I read one, and within two months read all 15 books with an appetite that couldn't get enough. Enough said, HR ...more This is the first Jack Reacher book I've read, and I picked it up because of the upcoming movie. I have to say my only problem with it is that now I'm going to have to read all of Lee Child's books, and I already have a queue of over 140 \"to read\". It's a really great thriller. It's hard to talk about it without revealing too much, hence the spoilers warning. My favorite bit is that Jack is not some flawless superman. He's trailed throughout the book and only once picks it up. That was something This is the first Jack Reacher book I've read, and I picked it up because of the upcoming movie. I have to say my only problem with it is that now I'm going to have to read all of Lee Child's books, and I already have a queue of over 140 \"to read\". It's a really great thriller. It's hard to talk about it without revealing too much, hence the spoilers warning. My favorite bit is that Jack is not some flawless superman. He's trailed throughout the book and only once picks it up. That was something I'm not used to in most thrillers. Most of the time the protagonists is presented with an almost supernatural ability to pick up that they're being followed. He's also kind of flawed in that he's essentially a homeless man. He travels with only the clothes on his back and the money in his wallet, staying in shady motels. I'm don't know if this is how he is in every book, but it's also very unique. It's also a pretty good mystery (even though we know a lot) in that you get to see Reacher put all the pieces together. If all the books are this good, I'm sure I'll have no problem making my way through this series. I now only hope they don't screw up the movie. ...more \"<+++>One Shot</+++>\" was turned into a vehicle for Tom Cruise and released to theaters late in 2012. I finally read the book and loved it. But a little background first. Watching the movie was my first exposure to author Lee Child's work. And after the opening scene and exposure to the hard-bitten dialogue, I was hooked. The back and forth got me to recall my obsession during college forays into used book stores hunting for early Mickey Spillane novels. The other memory it provoked was watching Humphrey B \"One Shot\" was turned into a vehicle for Tom Cruise and released to theaters late in 2012. I finally read the book and loved it. But a little background first. Watching the movie was my first exposure to author Lee Child's work. And after the opening scene and exposure to the hard-bitten dialogue, I was hooked. The back and forth got me to recall my obsession during college forays into used book stores hunting for early Mickey Spillane novels. The other memory it provoked was watching Humphrey Bogart in \"The Maltese Falcon.\" And yes, I'm a Tom Cruise fan. He's an intense guy and so short I didn't pay any attention to him and Nicole Kidman as they walked alongside my wife and I at Universal Studios way back when. But he played Jack Reacher like he really was 6 foot 5 inches and 250 pounds. I picked up Child's first novel in the series \"Killing Floor\" after reading a short he'd written on the young Reacher back in his military base-hopping days. I plowed through the first five novels before realizing I'd better take a break or I'd start punching people who deserved it. And I'd be out of more Jack Reacher novels if I read them all. Ok, whew. So I read some other stuff. Got some great recommendations from fellow book enthusiasts. I took in a Reacher novel here and there and finally found a dog-eared copy of \"One Shot\" at the great Book Barn near my home in Clovis, Calif. Getting into it took a couple of tries. I knew the story via the Christopher McQuarrie-directed movie version. But after about three chapters, that cloud of repetition faded and I got into the story. I pounded it out over several days vacationing on the beach at my sister's in Hermosa Beach. Again, I became part of the story. That invisible guy on the sidelines watching the case unfold. Reacher, as usual, gets an impossible situation and has to make sense of it. Along the way, he's harassed by the cops and treated like a criminal. Still, it doesn't bother him. He was put on this earth with a talent. And that's setting things straight. Bad people are not his friends. But Reacher does what's right, even if that means giving somebody a second chance and a shot at justice. Great stuff, especially after body surfing all day and kicking back with a craft beer on a deck overlooking the coast. ...more 4  stars. You need to suspend disbelief, but it\u2019s still a fun, tough guy story. STORY BRIEF: A sniper kills five people leaving a downtown office building. Several pieces of evidence point to James Barr a former army sniper. James says \u201cYou\u2019ve got the wrong guy. Get Reacher for me.\u201d Coincidentally Reacher comes to town for his own reasons. Reacher saw the story in the news. He knew Barr when they were in the army together fourteen years ago. Some bad guys don\u2019t like Reacher being in town and try t 4 \u00bd stars. You need to suspend disbelief, but it\u2019s still a fun, tough guy story. STORY BRIEF: A sniper kills five people leaving a downtown office building. Several pieces of evidence point to James Barr a former army sniper. James says \u201cYou\u2019ve got the wrong guy. Get Reacher for me.\u201d Coincidentally Reacher comes to town for his own reasons. Reacher saw the story in the news. He knew Barr when they were in the army together fourteen years ago. Some bad guys don\u2019t like Reacher being in town and try to harm him. Of course that\u2019s the worst thing they could do since now Reacher won\u2019t leave until he finds them. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: This is the ninth book in the Reacher series and one of the better ones. If you like the series, definitely do this one. The bad guys trying to harm Reacher was done well. Reacher\u2019s investigation and solving the mystery was done well. I liked some of the things Reacher did as he was evading the bad guys and the cops. I would have liked a few more fight scenes, but I won\u2019t complain. It\u2019s just one of my favorite things - watching Reacher beat up thugs. In the early books the author frequently used the phrase \u201che shrugged.\u201d In recent books, he is not using that phrase as much, but he\u2019s almost overusing the phrase \u201cReacher said nothing.\u201d Some reviewers complained. I was ok with it. THE SERIES: I suggest reading the books in order, but not required. All the books get 4 or more stars from me except three: Running Blind, Without Fail, and The Enemy. Save those for last if you\u2019re NOT a die hard Reacher fan. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 12 hrs and 13 mins. Swearing language: I don\u2019t recall any but probably moderate. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: two referred to not shown. Setting: 2004 Indiana. Book copyright: 2005. Genre: mystery suspense thriller. Ending: Good. ...more If you are already a Jack Reacher fan - the number of whom which I assume is now increasing each day (the last book - A Man Wanted debuted at NYT No 1 position this September) - then I don't need to tell you this. Jack Reacher books are entertainers - not much intelligence there - but very catchy and very interesting. Makes for great holiday / in flight reads. One Shot is very fast, very smart and totally un-put-down-able . Very vintage Reacher - coffee and eggs and diners, dollar stores, bus dep If you are already a Jack Reacher fan - the number of whom which I assume is now increasing each day (the last book - A Man Wanted debuted at NYT No 1 position this September) - then I don't need to tell you this. Jack Reacher books are entertainers - not much intelligence there - but very catchy and very interesting. Makes for great holiday / in flight reads. One Shot is very fast, very smart and totally un-put-down-able . Very vintage Reacher - coffee and eggs and diners, dollar stores, bus depots, hitch hiking and all that :) A lot of Army Vs Marine. A lot sniper related trivia. A very twisty plot and some REALLY badass bad guys - makes the whole book all the more worth it. Some interesting sense of humor. The climax is the only place where you see some action - but that's exactly what this book needed. Thankfully Lee does not use Reacher just cos he's got him and hence lets the story be the hero. This is as close to Sherlock Holmes that Reacher's ever got. The book's plot supposedly forms the base plot / inspiration plot for the Jan 2013 movie - but one look at the trailer and you can see that a lot has been played with (apart from getting that puny guy to pass off as 6'5 \" and 250 lbs). A lot of things which happen in the trailer do not happen here. Do not expect what you see in the movie/ rushes here. That said ...this book with or without being associated to the movie is a total value for money / time deal. Fun read ! ...more Everyone I know who has read this book (or rather series) before seeing the movie says the same thing,\"I can't believe they put Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher...I mean, the guy is supposed to be huge!\" But having never heard of Jack before watching the movie, I say Tom is a better Jack than Jack is. A guy that big and tall would have a much harder time melting into the crowd and being a drifter than plain old ordinary Tom. Plus, it seems more likely that 5 locals would think they could out-fight Tom Everyone I know who has read this book (or rather series) before seeing the movie says the same thing,\"I can't believe they put Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher...I mean, the guy is supposed to be huge!\" But having never heard of Jack before watching the movie, I say Tom is a better Jack than Jack is. A guy that big and tall would have a much harder time melting into the crowd and being a drifter than plain old ordinary Tom. Plus, it seems more likely that 5 locals would think they could out-fight Tom, than some jolly giant--so it makes a better plot point. Plus, I liked that at the climax, Tom had to really fight his way in...Jack made it look too easy...(almost no resistance from Vladimir, come on, where's the fun in a showdown?). Another better thing about the movie--they got rid of his posse. Way too many people in the climax of the book. It makes it seem more like a circus of misfits with people dialoging to themselves and running around without their shoes than a calculated attempt at rescue. They also cut out a lot of superfluous things Jack did to evade the cops. The good things they did keep--giving him a knife at the showdown, the dare at the shooting range, the quarter. I can't say I would recommend the book or the movie, but in this case the movie is better than the book. ...more Another good entry in the Jack Reacher story. While he has some misses, the regular hits are worth the strike-outs. I came to this one after the seeing the film, so it felt a litttle like reading a novelisation rather than reading the novel the film was based on. Suddenly things are a little bit spoiled for me: for a start, I'm imagining short-arsed Tom Cruise as Reacher which just isn't working for me (although he was a lot better in the movie than I'd been expecting), and knowing what's going Another good entry in the Jack Reacher story. While he has some misses, the regular hits are worth the strike-outs. I came to this one after the seeing the film, so it felt a litttle like reading a novelisation rather than reading the novel the film was based on. Suddenly things are a little bit spoiled for me: for a start, I'm imagining short-arsed Tom Cruise as Reacher which just isn't working for me (although he was a lot better in the movie than I'd been expecting), and knowing what's going to happen takes away a lot of the point of a Reacher novel. The movie and the novel are quite similar. They didn't seem to change much of substance (apart from Reacher's height). The biggest difference being that the movie felt a bit more contrived, whereas the novel seemed a lot more natural for Reacher. These are never going to be great works of literature, but they can be well crafted thrillers with the suspense of trying to work out what's going on faster than Reacher does. But this was still a good read even with that taken away. In fact, the last three have been getting better and better. Maybe Child's misses are behind him... ...more The first few pages were painful. Lots of self-consciously terse sentences as if worried about scaring off slow readers. A sample from page 13: \"The garage was always packed. He knew that. That was why they were extending it. They were doubling its size. It was used by shoppers. That was why it was quiet.\" But soon things pick up and the plot moves along swiftly and smoothly. Reacher is a bland but likeable protagonist, notable mainly for being a loner and an expert investigator, but you wouldn't The first few pages were painful. Lots of self-consciously terse sentences as if worried about scaring off slow readers. A sample from page 13: \"The garage was always packed. He knew that. That was why they were extending it. They were doubling its size. It was used by shoppers. That was why it was quiet.\" But soon things pick up and the plot moves along swiftly and smoothly. Reacher is a bland but likeable protagonist, notable mainly for being a loner and an expert investigator, but you wouldn't want to have to make conversation with him. The climax is exciting but I felt that the ending tied things up a little too neatly and the villain gave up a little too easily. Reacher explains to him how he'd done it and I half expected the reply \"And I'd have gotten away with it, too, if it weren't for you meddling kids!\" And I think the actual conspiracy as described is a little convoluted and unconvincing. For me the Zec's flashbacks to Soviet Russia were the most powerful sections, and I'd have liked more of that kind of background. ...more When the Jack Reacher movie trailer first came out, and I found out it was based on a book, I was intrigued enough to pick it up. Unfortunately, my logical brain assumed they would adapt the first book in the series, Killing Floor , and so I read the wrong book, as they took the screenplay from this book, the ninth in the series. Anyway, while I liked that book well enough ( review here ), this book showed how much the author has improved since writing it, his first published book. The plot was tig When the Jack Reacher movie trailer first came out, and I found out it was based on a book, I was intrigued enough to pick it up. Unfortunately, my logical brain assumed they would adapt the first book in the series, Killing Floor , and so I read the wrong book, as they took the screenplay from this book, the ninth in the series. Anyway, while I liked that book well enough ( review here ), this book showed how much the author has improved since writing it, his first published book. The plot was tighter, more suspenseful, and less derivative, the action scenes flowed better, and the pacing kept me engaged for the entirety of the novel. It also made it more clear in retrospect why this book was chosen to adapt into a movie, and not the first book in the series. ...more This is a book I came across while waiting in a hospital waiting room, I do not usually touch magazines or books at doctors or dentists but the title interested me so i picked it up, The couple of pages was this Bio of Jack Reacher this character though not extraordinary had specific skill set, Within the first couple of pages I was so engrossed in the story line and who Jack Reacher was as a person and what made him Him I did not hear my name being called, I can proudly say I am now a Lee child This is a book I came across while waiting in a hospital waiting room, I do not usually touch magazines or books at doctors or dentists but the title interested me so i picked it up, The couple of pages was this Bio of Jack Reacher this character though not extraordinary had specific skill set, Within the first couple of pages I was so engrossed in the story line and who Jack Reacher was as a person and what made him Him I did not hear my name being called, I can proudly say I am now a Lee child convert and a Jack Reacher fan, the writing style is unique and in depth it flows quite easily and leads you on an adventure that is intriguing and scary you get brought into the world of Jack and how he thinks feels and what motivates him he is such a diverse character you can't but help to feel what he feels and understand what motivates him to live how he lives and to sympathize with him when he wonders what has happened to me now do other people go through what I am going through. Jack Reacher literally comes off the page and into your heart you think with him you breathe with him you are living his life as it plays out on the page you bring the story to life in your mind and it is not until you have finished the book and put it down that the spell is broken and the book becomes a book again and you are separate and your daily life commences once more. ...more Left at work, I was reading this on breaks. Standard blah action book with the impossibly talented and cool hero. A clever set-up is wasted by too much reveal too quickly. The writing is terse but too long. I will explain, no, there is not time, let me sum up: If you think you are writing like Hemingway for your action book and you actually were, the book wouldn't be over 400 pages. He writes short sentences. Even fragments. But there are too many of them. Writes the next sentence. Notices a cat o Left at work, I was reading this on breaks. Standard blah action book with the impossibly talented and cool hero. A clever set-up is wasted by too much reveal too quickly. The writing is terse but too long. I will explain, no, there is not time, let me sum up: If you think you are writing like Hemingway for your action book and you actually were, the book wouldn't be over 400 pages. He writes short sentences. Even fragments. But there are too many of them. Writes the next sentence. Notices a cat on the windowsill. Shrugs, as if to say, yeah. The whole book. Like that. Lots of short sentences. They don't really say anything. Add any information. Examples like when they get to the hospital. Writes, they went in. No shit, they went into the place they were going? Well stop the presses! ...more I have a lot of books and not enough space so I read this only to get it off my bookshelf. I have 5 other Lee Childs and this book was going to decide the fate of the others. Do they stay or do they get traded in at the used book store? Not only am I keeping my 6 Lee Childs in my book collection (the wife and I have about 1200 books) I'm adding more Lee Childs (when I come across them at the used book store). This book is as Badass as Jack Reacher is. The excitement and suspense and action and m I have a lot of books and not enough space so I read this only to get it off my bookshelf. I have 5 other Lee Childs and this book was going to decide the fate of the others. Do they stay or do they get traded in at the used book store? Not only am I keeping my 6 Lee Childs in my book collection (the wife and I have about 1200 books) I'm adding more Lee Childs (when I come across them at the used book store). This book is as Badass as Jack Reacher is. The excitement and suspense and action and mystery never let up till the end. Highly recommended to those of you that like Action-Mystery-Suspense-Thrillers. ...more Spinechilling and intensely gripping this is one of those books that will make the hairs on your arms stand up, & which you are unable to put down!! Lee Child is one of the greatest writers of this genre, and who not only so deserves all the great acclaim that he receives but also is an author whose books deserve to be on your bookshelves. Often seen as an American writer, for he includes such idioms of the American thriller, his skill and accomplished ability as a master of his craft is appa Spinechilling and intensely gripping this is one of those books that will make the hairs on your arms stand up, & which you are unable to put down!! Lee Child is one of the greatest writers of this genre, and who not only so deserves all the great acclaim that he receives but also is an author whose books deserve to be on your bookshelves. Often seen as an American writer, for he includes such idioms of the American thriller, his skill and accomplished ability as a master of his craft is apparent. Jack Reacher is Child\u2019s 9th thriller based on this particular character, and similarly to the others within this series it does not disappoint! Full of excitement, drama and electric tension this is a story that you will loose yourself within; although one must be careful so as not to get swept away by the terrifying psychopathic killer\u2026 In a heartland city thrown into terror, Jack Reacher is soon at the scene of the crime where an accused gunman waits, asking for HIM. Jack is not always looking for trouble and tries to remain as inconspicuous as possible, however trouble sometimes inevitably seeks him out and in this case he is unable to avoid it. When a psychopathic killer and a ex-military cop are linked together, the cogs within Jack\u2019s brain begin to move as he endeavors to work out why. Lee Child\u2019s thrillers are inventive, with One Shot being totally original and distinctive in its storyline that similarly to authors such as Dick Francis for example, have a whole list of works that are each individual as the next one. Questions such as why Barr kills five people with six shots to then leave a trail of evidence behind, as well as then asking for Reacher. As you delve back into Jack Reacher\u2019s past one then is able to connect the bizarre happenings with other events, which ultimately piece together this puzzle. An example would be such as when Reacher was a military policeman, where politics at the time stopped him from pursuing Barr. Why now has Barr forgotten everything? Lee Child is a master of the perverse solution to the set of questions no-one dared to ever ask in quite that way before, and the macho yet sensitive Jack Reacher is one of the more interesting series characters in thrillers. One Shot is a smart set of puzzles which strings the reader along to false conclusions, and a sense of real danger. It also, like its hero, has a heart and is a book that you will totally love. *There is also a film tie-in edition of this book, for the release of the movie (starring Tom Cruise) that is out on Boxing Day 2012* ...more I picked this up because I needed something to read. I wasn\u2019t impressed with the first several pages because I had a difficult time sorting out who was speaking, but as I got into the book, I began to like the main character, Jack Reacher. An ex-military officer and policeman, he was cut loose under what I assume to be the Clinton administration. He\u2019s a drifter whose presence has been requested by a former Army Sniper that he caught committing murder in Iraq, but got off on technicalities. There I picked this up because I needed something to read. I wasn\u2019t impressed with the first several pages because I had a difficult time sorting out who was speaking, but as I got into the book, I began to like the main character, Jack Reacher. An ex-military officer and policeman, he was cut loose under what I assume to be the Clinton administration. He\u2019s a drifter whose presence has been requested by a former Army Sniper that he caught committing murder in Iraq, but got off on technicalities. There has been a sniper attack in a small Indiana town and James Barr is soon arrested in a rock-solid investigation. His sister, who works for a law firm, asks the lawyers to provide him with a defense, which they are loathe to do, given the fact that \u201ceverybody knows he murdered 5 people in cold blood.\u201d When interviewed, Barr asks for Reacher. Reacher reluctantly shows up, if only to bury James Barr because the sniper got away with murder before, which the military covered up. But, as he looks at things, they just don\u2019t add up for Reacher and soon HE becomes the subject of a police investigation. The novel held my attention, the characters were believable and the circumstances and mannerisms of Reacher don\u2019t make him super-human. Lee Child has come to the top of my list as a \u201cfavorite author\u201d along with the likes of James Lee Burke. He is a very compelling story-teller. ...more One Shot by Lee Child I almost didn\u2019t read this since I had seen the movie. In spite of the dubious decision to cast Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher I thought the movie was well done. Talk about a reach though, tiny little Tom Cruise for great big Jack Reacher, gotta wonder who made that decision. I\u2019m guessing they are not fond of reading. Regardless, this book is another Reacher justice book. Cross the wrong line and justice is in Reacher\u2019s knurly, rock hard hands. Once again Lee Child has crafted an One Shot by Lee Child I almost didn\u2019t read this since I had seen the movie. In spite of the dubious decision to cast Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher I thought the movie was well done. Talk about a reach though, tiny little Tom Cruise for great big Jack Reacher, gotta wonder who made that decision. I\u2019m guessing they are not fond of reading. Regardless, this book is another Reacher justice book. Cross the wrong line and justice is in Reacher\u2019s knurly, rock hard hands. Once again Lee Child has crafted an excellent action adventure. Jack Reacher\u2019s implacable Old Testament type of justice prevails. You might say he inflicted a crushing defeat to the bad guys. This story focuses on an immigrant band of villains who distain the soft American justice system. The story of intimidation and corruption could come from any major city news source. (That would have been newspaper a few years ago but I now feel I am in the minority with my fondness for perusing actual newsprint.) The movie was based on the book but as usual the book provides much more detail and fleshes out the vacuum left by the big screen. seeks his own brand of justice. As in all the Jack Reacher books I have read so far, there is non-stop action and lots of violence. I enjoyed the book and I recommend the book. Web Site: http://www.leechild.com/ ...more pg 120/485 (will take me about 11 hours) - Just did a 2 hour reading spree today, which is rare. Well, I'm not bored yet. He seems to know how to tell a story, or it's so much like the old detective tv shows I grew up with, it's pushing my buttons. My first Lee Child. My version has Tom Cruise on the cover. Get with it, Goodreads! pg 203/485 - What are these guys, mafia? pg 384/485 - Still having fun with it, except for the murders. Should finish it soon. I found the Tom Cruise version. I had to se pg 120/485 (will take me about 11 hours) - Just did a 2 hour reading spree today, which is rare. Well, I'm not bored yet. He seems to know how to tell a story, or it's so much like the old detective tv shows I grew up with, it's pushing my buttons. My first Lee Child. My version has Tom Cruise on the cover. Get with it, Goodreads! pg 203/485 - What are these guys, mafia? pg 384/485 - Still having fun with it, except for the murders. Should finish it soon. I found the Tom Cruise version. I had to search for the isbn number (I bet 'n' stands for 'number'). Tom Cruise is rumored to be shorter than Jack Reacher. pg 423/485 (466 for the non-Cruise version) The final fight is coming up. I excited. All done. Well done. Seems believable and well researched without being ponderous, and smart. I hope the movie has some of that smart narration like the 'Burn Notice' tv show. But it'll probably be a lot like another Mission Impossible, I'm guessing. This is only my first Lee Child. Maybe they're all exactly the same. Keeps you guessing about some things, and then ends quick. ...more I've only read a few of these Jack Reacher books, but, I'm going to read a bunch more. They are very good and an enjoyable read. Don't let the movie version of this put you off. The book is way better. And, Tom Cruise just didn't give the character enough. Reacher, is, to begin with, 6'-4\". Cruise might be 4'-6\", so, just not enough man to do it. Reacher is a commanding presence. Again, something that Cruise didn't give him. I'm hoping that this isn't the only book that Gunny Cash is in. A very go I've only read a few of these Jack Reacher books, but, I'm going to read a bunch more. They are very good and an enjoyable read. Don't let the movie version of this put you off. The book is way better. And, Tom Cruise just didn't give the character enough. Reacher, is, to begin with, 6'-4\". Cruise might be 4'-6\", so, just not enough man to do it. Reacher is a commanding presence. Again, something that Cruise didn't give him. I'm hoping that this isn't the only book that Gunny Cash is in. A very good character. One given his due in the movie, but, then, Robert Duvall always gives a great performance. Knowing the plot ahead of time was not a deterrent from getting an enjoyable read. In fact, the plot details were changed enough that there were still things that weren't seen coming. Anyway, we all know when we read either a crime novel or an action/adventure thriller, that the good guy will come out and beat the bad guy. Even when the good guy is a bad guy. Still going to happen. So, we know that Reacher will save the day. Doesn't take away from it knowing that, when de does it. Still, for me, there is the \"how is he going to do it this time?\" And, Reacher still manages to surprise me. ...more Number 9 in the series was a good one-- IF you aren't a fan and haven't read the others-- this might be one you need to wait until you have--but regardless you find Reacher at his wandering best self-- as he stumbles into more intrigue and mystery than any other crime solver would have to plot and plan to get into-- seems like these sort of things just seek him out from some power form above or something like that-- One Shot is the ninth book in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child and was recently made into a movie starring Tom Cruise. In the books Reacher is 6\u20195\u201d, 250 lbs, with a 50\u201d chest, blond hair and blue eyes \u2013 Tom Cruise? Not seeing it, but since I haven\u2019t seen the movie I can\u2019t complain too loudly \u2013 I\u2019ve heard that it actually works\u2026 I\u2019ll let you know what I think once I\u2019ve actually seen the movie! Anyway\u2026 Reacher is a former military policeman who now wanders the country freely \u2013 no vehicle, no lu One Shot is the ninth book in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child and was recently made into a movie starring Tom Cruise. In the books Reacher is 6\u20195\u201d, 250 lbs, with a 50\u201d chest, blond hair and blue eyes \u2013 Tom Cruise? Not seeing it, but since I haven\u2019t seen the movie I can\u2019t complain too loudly \u2013 I\u2019ve heard that it actually works\u2026 I\u2019ll let you know what I think once I\u2019ve actually seen the movie! Anyway\u2026 Reacher is a former military policeman who now wanders the country freely \u2013 no vehicle, no luggage, no home, no credit cards \u2013 and manages to get entrenched in one disastrous situation after another. Not only is he a really large and well-built and apparently good-looking guy, he is smart, resourceful, and does not hesitate when doling out justice according to his own moral code. Much of his world is black and white with very little room for gray, he always sticks up for the innocent and the downtrodden, he always gets his guy (often brutally) and he always saves the day before he moves on and leaves another love-struck woman behind him. While the books are mysteries, they are heavy on the action and the suspense, not simple whodunits. The stories in the series are smart, suspenseful and fast-paced with just enough humor and romance thrown in to keep all that action from getting boring. In One Shot six shots are fired from a parking garage into a crowded street leaving five people dead. The police quickly gather a watertight case against James Barr, a former military sniper. Barr denies his guilt and only asks for one thing \u2013 Jack Reacher. Reacher is already on his way having seen the story on the news, but he and Barr have a history, and he is no friend of Barr\u2019s. When Barr is severely beaten while in prison, Reacher, Barr\u2019s attorney, his sister, a reporter, and a private investigator will have to find out what actually happened and bring about Reacher\u2019s own brand of justice. Like all Reacher novels that I\u2019ve read, this one keeps you guessing (who\u2019s the traitor, what part did Barr play, why did any of this happen?) and in suspense until the very end (even though you know \u2013 logically \u2013 that Reacher isn\u2019t going to die \u2013 there ARE more Reacher books!). If you like action and suspense in your mysteries, this series is definitely worth checking out at your local library (and if you don\u2019t like it they have an excellent return policy!). See more on my blog at www.watchingthewords.com ! ...more Quite a few people didn\u2019t like Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher in the movie. Personally I don\u2019t think he did such a bad job though. Sure, he doesn\u2019t look at all like the Jack Reacher described in the books. His body size, his style (or lack there-of) and his general appearance, none of those match up to the character Lee Child so carefully crafted into existence. However, it is a highly entertaining movie and that is what many critics seem to forget these days. Movies are essentially made to entertai Quite a few people didn\u2019t like Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher in the movie. Personally I don\u2019t think he did such a bad job though. Sure, he doesn\u2019t look at all like the Jack Reacher described in the books. His body size, his style (or lack there-of) and his general appearance, none of those match up to the character Lee Child so carefully crafted into existence. However, it is a highly entertaining movie and that is what many critics seem to forget these days. Movies are essentially made to entertain us and occasionally provoke deeper thoughts, reflection and discussion. What\u2019s more, this movie is not just entertaining it is based on possibly one of the best books in the series. \u201cOne Shot\u201d is a great introduction into the world of Reacher. Albeit the ninth book in the series, if anyone wanted to start reading, this would be a great way to start. Funnily enough I had only just finished this book a couple of weeks before I saw the movie. I loved both. A guy Reacher used to know in the army, called Barr is seemingly wrongly accused of killing a number of people from a parking lot using a sniper rifle. When caught he utters \u201cGet Reacher\u201d. Reacher is not convinced that Barr is not the killer, but the chase begins to find out what actually happened. A great read and highly recommended. ...more Another Holiday, another reacher. Perfect fayre really. Despite knowing exactly what you are going to get - this is very well put together. I cant really use the term thriller, as you know who will win and to an extent, how he will win (drink some coffee, shag a female character, out fight/shoot the baddies). Child puts together a hollywood story that has a good ending, when Reacher - and chums - storm the bad guys thermal camera protected isolated farmhouse. And reacher is armed only with a knif Another Holiday, another reacher. Perfect fayre really. Despite knowing exactly what you are going to get - this is very well put together. I cant really use the term thriller, as you know who will win and to an extent, how he will win (drink some coffee, shag a female character, out fight/shoot the baddies). Child puts together a hollywood story that has a good ending, when Reacher - and chums - storm the bad guys thermal camera protected isolated farmhouse. And reacher is armed only with a knife! anyway, I am getting away with myself. The early part of the story is very well put together. We have a crime (sniper shootings in an american city) and a main suspect who calls for reacher. Reacher takes a while to turn up. When he does, the story is not clear cut at all. We expect the sniper to be innocent, but he has done this before. Cue a complex, but well put together story of Military cover ups and all not as it seems with the current shootings. All is revealed - yes its far fecthed, yes the villians are cut out russian mobsters with no explanation of how they got a multi million business from the kulags but an genuinely good ending. Child is the Ronson of thriller writing. You get what it says on the tin. Excellent stuff. ...more The premise: A sniper shoots five people in a plaza in Indianapolis. A veritable mountain of forensic evidence leads to the summary arrest of James Barr. Reacher knows him. He once investigated a similar sniper killing Barr had perpetrated while a soldier in Kuwait City. For various reasons, the matter was shoved under the carpet by the Army. Reacher had vowed to put Barr six feet under if he ever killed again. There's just one hitch: is Barr as guilty as he seems? I suppose this wouldn't be a pro The premise: A sniper shoots five people in a plaza in Indianapolis. A veritable mountain of forensic evidence leads to the summary arrest of James Barr. Reacher knows him. He once investigated a similar sniper killing Barr had perpetrated while a soldier in Kuwait City. For various reasons, the matter was shoved under the carpet by the Army. Reacher had vowed to put Barr six feet under if he ever killed again. There's just one hitch: is Barr as guilty as he seems? I suppose this wouldn't be a proper Reacher book if at some point Reacher didn't come under suspicion for a murder or two. It is the sine qua non of the series. The authorities have it half right. Reacher is a stone cold killer. But he just kills the bad guys. Does he ever! Child does a great job here with a story that involves a lot of forensic evidence without ever becoming dry. He does his job in that he makes you, the reader, feel smart, because you'll find yourself asking all the right questions before Reacher gets there. A very good entry in the series, but still not as good as \"Echo Burning\". ...more ONE SHOT (Pub. 2005) is Lee Child's ninth novel and my favorite book in the Jack Reacher series. I love the intricately woven facets surrounding a great 'who done it'. Lee layers interesting plot points with subtle but constant tension, and all in a wonderfully succinct way. Reacher is at his absolute best in this story. He's called into a heinous crime scene in a backwards way. The sniper arrested for killing six people in a public courtyard tells the cops, \"You got the wrong guy.\" Then he says, ONE SHOT (Pub. 2005) is Lee Child's ninth novel and my favorite book in the Jack Reacher series. I love the intricately woven facets surrounding a great 'who done it'. Lee layers interesting plot points with subtle but constant tension, and all in a wonderfully succinct way. Reacher is at his absolute best in this story. He's called into a heinous crime scene in a backwards way. The sniper arrested for killing six people in a public courtyard tells the cops, \"You got the wrong guy.\" Then he says, \"Get Reacher for me.\"' Reacher's reluctance to help the accused sniper is overshadowed by his certainty that something is not right. I love the way Reacher methodically and ingeniously unwinds the DA's airtight case. Lee manages to give us an intriguing mystery along with a couple scoops of romance and some cool factoids while he makes Reacher fight and think in his classic Reacher way. Good stuff - go buy it! ...more Jack Reacher investigates what seems to be a cast-iron case. A sniper shooting in a public square. The evidence against the suspect is overwhelming. Reacher cracks it. I really enjoy the Reacher series but this one slipped a little ... just a little, mind you, which still leaves it way ahead of most of what is churned out by the thriller factories. Without giving too much away, my gripes involve Reacher riding his luck far too much in this tale - any one of a number of plausible possibilities co Jack Reacher investigates what seems to be a cast-iron case. A sniper shooting in a public square. The evidence against the suspect is overwhelming. Reacher cracks it. I really enjoy the Reacher series but this one slipped a little ... just a little, mind you, which still leaves it way ahead of most of what is churned out by the thriller factories. Without giving too much away, my gripes involve Reacher riding his luck far too much in this tale - any one of a number of plausible possibilities could have removed him from the investigation. Also, the end involved Reacher being overly violent, which is out of character - he usually just does what's necessary. Don't let this put you off - it's still worth a read. ...more I saw the movie before I started reading the series so I wasn't too excited about this book. But it ended being way better than the movie (as it's usually the case.) This is probably the best investigative work that I've seen Reacher done. He followed the clues, used his expertise and didn't let himself be blinded by smoking mirrors. There are tons of women in this case - you know there's an obligatory hookup...this time there were two! I always think of Reacher as the Earthly version of James T. I saw the movie before I started reading the series so I wasn't too excited about this book. But it ended being way better than the movie (as it's usually the case.) This is probably the best investigative work that I've seen Reacher done. He followed the clues, used his expertise and didn't let himself be blinded by smoking mirrors. There are tons of women in this case - you know there's an obligatory hookup...this time there were two! I always think of Reacher as the Earthly version of James T. Kirk...sleeping with a different women in every town. :) Looking forward to the next book in the series! ...more \"The thing is when I was in the service I was a hell of a good investigator. I was maybe the best they ever had.\" Jack Reacher is definitely a great investigator! He picks apart the evidence until he is satisfied with the result. This book has plenty of fun action and a deep / complicated plot that makes you turn the page. The plot line is basically the same as the movie with some major changes to the timeline of events ask extra characters. I am slightly gutted that the car chase scene wasn't i \"The thing is when I was in the service I was a hell of a good investigator. I was maybe the best they ever had.\" Jack Reacher is definitely a great investigator! He picks apart the evidence until he is satisfied with the result. This book has plenty of fun action and a deep / complicated plot that makes you turn the page. The plot line is basically the same as the movie with some major changes to the timeline of events ask extra characters. I am slightly gutted that the car chase scene wasn't in the book but other than that it was a thoroughly good read :) ...more DNF at about half way through. I tried, but 'm done. Never gonna finish this one, it's as boring as heck and life's too short. Gonna watch the movie instead. I dont like the casting of Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher - 6ft 5in and 250lbs - Tom Cruise is about 5ft 7in and about 140lbs dripping wet!! That said, he always makes a good film. DNF.", "Title": "One Shot"},
