{"Comments": "I somehow missed reading this book, which is the 3rd novel in <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A>\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series and as I loved this series, decided that I wanted to know more about Paige Winterbourne. Synopsis: Leader of the American Coven, guardian to the preteen daughter of a black witch \u2026 it\u2019s not the lifestyle twenty-three year-old Paige Winterbourne imagined for herself, and it\u2019s wreaking hell on her social life.<---F> But she\u2019s up to the challenge</---F>. When half-demon Leah O\u2019Donnell returns to fight f I somehow missed reading this book, which is the 3rd novel in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series and as I loved this series, decided that I wanted to know more about Paige Winterbourne. Synopsis: Leader of the American Coven, guardian to the preteen daughter of a black witch \u2026 it\u2019s not the lifestyle twenty-three year-old Paige Winterbourne imagined for herself, and it\u2019s wreaking hell on her social life. But she\u2019s up to the challenge. When half-demon Leah O\u2019Donnell returns to fight for custody of Savannah, Paige is ready. She\u2019s not as prepared for the team of supernatural\u2019s Leah brings with her, including a powerful sorcerer who claims to be Savannah\u2019s father. Cut off from her friends,<---M> accused of witchcraft</---M>, Satanism, necromancy, murder\u2026Paige quickly realizes that keeping Savannah could mean losing everything else. Has she finally found a battle she isn\u2019t willing to fight? The first two books Bitten https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1... and Stolen https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1... concentrated on Elena Michaels, the only female werewolf in the world, and now we have Paige\u2019s story, we met before. Paige, a young witch, who has inherited the leadership of the American Coven of witches after her mother was murdered, is living a quiet life in a small town and is the guardian of a teenage witch, Savannah. When dark forces try to take Savannah away from her care, Paige and Savannah will have to fight the supernatural powers that are determined to do anything to get Savannah into their clutches. The author has created likeable and endearing characters and it comes across in Paige, Savannah and Lucas, a sorcerer, who helps them and who also is attracted to Paige. Even though he dislikes witches and struggles to gain Paige\u2019s trust, there\u2019s a strong bond between the two\u2026..and the way their relationship was handled really well. An exciting, exhilarating and fun read\u2026filled with witch and demon lore, engaging characters and a fast-paced story-line This is such a fascinating world where clairvoyants, demons, humans, witches, necromancers, sorcerers, shamans, vampires, and werewolves live secretly in a modern human world. I am such a fan of this series\u2026. ...more Well, what can I say? I'm definitely hooked! Even more than what I want to admit. Maybe it is because I was so sure I would not like this series. Of course no complains from me as this series turned out to be a wonderful surprise which I was definitely not expecting.Even though in this installment we get things from Paige's POV, which I thought would be extremely boring as I did not liked her in the previous book, we still get to read about this same world which is captivating me little by littl Well, what can I say? I'm definitely hooked! Even more than what I want to admit. Maybe it is because I was so sure I would not like this series. Of course no complains from me as this series turned out to be a wonderful surprise which I was definitely not expecting.Even though in this installment we get things from Paige's POV, which I thought would be extremely boring as I did not liked her in the previous book, we still get to read about this same world which is captivating me little by little. I like that in a paranormal series, to start book by book and get to know a bit more of that new world with each new installment we get to read. And I definitely love it when we get to read about a lot of different paranormal species in a same series.This installment is specifically about witches and sorcerers, but we still get glimpses about the other species as well. I thought it would't be interesting to read about them, but it ended up being original and refreshing. The author made a terrific work with the world building and the description of this two species, so elaborated that I just got sucked into the story. Read the whole book in a day, couldn't put it down. I'm just not giving 5 stars still because the endings in this series are always incomplete, not exactly cliff hangers, just torturing little details you wanna know about but you never do. As we know there are still many more books so I am not worried about it, but I am a very curious person to be completely satisfied with a book without having all the information explained at the end. I can understand cliff hangers because they are about situations and actions, but in this case we just know somethings will come in the future and we just have to wait for the other books to see it.Just wanna clarify that from now on I am a fan! Just bring me more books because I wont be able to stop with this series for a while. ...more \u201cAccording to Cortez, the Cabals had strict policies against employing any supernatural being that might mistake them for lunch.\u201d I have to admit that after the first two books through Elena's point of view, I wasn't excited about switching points of view and diving into Paige's head. Willing to give it a shot, after taking the dive I didn't want to emerge again. Paige is awesome - while I may still like Elena a wee bit better, her story was just as good. Paige and Savannah have been living toge \u201cAccording to Cortez, the Cabals had strict policies against employing any supernatural being that might mistake them for lunch.\u201d I have to admit that after the first two books through Elena's point of view, I wasn't excited about switching points of view and diving into Paige's head. Willing to give it a shot, after taking the dive I didn't want to emerge again. Paige is awesome - while I may still like Elena a wee bit better, her story was just as good. Paige and Savannah have been living together since the horrors that took place during Stolen, and not only are some not happy about it *cough* snooty coven *cough*, there is now a custody battle brewing that involves the super powerful Cabal and former villain Leah. Help comes from an unlikely place in the form of Lucas, a new intro for the series and someone I hope sticks around. There's some legal play going down but it's mainly a battle of the magic, set ups and luck. The office scene with the lawyer ending his career was kind of epic. Paige grinded on my nerves some by not getting over some of her paranoia toward Lucas, but once she thaws out she's great. Loved the development of their bond. Lucas is described as a little generic and scrawny; he speaks with a lawyer's spiel and uptight manner for most of the book, but this just makes him more endearing. He's passionate about causes, he's protected for the weak, he's trying to make his way in the world. Savannah acts like a pre-teen girl which is annoying at least half the time. The book wins with its storyline because there are different forces pushing against them, plenty of tension, action is kept strong, and personal relationships better the characters actually keep me caring. If I had to say a bad thing, it'd be Paige's naivitiy with falling into some of the traps was annoying. The funeral home, come on! If you've shied away from reading more of the series because you don't want head-swapping, I assure you Paige's story is filled with magic, dimension, and all sorts of Urban Fantasy goodies. ...more \u2605\u2605 <+++>Dime Store Magic</+++> is the third installment in Kelley Armstrong 's urban fantasy series titled Women of the Otherworld . I loved the shifter characters featured in the first two books: Bitten and Stolen . In the second book: Stolen , I tolerated the witches that were introduced and seemed to slowly but surely take over the plot. Now in the third book, the shifters appear to be totally absent - this story is only about the witches. I'm not a happy reader right now since the only reason I follow this \u2605\u2605\u00bd <+++>Dime Store Magic</+++> is the third installment in Kelley Armstrong 's urban fantasy series titled Women of the Otherworld . I loved the shifter characters featured in the first two books: Bitten and Stolen . In the second book: Stolen , I tolerated the witches that were introduced and seemed to slowly but surely take over the plot. Now in the third book, the shifters appear to be totally absent - this story is only about the witches. I'm not a happy reader right now since the only reason I follow this series is for the shifter pack. However... Even though I want to thoroughly enjoy my temper tantrum, I must take a moment to say Dime Store Magic wasn't a bad book. I wish it was so I would be justified in hating it but to be honest the story was fairly engaging. Needless to say, I didn't enjoy the characters much at all, and if this series continues with the witches then I may have to drop it so please tell me that Elena, Clay, Jeremy, and the rest of the family will be coming back...please!!!! My favorite quote: \"She threw open her arms, embraced me, planted a kiss on my lips, then another on my left breast. I yelped...I grabbed the nearest discarded robe. \"Could you please put this-- Could you all put these-- Could you get dressed, please?\" The woman only bestowed a serene smile on me. \"We are as the Goddess requires.\" \"The Goddess requires you to be naked on my lawn?\" \"We aren't naked child, we're skyclad.\"...\"That's --uh--very-- I mean--\" I stammered. Be polite, I reminded myself. Witches should respect Wiccans, even if we didn't quite get the whole Goddesss-Worship thing. I knew some Wiccans, and they were very nice people, though I must admit they'd never arrived in my backyard naked and kissed my tits before.\u201d ...more Been four years since I read the previous book. So, even though I don't remember the details, I do remember the feeling after finishing Bitten and Stolen (<---B>Books 1 & 2</---B>). Underwhelmed pretty much covers it. For some reason that I can't really explain, I wasn't all that into Elena and Clay's story the way that most fans of the series were. I liked the writing, the world building, the action, but not the characters. I didn't like them but I didn't dislike them either, I just couldn't bring myself Been four years since I read the previous book. So, even though I don't remember the details, I do remember the feeling after finishing Bitten and Stolen (Books 1 & 2). Underwhelmed pretty much covers it. For some reason that I can't really explain, I wasn't all that into Elena and Clay's story the way that most fans of the series were. I liked the writing, the world building, the action, but not the characters. I didn't like them but I didn't dislike them either, I just couldn't bring myself to care about what happens to them. So it was with a heavy heart that I picked this one up, considering that most readers found it to be a lesser instalment in the series after the werewolf stories. And what do you know? I loved it. Yeap, the odd one out once again, forever alone, call it what you want but I loved Dime Store Magic. The funny thing is that the MC, Paige, was in the previous book as well and I can't even remember her. I loved her in this one. She's tough, she's smart, she's funny, she's stubborn, she's lost, she's the girl next door and one that most readers will be able to relate to. Savannah, well... She's 13 and a major pain in the ass. A total brat and not in the endearing term of the word. Reading about the two of them trying to understand each other, hell, to communicate, was frustrating and the same time totally understandable. Considering Savannah's upbringing and the events of the previous book, it would have been completely unrealistic to have it any other way. Lucas... *sigh* I am alone in this one but I have a crush on him. His looks are average (Paige says that you wouldn't remember him 5 minutes after meeting him), he is a total nerd, he talks like Sheldon from the Big Bang Theory, he can't throw a punch to save his life, but he is so ADORABLE. He wants to make the world a better place and he offers his services to people in need (something like the cloaked crusader in a permanent Clark Kent disguise, according to Paige). Keep in mind that this is an UF, not a PNR, so don't expect much on romance. Paige and Lucas do fall for each other, but that's a very minor part of the story and it happens well past the first half of the book. What you can expect is a good written story, with much more information on the creatures of the Otherworld, lots of action, some funny moments and little romance thrown in to spice things up. ...more I haven't yet read Armstrong's \"Bitten\" or \"Stolen\" so had to pay very close attention to the first few chapters to get the feel of this world and figure out who was who and what they had to do with the current story but now that I've got most of it figured out the pages are flying. Paige is tough and gutsy and vulnerable as well. And I'm digging the gore, the suspense, the wise-a*s humor and the tension (sexual and otherwise). Kind of reminds of very early Laurell K. Hamilton before she became I haven't yet read Armstrong's \"Bitten\" or \"Stolen\" so had to pay very close attention to the first few chapters to get the feel of this world and figure out who was who and what they had to do with the current story but now that I've got most of it figured out the pages are flying. Paige is tough and gutsy and vulnerable as well. And I'm digging the gore, the suspense, the wise-a*s humor and the tension (sexual and otherwise). Kind of reminds of very early Laurell K. Hamilton before she became sex obsessed to the point where a coherent plot was no longer an option ;) The action is pretty much non-stop and the secret world of witches and cabals working behind the modern day world is well done and a nice take on things. The fact that they have to hide their abilities from normal folks is a nice touch and adds a touch of realism to the plot but I'm a little annoyed at the author for taking such obvious joy at poking fun at modern day Wiccans in the \"They Aren't Naked, they're Skyclad.\" chapter. Her Wiccans all seem to be a bit loony and stereotypical . . . This was an enjoyable read with some great action, humor, romance and characterization but at times I feel like I was missing something when past events were mentioned in passing and probably should have read this series in order. ...more A really good read. I read Bitten a few months ago and gave it four stars, but I didn't continue with the series. I'm not sure why because I really did enjoy Bitten. I have a feeling it was one of those times where I picked up the first book and I had a pile of other stuff to read and I just never circled back to it. I enjoyed Stolen the second book in the series, although not as much as the first. I was skeptical about Dime Store Magic because I didn't like Paige when I encountered her in the second book. I felt b I read Bitten a few months ago and gave it four stars, but I didn't continue with the series. I'm not sure why because I really did enjoy Bitten. I have a feeling it was one of those times where I picked up the first book and I had a pile of other stuff to read and I just never circled back to it. I enjoyed Stolen the second book in the series, although not as much as the first. I was skeptical about Dime Store Magic because I didn't like Paige when I encountered her in the second book. I felt bad for her at times, but my feelings about Paige were much like Clay's about Paige. I was annoyed she was around interfering with the series. Dime Store Magic revolves around a custody dispute over a young witch. Most of the book is an idiot plot, as in the main character has to be an idiot for the plot to move forward. Paige makes the wrong choice at every turn and walks into some very obvious traps. I can forgive a lot of it, but when she gets a phone call requesting she go to the funeral home where a man she's been accused of murdering is being waked... who would say 'gee golly okay, let's go.' No one. There was absolutely no reason the paperwork she was going to retrieve couldn't be sent to her via UPS. She walked into a trap that was built off a situation that had ALSO been a trap. Paige is an idiot and you have to spend 400 plus pages with her. I didn't think she was a particularly good guardian and I didn't have a lot of interest in the coven side story so it was really hard for me to be emotionally invested in any of this. A lot of universe rules were broken in this book, including characters risking exposure they normally wouldn't risk. There's a whole scene at a funeral home that's totally implausible given the world building and the fact that Kelley Armstrong's universe is a hidden universe, meaning it exists within the one we all occupy. It's not so hidden with corpses flying around. I'm sorry, but I can only buy hidden universe stories if the hiding is taken seriously by the occupants of the world. The romance is lackluster... the big sex scene was weird! I'm all for smut! I'm all for magic smut! I thought the sex scenes in Bitten and Stolen were well written... but this? Paige and Lucas didn't have a lot of chemistry to begin with and then when they finally sleep together it's all magic fireballs and radios. Also, I've never had a man stop kissing me when sex was fast approaching so he could like tune the radio station. I get what Armstrong was trying to do here. She had magical people, she had the opportunity to write a magical sex scene, but I just wasn't sold on how it happened or when it happened... I was mostly embarrassed to be reading it. Unfortunately I was doing therapeutic book buying when I picked up Kelley's books. I own them all. I don't know if this means I'm going to skip the next one to preserve myself, take a long break between three and four, or if I'm just going to swallow the fourth book as a loss and move onto five. ...more At the end of Stolen , Paige took custody of Savannah--an arrangement that promised to be entertaining as at age 22, Paige was only roughly ten years her senior. In Dime Store Magic , we fast-forward nine months. Things between Paige and Savannah are stable, but not comfortable; they're still trying to understand each other. This is complicated when Paige receives a summons to appear for a custody challenge. From Leah. Paige shows up only to find that the challenge is really coming from Kristof Na At the end of Stolen , Paige took custody of Savannah--an arrangement that promised to be entertaining as at age 22, Paige was only roughly ten years her senior. In Dime Store Magic , we fast-forward nine months. Things between Paige and Savannah are stable, but not comfortable; they're still trying to understand each other. This is complicated when Paige receives a summons to appear for a custody challenge. From Leah. Paige shows up only to find that the challenge is really coming from Kristof Nast, Savannah's biological father, a sorcerer and heir of the Nast Cabal. Not long after this, Lucas Cortez, heir of yet another Cabel, shows up on Paige's doorstep offering legal representation. Havoc ensues. This is not my favorite in the Otherworld series. Lucas and Paige lack the passion of Clay and Elena--aside from a comment Savannah makes to Paige insinuating Lucas likes her, I didn't realize they were seriously interested until they suddenly jumped each other. And while it is completely understandable that Savannah is having serious issues for various, valid reasons, the fact remains, in this book she is a B-R-A-T. A temper-tantrum throwing little hellion. And not at all in an amusing way. Still, it was an entertaining, quick read. ...more The thing about Kelley Armstrong is that while I didn't love the main characters or even the story line here, her writing is completely addictive and her world building amazing. I'm enthralled by her Otherwold and in awe of her ability to tell the reader so much about it without ever presenting it in an info dump or mind-numbingly confusing way. That said, Paige is naive, boring and slightly TSTL. Savannah is interesting. And as for Lucas Cortez... see the description for Paige. The issue I have The thing about Kelley Armstrong is that while I didn't love the main characters or even the story line here, her writing is completely addictive and her world building amazing. I'm enthralled by her Otherwold and in awe of her ability to tell the reader so much about it without ever presenting it in an info dump or mind-numbingly confusing way. That said, Paige is naive, boring and slightly TSTL. Savannah is interesting. And as for Lucas Cortez... see the description for Paige. The issue I have with Paige is that while she seems like a fantastic person to know in real life, for an urban fantasy heroine\u2026 she just doesn\u2019t cut it. And the entire way the villains and mystery played out seemed like an episode of Scooby Doo gone awry. Even with unlikable uninteresting characters, Armstrong had me hooked the entire novel. Perhaps it's the ex-Catholic schoolgirl in me, but I loved all the witchy rituals and candle burning and whatnot. I am in love with Armstrong\u2019s story telling ability. In fact, Dime Store Magic would have gotten four stars from me if it weren\u2019t for (view spoiler) [ the beyond awkward sex scene between Paige and Lucas. When I heard it, it made me LOL for real ~ although I\u2019m sure that wasn\u2019t Armstrong\u2019s intended reaction to the scene! :) (hide spoiler) ] ...more I absolutely adore Paige and identify with her purely. If you haven\u2019t read the first two books of this series, you need to turn that little butt right around and march to your library and check out Elena\u2019s books Bitten and Stolen. Even though these stories are not always told by the same person, there is a flow to them. Like, for example, Paige and Savannah were not only introduced in the second book, Stolen, but they also rely heavily on the set up into this story. Paige is a young twenty-somethi I absolutely adore Paige and identify with her purely. If you haven\u2019t read the first two books of this series, you need to turn that little butt right around and march to your library and check out Elena\u2019s books Bitten and Stolen. Even though these stories are not always told by the same person, there is a flow to them. Like, for example, Paige and Savannah were not only introduced in the second book, Stolen, but they also rely heavily on the set up into this story. Paige is a young twenty-something witch who is taking care of a tween named Savannah. Both of their mother\u2019s died (reasons in the last book, Stolen) and they are constantly trying to make it work. Well, here comes a Volo (telekinetic) half-demon cop named Leah who just really wants Savannah for some reason. Seriously I don\u2019t know why she is so bent out of shape about her. She wants custody over the girl. But she isn\u2019t a relative or anything. In order to lay her claim, Leah goes and finds Savannah's dad. For some reason she believes that it is a sorcerer who is a big bad business lawyer, Nast Cabal. The Cabal thing is just too much for me to explain for you. It's kind of like Wolfram and Hart (TV show Angel, Buffyverse) except they are all sorcerers and family members? There are different branches for each family? You\u2019ll have to read to find out exactly who they are. There are satanic rituals, house burnings, running from the police, grave digging, conjuring demons, unexplained deaths and the dead walking in this book. The story itself is literally the most entertaining thing. You won\u2019t get bored. Now, the writing on the other hand\u2026 is literally better. Armstrong does not disappoint when it comes to writing in a way that makes you laugh and makes you feel for the characters she wants you to. Paige is nothing like Elena, yet she is everything and more. I love Elena and Paige for different reasons and I am happy that more than one character has been the center of a book. Not to mention Lucas is 100% legit. Get into this series if you like risky things, gore, horror, supernatural, twist, and nonstop wonderfulness. WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more From a blog post I wrote in 2006: I found a new author I really dig. Kelley Armstrong has a series of books out with supernatural characters. I whipped through Bitten, Stolen, Dime Store Magic, Industrial Magic, Haunted and Broken in no time at all. The first two and the last books have as their main character the lone female werewolf in the world. The third and fourth book have a young witch as the focal point and the fifth one features the story of a dead (but ghostly) witch. These were really go From a blog post I wrote in 2006: I found a new author I really dig. Kelley Armstrong has a series of books out with supernatural characters. I whipped through Bitten, Stolen, Dime Store Magic, Industrial Magic, Haunted and Broken in no time at all. The first two and the last books have as their main character the lone female werewolf in the world. The third and fourth book have a young witch as the focal point and the fifth one features the story of a dead (but ghostly) witch. These were really good. My favorite topics, sex and violence, are in there but there's also a lot about personal relationships and a well developed world that the characters reside in. The books share the same characters throughout. The stories and characters actually show growth which is nice. I'm really growing tired of series where the characters seem to be stuck at a certain point and it all feels like just more of the same (think Anita Blake). Good stuff here, check it out. ...more Jesus God, this book is boring! It's one long explication of a magical quality that doesn't exist, explained by people I wouldn't allow in my home twice (I don't invite anybody back who lacks a personality). When the book takes a break from that, it's canting morality at me. I just cannot tell you how dull it is to listen to a person agonizing over the morality of a non-issue. And I most certainly do not recommend that you find out for yourself by reading this tripe. People with fully developed Jesus God, this book is boring! It's one long explication of a magical quality that doesn't exist, explained by people I wouldn't allow in my home twice (I don't invite anybody back who lacks a personality). When the book takes a break from that, it's canting morality at me. I just cannot tell you how dull it is to listen to a person agonizing over the morality of a non-issue. And I most certainly do not recommend that you find out for yourself by reading this tripe. People with fully developed personalities know right from wrong and can pin it down for the rest of us in seconds. ...more I did a re-read of Dime Store Magic for one of my 2015 reading challenges. I can\u2019t believe that it\u2019s already been ten years since I first read this book. After the events of Stolen , Paige Winterbourne has taken in thirteen year old <---C>Savannah Levine</---C> whose mother recently died. Savannah is a powerful witch for her age, but impulsive. It\u2019s a dangerous combination that has the Nast Cabal (the supernatural equivalent of the mafia) tearing Paige\u2019s life apart in a bid for custody. As her life continues t I did a re-read of Dime Store Magic for one of my 2015 reading challenges. I can\u2019t believe that it\u2019s already been ten years since I first read this book. After the events of Stolen , Paige Winterbourne has taken in thirteen year old Savannah Levine whose mother recently died. Savannah is a powerful witch for her age, but impulsive. It\u2019s a dangerous combination that has the Nast Cabal (the supernatural equivalent of the mafia) tearing Paige\u2019s life apart in a bid for custody. As her life continues to crumble around her, Paige is forced to accept assistance from Lucas Cortez, a young lawyer with his own motives for helping. I decided to read Dime Store Magic again because I didn\u2019t give Paige a fair shot the first time around. When I first read this, it was immediately after devouring the first two books in the series, which feature werewolf Elena Michaels. I had adored Elena and wasn\u2019t excited to discover that the next book's narrator was going to be the twenty-something witch from Stolen . (Especially, since I hadn\u2019t cared for Paige in that story.) While I had ended-up enjoying Dime Store Magic on my first reading, I still thought Paige was a little lack luster. It wasn\u2019t until later in the series that I got into her and Lucas, as characters. So, I\u2019m glad I did a re-read as I was able to appreciate them more this time around. The most interesting thing about going back to this book was seeing just how far Armstrong has come with her characters and the world. There were several moments in the story where I thought Paige, Lucas, and the ideas behind witches were rather shaky and clich\u00e9d. It felt like Armstrong wasn\u2019t sure where she wanted to take the characters at this point in the series. Despite this, I still enjoyed the book enough that I might also re-read Industrial Magic . Overall, my grade for this book didn\u2019t change. I would recommend Dime Store Magic to fans of the series, but I don\u2019t think I would suggest you start off with this book. If you\u2019re looking to get into the Women of the Otherworld series, I would suggest starting out with Bitten . ...more \"Dime Store Magic\" is the third book in Women of the Otherworld series. It is narrated from the POV of Paige, a Coven witch introduced in the second book of the series. The story is centered on Savannah, a powerful teenage witch who is taken care of by Paige. A custody battle ensues when Savannah's sorcerer father tries to bring the girl to his Cabal. He does it with the help of telekinetic half-demon Leah, also introduced in \"Stolen.\" Paige quickly finds herself overwhelmed by both legal and ma \"Dime Store Magic\" is the third book in Women of the Otherworld series. It is narrated from the POV of Paige, a Coven witch introduced in the second book of the series. The story is centered on Savannah, a powerful teenage witch who is taken care of by Paige. A custody battle ensues when Savannah's sorcerer father tries to bring the girl to his Cabal. He does it with the help of telekinetic half-demon Leah, also introduced in \"Stolen.\" Paige quickly finds herself overwhelmed by both legal and magical assaults on her and Savannah and is forced to resort to the help of an unlikely ally - a sorcerer lawyer Lucas Cortez. Once again, Armstrong creates a very convincing world of witches and sorcerers, Covens and Cabals, spells and rituals. I thought the hierarchies, the structures of the societies of the two races, even politics and history were very well thought out and written, and yet for some reason I wasn't taken by this new world as much as I was by the werewolf world in \"Bitten\" and \"Stolen.\" Maybe it has something to do with overwhelming presence of elderly women and lack of strong sexy men, maybe I prefer violent cut-throat world of werewolves more, or maybe witches are simply not my thing. The romance part also lacked. Paige's love interest Lucas is a nice enough guy, but nothing more. He is rather uptight, proper, and a bit goody-goody for my taste. This book certainly missed the passion and drama of Clay/Elena relationship. Plus, the entire romance part was very secondary to the main story line and introduced almost as an afterthought. I will continue reading the series, maybe I will warm up to Paige and Lucas in the next book about them. Also, I am curious to see what will come out of Savannah's character. Right now she is one spoiled and snarky 13-year old. I think she will make a great protagonist in the future books (I heard she'll narrate books 11 and 12 of the series). ...more I love Kelley Armstrong's writing and I love the Women of the Otherworld series, but somehow I never got to reading Paige's books. I started the series with Haunted (#5), then found out I had to start with Bitten , loved that, read Broken and Stolen in the wrong order and then proceeded with Jaime's, Hope's and Robin's books. First it was a matter of not having access to the books, then I kept getting dissuaded because of all the Paige-hating. Finally, I convinced myself to start reading the firs I love Kelley Armstrong's writing and I love the Women of the Otherworld series, but somehow I never got to reading Paige's books. I started the series with Haunted (#5), then found out I had to start with Bitten , loved that, read Broken and Stolen in the wrong order and then proceeded with Jaime's, Hope's and Robin's books. First it was a matter of not having access to the books, then I kept getting dissuaded because of all the Paige-hating. Finally, I convinced myself to start reading the first page book on a holiday a few weeks ago and all that's left to say is: why the hell did I wait that long? I loved this book. It was fun, engaging, dark at times, with a tiny bit of romance and a lot of Difficult Adolescent Girl (which reminds me: I love Savannah!). I liked that there was no fluff or magical solutions. When shit hit the fan, shit really hit the fan and some events had irreparable consequences. I thought Lucas was most endearing and I loved his budding relationship with Paige, although I do think the actual 'connecting' should have happened a bit later in the book as to have it even more ground. As for Paige: I don't get the hate. I personally admired her firm beliefs and her determination, Sure, she was stubborn at times and sure, she could have tunnel vision, but really: isn't that natural? When the people you love, your life, everything around you falls apart, you hold on to what you know. You try to re-affirm your usual life views. But if all else fails, and there's no turning back: you adjust. And adjust she did. That's why I really liked Paige. And this book. My only peeves were the ending (which felt rushed) and the fact that we don't get a follow up on Savannah's feelings of (view spoiler) [killing Kristof (hide spoiler) ] . Still: a greatly entertaining book: 4 stars. ...more I think the best part is the background lore. I liked the explanations of the witches, sorcerors, and demons. Armstrong's world of supernaturals sounds like a very interesting place, and I'm looking forward to reading the other two books. Paige and Savannah's relationship is quite interesting. How Paige managed to not choke the life out of Savannah, I'll never know. Wow. I hope S's hormones fall into line ... for Paige's sake. :P They have sort of an Obi-Wan/Anakin type of relationship where the I think the best part is the background lore. I liked the explanations of the witches, sorcerors, and demons. Armstrong's world of supernaturals sounds like a very interesting place, and I'm looking forward to reading the other two books. Paige and Savannah's relationship is quite interesting. How Paige managed to not choke the life out of Savannah, I'll never know. Wow. I hope S's hormones fall into line ... for Paige's sake. :P They have sort of an Obi-Wan/Anakin type of relationship where the reckless student is more powerful than the beleaguered mentor. So when Savannah causes trouble, the audience isn't sure to what extent Paige is going to be able to solve it, and it's an interesting cause of tension. The romantic element was predictable and thus pretty uninteresting. The story could've done without it altogether, and may have arguably been more interesting without it since the motivations of the love interest would be further clouded. ...more I noticed that alot of people did not like this book. I also noticed it was in comparision to the first two books of the series Bitten and Stolen with Clay and Elena. I don not think you can compare them They are alomost like a seperate series, they are just people that know each other. I have to say that I really did like the book. I read it without thinking about Clay and Elena, and Bitten was one of my favorits books. I think the characters were good and solid and the story was interesting. I al I noticed that alot of people did not like this book. I also noticed it was in comparision to the first two books of the series Bitten and Stolen with Clay and Elena. I don not think you can compare them They are alomost like a seperate series, they are just people that know each other. I have to say that I really did like the book. I read it without thinking about Clay and Elena, and Bitten was one of my favorits books. I think the characters were good and solid and the story was interesting. I also really like Paige and Lucas as a couple and that how that did not dominate the story, for a change. ...more I love witches so goddamn much and this slow burn was just masterfully executed. Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I was pleasantly surprised by Dime Store Magic when I read it this second time around. My first reading was a bit disappointing because witches replace werewolves as the main characters and that's not a fair trade in my books. Now that I've read nearly the whole series I was able to better appreciate Kelley's third Women of the Otherworld novel. I really enjoyed going back in time and meeting Savannah all over again as well as witnessing the begins of Paige and Lucas' rel Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I was pleasantly surprised by Dime Store Magic when I read it this second time around. My first reading was a bit disappointing because witches replace werewolves as the main characters and that's not a fair trade in my books. Now that I've read nearly the whole series I was able to better appreciate Kelley's third Women of the Otherworld novel. I really enjoyed going back in time and meeting Savannah all over again as well as witnessing the begins of Paige and Lucas' relationship. I'd forgotten a good chunk of the history of witches/sorcerers too so it was a great refresher. This is Paige's first chance to shine as a narrator in this series and I enjoyed her point of view a great deal. Miss Winterbourne hasn't had it easy lately: she lost her mom in the previous installment and gained a teenage ward. Definitely not a fair trade in my books but that's life! I was shocked by how much more I enjoyed Paige this second time around. Originally I found her character to be too weak and naive for my liking but that's not actually the case. Elena is a hard act to follow and although Winterbourne doesn't possess the might of a werewolf, her strength lies in her relationships. Paige is willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for Savannah; she's prepared to give up life as she knows it and all that she holds dear in order for her ward to have a good life. In my eyes, there's nothing nobler than sacrificing oneself for another, especially a child. Lucas and Paige didn't exactly get off to the best start when they first met. I'd forgotten how much they butted heads in the beginning. The couple that I know now are solid in their relationship and are a real power team. That's definitely not the case in Dime Store Magic ! As natural enemies (sorcerer/witch) their confrontations are explosive and when you throw in a teenage witch coming into her powers you're left with a real mess. I think I enjoyed the back-and-forth between the characters more than the plot's main conflict. Lucas and Paige are adorable together even when they're at odds. I liked the trade-spell-for-spell deal that they initiate in this installment as well. When they finally do get together it's quite magical. Literally! Kelley lays out the history of sorcerers and witches in this installment which in itself is a gripping read. Paige explains things from the Coven's perspective, Lucas from the Cabals' and Savannah chimes in too. Combined they provide a pretty well-rounded view of their magical past. Winterbourne also uncovers an interesting secret regarding their grimoires as well that I found fascinating. I like that Armstrong dug as deep as she did into the witch universe. These details aren't crucial to the overall plot but added an extra level of depth that I appreciate as a reader. It just makes the Women of the Otherworld all the more real in my eyes. Other than a few brief phone calls to Elena, this book has very little to do with its predecessors and as a result, it's not essential to have read the previous novels in order to fully understand this one. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't though! Clay and Elena will forever remain my favorite fictional couple but Lucas and Paige are definitely up there. Dime Store Magic is a fun book full of challenges, magic and budding relationships. I enjoyed the story a lot more this second time around and I can't wait to revisit Industrial Magic next month! ...more This is the third book in Kelley Armstrong's \"Women of the Otherworld\" series and I must say, this is my least favourite book (as of yet) in the series. This book is narrated by Paige, the \"know it all\" witch we meet in \"Stolen\". When I first met Paige in \"Stolen\", I did believe that she was a somewhat annoying character, but then again I can now say that in the first two books I was biased against the other female characters as I loved \"Bitten\" and Stolen's\" main character of Elena Michaels so This is the third book in Kelley Armstrong's \"Women of the Otherworld\" series and I must say, this is my least favourite book (as of yet) in the series. This book is narrated by Paige, the \"know it all\" witch we meet in \"Stolen\". When I first met Paige in \"Stolen\", I did believe that she was a somewhat annoying character, but then again I can now say that in the first two books I was biased against the other female characters as I loved \"Bitten\" and Stolen's\" main character of Elena Michaels so much more than the other women. Going into \"Dime Store Magic\" I tried to put aside my preconceived notions of Paige and I do believe that I was successful... To a point. I personally found Paige to be way too 'happy housewife' for me, I like a girl who isn't afraid to kick butt... Paige is very much a homebody- she has the cookies and milk ready for when the kids come home, she is constantly backing,and she only wears skirts as jeans are beneath her. Though I believe that more people can relate to Paige than Elena, I much prefer Elena. And as I love Elena so much, I love her partner Clay just as much (most likely more though- him being all Greek god-ish). Introduced in \"Dime Store Magic\" is the male counterpart of Paige, Cortez. To sum it up, Cortez is as interesting as a sack of potatoes. At first I thought that Cortez had potential when he knocked on Paige's door to offer her his assistance, standing there shuffling his papaers about, afraid to meet her eyes... I thought he was going to be some loveable dork, but alas, that was not the case. I think what bugged me most about Cortez is his language. Yes, I understand that he is a lawyer and a professional, and therefore he has to uphold a certain persona. But really? He doesn't drop the act whatsoever, you think he would lighten up a tiny bit when he was no longer in a professional setting (like the conversation between Paige and Cortez where Paige is trying to figure out what university Cortez went to. A completely unnecessary scene and in the end we don't even find out where he went!). And what I like even more about Kelley's books is the passion between the male and female leads. And I must admit, that there is no passion whatsoever between Cortez and Paige. They have no chemistry and though there is a 'sexy scene' it seems entirely forced and more than a little awkward. There is really nothing in played out in the book that shows that either is experiencing feelings for the another, save for a scene where Savannah tells Paige that Cortez kept asking Savannah if Paige was interested in her best friend Adam. I kind of wish that there was something between Adam and Paige, just because he is so much more interesting than Cortez. I am looking forward to getting to the sixth book in this series (where a. Paige will not be a lead and b. where Elena will be)... ...more Prepare to be enchanted\u2026by a truly mesmerizing, magical story! From author of \u2018Bitten\u2019 and \u2018Stolen\u2019 is another spellbinding tale that embodies all one truly loves with Young Adult fantasy/ paranormal fiction. Full of deadly demons, supernatural sorcerers and wicked Witches this captivating tale is one that will have you reading into the early hours of the morning with feverish excitement. \u2018Dime Store Magic\u2019 is the forth book in the series of Otherworld books, which began with Bitten and ends wit Prepare to be enchanted\u2026by a truly mesmerizing, magical story! From author of \u2018Bitten\u2019 and \u2018Stolen\u2019 is another spellbinding tale that embodies all one truly loves with Young Adult fantasy/ paranormal fiction. Full of deadly demons, supernatural sorcerers and wicked Witches this captivating tale is one that will have you reading into the early hours of the morning with feverish excitement. \u2018Dime Store Magic\u2019 is the forth book in the series of Otherworld books, which began with Bitten and ends with Broken. The enchanting storyline captures your attention almost instantly, whisking you away into a world that is no different from our own, and yet which harbors many things \u2013 Beneath the surface lies sinister secrets and mystery, shrouded in a cloak of concealment and which only can be discovered if you dare to open the pages\u2026 The main protagonist is likeable and someone whom I instantly connected to, for her age is nearer my own (compared to other Young Adult stories that contain teenagers). I loved the Witch element which gave it an almost \u2018Sabrina\u2019 feel to it, although directed towards the older reader I feel. Paige and her adopted teenage daughter, Savannah\u2019s connection is poignant and heartwarming and I really felt for the young child as she sought help in pursuit of her mother. That family blood-bond is so strong and something that all readers will be able to empathize with, for regardless of any magical power the power of love is strongest and resolute. With a telekinetic half-demon stalking them and a bunch of evil sorcerers, Paige has a challenge ahead of her that is heightened by her fragile situation. As \u2018normal humans\u2019 (aka. Her neighbors) uncover the truth about her; the tension rises as they endeavor to use magic for good. This otherworldly creation is a work of pure genius for I found myself truly believing everything about this convincing story that is akin to \u2018Harry Potter\u2019 for you do believe in the magic. Containing everything I love within this genre; from Witches to casting spells, powerful creatures that are dark and deadly, to love and those special moments which tug on the heartstrings. Utterly fascinating, I was most intrigued by the sinister forces and mixture of myth, fable and fantastical vision that captures your imagination. I would highly recommend this gripping, absorbing tale to all those who enjoy mystical masterpieces of sheer creative vision and something a bit \u201cTwilight esque\u201d!! ...more Dime Store Magic is the third book in the Women of the Otherworld series, and as with the prior two books it\u2019s a great read. With this one, we see a change in perspective and at first I wasn\u2019t quite sure how I was going to enjoy it. Through the first two books I was really pulled into the werewolf world and knowing a change was coming had left me tentative. Yes, I\u2019d enjoyed the introduction to the other supernatural parts of the world we got to see in Stolen but I wasn\u2019t sure where things would Dime Store Magic is the third book in the Women of the Otherworld series, and as with the prior two books it\u2019s a great read. With this one, we see a change in perspective and at first I wasn\u2019t quite sure how I was going to enjoy it. Through the first two books I was really pulled into the werewolf world and knowing a change was coming had left me tentative. Yes, I\u2019d enjoyed the introduction to the other supernatural parts of the world we got to see in Stolen but I wasn\u2019t sure where things would go. Fortunately, I very quickly found myself pulled into the story. Paige turned out to be a very interesting character, giving us a very different viewpoint to that given in the first two books. The way the story was told from her perspective really pulled you in, leaving you entertained throughout, giving you a much wider view of the supernatural world. Looking at the witching world, it was a very different kind of story to that in the first two books. Yes, there was links, but at the same time it was a completely unique story. Honestly, the development of the witching world was my favourite aspect of the story. We only got a glimpse of it in the prior book, but in this one we got a much better understanding of the witching world. Learning the rules and watching the interactions was so much fun, especially as we found out more regarding the divide between witches and warlocks. That brings me nicely to my next point. Whilst the romantic element in this one was rather predictable, I really enjoyed watching it unfold. The romance in this was completely different to that seen in the prior book, ensuring the story was as far away from the prior books as possible in as many was as could be. We have a completely different personality with our main character; we have a completely different romance story; we have a completely different plotline. All in all, it works well to make this books stand on its own whilst remaining linked to the main series. Honestly, this book is very different to the prior two books and I loved this change. It moves the entire series forward through introducing us to many new aspects of the world, allowing us to see things from another perspective, all whilst having a unique feel about it. I really do need to get my hands on book four and continue on with this wonderful series. ...more In this part of the series Paige Winterbourne is in custody of Savannah, a 13 year old powerful witch. Anyone who knows 13 year olds knows that is a difficult task in itself but and the witch part & Paige will have to be a very strong woman. Savannah\u2019s mother was a very powerful dark witch whom many were afraid of. Her father is thought to be a half-demon but which one they are not sure. If you read book #2 in the series then you know who Leah is. She makes another appearance in this book. Le In this part of the series Paige Winterbourne is in custody of Savannah, a 13 year old powerful witch. Anyone who knows 13 year olds knows that is a difficult task in itself but and the witch part & Paige will have to be a very strong woman. Savannah\u2019s mother was a very powerful dark witch whom many were afraid of. Her father is thought to be a half-demon but which one they are not sure. If you read book #2 in the series then you know who Leah is. She makes another appearance in this book. Leah is working for the bad guys as usual & they want Savannah just as Leah wanted before. Now Paige is in real trouble with the Coven for all the trouble that Leah is causing even though none of it is Paige\u2019s fault. Paige is looking for some kind of support from the Coven but none is given & they turn the back on Paige giving her an ultimatum, turn Savannah over to the bad guys & end the trouble or she will be banished from the Coven altogether. Paige now has to rely on the only person trying to help her, Lucas. The main problem with Lucas is he is a sorcerer. Sorcerers & witches are usually on opposing sides. Can Paige trust Lucas? That is the real question. Follow along this adventure with lots of action as Paige, Lucas, & Savannah\u2019s story unfolds. I did not think that much of Paige\u2019s character in Book #2, she came off as snotty. But I like that you can see more of her story here. You see her more grown up after what happened with her mother. You see her strength & willingness to overcome. You also see her love for Savannah despite the problems in their relationship & their closeness in age. ...more I grabbed this book because I needed something to read for the long flight from Toronto to Tokyo, and because I had heard good things about the author - another type to try and fill the void left by Laurell K. Hamilton . And also, because the author is a fellow Ontarian. This book fails on so many levels, and I only finished it because I really didn't have anything else to do on the flight, especially factoring in the 20 hour delay in Chicago, and I was angry enough that I spent the money on it I grabbed this book because I needed something to read for the long flight from Toronto to Tokyo, and because I had heard good things about the author - another type to try and fill the void left by Laurell K. Hamilton . And also, because the author is a fellow Ontarian. This book fails on so many levels, and I only finished it because I really didn't have anything else to do on the flight, especially factoring in the 20 hour delay in Chicago, and I was angry enough that I spent the money on it that I was determined to finish it. The characters are largely unlikable and the plot highly predictable. Paige is annoying and makes only minorly less stupid decisions then her young ward, Savannah. Even Cortez, one of the few characters I did enjoy, sometimes comes off as a caricature of himself when his unique style of speaking is so horribly overdone. The only other thing this book going for it are the \"world\" elements the author has come up with - the war between sorcerers and witches, and how magic is set up in this world are kind of interesting. With another protagonist I might have liked to follow along to where the series seems to be aiming - with Paige creating a newer coven and bringing the witches into the 21st century. I might give the series another chance, perhaps with the werewolf, Elena. ...more This book was okay. It's a follow up in the series to a character that was introduced in book 2. The interesting part is that the author has made her book completely separate from the first two. That's not to say that it follows in line with the same interesting story line. Paige's story is quite different and a little bland. The romantic relationship doesn't really develop, it just happens. It's kind of awkward and strange and I didn't think it flowed at all with the story. It was as if the aut This book was okay. It's a follow up in the series to a character that was introduced in book 2. The interesting part is that the author has made her book completely separate from the first two. That's not to say that it follows in line with the same interesting story line. Paige's story is quite different and a little bland. The romantic relationship doesn't really develop, it just happens. It's kind of awkward and strange and I didn't think it flowed at all with the story. It was as if the author put an obligatory sex scene and romance into the story to appease readers. Paige needs more depth of character and the antagonists were really weak. I'll keep reading because the books get new narrators. Can't wait for Broken to get back to Elena. I understand the moral behind each of these women's stories. It's to accept a life that cannot be chosen or controlled. To accept what's given to you and ultimately be happy with that less than perfectly \"normal\" life. It's a good moral to live by and I enjoy reading the women of the otherworld learn how to accept it. ...more Paige a witch becomes the head of the coven due to her mother's death. She is determined to take care of teenage Savannah. Paige is facing trouble both from Savannah's biological father sudden appearance and claim for guardianship and from the coven who would rather be rid of Savannah. The book back cover claims Savannah is some \"dark\" teen dabbling with \"evil\" side of her powers but I really found her more of a normal teen with supernatural powers and the willingness to use them without the com Paige a witch becomes the head of the coven due to her mother's death. She is determined to take care of teenage Savannah. Paige is facing trouble both from Savannah's biological father sudden appearance and claim for guardianship and from the coven who would rather be rid of Savannah. The book back cover claims Savannah is some \"dark\" teen dabbling with \"evil\" side of her powers but I really found her more of a normal teen with supernatural powers and the willingness to use them without the complications of overly strict morals. Not that she would use them for anything I thought was \"bad\" but sometimes we both agreed that a little \"evil\" spell would be more expedient and mostly harmless. I did find the magical division between witches and sorcerers to be quite interesting. I wonder what would happen if they were to interbreed? Would the offspring have both powers or just the power respective of their gender? ...more Dime Store Magic is Kelley Armstrong 's third Women of the Underworld book, and so far, the weakest. After such a solid debut with Bitten , I was really surprised that DSM ended up being a lesser story. The romance felt obligatory, the complexity of the levels of demons and witch magic made me wish for the simplicity of the werewolf pack in the earlier books, and Lucas Cortez's dialogue was painfully stiff and formal. The various conflicts all felt manufactured and forced - no one's motivations re Dime Store Magic is Kelley Armstrong 's third Women of the Underworld book, and so far, the weakest. After such a solid debut with Bitten , I was really surprised that DSM ended up being a lesser story. The romance felt obligatory, the complexity of the levels of demons and witch magic made me wish for the simplicity of the werewolf pack in the earlier books, and Lucas Cortez's dialogue was painfully stiff and formal. The various conflicts all felt manufactured and forced - no one's motivations really made sense. I liked the continuation of Savannah's and Leah's stories, carried forward from Stolen , but I'd really like to get back to books about Elena. All that said, I still gave it three stars indicating that it was an entertaining read, but I hope Kelley Armstrong gets back in shape after this book. ...more Heavy going. The characters are largely unlikeable, the story telling heavy-handed and the morals more so. I am not keen on stories where people make inexplicable decisions for the only reason that the plot will keel over and die without them (an ounce of common sense would have ended the plot about half way through, iirc). I also don't much care for the style of the 'romance' going through it -- I'm not a fan of stories which advocate handing over your life and personal responsibility to a nice Heavy going. The characters are largely unlikeable, the story telling heavy-handed and the morals more so. I am not keen on stories where people make inexplicable decisions for the only reason that the plot will keel over and die without them (an ounce of common sense would have ended the plot about half way through, iirc). I also don't much care for the style of the 'romance' going through it -- I'm not a fan of stories which advocate handing over your life and personal responsibility to a nice strong significant other, because I find the abrogation of personal responsibility immoral and stupid. An enjoyable if problematic read. Not one I will read again. Fortunately, I didn't start with this book, but with Haunted which is better in all respects. ...more Dime Store Magic is centered on Paige and Savannah, 2 charachters I enjoyed in Stolen. The story starts a few months after Stolen and Savannah and Paige seem to have adapted to living together, or as much as they can anyway with Savannah being a moody teenager who lost her mom. But then someone from the past wants to fight Paige for Savannah's custody and makes their lives a living hell! They get help from a very unexpected corner, from a Sorcerer, and not just any Sorcerer... from Lucas Cortez, he Dime Store Magic is centered on Paige and Savannah, 2 charachters I enjoyed in Stolen. The story starts a few months after Stolen and Savannah and Paige seem to have adapted to living together, or as much as they can anyway with Savannah being a moody teenager who lost her mom. But then someone from the past wants to fight Paige for Savannah's custody and makes their lives a living hell! They get help from a very unexpected corner, from a Sorcerer, and not just any Sorcerer... from Lucas Cortez, heir to the Cortez Cabal. I loved Dime Store Magic and it was nice to have a book centered on other supernaturals than the wolves. I do love The Pack but this world is more than just werewolves so I'm eager to learn more about the other supernaturals! ...more", "Title": "Dime Store Magic"},
