{"Comments": "A 491 page soap box. Here's what's wrong with it, in no particular order: (1) Not offering anything new to the conversation. I imagine I will not be the only fan of dystopian literature who will be bored and feel this is retreading old territory already covered in books written long before the age of the internet. As a human being living in a first world country, the comparisons one can draw between real-life companies and the Circle are second nature: Facebook's ever-changing privacy policies, t A 491 page soap box. Here's what's wrong with it, in no particular order: (1) Not offering anything new to the conversation. I imagine I will not be the only fan of dystopian literature who will be bored and feel this is retreading old territory already covered in books written long before the age of the internet. As a human being living in a first world country, the comparisons one can draw between real-life companies and the Circle are second nature: Facebook's ever-changing privacy policies,<---M> the tender feelings of Facebook culture</---M>, Google's enormity (delving into other spheres like banking, phones, etc.) and well-publicized work environment, Steve Jobs' cool public image, WikiLeaks' total transparency, country-wide privatization of what were previously public services, etc. Likewise, it is easy to see pieces of other stories in this one, whether dystopian ( 1984 's watchful eye eliminating privacy and its bold-faced mantras), comedic ( Office Space 's passive aggressive pressure for more \"pieces of flare,\" though this is treated humorlessly in <+++>The Circle</+++> ) and best-forgotten flops ( Idiocracy 's ruling class communicating through a hyper-dumbed-down language/culture of cool, something I'm thankful is sloppily forgotten less than halfway into <+++>The Circle</+++> ). That amounts to a lot of boxes checked off by the book, but it doesn't take any bold steps of its own. At its simplest, it is a cautionary tale about a would-be utopia that gradually loses its shine, a hammer Animal Farm mercifully only pounded me with for 100 pages or so.<---F> (2) The tone</---F>. The only thing complicated about the book's tone is this: when it chooses to voice the possible consequences of a powerhouse entity like the Circle, does it realize these concerns are pretty much universally recognized already? I can't determine whether the book means to be trite or condescending. Which brings me to... (3) The audience. While I don't believe an author should dumb down books for a younger generation, the themes of this book might make more of an impact on a younger audience, though it clearly wasn't written for them. Why write a book that warns against sacrificing privacy online and volunteering one's soul to large corporate entities (no matter how genial), if only to market it to a generation who spends its time warning its own children about the same issues? (Side note: In the year since I wrote this review I've noticed that, like Ayn Rand books, this book's fans appear to simply agree with the message of warning, which is very different from liking a book for its merits as a literary work.) (4) The protagonist. The protagonist is easily influenced to the point of not being a driving force in her own life, all while being 100% bright-eyed and naive. The choice to cast a young woman (only two years out of college) as this malleable protagonist is misguided and invites criticism, especially with the national dialogues happening around women's rights AND since this is Eggers first full-length book to center around a female character. Those issues aside, the paper-thin Mae has only one driving force as the book goes on: being liked. While this could be a conscious comment on the Facebook generation, it doesn't make for a good character. There is little to make us care about the vapid protagonist or the missteps she continuously makes throughout the book. Not caring about her makes it difficult to identify with her, which (a) means Mae's naivete gives this would-be cautionary tale an abundantly obvious direction and (b) makes it unlikely people will see Mae's story as their own being lived out through (i) Facebook's ever-changing privacy policies, (ii) their own choice in how to respond to Google's growing ubiquity/power and (iii) the self-induced pressures of cultivating an active \"life\" online. Though she is cautious about many of her first steps into something new, feeling pressured to continue, it isn't long before she is running blindly into the next step of cult-like brainwashing. (view spoiler) [(In a totally unnecessary subplot, she even goes so far as to crave an unfulfilled sex life with a her emotionally limp partner Francis.) (hide spoiler) ] It is frustrating to realize that she never stands up for herself...at least it was until I realized she doesn't seem to have anything to stand up for. Mae is so easily manipulated by the powers that be at the Circle that it is difficult to acknowledge her as a sentient being. (5) The dialogue. So much time is spent showing the growing pressures and power of the Circle that it is a wonder that any time is spent telling what is happening, as it is so frequently through characters voicing aloud their intentions/motives/feelings. The writing in these moments are fully-articulated viewpoints one could cut and paste into an Op-Ed piece. The characters of Eamon Bailey and Mercer have all the subtlety of Ayn Rand's Howard Rourke but with none of the appeal. Plus, other characters enter the story for no reason other than to offer another somewhat obvious glimpse of the repercussions of an entity like the Circle (e.g. a drunken zealot who stumbles in to encourage the Circle to use its powers to create uniform morality). (6) The spineless masses. As written, it is totally unbelievable that everyone would go along with each step, much less with such evangelical enthusiasm. What is motivating them to agree and cheer each time their privacy is stripped away? Mercer is the first voice of reason at page 260 or so, which is (a) ridiculous and (b) poorly conceived since he and Mae are mid-argument when the usually-short-on-words Mercer waxes articulate philosophical viewpoints. (This does, however, manifest itself into the only idea I encountered that was new to me: that the biggest disconnect for people in their small, public activities online is that individually most people aren't doing anything wrong, but they are not conscious of the effect collectively.) (7) Numerous set-ups that lead to nothing. (view spoiler) [These are just off the top of my head: Mae's survey answer that forced her to answer positively, the documented activities Mae took part in that she would prefer to have kept hidden never came back to haunt her post-transparency, the secrecy around Kalden that had so intrigued/irritated Annie that she conveniently forgets, the people who are blackballed/convicted/framed for voicing opposition to the Circle, the entire motif of Mae's private trips to go kayaking that is ignored completely by the end of Book I. It's Chekhov's worst nightmare: So many guns hanging on the wall; none of them fired. (hide spoiler) ] (8) The artwork. Sorry to nitpick, but even this completely lacks subtlety: On the dust jacket is the Circle's logo, a C or a circle not yet complete. Take off the dust jacket and one sees that the circle is complete and it has become a target. Insert cutting remark here. There are even more things I personally didn't like about the book. (view spoiler) [There was one small detail: the recurring sort-of symbol of Mae feeling a tearing within, which wasn't the least bit poetic. Larger structural opinions: I wish the book had dropped us in the middle of things at the start of Book II, rather than spending the first 300 pages focusing on a newcomer being slowly introduced to the world of the Circle. As is, it aims to illustrate the slow progression to total acceptance that an employee of the Circle might go through, but it fails because Mae expresses little-to-no inner-struggle with all that is expected of her. Book II's aquarium motif: What will a vicious shark do? Not hard to guess. But at least the book spells out what the incredibly obvious symbol means. (I wasn't sure at times what to be more angry about: the book's obvious symbols or the fact they were all spelled out.) The two \"mysterious\" people: One is a nameless mystery. The other is a hooded figure whose whereabouts are unknown. Was anyone the least bit surprised? Lastly, I found it a strange choice that the book only warns of the bad things to come from the Circle taking full control, but never actually shows these fears becoming a reality (except for the few people who voice opposition and are targeted, something that only happens early in the book). I believe this was a conscious choice, but it makes the entire book an unfulfilled set-up, which might've worked were the book better. ...But those are just opinions, not exactly ones I could support in a bullet point. Still felt like voicing, though. (hide spoiler) ] ...more A Review of <---A>Dave Eggers</---A>' The Circle by Google Transparency is... Surveillance is... Society is... Kayaking is... Cults are... Everything in moderation, including... Cynicism is... Can I... On a more serious note, yes, this is The Fountainhead for Big Data. If Sonny Mehta had called up Dave Eggers and offered him 100,000 shares of Facebook to write a The Fountainhead for Big Data it couldn't have turned out much differently from this book. The Circle is as manipulative, intellectually bankrupt, and cardbo A Review of Dave Eggers' The Circle by Google Transparency is... Surveillance is... Society is... Kayaking is... Cults are... Everything in moderation, including... Cynicism is... Can I... On a more serious note, yes, this is The Fountainhead for Big Data. If Sonny Mehta had called up Dave Eggers and offered him 100,000 shares of Facebook to write a The Fountainhead for Big Data it couldn't have turned out much differently from this book. The Circle is as manipulative, intellectually bankrupt, and cardboard character-filled as Ayn Rand's book, which means it has none of the things that I look for in a novel. However, in keeping with one of the themes hammered home again and again and again in this book, I don't necessarily want all novels that I read to feel as if they were written for me and my tastes. Eggers' and Rand's novels are striking and extreme, and we need striking and extreme novels along with all the rest. Any engineer who leaves this book shaking his/her head at another high-profile Luddite who JUST DOESN'T UNDERSTAND THE COMPLEXITIES AND DAY TO DAY OF REAL LIFE SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT should think of a novel like this as rapid prototyping for reality. Eggers is hacking together something purposefully bad hoping to get as many people as he can to stop, read, and admit that we really don't want this to be our future, right, right, RIGHT? I think most of the people leaving one-star ratings and all of those leaving five-star ratings of this book would nod, Mae-like, yes . And creating that kind of consensus, in an age and about mechanisms that Google can't even decide whether to deem GOOD, BAD, or NECESSARY, is so valuable. This book is not very good, but you should read it. ...more Liking this review will send a zing direct to Dave Eggers, who will enter the names of all those who liked at once into the McSweeney\u2019s Assimilation Programme (MAP), an underground writing movement devoted to the extinction of all non-clear-cut, accessible, socially conscious, lyrical and harmlessly amusing prose. Eggers will also have access to your Facebook profiles and email addresses, and will friend you as JONAS BENZINE, a plucky Mexican stripper interested in your wit and bank account. Jus Liking this review will send a zing direct to Dave Eggers, who will enter the names of all those who liked at once into the McSweeney\u2019s Assimilation Programme (MAP), an underground writing movement devoted to the extinction of all non-clear-cut, accessible, socially conscious, lyrical and harmlessly amusing prose. Eggers will also have access to your Facebook profiles and email addresses, and will friend you as JONAS BENZINE, a plucky Mexican stripper interested in your wit and bank account. Just a warning. Eggers\u2019s latest novel is a deliberate re-imagining of IngSoc from 1984 in the form of a bland Californian Google-plex whose erosion of privacy for the Greater Good becomes the hippest thing in Corporate Evil. His constant riffing on the banalities of social networks and the inherent evil lurking below is first-rate, raising oodles of smiles and outright titters, taking excellent turns to the sinister and horror-film eerie within a sometimes obvious but zingy plot. Apart from one scene where Mae\u2019s lover asks for a rating after sex (we all do that, right?), the observational material, intelligently researched and presented concepts, character-buffing sections, are excellent and, of course, Eggers is a mainstream literary writer, so writes with effortless page-munching zeal. Remember, failure to like this review will reduce your standing in the eyes of those who (hitherto) loved and respected you. ...more I really wanted to like this. The idea of a dystopian novel centered around the perils of the Internet (or the company/companies that control it) is a really appealing and relevant theme. There are parts of the book\u2014the main character\u2019s addiction to crowd-sourcing or sharing minute details about what\u2019s happening around her\u2014that absolutely feel like 50 Shades of Creepy. The big problem with The Circle is that the main character is completely flat. I didn\u2019t understand her, her connections with oth I really wanted to like this. The idea of a dystopian novel centered around the perils of the Internet (or the company/companies that control it) is a really appealing and relevant theme. There are parts of the book\u2014the main character\u2019s addiction to crowd-sourcing or sharing minute details about what\u2019s happening around her\u2014that absolutely feel like 50 Shades of Creepy. The big problem with The Circle is that the main character is completely flat. I didn\u2019t understand her, her connections with other characters or her motivations. In a digital, dynamic world, Mae (the main character) is static. She speaks mostly in responses to questions. Do you understand this, Mae? \u201cI do.\u201d Does this make sense, Mae? \u201cIt does.\u201d It\u2019s a stretch, but I could excuse this as Eggers\u2019 interesting way to show how submissive we become next to what we perceive as Immense World Power. But honestly, I hesitate to give the book that much credit. The plot is predictable in a bad way. The characters are one-dimensional in a bad way. Speaking of predictable\u2014the ending! It wasn\u2019t satisfying and it provoked no emotional response from me whatsoever. I ended the book, I tossed my Kindle to the side and that was that. This is no modern 1984. I\u2019d enjoy reading a suspenseful, realistic and engaging dystopian novel about the Internet. This book wasn\u2019t it. ...more Not long ago, one of the founders of Goodreads posted this on the site's blog: Picture it: You're curled up on the couch, lost in a fantastic story on your new Kindle Paperwhite, when you come across the most amazing passage. It sends shivers down your spine... or it makes you laugh... or it captures something important to you. And you can't wait to see if your friends feel the same way. Now there's no need to put down your new Kindle Paperwhite to jump on Goodreads and share it with your friends Not long ago, one of the founders of Goodreads posted this on the site's blog: Picture it: You're curled up on the couch, lost in a fantastic story on your new Kindle Paperwhite, when you come across the most amazing passage. It sends shivers down your spine... or it makes you laugh... or it captures something important to you. And you can't wait to see if your friends feel the same way. Now there's no need to put down your new Kindle Paperwhite to jump on Goodreads and share it with your friends... Starting today, Goodreads is inside your books on the new Kindle Paperwhite. Reading and discussing books are no longer separated\u2014your reading experience is all on one device!1!!11!!!1!! [creative punctuation added] That's right. It used to be that reading was basically a solitary experience. Sure, you could talk about it later, among friends, in a book group, on a site like this. But in order to form your opinion of a book, you needed alone time with it. You needed to be able to give it your full attention, concentrate on it, decide how you felt about it. Now you don't need to do any of those things. You can share every line with your friends (or \"friends\"), pretty much as soon as you read them, and you don't even have to put the book (or \"book\") down and pick up a device. It's all integrated for the maximum amount of sharing! How do you feel about this? If this idea sounds awesome to you, chances are you'll hate The Circle , but you'd fit right in at the Circle. If this idea sounds like a nightmare, you definitely wouldn't like the Circle, but you might like The Circle . If you'll permit me another digression, do you remember when Jonathan Franzen had the nerve to say he didn't like Twitter and the internet fairly exploded in its collective anger? I never understood it. Who cares if Jonathan Franzen doesn't like Twitter? He doesn't have to like it. People are allowed to not like Twitter. But we've all heard it a million times by now, in various internet-related scenarios: this is the way we're headed, this is the future, if you don't buy in wholeheartedly you're an embarrassing dinosaur, just accept it! I find this thinking alarming. Haven't we learned anything from the past? Decades ago, we decided the automobile was the future and started building neighborhoods with no sidewalks or businesses within walking distance. Decades ago, we decided processed foods were the future and started deemphasizing fresh food, not to mention local farms. We all know how these scenarios turned out. We now spend a lot of time and resources trying to coax people back onto a kind of middle ground. I'm no Luddite--I like social media (obviously). A middle ground is all I'm asking for, but these are all-or-nothing times we've been living in. Similarly, The Circle is an all-or-nothing kind of book. I wouldn't call it a literary novel; it's more of a fable, a kind of 1984 for the online world. Its central character, Mae, is a frustrating empty vessel. She believes anything she's told, gloms onto any guy who shows interest in her, abandons her loved ones, passions, and principles (the few she has) with only the slightest persuasion. Is she a pure symbol, meant only to convey what happens when things go too far, or is she actually supposed to be a real human being? (In other words, is this what Dave Eggers thinks of real human beings?) On the other hand, Mae's ex-boyfriend Mercer is such an anachronism that he seems to be a symbol as well, set up purely for contrast to Mae. The rest of the characters are ciphers, impossible to really get to know. Side effect of being part of the Circle? Or did Dave Eggers consider the characters secondary to the message he was trying to get across, and therefore simply didn't spend a lot of time on them? Still, while the book's characters and events are certainly taken to extremes, the story nevertheless feels plausible to me. What's more, it's fast-paced and entertaining and made me feel like I was trapped in a horrible nightmare I couldn't get out of. I would suggest you read it. Decide for yourself what you think. ...more Unfortunately, despite an intriguing premise and my high hopes, I feel obliged to give THE CIRCLE more frowns than smiles . In Mae's extreme/bizarre opinion, my \"dislike\" may as well equate to murder, or hatred at least. Really it's just disappointment. \"Smiles\" : --The ending. Mae (view spoiler) [choosing the Circle over Ty (hide spoiler) ] was the perfect outcome. Any sort of (view spoiler) ['happy ending' (hide spoiler) ] would have lost the book entirely to lameness. --The exploration of an interes Unfortunately, despite an intriguing premise and my high hopes, I feel obliged to give THE CIRCLE more frowns than smiles . In Mae's extreme/bizarre opinion, my \"dislike\" may as well equate to murder, or hatred at least. Really it's just disappointment. \"Smiles\" : --The ending. Mae (view spoiler) [choosing the Circle over Ty (hide spoiler) ] was the perfect outcome. Any sort of (view spoiler) ['happy ending' (hide spoiler) ] would have lost the book entirely to lameness. --The exploration of an interesting idea. Private vs public. Social media at its extreme. --Part II, where Mae is (view spoiler) [made transparent (hide spoiler) ] , raises the stakes nicely, and increases the tension. (In fact, this is potentially the first time the stakes are raised in the book.) \"Frowns\" : --The Kalden 'twist' was very obvious from early on, and that cringe-worthy scene underground gave it away entirely. (You know, passwords, top secret underground bunkers, old mattresses, Mae 'falling apart all over' Kalden. *ugh*) --The sex/'romantic' scenes. All of them. With Francis they were supposed to be bad but the Kalden scenes were worse. When she imagines herself 'sitting on his crown' I feel nauseous. --How dumb is Mae? E.g. Was she surprised to hear Ty's summation of Francis's TruYouth idea? Is the permanence of implanting chips inside the bones of infants not obvious? And did she really think that Mercer would appreciate being stalked by the world via flying cameras? Apparently she thought Mercer would \"laugh too,\" and would \"shake his head in admiration for the power of the wonderful tools at her disposal.\" Okay. --Mercer's (view spoiler) [death (hide spoiler) ] was far too predictable in terms of plot--Eggers needed to show shocking worst case scenarios for the plot to have impact--and in terms of character it fell flat. I did not believe for a second that Mercer would actually (view spoiler) [drive his car off a cliff (hide spoiler) ] . His character was not developed well enough for me to buy it. --Every time the crowd 'roared' or 'erupted with laughter' at one of Bailey's lame jokes I was tempted to close the book for good. --The book could do with some serious editing. The descriptions of the ins and outs of Mae's desk job could be cut down by a half. In fact, most of the pages could be cut down by a half. --The majority of the book is unbelievable, to say the least. E.g. In what world would someone get into so much trouble for not attending an inordinate number of mundane work functions? --Worst of all, the character development--or lack thereof. Bailey is a caricature. Mercer is a caricature. Annie is weak. Those two social police people, and Mae's boss, Dan, all talk like the cast of a bad sitcom, (\"Let's put a pin in that thought\"), and Mae acts and thinks like an imbecile. Continually. Much more so than any likeable/relatable protagonist should. So, IMO: frown . ...more Realistically, The Circle probably deserves just four out of five stars - the writing is simple and the characters don't have much depth. In any other book, shortcomings like these would definitely play a much bigger role in the rating. But despite these issues, for me The Circle was an extremely exciting and interesting story to read. There's been plenty of conversation and scrutinizing of Dave Eggers and his approach to the story. Plenty has been said about how he neglected to do any research a Realistically, The Circle probably deserves just four out of five stars - the writing is simple and the characters don't have much depth. In any other book, shortcomings like these would definitely play a much bigger role in the rating. But despite these issues, for me The Circle was an extremely exciting and interesting story to read. There's been plenty of conversation and scrutinizing of Dave Eggers and his approach to the story. Plenty has been said about how he neglected to do any research about tech companies or the people who work in the industry. Interestingly, despite all these concerns, readers are still enjoying the book. What people seem to forget is the fact that The Circle isn't meant to be a biographical retelling of some historic event. The Circle is meant to be read as a non-fiction novel - what happens at The Circle is irrelevant, it's what you think about while reading that counts. While reading I ended up making quite a few annotations in my Kindle, and I realized a lot of the notes were about similarities to the world we live in today. Eggers creates interesting situations that really prompt readers to consider what kind of world we live in today and where we're going in terms of technology and how we use it. This is all facilitated by the superb settings of the company known as The Circle. In early speculations about the book, it was presumed that this huge tech giant that got started in web search and eventually grew to do anything you could think of from shopping to social media, etc. was in fact everyone's everyday favorite tool Google. When you first hear about The Circle and what they do as a company, your initial response is to consider how ridiculous it all sounds. But over time, as you learn more about the company, its history and its projects, and even see the situations its employees are in, you think these scenarios are not too far off from what we experience today - how far are we really from this future? Along with this extremely interesting premise are occasional twists and turns in the plot, and although there are some predictable points in the story, there were a lot of questions in my mind that kept me flipping to the next page, looking for an answer. Even though by the end of the story I don't think all of my questions were answered, I still enjoyed the overall journey quite a bit. ...more Dave Eggers is having a Klout moment: He\u2019s just published a dystopian satire about social media called \u201cThe Circle.\u201d On Sunday, the New York Times Magazine touted an excerpt on its cover. The blogosphere has lit up like the aurora borealis. At 500 pages, this relentless broadside against the corrosive effects of the connected life is as subtle as a sponsored tweet. Make no mistake: Eggers has seen the Facebook effect, and he does not \u201clike\u201d it. His parable of technological madness reads like a Bu Dave Eggers is having a Klout moment: He\u2019s just published a dystopian satire about social media called \u201cThe Circle.\u201d On Sunday, the New York Times Magazine touted an excerpt on its cover. The blogosphere has lit up like the aurora borealis. At 500 pages, this relentless broadside against the corrosive effects of the connected life is as subtle as a sponsored tweet. Make no mistake: Eggers has seen the Facebook effect, and he does not \u201clike\u201d it. His parable of technological madness reads like a BuzzFeed list of \u201cTop 10 Problems With the Web.\u201d He\u2019s followed the links from today\u2019s Silicon Valley to next Tuesday and discovered that we\u2019re all craven exhibitionists, distracted into idiocy by the insatiable demands and worthless pleasures of the Internet. Yelp, indeed! What\u2019s it about.com? As the hip founder of McSweeney\u2019s, Eggers is LinkedIn to everyone who\u2019s anyone, but he claims that he\u2019s never been to the Googleplex outside San Francisco. Until he posts his complete My Location history, I\u2019m skeptical because it\u2019s awfully easy to recognize the setting of \u201cThe Circle\u201d: the sprawling campus of an omnivorous Silicon Valley search company where 10,000 of the brightest young people in the world glide around the glass headquarters, enjoying free gourmet food and Pilates classes. \u201cOutside the walls of the Circle, all was noise and struggle, failure and filth,\u201d Eggers writes. \u201cBut here, all had been perfected.\u201d The novel has a lot of fun with this breathless tour \u2014 imagine a Pinterest board maintained by Walt Disney and Kim Jong Il. \u201cThe Circle\u201d is working in an old tradition of warnings about schemes to deify mortals, stories that go back to the serpent who promised to help us know everything. But like Gary Shteyngart in \u201c Super Sad True Love Story ,\u201d Eggers strains to stay one Instagram ahead of the real-life absurdities made possible by the new fortunes of social media. After all, it was only two weeks ago that the cover of Time magazine asked, \u201cCan Google Solve Death?\u201d Next to that ambition, driverless cars and reliable restaurant reviews don\u2019t seem so far-fetched. The Circle is directed by the three Wise Men, which is just the first example of the corporation\u2019s cutesy messianic lingo. One member of this triumvirate is Ty, a socially awkward visionary who wears an enormous hoodie. (Tell your lawyers to stand down, Mark. It says right here that \u201cany resemblance to actual persons is entirely coincidental.\u201d) A few years before the story opens, Ty and his two more seasoned partners devised TruYou, a transformative new way to interact with the Web and the world: \u201cAnytime you wanted to see anything, use anything, comment on anything or buy anything, it was one button, one account, everything tied together and trackable and simple, all of it operable via mobile or laptop, tablet or retinal.\u201d Their goal is nothing less than creating a world in which \u201cuncertainty is eliminated.\u201d Our wide-eyed Candide through this technological wonderland is a new employee named <---C>Mae Holland</---C>, who starts at the bottom of the Circle in Customer Experience. \u201cOh my God,\u201d she says on her first day. \u201cIt\u2019s heaven.\u201d (Dramatic irony +1.) As the weeks pass, Eggers buries poor Mae beneath an ever-expanding range of technological distractions: On two, three, four, finally nine different monitors, she must answer customers\u2019 questions while monitoring their satisfaction on a 100-point scale, fill out online surveys, rate people\u2019s photos, respond to preference choices piped into her earpiece, \u201czing\u201d out newsy tidbits about her activities, swap messages with \u201cfriends,\u201d and send \u201csmiles\u201d or \u201cfrowns\u201d to help various social causes. In this del.icio.us satire of corporate culture, everything is rated, ranked and evaluated for continuous improvement. Whenever Mae raises any questions about the Circle\u2019s inanity, glossy folks from HR sweep in to counsel her toward enlightenment. But she keeps poking around the dark underbelly of the headquarters, not knowing what she might StumbleUpon next. Because \u201cThe Circle\u201d is all about its argument, the characters are Super Mario-deep, and the novel doesn\u2019t have as much plot as it has momentum. The corporation rolls out one miraculous new service after another, from cheap little Web cameras to monitor every spot on Earth (no more crime!) to ingestible sensors to track children\u2019s movements (no more sex abuse!). Everything the Circle does is guided by the founders\u2019 culty belief in the boundless benefits of information and the flattering notion that \u201cthe world needs to know .\u2009.\u2009. your opinions on just about everything.\u201d Pushing aside her nagging suspicions, Mae cashes in the bitcoins of her soul and helps the company develop its Orwellian principles: SECRETS ARE LIES SHARING IS CARING PRIVACY IS THEFT Like some tweeting thought-leader from Babel, one of the Wise Men announces, \u201cWe will become all-seeing, all-known.\u201d The grand promise of happier living, better health and especially easier purchases overwhelms any concern about the loss of confidentiality. Your space is MySpace. \u201cThe momentum crushed all such arguments,\u201d Eggers writes. \u201cIf you weren\u2019t operating in the light of day, what were you doing in the shadows?\u201d Politicians who dare to object soon find their browser caches laced with incriminating pornography. The only flickr of hope in this story comes from Mae\u2019s parents, who are struggling with bills and chronic illness. Though initially proud of their daughter, they provide a powerful counterpoint to her enthusiasm for the Circle\u2019s enervating distractions, its presumption that we\u2019re just \u201ca matrix of preferences.\u201d Before this apotheosis of consumer culture, they stand aghast at the way privacy and intimacy have been replaced by a synthetic community of \u201cfriends.\u201d Given how self-evident these satiric points are, though, it\u2019s a shame Eggers can\u2019t trust his readers more. We hardly need Mae\u2019s ex-boyfriend to look directly into the novel\u2019s webcam and hector us like some Luddite preacher. The clever writer who once dazzled us with mercurial emotions, ironic asides and rambling footnotes in \u201c A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius \u201d is now painstakingly explaining such dead-obvious symbols as an omnivorous, translucent shark that one of the Wise Men keeps in a giant aquarium. Part of respecting privacy might be leaving readers space to draw their own interpretations. (Please retweet!) On the other hand, who can afford subtlety in these latter days of Jenna Marbles and apps for babies? \u201cThe Circle\u201d is \u201cBrave New World\u201d for our brave new world \u2014 and let\u2019s be frank: Aldous Huxley\u2019s classic is no model of understatement, either. Now that we all live and move and have our being in the panopticon, Eggers\u2019s novel may be just fast enough, witty enough and troubling enough to make us glance away from our twerking Vines and consider how life has been reshaped by a handful of clever marketers. I\u2019m not worried about giving away the end of \u201cThe Circle\u201d because we\u2019re already living it. There may come a day when we can look back at this novel with incredulity, but for now, the mirror it holds up is too chilling to LOL. ...more as zeitgeisty as they come and just as flawed. eggers' prose is a bit too ordinary, his characters seem just smart or clueless enough to conform to plot machinations, and the masses appear as neo-marxist caricatures of 'the masses' with only a select few white-hat-wearing good guys able to catch a glimpse outside the ol' cave. the riches contained within (and they are aplenty) deserve a more thorough and complete treatment. the circle probably deserves 3.5, but i round up as this is just an incr as zeitgeisty as they come and just as flawed. eggers' prose is a bit too ordinary, his characters seem just smart or clueless enough to conform to plot machinations, and the masses appear as neo-marxist caricatures of 'the masses' with only a select few white-hat-wearing good guys able to catch a glimpse outside the ol' cave. the riches contained within (and they are aplenty) deserve a more thorough and complete treatment. the circle probably deserves 3.5, but i round up as this is just an incredibly entertaining, creepy, and - i cringe to use the word - important book. ...more My rating: 1 of 5 stars I received this book free from LibraryThing in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review. In the world introduced in \u2018The Circle\u2019, individuals become completely transparent and are stripped of their anonymity even when performing menial tasks. Mae Holland has just secured a position with The Circle thanks to her friend Annie, a high-ranking employee at The Circle. Mae\u2019s involvement in the company slowly begins ove My rating: 1 of 5 stars I received this book free from LibraryThing in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review. In the world introduced in \u2018The Circle\u2019, individuals become completely transparent and are stripped of their anonymity even when performing menial tasks. Mae Holland has just secured a position with The Circle thanks to her friend Annie, a high-ranking employee at The Circle. Mae\u2019s involvement in the company slowly begins overtaking everything and without stopping to consider, her entire life ends up being put on display for anyone willing to see. \u2018TruYou changed the internet, in toto, within a year. Though some sites were resistant at first, and free-internet advocates shouted about the right to be anonymous online, the TruYou wave was tidal and crushed all meaninful opposition. It started with the commerce sites. Why would any non-porn site want anonymous users when they could know exactly who had come through the door? Overnight, all comment boards became civil, all posters held accountable. The trolls, who had more or less overtaken the internet, were driven back into the darkness.' So essentially the only people that truly care about privacy in this world are trolls and people who view porn online. Everybody else is fully willing to give up their privacy. Right. Because that\u2019s totally legit. And comment boards became civil overnight all because people\u2019s real names were disclosed thus insinuating that the only thing encouraging people to state their opinions on the Internet was their anonymity? And I loved how the creation of the Unified Operating System, also known as TruYou, which basically took all user accounts and passwords and made them into one all encompassing login, revolutionized the Internet and prevented identity theft. You\u2019d think if you only had one single password it\u2019d be easier rather than more difficult to hack someones information but maybe we\u2019re not supposed to think too hard on these technological creations of Eggers, especially considering his supposed lack of research on the subject. ( \u201cThere were a handful of times when I looked something up, or asked the opinion of someone more tech-savvy than I am, but for the most part this was just a process of pure speculative fiction.\u201d - Source ) His lack of research is abundantly clear with the naming of his main invention, Unified Operating System, which isn\u2019t even an Operating System at all. Windows? OS X? Linux? Android? Those are Operating Systems. Computer software that manages the computers hardware. For someone that decided to write a 504 page book dedicated to technology I would have expected him to know that at the very least. It\u2019s obvious that Eggers himself harbors a deep dislike of technology and the way the Internet is growing and expanding in society as that\u2019s the way it was written, in a smug and dismissive manner. Each time Mae\u2019s ex-boyfriend Mercer makes an appearance the opportunity is taken to preach his opinions about her job and what companies like \u2018The Circle\u2019 are doing to this world. It\u2019s clear Eggers is the embodiment of Mercer and he used that character to push his agenda which is completely fine by me, but the opinions of technological advances were written as black and white where people are either completely for or completely against those advances. Personally, I found myself in a grey area and I\u2019m doubtfully the only like-minded individual. Setting all that aside I really have to mention the worst thing about this book: the sex scenes. Not only was there a completely unnecessary romance, but the embarrassingly graphic sex scenes told from the point of view of a female were awful (not to mention the scene where Mae walked in on her parents? Served absolutely no purpose to the advancement of the storyline.) Maybe it would\u2019ve been better if the main character was a male and Eggers could have made it sound like he has a modicum of sense in regards to what goes on in the bedroom. The bothersome descriptive words makes me hope someone will steal that man\u2019s thesaurus. Here a few cringe-worthy examples: \u2018Then his eyes closed, and he went into paroxysms, emitting a brief squeal before grunting his arrival.\u2019 Squeal? Grunting? ARRIVAL? No, no, no. \u201cSometimes,\u201d he said, and breathed fire into her ear. My. That sounds painful. \u2018She could think only of a campfire, one small log, all of it doused in milk.\u2019 Okay, maybe this is a little out of context and hard to understand but there had just been an embarrassing sexual situation where the man was a bit too\u2026 quick with it. And Eggers uses a \u2018small log\u2019 and \u2018milk\u2019 as the descriptive terms. Good grief, NO. The Circle is at times a bit of a satiric story on the technological advances in this day and age but does manage to bring up some points that would be worth discussing. If it was a non-biased written interpretation on the future possibilities of technology it could have been well received (by me) but as it stands it was written too much like The Circle was \u2018Big Brother\u2019 and everything associated with technology is inherently bad. The laughable ending which involves robot drones directed by social media hordes that essentially cause a murder only solidified my displeasure. ...more Imagine a character named Mark Holland. He's easily manipulated, does anything anyone tells him, is constantly worried how others see him, constantly thinks he's going to be fired even though he meets the company's expectations, and when he gets 97% approval rating he becomes convinced that the 3% expressing disapproval obviously want him dead and are plotting to murder him. He listens to people spout off distorted, uncomfortable bullshit, takes it all in, and says with wide-eyed wonder \"You are Imagine a character named Mark Holland. He's easily manipulated, does anything anyone tells him, is constantly worried how others see him, constantly thinks he's going to be fired even though he meets the company's expectations, and when he gets 97% approval rating he becomes convinced that the 3% expressing disapproval obviously want him dead and are plotting to murder him. He listens to people spout off distorted, uncomfortable bullshit, takes it all in, and says with wide-eyed wonder \"You are a genius.\" Sounds like a bit of a tool, doesn't he? Well now imagine that character's name is Mae Holland. What's your thoughts on the above characteristics when they're attributed a woman? Do they suddenly seem....natural? Expected, even? Excuse me while I vomit. I'm not saying all female characters should be ballbusting HBIC \"strong female character\" stereotypes. I'm all for well-rounded women. The problem is Mae isn't well-rounded at all. So here we have Dave Eggers looking at a genre (the digital world) that is mostly dominated by male protagonists (occasionally you get that tech-savvy female sidekick like in Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore or the GwtDT trilogy but even then it feels like the author is asking for a pat on the back for being so very groundbreaking and open-minded) and going \"Hm I need a protagonist who is easily manipulated and brainwashed. Obviously it can't be a guy because that's not the story I want to tell. It must be a girl.\" Gross. Okay so you've got Mae. You've got her ballbusting HBIC \"strong female character\" stereotype best friend, Annie. You've got her automaton coworkers and bosses. You've got the Zuckerbergesque founder who stays in the shadows. You've got his \"face of the company\" partners. You've got the ex-boyfriend who starts out as the only voice of reason in the whole damn book. You've got the sickly parents whose souls Mae sells to her company. And then, because she is a Leading Female Protagonist, you've got not one but two guys who are polar opposites who basically spend the whole length of the novel trying to get into her pants. Both succeed. Both are utter tools. One of them has a \"secret identity\" that I figured out about 100 pages before it was revealed and I thought to myself \"if this guy is who I think he is I'm going to throw this book across the room.\" If it had been my own personal copy, I totally would have. My literal reaction was: I was so angry I really almost did throw the book in spite of the fact that it belongs to a coworker. So yeah, you've also got not one but two White Male Saviour characters(the ex-boyfriend and one of Mae's beaus), one of whom (view spoiler) [dies (hide spoiler) ] and the other of whom (view spoiler) [is ultimately disregarded as a lunatic (hide spoiler) ] . Admittedly that second spoiler is one of the reasons I gave this book two stars instead of one. Mae finally FINALLY stops being manipulated by everyone around her and makes her own decision and reveals what her personality is (so far all we know of her is what other people foist upon her): her personality is the sort that wants everyone else to tell her what her personality is. W O W. Okay so the other reason this book got two stars from is that in spite of everything it's an intriguing plot and the action was intense (and infuriating) enough that I kept going through all 500 pages. And the ending, like I said, was slightly satisfying inspite of the \"surprise\" not being a surprise at all. And there is a repeating theme of Mae getting panic attacks that feel like a black tear opening inside her that can only be quenched by the devouring monotony of consumerism. The imagery was so vivid that I felt like a panic attack was imminent myself. But let's get back to the bad stuff. Leaving aside the anti-feminist vibes I was getting the entire time, there were so many things about this world that had me questioning the validity of it all. Because everyone has one account with one password and their real identity for all of the internet, identity theft no longer exists. Um, what? Wouldn't that make identity theft EASIER? Also because anonymity no longer exists, people are nice (oh except when they're not but Mae doesn't acknowledge that) and no one ever says anything nasty about anyone ever again. W H A T? And then there's the bit at the end with the all-devouring shark that is such a heavyhanded metaphor for The Circle that I would like Mr. Eggers to know that hey guess what your readers really aren't that stupid that you needed whatshisface to explain it at the end. Oh gosh my real name is attached to this review and I just said something negative about someone. Guess that whole \"anonymity makes people assholes but being watched makes everyone magically nice\" idea doesn't actually work, does it? Now if you excuse me I'm moving to the middle of nowhere where there is no internet or people or anything and I'm gonna earn my living by making chandeliers out of deer antlers.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Once upon a time, we used to think about the future and the many wonderful things we would be able to do online, and we used to say 'one day we'll be able to do this.' and now we live in a time period where the mentality's changed from 'one day we'll do it' to 'now we can do it, and we should. ' And we mostly do that without pausing to wonder what the repercussions may be. The Circle explores this idea with stomach-churning gusto. The Circle is a disturbing book, not only because of the troubling Once upon a time, we used to think about the future and the many wonderful things we would be able to do online, and we used to say 'one day we'll be able to do this.' and now we live in a time period where the mentality's changed from 'one day we'll do it' to 'now we can do it, and we should. ' And we mostly do that without pausing to wonder what the repercussions may be. The Circle explores this idea with stomach-churning gusto. The Circle is a disturbing book, not only because of the troubling ideas and themes described within, but more importantly, because we live in a world where The Circle (a clear surrogate for Google) could easily happen. I cannot begin to mention the number of times I stopped and thought 'wow, this could happen right now and no one would bat an eyelash.' In fact, a chase near the end of the book brought to mind the Reddit manhunt for the Boston bombers. It's a timely book, almost terrifyingly so. Halfway through the book, I'd mentioned that this is 2013's 1984. At the time, I wondered if it was exceedingly high praise. But by its end, I was sure of it. This is a book that will cause you to pause repeatedly while reading it, pondering if the tale it tells isn't so far removed from the world we're living in right now, and that maybe - just maybe - we're just as doomed. Essential, essential read. ...more I hate books with unlikable characters. The mere fact that it took me 14 days to finish this short novel clearly means that something bad was going on. The novel didn't captivate me in any way possible. The premise was great, but the execution was laughable. The Circle is a company wherein transparency is the natural law whereas secrecy is the eternal sin. An employee is trained to be competent in their jobs but they are also required to be socially active in the company. They have a facebook-lik I hate books with unlikable characters. The mere fact that it took me 14 days to finish this short novel clearly means that something bad was going on. The novel didn't captivate me in any way possible. The premise was great, but the execution was laughable. The Circle is a company wherein transparency is the natural law whereas secrecy is the eternal sin. An employee is trained to be competent in their jobs but they are also required to be socially active in the company. They have a facebook-like thing going on where people \"zing\" each other and also give \"smiles\" and \"frowns\" to further expose their lives. At first it was still a bit normal for Mae to succumb to such demands, but as the novel progressed, the company showed its true colors. It was seriously stupid of Mae to answer about 900+ survey questions in one sitting. I know it's important for them to socialize and know more about each other, but the way they did it was just wrong and I would've left the company right away. The Circle at first seemed like it was just concerned that Mae wasn't being socially active with her workmates, but it slowly turned into insanity. The Circle seemed like it had a world of its own. Actually that's the most plausible description of it. They were constantly trying to boost their scores by updating and interacting with people in the company. Their main priority was fellow workmates. Life in the outside world was indirectly mandated as their least priority, Even family was to be considered less important than the company itself. The only thing missing would be for them to call themselves a country already, or why not a planet. For me the sense of privacy is very important. I know celebrities naturally tend to get less of this, but The Circle was just plain old absurd. I know this thin could happen in the near future, and i hope that people wouldn't be dumb enough to accept this as something normal. There is a difference between being sociable and being completely transparent. There's no need to know everything about a person, and personal information shouldn't be readily available to be viewed online by anyone. Let me add in that the camera and mic shit going on with Mae in the near end was the epitome of absurdity. She was one of the most stupid characters ever. Why in the world would you allow your life to be documented and broadcasted live online 24/7? It's different with reality tv shows because those things are scripted anyway. What Mae did was basically showering naked on stage 24/7 everyday. The theme was great for me because like I said earlier, the possibility of this happening is not that unlikely. Unfortunately there were plenty of problems with the novel itself. The plot had no sense of pacing. It's not fair to make the readers read about Mae's first week for almost 300 pages long. 100 pages would be pushing it, but Eggers decided what's more fun than elaborating further how amazing it would be to work in The Circle. I almost didn't finish this novel because of the boring first half of the novel. Eggers should be thankful that I was a bit more patient with this one. Another awful thing would be the terribly boring characters. Mae was one stupid piece of transparent poop who should never be allowed to live in real life. If we have a Mae in real life, then humanity is truly in danger. Annie was a bit interesting at first, but once The Circle was introduced she proved to be no different. She was also pretty damn stupid. All the people who were above Mae were also damn boring. From Dan to Alistair to Jared, they were all typically the same characters with different names. Same goes for Mae and Annie. Redeeming qualities? The whole idea of The Circle itself. While I stated above how opposed I was, all I'm saying is that the author tackled on a topic that I'm really interested in. What Eggers managed to fail at would be the characters and the pacing. Some parts were too long, and the good parts were also too short. May I add in that Mae's decision in the end completely destroyed whatever character development there was beforehand. Before I end this review, let me add in the fact that I'm still excited to watch the movie because Emma Watson is going to star as Mae. Hopefully the movie would be a lot better than this, but I'm not getting my hopes up. I really hope they would change the latter 3/4 of the novel though. 2/5 stars. Tempted to give this a 1 star but I didn't really hate the novel that much. If only the characters were more interesting, this would've been a 3 or 4. Some of my friends enjoyed this a lot so I guess don't be scared to give this a try, but I'm clearly not recommending it. ...more Facebook Bad. Twitter Bad. Oh wait, we all know that, that's why we're drawn to its dark, dark powers. We love to be frightened by a totalitarian regime based on widespread shaming and a few likes. Seriously, this book has some really great prose going on, imminently readable, with wonderful characters and a very good progression of plot... kinda like sitting in the cold water as a pot starts heating up. We see all the great stuff that this new omnipresent social media/accounting has brought to us Facebook Bad. Twitter Bad. Oh wait, we all know that, that's why we're drawn to its dark, dark powers. We love to be frightened by a totalitarian regime based on widespread shaming and a few likes. Seriously, this book has some really great prose going on, imminently readable, with wonderful characters and a very good progression of plot... kinda like sitting in the cold water as a pot starts heating up. We see all the great stuff that this new omnipresent social media/accounting has brought to us, with mini cameras shareable as Facebook apps, fantastic data-sharing apps, and, of course, 1984. This book takes it all the way, giving us the step by step progression of great ideas and then knocks on our door, meeting us with a huge shark face and a bunch of shark poop trailing behind him, telling us how much he loved our neighbors. It's not impossible. I mean, we've had great ideas turn into amazing nightmares ever since we started telling stories. I appreciated the inversion of David Brin's completely visible society, the running with the ball almost all the way through the novel, and then, SLAM, it's taken down in a paranoid frenzy, at least for the reader, telling us to be scared. Sure, it makes for a scary dystopia. The points made on either side of a complete accounting of evil-doing is pretty powerful, and timely, and well written. Unfortunately, the only thing that prevents me from giving this a full 5 stars is the fact that it's pretty old news. :) And I don't believe that a company called The Circle would ever have gotten as far as it did. It was a nice thought experiment, though, and pretty decent SF. Or wait, was this supposed to be Mainstream? Sheeet... nah, this was pretty much entirely SF. Firmly in the category of Cautionary Tale. Trying to convince me of something in a dramatic way. Okay! Got it! Now where should I put this Cautionary Tale? Um.. under popcorn fiction? Um, fairly amusing Social Media Slamming? Cultish Brainwashing? Golly... I have so many choices. The dark ending might get people upset, but I'm fine with it. It's an old established rule for this type of tale. At least it's updated for Social Media versus the horrible, horrible effects of TV watching for ultimate brainwashing techniques, or the fact that radio signals are sent out there to reprogram our brain waves (and hence the tin-foil hats) or the fact that the cotton gin is destroying the working man and we must all rise up and destroy all such machinery, now, now, NOW! Of course, Frankenstein was a good tale in this vein, too, as was LoTR, so perhaps it doesn't rank up with the very best, but I can say that The Circle was entertaining, though. :) ...more \u201cWe all know we die. We all know the world is too big for us to be significant. So all we have is the hope of being seen, or heard, even for a moment.\u201d Wow, what a read! It\u2019s been a little while since I\u2019ve given a read 5 stars, so I\u2019m feeling a bit like: I went into this one a little tired from the mild let-downs that some of my more recent reads have been and wanting to take a quick breather from my list of upcoming pre-release 2016 reviews. (This one was released in 2013.) I am delighted to \u201cWe all know we die. We all know the world is too big for us to be significant. So all we have is the hope of being seen, or heard, even for a moment.\u201d Wow, what a read! It\u2019s been a little while since I\u2019ve given a read 5 stars, so I\u2019m feeling a bit like: I went into this one a little tired from the mild let-downs that some of my more recent reads have been and wanting to take a quick breather from my list of upcoming pre-release 2016 reviews. (This one was released in 2013.) I am delighted to say that this novel, The Circle by Dave Eggers, really blew me away! I felt like it\u2019d been a while since I read a novel that actually lived up to its blurb (and more), so I was thrilled about that, not to mention wholly enamored with this world that Eggers constructed. The Circle is the new-age Animal Farm meets \u201cThe Yellow Wallpaper,\u201d a read reminiscent of 1984 where Eggers provides a fresh mirror in which to see ourselves and our culture in a startlingly accurate light, in a kaleidoscope of scenarios that straddle the line between personal rights and rights of commerce, the greed of cultural extravagance and the effect of e-media inundation on our lives. While, at the same time, we watch Mae\u2019s slow and complete decent into some millennial version of madness. I loved it! First off, let me say that the lack of chapter markers was a smart play. The format threw me off balance, which kept me on my toes, a useful trick in a read like this. Or as one character put it: \u201cI want you on your toes, off-balance, intimidated, handcuffed and willing to prostrate yourself at my command.\u201d It also did an exhilarating job of reeling me in as a reader, making it hard for me to pull back, fully immersing me in the on-campus world through Mae\u2019s eyes. It was like I could feel my own slow inundation with The Circle, which, of course, made the implications as they unfolded a little horrifying, the thought of this utterly realistic and culturally possible phenomenon actually happening. The completely bizarre started to become normal, sounded like it really made sense. Of course everyone should know everything! Of course we should do everything we can to keep children safe (including planting tracker chips in their arms at birth that they can't even remove in adulthood)! Hmph, must be how cults are formed. Here, Eggers offered a view of our world like Big Brother on steroids. Embedded in the fact that the Google-like company mostly employed millennials\u2014and that we millennials are known for our social media voraciousness and oversharing\u2014it comes off as a totally plausible alter-universe that Mae has stumbled upon when she arrives, both to herself and to the reader. If you\u2019re a typical millennial, read it and take pause. If you\u2019re not\u2014especially if you\u2019d classify yourself a Luddite\u2014read it and weep at this completely conceivable, totally creepy, new-age possibility. The Circle was comical in its realistic nature, life-like in the way that the interactions between characters were played out. Here you\u2019ll find competition in a survival-of-the-fittest sort of way reflected in passages that unnerve while being so relatable that they\u2019re undeniable. Here Eggers brushes up against classism, caste, struggling to belong and competition, whether healthy or not: \u201cAnnie still held some particular status. Again Annie\u2019s lineage, her head start, the varied and ancient advantages she enjoyed, were keeping Mae second. Always second, like she was some kind of little sister who never had a chance of succeeding an older, always older sibling.\u201d Eggers pushed situations to a brink that you might be tempted to label over-the-top, but he did so in a way that was contemporary social commentary at its finest. Even Mae\u2019s interactions with the people around her\u2014all strange in their own way\u2014ring hilariously true, from frustrating reprimands from the boss who\u2019s drank too much of the company Kool-Aid to clumsy sex in a dorm (and even a cave, who hasn\u2019t done that, right)? Mae was a realistic 24-year-old character\u2014still bright-eyed and bushy tailed, initially worried about her student loans and her parents\u2019 health and well-being, feeling weighed down by her responsibility as an only child, and that contributed immensely to the direction that the plot took, as we see her being stripped down to conform to a new mold. I loved watching her and being a part of her world. In fact, Eggers wrote a world that I wished I was a part of, one of the reasons that we read in the first place. He constructed a world where social media reigns supreme, where privacy is the enemy, an awesome looking glass of us all being reduced to screen-scrolling sheep. \u201cHere\u2026there are no oppressors. No one\u2019s forcing you to do this. You willingly tie yourself to these leashes. And willingly become utterly socially autistic. You no longer pick up on basic human communication clues. You\u2019re at a table with three humans, all of whom are looking at you and trying to talk to you, and you\u2019re staring at a screen, searching for strangers in Dubai.\u201d Imagine a world where e-media and all-encompassing surveillance are the prime forms of communication and interaction across the globe. It\u2019s also how you vote, how you pay your taxes, how you shop online. Your social media profile is how the world\u2014the government, even\u2014sees you. You\u2019re now living in \u201c\u2026the world\u2019s first tyrannical monopoly.\u201d That\u2019s a scary, chilling thought that Eggers executed fluidly, with clarity and intrigue. With mounting anxiety, both on the part of the reader and the main protagonist, Mae, until\u2026until it all seems perfectly normal. And that\u2019s the scary part. I knew that this one was getting 5 stars from about the mid-way point, and hoped that it wouldn\u2019t disappoint with some hastily done bow-tie ending or weak sort of sputtering out like it was tripping over the marathon finish line. But, it did not. It held up its end of the bargain, so I\u2019ll hold up mine: a well-deserved 5 stars. ***** To see more reviews, go to the blog: The Navi Review at www.thenavireview.com and follow the blog on Twitter @thenavireview ...more A deft and timely novel that reads like modern day Orwell, to make Christopher Hitchens or Walker Percy proud. Eggers tells the story of Mae, newly employed by the Circle, a tech monopoly that seems to neatly encapsulate Google, Microsoft, Linked In, Facebook and Scientology all in one. While the ending seemed anti-climactic and rushed, this is a near perfect mirror held up to, and satire of, our current social media and digital obsessions, monopolies like Amazon and Apple and our willingness to A deft and timely novel that reads like modern day Orwell, to make Christopher Hitchens or Walker Percy proud. Eggers tells the story of Mae, newly employed by the Circle, a tech monopoly that seems to neatly encapsulate Google, Microsoft, Linked In, Facebook and Scientology all in one. While the ending seemed anti-climactic and rushed, this is a near perfect mirror held up to, and satire of, our current social media and digital obsessions, monopolies like Amazon and Apple and our willingness to accept the end of privacy. And yes, I'm fully aware of the irony that I'm posting a positive review like this to a social media site. While I'm sure part of my enthusiasm for this book stems from already being intellectually in step with the views espoused, it's no less thrilling to see them so well put. Timothy Leary's dictum needs to be re-worked into something like \"tune OUT, turn OFF, drop out\" -- and read this book. Buy the print edition, from an indie bookseller and pay cash. (Or get it from a public library -- where they still don't share information with the state or consumer groups. For now?) ...more The Hook - The story goes like this. I run into a guy who used to be in my non-fiction book group, one who I miss for his eclectic reading and bold opinions. We catch up on what\u2019s happening in his new career, prior insurance man turned security tech in a large company, so much more exciting than my retirement. I mention how the loss of privacy in my daily life due to the use of social networking and the Internet bothers me and that I wonder at where we are heading. He immediately says \u201cHave I go The Hook - The story goes like this. I run into a guy who used to be in my non-fiction book group, one who I miss for his eclectic reading and bold opinions. We catch up on what\u2019s happening in his new career, prior insurance man turned security tech in a large company, so much more exciting than my retirement. I mention how the loss of privacy in my daily life due to the use of social networking and the Internet bothers me and that I wonder at where we are heading. He immediately says \u201cHave I got a book for you!\u201d His son, a college student working as an intern for a government agency with hopes to become an agent of some sort was required to read The Circle . When I was a student in the LPN program we were required to read Coma by Robin Cook. I hoped the relevancy was as easy to connect between my required reading and this would be agents assignment to read The Circle . Thanks for bearing with me as the path to a book is explained. The Line - \u201cKnowledge is property and no one can own it.\u201d The Sinker - OMGoodness. I have never hated a book as much as The Circle and continued to read. I don\u2019t swear but I wanted to. It is like a contemporary 1984 only oh, so much worse. The world depicted here is scary, plausible, and even probable and I want to keep the circle open before it\u2019s too late. And yet, isn\u2019t technology and the social world it allows, wonderful? With the circle closed it would be possible for true equality; everyone would have the best health care, equal access to services. There would be no kidnapping, no rape, pedophiles would be identified in a snap, criminals couldn\u2019t hide, missing children would be a thing of the past and so much more. But what\u2019s the price? This circle should remain unbroken. Oh, and did I mention that The Circle could have been a contender to win The Guardian\u2019s Bad Sex Award in the year it was written? I\u2019m glad I\u2019ve given up on stars as this one defies me. At least I can now say I have read Dave Eggers. ...more You can get scared or act fearless and laugh, but listen to Silicon Valley getting hammered on a grand scale! No, not that hammered! Hammered over the head ... thump... thump... thump style! The protagonist is a young woman, Maebelline Renner Holland who lands a poshy job at The Circle - the biggest internet interactive company in the world with its dreamscape buildings filled with ten thousand of the world's young techno gurus changing the way the world operates by working on the Second Enlighte You can get scared or act fearless and laugh, but listen to Silicon Valley getting hammered on a grand scale! No, not that hammered! Hammered over the head ... thump... thump... thump style! The protagonist is a young woman, Maebelline Renner Holland who lands a poshy job at The Circle - the biggest internet interactive company in the world with its dreamscape buildings filled with ten thousand of the world's young techno gurus changing the way the world operates by working on the Second Enlightenment. This is a huge WHAT IF- book. WHAT IF- the entire world's human population can be put under surveillance and willingly become transparent? WHAT IF- Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, Microsoft, Yahoo, banking sites, government, hospitals, doctors, schools, universities, and EVERYTHING ELSE active on the internet, combine to operate under one umbrella, controlled by The Circle? What if participation, even chipped for life, become compulsory and privacy a criminality? WHAT IF- all searches in the world could go through The Circle, all competitors can be devoured and the flow of all information can be controlled by just one company? Every individual in the world could be monitored: DNA profiling, monetary transactions, health issues, history, social activities, thoughts, geographical movements? WHAT IF- the world's social media could create a safer and safer world? where openness is all and truth has its own merit? WHAT IF- democracy can be taken online, where all human residence of the world are registered under their legal names and control their participation in all walks of life with one password for all? Is mob rule such a bad thing? WHAT IF- the human mind, which is delicately calibrated to function between the known and the unknown, where the souls need the mystery of the night and the clarity of day, are reprogrammed to function in ever-present daylight? Will there be time to reflect, to cool, to sleep? It's all about communication and community, with the Latin word 'communis' as the root of all activities. An infocommunism, where knowledge is property and freely available to anyone? Everybody becomes equal and citizens of The Circle. COMMENTS A highly entertaining, thought-provoking read; a plausible fantasy; a scary hypothesis. I dare to think there's a touch of satire present as well. I sincerely hope so! The protagonist was more a super celebrity, with gift bags intact, than anything else. A conformists and attention lover. I thought the author did this on purpose to include the Hollywood-craze of young limelight-seekers that will do anything to stay on top of their game, or something. This book, a little too long for my taste, was more about the information than the characters or plot, but leaves a wealth of questions and possible answers behind. All I know is that in the real world, 6 and a half billion people won't stand for it .... uhummm...well....yes... I hope I'm right! Well, I'm ZINGING.............. OUTTTTTTTTTTTTT..... as fast as possible!!! And don't you dare send your drones in ... :-)) RECOMMENDED. ...more \u201cSuffering is only suffering if it's done in silence, in solitude. Pain experienced in public, in view of loving millions, was no longer pain. It was communion.\u201d \u2015 Dave Eggers, The Circle (***1/2) A solid, just not great social network dystopia. Imagine FB::Google::Amazon take over the world. There is nowhere left to hide. No secrets. No privacy. No down time. In fact, \"SECRETS ARE LIES, SHARING IS CARING, PRIVACY IS THEFT.\" While it is interesting, and does seem to mimic some of the warnings of \u201cSuffering is only suffering if it's done in silence, in solitude. Pain experienced in public, in view of loving millions, was no longer pain. It was communion.\u201d \u2015 Dave Eggers, The Circle (***1/2) A solid, just not great social network dystopia. Imagine FB::Google::Amazon take over the world. There is nowhere left to hide. No secrets. No privacy. No down time. In fact, \"SECRETS ARE LIES, SHARING IS CARING, PRIVACY IS THEFT.\" While it is interesting, and does seem to mimic some of the warnings of Brave New World , 1984 , Neuromancer and even elements of Ghostwritten . In the end, it just isn't Eggers' best work. It is at once more superficial, more clean, more predictable than I would have liked. Don't get me wrong, I think Eggers is a genius. I think he has an amazing energy and impeccable timing. He seems to deliver a novel or book at almost exactly the perfect moment for publication. He is a nifty zeitgeist surfer. He catches the waves easily and seems to ride every wave of the literary ocean. Impossible? I know, but his production is large, his interests varied, his fingerprints are everywhere. I guess the problem (for me) is that Dave Eggers is almost the exact opposite of Mark Twain. Mark Twain failed twice at both printing and publishing, but wrote amazing and important works. I think Eggers (with his McSweeney's success, his amazing ability to adapt, his tendency to swim with the currents, to be infinitely relevant, completely likable) is able to do almost everything ... except make me completely love his writing or get drunk off his prose. I always finish his novels/books neither surprised, awed or completely fed. I just feel the need to go read something else, something with heft that isn't looking to the future or the past, left or right, and actually doesn't really give a flying-F if you 'LIKE' it. ...more Basically a campfire tale for introverts. A great setup in the first couple of dozen chapters then nothing really happens until the end of the book. Straw men are setup, then methodically sliced back into straw. Lectures are delivered, lessons are learned or not depending on what point was being made in the most recent or next upcoming lecture. Sort of like Ayn Rand writes a Michael Crichton type thriller but without any action or plot. One time I heard art described as something that causes a rea Basically a campfire tale for introverts. A great setup in the first couple of dozen chapters then nothing really happens until the end of the book. Straw men are setup, then methodically sliced back into straw. Lectures are delivered, lessons are learned or not depending on what point was being made in the most recent or next upcoming lecture. Sort of like Ayn Rand writes a Michael Crichton type thriller but without any action or plot. One time I heard art described as something that causes a reaction in the audience. From that point of view this must be high art indeed as people seem to either love it or hate it. Glad I read it to see what everyone is talking about. But in the end, it was pretty underwhelming with little understanding or sympathy with anyone who engages with the book from a different point of view and little real persuasiveness toward the point of view it so desperately is trying to promote. On the positive side, the narrator is fantastic. I will certainly look for more by the same man. ...more I'd be the first to admit that Dave Eggers' writing can be quite facile ( The Circle is certainly evidence of that), but love him or hate him, he sure can tell a story. His long (500 page) yet breezy reimagination of a Google-esque company controlling every aspect of our lives provided probably the most fun I had reading fiction this year (2013). Watch as protagonist Mae gets hired at \"The Circle\", quickly works her way up the ranks, and loses her mind trying to amass as many \"smiles\" and 100s as I'd be the first to admit that Dave Eggers' writing can be quite facile ( The Circle is certainly evidence of that), but love him or hate him, he sure can tell a story. His long (500 page) yet breezy reimagination of a Google-esque company controlling every aspect of our lives provided probably the most fun I had reading fiction this year (2013). Watch as protagonist Mae gets hired at \"The Circle\", quickly works her way up the ranks, and loses her mind trying to amass as many \"smiles\" and 100s as possible while her company systematically strips away the populace's right to privacy. Fun, and really creepy, as long as you don't spend too much time thinking about its plausibility. (Don't forget to click the \"like\" button below...my very soul depends on it). . . . . . . . (What? You didn't like my review?!? How can I do better? I need that \"like\", please.) ...more Having read the reviews by critics stumbling over each other to praise how \"edgy\" and \"prophetic\" this book was, I borrowed it from the library (if I'd paid the ridiculous $17 for this book, I probably would have sat down and cried). The only thing good about this book is David Eggers writing ability. He's clearly an extremely skilled writer and it's a credit to him that I managed to finish this to the end. He could write about going to the bank and make it readable and interesting (and would pro Having read the reviews by critics stumbling over each other to praise how \"edgy\" and \"prophetic\" this book was, I borrowed it from the library (if I'd paid the ridiculous $17 for this book, I probably would have sat down and cried). The only thing good about this book is David Eggers writing ability. He's clearly an extremely skilled writer and it's a credit to him that I managed to finish this to the end. He could write about going to the bank and make it readable and interesting (and would probably be better than this book). The main character, Mae, brings to mind wooden, one-dimensional female characters such as Bella from Twilight and the central character of 50 Shades of Grey. She's a plain, boring girl from Fresno but all men fall in love with her, everyone wants to be her friend, everything she does is amazing and exceptional, and everyone just finds her so fascinating. She never question the increasingly ridiculous scenarios in the book. In fact, no one does. Except for a couple dozen people in the entire world, EVERYONE is completely happy to have chips embedded in their children, cameras put in every room of their house, and mandatory enrollment in the system for everyone on Earth. This book makes an Ayn Rand novel seem subtle and thoughtful. It gets so ridiculous that halfway through it reads like a goofy book your Grandpa wrote about Interwebs Boogeyman. I also don't understand the people calling this a thriller. It certainly builds up like one, hinting at an uprising of people against the Circle. It builds and builds with increasingly stupid scenarios. Then it ends. It hints at the start of a climax in the story arc and then 2 pages later it just ends, abruptly. It's the first half of a book. A $17 first half of a book. Please don't spend your hard earned money on this. And hopefully Eggers goes back to writing solid books and stops this fascination with the Old White Male Authors Against The Internet club.... ...more If there were a few of the books I read this year that were impactful, this was one of them! Seldom have I read a novel that terrified and overwhelmed me so much but that also speaks the very important truth. \"The Circle\" has so many similarities to \"1984\" by George Orwell - actually, I would call it a modern retelling of \"1984\" - and Dave Eggers does a fantastic job at creating a dystopian society which could very well be reality some day. Mae is the protagonist of this story and she's hired in If there were a few of the books I read this year that were impactful, this was one of them! Seldom have I read a novel that terrified and overwhelmed me so much but that also speaks the very important truth. \"The Circle\" has so many similarities to \"1984\" by George Orwell - actually, I would call it a modern retelling of \"1984\" - and Dave Eggers does a fantastic job at creating a dystopian society which could very well be reality some day. Mae is the protagonist of this story and she's hired in The Circle, a large, influential enterprise that moves forward with its ideas like a runaway train that no one can seem to stop. The Circle works with ways of using the Internet and the connection between humans in order to facilitate life for everyone, and Mae is thrilled when she's first hired. It's awe-inspiring how Mae changes during this novel and becomes the kind of person that we can all end up becoming if we aren't careful. At times, she seems so oblivious that it is kind of ridiculous, but only because she's encaptured in this disturbing society and way of thinking in a way that makes it impossible for her to break out. One of the strongest feats of this novel is that it's for everyone: women, men, children and elderly people can benefit from reading it, and everyone should, because that's how important and impactful of a work it is. I'm in awe, and I know that this book will stay will me for a long long time to come, simply because it is disturbing and impactful, yet so true and important. ...more The Circle , a commentary on transparency and a person's \"online life\" vs. \"real life\", follows the most naive college graduate in history as she effortlessly navigates herself from a bottom-rung customer service position at the world's leading \"technology company\" into its inner, ahem, circle, in what seems like just a few weeks. Mae is yet another faceless main character in a book that serves to allow the reader to insert his- or herself into the narrative, a current trend which unsurprisingly The Circle , a commentary on transparency and a person's \"online life\" vs. \"real life\", follows the most naive college graduate in history as she effortlessly navigates herself from a bottom-rung customer service position at the world's leading \"technology company\" into its inner, ahem, circle, in what seems like just a few weeks. Mae is yet another faceless main character in a book that serves to allow the reader to insert his- or herself into the narrative, a current trend which unsurprisingly makes for terrible writing, an overworked storyline, and heavyhanded metaphors (a transparent shark!). What IS surprising here is that Dave Eggers, usually one of my favorite authors, wrote this novel. His previous books, including A Staggering Work of Heartbreaking Genius, What is the What, and Zeitoun , are must-reads, but with The Circle , Eggers seems like he's phoning it in, pumping out a book in order to take advantage of the news cycle and the debate about transparency that has been rumbling in the undercurrent of the media for quite some time now. It is obvious with the description of the \"campus\" and the various amenities that its workers are afforded that The Circle is meant to reflect Google (though Eggers reminds us in its first few pages that Google, Facebook, and their ilk have been swallowed by The Circle's vast archives after it surpasses them all) much in the same way that the Vince Vaughn's latest flop was meant to reflect the company: in vast generalizations, with no focus on the programming or the algorithms and little focus on the real effect that absolute loss of privacy has on citizens and their governments. This book would have been better had he simply cut out the fictional crap and focused on his long, long monologues (which scream author's opinon! author's opinion!) on the debate between freedom of information vs. loss of privacy. I'm going to be honest: I picked up this book at Barnes and Noble despite its bad reviews because I really liked the cover, and that remains the best part of the book for me. Hopefully Eggers' next novel will be better conceived and more reflective of his vast talent. ...more Egersov roman \"Krug\" bi lako mogao da se nazove \"1984\" za 21. vek. O\u010digledno je da je ovo vizionarsko delo bilo Egersovo upori\u0161te, samo \u0161to je on nu\u017eno morao da osavremeni Orvelove ideje i da ih upakuje u sveop\u0161tu kompjutersku globalizaciju. Glavni lik ovog romana je mla\u0111ahna Mej Holand koja, da bi pobegla od svoje malogra\u0111an\u0161tine, \"prodaje svoju du\u0161u\" internet kompaniji \"Krug\". Iako kompanija deluje poprili\u010dno humanisti\u010dki, ispod njene naizgled transparentne povr\u0161ine kriju se totalitaristi\u010dki po Egersov roman \"Krug\" bi lako mogao da se nazove \"1984\" za 21. vek. O\u010digledno je da je ovo vizionarsko delo bilo Egersovo upori\u0161te, samo \u0161to je on nu\u017eno morao da osavremeni Orvelove ideje i da ih upakuje u sveop\u0161tu kompjutersku globalizaciju. Glavni lik ovog romana je mla\u0111ahna Mej Holand koja, da bi pobegla od svoje malogra\u0111an\u0161tine, \"prodaje svoju du\u0161u\" internet kompaniji \"Krug\". Iako kompanija deluje poprili\u010dno humanisti\u010dki, ispod njene naizgled transparentne povr\u0161ine kriju se totalitaristi\u010dki porivi. Pojavljuje se osoba koja bi \u017eelela da podrije temelje \"Kruga\", a Mej ne zna \u010demu da bude odana: poslu, sebi ili svetu koji je navodno po\u010deo da se pobolj\u0161ava... Gledano u globalu tematika romana je odli\u010dna - bavi se pitanjima gubljenja intime, globalne kompjuterizacije, transparentnosti,... i mislim da je odli\u010dan tajming u kome se ovakav roman pojavio. Ima tu veoma interesantnih kompjuterskih appova koje je Egers zamislio, ali deluje kao da bi se u realnom svetu svaki od njih oteo kontroli i po\u010deo da nervira \"obi\u010dnog\" \u010doveka koji po ro\u0111enju nije dete kompjuterske generacije, a nije ni ovisnik o internetu i dru\u0161tvenim mre\u017eama. \u0160to se likova ti\u010de, skoro svi su jednodimenzionalni, iritantni, i imaju tendendciju da nerviraju.... a u toj iritantnosti ih predvodi sama Mej sa njenom naivno\u0161\u0107u francuske sobarice i spremno\u0161\u0107u da \u017ertvuje vlastiti \u017eivot i ono malo privatnosti i dostojanstva koje ima. Roman na momente deluje preduga\u010dko (ima tu nekih vi\u0161kova koji su komotno mogli biti izostavljeni), me\u0111utim, ideja romana i njegova poruka u svakom slu\u010daju zaslu\u017euju ovu trojku. ...more The Circle by Dave Eggers is a 2013 Knopf publication. This book was recommended to me by someone recently, but I wasn\u2019t sure if it was really my kind of book. Many folks had marked it as \u2018Dystopian\u2019 and I\u2019m not as big on that trend as everyone else, so I waffled a little, but ultimately chose to borrow it from the library. Reading the editorial reviews, one described this book as a parable. I can\u2019t think of a more apt word than that for this novel. Even in just three short years, since this boo The Circle by Dave Eggers is a 2013 Knopf publication. This book was recommended to me by someone recently, but I wasn\u2019t sure if it was really my kind of book. Many folks had marked it as \u2018Dystopian\u2019 and I\u2019m not as big on that trend as everyone else, so I waffled a little, but ultimately chose to borrow it from the library. Reading the editorial reviews, one described this book as a parable. I can\u2019t think of a more apt word than that for this novel. Even in just three short years, since this book was published, many of the very things the novel cautions us about are coming to fruition. Frankly, this book was rather startling and scarier than anything I could have chosen in the paranormal or horror genre. This is an interesting expose that naturally conjures up images of various \u2018tech campuses\u2019, and our loss of privacy in the social media age. There are interesting parallels and a lot to mull over in this cautionary tale, and overall, the story is well written, suspenseful, and doesn\u2019t seem all that far -fetched, in fact much of it is plausible, which is what I found so disturbing about it. While this sort of book is not usually my cup of tea, and you won\u2019t see me searching out similar material anytime soon, I have to confess I liked the book better than I thought I would, and can understand why is was recommended to me. It is definitely thought provoking, chilling, and had me turning and tossing for a couple of nights wondering if we are heading in exactly this direction\u2026. 4 stars ...more So now it's a movie with Tom Hanks and Emma Watson? Ahh well then! ----- Not sure if this author has plagiarized, but here's an article that mentions it. \u2018The Circle\u2019 Author Dave Eggers Denies Reading Facebook Memoir That He\u2019s Accused Of Plagiarizing - http://techcrunch.com/2013/10/02/dave... Wrote the review below before I had any knowledge so my review is unbiased. ---- Set in the near future, Mae wants something better than being an I.T. worker at a utility company in her small town. With the help So now it's a movie with Tom Hanks and Emma Watson? Ahh well then! ----- Not sure if this author has plagiarized, but here's an article that mentions it. \u2018The Circle\u2019 Author Dave Eggers Denies Reading Facebook Memoir That He\u2019s Accused Of Plagiarizing - http://techcrunch.com/2013/10/02/dave... Wrote the review below before I had any knowledge so my review is unbiased. ---- Set in the near future, Mae wants something better than being an I.T. worker at a utility company in her small town. With the help of her friend from college, she lands a job at the Circle, a cutting edge Internet company. Will she realize that her world is literally plugged in and the consequences to those actions are dire? Um wow. This book was crazy. Crazy and realistic! If 1984 was set in our times, it would have this world.. Our world. The Circle is a company that is at the forefront of every technological advancement in the world. They have combined all accounts that anyone will ever need into one and in doing so have eliminated the need to remember accounts and passwords. That is one of the major projects they do. And it's not even the scariest. TruYou: one account to use for all your needs. Makes it mandatory to get so voter turnout will be 100% TruYouth: plugging babies with a tracking device so they will never be abducted or kidnapped. Parents will know where they are at all times. PastPresent: archiving the world's photos to fill in holes and complete history's ancestry. LuvLuv: no need to find out or ask your date for their interests or hobbies. With one search you can find it all SoulSearch: With the help of everyone in the world, to track down criminals and fugitives Demoxie: making secrets a crime, having everyone wear a camera around their chest so everyone and anyone can see what they're doing at any given time. The premise in this book could be alternative future, where one company has amassed to become a monopoly even higher than governments. And being masked as a Utopian is really a totalitarianism\u00a0 government. I am legit scared.. Some projects and services are just so real. Like the Go Pro video camera service that we have in real life? There's one in this book. And the combination of raising your social media presence is also apparent in here. Except it's part of her job. The book barely has a plot. Unless you really want to find out who Kalen really is. That was my biggest downfall with this. Lack of story-line and character development. Because this is all about showing and telling. Showing how wrapped up she is in their world and how she loses her independent thought. It was like watching a cult form around her and I was pretty much horrified at what happens in the end. Predictable but still horrified. There was also no mention of her family by the end of the book which I was looking towards a conclusion. The parallels and the ultimate need to know everything and document everything in the history of humankind is kind of a crazy endeavor. And how exactly would anyone accept the transparency of the entire government? Obviously those are absurd, but this is Eggers fictional world and not real life. The Circle will make you question how you use social media, and what companies really do with the information they amass about your shopping and interests. In a connected and plugged in world, it feels like our reality isn't so far off.. ...more As a novel this huge piece of work has almost too many faults to name, but Eggers\u2019 imagination and style makes the experience of reading or listening to it a special kind of pleasure. Filled to the brim with fledgling discussions of privacy, freedom, fairness, democracy, and control, the novel has in its DNA all the previous great works who have posed the questions \u201cWhat is privacy and is it good?\u201d and \u201cWhat is democracy and is it good?\u201d and \u201cWhat is personal freedom and is it good?\u201d This is a lo As a novel this huge piece of work has almost too many faults to name, but Eggers\u2019 imagination and style makes the experience of reading or listening to it a special kind of pleasure. Filled to the brim with fledgling discussions of privacy, freedom, fairness, democracy, and control, the novel has in its DNA all the previous great works who have posed the questions \u201cWhat is privacy and is it good?\u201d and \u201cWhat is democracy and is it good?\u201d and \u201cWhat is personal freedom and is it good?\u201d This is a long but easy read because it brings us a glimpse of a world many of us have only heard about and yet cannot help but be intensely curious about: the campuses of the technology giants like Google or Facebook. The company in this novel is called The Circle, based loosely on what is known of the more famous real life companies. We have heard enough, perhaps, to know Eggers is not making all of this up: the campus, company structure, and internal reporting requirements are drawn (and undoubtedly exaggerated) from life. But the mania and mindthink of bright young things anxious to gain approval in a large, successful, innovative, and fast-moving company is perfectly believable. Eggers creates a character, Mae, who unwittingly is drawn into becoming the \u201cvoice\u201d of the company philosophy. Her answers to carefully-posed questions by the company leadership become soundbites and her not-well-thought-out responses are said to exemplify what humans really want. Her soundbites are then clipped and pasted to the walls of the media space created by the company as though to she expressed the unfettered will of all the people, when in fact, Mae had been groomed, prodded, bullied, corrected, corralled into making the utterances that became an command that could not be challenged. I enjoyed Eggers\u2019 imagination and willingness to engage the important subjects of technology, privacy, education, and democracy but grew weary before the end. This may be a great book for teens who may have a larger appetite for the glamour of high technology campuses and need a point hammered home by a thousand blows. Part of the story is that of Mae developing a crush on someone she does not really know, as well as instructive incidents ill-considered sex with someone she doesn\u2019t even like. These ring true, as does the celebrity side of Mae\u2019s meteoric rise to stardom at The Circle. Certainly the questions at the heart of Eggers book are not merely for teens. The pace and direction of our lives leaves little doubt that technology has changed concepts of privacy, celebrity, and participatory democracy. These are issues we need to consider now. Opting out of the whole system is not really a possibility. In Eggers book, the person who tried to opt-out did not end well and he ended early. Eggers also points out that our politicians are not going to do this for us, being \u201cbought\u201d as it were by corporate interests. This is up to reasonable people taking reasoned positions and fighting like hell. ...more I had a BLAST with this book! OUTSTANDING KNOCKED-MY-SOCKS-OFF-GREAT!!!!!!! Its a fabulous Satire with a cautionary tale! --\"Sharing is Caring\"??? --\"Secrets are lies\"??? --\"Privacy is theft\"??? In the Jewish Religion -- Education is important. We are taught, \"Learn in order to teach\". (pass on knowledge). In \"The Circle\" --their was a line which made me think about traditional religion: Here's the line: (taken OUT of context to the 'whole' of the story) \"I understand that we're obligated, as humans I had a BLAST with this book! OUTSTANDING KNOCKED-MY-SOCKS-OFF-GREAT!!!!!!! Its a fabulous Satire with a cautionary tale! --\"Sharing is Caring\"??? --\"Secrets are lies\"??? --\"Privacy is theft\"??? In the Jewish Religion -- Education is important. We are taught, \"Learn in order to teach\". (pass on knowledge). In \"The Circle\" --their was a line which made me think about traditional religion: Here's the line: (taken OUT of context to the 'whole' of the story) \"I understand that we're obligated, as humans, to share what we see and know. And all knowledge must be democratically accessible.\" \"We all have the right to know everything we can. We collectively own accumulated knowledge of the world.\" [I laughed to myself when I read that line --then said to myself --sounds like being Jewish]....lol Back to This Book: (things to think about) What are the costs for 'staying connected'? What are the costs of sharing? Letting the entire world in on your life? If you've nothing to hide--so what??? hm??? I highly recommend \"The Circle\"! THE BEST MODERN SATIRE!!!!!! Its company mission is: \"Passion & Participation. They advocate 'Collective Knowledge', Collective Sharing' -- TRANSPARENCY. The 'Circlers' (people who work at \"The Circle), are an inspiration when they Open themselves UP -- willing to share their life to further collective knowledge. They are assets to humankind! --- In the fun of this page-turning novel: You'll discover what a *Tru-You* account is: singular online identity anonymity account. (sound interesting?)---and what the benefits would be. You'll learn about SUPER-DUPER CAMERAS the size of lollipops for only $59. AND..... You'll get to know *Mae Holland* intimately!!!! (The 24 year old 'newbie' to \"The Circle\")! To Buy the book: Contact \"The Circle\" Company. Its a HOT NEW STORE! (found ---'everywhere') DAVE EGGERS is a genius and must be WAY TOO much FUN!!!! ...more If you took the book \"1984\" and put it in today's world with the internet and technology, this book would be well titled as \"1983\". Just like anything that turns into a complete clusterfuck, it all has to start somewhere. And, usually the beginnings of said CF's come from well-meaning people who are trying to do something helpful and then it goes slowly bad. I mean, most cult-leaders are described as \"charismatic and charming\" at first. They start out all candy and unicorns, but then a year late If you took the book \"1984\" and put it in today's world with the internet and technology, this book would be well titled as \"1983\". Just like anything that turns into a complete clusterfuck, it all has to start somewhere. And, usually the beginnings of said CF's come from well-meaning people who are trying to do something helpful and then it goes slowly bad. I mean, most cult-leaders are described as \"charismatic and charming\" at first. They start out all candy and unicorns, but then a year later you find yourself worshiping snakes, giving your 12-yr old daughter to someone's married grandpa as his second wife, and deciding that mass suicide IS a good idea if the government ever decides to try and take your guns. Well done, Dale. Cut through the crap! You just know that all of these dystopian societies started with some great ideas to help everyone and make life better. It's all Hey, our kids need to get outside and play more one day, then the next thing you know: If they opened with that, it never would have caught on... So, our protagonist is Mae, who is in her 20's and very insecure. She is coming from the opposite side of what we are used to in these novels as she is totally on board with TeamDystopia. She gets her validation from strangers on-line and is desperate to do a good job for the future Big Brother boss. And, really this is a refreshing point of view. How often do we get to see the other side of the picture? Those people who worked hard to build the dome, arrange the class systems, set-up a giant maze, or give everyone tattoos to make things easier? A little respect for the hard workers who got things done. looks like someone's not a team player.... Mae gets this great job at the Circle, which is basically the evil version of Google with a side of Twitter. She wants to do a good job, but that means not only doing her job but being completely immersed in Circle society. She doesn't have to participate in the social activities outside of work, but is strongly encouraged to. As a matter of fact, they pull her into the boss's office to ask her why she dared to spend the weekend at her parent's house instead of socializing at work. They stress that it isn't required, but if she wants to succeed in the company... they ate their parents.. So Mae gets deeper and deeper into the Circle until she becomes the poster-girl for the company and agrees to wear a camera around her neck in the name of \"transparency\". Then she finds that her contacts in real life are, for some reason, uncomfortable around her. She even has an ex-boyfriend who tries to reason with her: \"It's not that I'm not social. I'm social enough. But the tools you guys create actually manufacture unnaturally extreme social needs. No one needs the level of contact you're purveying. It improves nothing.\" \"..like everything else you guys are pushing, it sounds perfect, sounds progressive, but it carries with it more control, more central tracking of everything we do..\" But, Mae is indoctrinated. Completely sold on the idea of giving up privacy in order to fix society's ills. She considers the knowledge and experiences of each person to be rightfully shared with the world. She even comes up with their catchy new slogan: Privacy is theft . And since she got a lot of \"likes\" for this idea, she feels pretty good about it. So, I guess the next reasonable step in this society is to come up with the group uniforms that seems to always happen in dystopias. I vote for them to be black. It's a slimming color. ...more", "Title": "The Circle"},
