{"Comments": "The elegantly worded <+++>The Language of Flowers</+++> made me invest quite a lot during the first chapters, but gambled all my affection away later on. I will try to explain how this unceremonious drop around the middle of the story came to pass after introducing Victoria to you. There is nothing victorious about Victoria apart from the fact that she survived to see her eighteen's birthday. Even social worker Meredith sees her only as a failure she personally doesn't deserve. A dark blotch on her white s The elegantly worded <+++>The Language of Flowers</+++> made me invest quite a lot during the first chapters, but gambled all my affection away later on. I will try to explain how this unceremonious drop around the middle of the story came to pass after introducing Victoria to you. There is nothing victorious about Victoria apart from the fact that she survived to see her eighteen's birthday. Even social worker Meredith sees her only as a failure she personally doesn't deserve. A dark blotch on her white sheet of professional accomplishments: For Victoria has been a foundling baby, abandoned at an age that usually makes finding families willing to adopt an easy task. But somehow Victoria left and was made to leave foster family after foster family,<---M> fought in between for affection</---M>, food and physical integrity among cruel or indifferent caretakers and fellow foster kids as emotionally messed up and adapted to the loveless situations of their short lives as herself, botched up her last and only chance at a permanent solution at the age of eleven, drove Meredith crazy for the remaining seven years by countless court trials and group home fights and now, on her eighteen's birthday, the day the State of California finally rids itself from the responsibily of its parentless ward's well-being, she does not react as frightened and subdued as Meredith wished her to. On the contrary: She does not use her final three months time in the transition home to hunt for a job and find a room. She spends her days stealing flowers from communal flower beds and people's gardens to plant them in milk cartons, unconcerned about flooding and molding the carpet. On the day of her eviction into unassisted adulthood Victoria takes her flowers and moves into the concealed shrubbery of the town's recreactional area. Hunger and cold do not drive her into wanting to change her homeless lifestyle, but fear of physical abuse does, when drunk men invade her fragile sanctuary at night. Though paperless she persuades an overworked Russian florist Renata to take her on as a weekend assistant by demonstrationg her astonishing knowledge about flowers and her extraordinary skill at creating bouquets.<---F> So far so good</---F>. Now you would think you will see the friendship between Victoria and her new boss grow and grow and grow, some relapses to occur, love to enter her life in small, hesitant steps \u2026 Yes, I agree, that would maybe mean walking the edge of tear-jerker-like soppy, drenched in the sickly smell of forget-me-nots and red roses. But I did not expect the story to rely so heavily on flashbacks to Victoria's time on Elizabeth's vine-yard - which triggered her all-consuming obsession about the meaning each decorative plant used to have in European culture \u2013 that climax in revealing the outrageous reason for the planned adoption to go amiss (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [Her actions made me really irrevocably hate Elizabeth. That was inexcusable to do to someone who felt loved and wanted for the very first time (hide spoiler) ] and for Victoria to go finally - and understandably - feral. My initially strong connection to Victoria slowly began to unravel, when she starts to get to know / date Grant, a young flower-farm owner she fleetingly knows from her childhood. I understood her reserve, her mistrust, her outstretched feelers. But I resented her self-centered, cat-and-mouse-style behavior (view spoiler) [ and it really failed me how she first sleeps under Grant's kitchen table to protect herself from him and has him sleep outside the house while she locks all doors, but suddenly decides to let him use her body without really wanting him and without spending even half a thought on contraception. There must have been dozens of pregnant or infected girls in the foster homes to observe. (hide spoiler) ] . A friend of mine said Diffenbaugh's style reminded him a lot of the novels by Sarah Addison Allen . I do understand, because the works of both contain dark pasts and the woven-in magic of fruits or flowers or gardens. My association goes into a different direction, though: The heroine Victoria and her actions reminded me the most of is Carly from Raw Blue by Kirsty Eagar . If you liked the romance in that novel, you might enjoy Victoria's and Grant's love-story as well. The last thread between Victoria and me was torn when she declines everyone's help (view spoiler) [ during her pregnancy and especially after the birth of her daughter (hide spoiler) ] , but selfishly makes the persons around her maintain, support, sacrifice, worry, plan and work for her even more than if she had accepted being advised and assisted right in the beginning. Why does she stop working? (view spoiler) [Why does she move back into the forest during her pregnancy, depriving her unborn kid of warmth, vitamins and proper nourishment needed to thrive inside her womb? (hide spoiler) ] She could have managed. And why does she start her own and illegal wedding flowers business \u2013 a bitter competition to her boss' business when she could have just asked Renata to integrate her unique service into her shop's palette for a more generous salary? Since she was still using Renata's wholesale card to buy the flowers she needed, Renata could have easily done her in by simply reporting her to the authorities. (view spoiler) [Plus, I hated the exclusiveness, that garantees her only successful mouth-to-mouth propaganda: She decides only to carter to couples who look like they will stay together, which later could be attributed to Victoria's choice of flowery accessories. The bouquets themselves are prepared by homeless girls, because only the flowers' happiness-inducing magic will be important for the wedding. How the bridal centerpiece looked and smelled and lasted, is of no concern whatsoever. A highly unlikely concept in my opinion. I, personally, would never, ever use Victoria's \"Message\" service. If I wanted, I could look up any flower's meaning by myself and I would not pay attrocious prices to have clumsily gathered mosses and leaves on my dinner table. (hide spoiler) ] I need to stress that I actually have thought maybe it's me, maybe I have just not enough stomach lining and empathy for the broken mind of someone with a devastating childhood. The author information at the end of the book mentions that <---A>Vanessa Diffenbaugh</---A> has personal first-hand experience with raising foster kids. Apparently she gave home to one or more. After reading the book I do not question that at all. But when I compare my reading experience of The Language of Flowers to that of other stories featuring difficult or hard-to-like main characters, I am sure that a truely skillful author can make me feel and ache and root for any protagonist, no matter how strange or evil. I have just finished reading Froi of the Exiles (yes, it is Fantasy, I know). Fact is, when I was reading the volume preceeding it, I would have never guessed Melina Marchetta would get me to like him. Now I love him fiercely . Maybe his personal growth is fantastical, unrealistic, but maybe it is simply magic. The kind of magic only the best authors can evoke in a reader's mind. Because of that believe I do not feel any reservations to rate the second half of this book only with two stars in contrast to my four star expectation in the beginning. Completely off-track, but on my mind: If you like flower-shop-based plots, you might perhaps enjoy the Japanese movie Oto-na-ri . It is about a lonely thirty-something florist and a celebrity photographer, who dreams of shooting Canadian landscapes, living wall-to-wall in an apartment building without meeting each other. It is sad and funny and bittersweet. I loved it. A lot of thanks go to Netgalley and to the publisher, Random House, for giving me access to an electronic review copy in exchange for this honest review. ...more Too much folding! \u201cHe folded himself into a chair. She folded her feet beneath her. He folded over in exhaustion placing his head on the table. She folded over in pain. She folded herself underneath the bush.\u201d How about: \u201cHe sat in a chair. She pulled her feet beneath her. He slumped over in exhaustion. She bent over in pain. She curled herself underneath the bush.\u201d Really, another verb is needed here and fold/ed was most overused. Yes, I am nitpicking, but since I was bothered enough to comment, Too much folding! \u201cHe folded himself into a chair. She folded her feet beneath her. He folded over in exhaustion placing his head on the table. She folded over in pain. She folded herself underneath the bush.\u201d How about: \u201cHe sat in a chair. She pulled her feet beneath her. He slumped over in exhaustion. She bent over in pain. She curled herself underneath the bush.\u201d Really, another verb is needed here and fold/ed was most overused. Yes, I am nitpicking, but since I was bothered enough to comment, the overuse of it was noticeable and bothersome. Synopsis: Foster child ages out of the system, plants a garden in a city park, sleeps under a bush. Meets a florist who gives her a job, meets a man, rents a tiny blue room. Gets pregnant, runs away to sleep under the bush. Has baby, runs away to sleep under the bush. Give baby away. Happy ending. The problems I have with this are that there isn\u2019t any reason for any of the people who help this girl to want to help her. She snarls and sulks and is so hard and distant that I was left wondering why any of these people wanted to be around her let alone assist her. No one knows her sad/bitter/hostile history and she isn't talking so why should they feel anything for her? It didn\u2019t appear that under all her anger that there was a gentle caring person. She seems more that if you scratched the surface, first of all, you\u2019d definitely get scratched back, but that under that tough exterior, you\u2019d find something even harder and more unyielding. Can\u2019t say that I liked Victoria much. So can you enjoy a book when you don\u2019t really like the protagonist? I find it can be difficult, but in the hands of a crafted writer, you can still enjoy the story. I didn\u2019t find that to be true here. For me, the story would have been better told in third person. I think some distance between Victoria\u2019s mean thought process and the reader would have helped. I didn\u2019t much like being in this misanthropic head and I didn\u2019t get any idea of anyone else\u2019s motivation for caring for her. Why did Renata hire her? Yes, she\u2019s a magical flower genius, but why would she want this girl around, glaring at her customers? Yes, lots of glaring. And Grant, why is he attracted to her? Does he have a thing for mean women? More snarling and glaring. He seems like a very gentle soul to be that way, didn\u2019t understand what he saw in her, other than her ability to send messages by flowers. Victoria\u2019s negativity was so over the top. She finds out she\u2019s pregnant and hates the idea of a baby, but won\u2019t get an abortion because the idea that someone else would have control over her body for the time it would take to get the thing out (that\u2019s how she thinks of it) is too horrid for her to think about. She is offered medical benefits by her employer, but instead she runs away to live under a bush. No, I am most certainly not kidding. Having decided to have the baby and afterward figure out what she\u2019s going to do with it, she gets no prenatal care, not even bothering so little as to pick up a bottle of prenatal vitamins at the drugstore. No, she\u2019s too busy hiding under the bush. And she spent hours in the library comparing flower meaning dictionaries(and countless hours photographing flowers with old time camera which she spends money on the film development even though she has very little money), but didn't bother to read one single book on pregnancy or child care. So, again, not that first doctor visit and she knows a midwife, willing and ready to help her, but she doesn\u2019t want that either. She\u2019s going to give birth at home, alone, all by herself, because ... I have no idea what is wrong with her at this point. Many people have shown her that they care about her, that they\u2019re willing to help her, but she can\u2019t accept it. I get that we\u2019re supposed to believe that she\u2019s so broken(she was an abandoned baby who never found a real forever home) that she sees herself as unworthy of anyone\u2019s concern, but how it came off to this reader is that she\u2019s too selfish and stubborn to do what\u2019s right. This is when my connection to her broke down completely. Also, after hiding in the bush, she comes back, continuing to hide while also building herself an amazing floral designing business. Uh-huh. I believe my suspension of disbelief was at the breaking point by this time. Well, what a surprise, she isn\u2019t able to have the baby all by herself so she gets help and after a week(during which she doesn't bother to even name the child), she gives it away (not for adoption), even though she could have asked for help, could have at the very least told someone when that person is there, in the room with her, asking her how she\u2019s doing, that she wasn\u2019t doing well. But no, she cannot do that. I have no idea why. And no one, not one single person, asks her where her child went. Not one. Did she bury it in her garden in the park? Toss it in the ocean? Where is it? I know this is fiction, but that can't excuse complete disregard for life as it is or common sense. It's based in the real world. If a woman had a child she didn't want and that child disappeared a week later, that woman is going to be getting a serious visit from the police. Yet, she comes back without the child, glares all round, states that she won't talk about it and they all accept it. Really? REALLY? I can\u2019t recommend this one. Too irritating in style, characterization and unlikely plot. ...more Can't remember when I've read and enjoyed a story as much as Victoria's. She stole my heart from the beginning and I only grew to admire and love her more with each page. There were times when I wanted to shake her and yell at her to wake up and get a grip. Just when I thought she wouldn't, she did just that. Amazing story of survival, love, and strength. The flowers add so much depth and feelings to this story that I was enthralled by it all. Just an amazing and wonderfully well written book wi Can't remember when I've read and enjoyed a story as much as Victoria's. She stole my heart from the beginning and I only grew to admire and love her more with each page. There were times when I wanted to shake her and yell at her to wake up and get a grip. Just when I thought she wouldn't, she did just that. Amazing story of survival, love, and strength. The flowers add so much depth and feelings to this story that I was enthralled by it all. Just an amazing and wonderfully well written book with a full bouquet of heart touching moments to remember and treasure. ...more Sorry if I post this review twice. I somehow \"lost\" the one I was writing. This book is the darling of book clubs all over the country but I found it to be insipid and flawed. It showed great promise for about the first third. Diffenbaugh seemed to show an accurate and heartbreaking portrait of a young girl who is let down by the foster care system. She is angry and damaged. This was believable and felt very real. The rest of the book didn't make a lot of sense to me. This broken young woman is sa Sorry if I post this review twice. I somehow \"lost\" the one I was writing. This book is the darling of book clubs all over the country but I found it to be insipid and flawed. It showed great promise for about the first third. Diffenbaugh seemed to show an accurate and heartbreaking portrait of a young girl who is let down by the foster care system. She is angry and damaged. This was believable and felt very real. The rest of the book didn't make a lot of sense to me. This broken young woman is saved and loved by many people as she embarks into her new life as an emancipated adult. Why? She's dirty and slow to communicate. She disappears without explanation. She isn't at all loveable. The author has quite a few errors in grammar (where was the editing?) and overuses some verbs. I was very tired of characters being \"startled\" for instance. I also felt that the use of foreshadowing was done with a very heavy hand. I didn't need to be clobbered over the head with it. A subtle hint would have been enough. This author shows promise but this novel is over-rated. ...more \"The Language of Flowers\" by Vanessa Diffenbaugh I loved this book from the beginning and didn\u2019t want it to end. I have always had a fascination with knowing the names history of flowers and plants and love finding them in natural surroundings. This book, The Language of Flowers by Vanessa Diffenbaugh, (whose name is similar to the dieffenbachia plant) had such a moving story line in telling the story of Victoria, from her abandonment at birth, through childhood abuse, to her orphanage experience \"The Language of Flowers\" by Vanessa Diffenbaugh I loved this book from the beginning and didn\u2019t want it to end. I have always had a fascination with knowing the names history of flowers and plants and love finding them in natural surroundings. This book, The Language of Flowers by Vanessa Diffenbaugh, (whose name is similar to the dieffenbachia plant) had such a moving story line in telling the story of Victoria, from her abandonment at birth, through childhood abuse, to her orphanage experiences and her difficulties in forming and maintaining relationships. Victoria\u2019s life is portrayed with a depth of a feeling that pulls the reader into caring about this strange and sometimes difficult young woman. The story moves back and forth in time and place within the span of her life which brings greater meaning to why she behaves the way she does with people she meets. Victoria reminds me of several young people I have met and worked with over the years. They may be prickly but also may produce the most beautiful lives, just as some thorny plants produce soft and beautiful flowers. It is a story that can lift you up with expectation and hope, and than then bring you down and make you sad. It is a roller coaster ride of resiliency and success combined with sadness and disappointment. The idea of pouring over dusty and seldom read book after book in the personal pursuit of creating your own book of flowers and their meanings struck a cord with me. What a quiet and resolved drive and passion Victoria kept mentally reconnecting to her childhood to find understanding and meaning in her own life. There was a personal relationship with the flowers Victoria worked with and it was evident with all those who became involved in her world. \u201cThe flower you\u2019re looking for is clearly the common thistle, which symbolizes misanthropy. Misanthropy means hatred or mistrust of humankind.\u201d \u201cDoes humankind mean everybody?\u201d \u201cYes,\u201d \u201cI thought about this. Misanthropy. No one had ever described my feelings in single word.\u201d I received this as an early reviewer copy and appreciate the opportunity to have read this book. It is hard to believe that this was a debut novel and Vanessa\u2019s own experiences as a foster mother and teacher shine through in this novel. For me this was an outstanding selection and I will be recommending this book as a book club read. I rate it as a full 5 star book. ...more I have received many a horrified look when I have told people that I don't like red roses. Their expression of horror only got worse when I told them I much preferred yellow roses. I was always really confused as to why which flowers I liked would cause such a strong reaction. Then I read this book and found out. Translation Time. \"I don't like red roses\" = \"I don't like love\". \"But I love yellow roses\" = \"But I love infidelity\". o.O Now, I'm guessing that this wasn't actually the reason why the look I have received many a horrified look when I have told people that I don't like red roses. Their expression of horror only got worse when I told them I much preferred yellow roses. I was always really confused as to why which flowers I liked would cause such a strong reaction. Then I read this book and found out. Translation Time. \"I don't like red roses\" = \"I don't like love\". \"But I love yellow roses\" = \"But I love infidelity\". o.O Now, I'm guessing that this wasn't actually the reason why the looked at me in horror because...um, well, not many people know that flowers have meanings behind them never mind what they were. But I still thought it was interesting because red roses are always associated with romance and lurrrve. But anyway, that has nothing to do with this book. Well, it kind of does because it just shows how unique and interesting I found it. [FYI: My other two favourite flowers (Orchids and lilies) mean refined beauty and majesty respectively, so that's better :)] Anyway, I really really loved this book. I wasn't sure at first and that's why I put it off for so long, but once I picked it up I was completely engrossed. This book had a great dreamy almost magical realism feel about it. And magical realism is my favourite kind of realism. I love the characters, even when I hated them, and the writing was just glorious without being too... wait for it.... *cough* flowery . Ms Diffenbaugh's story was perfectly constructed; with all these little layers added on and meshed together. I think I loved the 'past' chapters marginally more than I liked the \"present\" ones, for I adored Elizabeth. But then we have Grant.... oh Grant. \u2665 \"For years my message-laden flowers had been faithfully ignored, an aspect of my communication style that gave me comfort. Passion, connection, disagreement, or rejection: None of these was possible in a language that did not elicit a response. But the single sprig of mistletoe, if the give did indeed understand its meaning, changed everything.\" *Girly sigh* Without spoiling it too much, I really loved the ending. Victoria is a flawed character and she is not always likeable. AT ALL. But I really appreciated the ending that she was given. I think I could have gone either way, but Ms Diffenbaugh chose the right one. Maybe it's just me, but I like it when books end with the beginning of a new journey. This review has kind of been thrown together, I apologise. This book deserves better but I thought I'd finish off by sending Ms D a little message.... of the floral kind, about my feelings about this book. *clears throat* Dear Ms Diffenbaugh, I present you with a trilliam to represent modest beauty . I was prepared for this book to lose me completely because of high-brow, literaryness, and get too tangled up in a vine-like metaphor. But it didn't. It's a very subtle and quiet book and it's wonderful. And I present you with some lupine which means imagination because wow, this premise was brilliant. I also give you a few yellow roses because, as we know, they could also represent jealousy . And I am jealous that I didn't come up with this story. *grumbles* I also present you with a purple rose, because this book had me enchanted . I also have this can of tinned pineapple (I'm sure it counts) which means \"You are perfect\" ... if you could just give that to Grant for me? Thanks. And, nearly done, here is some raspberry. Not to make a fruit salad with the pineapple but to represent remorse that it took me so long to read this book.... but you can eat it if you want. And lastly, I present you with a poppy because this book was fantastic . I received a copy of this book from the publishers. ...more Update: $1.99 Kindle special today. If any of my friends ( especially women friends), have missed reading this book.... now is a good time to buy it. Vanessa, the author, truly wrote a book about something she has direct experience with : The Foster Care System The LANGUAGE of flowers Location - San Francisco. Vanessa went to Standard- lived in the Bay Area ... and is very familiar with the SF Bay Area It's excellent - Her first book. My favorite book she wrote. I started this book today (On Valen Update: $1.99 Kindle special today. If any of my friends ( especially women friends), have missed reading this book.... now is a good time to buy it. Vanessa, the author, truly wrote a book about something she has direct experience with : The Foster Care System The LANGUAGE of flowers Location - San Francisco. Vanessa went to Standard- lived in the Bay Area ... and is very familiar with the SF Bay Area It's excellent - Her first book. My favorite book she wrote. I started this book today (On Valentines Day)....and its already warming my heart! I read more than half of it already! (too hard to put down) -----but now my husband is waiting for us to eat dinner --- (we already exchanged gifts: very sweet).... I LOVE LOVE LOVE this creative wonderful book! (I don't want it to end) As I said.....I LOVE this book! (everything about it)!!! ...more I received this book from Goodreads Giveaways. After my recent horrendous experience with The Rose Labyrinth , which had me wanting to claw my eyes out after four sentences, it was wonderful to come across a novel with such a graceful writing style that was apparent from the first page. For eight years I dreamed of fire. Trees ignited as I passed them, oceans burned. The sugary smoke settled in my hair as I slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as I rose. Even so, the moment my mattress I received this book from Goodreads Giveaways. After my recent horrendous experience with The Rose Labyrinth , which had me wanting to claw my eyes out after four sentences, it was wonderful to come across a novel with such a graceful writing style that was apparent from the first page. For eight years I dreamed of fire. Trees ignited as I passed them, oceans burned. The sugary smoke settled in my hair as I slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as I rose. Even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, I bolted awake. The sharp, chemical smell was nothing like the hazy syrup of my dreams; the two were as different as Indian and Carolina jasmine, separation and attachment. They could not be confused. That being said, I was really torn as to whether this was a three star book or a four star one. In writing style it was a four. I really found myself sucked into it; it only took me 6 hours to read, and that in one sitting. In the plot, it was a three. The first half of the book's story was very good; the second half had sort of a nosedive as it became more and more predictable. In character development, it was a four. Victoria was well written and well explored. She had believable positive and negative quirks in her personality. In love interest, it was a three. Victoria is fickle and nonsensical and acts completely out of character when it comes to love and sex. I'm not sure she really truly loves him (view spoiler) [but ends up with him?! (hide spoiler) ] Basically, I was torn. It was like drinking a soda. I loved, loved, loved the beginning of the novel. It was fizzy and exciting and interesting (even though I've read a lot like it). Then somewhere is started to fall flat. The predictability stopped being endearing and the characters became more obnoxious. ...more This book was to me, the language of growth, acceptance, and love and of coming home. I have many books on my shelf, but this one stood out simply as I remembered a quick line from a friend, saying she loved it \u2013 thanks Jools for this, and for my book. This was special, and did really suit me in the form of short intense chapters, alternating between the past and present. Tethering me somewhere between constantly feeling bereft yet hopeful, but precariously edgy. I did not put this book down on m This book was to me, the language of growth, acceptance, and love and of coming home. I have many books on my shelf, but this one stood out simply as I remembered a quick line from a friend, saying she loved it \u2013 thanks Jools for this, and for my book. This was special, and did really suit me in the form of short intense chapters, alternating between the past and present. Tethering me somewhere between constantly feeling bereft yet hopeful, but precariously edgy. I did not put this book down on many occasions. Lovely Victoria learns the art of flowers language from a young age, and we learn about her as she starts this life lesson. It was a continual blossoming, and the floral images amazing. I am not capable of even arranging a simple arrangement, but the imagery created for me was breathtaking and evocative. \u201cEven I didn\u2019t know how I would react on any given day. About our deepening relationship, I felt fear and desire in equal, unpredictable parts. At the end of each night he walked outside to wherever it was he slept, and I locked the door behind him\u201d. I want to see these blooms: \u201cI dipped my nose into the bouquet I\u2019d assembled. There was flax, and forget-me-not, and hazel. There were white roses and pink ones, helenium and periwinkle, primrose, and lots and lots of bellflower. Between the tightly wrapped stems I\u2019d packed velvety moss, barely visible, and I had sprinkled the bouquet with the purple and white petals of Grant\u2019s Mexican sage.\u201d This story was almost wrapped up too neatly, but it fit so well. I hope some of you read it, it almost smells so good! This author has weaved such a knowledge of her craft, and I now have my own copy of \u2018Victoria\u2019s Dictionary of Flower\u2019s\u2019 in the back of the book. No need to google images, this is better. ...more 4.75/5 edit: being made into movie \u2661 \"for eight years i dreamed of fire. trees ignited as i passed them, oceans burned. the sugary smoke settled in my hair as i slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as i rose. even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, i bolted awake. the sharp, chemical smell was nothing like the hazy syrup of my dreams; the two were as different as indian and carolina jasmine, separation and attachment. they could not be confused. standing in the middle of the 4.75/5 edit: being made into movie \u2661 \"for eight years i dreamed of fire. trees ignited as i passed them, oceans burned. the sugary smoke settled in my hair as i slept, the scent like a cloud left on my pillow as i rose. even so, the moment my mattress started to burn, i bolted awake. the sharp, chemical smell was nothing like the hazy syrup of my dreams; the two were as different as indian and carolina jasmine, separation and attachment. they could not be confused. standing in the middle of the room, i located the source of the fire. a neat row of wooden matches lined the foot of the bed. they ignited, one after the next, a glowing picket fence across the piped edging. watching them light, i felt a terror unequal to the size of the flickering flames, and for a paralyzing moment i was ten years old again, desperate and hopeful in a way i had never been before and would never be again.\" [ kate greenways's 1884 language of flowers ] vintage garden illustration ...more I don't really know what to write about this book. It was well-written, but I'm not sure I liked it. I didn't hate it, though. For me, it's one of those books that left me going, \"Umm...OK...\". I like the flower communication and all, but the whole story just sort of took some weird turns and ended up feeling like it wasn't going anywhere. And then it didn't. It just kind of ended. Meh. Orphaned at a young age, Victoria has been moved to different foster homes, rebelling with angry outbursts and never in one place long enough to establish any solid relationships. At the age of 10, she is taken in by a woman who teaches her the language of flowers and what each flower means. Through these teachings, Victoria is able to start positively communicating. However, when the relationship is threatened, she reverts back to behaviour that will cost her the safe haven she has found and sh Orphaned at a young age, Victoria has been moved to different foster homes, rebelling with angry outbursts and never in one place long enough to establish any solid relationships. At the age of 10, she is taken in by a woman who teaches her the language of flowers and what each flower means. Through these teachings, Victoria is able to start positively communicating. However, when the relationship is threatened, she reverts back to behaviour that will cost her the safe haven she has found and she retreats back into her own cold, dark world. It is through her passion of flowers she lands a job with a florist and is reunited with her turbulent past which she has difficulty reconciling her worthiness as a daughter, lover and mother. This is a story of healing and forgiveness and the power of love that is inherent in nature. I found the meaning of flowers fascinating and how they were used during the Victorian era as a means to express one's feelings for another. Wonderful read ...an easy 4 \u272e ...more Imagine a little baby as the seed of beautiful flower who travels from birth to fruition through orphanages, group homes, foster care and the social system of America, never falling in fertile soil to take route and thrive? But then, as destiny would have it, Victoria Jones lands on a flower and vineyard farm in California where the secrets of the Victorian Floriography of the plants is revealed to this girl who only understood the human language of rejection and unworthiness to be loved. She cl Imagine a little baby as the seed of beautiful flower who travels from birth to fruition through orphanages, group homes, foster care and the social system of America, never falling in fertile soil to take route and thrive? But then, as destiny would have it, Victoria Jones lands on a flower and vineyard farm in California where the secrets of the Victorian Floriography of the plants is revealed to this girl who only understood the human language of rejection and unworthiness to be loved. She claimed that she could not read or write, yet understood, and collected, books on botany which was her only real connection to the world and also the key to her psyche when she met Elizabeth on her farm. For the first time in her young life as a nine-year-old girl, Victoria's soul can be unlocked by a person who understood completely and spoke 'her' language. Through the language of flowers she reconnects to the world, learns to trust and forgive. The language of flowers was the only language she could trust. The one way of communication she could be totally honest in. As time passes and she becomes a young adult, she learns to write her own floral dictionary in which she re-evaluated the different flowers. She basically changed the destiny of the flowers by changing their meanings. But to get to that point, she had to first lash out and destroy, the only way she learnt how to cope with her world. A long road of redemption and forgiveness was her destiny. Victoria was not a likable young girl and she did unforgivable harm to people, which she also had to forgive herself for. The word 'hate' came easily to her, but it would take a wise woman to teach her that hate can be passionate, disengaged, dislike, but also fear. Elizabeth taught her that her behavior was a choice, not who she was. I was surprised by this book. It was so much different from what I expected and well worth the read. Of course I never believed in floriography since it resembled the human impulse to box everything up without consideration of the unfairness of the action. For instance, how cruel can it be to attribute 'Hate' to the cactus plant? Or 'Deceit' and 'Materialism' to the sunflower? I have been involved in botany throughout my adult life and revel in the beauty and magic of all plants. Floriography in all its splendor was never part of it and won't be in the future. I simply regard it as a waste of time. However, planning the story around this theme was an unusual and perhaps ambitious undertaking which informed and entertained. Victoria's struggle to make it through a hostile world was very realistic and captivating. The author managed to mix fantasy and reality in equal measures without losing the plot or the intent. The latter being to capture the life and soul of a little girl lost in in a grown-up world where everybody else decided her destiny until she could finally make that decision herself. She rooted and blossomed. She learnt the language of love in all its different manifestations. However, for her rebirth she had to go through the pain of being born again. RECOMMENDED! ...more I've always believed that giving flowers meant something . I knew that red roses meant love and somewhere along the line I learned that Baby's Breath , almost always in a bride's bouquet signified everlasting love . However, that was the extent of my knowledge of the meaning of flowers , originating in the Victorian era - until I read this book . Do flowers speak to us in this way ? I really don't know but it's nice to think so and the author has creatively wrapped this language around this stor I've always believed that giving flowers meant something . I knew that red roses meant love and somewhere along the line I learned that Baby's Breath , almost always in a bride's bouquet signified everlasting love . However, that was the extent of my knowledge of the meaning of flowers , originating in the Victorian era - until I read this book . Do flowers speak to us in this way ? I really don't know but it's nice to think so and the author has creatively wrapped this language around this story. Abandoned at birth Victoria is now 18 years old and \"emancipated\" from being a ward of the state . Her narrative alternates between her life at age ten, when she is taken in by Elizabeth and is finally looking at a chance to have a mother and present day, as she turns 18 and is being released from a group home. We learn of Victoria's \" gift \" for helping people convey their feelings , hopes and thoughts , through flowers and we learn what happened when she was ten. The book, though, is about more than what the flowers mean . It is about what it means to belong , to be loved , to be able to love. It's also about family and forgiveness . I grew to love Victoria and Elizabeth , in spite of their mistakes because I was moved by the sad events in their lives that may have promoted these mistakes. As for Grant , what can I say other than , I would give him a bouquet of Aster for his patience , Bluebell for his constancy , and cactus - yes cactus for his ardent love . 4 stars ...more This \"review\" forces me to think about the five star rating system. Since a number of stars reflects my own personal assessment then I need to be honest about how I feel about a book. Here is a chance to define my rating system: five stars means that the book is fascinating, readable, attention holding, has a plot, well defined characters and is well written, lyrical or poetic even. One star means I should not have read the book, why did I bother? But I did and it was good enough to finish(or sk This \"review\" forces me to think about the five star rating system. Since a number of stars reflects my own personal assessment then I need to be honest about how I feel about a book. Here is a chance to define my rating system: five stars means that the book is fascinating, readable, attention holding, has a plot, well defined characters and is well written, lyrical or poetic even. One star means I should not have read the book, why did I bother? But I did and it was good enough to finish(or skip to the end). Three stars means that not only did I read the book, I liked it, but something was missing in order to extol its virtues. In the case of The Language of Flowers, I loved the idea of the book, messages sent with flowers. The book is a romance and as such, the characters were all well defined but just a bit unbelievable. Why was such a horrid, aggressive, uncommunicative, misfit like the \"heroine\" tolerated, let alone loved by people who hardly knew her (about one year of acquaintance)? How could they be so devoted when the side they saw of her was mostly bad and her misdeeds were plentiful? The plot was cleverly done, weaving together the few skills the girl had and her destiny in flowers. But the plot felt contrived too what with the tolerant flower seller, the pregnancy and hiding out in the park then the ugly apartment. The heroines emergence as a potential butterfly after years of caterpillaring existence didn't ring true. Her inner growth and blooming needed more development in the story. Her lover man's devotion was really a puzzle - she was so awful to him. I wanted more about the flower language throughout the book; the author gave us a bit but I wanted lots more. Also the descriptions of places were were not evocative enough to give me a real sense of time and environment. This was partly because place references were overburdened with details about feelings and behavior - mostly of the \"heroine\". It was interesting that there wasnt very much about current events - this created a sense of timelessness, probably intended. The story revolves totally around just a few people. This is a fascinating and desperate tale of one orphan's struggle to survive adjust and blossom. Fine, and the story achieved that. I liked the book but I cannot recommend it to all wholeheartedly and cannot give it a five. Sorry Vanessa and Victoria (and why didnt you give her a flower name?) ...more Moss doesn't have any roots, but it grows anyway, without any roots. That's what this book is about the roots that we have in our lives, or don't have. Who was your mother, what were her traits, where do you fit in, where did you come from, who are you connected to, your roots. Victoria has spent her life in and out of foster care homes, abused, neglected, unwanted. The book flashes back to when she was in fosters homes, to when she went to live with Elizabeth at the age of 10, to her current da Moss doesn't have any roots, but it grows anyway, without any roots. That's what this book is about the roots that we have in our lives, or don't have. Who was your mother, what were her traits, where do you fit in, where did you come from, who are you connected to, your roots. Victoria has spent her life in and out of foster care homes, abused, neglected, unwanted. The book flashes back to when she was in fosters homes, to when she went to live with Elizabeth at the age of 10, to her current day. This book is beautifully written, some writers just have the ability to connect words in such a way that it almost feels like harmony, poetry. Prose! When Victoria goes to live with Elizabeth, Elizabeth teaches her all about the language of flowers, what each one means. Later Victoria becomes a florist but not just a florist, she doesn't just make pretty arrangements, she makes arrangements with purpose, with a meaning, and her customers love her. Her customers come to her to fix their marriages, to fall in love, to make sure their marriage is going to work, to get their children to speak to them again and to be happy. It is a beautiful story about how to connect to others, why it is important to have people in your life, to trust, to love. Read it! Just read it! ...more If you only enjoy books with likable protagonists & manly men give this one a pass. I expected some pleasant distraction about love & the Victorian language of flowers - didn\u2019t disappoint except in the light read department. Downright dark it borders on melodrama as it tells the story of an abandoned baby deprived of a mother\u2019s love & nurturing, illustrating the often irreparable damage done to that child\u2019s psyche. Victoria is caught up in a foster system that reinforces her feelings If you only enjoy books with likable protagonists & manly men give this one a pass. I expected some pleasant distraction about love & the Victorian language of flowers - didn\u2019t disappoint except in the light read department. Downright dark it borders on melodrama as it tells the story of an abandoned baby deprived of a mother\u2019s love & nurturing, illustrating the often irreparable damage done to that child\u2019s psyche. Victoria is caught up in a foster system that reinforces her feelings of disconnect by shuffling her through countless homes. At 18 she emerges totally broken, she can\u2019t even stand to be touched, a decidedly unlikeable woman with zero life skills. She makes a few cringe worthy life choices yet I never felt disgust, emotionally damaged people sometimes do terrible things. A nice touch the author\u2019s choice in having people just as damaged as Victoria rescue her from her personal demons by teaching her the power of self forgiveness. \"Do you really think you\u2019re the only human being alive who is unforgivably flawed?\" Meanderings: Analytically I already knew that critical life skills, in particular socializing, must be learned during infancy. Thanks to this author I think I now get it on an emotional level. ...more The Language of Flowers is a debut novel which sparked a major international bidding war. It sold at auction for over 1 million in the US (!) ~ and for a six-figure sum in the UK and Commonwealth. The blurb gives an awesome synopsis, but I will add a bit to it: The story itself alternates between the present and the past, a chapter at a time. In the present, Victoria is eighteen, jobless, homeless and sleeping in a park. She manages to get a job working for a florist (she knows flowers, in an obs The Language of Flowers is a debut novel which sparked a major international bidding war. It sold at auction for over 1 million in the US (!) ~ and for a six-figure sum in the UK and Commonwealth. The blurb gives an awesome synopsis, but I will add a bit to it: The story itself alternates between the present and the past, a chapter at a time. In the present, Victoria is eighteen, jobless, homeless and sleeping in a park. She manages to get a job working for a florist (she knows flowers, in an obsessed kind of way :) She is reserved, quietly spunky and rather unlike any protagonist I have read for a while. She is not bitter and hardened by the system, but she is ever-so-guarded. In the past, we see snatches of Victoria's childhood. In particular, her time spent as a ten year old with a carer, Elizabeth, who loved her. But something went horribly/catastrophically/spectacularly wrong (ie Victoria did something unforgivable... ). The secret and mysteries of the past unfold in layers, subtle yet compelling. In the present, there is also a guy ... ;) This guy, Grant, gets under Victoria's skin. And he is more than just a romantic interest. He is completely tied up in her past. Dun, dun, dun... As for how I enjoyed the book? It's gorgeously written. I love literary fiction, and Diffenbaugh knows how to turn a phrase and how to capture your senses and breathe life into her characters. It's a lovely combination of a slow-burning character arc kind of book, while at the same time building the plot in such a way that at the end of each chapter you want to keep following the story to see what happens next (there's a bundle of secrets, and some foreshadowing that lets you know all is not going to go well.) I am also a sucker for stories of redemption. They get me every time. Take a character who is broken, rejected, hurting and slowly, ever-so-gently offer them forgiveness and hope and a future and I always feel it on their behalf. Victoria's journey was at times painful to watch. She makes some bad decisions (O.o) and the present time spans around 18 months (and she goes through a lot. No spoilers but I loved the turn of events. Very addictive reading). However, this is ultimately a story of hope and love and it is never melodramatic (even in it's moments of drama) but rather feels triumphant and genuine. The thing, I guess, that sets this apart (to cause that insane bidding scene) ~ is the whole flower thing. I am not a flower type of person but reading this opened up a whole other world for me. Flowers play a huge, shining role in the story (there is even a Dictionary of Flowers in the back) and they are richly described (you can nearly smell them through the pages), and the history and meanings are completely fascinating. Such an awesome premise, hey. I really enjoyed reading this story, and had many moments of quiet awe. Recommended: For lovers of flowers (seriously, this is like, flower-heaven in a book), for fans of YA crossovers (Victoria is 18), for fans of literary contemporary fiction and ~ for your mum ;) I completely enjoyed the time I spent with 'The Language of Flowers' and I am am quietly excited to see how it fares once it it released. Is it worth the hype/buzz? I personally would not have paid that much (haha) and it didn't blow me away or become a favourite or anything, but i had a really good time reading it :) ...more Humans have assigned meaning to various plants for centuries. That idea was taken a step further during the Victorian era with \"floriography,\" a way of communicating messages using flowers. It was great for expressing emotion in a restrictive, ritual-driven culture. To send a message, a bouquet or boutonniere would be exchanged using blooms to convey not just love, but also friendship, a family connection, or complicated feelings. If a man and a woman had a disagreement, he might send her purple Humans have assigned meaning to various plants for centuries. That idea was taken a step further during the Victorian era with \"floriography,\" a way of communicating messages using flowers. It was great for expressing emotion in a restrictive, ritual-driven culture. To send a message, a bouquet or boutonniere would be exchanged using blooms to convey not just love, but also friendship, a family connection, or complicated feelings. If a man and a woman had a disagreement, he might send her purple hyacinths, which meant \u201cplease forgive me.\u201d If she were still upset, the next time she saw him she could be holding a small bouquet with a peony (anger) and a red carnation (my heart breaks). All of floriography features prominently in The Language of Flowers , a vaguely YA-ish first novel that\u2019s both engrossing and problematic. Victoria Jones is hard to like. She\u2019s bitter, selfish and gets angry at almost nothing, yet who can blame her? When the novel opens, Victoria is 18 and has lived her whole life in group homes and foster care with only one bright spot in a miserable existence. That happy time came when she was 9 and spent a year with Elizabeth, an eccentric vineyard owner who gave her a love of flowers and taught her their language. Told in alternating chapters between the present and Victoria\u2019s time with Elizabeth, the novel does a great job of giving and withholding information. We know something terrible happened, but it\u2019s tantalizingly mysterious until very late in the book. Other strengths are Diffengaugh\u2019s engaging writing and the descriptions of floriography itself, which is fascinating and beautifully depicted. Yet, ultimately I am not the reader for this book, although I respect its many good qualities. For starters, I\u2019m a stickler for believability, and I just didn\u2019t buy a character that can barely hold a conversation, and yet manages to start a highly successful, sales-oriented, flower business. Also, the people around her seem to have endless patience for Victoria\u2019s rudeness, inconsistency, and self-absorption when in reality anyone with a modicum of mental health would move on. Finally, much of the plot has a fairy-tale like quality, which is fine as long as it\u2019s controlled and consistent as in Like Water for Chocolate . But this novel doesn\u2019t have the gossamer beauty of magical realism. Instead, you're in a sad and gritty story, and then all of a sudden a dues ex machina comes along, usually in the form of a helpful minor character, and saves the day. This happens again and again. Another reason this book wasn\u2019t for me is its lack of meaty themes. For example, I think it\u2019s no accident that Diffengaugh named Victoria as she did. The character is sexually repressed and rigid, much like the era, but that\u2019s where the metaphor seems to end. The novel would have been stronger if the idea of a new Victorian had been explored more deeply perhaps looking at our culture through that lens. Another rich vein that was never mined is the question of why people even need flowers to express their thoughts. Are difficult sentiments easier to \u201chear\u201d when delivered by a flower? In a way floriography is like a crude American Sign Language in that it\u2019s a mode of communicating ideas using an entirely visual medium. The novel is Diffengaugh\u2019s vision, and it\u2019s not for me to rewrite it, but I do think she squandered a deeper, more ambitious work in favor of marketability. That said, The Language of Flowers is very well written, and addictively readable. ...more I'm a little conflicted about how to rate and review this one. I was really interested in the subject matter - the Victorian language of flowers. The young protagonist Victoria is a hurt and traumatized young woman after spending most of her life in foster care. After finally being released on her 18th birthday she begins a new life working with a florist and begins to bloom a little herself. The narration flips back and forth between her present life and various childhood episodes which I found I'm a little conflicted about how to rate and review this one. I was really interested in the subject matter - the Victorian language of flowers. The young protagonist Victoria is a hurt and traumatized young woman after spending most of her life in foster care. After finally being released on her 18th birthday she begins a new life working with a florist and begins to bloom a little herself. The narration flips back and forth between her present life and various childhood episodes which I found quite painful to read. I don't want to reveal too much about the plot but the closer I got to the end, the more uncomfortable I became with certain actions the character took. I think the author did a good job drawing me into the story and the characters were interesting but I'm not happy with the ending although I think I'm supposed to be. ...more I've come across a few articles/books as of late about the role reading can play in making a person more empathic. I had those studies in mind as I read Vanessa Diffenbaugh's \"The Language of Flowers.\" Chiefly because, without empathy, I would have failed to fully appreciate its narrator, Victoria Jones. A foster kid, Jones is a tough girl who blew her chance at being adopted and so, for 18 years, has bounced from group home to group home with the worst of attitudes. The book follows her life upo I've come across a few articles/books as of late about the role reading can play in making a person more empathic. I had those studies in mind as I read Vanessa Diffenbaugh's \"The Language of Flowers.\" Chiefly because, without empathy, I would have failed to fully appreciate its narrator, Victoria Jones. A foster kid, Jones is a tough girl who blew her chance at being adopted and so, for 18 years, has bounced from group home to group home with the worst of attitudes. The book follows her life upon being emancipated (all the while weaving in her back story and her days living with Elizabeth, the closest foster parent she's ever had to a real mother). She finds a job with a local florist and, soon enough, her gift of deciphering the Victorian message of flowers becomes her ticket to a new life. \"Language\" was a novel that captivated me for a couple reasons. I'd never heard about the Victorian language of flowers (that, for instance, asters mean patience and yellow roses infidelity) and so, as a plot construct, this alone kept me reading. But what also grabbed me was how personal this novel was to its author. Diffenbaugh herself is a foster mother. She is passionate about the importance of foster children landing on their feet upon gaining their independence. (So much so she's created a non-profit, the Camellia Network (camellia meaning \"my destiny is in your hands\"), to raise money for its cause.) What was most difficult about Diffenbaugh's book was exercising that empathy muscle while reading it. Victoria makes so many decisions\u2014many of them so rash and so hurtful\u2014that those of us who have grown up sheltered and loved could never understand her reasoning behind them. And so it takes the reminder of \"You don't know what it's like to be in her shoes\" to forgive her those actions (and the hurt she inflicts) over the course of \"Language\"'s 300-plus pages. Overall, an engrossing read (especially for a debut novel); likely to remain one of my favorites of the year. Knowing Hollywood (reportedly) has come calling for this film, I couldn't help envisioning a cast I'd love to see take this one on: Victoria: Evan Rachel Wood (the actress has to be younger and have that ability to play tough and vulnerable at the same time--I think she'd nail it) Elizabeth: Naomi Watts and Catherine: Anne Heche (I kept picturing these sisters as blonde--I think both these actresses would be amazing in either of these roles) Grant: Andrew Garfield (because I'd LOVE to see what he'd do with the subtleties of the character...plus, I just love him as an actor and want to see him in everything-haha) And finally, a passage I loved--so much so I stopped to read it twice (pg. 279): \"When you work with flowers, everything about you changes. The set of your jaw loosens. Your eyes glaze with focus. Your fingers manipulate the flowers with a gentle respect that makes it impossible to believe you are capable of violence....\" I knew the girl of whom she was speaking. It was the same one I'd glimpsed in the dressing room mirror with Elizabeth, after nearly a year in her home. Perhaps that girl had survived somewhere within me after all, preserved like a dried flower, fragile and sweet. ...more This child, this self-admitted odd-bod, Victoria has been in the foster system since birth. Ask her who her parents are and she will say the Foster System. At age ten, she has been in thirty-nine different foster homes. She is used to, at a moment's notice, being removed or rejected by her foster parents. She travels light, everything she owns is in a small canvas bag which includes her Dictionary of Flowers. The story is told in two sequences of time; when she is ten, going to a new foster home This child, this self-admitted odd-bod, Victoria has been in the foster system since birth. Ask her who her parents are and she will say the Foster System. At age ten, she has been in thirty-nine different foster homes. She is used to, at a moment's notice, being removed or rejected by her foster parents. She travels light, everything she owns is in a small canvas bag which includes her Dictionary of Flowers. The story is told in two sequences of time; when she is ten, going to a new foster home, and when she is eighteen, upon her emancipation from the state foster system. She uses meaning of flowers to convey what she thinks and feels. Over the course of the novel, Victoria creates her own dictionary of flowers using paste cards, definitions, dried flowers and illustrations. My abridged version of Victoria's dictionary as follows: Almond Blossom - Indiscretion, Azalea/Rhododenron - Fragile and ephemeral passion, Baby\u2019s Breath - Everlasting love, Bougainvillea - Passion Camellia - My destiny is in your hands, Carnation, Pink - I will never forget you Chrysanthemum - Truth Daffodil -New beginnings Fuchsia - Humble love Gladioli - You pierce my heart Hibiscus - Delicate beauty Hyacinth, Purple - Please forgive me Iris - Message Jonquil - Desire Lavender - Mistrust Magnolia - Dignity Marigold - Grief Petunia - Your presence soothes me Rose, Yellow - Infidelity Snowdrop - Consolation and hope Wisteria - Welcome The author includes many common and uncommon flowers in the story of Victoria's life and the people she meets. That in itself would probably make the story well worth reading. For me, I would have liked more description of the flowers but that is just my own personal feeling. A lovely inclusion at story's end is Victoria's Dictionary of Flowers. Quite a good effort as a debut novel; an author to watch. 3\u2605 ...more THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS DUE OUT 19TH OF AUGUST 2011 The Language of Flowers is gritty and meaningful; it will take you deep and bring you into dark places. This debut novel by Vanessa Diffenbaugh is going to be top of the charts within a week. Her writing is both risky and extremely exciting; she is the type of writer you watch out for. If I could scream from the rooftops about this book I would. Sometimes when you read a book you just know this is it, this is the book that will touch your heart THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS DUE OUT 19TH OF AUGUST 2011 The Language of Flowers is gritty and meaningful; it will take you deep and bring you into dark places. This debut novel by Vanessa Diffenbaugh is going to be top of the charts within a week. Her writing is both risky and extremely exciting; she is the type of writer you watch out for. If I could scream from the rooftops about this book I would. Sometimes when you read a book you just know this is it, this is the book that will touch your heart in an extraordinary way. Being compared to Chocolat to me is an insult to this book as it carries far more weight, the story holds so much reality and it is in no way fantastical. Chocolat is one of my favourite books and movies and will always carry a special place in my heart, but the only comparison is the way in which the flowers express what Victoria (the main character in the book) can\u2019t herself express, just like Vianne uses chocolates to express herself. The Language of Flowers tells the story of Victoria, a girl who has never known the security of a real family or home. Switching between Victoria as a child and as an adult we are told the story of her haunted past and how she came to love and know flowers, while also learning of how she has grown as an adult and what her future holds. Up until the age of 9 this little girl was passed around from foster parents to group homes never quite being enough for any of them to want to hold on to. This is of course until she is brought to Elizabeth, a single woman who lives on a flower farm and wants nothing more than a daughter of her own. Victoria of course pushes the limits every chance she gets expecting Meredith her social worker to be called to take her away. But in time she learns to trust Elizabeth, and with that begins to share her passion for flowers. Victoria spends hours in the fields with Elizabeth learning about the different types of flowers and the meaning of each. But now Victoria is 18 sleeping in a park alone where she has created her own garden hidden behind the trees. Elizabeth is nowhere to be found. Homeless and afraid she manages to get a job with Renata a flower shop owner who quickly learns Victoria understands flowers better than she does herself. Renata never pushes her or asks questions, she only helps without intrusion. She somehow understands this closed off hard girl just needs someone to be there, to be silent. But just as Victoria starts to get her life together someone from her past comes back and she finds herself imprisoned by the lies that were told back then. Vanessa Diffenbaugh should be congratulated for telling such a wonderful heartbreaking story. I know that when this book comes out that the words will speak for themselves and she will get the recognition she deserves. It is incredibly well written, nothing has been compromised and so much has been put into this novel. In addition to the story she also leaves us with something very special at the end. I urge you not to look until you have read the whole story as it only adds to how you will feel about this book. Vanessa Diffenbaugh ...more I had difficulty with \"the willing suspension of disbelief\" required by this novel. I was able to accept Victoria's behavior only because I felt she was in need of serious psychiatric counseling. However, the behavior of everyone else was completely unbelievable (possible exception was the social worker). Why would Elizabeth, the foster mom who loves Victoria so much, risk losing her completely simply because, decades of estrangement from her sister, she decides she can't adopt Victoria without I had difficulty with \"the willing suspension of disbelief\" required by this novel. I was able to accept Victoria's behavior only because I felt she was in need of serious psychiatric counseling. However, the behavior of everyone else was completely unbelievable (possible exception was the social worker). Why would Elizabeth, the foster mom who loves Victoria so much, risk losing her completely simply because, decades of estrangement from her sister, she decides she can't adopt Victoria without her sister's agreement? How could Grant fall in love with Victoria immediately after seeing her for the first time since she was 10 years old? How could Renata tell that Victoria would be a wonderful assistant after meeting this homeless looking creature just once. And how did Victoria learn to make such beautiful floral arrangements? There was no mention of this activity when she lived with Elizabeth. They just worked on the meanings. I don't think they even grew many flowers. The floral nursery and gardens belonged to Grant and his mother. How could Victoria get enough money to start her own business? And wasn't it a betrayal of Renata to go into competition with her? Furthermore, wasn't it too contrived that Victoria found the perfect assistance in her former group home? Plus, wasn't it too much of a coincidence that Renata's mother was a midwife? And what about the coincidence that Renata had a sister with a space to rent cheaply? I won't even mention the illogical things that Victoria did because, as I said before, she truly was psychologically disabled. And the happy ending was so sappy. I didn't care to read over and over again the meaning of various flowers. Besides, I do not believe the choices she made for clients really caused all the good results. Actually, I did not believe that a florist could get so much business, so quickly, just by word of mouth. Think I'll stop here. I can't think of anything I liked. Kept reading because it was a choice of my book group and it actually did not take too much time - considering I'd frequently skim mention of specific flowers. ...more 4  stars I vacillated between 4 and 5 stars for this book, but despite not being happy with everything about it, I think the story and its memorable characters are so well crafted, and it touched me so deeply and affected me so strongly, that I have to round it up and give it 5 stars. That said, I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s the most ideal book for my next book club discussion. I am glad I pushed for us to read it though, for selfish reasons, because I\u2019ve wanted to read this book since it first came out and 4 \u00bd stars I vacillated between 4 and 5 stars for this book, but despite not being happy with everything about it, I think the story and its memorable characters are so well crafted, and it touched me so deeply and affected me so strongly, that I have to round it up and give it 5 stars. That said, I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s the most ideal book for my next book club discussion. I am glad I pushed for us to read it though, for selfish reasons, because I\u2019ve wanted to read this book since it first came out and I\u2019m grateful that I finally got to it. I loved the dictionary of flowers at the end of the book. I didn\u2019t know about the language of flowers and now I\u2019m fascinated. I referred to the dictionary throughout the book, even though the author usually wrote in the meanings of the flowers as they were mentioned. Then, I reread the whole dictionary after I finished the book. I\u2019m disheartened to see that Kate Greenaway 's book Language of Flowers is available only for library use only at my library. I\u2019d love to borrow it and peruse it at home. So regarding this book: I really enjoyed the San Francisco setting. There were one or two things that weren\u2019t gotten quite right, including our September weather, but most locales and directions were spot on, and I really love books set in San Francisco and the San Francisco Bay Area. The fact that the book\u2019s events take place in San Francisco and surrounding areas is one of the reasons I was eager to get to it. And, of course, I\u2019m always delighted to read books that belong on my orphaned-and-quasi-oprhaned-kids shelf. This one fits perfectly. While I\u2019m not typically interested in botany, even though I\u2019ve always wanted a vegetable and herb garden and I do enjoy being out in nature, I loved the flowers and the vineyard and what I learned about them. I found it fascinating to learn some of the flowers\u2019 meanings and also some of what it takes to be a successful florist. If I ever have cause to use or give flowers in the future, I\u2019ll keep their meanings in mind. Until I read this book I was only dimly aware they had the meanings they do and did. I\u2019m glad Victoria\u2019s dictionary was somewhat updated from Victorian times to our modern time. This book reads as a sort of mystery, as chapter by chapter the reader is taken from the present to the past, back and forth. I was very eager to see what would happen and what had happened. There was quite a bit of suspense. I was grateful that one major mystery was solved well before the end of the book, but the suspense continued until the very end of the story. The book was a really quick read. There are many short chapters so it was easy for me to pick up the book and read just a little and then just a bit more. Almost all the characters are unforgettable. They\u2019re so well drawn. I felt as though I knew and understood them, and almost everything about them and their relationships rang true to me. One of the author\u2019s children is a former foster child and I felt she understood foster kids. I admire her for doing something with that knowledge. She\u2019s co-founded a very worthwhile nationwide group called The Camilla Network (camellia means \u201cmy destiny is in your hands\u201d) to support foster children aging out of the system: https://camellianetwork.org/ . I\u2019m going to check it out. We treat our foster children appallingly bad when they turn 18. There are few programs and they\u2019re not adequate. I\u2019m so glad when I find resources for them. The rest of my review will be in spoiler tags and there are major spoilers. What I say is best read by those who\u2019ve already read the book or are sure they have no interest in reading the book: (view spoiler) [ Just once I\u2019d love to read a book about a main character in distress who does not undergo major positive transformation. I realize why the author had Victoria finally fare as well as she did. This is a hopeful book and might be wonderful for kids who are foster teens or young adults, kids who have reactive attachment disorder, anyone who\u2019s had less than adequate parenting, and who needs some hope for themselves. What happened did seem authentic and did end up working, but Victoria was incredibly lucky that it did. I think it helped that when she was ten, and again a decade later, she had someone who wanted to mother her. It helped that she took the language of flowers with her and had a knack and a talent for being a florist, and that she had a caring mentor. It helped that she found a young man who truly understood her and loved her. It helped that Hazel gave her a reason to think beyond herself. It helped that while angry she didn\u2019t seem at all prone to anxiety or depression. I think the story was overly optimistic, but all that happens does seem possible. I do love how Victoria helped first one then three other young women who live in the group home she stayed in when first out of the foster care system. I suppose between Victoria, Grant, and Elizabeth, Hazel will have what she will need to thrive. But while it all works, I wasn\u2019t thrilled with the end. She is a very strong person. I haven\u2019t met many like her, but I\u2019ve read of real people that remind me of her, such as Liz Murray and her book Breaking Night: A Memoir of Forgiveness, Survival, and My Journey from Homeless to Harvard , and I\u2019ve worked with a few, though they\u2019re a small percentage of the kids who find themselves situations with a similar lack of nurturing. I know I would not have made it the way Victoria did and I\u2019ve seen what happens to most foster kids who age out of the system, usually with much less support and inner strength than Victoria has. I continued to feel depressed and worried at the end, even though I know it\u2019s meant to be a happy ending. Can Hazel even get a birth certificate? At least Victoria knows Hazel\u2019s birthday, even though she doesn\u2019t know her own actual birthday. Anyway, I felt depressed and sad and anxious and unsettled as I read the book, and those feelings didn\u2019t dissipate despite the happy ending. End of rant for now. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I didn't know flowers had so much to say. Certainly, \"I love You\" but other emotions like jealousy, hate, sorrow, passion, mistrust, never entered my mind. I heard author, Vanessa Dissenbauch, talking about her debut novel The Language of Flowers on the August 27th NPR Weekend Edition. Her decision to use flowers to tell us the story of Victoria, an abandoned child, caught up in a foster care system, shuffled from family to family, but deemed not adoptable, seemed unique. I was lucky to be the f I didn't know flowers had so much to say. Certainly, \"I love You\" but other emotions like jealousy, hate, sorrow, passion, mistrust, never entered my mind. I heard author, Vanessa Dissenbauch, talking about her debut novel The Language of Flowers on the August 27th NPR Weekend Edition. Her decision to use flowers to tell us the story of Victoria, an abandoned child, caught up in a foster care system, shuffled from family to family, but deemed not adoptable, seemed unique. I was lucky to be the first to grab this book when it hit our shelves. As the story opens, Victoria is finally graduating out of the state care system but into what. Here's an eighteen year old so profoundly wounded by years of feelings of unworthiness, that it seems doubtful she can succeed. She takes up residence in a half way house and is told to get a job. Get a job? With what skills. In alternate chapters, Victoria reveals bits and pieces of the one year she lived with Elisabeth, the only person who had ever shown her any real love. Living with Elisabeth on her vineyard in the wine country of San Francisco, Victoria learns the meanings of flowers and for the first time feels hope. That is until the day Elisabeth is to adopt Victoria. Something goes horribly wrong and Victoria finds herself alone once again. In the present Victoria builds on the language Elisabeth has taught her, that of flowers, and takes a job with a florist. At one point the author needed to get Victoria from point A to B and I did not like the choices either made. Did this spoil the whole for me? Not really. It will give me something to debate with friends who choose to read the book. I have to remind myself that it is not my book and the author can do what she sees fit to tell the tale. It's evident that Diffenbaugh is passionate about her subjects, both flowers and the foster care system. I loved how Diffenbaugh weaved the meaning of flowers throughout. I found it very sensual, like the pleasure I got from reading Chocolat (Harris) or Like Water for Chocolate (Esquivel) with its use of cacao as a means to stimulate the senses. I do not have a floral garden but do appreciate the beauty of those created by others. I can appreciate the skills of a florist to create a bridal bouquet or floral arrangement. This story will bring new appreciation to my perception of the flowers that surround me. Victoria's Dictionary of flowers in included at the end of the book. This in itself is interesting, In an author note Diffenbaugh states that she owned only one flower dictionary, The Floral Offering: A Token of Affection and Esteem; Comprising Language and Poetry of Flowers, written in 1851 by Henrietta Dumont. I'd love to get my hands on this. I never knew such a thing existed. Vanessa Diffenbaugh is launching the Camellia (meaning my destiny ) Network in support of youth making transitions from foster care to independence. www.camellianetwork.org ...more I want to write this review while the tears are still streaming down my face. I was drawn to this book because it was written by a foster mom, and I have often thought of becoming one, or at least mentoring abused and/or foster children. The other big draw for me is that I love flowers. For years on Goodreads, my avatar was a flower, and it would change along with the seasons and my moods. I really enjoy sending flowers to people when they least expect it. It's such a wonderful way to send happi I want to write this review while the tears are still streaming down my face. I was drawn to this book because it was written by a foster mom, and I have often thought of becoming one, or at least mentoring abused and/or foster children. The other big draw for me is that I love flowers. For years on Goodreads, my avatar was a flower, and it would change along with the seasons and my moods. I really enjoy sending flowers to people when they least expect it. It's such a wonderful way to send happiness anywhere. I never knew there was a language of flowers, and I am fascinated by that concept. I'll definitely be taking it into account in the future when sending arrangements. What a nice language to be able to fluently speak! Now, to the book. I loved it. It has flaws, but I really think it fulfilled its purpose. A book like this needed to be written, and if the only thing it accomplished is to raise awareness that there are lots of little kids out there in our foster system who need and deserve a loving home, then in my opinion, it's a smashing success. I also want to thank Lisa for giving me the benefit of her perspective, and for the statement that a five-star book doesn't have to be perfect. You're so right, Lisa. It doesn't. And we don't have to be perfect either. That is something that this book taught me. We don't have to be perfect mothers or perfect daughters. We don't have to be perfect mates or caregivers. We just have to open our hearts and do our best. No one can expect more from us than that. I really want to thank Vanessa Diffenbaugh for bringing that realization home to me, because at this juncture, I really do need to know and understand that, and this book delivered that concept to me in a way that felt satisfying, and complete. Furthermore, it gave me something to look forward to at the end of a long day - a fast read to really get lost in that absorbed all of my attention. If you have an interest in helping kids like Victoria, the main character in this book, I encourage you to check out this website: https://camellianetwork.org/ This organization was established by the author to help kids transitioning from the foster care system to independence. ...more What a beautifully written novel. The Language of Flowers by Vanessa Diffenbaugh is definitely a keeper. Victoria Jones has spent her life in the foster care system. Now that she has turned eighteen it's time to be on her own. The novel rotates between past and present where we learn of Victoria's triumphs and hardships. For most of Victoria's young adult life, she spent it with Elizabeth who teaches her about the language of flowers and that each flower has a distinct meaning. She carries this What a beautifully written novel. The Language of Flowers by Vanessa Diffenbaugh is definitely a keeper. Victoria Jones has spent her life in the foster care system. Now that she has turned eighteen it's time to be on her own. The novel rotates between past and present where we learn of Victoria's triumphs and hardships. For most of Victoria's young adult life, she spent it with Elizabeth who teaches her about the language of flowers and that each flower has a distinct meaning. She carries this knowledge to present day where she gets a job at a florist. Customers continue to come to her with specific requests for flowers to heal and/or help them in someway. During the time working at the florist, she meets Grant who happens to be Elizabeth's nephew. He shares her love of flowers which blooms to actual love. Some parts in this novel were very sad seeing what kids in the foster care system have to go through and how it effects their future. In the end, Victoria makes peace with her life and starts a new beginning. Loved the dictionary in the back with all of the flower meanings.Very enjoyable book to read. ...more This is one of the best books, maybe the best, I've read this year. This is a story of loss, redemption, coming of age, and the power of love. A young girl coming up through the foster care system struggles without love for so long, that she can't recognize it when it comes. Her journey through the system, towards adulthood is facilitated through her knowledge of the secret language of flowers. Anyone who has worked in the floral industry will love it, those who work with children in difficult c This is one of the best books, maybe the best, I've read this year. This is a story of loss, redemption, coming of age, and the power of love. A young girl coming up through the foster care system struggles without love for so long, that she can't recognize it when it comes. Her journey through the system, towards adulthood is facilitated through her knowledge of the secret language of flowers. Anyone who has worked in the floral industry will love it, those who work with children in difficult circumstances will love it, those who love good writing will love it, and those who love San Francisco will love it. I think I've covered everyone, but if not, you will enjoy all the meanings of flowers from the Victorian Age. A bouquet of purple roses awaits those who read this. ...more Victoria starts her adult life an 18-year-old girl emancipate from the San Francisco foster care system. After a childhood of neglect, she miraculously blossoms into a businesswoman and mother, redeemed by an adoptive parent who teaches her to connect using the Victorian language of flowers. The author has woven a cause for social justice into a work of compelling fiction, and uses this tightly-crafted novel to inspire people to act with foster kids in mind. In this country there are nearly 20,0 Victoria starts her adult life an 18-year-old girl emancipate from the San Francisco foster care system. After a childhood of neglect, she miraculously blossoms into a businesswoman and mother, redeemed by an adoptive parent who teaches her to connect using the Victorian language of flowers. The author has woven a cause for social justice into a work of compelling fiction, and uses this tightly-crafted novel to inspire people to act with foster kids in mind. In this country there are nearly 20,000 young people emancipate each year from the foster care system, many of them with no skills and no means of support. In response to this state of affairs, Diffenbaugh, a foster parent herself, founded the Camellia Network for supporting youth who are making the transition from foster care. Any flaw in this story is its fairytale-esque reversal of fortune. Are we really hooked by the Cinderella story? It's too easy to forget that if the feral fire starter Victoria Jones was a true flesh-and-blood girl, her considerable wounds would take longer to heal than this book concedes. Nonetheless, The Language of Flowers offers a singular vision, particularly its fascinating purview of a lost art. Scan \"Victoria's Dictionary of Flowers\" in the back pages. I never would have guessed that Black Eyed Susans symbolize Justice , Dahlias Dignity , Thistle Misanthropy ; Least of all, the meaning of Camellia: My Destiny is in Your Hands . I just picked up two bunches of Cosmos ( Joy in Love and Life ), and think of this story each time I pass them. ...more<---C>Vanessa Diffenbaugh</---C>", "Title": "The Language of Flowers"},
