{"Comments": "The movie adaptation of this book was on TV recently which reminded me that I had read this book quite some time ago. <+++>Little Children</+++> focuses on couples in their thirties living in a quiet Boston suburb where nothing really happens. One summer all of that changes when a convicted pedophile moves into the neighborhood. Sarah and <---C>Richard</---C>: Sarah was once a radical feminist. She never thought she would be where she is or who she is today - a common housewife. Her husband, Richard secludes himself in h The movie adaptation of this book was on TV recently which reminded me that I had read this book quite some time ago. <+++>Little Children</+++> focuses on couples in their thirties living in a quiet Boston suburb where nothing really happens. One summer all of that changes when a convicted pedophile moves into the neighborhood. Sarah and Richard: Sarah was once a radical feminist. She never thought she would be where she is or who she is today - a common housewife. Her husband, Richard secludes himself in his study ignoring his wife and child as he becomes more and more involved with internet porn. Kathy and Todd: Kathy is a successful documentary filmmaker. Her husband Todd stays at home taking care of their toddler son. Kathy feels like she is missing out and is envious of the connection Todd has with their son. She continuously pressures Todd to take the bar exam (he doesn't tell her he doesn't want to be a lawyer). He tells his wife he is out studying for the exam but instead tries to relive his youth watching a bunch of kids skateboarding. Mary Ann and Louis: Mary Ann thinks the key to life is to have everything scheduled down to the minute. This includes scheduling sex with her husband, Louis every Tuesday evening at nine p.m. When Ronald McGorvey, convicted sex offender moves into the neighborhood the residents are angry.<---F> Especially retired cop Larry</---F>. Three years ago something happened while on duty that ended up forcing him into early retirement. His wife and kids have left him. He decides to take it upon himself to rid the neighborhood of Ronald or \"Ronnie\". To get out of the house Sarah starts hanging around the playground with her daughter, Lucy. Todd has also been bringing his son to the same playground. All of the other mothers think Todd is gorgeous and refer to him as \"Prom King.\" One day the mothers dare Sarah to walk up to Todd and ask for his phone number. Things go even farther and soon the two of them are scheduling play dates for both their children and themselves. I read this book over ten years ago. I clearly remember reading the synopsis of the book and laughing because there were a few similarities to my life. At the time I was still married and both my husband and I were in our thirties. My husband's name was also Todd, and he was staying at home to take care of our daughter. I wasn't a famous filmmaker but I was working full time and I remember feeling like I was missing out on raising my child. And bizarrely sometimes when I picked up my daughter from school,<---M> some women would ask where my husband</---M>, \"Hot Toddy\" was. Anyhow back to the book. I really enjoyed seeing how the lives of the characters intertwined throughout the novel. I thought they were quite well-developed. Some of the characters were just perfect in their unlike-ability. The bitchy playground mothers were so well-written as were many of the other characters. The writer shows how flawed any of us can be. How we can all make a bad choice, or give into temptation. We don't all behave perfectly all the time. I'm not saying that everyone is going to give into their temptation but we'd be surprised probably to find out what really happens in some of our neighbors lives. A lot of references to Madame Bovary in the book. At the beginning the women are reading it for their book-club. Mary Ann: Oh that's nice. So now cheating on your husband makes you a feminist? Sarah Pierce: No, no, no. It's not the cheating. It's the hunger - the hunger for an alternative and the refusal to accept a life of unhappiness. I really enjoyed the dark humor and thought it was a good, quick and interesting read. Lots of food for thought with this one. Perfect for book clubs. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ In case you haven\u2019t seen me brag about it before are unaware, I work a couple of blocks away from this beauty . . . . (^^^^That\u2019s just the parking garage.) So I can go check out books conveniently during my lunch hour. (There\u2019s also the porny library up in the \u2018burbs that gives me the hookup on all of my . . . . scientific research projects .) Since Fall has finally fallen and the temps are no longer in the bazillions I\u2019ve taken it upon Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ In case you haven\u2019t seen me brag about it before are unaware, I work a couple of blocks away from this beauty . . . . (^^^^That\u2019s just the parking garage.) So I can go check out books conveniently during my lunch hour. (There\u2019s also the porny library up in the \u2018burbs that gives me the hookup on all of my . . . . scientific research projects .) Since Fall has finally fallen and the temps are no longer in the bazillions I\u2019ve taken it upon myself to walk down to the ol\u2019 bibliotech a time or two \u2013 and since I\u2019m a farking crack addict I now have FIFTEEN physical books checked out in addition to a bunch of e-copies and eleventy thousand galleys. Added bonus, since I suck at reviewing I have actually read a few of these already but keep getting distracted by squirrels the convenience of Kindle notes rather than the inconvenience of post-it notes so now I\u2019m all like . . . . Basically what all that amounts to is you should expect an even shittier review than I generally puke out. Okay, so do you ever have a lifetime phase where you are kind of like this . . . . And then you take a new job in your company and for the first time in 10 years you are supposed to interact with others and it is extremely people-y and you just want to scream . . . . But you\u2019re trying to pretend you\u2019re almost normal and that would totally blow your cover and so you bottle up all of your annoyance until you get home and then you flip out on your husband about shit like . . . . And then you finally come to the conclusion that you need to give yourself a time out. If the above has ever happened to you I highly suggest reading a book that confirms . . . . In order to feel better about yourself. Little Children seriously delivered. We\u2019re talking affairs and secret internet fetishes and a real over-achieving PITA supermom you want to punch in the throat and a child molester. It probably goes without saying these were all Mitchell\u2019s type of people. A solid 4 Stars that worked so well it took me almost a whole month to get back to my typical approach to life . . . . Even my friend Deanna liked this one and she is pretty much the nicest person ever so now you know you don\u2019t have to be a total psychopath like me in order to enjoy it : ) ...more <---A>Tom Perrotta</---A> is usually very fun to read. I'm pretty sure I've read all his books, and I typically polish them off (meaning I read them, not eat them; you should not eat books) within the day, which for me is impressive. A dinette set could finish a marathon with time to spare well before I complete a book, but Perrotta's voice is easygoing and funny, and a master at pacing if you ask me, so I happily breeze right through. But \"Little Children\", for which he has arguably received the most attent Tom Perrotta is usually very fun to read. I'm pretty sure I've read all his books, and I typically polish them off (meaning I read them, not eat them; you should not eat books) within the day, which for me is impressive. A dinette set could finish a marathon with time to spare well before I complete a book, but Perrotta's voice is easygoing and funny, and a master at pacing if you ask me, so I happily breeze right through. But \"Little Children\", for which he has arguably received the most attention, is in no way his best book. Now I still finished it in a day or two, so at least it's not boring. I got the impression that Perrotta felt like he was making this ostensibly mind-blowing point about the parent-child relationship, wanting us to sit down with our head in our hands and murmur \"My God, my child is not the child, but I, the parent, am really the child, although my child is the child as well, but only because nature has forced him to be a child, whereas I, the parent, a supposed adult, have no such excuse for my childish behavior, and yet I remain a child, a child who has a child. I'm calling DHS on myself. Thank you, Tom Perrotta\". I hate to think of him snapping his fingers and declaring \"Aha! I will name my book 'Little Children'! That's perfect! Because it involves little children, like real actual children, but really it's about the little children in all of us! Because that's all we are! Everyone! Honey! Honey? Where are you? Honey, are you in the bathroom? Where are you?! Honey?! Jesus, there you are! How can you stand the TV that loud? I just figured it out! Guess what I'm calling the book? 'Little Children'! It means two things!\" I guess if you had never read any of his stuff in the past, this book might seem pretty good, and where it was the first novel of his to really spend much time on the charts, it seems likely to me that better-than-usual marketing (coupled with the fact that, on the whole, young parents seem to like to read books) is the most viable explanation for the novel's comparatively runaway success. Worst of all is the ending, which is just really, really stupid. Didn't like the movie much, either. ...more Tom Perrotta appeared in my library's Who Writes Like file when I entered Richard Russo 's name. Personally, I don't see the resemblance; Perrotta has none of Russo's wonderfully wry wit nevertheless Little Children was a worthwhile albiet quick read. Yes, this is a satire but not a laugh out loud one for me. Infidelity, a knicker-sniffing husband, a convicted child molester, an unfulfilled housewife, a retired cop with a penchant for violence but not too much actually about the 'little children' Tom Perrotta appeared in my library's Who Writes Like file when I entered Richard Russo 's name. Personally, I don't see the resemblance; Perrotta has none of Russo's wonderfully wry wit nevertheless Little Children was a worthwhile albiet quick read. Yes, this is a satire but not a laugh out loud one for me. Infidelity, a knicker-sniffing husband, a convicted child molester, an unfulfilled housewife, a retired cop with a penchant for violence but not too much actually about the 'little children'; it's an interesting mix. As I've discovered in his other novels, Perrotta likes to talk about moral dilemmas and he put this reader in the moral dilemma of actually pitying a child molester and that did shake me up a little. Perrotta writes with a sharp intuition into the human condition; this is an interesting, sometimes compelling novel. 3.5\u2605 ...more This has got to be the first time in my entire life that I thought the movie version of something was better than the book. Yes, I saw the movie first, and perhaps that influenced me. But, man, Tom Perrotta is a crappy writer. I felt like he was just punching a clock here--so much of the writing was dull, cliched, and lifeless. Not only that, the movie managed to create complexity in the characters where the book did not. For instance, the movie actually managed to make me feel sorry for a child This has got to be the first time in my entire life that I thought the movie version of something was better than the book. Yes, I saw the movie first, and perhaps that influenced me. But, man, Tom Perrotta is a crappy writer. I felt like he was just punching a clock here--so much of the writing was dull, cliched, and lifeless. Not only that, the movie managed to create complexity in the characters where the book did not. For instance, the movie actually managed to make me feel sorry for a child molester. Not the book. I also felt like the book completely failed to create a believable bond between the parents and children in the story. I'm a stay-at-home mom, and I completely get that staying home can be tough--some days, it's brutal, in fact. I have no problem seeing that portrayed in fiction; it can be done well. But the book does nothing to convince us that the main characters give even the slightest damn about their children. It's a first for me, for sure, but this is one case where the screenplay writer was a better artist than the novelist. ...more A character study of regretful adults. All reverting back to childhood with their desires and deeds. What do you do when you are unhappy with the choices you have made up to this point in your life? You seek an escape. That is what this novel is about. One of my recurring complaints about books in general is product placement. Ignoring my anti-consumerist attitude this was a good read. The ending was perfect. Perrotta has written a caustically funny satire of thirty-something suburban American life that we laugh aloud even as we see ourselves and our faults unerringly displayed. Even with his opening salvo--descriptions of the mothers at the playground discussing their children, other mothers\u2019 children, their husbands, their sexual habits (or not)--one cannot help but think this is one author who listens and can make a joke of even the most painful circumstance. No matter how bad or boring things get Perrotta has written a caustically funny satire of thirty-something suburban American life that we laugh aloud even as we see ourselves and our faults unerringly displayed. Even with his opening salvo--descriptions of the mothers at the playground discussing their children, other mothers\u2019 children, their husbands, their sexual habits (or not)--one cannot help but think this is one author who listens and can make a joke of even the most painful circumstance. No matter how bad or boring things get, he\u2019ll be able to see what is funny in it. Perrotta takes a stab at the politically correct: skewering the liberal left (for believing the child molester was probably innocent because he wasn\u2019t convicted of murder), and the righteous right (for believing the child molester was guilty before he was convicted of murder). The problems and insecurities and small-mindedness and flat-out lying that all the characters exhibit tell us so much more about what we think we can get away with and never can\u2026but such outrageous and egregious faults! Perrotta must have sat around thinking of what would be the worst of all the faults one could encounter in a spouse: faithlessness, online porn and used-panty fantasist, child molester, alcoholic, serial failure\u2026when the child molester wishes he were an alcoholic instead, one just knows there is no way to escape unscathed. But we have seen these characters, or parts of them, in the people around us. They are familiar, but not as funny as in this book. Here people are so flagrant and so flawed and so \u201cother\u201d that we can laugh and claim they are not us. But when our handsome no-pads neighborhood football QB and unfaithful spouse, Todd, says to his working wife, \u201cSarah? Sarah who?\u201d we cringe for him, for his wife, for the children, for ourselves because he/we are fooling ourselves that we can get away with something when the game is already up. Someone has caught us out, seen us for who and what we are. But somehow, Perrotta still allows us to laugh, despite the sordid tragedy of it all. ...more (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) For better or for worse, there are a small collection of writers out there who can be called \"movie authors,\" for lack of a better term; those who have had multiple novels adapted into films now, because of writing screenplay-friendly books or having an amazing agent or whatever the reason. And as far as the traditional literary world, these writers can be found scattered all the way through the foo (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) For better or for worse, there are a small collection of writers out there who can be called \"movie authors,\" for lack of a better term; those who have had multiple novels adapted into films now, because of writing screenplay-friendly books or having an amazing agent or whatever the reason. And as far as the traditional literary world, these writers can be found scattered all the way through the food chain: from those who are highly respected in the academic community (like Michael Cunningham, for example, author of both The Hours and A Home At the End of the World ), to those whose books can scarcely be called literature in the first place (like Ira Levin, author of the \"screenplay novels\" Sliver and Rosemary's Baby and The Stepford Wives and The Boys From Brazil ...whew!), to of course all the Stephen Kings and John Grishams and Michael Crichtons of the world, who have an odd mishmash of both mainstream and literary audiences. And it might surprise some, but I'm actually a fan of several movie authors; I mean, you know, as long as you take them in the right context, and understand that the books are pretty quick reads that lend themselves to simple scripts, there are actually some pretty decent writers out there who happen to have had several manuscripts that have been shipped off to Hollywood. Take Tom Perrotta, for example, author of Election , which was made into a highly successful movie in 1999, and was in fact arguably the film that turned Reese Witherspoon into a bona-fide star; and whose book I just happened to read a number of years ago on one of those dreary Saturdays we have here in Chicago, where you want to do nothing more than read random books for free for eight hours in one of those superstores while lounging around their cafe, thin books that you would never want to actually spend money to read. And Election , to tell you the truth, turned out not only to be a lot better than I was expecting, but so much different than the movie; the original novel is quite the serious drama, as a matter of fact, not the farcical comedy the adapted screenplay turned out to be. I mean, don't get me wrong, both versions are entertaining; just that the book has a gravitas I wasn't expecting, a much darker and more pessimistic outlook towards humanity, that I really respected after thinking it was going to be a goofy Hollywood-friendly comedy. So when I learned last year that Perrotta was also the author of Little Children , made recently into an Oscar-nominated drama starring Kate Winslet, Jennifer Connelly, Jackie Earle Haley and others, I ended up... ...more I read Little Children after a friend recommended it to me and after I read the actual novel that inspired the movie Election. Little Children is a fantastic book to read when you're in your mid-to-late 20's-early 30's. There was something about the book to me that made me very uncomfortable in some parts because I could recognise my own fears of getting older, being a graduate student, and the possibility that so many years of schooling could amount to absolutely zero. Perhaps it is also because I read Little Children after a friend recommended it to me and after I read the actual novel that inspired the movie Election. Little Children is a fantastic book to read when you're in your mid-to-late 20's-early 30's. There was something about the book to me that made me very uncomfortable in some parts because I could recognise my own fears of getting older, being a graduate student, and the possibility that so many years of schooling could amount to absolutely zero. Perhaps it is also because I grew-up in the area where this fictional town exists, North of Boston, that I felt uneasy with the text. I recognised many of the references, landmarks, and the beach that Sarah and Todd runaway to for the day, I spent many a childhood afternoon. The small town, the seemingly \"cliche\" characters: these people ALL exist in the context of small, posh New England towns. In all, I loved the book and hated to finish it. I love a book that is not only enjoyable but makes me feel rather haunted and uneasy, and gives me a reason not to return to my hometown ever. again. ...more Wowzers-- If you thought the movie was good (which it was) then you'll love the book. Simply amazing. And harsh. And brutal. And real. The child molester story was hauntingly sad, and the affair with 'The Prom King' was wonderfully written. You FEEL the excitement mixed with shame oozing from the characters. This was a great read- so good that I have bought copies of this book for friends to read! Little Children by Tom Perrotta: A little stream-of-consciousness exercise... Intense. Polarizing. Revolting. Train Wreck. Cloying. I know these people. I am not these people. I understand these people. Did he really just say that? Sad. Comic. A perfect satire. Upsetting. Wonderfully unlikable characters. Suburban noir. Delee must read this. So I've been in this women's book club at my lib for about a year now. We've been reading serious and usually depressing historical fiction that is aimed at Little Children by Tom Perrotta: A little stream-of-consciousness exercise... Intense. Polarizing. Revolting. Train Wreck. Cloying. I know these people. I am not these people. I understand these people. Did he really just say that? Sad. Comic. A perfect satire. Upsetting. Wonderfully unlikable characters. Suburban noir. Delee must read this. So I've been in this women's book club at my lib for about a year now. We've been reading serious and usually depressing historical fiction that is aimed at a female audience. I have to say, there hasn't been a single book I've been all that psyched to take home, though a few of the selections did turn out to be pretty darn good. Anyway, I was really itching to spice things up a bit. Usually our librarian chooses the books, but the last time we got together I boldly brought a few different books with me and tried to sell them to the group. This was the one I was able to sell. So we're reading it for our next meeting. And now I am NERVOUS. I wanted to spice things up in our group and spice we will have. This book is SPICY. And a little edgy and naughty. At first I wasn't sure what I thought about it. It was kind of repulsive. But also oddly satisfying. I just couldn't put it down. But I was also kind of hiding my eyes and peeking through my fingers. By page 50 or so I had finally let go and embraced the craziness of this novel and had come around to the side of loving it. It is really, really clever. I just hope that the gals in my book club will be able to get past Slutty Kay and her champagne bottle and come to love it too. Or not. Either way, it will be an interesting night at the library. :) ...more 4.5 stars - Incredible. I really loved it. Essentially, this is a very cynical book that explores the various forms selfishness can take through the viewpoints of several deeply flawed characters living in suburbia. If you don't count the measly 5% I read the night I started this one, then I read it in one day, not wanting to put it down. Apparently there is a movie based on it that I need to check out now. Loved this one and think it is a book that begs to be discussed in a group. But be warned 4.5 stars - Incredible. I really loved it. Essentially, this is a very cynical book that explores the various forms selfishness can take through the viewpoints of several deeply flawed characters living in suburbia. If you don't count the measly 5% I read the night I started this one, then I read it in one day, not wanting to put it down. Apparently there is a movie based on it that I need to check out now. Loved this one and think it is a book that begs to be discussed in a group. But be warned, if you must like the main characters to enjoy a book, like \"feel-good\" novels, or prefer a neat and happy ending, then this is not the book for you. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: She would be a mentor and an inspiration to girls like herself, the quiet ones who'd sleepwalked their way through high school, knowing nothing except that they couldn't possibly be happy with any of the choices the world seemed to be offering them. First Sentence: The young mothers were telling each other how tired they were. ...more If you have seen the movie adaptation of this book starring Kate Winslet, which is very good, it follows the book pretty closely until the very end. \"Is That All There Is?\" \u2013 Peggy Lee This is a satire about traditional suburban life in mainstream America. Almost everyone seems to be living the idyllic American dream. Two of the characters, Todd (married to Kathy) and Sarah (married to Richard) feel shackled, disillusioned and unfulfilled by the constraints and trappings of their conventional sub If you have seen the movie adaptation of this book starring Kate Winslet, which is very good, it follows the book pretty closely until the very end. \"Is That All There Is?\" \u2013 Peggy Lee This is a satire about traditional suburban life in mainstream America. Almost everyone seems to be living the idyllic American dream. Two of the characters, Todd (married to Kathy) and Sarah (married to Richard) feel shackled, disillusioned and unfulfilled by the constraints and trappings of their conventional suburban life. There\u2019s got to be something better than this, right? In high school Todd was a popular football star. He\u2019s in his mid-thirties now but still incredibly handsome and fit. Todd feels emasculated, powerless and insignificant in his matronly role as a stay-at-home dad. Todd has never held a job and has become complacent in his role as a mother figure. His wife Kathy resents his lack of ambition, is tired of being the family breadwinner and would prefer to be a traditional stay at home mom. Sara dropped out of graduate school to enter a marriage with a financially secure but unattractive older man to escape a life in a monotonous office job. Her husband has developed an unhealthy obsession with an Internet porn star. Sara feels trapped in her loveless marriage and in her role as a stay-at-home mom to their 3-yr-old daughter. To get through her mind-numbing days, Sara constantly tells herself: \"think like an anthropologist. I'm a researcher studying the behavior of boring suburban women. I am not a boring suburban woman myself.\" Todd\u2019s wife, Kathy, and his lover, Sara, are interesting contrast. Kathy is drop dead gorgeous with the flawless appearance of a professional model. She has a fascinating career as a successful filmmaker of documentaries but she really wants to stay home and raise children. In contrast, Sarah is frumpy, squat and plain with frizzy hair. She is a stay-at home mom married to a man she loathes. Sara longs for the seemingly glamorous career, physical beauty and husband that Kathy has. Each woman covets the life that the other woman is living. There is a section in this book called \u201cMadam Bovary\u201d. Sara joins a neighborhood book club and they read Madame Bovary by Gustave Flaubert (1857). Madam Bovary and Little Children have some parallel themes: infidelity, unrealistic expectations of life and love, how traditional feminine roles in society are undervalued and belittled and how we are all ultimately responsible for the choices we make in life. During the book club discussion Sara\u2019s adversary, Mary Ann, an extremely conservative woman, slams Madam Bovary for being a \u201cslut\u201d. Sarah defends the character, calling her a feminist and praising her efforts to struggle against the constraints society as heroic. She says: \u201cMadame Bovary\u2019s problem wasn\u2019t that she committed adultery,\u201d Sarah declared, in a voice full of calm certainty. \u201cIt was she committed adultery with losers. She never found a partner worthy of her heroic passion.\u201d Hummmmmmm. lol! There is also a seedy subplot about a convicted pedophile who moves into the neighborhood. His appearance sets the already nervous parents into hyper-overprotection overdrive. I think the presence of this sordid character might be a device to highlight the point that there is behavior far more heinous than infidelity. Some reviewers have expressed sympathy for this character, personally I found him repellant and creepy. ...more I'm usually not this harsh in my criticisms of a book and I can often find something redeeming in any story but this is just one of the most overrated novels I've ever read. I was so excited to read it when I heard talk about it and saw it on bookshelves but I was sorely mistaken. This book reads like a harlequin piece trying to dress itself as high literature and it fails on both ends. The characters are plastic, unlikeable and unbelievable and the story is asinine and flails arround trying to I'm usually not this harsh in my criticisms of a book and I can often find something redeeming in any story but this is just one of the most overrated novels I've ever read. I was so excited to read it when I heard talk about it and saw it on bookshelves but I was sorely mistaken. This book reads like a harlequin piece trying to dress itself as high literature and it fails on both ends. The characters are plastic, unlikeable and unbelievable and the story is asinine and flails arround trying to make a point (a point I still couldn't explain to you). Also, the allusions to Madame Bovary are almost insulting. I usually tell people to read something and make up their own minds but if someone asked me if it was worth the time I would give them a resounding NO. ...more I enjoyed the movie adaptation more, but the book is still a solid read. While not every aspect of the story necessarily rings true, Perotta does a fantastic job of creating a secret world between Sarah and Todd, using the characters' own flaws to develop his story and build suspense. Personally, I don't know that the sex-offender subplot did much for the story and I could've done without it, particularly considering its overall \"preachy\" tone (which may be unavoidable when writing about so delicate a subject). While I can appreciate that the idea was to parallel a l While not every aspect of the story necessarily rings true, Perotta does a fantastic job of creating a secret world between Sarah and Todd, using the characters' own flaws to develop his story and build suspense. Personally, I don't know that the sex-offender subplot did much for the story and I could've done without it, particularly considering its overall \"preachy\" tone (which may be unavoidable when writing about so delicate a subject). While I can appreciate that the idea was to parallel a local public scandal against the fragile world created by Sarah and Todd's own private scandal, Perotta gave himself enough to work with in Sarah and Todd and their respective situations and personalities that he could have developed his story without the outside element. Their little world was in itself so unstable that it didn't need the outside impetus to implode, and I found it a little disappointing that Perotta's focus was distracted. However, I found the book, in all its scandalousness, juicy and enjoyable; in my opinion Perotta is a modern Tolstoy, a master of pinpointing banal but heartwrenching details. Plus-- I'm sure it would be fun to discuss in a book club! ...more So far this year, I've been doing a great job of picking out books exactly in line with my tastes. This Tom Perrotta book was an enjoyable quick read, an appropriate change of pace after \"The Denial of Death,\" which was the last thing I read--and a book I had a hard time getting my mind off of, days afterwards. Perrotta writes in a relatively straight-forward manner, with lots of dialogue. Lots of really fucking GREAT dialogue. The story is about a few early-thirties-aged individuals in a small t So far this year, I've been doing a great job of picking out books exactly in line with my tastes. This Tom Perrotta book was an enjoyable quick read, an appropriate change of pace after \"The Denial of Death,\" which was the last thing I read--and a book I had a hard time getting my mind off of, days afterwards. Perrotta writes in a relatively straight-forward manner, with lots of dialogue. Lots of really fucking GREAT dialogue. The story is about a few early-thirties-aged individuals in a small town, in which a convicted child molester has just moved back to, taking up residence with his mother. A man and a woman, both bored with their home lives, start seeing each other, and the guy joins an amateur tackle football league with a bunch of cops, and routinely harrasses the ex-con at his mother's home. Summarizing isn't something I do particularly well, so I'm going to leave it at that. The book is mostly about characters, and less so about plot, up until the end, which starts to feel somewhat plotted, but then goes in a direction that went completely agains what I'd been expecting. ...more ***NO SPOILERS*** Perrotta got it just right in this expertly written examination of suburban ennui and disillusionment, focusing on some young married-with-children couples and how they interact with each other, in both private and public ways. It's sometimes uncomfortable and a touch sad, and that's what makes it so great--there's real truth here. Scenes at a public pool work especially well to highlight the \"suburbanness\" of these characters' lives. Anyone who's every wondered, \"This is it?!\" ***NO SPOILERS*** Perrotta got it just right in this expertly written examination of suburban ennui and disillusionment, focusing on some young married-with-children couples and how they interact with each other, in both private and public ways. It's sometimes uncomfortable and a touch sad, and that's what makes it so great--there's real truth here. Scenes at a public pool work especially well to highlight the \"suburbanness\" of these characters' lives. Anyone who's every wondered, \"This is it?!\" when pondering their mundane lives may find Little Children pretty resonant. ...more Oh, Tom Perrotta. How I adore you. There is one common denominator in Perrotta books: infidelity/adultery. I've often questioned whether this is a common denominator in Perrotta's relationships, as well, or simply a fantasty he entertains. But whatever, I digress. Little Children is a dark satire into middle/upper-class suburbia, where moms at the playground compete with each other on who has the nicest J. Crew khakis or who remembers to bring the snacks, stay-at-home-dads can be labeled \"Prom King Oh, Tom Perrotta. How I adore you. There is one common denominator in Perrotta books: infidelity/adultery. I've often questioned whether this is a common denominator in Perrotta's relationships, as well, or simply a fantasty he entertains. But whatever, I digress. Little Children is a dark satire into middle/upper-class suburbia, where moms at the playground compete with each other on who has the nicest J. Crew khakis or who remembers to bring the snacks, stay-at-home-dads can be labeled \"Prom King\", and women with sexual ambiguity can still mourn the loss of their college girlfriends who left them to marry rich male doctors, while looking after their children and remaining oblivious that their husbands are addicted to online smut. Ah, Suburbia. The main characters, Sarah (sexual ambiguous girl) and Todd (\"Prom King\") begin an unlikely affair, considering Sarah is frumpy, frizzy, and frazzled, and Todd is extremely handsome. Sarah fantasizes about running away together while Todd fantastizes about avoiding the BAR exam that his wife desperately wants him to pass. The story complicates when a convinced sex-offender/pedophile, Ronnie, moves to town, a man known for \"exposing\" himself to girl scouts, and also suspected for the murder of a nine-year-old, which has never been proven. Oh, and of course, there's Larry, the retired cop who becomes obsessed with Ronnie, even though the person who gets the brunt of Larry's obsession is poor Ronnie's mother, the only character you'll actually like. And that's mostly a pity-like. Overall, a very dark read, sometimes hard to get through, always interesting. You won't root for anybody but yet you'll like them all. Perrotta has a gift for making the mundane interesting, for pointing out everything that may or does happen in every-day life. A great read among the many other books he has to offer. ...more I was disturbed by the topics raised in this book not so much because I am a prude but rather because I'm an idealist. Perhaps I am a bit naive but I'd certainly like to think that infidelity is less common place than the literary world makes it seem. Perrota definitely likes to incorporate sexuality into his writing and Little Children is no exception. Oddly, I found the characterization of the convicted child molester less unsettling than the pantie-sniffing web surfer or his wife's affair. We I was disturbed by the topics raised in this book not so much because I am a prude but rather because I'm an idealist. Perhaps I am a bit naive but I'd certainly like to think that infidelity is less common place than the literary world makes it seem. Perrota definitely likes to incorporate sexuality into his writing and Little Children is no exception. Oddly, I found the characterization of the convicted child molester less unsettling than the pantie-sniffing web surfer or his wife's affair. Were it not for the subject matter, in all likelihood I would have rated this as at least a four star novel because Perrota is a master storyteller, his pacing is admirable. He alternates between characters, their overlapping stories intersecting, their alternate views offering a glimpse into varying perspectives. The book begins slowly, reeling the reader in bit by bit, rationed pieces of information dropped like a frustrated parent dispensing M & M's in an attempt to lure the reluctant toddler out of the toy store. As the intensity of the story increase so too does the pacing. The time spent on each character shortens, whipping back and forth between characters rapidly. Perrota knows just when to end a section leaving the reader in suspense as he switches to someone else's view. At times I was tempted to skip ahead in order to satisfy my curiosity regarding a particular character. But before I could decide I was engrossed in the next character's perspective, again curious, again itching to find out what would happen. That said, I found the ending surprisingly abrupt and utterly unsatisfying. There were too many unanswered questions as well as behavior that simply did not jive with several of the characters' previous actions. ...more Man, I have a difficult time with this book (especially in light of recently seeing the movie). Perrotta uses his usual awkward grace in developing awkward characters, and created a novel more complete and thoughtful than any of his previous ones. He still has some of the same problems as in his earlier novels (the random addition of a secondary or tertiary character's perspective for just one brief segment, for convenience in the plot, is as annoying here as it is in Election ), but I felt like Man, I have a difficult time with this book (especially in light of recently seeing the movie). Perrotta uses his usual awkward grace in developing awkward characters, and created a novel more complete and thoughtful than any of his previous ones. He still has some of the same problems as in his earlier novels (the random addition of a secondary or tertiary character's perspective for just one brief segment, for convenience in the plot, is as annoying here as it is in Election ), but I felt like was making a story more than the sum of its parts. However, I'm always just a little creeped out by a message that he seems to be pushing by the end (I've read it a coupla times now, so obviously something charms me), that a lot of your satisfaction depends on your attractiveness and there's really not much you can do about that, 'tleast in the suburban East Coast communities he's portraying here. It may be true, I wouldn't know, but it's an unsettling thing to keep from a good novel. ...more A quick and enjoyable read, with lots to say about what marriage and love and child-rearing really mean. What they really mean, according to Perotta, is a lot of unfulfilled fantasies, disappointments, and a touch of real enjoyment. Since I generally view life in this sort of semi-cynical way, I found a lot to identify with in this book. Another aspect of the book that I liked was the way Perotta dealt with the arrival of a convicted sex offender in the sleepy suburban neighborhood he paints so A quick and enjoyable read, with lots to say about what marriage and love and child-rearing really mean. What they really mean, according to Perotta, is a lot of unfulfilled fantasies, disappointments, and a touch of real enjoyment. Since I generally view life in this sort of semi-cynical way, I found a lot to identify with in this book. Another aspect of the book that I liked was the way Perotta dealt with the arrival of a convicted sex offender in the sleepy suburban neighborhood he paints so convincingly. I liked his light touch, his suggestions that neither utter condemnation nor complete forgiveness are appropriate for Ronnie, \"the pervert.\" Ronnie is a horribly unpleasant character, but he is capable of love, loneliness, and shame, just like the rest of us. And Ronnie's great adversary, Larry, is also very unpleasantly flawed. Three cheers for books that admit there is gray in the world and not just black and white! ...more I don't usually read a book after seeing the movie, but there were a few memorable lines in the movie that I was hoping originated in the book. An interesting story about the choices you make in your daily life, combating the terror of normality that hits once you have become an adult, and the consequences of both. \"What was adult life but one moment of weakness piled on top of another? Most people just fell in line like obedient little children, doing exactly what society expected of them at any I don't usually read a book after seeing the movie, but there were a few memorable lines in the movie that I was hoping originated in the book. An interesting story about the choices you make in your daily life, combating the terror of normality that hits once you have become an adult, and the consequences of both. \"What was adult life but one moment of weakness piled on top of another? Most people just fell in line like obedient little children, doing exactly what society expected of them at any given moment, all the while pretending that they'd actually made some sort of choice.\" ...more Mme e M. BOVARY Il personaggio del capolavoro di Flaubert infesta questo romanzo cos\u00ec come l\u2019odore del caff\u00e8 francese impregna i negozi Starbucks, dice il critico del New York Times (Will Blythe questa volta): a un certo punto, appare anche un gruppo di lettura su \u2018Madame Bovary\u2019 che viene definita da Mary Ann \u2018una troia\u2019, mentre Sarah ne pronuncer\u00e0 elogio e sosterr\u00e0 motivazioni. E\u2019 possibile che la vita di provincia (vita davvero provinciale in queste pagine) influisca: generale insoddisfazione, Mme e M. BOVARY Il personaggio del capolavoro di Flaubert infesta questo romanzo cos\u00ec come l\u2019odore del caff\u00e8 francese impregna i negozi Starbucks, dice il critico del New York Times (Will Blythe questa volta): a un certo punto, appare anche un gruppo di lettura su \u2018Madame Bovary\u2019 che viene definita da Mary Ann \u2018una troia\u2019, mentre Sarah ne pronuncer\u00e0 elogio e sosterr\u00e0 motivazioni. E\u2019 possibile che la vita di provincia (vita davvero provinciale in queste pagine) influisca: generale insoddisfazione, voglia di cambiamento, sogni a occhi aperti irrealizzabili e irraggiungibili, rifiuto di accettare la realt\u00e0 e le cose per come stanno\u2026 Se il fenomeno ha trovato la sua prima definizione nell\u2019Ottocento, non si pu\u00f2 certo pensare che sia tramontato. Al contrario, \u00e8 vivo pi\u00f9 che mai: allora, fonte d\u2019ispirazione e \u2018tentazione\u2019 era la letteratura, erano i romanzi \u2013 adesso abbiamo mille altri stimoli in questa direzione, citare la televisione sembra quasi preistoria. Come condannare il senso d\u2019insoddisfazione e la sensazione di noia di questi personaggi (noia anche se si lamentano della stanchezza)? La loro realt\u00e0 \u00e8 oggettivamente opaca, mediocre. Si direbbe quasi che siano i primi ad avere figli: la maternit\u00e0 \u00e8 vissuta come una fatica incommensurabile. La paternit\u00e0 ha svolgimento diverso: Todd (nel film, Patrick Wilson, qui non cos\u00ec in parte come in \u2018Hard Candy\u2019) sembra viverla in modo sereno, in realt\u00e0 a me sembra che sia un modo ossessivo, un rifugio, un riparo, la sua fuga quotidiana; il marito di Sarah, invece, sembra ignorarla tout court. Le giovani madri stavano parlando della loro stanchezza. Era uno degli argomenti che preferivano, insieme alle abitudini alimentari, di sonno e di defecazione dei loro pargoletti, ai pregi di certi asili nido locali, e alla difficolt\u00e0 di fare esercizio fisico con regolarit\u00e0 , \u00e8 l\u2019incipit di queste cinquecento pagine. I matrimoni sono in crisi anche se nessuno sembra rendersene conto: Mary Ann programma l\u2019amplesso settimanale col marito ogni marted\u00ec sera alle 21 (i bambini da quella parte del mondo vanno a letto prima che da noi), sicura che sia la ricetta giusta per una sana vita sessuale matrimoniale (salvo poi rendersi conto che il marito subisce la cosa, la scongiura di saltare un marted\u00ec, e di smettere di tormentare il loro primogenito); Sarah, la protagonista (Kate Winslett nel film, molto azzeccata) e suo marito Richard non si toccano da mesi. Anche perch\u00e9 lui preferisci passare ore navigando su siti porno, acquistando biancheria intima femminile gi\u00e0 indossata, che inala come se fosse un calvados (epper\u00f2, di tutti, sembra il personaggio pi\u00f9 vitale, con maggiore slancio d\u2019avventura, con pi\u00f9 prospettiva di futuro). Perrotta ha la vista acuta e apparentemente sembra aver la mano guantata con tutti i suoi personaggi, compresa Mary Ann, compreso il pedofilo (che spaventa gli abitanti del paese, ma regala anche un sacco di eccitazione e occupazione, riempie il tempo, cura momentaneamente la noia): personalmente, questa volta, ho invece avuto la sensazione che nessuno, n\u00e9 i due protagonisti, n\u00e9 i loro partner, n\u00e9 le altre figure del romanzo, bambini inclusi, si salvi. Perrotta, da molti considerato il Cechov americano, generalmente sa dare umanit\u00e0 senza ricorrere al sentimentalismo: qui, per\u00f2, mi sembra in particolare vena satirica e tagliente. Se \u00e8 vero che c\u2019\u00e8 un momento di simpatia, perfino empatia, verso ciascuno, \u00e8 anche vero che si tratta appunto di un attimo, e, facendo il bilancio finale, a salvarsi \u00e8 solo Richard, il marito di Sarah, che sa sfuggire al bovarismo, dilagante tra il resto dell\u2019umanit\u00e0 locale, insegue persegue e sembra raggiungere il suo sogno. Lei si trovava l\u00ec perch\u00e9 aveva baciato un uomo in quel luogo esatto e assaporato la felicit\u00e0 per la prima volta nella sua vita. Era l\u00ec perch\u00e9 lui le aveva detto che sarebbe fuggito con lei, e lei gli aveva creduto: per pochi, brevi, intensi e dolcissimi istanti lei aveva creduto di essere speciale, una persona fortunata, un personaggio di una storia d\u2019amore a lieto fine. Piccoli adulti, grandi adolescenti. ...more The movie, starring Kate Winslet, was nominated for three Academy Awards (I didn't see it.). The book wasn't that great. I mean, it wasn't bad. If it had been, I would've stopped reading it. I'm not one of the many people I know who feel compelled to finish reading a book once they start it. The book kept me reading in the first half because I thought it had potential for a big payoff in the second half, but then it mostly disappointed. The storyline involving Ronald James McGorvey, convicted se The movie, starring Kate Winslet, was nominated for three Academy Awards (I didn't see it.). The book wasn't that great. I mean, it wasn't bad. If it had been, I would've stopped reading it. I'm not one of the many people I know who feel compelled to finish reading a book once they start it. The book kept me reading in the first half because I thought it had potential for a big payoff in the second half, but then it mostly disappointed. The storyline involving Ronald James McGorvey, convicted sex offender, took some interesting and disturbing twists, but otherwise nothing unexpected happened. Little Children was depressing to me. It's important to note the difference between depressing, as in the case of Little Children, and sad, as in the case of The Time Traveler's Wife. For one thing, it's very easy for a book, movie, or show to make me feel sad. I'm a cryer. Also, I like to feel sad sometimes, especially about books, etc. It's very cathartic. On the other hand, I hate feeling depressed. In Little Children, there is not a single happily married couple. It focuses on 3 very unhappily married couples, but manages to highlight at least four other unhappy marriages throughout the course of the novel. I'm not just being a wide-eyed idealist here. I'm not looking for perfection; In fact, I find that in fictional characters imperfection is usually preferred. But, Perrotta seems to be making some greater commentary about marriage as the end of happiness, and I'm just not willing to accept that. At first, I was going to give Tom Perrotta credit for making me feel something, even if it was just depressed. Generally, I think having an emotional response to a book is a sure sign of good writing, even if you don't like the book. Take, for example, Catcher in the Rye (That's right, I just said I don't like Catcher in the Rye. In fact, I hate it. What are you going to do about it?). If I ran into that punk-ass imaginary brat Holden Caulfield on the street, I'd trip him. But seriously, I've got to give it to J.D. Salinger for creating a character that irritates me so thoroughly. But, back to Tom Perrotta. By the end of the book, I realized it wasn't really anything in the book that made me feel depressed. In fact, I've got about zero sympathy for any of the characters. I simply find the idea that there is no such thing as a happy marriage depressing. The book itself was mostly just...m'eh. There was one thing I really appreciated about the story at the end. SPOILERS AHEAD!! I like that Sarah and Todd don't end up running away together. I was rooting for them a little, I admit. But, in general, I'm not a huge fan of books or movies romanticizing adultery. As much as I get sucked into those fictional relationships, I'm always aware of just how distasteful I find them to be in real life. If Sarah were my friend, I'd definitely want her to leave Richard and to be happy. But, I'd want her to do it before she slept with someone else. And, I can't help but imagining myself on the other side: as Todd's wife Kathy. Working all day, supporting my husband while he has a summer fling with someone else. Anyway, I was glad it didn't work out. It seemed more true-to-life to me. (I know, I know, I was just griping about how Perrotta didn't give me a single \"happily-ever-after\" couple. And it's true, I probably would've liked it a little if Todd and Sarah had been that couple. But, I liked the way he resolved it.) ...more A lot of people find it hard to remember the first good movie that they ever saw. For me it is a piece of cake. It's this movie that struck me so hard that I kept gazing at the black screen with the cast names in bewilderment. It was so neat and so tidy. Everything was a little bit cheesy in the start giving you the feel-good movie feeling. The lovely voice of the narrator that entertained you even though he was talking about Richard's creepy fetish. A lot of dark humor. And then just at the end A lot of people find it hard to remember the first good movie that they ever saw. For me it is a piece of cake. It's this movie that struck me so hard that I kept gazing at the black screen with the cast names in bewilderment. It was so neat and so tidy. Everything was a little bit cheesy in the start giving you the feel-good movie feeling. The lovely voice of the narrator that entertained you even though he was talking about Richard's creepy fetish. A lot of dark humor. And then just at the end everything twists around, and instead of giving you the end that you want this movie gives you the end that you deserve. Why did it take me so long to read the novel? I just wanted time to try forget the movie \u2013like it's going to happen!- or maybe just wait for its effect to fade. I also wanted to read it in a phase in my life that I'll be able to absorb the full meaning of it. This isn't a happy novel. Matter of fact if the word disappointment turned into a novel it would be \"Little Children\". Perrotta's prose is so strong and engaging you can't but flow through the pages. His way of writing is very distinguished, the details he gives stick in the memory forever. And the most important thing is that his novels leave you with the feeling of missing limbs. Somehow I always feel like they're not finished. I always want to know what happens next. But he doesn't tell you \u2013I don't see him as a sequels guy- and that's what's so good about him. He always leaves me \u2013 the reader- with a sense of loss, with the feeling of sadness for leaving the characters behind. I'm really disappointed by the novel \u2013 in a good way- its ending is even more careless and disappointing than the movie \u2013 just like real life. This is the novel you should read if you feel like you're spinning in the same circle of old shit. By the time I'm 31 I'll read this novel again and there are two possibilities: 1.\tI really like it because it is so true, I cry, I kill myself. 2.\tI hate it, laugh at myself for liking it before, burn that shit. Hopefully the latter, but until then \u2026\u2026 this was fiiiine, just fine. ...more I'm beginning to notice a pattern: I started reading The Abstinence Teacher on a flight, and was so absorbed that I spent the entire next day at home, finishing the bulk of it in one day - which is SO unusual for me (I usually take weeks to finish even the easiest books). About the same thing happened with this one - covering about 80 pages on slow subways, I finished it on the following day home sick from work - staying up late to get through the last, terrifyingly suspenseful pages. No wonder I'm beginning to notice a pattern: I started reading The Abstinence Teacher on a flight, and was so absorbed that I spent the entire next day at home, finishing the bulk of it in one day - which is SO unusual for me (I usually take weeks to finish even the easiest books). About the same thing happened with this one - covering about 80 pages on slow subways, I finished it on the following day home sick from work - staying up late to get through the last, terrifyingly suspenseful pages. No wonder this was made into a movie. Shockingly, I really loved this book, even though the characters never ceased to revolt me. You've got a couple adulterers, a child molester, his depressed mother who is waiting to die, a bunch of gross football players, numerous unhappy wives and husbands, internet porn, the whole deal. Conclusion: suburbia is CREEPY. Everyone is miserable, and these poor three- and four- year olds are disturbingly innocent witnesses to their parents' unraveling. Perotta paints a bleak picture. However bleak and SCARY (nothing more bone chilling to me than a young child's disappearance), Perotta's exposition of plot and character are way up to snuff. After I finished, once I calmed my heart rate and assured myself that the doors and windows were locked, I experience a very similar train of thought as after finishing The Abstinence Teacher. How urgent/present is Perotta's moral imperative? It is obvious that homeboy is critical of religion, and the institution of marriage - though his exact criticism is unclear to me. Most of his characters are divorced, in the middle of a divorce, on the brink of divorce, experiencing a longing for past \"glory days\" or repeatedly going over \"what would/could have been.\" If I had to guess, his \"message\" is not a moral imperative but rather a quiet call to investigate the accepted wisdom on how a middle class life progresses. Or maybe he just thinks that people's lives are interesting and sad and wants to write a good story. ...more I really liked this novel--intelligently constructed, defined characters, realistic resolution. I did not, however, enjoy the story. I think there was too much going on--the sex offender, while definitely a part of the story, was more an afterthought. The same could be said for Larry Moon--his existence is so tertiary, you have to wonder if he wasn't created solely to torment Ronnie McGorvey. The true meat of this tale is the love affair between Sarah and Todd, with less emphasis on the happy end I really liked this novel--intelligently constructed, defined characters, realistic resolution. I did not, however, enjoy the story. I think there was too much going on--the sex offender, while definitely a part of the story, was more an afterthought. The same could be said for Larry Moon--his existence is so tertiary, you have to wonder if he wasn't created solely to torment Ronnie McGorvey. The true meat of this tale is the love affair between Sarah and Todd, with less emphasis on the happy ending and more on the imperfect perfections in suburban neighborhoods. The sanctimonious soccer moms, the husband with a panty-huffing addiction, the overbearing wife, and play-date lifestyle portrayal each offer a palpable view of the secrets of suburban life. Overall, I really liked this book. My major complaint is that the ending is disjointed, seemingly unrelated save for sharing the same characters as the rest of the story. If those characters present in this final scene are actually making some sort of attempt at personal growth, the fulfillment of that is lost on me, especially given the animosity that ran rampant among these sets of individuals throughout the rest of the story. Some reflections on the title: at first, because I knew there was a sex offender character, I thought this was going to be a differently dark tale, more The Lovely Bones-ish, if you will. Instead, the title seems to refer more to each character's child-like or childish quality. With Sarah, she practices self-greed. With Todd, he doesn't wanna do what he's told (pass the bar exam, get a real job, etc.). Larry Moon thinks he can beat up the bad guy and save the neighborhood, and the play-ground set (those pesky soccer moms) are too busy trying to be better than each other to realize they're poisoning their lives. Perrotta delivers an adequate portrayal of the modern human, tapping into the unsaid and the unknown beliefs and misgivings of us all. ...more The movie itself was one I loved, so I thought to see if the book attracted me as well. I liked this book very much as I thought it was a morally ambiguous story. It delves deeper into the characters' various stories. Sarah, the bored housewife with a daughter she doesn't seem to like, with a bisexual tendency but married due to fear of boredom and being stuck in a rut. Todd (known as Brad in the movie) who is the \"prom king\" with a son he adores and a bar exams he detests looming. Ronnie, the r The movie itself was one I loved, so I thought to see if the book attracted me as well. I liked this book very much as I thought it was a morally ambiguous story. It delves deeper into the characters' various stories. Sarah, the bored housewife with a daughter she doesn't seem to like, with a bisexual tendency but married due to fear of boredom and being stuck in a rut. Todd (known as Brad in the movie) who is the \"prom king\" with a son he adores and a bar exams he detests looming. Ronnie, the released paedophile, who lives with his mom. Larry, the retired policeman suffering from PTSD/guilt and angry Ronnie's released and believes he did kill a little girl. Richard, Sarah's husband, who has a fixation with an online porn star \"Slutty Kay\" and leaves to meet her across the country. Kathy, Todd's successful documentary wife who is more attractive than Sarah. May, Ronnie's mother. This book explores the connections between the adults and their marriages/lives and decisions they make to either pursue their dreams (or what they think they want at the moment) or chase away boredom/loneliness. As mentioned, this is a very morally ambiguous story with every character revealing what drives their actions, as unlikeable as they may, but understandable when we, the reader, realize that we also do petty, unattractive things (though I suppose most of us haven't killed someone or vandalized or revealed ourselves to underage children). While this book leaves on an open thread - what happens after the unintended gathering in the park of four characters - some issues and problems are also resolved. Perhaps in an unsatisfactory manner to those who would believe happy endings, but Perrotta never pretends this is a story that could have idyllic endings, despite Sarah and Todd's wishful thinkings. ...more I get it. I do. I've been Sarah, and I've been Todd. I appreciate the \"unconventional\" \"surprise\" \"totally unexpected\" ending. I understand the author's intent and artistic expression. I just really, really, REALLY don't care. I read this book because it had good reviews, I was interested to try a new author,and it was a kindle monthly deal. But now I just wish I had my 4 hours of life and $3.99 back. This book is the literary equivalent of what The Sims is to role playing games. It's a story th I get it. I do. I've been Sarah, and I've been Todd. I appreciate the \"unconventional\" \"surprise\" \"totally unexpected\" ending. I understand the author's intent and artistic expression. I just really, really, REALLY don't care. I read this book because it had good reviews, I was interested to try a new author,and it was a kindle monthly deal. But now I just wish I had my 4 hours of life and $3.99 back. This book is the literary equivalent of what The Sims is to role playing games. It's a story that mimics the banality of \"real life\". I don't need to make virtual family make their beds, water their plants, and go to work or school in the sims. I do that in real life, every day. I don't need to read about the angst of a well-off WASP and her first-world ennui with her marriage (that allows her to be a SAHM while thinking that she \"doesn't deserve to live in a bigger house in a nicer neighborhood\" than her (also married and a SAHD) boyfriend), her hubby's affection for online porn, or some almost-middle-aged jock's self pity, lack of direction/motivation, or affair with someone who doesn't measure up to his exacting standards of physical beauty. This was the shiniest, most self-pitying book of learned helplessness and refusal of personal responsibility that I have ever read. The characters are one-dimensional, their interactions borderline meaningless, and the whole premise entirely self-indulgent and just plain whiny. Read at your own risk. I just wanted to shake these people until they had some sense of a world that exists outside of white suburbia where the biggest issues are a bitchy queen bee, an overbearing MIL, and a middle aged man drowning in self pity and helplessness giving himself a concussion riding a skateboard for the first time. ...more", "Title": "Little Children"},
