{"Comments": "So I was thinking that I need to get me some hot, immortal teen-boy action because that is not at all creepy and weird. The first step was to kill either one or both of my parents because I feel, statistically,<---M> that to be a YA protagonist</---M>, I would have a much better chance of meeting a hot, immortal teen-boy that way.<---F> It was surprisingly easy to do</---F>... I also needed a legitimate reason to look sad all the time so that when he first saw me, I could look a little like this: Took me FOREVER to figure So I was thinking that I need to get me some hot, immortal teen-boy action because that is not at all creepy and weird. The first step was to kill either one or both of my parents because I feel, statistically, that to be a YA protagonist, I would have a much better chance of meeting a hot, immortal teen-boy that way. It was surprisingly easy to do... I also needed a legitimate reason to look sad all the time so that when he first saw me, I could look a little like this: Took me FOREVER to figure out how to make myself and my surroundings sepia with a softglow - but I didn't want to ruin the first moment my prospective hot, immortal teen boyfriend looked at me. In this instance I decided to go to Paris because they have the best coffee shops to sit and look pensive in.\u00a0 Location, location, location.\u00a0 I wasn't going to ruin my deep, spiritual brooding with some podunk town like FORKS.\u00a0 Ha! I signed up to go to school and refused to make any friends because, once again, statistically that would impinge on my chances of meeting the hot, immortal teen boyfriend.\u00a0 In fact, I was so dedicated to this that I wiped any memory of school from my mind and never, once, thought about it. It looked hopeless for a while there but then... success! BUT, he was WAY too old so I had to throw him back and look for something barely legal. Ooookay... I'm so getting arrested for that. You know what?\u00a0 It was Zac Efron.\u00a0 He's legal, right?\u00a0 Zac Efron - famous, over 18 actor, was also a hot, immortal teen boy. Better!\u00a0 So. Much. Better. So I met him and even though he was a little bit of a jerk and really strange - I refused to behave in a socially acceptable manner and stalked him.\u00a0 Behold my success!\u00a0 We're now totally, totally in love.\u00a0 Forever.\u00a0 No take-backsies. Then stuff happened.\u00a0 Evil things.\u00a0 Scary things.\u00a0 I got held captive a lot - wicked awesome!\u00a0 But he proved how much he loved me and how much he believed in maintaining stereotypical archetypes and came to my rescue. Even though we don't really know the first things about each other, we both know we have a deep spiritual connection.\u00a0 Haha!\u00a0 Spiritual!\u00a0 Get it?\u00a0 It's funny.\u00a0 So I just want you to know that you TOO can land your own hot, immortal, teen boyfriend if you follow my simple formula for success. *Warning: unhealthy relationship dynamic not included.\u00a0 Creepy ghost romance each sold separately. ...more Oh, beautiful cover--you've lured me in once again! <+++>Die for Me</+++> is somewhere between 2 and 2.5 stars for me. What I liked about the book: * The paranormal set-up is a fairly original/unusual one. Vincent and his friends are revenants, undead guardians who help to save humans from potential danger. Their enemies are numas, who are undead evil-doers who try their best to lure humans to their deaths through various different methods. * I rather enjoyed the novelty of having a YA book set in Paris, wh Oh, beautiful cover--you've lured me in once again! <+++>Die for Me</+++> is somewhere between 2 and 2.5 stars for me. What I liked about the book: * The paranormal set-up is a fairly original/unusual one. Vincent and his friends are revenants, undead guardians who help to save humans from potential danger. Their enemies are numas, who are undead evil-doers who try their best to lure humans to their deaths through various different methods. * I rather enjoyed the novelty of having a YA book set in Paris, which is probably one of the book's key selling points. The details of the setting aren't particularly exceptional, however, though it's a nice change from reading about teens in America. * With any immortal/human relationship, the inevitable question of \"what happens when...\" arises--and in this case it's a particularly difficult one. Vincent actively chooses his lifestyle and to \"reanimate\" again and again in order to help others, and <---C>Kate</---C> doesn't think she can live with someone who constantly puts himself in danger. I liked the solution that Vincent offers to Kate so that she can be with him, and it's probably the moment with the most genuine emotion in the book. What I wish were different: * The writing seems strangely formal or mannered. Kate and Vincent have a very awkward first meeting and most of their conversations are very stilted, though they're supposed to be cute or romantic. * The relationship is set up to be almost the be-all and end-all for Kate. She's already (inexplicably) cut off all communication with her previous life and has no friends other than her sister, and there's very little adult presence in the story. In life and in literature, girls should have lives of their own outside of their love interests, and a great deal of Kate's time is spent pondering what's going on with Vincent or agonizing over their relationship. There's also not a lot of depth of emotion in this book. All the trappings of romance are there, but they're over the top romantic fantasies that don't seem real at all, but straight out of some sort of chick flick. (Pivotal date towards the end: boy shows up in a tuxedo looking like a \"movie star,\" has pre-ordered a custom dress for her from a \"chichi\" boutique, and takes her out on a rowboat to see the Eiffel Tower from the water. He then gives her several more gifts to unwrap, including a purse to match the dress, seasons tickets to the opera in their own private box, and fencing lessons. All that's missing is a strolling violinist and a guy selling roses.) * The plot is pretty simplistic, and the story would have much more tension and drama if we ever really got to care about any of the victims. The villain is also far too easy to spot! Authors, I beg of you, stay away from names that are even remotely close to those in traditional mythology unless you're writing for a grade school audience. * Above all, I just didn't get a sense of who Kate really is, or why these two are attracted to one another. She reads two books in a cafe, but as soon as she meets Vincent on page 25, there's no other clue as to what this girl is interested in or cares about. The only big scene where Kate shows initiative and takes action towards the end occurs because she is literally no longer in control of her own body. Overall, this book had a very original and promising premise (and a gorgeous cover!), but sadly just didn't live up to its potential. This review can also be found in The Midnight Garden . ...more I don't really have strong feelings about this book, but I'm leaning more towards \"disliked.\" With that in mind though, there weren't any characters I hated, I thought the general premise for the story was clever and different, and I didn't find that Plum overused clich\u00e9s or metaphors too often. Ultimately where this novel turned sour for me was the romance. I won't discount the fact that people, both young and old, can fall irrevocably in love in a short period of time. The ability to write a l I don't really have strong feelings about this book, but I'm leaning more towards \"disliked.\" With that in mind though, there weren't any characters I hated, I thought the general premise for the story was clever and different, and I didn't find that Plum overused clich\u00e9s or metaphors too often. Ultimately where this novel turned sour for me was the romance. I won't discount the fact that people, both young and old, can fall irrevocably in love in a short period of time. The ability to write a love story that portrays this in a believable manner in one short novel is not something a lot of authors have, and this is where I believe Plum failed. The beginning of the novel had hinted at some dark undertones and a touch of the macabre, but as things go on the story just morphs into a sappy love story like so many others out there. For almost the entirety of the novel, the heroine, Kate, constantly remarks on how plain and uninteresting she is. I believe that low self-esteem is one of the least attractive traits a person could have. I am really getting sick of all of these heroines thinking they're either too fat, ugly, or boring to be worthy of the attention of the love interest. I'm not saying I want these girls to be vain, and I know that every girl has insecurities, but I don't think it would take too much away from making these teens relatable by also giving them a healthy dose of confidence. Her love interest, Vincent, is of course a gorgeous immortal boy with gorgeous immortal friends, whom Kate doesn't even believe she has the right to talk to. He can't just be good-looking or mildly attractive, he has to stop traffic and turn heads and seem like a god to the heroine. And of course he has no flaws either ... except for the whole stalking and becoming obsessed with Kate, which is explained to be an effect of what he is, but still, I just found it to be so contrived. This unremarkable girl is just suddenly the most special thing to him, and Plum spent so much time having Kate tell me how unattractive she was that I really had a hard time understanding what he saw in her. His friends think she's beautiful and wonderful and the bee's knees and Vincent practically comes to worship her, but I just didn't understand it. She's not unlikable , she's just so ... blah, and I never connected with her. I don't even remember what she was supposed to look like, except I remember she described her hair as being \"lifeless,\" but unfortunately that's also what her personality felt like to me. The ending was predictable and the \"climax\" with the villain was laughable. I think Plum was trying to make the characters speak as if they were slipping back into language from their time period, but calling someone a \"farcical lifeguard-Lazarus\" is such an odd insult. Pretty much everything that came out of the villain's mouth felt out of place and strange, and I think that also had to do with their character being incredibly underdeveloped. The villain was an archetype of what a villain should be and also obviously just Vincent's antithesis. And although the villain's back-story was interesting, in person they were just a walking clich\u00e9 with cringe-inducing dialogue. The story really fell apart in the last few chapters and just became incredibly predictable. There was hardly any tension and then everything got wrapped up with a neat little bow, and this was unsatisfying and disappointing. Like I said though, I didn't hate this book, but I definitely didn't love it. With how things ended I'm curious to see where Plum will take the story though, so I'll more than likely check the next book out. I think Plum does have potential here with these immortal creatures and the lore that goes with them, so hopefully by the next book Kate will feel more self-worth and stop trying to convince me that she's not special. ...more It\u2019s started out SO good!! The book and I had SUCH an amazing connection, you know? And I was REALLY loving it; and I was getting ready to introduce it to the family; and then\u2026 *BOOM!* I got stood up at around the 40% percent line. -:- Seriously! I might as well have been wearing a prom dress. -:- ____________________________________________ After the 40% mark: this book\u2019s storyline deteriorated like\u2026 well, like deterioration. :) You know how\u2026 with some books, you reach the halfway mark, and you\u2019re It\u2019s started out SO good!! The book and I had SUCH an amazing connection, you know? And I was REALLY loving it; and I was getting ready to introduce it to the family; and then\u2026 *BOOM!* I got stood up at around the 40% percent line. -:- Seriously! I might as well have been wearing a prom dress. -:- ____________________________________________ After the 40% mark: this book\u2019s storyline deteriorated like\u2026 well, like deterioration. :) You know how\u2026 with some books, you reach the halfway mark, and you\u2019re kind of wishing a HUGE, massive natural disaster would just come in and completely wipe out all of the main characters? IT\u2019S NOT GOOD. And that\u2019s how this book was. And now I\u2019m sad. ...more Edit: This is how I imagine Vincent http://irresistiblereads.blogspot.com... LOVE this book! Die For Me was one of my most anticipated reads of 2011, after hearing good things from a friend (~waves to Olivia~) who read it early in the publishing stage. So as you can imagine I had high expectations and I can happily say they were exceeded. Plum's writing I couldn't get enough of it. Her prose is beautiful and magnetic. While the concept was truly unique and intriguing. The pace was perfect allowing Edit: This is how I imagine Vincent http://irresistiblereads.blogspot.com... LOVE this book! Die For Me was one of my most anticipated reads of 2011, after hearing good things from a friend (~waves to Olivia~) who read it early in the publishing stage. So as you can imagine I had high expectations and I can happily say they were exceeded. Plum's writing I couldn't get enough of it. Her prose is beautiful and magnetic. While the concept was truly unique and intriguing. The pace was perfect allowing the beauty of this story to soak in, like the descriptions of the Paris setting ~sighs~. Paris is one of my favourite cities in the world, so romantic and gorgeous. And Die For Me being set there added some extra charm to this story. Also it was a refreshing change from the usual high school setting. There was talk of art, museums and sitting at Cafe' on the streets of Paris reading a book that all will make you want to trade places with Kate (that and the kissing scenes with Vincent). The characters were fantastic. What I loved most about Kate is she thought about the consequences before making a decision. It was nice change from your typical heroine that rushes into everything. She was smart, strong and genuine. Vincent ~p\u00e2moison~ (that is swoon in French...I hope). Gorgeous, mysterious, sweet yet sexy and has a french accent. What else could a girl want! And the romance ~sighs again~..... If you are like me and are a complete romantic fool you are going to love Kate's and Vincent's relationship. It was delicious yet tender. Lots of playful banter and yummy kissing scenes. I could quote so many moments but I can't since this is an ARC. Oh and if you hate those damn cliffhangers then you are going to love this beautiful ending that gave us a little something extra. I wish that every series could end like this one. Overall, Die For Me is an stunning debut that I want to read all over again. It is a passionate and engaging read that I highly recommend for fans of paranormal romance. ...more After the double disappointment of Starcrossed and Hereafter , I almost didn\u2019t read this book. A story about a young girl who meets a mysterious, darkly handsome stranger and falls desperately in love with him, only to discover that he is in fact a zombie? I was pretty much resigned to reading Twilight: Zombie Edition. Why not? We\u2019ve already romanticized vampires, faeries, fallen angels and shapeshifters; wasn\u2019t it about time the zombies had their turn? Thankfully for my jaded palate, Die for Me After the double disappointment of Starcrossed and Hereafter , I almost didn\u2019t read this book. A story about a young girl who meets a mysterious, darkly handsome stranger and falls desperately in love with him, only to discover that he is in fact a zombie? I was pretty much resigned to reading Twilight: Zombie Edition. Why not? We\u2019ve already romanticized vampires, faeries, fallen angels and shapeshifters; wasn\u2019t it about time the zombies had their turn? Thankfully for my jaded palate, Die for Me was nothing like I expected it to be. Kate Mercier moves to Paris with her sister after the death of her parents. As she is trying to cope with their loss, she runs into a handsome, mysterious boy called Vincent, whom she begins to hang around with. Soon, however, inexplicable things begin to happen around Vincent, and Kate is brought to the realization that Vincent might not be entirely human after all. The revenants aren\u2019t zombies, exactly, although they do like to toss the term around. They are people who have died while sacrificing their life to save someone else\u2019s. While not all such sacrifices result in the reanimation of a dead person, the people who have been chosen to become revenants are destined to spend the rest of their immortal lives saving people on the brink of death, often by sacrificing their own lives. Their death, however, is only temporary, and they rise again in three days to return to their secret lives as saviours. Of course, where there\u2019s good guys, there ought to be bad guys, and the villains in this story are the numa, the \u2018bad\u2019 revenants who never die, but instead spend their lives murdering people and driving them towards suicide. It\u2019s an interesting mythology, and fairly well-constructed. In these days, when everyone\u2019s tripping over themselves to jump onto one paranormal bandwagon or the other, it\u2019s nice to see a book that touches on a hitherto largely unexplored mythology. I wiki-ed revenants, of course, and I find that Plum has twisted the idea of an intelligent, re-animated corpse that returns to fulfil a particular goal, into a believable, almost-human creature. This book is not a stunning, original work that will sweep all readers off their feet. It uses a lot of the regular YA tropes, but it\u2019s a sweet, entertaining story that\u2019s definitely worth a read, and ought to especially please the YA audience. I liked both Kate and Vincent. They were charming, and troubled and importantly, very believable. And their romance gave me goosebumps, which is always a point in favour in my book! Even though Kate feels a connection with Vincent the first time she meets him, she doesn\u2019t fall headlong into his arms. They actually go out on a date (what an original concept!), they spend a lot of time talking to each other and when she finally accepts that there\u2019s something supernatural going on, she freaks out. When Vincent\u2019s friend Jules seemingly dies in a subway accident while trying to save a man, Vincent takes Kate, who witnessed the whole thing, back to his house to cope with the shock. Vincent, of course, knows that Jules will be reanimated in three days, but Kate, being unaware, is so shocked by his seeming callousness towards his friend\u2019s death that she walks out on him and refuses to see him again. And this only one of the many instances where I found Kate to be a refreshing change from the general run of YA heroines. Despite falling hard for Vincent, she wills herself to take it slow. She is still messed up by her parents\u2019 death, and when she finally realizes that being with Vincent may mean having to see him die over and over again, she decides that it would be safer to guard her heart, and breaks up with him. Of course, that makes her mopey and miserable and depressed, but I was willing to forgive her this, because of how they get back together. I was totally expecting her to finally decide that she couldn\u2019t live without him and fall compliantly into his arms, but instead Vincent (not being the falsely noble sort, thank god!) decides to fight for a chance to make their relationship work. Again, unusual and interesting. The dynamics of the relationships in this book were a huge plus point for me. Kate is pretty, and not falsely modest about it. She has a great relationship with her sister, even if they do fight. Her grandparents are very present in the story, even if they are a bit lax, by Mormon standards. Vincent, too, has a strong bond with his \u2018kindred\u2019, the other revenants. Kate slowly and steadily becomes friends with all of them, except one (which I\u2019ll leave you to find out about in the book!). She bonds very well with Charlotte, the only female revenant in the group. What I really liked about this story was that it wasn\u2019t all \u2018Kate and Vincent all the time!\u2019 The entire supporting cast got meaty roles and played their parts very well indeed. Yes, this book has some clich\u00e9s, including true everlasting love, teenage style, and some melodramatic moments, but all in all, I would recommend it as some very good light reading. It needs some editing work, since it has a bad case of First Line Fail, which almost made me give up (\u201cThe first time I had seen the statue in the fountain, I had no idea what Vincent was.\u201d) but I\u2019m glad I went on. I would definitely recommend this book. On a side note, I noticed that several reviews compare this book to Twilight. Undoubtedly, there are parts of Die for Me that closely resemble Twilight. But somehow, it didn't read to me like a Twilight rip-off. It felt more like <---A>Amy Plum</---A> was picking up situations from Twilight and twisting them, as if to say this is how it should be done; take that, S Meyer! Maybe I am reading too much into it, but if I ever meet Amy Plum, that would be a question I would like to ask her! NOTE: This ARC was provided to me by the publishers via Net Galley. No considerations, monetary or otherwise, influenced this review. ...more \u201cI'm a revenant, not a vampire, ch\u00e9rie.\" This was a YA paranormal romance set in Paris. I liked the characters in this although Kate was maybe a little too reserved at times! The way she argued that it was better to protect her heart rather than to fall in love and then lose that love was a little sad. The storyline in this was about Kate moving to Paris to live with her grandparents after her parent\u2019s deaths, and meeting Vincent, who wasn\u2019t quite human, but was instead a paranormal creature ca \u201cI'm a revenant, not a vampire, ch\u00e9rie.\" This was a YA paranormal romance set in Paris. I liked the characters in this although Kate was maybe a little too reserved at times! The way she argued that it was better to protect her heart rather than to fall in love and then lose that love was a little sad. The storyline in this was about Kate moving to Paris to live with her grandparents after her parent\u2019s deaths, and meeting Vincent, who wasn\u2019t quite human, but was instead a paranormal creature called a \u2018revenant\u2019. The romance in this between Kate and Vincent was pretty good, although it did remind me of twilight a bit at times! The ending to this was also good, and it will be interesting to see what happens in the rest of the series. 8 out of 10 ...more So, apparently zombies are sexy now? Okay, so the young-adult genre sexualized vampires, werewolves, and other monsters that should be ripping your throat out, but seriously? Zombies? That seems to be going a bit too far. Now, I\u2019ll just say this because it\u2019s the only thing positive I have to say about this book: Die for Me\u2019s concept is extremely original. Unfortunately, it\u2019s executed horribly. And the sad part is, this could have actually been really good, if it hadn\u2019t taken every single clich\u00e9 i So, apparently zombies are sexy now? Okay, so the young-adult genre sexualized vampires, werewolves, and other monsters that should be ripping your throat out, but seriously? Zombies? That seems to be going a bit too far. Now, I\u2019ll just say this because it\u2019s the only thing positive I have to say about this book: Die for Me\u2019s concept is extremely original. Unfortunately, it\u2019s executed horribly. And the sad part is, this could have actually been really good, if it hadn\u2019t taken every single clich\u00e9 in young adult paranormal romances and just jumbled them all together. I blame Twilight for this book. Let\u2019s see, in Die for Me, there\u2019s: - An insecure teenager, who doesn\u2019t feel she is worthy enough of her love interest, Mr. Perfect. - Mr. Perfect. He\u2019s stunning, yet mysterious, and for some reason has an obsession with the dull Miss Insecure Teenager. - Some obstacle that makes their relationship more complicated, but \u201ctrue love\u201d overcomes the challenge. - Useless secondary characters - Miss Insecure Teenager becomes obsessed with Mr. Perfect. Mr. Perfect stalks Miss Insecure Teenager. - That special electric spark that occurs whenever the two love interests kiss, or Miss Insecure Teenager \u201cturns into a gooey mess\u201d every time they touch, or anything like that. Trust me, there\u2019s a lot more Twilight-esque clich\u00e9s (or really any other crappy YA PR) other than the ones I mentioned above. Which is why I\u2019m agreeing with the big, pretty advertisement on Goodreads stating: Love Twilight? You\u2019ll adore Die for Me! And that\u2019s probably true. If you loved Twilight, you will most likely love Die for Me. I didn\u2019t like Twilight, and I really didn\u2019t like Die for Me. I knew very early on in the book that I wouldn\u2019t like it (when Kate claimed she had extreme agoraphobia, then went to a caf\u00e9 with absolutely no problems whatsoever the next day was when I realized this book and I were not going to get along.) Sadly, those stupid little mistakes dropped here and there were the least of my problems when it came to Die for Me, because I really, really didn\u2019t like the protagonist, or her relationship with her love interest. That was probably one of the biggest problems I had with the book: the relationship between Kate and Vincent. Yes, of course it was insta-love, but that\u2019s beside the fact. It just felt disturbing that Vincent is pretty much a zombie, and that Kate is hooking up with him constantly. I know that these zombies aren\u2019t the zombies like in The Walking Dead , and that they\u2019re sexualized and actually have a purpose (which I liked), it just\u2026 disturbed me, maybe because he\u2019s dead, but, then again, so is Edward. I don\u2019t know, this relationship was just very weird to me. And not only that, it\u2019s creepy as hell. When Kate asks Vincent if he\u2019s been spying on her (when they\u2019ve barely known each other), he says: \u201dTwo cute girls move to the area\u2014what am I supposed to do?\u201d Hmm\u2026 I don\u2019t know\u2026 Walk up to them and actually talk to them, and don\u2019t stalk them? But then \u201ca wave of delight rippled through Kate\u2019s body at his words\u201d and I was done with this book. And, of course, Kate is insecure, and doesn\u2019t think she deserves to be with the \u201ctoo-gorgeous-to-be-true\u201d Vincent, because, though she might be slightly pretty, she is by no means beautiful on his level. And then there\u2019s Vincent, who is described by Kate as \u201ca god straight out of a Renaissance painting, with his brown skin stretched tightly over his muscular torso and his black hair falling back from his face in waves\u201d. Okay, we get it; he\u2019s gorgeous. He\u2019s also extremely creepy, has been spying on Kate before she even knew he existed, he watches her while he sleeps, and he had a picture of her on his bedside table within a week or two of him knowing her. That\u2019s seriously some creepy shit. (view spoiler) [Although he did have a reason for having her picture on his bedside table, he technically didn\u2019t save her. Charlotte did. (hide spoiler) ] Then, after countless pages of absolutely nothing happening but Kate moping around, the book comes to an \u201cexciting\u201d conclusion. After all the build up throughout the whole entire book, I was hoping there would be at least something redeemable in the predictable ending, but it was over within a few pages. Overall, I was extremely disappointed in Die for Me, and didn\u2019t like it at all. The romance and dialogue felt contrived, and there was virtually no character development that had me hoping any character wouldn\u2019t die in the end. I will probably end up reading Die for Me\u2019s sequel, Until I Die , but not for a while. ...more At first, I just picked up this book thinking, \"meh, it's not going to be awesome\" and just use it as one of those books that I read to tide me over until the really exciting ones come out. But, man, was I proved wrong. Brava, Amy Plum, brava. This book was everything I thought it wouldn't be. It had love, and not the kind that makes me want to strangle the characters like many other YA novels (gasp!), action, and left me breathless at points to where I have gone back and re read my favorite parts At first, I just picked up this book thinking, \"meh, it's not going to be awesome\" and just use it as one of those books that I read to tide me over until the really exciting ones come out. But, man, was I proved wrong. Brava, Amy Plum, brava. This book was everything I thought it wouldn't be. It had love, and not the kind that makes me want to strangle the characters like many other YA novels (gasp!), action, and left me breathless at points to where I have gone back and re read my favorite parts which was almost the whole book quite a few times, which I never do. Ever. First off, I love Kate, because, unlike many other novels Fallen, especially. Eugh. yes, Kate and Vincent do have a connection when their eyes first lock, but guess what? You might need to sit down, because this is a shocker. Instead of them immediately going to some dark corner somewhere to make out, she actually tries to go about the crush normally! And doesn't think about him all the time! Because she has more important things to do! I know you guys, this is seriously life-altering for YA novels. She does what any normal ( I can't believe I used normal more than once in describing YA) person would do and makes the cafe a daily habit to see if she can spot him again, and she thinks that she sees him around sometimes, but it isn't all-consuming. She still thinks about the death of her parents. Sure, she isn't super confident, but she does think she's pretty (not as much as her sister), and instead of just gloating about how smart and grown up she is, actually does things to display it like go to a museum, read books, and actually study. Don't faint yet because I actually haven't even gotten to the best part. When she sees Vincent's supposedly best friend \"die\" from getting crumpled by a train and she sees Vincent's uncaring, cold, reaction, she actually runs away, says he's evil, and she hates him! Because, seriously, I can only stand so many books where the girls are like you're a vampire (werewolf, witch, faerie, etc), you're dangerous, but who cares? I for some odd reason am still attracted to you and won't run away even though you could kill me! I just thoroughly enjoyed the fact that she really gave them tests and trials to get through in order to be together, so that their romance actually had a strong base. And Vincent. Ohhhh mannn. Is he one hottie frenchman. I love that he's an actual good guy and doesn't believe that he's the root of all evil. For once, the girl falls in love with a guy who doesn't hate himself. And I love his backstory about Helene. You can really see why he was chosen to be a revenant. Heck, just that couple of pages about it could have been a story in and of itself. Yeah, he does follow Kate and stalk her a little while in volant form, but I can get over that little bit of twilightish similarity. And while I'm on the Twilight thing; to the people who are saying that this is like Twilight are total idiots. Especially the thought that Edward is like Vincent. Besides the stalking thing, (which he actually has a good reason for doing since she almost kind of died and he said that he stopped after she almost died in order to give her privacy) they are not alike. At all. And I will gleefully punch the next person that says it is. It actually has something they might be missing in those closed-off little heads of theirs; depth. As I said, Vincent doesn't go around hating himself and being oh woe is me my life sucks you should stay away from me even though I'm stalking you in your bedroom. He's actually a freaking HERO, not some whining thumb sucking asshat like Edward. And a really badass super hero one at that. Yes he's immortal, but it's not like he can use some sort of magical piss and make her one, too. (I'm very interested to see how she works that with the immortality) and I know he watches her sleep, but she actually knew he was there; hell, she's the one who came to his house, so that's not even relevant. And for those that say that the similarities are there I'll counter with this: Plum takes the few similarities that there are between the two and changes it around so drastically that it actually works, and ends up being how Twilight's should have gone. It's like Plum knew this whole controversy was going to come up and had Vincent say, \"I'm a revenant, not a vampire, ch\u00e9rie.\" So take that you Twilight loving people! Ha ha ha ha he he he he! Okay, that was my rant for the day, and back to Vincent and his total awesomeness we go. I think the whole revenant idea is really fresh. And she addresses even in her novel that they aren't zombies, they just re-animate. And they don't have rotting flesh or anything like that, either, which is good because I don't know how much I would go for that kind of relationship. I mean, before this book, I'd never heard of anything like this before. She really lays it out for us what they are, and what their purpose is, so I'm not left scratching my head, and I have done a lot of head scratching reading other novels (I should get someone to scratch my head for me, how much I have and will continue to do it). After the whole little break for their relationship, I just loved them together (the whole kissing him and sleeping next to him while he was \"dead\" kind of left me shaking my head a little, but that was a small issue) that letter that he wrote her just totally stole my breath, I felt like I was right there with her, reading it with trembling hands. It was just gorgeous. Man, I'm still not done writing about this book? I'm going to get carpal tunnel! Whoever reads this is paying my doctor's bill. No joke. Last of all, besides my ailing hands, I just really loved the prose and writing style that Plum used. Some of it was funny like with Ambrose, Jules, and the other revenants, but most of it was just plain beautiful. In the beginning with the death of Kate's parents, she described it perfectly ( I lost a close family member ) and I felt like I was writing that part myself. I could literally feel and share Kate's pain about all that she had to go through, which just made her all the more relatable to me. Also how she wrote Vincent's and Kate's relationship was just so pure and raw and beautiful, and even a little funny like when Kate eats Vincent's face hahah. (I'll add some quotes in a little bit). So, all in all, this book was totally amazing, and definitely not the blow through book that I thought it was going to be. If you're anything like me, this will be a new favorite series, and trust me I'm looking forward to the next book with all my heart <3 Am I done? Ehhh.....I have one more thing to say. IT'S NOT LIKE TWILIGHT! Okay, now It's finally off of my chest. And again, Brava and congrats and all that good stuff, Plum on an amazing first novel. Good day to you all. ...more We don't need to see the Edward/Bella romance over and over and over again. Seriously. We've already seen it. It was called Twilight. They even made a movie about it. We don't need to see Bella with fallen angels and we don't need to see Bella with zombies. Especially when the zombie is a carbon copy of Edward. Does Vincent have godlike good looks? Check. An aura of danger? Check. Is he a virgin immortal? Check. Has he lived without love for decades? Check. Does he fall in love with our heroine We don't need to see the Edward/Bella romance over and over and over again. Seriously. We've already seen it. It was called Twilight. They even made a movie about it. We don't need to see Bella with fallen angels and we don't need to see Bella with zombies. Especially when the zombie is a carbon copy of Edward. Does Vincent have godlike good looks? Check. An aura of danger? Check. Is he a virgin immortal? Check. Has he lived without love for decades? Check. Does he fall in love with our heroine for no apparent reason? Check. Is he a stalker? Check. Doesn't sleep? Check. Has a \"family\" of other immortals, including a Manic Pixie Dream Girl who becomes the heroine's best friend (Alice/Charlotte), one who resents the heroine and isn't thrilled with their immortal existence (Rosalie/Charles), an older figure who mentors the group(Carlisle/Jean-Baptiste), an irreverent extrovert (Emmett/Jules), and one who trains the others in battle techniques (Jasper/Gaspard)? Check. Is Kate an introvert? Check. Has she moved away from home? Check. Does she fall in love with the hero because of his looks? Check. Does she rhapsodize constantly about how gorgeous he is? Check. Does she sound more like a forty year old woman than a sixteen year old girl? Check. Does she have any interests outside reading? In a wild fit of originality, the author does give Kate another hobby: sitting around in museums staring at paintings until she goes into an art trance. Luckily, since that hobby in no way resembles something an actual teenager would do, Kate's still on track to grow up and be Bella. Kate doesn't understand what Vincent sees in her. Sound familiar? This insecurity is based on the fact that he\u2019s as handsome as a Greek god. Sound familiar? She has a \"special\" ability most humans don't have. Sound familiar? She fits in great with the immortal \"family\", most of whom adore her. Sound familiar? She and Vincent have chaste sleepovers. Sound familiar? She's obsessed with how good-looking he is. Sound familiar? He's all she thinks about. Sound familiar? He slows her down sexually. Sound familiar? Vincent thinks he should leave her alone for her own good, but is an empty shell without her. Sound familiar? The villain gets to Kate through a family member. Sound familiar? There's no action until the end of the book. Sound familiar? He's sooooooo good-looking. Sound familiar? You wouldn't believe how good-looking he is. Sound familiar? That Vincent sure is one good-looking dude. Sound familiar? Vincent is perfect. Sound familiar? Obsessive love. Obsessive love. Obsessive love. Sound familiar? I'm making a plea to all the authors out there. Please do something original. Please. Is your creativity so MIA that you can't create a fresh love story, believably flawed characters, and a plot we haven't seen five thousand times before? Bonus points if you create a villain who's not a cartoon character. I'll say this about Stephenie Meyer: she explored the whole obsessive, stalkerific teen girl/undead guy love story THOROUGHLY. She used hundreds and hundreds of pages to do this trope, so YOU don't have to replicate it. Do your own thing. Give us a love story that surprises and delights. Give us something we haven't seen before. ...more Second time around, I loved this. It was exactly the light, airy pick-me-up that I needed. How things change. Review to come. After the death of their parents, Kate and Georgia move to Paris to be with there grandparents. It's been really hard on Kate and she can't seem to move past her parents absence but Georgia convinces her to get out there, meet people and live, it's what their parents would have wanted. Sitting in a cafe, Kate looks up to see a very gorgeous guy sitting at a table, staring at her. For a moment it seems like Kate knew him, but she also sense something different and mysterious about him, something e After the death of their parents, Kate and Georgia move to Paris to be with there grandparents. It's been really hard on Kate and she can't seem to move past her parents absence but Georgia convinces her to get out there, meet people and live, it's what their parents would have wanted. Sitting in a cafe, Kate looks up to see a very gorgeous guy sitting at a table, staring at her. For a moment it seems like Kate knew him, but she also sense something different and mysterious about him, something even...dangerous. Wow! This was a great book! Amy Plum writes a fantastically smooth story with an excellent fresh concept, adding a great twist to this particular paranormal. I loved how she totally owned this book, taking something that had been done before and turning it into something new and exciting. I really enjoyed all the characters. There is something very alluring about Vincent, he's obviously swoon-worthy but I like the way he holds himself together. Kate is very practical person, maybe even a little pushy, but I like that determination in a character. She takes the everything in stride at first, but eventually her fears win out which were completely understandable. I was thrilled that Vincent found a way around the situation. Together they have a very natural chemistry, nothing overly rushed, just the way I like my love story, with lots of sweet moments to completely melt me. I also liked the other characters as well, Jules, Ambrose and Charlotte but I think Jules is my favorite, he has the big-bear brother thing going on that I find adorable. All of them are well developed and all have fun personalities. Overall, Die For Me is a wonderful start to a new series that I can't wait to continue. It's charming and mysterious and fun and I simply can't wait for the next! An amazing debut! ...more **NOTE: I am updating my reviews. Y'know: older, wiser, more eloquent.** Die For Me seduced me into reading it in a fit of teenage angst. Which is not a bad thing. Everybody needs a good paranormal romance every now and then. Unfortunately Die For Me fell flat of my expectations, particularly in the realms of character development, world-building, and the grossest injustice: setting. I did enjoy some aspects of the book. I appreciate Plum's direction, by straying from the far more trodden paths of **NOTE: I am updating my reviews. Y'know: older, wiser, more eloquent.** Die For Me seduced me into reading it in a fit of teenage angst. Which is not a bad thing. Everybody needs a good paranormal romance every now and then. Unfortunately Die For Me fell flat of my expectations, particularly in the realms of character development, world-building, and the grossest injustice: setting. I did enjoy some aspects of the book. I appreciate Plum's direction, by straying from the far more trodden paths of vampire and werewolf mythology and instead trying her hands on revenants. Revenants were a common European tale in the Middle Ages that the people of the time used to explain ghost sightings where the \"ghosts\" appeared to be corporeal. So kind of like zombies, but less gross in an eat-your-brains type of way. Neat. I also approve of her attempt to set her novel somewhere besides a midwestern American town no one's ever heard of. That gets old so fast, and the world is a huge place: not everyone comes from Small-Town USA. However, my biggest pet peeve ever is that it is excruciatingly obvious that Plum has never spent any significant time in Paris. I would guess maybe a tourist visit. Maybe two. She fails to deliver any sort of comprehensive accurate depiction of the city, instead describing with dream-like quality a hazy, watered down version of what an American imagines France to be like (I am an American too, so I'm not pointing fingers here). There is barely any French in this novel, which is disappointing, and no French culture. \"But the French are predominantly white,\" you say. \"They don't have their own culture.\" Ah ha! That is where you are wrong, person who thinks that. While it may not be so different from American culture as Shanghai, the Parisians do have a very strict set of non-written rules. For example: pretend to not speak English around obnoxious tourists. Charge them too much if they speak loudly and slowly at you. Keep them away from the best local places and steer them to over-priced tourist locations. Do NOT make eye contact on the Metro. Things like this. There were no descriptions of suspicious-looking puddles or a constant smell of urine in this novel. There was no Italian lady standing on your heels because she has no concept of personal space. There was no questionable man on a corner selling wrist watches, and I pray to God he's wearing clothes underneath that trench coat. Paris is rude, dirty, gritty, smelly, and not-entirely-safe. That doesn't make it any less beautiful. Plum failed to capture Paris in any sort of reality besides a dream. As a side note I know this because, as I previously mentioned, while I may be an American I am a Swiss American and lived in Basel for 8 years. Paris is about 3 hours away by train, and it is a city I know well and have been to countless times. The epitome of this lack of knowledge of Paris comes in a scene where Vincent takes Kate for a romantic evening for two. Get this: he rents a rowboat so they can sit on the Seine and watch the Eiffel Tower twinkle in privacy. HA! If you have ever been to Paris that made you laugh. First of all, the view of the Eiffel Tower from the Seine sucks. The banks are elevated as a flooding prevention measure, and the bridges block the view too. Just ask anybody who's been suckered into a boat tour. Secondly, the area is always busy. Between tourists oohing and aahing at the Tower, the never-ending and decidedly angry traffic that is always present, the junkies on the bank of the river, and the water traffic of tourists and barges, there is absolutely no way that they were alone in their own little universe. And lastly, the Seine smells nasty on a good day. After a hot summer day in an open air rowboat? That water is disgusting. No way that would be romantic, they'd pass out from their smell or trying to hold their breath. While I understand that not everybody knows these things, the author should, because the characters would. That is why research is so imperative. Paris is a real city with millions of people and thousands of tourists. You can't just make that up (it's one reason why the Small-Town USA trope is so popular, because nobody cares to fact check you). But Die For Me is an injustice upon all Parisians. Moving on\u2026 The characters are completely 2D. They're paper-thin. I couldn't care less about them. For example, Kate is newly orphaned. She exhibits no grief or mourning behavior. It was pretty obvious the only reason she is orphaned in the first place is so the author doesn't have to deal with pesky questions like \"Wouldn't someone notice or care if she was traipsing around Paris at 4am?\" Kate doesn't care about her dead parents, so why should I? I should clarify: this is not due to some event where Kate had bad or abusive parents, but more due to poor writing. Finally I shall make a list of things that make Die For Me seem like a cheap version of Twilight . Mildly spoilery but I tried to be as vague as possible. \u2022 Instant inexplicable sexual attraction revealing some deep mystical \"connection\" \u2022 The love interest comes off as creepy, yet Kate is unafraid, when a normal person would pack their bags and run \u2022 Kate trusts Vincent based on their \"connection\" and not any evidence on his character. \u2022 Mysterious bad boy has a secret he does not want Kate to find out (lowkey does), and drops ominous hints to help her NOT figure it out. \u2022 Kate discovers the truth by Googling it. \u2022 Kate is the outsider in a tight-knit community of non-humans that largely disapprove of her presence but acquiesce to Vincent's wishes because \"he deserves to not be lonely anymore\" \u2022 There is one girl non-human who becomes Kate's best friend. \u2022 Kate, upon coming to her senses, realizes she's gotten herself into an insane situation and tries to take a break from the whole undead thing. \u2022 Alas, the separation is too much for Vincent and Kate, who are Meant To Be. They have been in love for three weeks, after all. \u2022 The whiny mentality. Both Kate and Vincent have thoughts along the lines of \"I'm not good enough. He/She is perfect. I don't deserve them. Blah blah, wah wah ect.\" \u2022 The ancient and immortal all-powerful villain wants to exact revenge on the super hot immortal loverboy by going after his teenage girlfriend instead. Anything seem familiar? Amy Plum has an awesome opportunity to create her own mythology, her own world in Die For Me but only gives it a half-hearted attempt. We don't get to see the world of the revenants, are there more besides just in France? Are there any outside of Europe? Do the local myths have any relevance to revenants? AKA American revenants be more zombie-like? The world and the rules of being a revenant are left largely untouched, besides some basic explanations. My recommendation: I'd give Die For Me a pass. It might be good for a quick, brainless read, but it didn't even satisfy me as a cheesy romance. Even then it might not be worth your time. And if you are familiar with Paris, I would recommend avoiding entirely. This book will infuriate you. That being said, I will look out for Plum in the future to see if, after gaining some experience, she can put her next intriguing idea to print. ...more Die For Me certainly belonged to my list of most anticipated books of 2011. And although it didn\u2019t disappoint completely, I have to say that it didn\u2019t really wow me either. I\u2019m thinking that the paranormal genre isn\u2019t for me anymore. Maybe I\u2019ve become too nitpicky, or the books have become a bit too melodramatic for my taste, but I have decided to just stick to contemporary and other fantasy for a while now \u2026 I definitely wouldn\u2019t say that this book is right up there with others in its genre in Die For Me certainly belonged to my list of most anticipated books of 2011. And although it didn\u2019t disappoint completely, I have to say that it didn\u2019t really wow me either. I\u2019m thinking that the paranormal genre isn\u2019t for me anymore. Maybe I\u2019ve become too nitpicky, or the books have become a bit too melodramatic for my taste, but I have decided to just stick to contemporary and other fantasy for a while now \u2026 I definitely wouldn\u2019t say that this book is right up there with others in its genre in terms of clich\u00e9s. I wouldn\u2019t say that it is a mere copy of other, more successful novels. It has an intriguing setting that creates a vibrant and at the same time nostalgic atmosphere that I absolutely adored. I had been to Paris only a few weeks before reading it, and it was so much fun to re-discover places I had only just visited myself. For me, it was noticeable that Plum did not chose the city as her setting only because she thought it was cool to have a novel set in Paris, but because she knows the city really well and probably loves it a lot. The paranormal aspect was a fresh one and \u2013 FOR ONCE \u2013 the guy wasn\u2019t this really bad but actually nice and therefore tormented creature. A lot of the secondary characters were promising, but unfortunately not as much in the focus of the story as I would have liked them to be. The relationship between the heroine and her hero moved at a reasonable pace, and there were no declarations of undying love after knowing each other for five minutes. Also, no love triangle (yet?), which is always a plus for me ;). But \u2013 yes, here comes the big but \u2013 nevertheless, there was a lot of stuff I really don\u2019t want to read about anymore. First of all, the lack of parental, or in this case grandparental, presence in the story. I mean, sorry, but do you tell your granddaughter that it is completely fine to sleep at her boyfriend\u2019s house if you actually don\u2019t really know him or any members of his family? Ehm, I vote no. Secondly, why does the heroine have almost no life outside her relationship? She has lost contact with all of her friends at home, she doesn\u2019t have any friends at school, and the only people she hangs out with are either her or his relatives. And then, why does he always have to be stinking rich and live in this really great house? Why does he have to take her out to eat at the most expensive restaurants? (Hey, I\u2019ve been to Paris and I know what a meal costs even at the cheapest restaurants.) Why does he have to give her all these really expensive birthday presents? Why can\u2019t he for once just be a totally normal guy? But mostly, I just missed the right connection with the two main characters. Kate was an okay heroine, but not one I personally could connect with. She reads a lot, what we have in common, but of course she mostly reads sophisticated sounding classics. Vincent was nice, but also a little dull. Being French does not make up for being boring, sorry. I liked their conversations at the beginning, when they bumped into each other in caf\u00e9s and everything was a little awkward, but afterwards, the chemistry was missing for me. Additionally, the mythology was kind of fishy sometimes. This whole connection thing that suddenly worked? Very strange and not really explained in a satisfying manner. So, all in all: In parts enjoyable, in others not at all. I had a few eye-rolling-moments. Nevertheless, I wouldn\u2019t say: Stay away from it no matter what! For fans of paranormal YA, it could certainly be a great read. Some of the major issues I had with it might not bother others at all. But for me, that certain spark that could have made me overlook at least some of its faults was missing. Also, a small note on the cover: Really, why did you have to change it? Only because red dresses are in right now? I mean, the scene on the boat that was featured on the earlier cover? Actually in the book. The scene featured on this cover? Not in the book at all. Publishers, I don't understand you. The dark blue would have stood out at least! ...more I only had to glimpse at the beautiful cover to know I had to read this book. I didn't care what it was about. I mean, look at it! I can say that I was not disappointed by what was inside either. It's fun and romantic, with a gorgeous setting. The setting. It took my breath away. Set in beautiful Paris, France, we not only get a tour of the city, but we learn and experience the culture as well. It was stunning. I have never been, but I could picture myself in the streets alongside these character I only had to glimpse at the beautiful cover to know I had to read this book. I didn't care what it was about. I mean, look at it! I can say that I was not disappointed by what was inside either. It's fun and romantic, with a gorgeous setting. The setting. It took my breath away. Set in beautiful Paris, France, we not only get a tour of the city, but we learn and experience the culture as well. It was stunning. I have never been, but I could picture myself in the streets alongside these characters; visiting exotic cafes, museums, homes. I thought it was amazing and perfectly detailed. Learning about the country's culture was also very interesting. I'm always fascinated by differences with other countries: Sayings, traditions, even fashion. It made me experience Paris while sitting in my own home. This was by far my favorite part of the book. The characters includes Kate and her sister, then the family of Revenants. Kate is a fun protagonist, although she can be a bit dramatic. She doesn't always make the best decisions either, but her heart is in the right place which makes it easy to like her regardless. The Revenants- they're positively charming. I especially loved their fun banter towards one another. They also each have important, defined roles in the story. We've got the fun, quirky Jules; hard-bitten Ambrose and lonely soul Charlotte. These are my favorite of the supporting characters. But really, all of them are as important to the story as the main leads, which adds up to giving us a well-rounded, purposeful cast. Zombies! It is, in literal terms, what Revenants are. They're undead, but they're not rotting nor do they crave flesh. They look like regular humans, except they're immortal with a purpose to save others. Yep, zombie guardian angels! This is definitely an original zombie/paranormal premise. And even though the twists are easily predictable, I found it positively entertaining. The romance, which takes as much center stage as the rest, is not a very strong point however. Both Kate and Vincent are great characters individually, but together they don't radiate as much passion as the author is suggesting. They do have me rooting for them; the romance is definitely there and I won't deny the love story is sweet. But we're intended to feel great ecstasy towards them being together, when it simply falls under cute . All in all, with a lovely setting and wonderful characters, Die For Me gives us a delightfully fun story that will easily attract fans of YA paranormal romance. -- For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more Paris comes vibrantly alive in Die For Me, a book that had me picturing Vincent Valentine (Final Fantasy) as Vincent, the object of Kate's affections. What? A girl can dream, right? Really enjoyed their romance, loved Kate's relationship with her sister, and looooved the details about Paris. An engrossing romance! They say you can never judge a book by its cover however this book is beautiful inside out. I became sucked into Die for Me within the first chapter. It was quite unusual for me as it usually takes close to 100 pages to become glued. What I enjoyed most about this book was not knowing what to expect or being able to predict what would happen next. Simply, it was refreshing. It was fun to read about Paris. I have always dreamed of \"the city of lights\" being oh so romantic. I have seen Paris in mo They say you can never judge a book by its cover however this book is beautiful inside out. I became sucked into Die for Me within the first chapter. It was quite unusual for me as it usually takes close to 100 pages to become glued. What I enjoyed most about this book was not knowing what to expect or being able to predict what would happen next. Simply, it was refreshing. It was fun to read about Paris. I have always dreamed of \"the city of lights\" being oh so romantic. I have seen Paris in movies however I have not traveled there. I felt like Amy Plum nailed it. I truly felt like I was there at every cafe and musuem. I adored the characters in this book. I felt like they were all very well written despite me wanting to know more. I had not heard of Revenants. Although I was a bit confused at first, in the end I completely understood. It truly was a fresh idea. Vincent and Kate sizzled.. I loved their romance. Although I still have trouble with the love at first sight it does happen. It is perhaps a bit cliche however this is fiction and paranormal. Kate is such a doll, my kind of easy going not outragous smart young lady. Vincent, sigh, he is so smoking hot. He stole my heart with his chivalry. He may not be able to offer \"normal\" however he certainly delivered \"extraordinary\". I absolutely am in love with this book. I can not wait for the next in the trilogy. I plan to pre order it as soon as possible. ...more Oh my, this week really has not been a great one for me reading - wise. I was ecstatic to read Die For Me. Sure there was a lot of hype surrounding it, but most importantly I had read many gushing reviews which lead me to believe it would be satisfying at least. I suppose I can start of with admitting that it is a \"little\" different regarding the setting of the book which instantly creates a very enticing and vivid picture of a place that I have been eagerly wanting to go for a long time. Sisters Oh my, this week really has not been a great one for me reading - wise. I was ecstatic to read Die For Me. Sure there was a lot of hype surrounding it, but most importantly I had read many gushing reviews which lead me to believe it would be satisfying at least. I suppose I can start of with admitting that it is a \"little\" different regarding the setting of the book which instantly creates a very enticing and vivid picture of a place that I have been eagerly wanting to go for a long time. Sisters Kate and Georgia have recently lost their parents and have moved to Paris to live with their grandparents. Both sisters deal with this loss in different ways. Kate has completely lost herself and doesn't have the strength to do pretty much anything whereas older sister Georgia has thrown herself back into her partying ways, deciding that distracting herself will take at least some of her pain away. Meanwhile she starts to see a boy called Vincent wherever she goes. His presence is so consistent that at times she is pretty clear in how afraid she is, but also drawn to him because he is of course gorgeous and mysterious and everything else a love interest is these day. For the most part I thought he was a decent enough guy if not a little too persistent and needy/stalkerish. I wasn't too fond of how he continued to stalk her around town and ended up dragging her into the mess that is his life. Once again though what bothers me most is that for Kate to finally come out of her shell and try to heal --Vincent has to come into her life. He has to make her feel better. There was a small observation though. For a long time the sisters are dealing with the loss of their parents the best way they can. It is apparent how much their death has affected them, so I couldn't help but notice how after falling for Vincent Kate stopped thinking about them. Whilst I was pretty pleased at first that the author had obviously chosen to make this something consistent throughout the book I suddenly felt let down that just as quick these feeling diminished or weren't mentioned once she found herself a guy to swoon over. Vincent is a little more snarky than his equivalents such as; Edward and Stefan which makes him a little more interesting but not all that much. Jules is more of the bad boy who likes to tease the heck out of our MC much to her confusion. It\u2019s pretty obvious that he is the key to a potential love triangle which I'm assuming will form sometime in the next book. What Kate soon discovers after meeting Vincent is that he is a Revenant who has been brought back to life for a certain mission. I'm not going to spoil it for you but I did like this whole idea of them coming back because of a certain purpose, I also enjoyed how the author dealt with the possible emotional and psychological affects it could have (i.e. Charles) I quite liked Vincent\u2019s group of friends / family. Jules and Ambrose were my favourites actually. Both had great personalities which really jelled with me and made them stand out from the rest. Basically I expected more. It had everything that has now become a bad habit in the Paranormal Romance genre; the needy love interest, the potential third to a love triangle who is more on the \"bad boy\" side, the friends of the love interest who aren't all to fond of the MC at first. Did I mention how many scenes from the book had twilight written all over? The cheesy lines, the vulnerable girl, and not to mention the predictable plot. *sighs* There were some things about the book that could have made it potentially promising like the concept of the \"Revenants\" but the bad outweighed the good and when I realised I didn't like the MC all that much either since she had the tendency of pushing Vincent away and then sulking for a good hour or so until going right back to him. She did this continuously throughout the book which vexed me to no end. She had this feistiness to her which I liked, but it just seemed like a facade since she never actually followed it through and always ended up going right back to him. It was pretty much the final straw. Overtime I felt like I had to make myself finish the book since I pretty much had it all figured out and because of this reading the book started to feel like a chore. I think I need a break from the Paranormal because every time I pick one up it has pretty much the same plot and similar characters and frankly I'm getting tired of it. I'll review the ones that I have left on my TBR and hope that they turn out better. After I've read those I'll just take a break from the the genre unless one catches my eye and I'm highly convinced that I will enjoy it. Don't be fully deterred though, hopefully you'll enjoy it more than I did. One piece of advice though, try not to be swept away by hype. It often does more bad than good. ...more 3.5 STARS If any of you have followed me for some time, you may have noticed that I've been more or less inactive on GR for about 2 years. Not completely inactive - I still check messages and read reviews, but I've been indefinitely stuck in a reading slump for a long, long time now. During the school year I told myself I was too busy and that I'd read in the summer, and now it's summer and I'm too busy with work and summer homework to enjoy myself. But I really, really miss reading. I miss the pe 3.5 STARS If any of you have followed me for some time, you may have noticed that I've been more or less inactive on GR for about 2 years. Not completely inactive - I still check messages and read reviews, but I've been indefinitely stuck in a reading slump for a long, long time now. During the school year I told myself I was too busy and that I'd read in the summer, and now it's summer and I'm too busy with work and summer homework to enjoy myself. But I really, really miss reading. I miss the people I talk to on GR and I miss the atmosphere of wandering around the library. Every attempt I've made at reading a new book (be it for personal enjoyment or for school) has ended in a DNF, no matter how good the book. So instead, I decided to take a new approach to getting out of my reading slump. I decided to reread a book I really loved. And I really loved Die For Me. However, I read this book back in 2012. 13 year old me could not get enough of cheesey romance, and this book had plenty. I was so in love with the romantic French atmosphere that I was totally blind to any flaws the book may have had. And to my disappointment as I read it the second time, there were a few. Don't get me wrong, I still enjoyed the book the second time around. This book nails what it was meant to be: wish fulfillment. An escapist fantasy. Like I said about Twilight , I'm not gonna give the book shit for being basically a reverse harem of dreamy rich guys. I don't particularly care if its very realistic because, hey, I live a very normal life with school and work and a normal relationship and I don't want to waste my time reading about a life I already live. I want something exciting abd better. Here comes the shit I did have a problem with. 13-year-old me was absolutely fucking crazy for this book, and now I can see why. There were certain parts that sounded like they were written by a 13-year-old. I mean that literally. While reading certain parts (view spoiler) [the first tell-all group confrontation at Jean-Baptiste's house (hide spoiler) ] I couldn't help but cringe, because it reminded me so very much of my first drafts of my poor attempt at writing a paranormal YA novel back in 7th grade. Some scenes felt very forced and awkward. Some read like a cartoon on TV or a drama movie as opposed to something an actual person would say. (view spoiler) [ I saw the form of a man leaning back against the park gate. He was standing in the pouring rain, no umbrella, looking up at my window. I stepped out onto the balcony. A gust of cold air caught me, an dI was immediately drenched by the beating rain, but I was able to see the upturned face, three stories below. It was Vincent. Our eyes met.[...] I dropped my umbrella and threw myself on him. His strong arms wrapped around me, lifting me up off the ground in a desperate embrace. \"Oh, Kate,\" he breathed, nuzzling his head against mine. wow that's original I'm sorry but there's too many things wrong with this to ignore. Vincent chooses the day it's pouring outside to go look like a sad puppy outside her window? He doesn't bring an umbrella? She coincidentally looks out the window right when he's standing there? Or, maybe he was standing there for hours and she just now noticed? No matter how you spin it, that scene was ridiculous, even by my hopeless romantic standards. \"No,\" Lucien said, shaking is head and holding the sword up defensively with his good arm. \"It's not possibble. You're at the catacombs.\" \"Looks like you're wrong there,\" Vincent said through me. \"You never were the brightest zombie in the graveyard.\" This scene killed me. I was trying very, very hard to ignore the obvious theatricality of the climax, but this part was inexcusable. The whole page or so after this quote was also pretty laughable. (hide spoiler) ] Of course there's the common trope where either the heroine or the hero push the other away to \"keep the other safe\" (or in this case, to keep herself safe.) That never fails to piss me off, but at least in this book Kate had some salvagable excuse to do so. I can't necessarily blame her for trying to protect herself from loss, but this, too, seemed forced. It was extremely annoying though. From what I could tell, Kate's orphancy served three main purposes: 1. Give her a reason for being the new girl in town 2. Give her a reason to be depressed and victimized and self-centered 3. Slow the romantic plotline down a few kicks by making her afraid of affection But I won't get too far into that. If Plum wants to give some background for her characters (which, by the way, we are never ever shown Vincent's broody side that his family members talk so much about) then by all means, please go ahead. It's better than letter Kate be a miserable sack of nuts for no reason. And finally, the recurring issue I had with this book from page 94 onwards... \"I should be running away from him as fast as I could, not into his arms. Monster, not human, I reminded myself.\" Kate relentlessly agonizes over the fact that Vincent is a \"monster\" and \"not human\" and \"immortal.\" Which, okay, the last part may be true, but the first two are pretty subjective. She repeatedly refers to the revenants as monsters, dangerous, lethal, that she's putting her life in grave danger by loving Vincent. And maybe if she was referring to their war with the numa, that would be correct. But way before they ever even told her about the numa, she was internally whining about how dangerous and unsafe it was to be around Vincent. This mentality may make sense (though is usually lacking) in stories where the protagonist falls in love with a vampire or a werewolf or a gangster. You know, someone who kills for a living. However, revenants are literally the exact opposite of those things. They save human lives for a living. Their sole existence is to protect others. I think being in love with a revenant would actually be much safer than loving the average human, because having a sword fighting buff body guard that can sometimes see the future doesn't sound so bad to me. So how exactly is being in love with a revenant dangerous, Kate? Cite your sources. So, if I have all these complaints, how did this book still get 3.5 stars? It's weak point were the characters and the writing. But its strengths are the atmosphere and the wish fulfillment. It's 50/50 good and bad, so maybe I should've given is 2.5 stars, but the extra star is just for the enjoyment. though this book is flawed, it pulled me out of my slump. I fnished it in 2 days, which is my record for the past two years since my reading block began. So yes, Die For Me still has my biased heart. (view spoiler) [ I am absolutely at loss for how to explain just how much I adore this book. It all started when I went to the library to pick up Shift . My sister decided to take her sweet old impossibly long time picking something out, so I was left to wander the aisles and stare at book spines. I could've just started reading Shift , but I love torturing myself with suspense. I made my way down the shelf, laughing at covers and dorky melodramatic blurbs, until I finally found one that was actually a little bit interesting. It was this pretty, burgundy and pink spine with Die for Me laced in black design. I was like, Heyyyy, this is actually kind of awesome looking. So look at the cover and OF COURSE there's a picture of a girl in a dress. I will never understand the appeal of girls in dresses on book covers. It's just weird. So that made me kind of irritated, but I read the back anyway. It sounded original, nice. My sister finally picked out some Star Wars book and we checked out and left. I started reading it as soon as I got home, again delaying reading Shift a bit masochistically. Best. Book-pwn. EVER. I was up till four in the morning (not exaggerating---I'm basically nocturnal anymore) desperate to get to the last page, screaming \"No, Kate!\"s and \"OMG NO. WAY\"s when necessary. I didn't stop for a snack break once, which is saying something because since I get bored easily I generally find myself sitting in the kitchen without remembering how I got there. And I could not put it down. I still have not returned Die for Me . I just keep renewing it. It's just that feeling of reassurance you have when you know that you have something on hand in case you need it. I think I have comparatively large excerpts of the books memorized by now. The bad part is, I can't pick a favorite character. See, that's good and bad. The good thing about it is that all of the characters have such redeeming qualities that I can't favor some over others, and I can't constantly gush to my friends endlessly about awesome things that my favorites do. The bad is that now I have a raging conflict going on in my mind, forcing me to pick a person I like the most, just because my brain hates me. Really, really hates me. This story had sword fighting. Yeah, that's right. sword fighting. How awesome is that? Since when to YA romances have battle axes and super ninja costumes and secret societies? NEVER! That's when! Amy Plum deserves a gold star and a cookie for that. Cause everyone loves cookies . Even more with the originality of the story---Vincent has loved before!!!! YAY!!! Every time I read a book, the male protagonist has never laid eyes on a girl before this sudden, sweeping romance. But that's not here now, is it? Vincent was about to get engaged to Helene when she was killed by drunk German soldiers. How brutal is that? So at least Vincent has a reason to be cold and mysterious, not like other men in books who are dark and intriguing just for the heck of it. Vincent has a backstory. Same with Kate: She has a reason to be a loner. Her parents are dead, all of the sudden, no warning .Don't you think that could seriously mess up a sixteen year old's life? According to Kate, she doesn't want to get too close or dependent on anyone again because if something happens to that person, it'll rip her up even more. Hence the no-friends status. She's not by herself just because of poor social status or a fight gone wrong. She has a good reason to not be besties with everyone she meets. Basically, the characters personalities are well defined and make sense. It's not like, Oh! This girls sad because she's just naturally shy! No. That doesn't work. That's the kind of description that an outsider would label unto someone else. But when your reading a book from first person pov, you better know why that person is shy. You, playing the character, deserve a better description than \"I just don't like people.\" No, you need \"I can't stand being in crowded places because I'm claustrophobic and it makes me feel suffocated.\" You need a real reason. And I finally found a book that has it! Thank God! What's really awesome is that this book really is fascinating. People call things fascinating all the time and not really mean it one but. If you really meant it, you'd be looking some things up or finding pictures or at least going to the author's website! This book made me want to move to Paris---and trust me, I before had no desire to go to France, considering I am positively terrible at French. But after I read this, I was on Google Images looking at Pon des Arts and the locks on the gates, trying to see Kate and Vincent on it. I have nver been so wrong when judging a book by it's cover in. my. LIFE. I am dying to read the sequel. Brava, Amy Plum. You have my respect. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The one romance book I love. If you are looking for a great YA book that is not about angels, demons, vampires and faeries then this book is for you. This book was about a girl who fell in love with a Revenant. What are Revenants you say? The Revenants were people who take the place of someone who was about to die. They die in the place of someone else. They were like guardian angels but not really. They become Revenants because they died saving someone else in their past life. Not everyone who does that could become like th If you are looking for a great YA book that is not about angels, demons, vampires and faeries then this book is for you. This book was about a girl who fell in love with a Revenant. What are Revenants you say? The Revenants were people who take the place of someone who was about to die. They die in the place of someone else. They were like guardian angels but not really. They become Revenants because they died saving someone else in their past life. Not everyone who does that could become like them though. How are the Revenants involved in this story? Kate and her sister Georgia lost their parents because of an accident. They both have to move to Paris and live with their grandparents because of what happened. Georgia was coping just fine with the loss of their parents but Kate was not. She still could not accept that her parents were gone and they were never coming back. After exiling herself in her room for so long, Kate decided to go out and explore Paris for a change. She then met Vincent Delacroix, a mysteriously gorgeous young man who caught her attention at a coffee shop. Fate has other plans for them though. Kate and Vincent met again at a museum and after that they spent more time with each other. Kate knew that Vincent was different. She knew that he had a secret and she won\u2019t stop at nothing to figure out what it was. Because of a little incident, Vincent had to tell Kate what he was. He was not human. He was undead but not a zombie. He was neither a vampire nor an angel. He was a Revenant. For my review, I would like to break it down into two: my RANTS and RAVES. RAVES: * The story for me was unique and original. As I mentioned earlier, it was like a breath of fresh air from the usual vampire and angel thing. The whole concept of other people dying in place of someone else and then living again caught me off guard. * This book was written in first person which was a plus for me. * The setting was just perfect for the book. Where? PARIS! * The cover was stunning. I have to say that the cover was one of the things that pushed me to read the book. * Kate was a nice girl who loves books and art. She was like a girl after my own heart so I love her. She was vulnerable to Vincent\u2019s charm but she tries to hide it. In short, she wasn\u2019t the type of girl who would immediately show interest in someone even if she knows that she already like him. * Vincent was no doubt gorgeous. He was old fashioned gentleman. He was honest and I like that about him. He trusts Kate could handle the truth. He kept his word when he said to Kate about telling her more about them. Vincent. Vincent. Vincent. I have added you to my list of book BFs. :) * Jules at first was an ass. I was not sure why he was like that but then that changed. Turns out he was outgoing and friendly and flirty too. Hahaha. * I liked the part that Vincent was able to use Kate as a vessel. I liked it because they worked together to kick the ass of the bad guy. * Kate and Vincent\u2019s relationship was something I definitely envied. They were perfect for each other. They both were willing to make sacrifices for each other. Kate saved Vincent and Vincent was willing to do what was necessary (even if it was hard) so that Kate would not feel the pain she felt when her parents died. * Ms. Plum\u2019s writing style was superb. * Lastly, no freaking cliffhangers which I ABSOLUTELY ADORED! With this book you\u2019ll know there is a sequel but still when you read Die for me you don\u2019t get pissed off when you reach the ending because there were loads of unanswered questions. You got to agree with me, sometimes cliffhangers are not good. The ending was just great. RANTS: * The characters sort of reminded me of certain characters in Twilight. I know, I know. I shouldn\u2019t compare either books because they are different. Let me just share my opinions though. 1. Kate was like Bella because she was vulnerable like her. She was like Bella not aware that she was pretty. Both were insecure and they also fell in love at first sight. I like Kate a whole lot better than Bella. 2. Vincent was like Edward (obviously). They both were old fashioned gentleman because they were old. They don\u2019t age. I would have to give kudos to Vincent though because trusted Kate with the truth. Alright I\u2019ll admit, Vincent was a way better guy than Edward. I mean Edward is my first love and all but Vincent was just everything that Edward was and more. :) 3. Charlotte reminded me of Alice. Yep. She had short hair too only it was blond. She was close to Kate like Alice was close to Bella. 4. Ambrose was like Emmett. He was buff and likes to tease a lot. * I hate Kate\u2019s sister, Georgia. Arrrg. She was very irresponsible and stupid. He has a temper of a bull. * I didn\u2019t like the antagonist. Why? He was not that interesting. And he died in the first book. He was the head of the Zumas (bad revenants) and he died so quickly? * The book ended so quickly. I wanted more Kate and Vincent time. I felt that it was cut short a little. All in all I loved the book despite some obvious similarity to Twilight. I know most of you won\u2019t agree with me on that but I just couldn\u2019t lie that I didn\u2019t remember Twilight as I was reading this. Still, I love this book and I am already impatiently waiting for the second book. I just couldn\u2019t wait to have more VINCENT time. :) I give this book a 4! ...more My review can also be found on my blog Collections . 4.5 stars The setting of Die for Me was something I really loved about the novel. Reading a paranormal that is not set in a typical location like the United States or the United Kingdom is extremely refreshing. Although Paris is a familiar city, it's not a place most people have the chance to actually experience. I'm glad the author gave us a view of Paris that wasn't focused on clich\u00e9 attractions and instead gave us a new glimpse of life in Pari My review can also be found on my blog Collections . 4.5 stars The setting of Die for Me was something I really loved about the novel. Reading a paranormal that is not set in a typical location like the United States or the United Kingdom is extremely refreshing. Although Paris is a familiar city, it's not a place most people have the chance to actually experience. I'm glad the author gave us a view of Paris that wasn't focused on clich\u00e9 attractions and instead gave us a new glimpse of life in Paris. Revenants were another refreshing aspect of Die for Me . Revenants are like immortals, and while immortals aren't anything new, revenants are a unique type. Revenants have a purpose, a destiny. They can choose to ignore it, but it takes a whole lot of self-control. What revenants have to do and what they go through is something I don't believe I have ever come across in the paranormal genre. I cannot wait to learn more about them. Sixteen-year-old Kate Mercier is the main character. She and her older sister, Georgia, move to France from New York, after the death of their parents, to live with their grandparents. Losing her parents causes Kate to withdraw from her family and the people around her. But when she meets the mysterious Vincent Delacroix, she finds herself wanting to open up her heart again, even though Vincent may not be normal at all. I felt both Kate and Vincent had qualities similar to characters in other books. Even the relationship between Kate and Vincent wasn't something we haven't already seen before. However, I thought they were likeable characters. What I really liked the most was that Kate didn't immediately jump into a romantic relationship with Vincent. She thought through the consequences and risks of being a human in a relationship with a revenant, before finally making a decision. Overall I enjoyed their moments together, and as the story went along, I kept wanting more! The other characters (Vincent's fellow revenants) were great as well. They all had something that made them memorable. Jules definitely stood out among them. He was funny and sweet. I would love to get to know more about all of them, though, especially Ambrose and Charlotte. As for the normal humans, Georgia was an interesting character because, although she was more outgoing than her sister and they sometimes had disagreements, she and Kate seemed to get along pretty well. Hope to see more of her in the next book too. With an amazing setting, likeable characters, and an original take on a paranormal being, Die for Me is a refreshing read in the young-adult paranormal genre. I look forward to reading the rest of the trilogy! I listened to these songs about Paris while writing this review: - Paris Is Burning by St. Vincent - Paris (Aeroplane Remix) by Friendly Fires ...more For me, this book was just...meh, really. A little between 2.5 to 3 stars. I liked the supernatural aspect, since it was pretty original. And the setting, Paris, was beautiful. But the problem is, that's really all I liked about it. Because to me, besides the supernatural aspect and setting, this is such a typical YA book that doesn't really stand out from others. Kate was a very Mary Sue heroine, and Vincent was a typical, godly-looking hero, although I give Amy Plum bonus points for not making h For me, this book was just...meh, really. A little between 2.5 to 3 stars. I liked the supernatural aspect, since it was pretty original. And the setting, Paris, was beautiful. But the problem is, that's really all I liked about it. Because to me, besides the supernatural aspect and setting, this is such a typical YA book that doesn't really stand out from others. Kate was a very Mary Sue heroine, and Vincent was a typical, godly-looking hero, although I give Amy Plum bonus points for not making him a jackass. There's insta-love, but it wasn't annoying to the point where I wanted to pull all my hair out. But that doesn't mean I liked the romance, that only means I tolerated it. I don't really have much else to say about this book. o_o It was just okay for me. Nothing amazing or special. It's one of those \"why the hype\" books, for sure. ...more Yep. Just as good as I remembered. Love love love Kate and Vincent and everyone else. EDIT: Apparently, this isn't about zombies. It's actually supposed to be a good book. Once again, this review is based on the blurb. I'd appreciate it if book blurb writers stopped catering to the Twilight Crowd. Thanks. Just when I thought it couldn't happen -- IT DID. Zombies. Good Zombies that look like chiseled Greek gods that can make out with girls. Why Harper Teen? WHY? Amy Plum's Die for Me is an enchanting debut novel with a rich setting, fresh mythology, and charming supporting cast. I was swept away by the story and read into the night because like Kate, I just HAD to know what Vincent is. Die for Me 's revenant is my new favorite paranormal. Plum's mythology is so creative and refreshing after the countless vampire, werewolf, fairy, demon, yadda, yadda stories I've read. Her explanation for what a revenant is and how a person becomes one feels so...noble. Th Amy Plum's Die for Me is an enchanting debut novel with a rich setting, fresh mythology, and charming supporting cast. I was swept away by the story and read into the night because like Kate, I just HAD to know what Vincent is. Die for Me 's revenant is my new favorite paranormal. Plum's mythology is so creative and refreshing after the countless vampire, werewolf, fairy, demon, yadda, yadda stories I've read. Her explanation for what a revenant is and how a person becomes one feels so...noble. These are NOT zombies. The entire concept and the revenants' calling is really quite benevolent and beautiful. Finally, a paranormal with a purpose I can cheer for (unlike, say, drinking blood). And that SETTING. I mean, IT'S PARIS . Plum's vivid descriptions of Paris perfectly match her mythology. There's an old world, exotic feel to the story, and Paris suits this well. Plus that gorgeous setting lends itself to some breathtaking double cheek kisses, sublime hot chocolate, and swoony French lines. Although there is immediate attraction between Kate and the enigmatic Vincent, Plum lets the romance simmer for a few chapters, which I love. You know those books where you add up the days and it turns out the characters have only known each other for a week before they're declaring their undying love? This is not one of them. Kate and Vincent exchange glances at a cafe. And a few weeks pass. They bump into each other at a cafe. And a few more days pass. They even go on a few dates. Yes, the romance has a Twilight feel at times, but it is sweet and captivating. (Vincent just needs to tone down the stalkery/needy tendencies at times.) Unlike so many YA books that have cardboard supporting characters, Die for Me 's secondary characters are charming *cough, Jules* and well developed. Jules, Jules, Jules. I'm not really a fan of the YA love triangle, but if Jules is involved, I'm all for it in Book 2. This supporting cast adds flavor and wit to the story, from the sweet Charlotte to the delightful Ambrose. The action really picks up towards the end of the book, and thank you, thank you for a cliffhanger-free ending that nicely resolves the current book's main conflicts. After the gripping battle scene, the last chapter also lets us indulge in a little delicious escapism. Why don't more books end this way? Die for Me has an original paranormal concept that I love and a vivid setting that I can't wait to visit again in Book 2. (And isn't that a beautiful cover?) ...more Zombie romance? The very idea of this book intrigued me. Amy was one of the authors joining me on the YA Scavenger Hunt and I hurried out to pick up her book shortly after that. I loved getting a tour of Paris and sitting at a cafe reading with the main character. The idea of the revenants and their enemies the numa was great! Love the cover too. Actual Rating: 1.5 stars This review is going to be long, because I have so much to say about this book. So. Very. Much. I read this for a straight two hours and was almost done before I went running, and I just came back and finished the last five pages. So while I was away in the nice mountain air, I had a time to meditate and get over how irritated this book made me. But when I came back, this line greeted me: I didn't know what to say. My eyes filled with tears. Welcome back, irritation! I t Actual Rating: 1.5 stars This review is going to be long, because I have so much to say about this book. So. Very. Much. I read this for a straight two hours and was almost done before I went running, and I just came back and finished the last five pages. So while I was away in the nice mountain air, I had a time to meditate and get over how irritated this book made me. But when I came back, this line greeted me: I didn't know what to say. My eyes filled with tears. Welcome back, irritation! I think this line does a pretty good job of summarizing what this book is about. Was it just me, or does Kate cry a LOT? I'm not kidding. I was sort of expecting her to drown in her own tears before being killed by the sad excuse of a villain in this book. Here are some examples from my randomly flipping through the pages as I write this review: I succeeded in wobbling my way down the back hallway into Vincent's room, where I threw myself face-down on his bed and let myself sob. I felt tears well up in my eyes and pinched myself hard. I couldn't stop the tears this time. (And these three quotes were all placed about one page from each other.) Look, look! Here's another one! It's a doozy: What do you do after reading the most romantic love letter--the only love letter, for that matter--you've ever received? I walked over to the bed and, climbing up onto its high mattress, sat down beside Vincent's body. I cupped his cold face with my warm hand and then, stroking his hair with my fingers, began to cry. Erm. I don't know about you, Kate, but I think I would be more screaming with happiness, hugging the hell out of my boyfriend, hyperventilating, etc. There are so many options. Crying isn't the only emotional response we humans have, you know... As you can see from Kate's waterworks, Plum has not done too good a job with her prose. The dialogue is stilted and awkward, and it doesn't seem to reflect the characters' personalities. For example, Vincent is supposed to be some suave Frenchman who is fluent in English but not that well acquainted with the slang. At one point, however, he says that something is \"no biggie.\" Which I think qualifies as an American thing. I wanted to strangle Kate. I really, really did. She was insufferable. I almost gave up the book because of her. Her mind runs like a broken record. Vincent, my sister, Vincent, ahhh the undead, Vincent . I GET IT, KATE. I GET THAT YOU ARE OBSESSED WITH VINCENT. PLEASE, CAN WE MOVE ON? She can't seem to resist his \"sexy\" smile or that \"sexy\" way he has his eyes \"half-closed.\" I don't know about you guys, but this is what I think of: That is not attractive. At all. Plum uses the word sexy quite liberally, yet I never really thought Vincent was that hot, probably because Kate spends more time gushing about his looks than really showing us who he is. And I fall in love with fictional men quite easily. Granted, he does say some things that she finds extremely romantic (but only made me gag), but that's it. Also, he stalks her (and admits to it!), and she obsesses over him the first time they ever meet. It's like Kate's never seen an attractive person her whole life, the way she keeps imagining Vincent everywhere she goes. She gets jealous all the time, is extremely self-deprecating, and generally a clingy and whiny character. Also, just because you joke about stalking the other person, does not make it okay. I don't see why authors feel the need to justify their characters by pointing out their flaws. It doesn't make them any less visible. And when did the word trolling suddenly become included in fiction? In my opinion, that word should never have existed. Kate and Vincent's relationship creeped me out majorly. It seems almost like necrophilia--there is one point where Kate actually sleeps next to Vincent's cold, dead body and feels comforted (as well as thrilled when she touches his lips and hair). No joke. To summarize this paragraph, I did not like Kate or Vincent or their relationship. I didn't like Georgia, either: despite everything Kate says about Georgia taking care of her, she seems more like a stubborn prostitute than anything else, and it is her behavior that gets everyone in their mess to begin with. Nobody in this book really stood out to me, although I liked Jules, and I sincerely hope Plum wasn't hinting at a love triangle with him. Anyway, I bet if this story had been focused on Charlotte and Ambrose, I would've felt less inclined to stab myself. Maybe. Speaking of Charlotte and Ambrose and Kate's stupidity, here's something else she says that made me want to gouge out my eyeballs: It was the first time I had seen the two of them interact, and even in the midst of this trauma, something clicked in my mind. There was something there between Charlotte and Ambrose[...]He was the unrequited love she had mentioned[...]As soon as the thought crossed my mind, I knew it was true. Very good, Kate. Very, very good. You deserve a cookie for figuring that out while everyone else is panicking over someone dying. Also, this quote is another good example of how unnatural and awkward the writing is. Bear with me. The good stuff is only just beginning. Now, the plot. Um. What? What plot? Kate and Vincent's hurricane of a romance doesn't constitute as plot, and neither does the lame, predictable villain who appears in the last twenty pages. All I could think of while I was reading the last part was one of those cliche mustache twirlers in the old silent movies. I couldn't help seeing the humongous cliche this entire book is. Let's see... -Normal girl meets sexy, mysterious guy. Though there is nothing appealing about normal girl, sexy guy is attracted to her anyway. -Normal girl loves reading books, dallying in art. In short, a quiet intellectual (who somehow can never make intelligent decisions). -Guy gives girl tons of presents and waxes poetic about her all the time. -Normal girl swept up in whirlwind romance that starts with smoldering eyes and an inability to let things go. Have you also realized that some of these remind you of a certain bestselling novel with sparkly creatures? Here are some reminders: 1. Girl and guy are separated. Girl goes to pieces and guy is devastated. (Oh the pain, the PAIIIIN). 2. Girl meets guy's sort-of sister, who likes her immediately. 3. Guy will be one certain age forever (although I did like that he could age if he didn't die). 4. Guy was on the brink of death when an older man saves him and becomes his mentor. 5. Guy goes on rampage and kills lots of baaad people because he believes he can redeem himself. 6. Villain wants to kill girl first in order to make guy feel pain. Had enough? I'd hope so. There are so many similarities, beginning with the fact that Kate seems to lose all of her own personality (and there was not much to begin with) the moment she meets Vincent. I'm going to end this review on a positive note by saying I did enjoy the fact that this was set in Paris instead of some damp, dark, foresty region in North America. Also, the premise is definitely creative and interesting; it just sort of got lost in all of the Kate-Vincent lurve. Am I enough of a sucker to read the next one? We'll see. ...more The first thing I wanted to address was the comparison between this book and Twilight. I don't see it. I think we need to stop comparing all PNR books against Twilight. It's lazy reviewing if I'm being honest. I thought this book was very unique. Amy Plum took the idea of zombies and created her own twist on the mythology. I adored the revenants concept, and to me, this book was a much needed breath of fresh air. YA Paranormal had gotten a little stale for me lately. You can read the rest of my The first thing I wanted to address was the comparison between this book and Twilight. I don't see it. I think we need to stop comparing all PNR books against Twilight. It's lazy reviewing if I'm being honest. I thought this book was very unique. Amy Plum took the idea of zombies and created her own twist on the mythology. I adored the revenants concept, and to me, this book was a much needed breath of fresh air. YA Paranormal had gotten a little stale for me lately. You can read the rest of my review here: http://www.fantasybookaddict.com/2012... ...more https://rowansravingreviews.wordpress...", "Title": "Die for Me"},
