{"Comments": "<+++>The Island at the Center of the World: The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan and the Forgotten Colony That Shaped America</+++>The Island at the Center of the World is a wonderful example of a genre I call \"The Superficial History of...\" This is not to say that the book is not well-researched,<---M> or has a weak</---M>, generalized argument; Shorto obviously read exhaustively on the topic and his argument is a salient one. The Island at the Center of the World is the perfect book to introduce readers to the Dutch impact on New York and the legacy of Dutch influence in America.<---F> The book does have its flaws</---F>. While generally organized The Island at the Center of the World is a wonderful example of a genre I call \"The Superficial History of...\" This is not to say that the book is not well-researched, or has a weak, generalized argument; Shorto obviously read exhaustively on the topic and his argument is a salient one. The Island at the Center of the World is the perfect book to introduce readers to the Dutch impact on New York and the legacy of Dutch influence in America. The book does have its flaws. While generally organized chronologically, at times I felt that Shorto was speaking about the colony on a macro level while referring to a micro-level event. So much of the book's emphasis is on the end-result--Van der Donck v. Stuyvesant, Stuyvesant v. the British--that his discussion of the early colony cannot help but be tinged by what has yet to come. This results in a blurring of the narrative. Shorto's desire to break down the hegemony of the British in colonial American history distorts the clean chronology he tries to follow. Stylistically, I had two complaints. First, while I enjoy Shorto's writing, his voice was too loud in the text. In some ways it was enjoyable to feel like he was standing next to me and telling me this amazing story, but ultimately I think it detracted from his authority and made him sound more like a fanboy than an expert. Secondly, the book was poorly edited. Too many times I found myself rereading the same anecdote and wondering why an editor hadn't caught the repetition. I recommend this book to two kinds of readers: 1) those who like fun, easy-to-read history books that portray vivid characters and don't get bogged down in the niche or the theoretical, and who don't really care that it's just skimming the surface of a larger historical debate, and 2) those history lovers who like a quick read to introduce them to a topic and give them a broad context for further readings. Shorto provides a bibliography that would not be out of place at the back of a historical monograph, and so those interested in looking at primary documents and/or more specific secondary works can easily find sources. ...more The story of how Santa Claus came to America is long on extraneous facts and short on compelling narrative. A lot of people really like this book, and I very much enjoyed Shorto's style of writing, but his protagonist, Adriaen Van der Donck, is as dull as paste for at least two reasons: 1. As Shorto points out, most of the information we have on this man has been lost to history. So, Shorto has to \"imagine\" what Van der Donck was probably doing on many important days. Far too many passages begin The story of how Santa Claus came to America is long on extraneous facts and short on compelling narrative. A lot of people really like this book, and I very much enjoyed Shorto's style of writing, but his protagonist, Adriaen Van der Donck, is as dull as paste for at least two reasons: 1. As Shorto points out, most of the information we have on this man has been lost to history. So, Shorto has to \"imagine\" what Van der Donck was probably doing on many important days. Far too many passages begin with \"one can only imagine what Van der Donck...\" etc. etc. 2. Much of the information we have on Van der Donck is from his own hand, and man, does he love making lists. His list of trees, for example (\"post-oak...butter oak...hickory...water-beech...hedge beech, axhandle wood, two sorts of canoe wood, ash, birch, pine, lathwood, Imberen or wild cedar, linden, alder, willow, thorn, elder\") made me want to tear my hair out. Still, I now realize how key Dutch Manhattan is to U.S. History, thanks to this book. I just wish we had more detailed accounts and less pig-related lawsuits and lists of trees. ...more Dissertation topics, taken to 30 years research are hard to make interesting, but this author did it, for me. Important read for anyone with Dutch ancestry (like mine) and anyone studying American culture, Manhattan culture, or who wants to view capitalism through a different prism. As melting pot, model of tolerance and opportunity, mecca of creativity in early America... and as a lesson for failure to protect those values... a book packed with examples. A bit dry, but like all the toppings you Dissertation topics, taken to 30 years research are hard to make interesting, but this author did it, for me. Important read for anyone with Dutch ancestry (like mine) and anyone studying American culture, Manhattan culture, or who wants to view capitalism through a different prism. As melting pot, model of tolerance and opportunity, mecca of creativity in early America... and as a lesson for failure to protect those values... a book packed with examples. A bit dry, but like all the toppings you can put on a wasa cracker... if you make the effort and keep reaching for the samplers, you'll hopefully find this an educational read, as I did. ...more I was only dimly aware that New York was originally New Amsterdam and that it had been part of the Dutch empire before the British took it over. The Island at the Center of the World is a history of the 40-year period lifespan of the Dutch colony, leading up to the bloodless British victory of 1664. In reality, the Dutch colony of New Netherland -- of which the city of New Amsterdam was the main settlement -- was not so much a colony as a possession of a private company. That company, the Dutch I was only dimly aware that New York was originally New Amsterdam and that it had been part of the Dutch empire before the British took it over. The Island at the Center of the World is a history of the 40-year period lifespan of the Dutch colony, leading up to the bloodless British victory of 1664. In reality, the Dutch colony of New Netherland -- of which the city of New Amsterdam was the main settlement -- was not so much a colony as a possession of a private company. That company, the Dutch West India Company, didn't highly prize its asset, mainly because there was so much more money to be made in the Caribbean where there was sugar to be grown and armies of slaves to be exploited. In contrast, New Netherland was mainly populated by farmers and traders, who were not as profitable as slaves and sugar (or as the spices that were the main source of revenue of the Dutch East India Company, the other main Dutch trading company). New Netherland was huge, extending from the Connecticut River in the middle of present-day Connecticut all the way down to Delaware. To the north and to the south lay British colonies, and the British had their eye on the Dutch possession once it became clear what a wonderful harbor New Amsterdam was and that the Hudson River was critical for access to the interior of the continent. The British and Dutch were imperial and trading rivals, and were the two fastest rising maritime powers of their day in the 1600's. This period was in fact what later centuries would come to recognize as the Netherlands' Golden Age -- Rembrandt, Vermeer, the Amsterdam stock market, the conquest of Indonesia, and all that. It was to be the last time that the Netherlands rivaled Great Britain in power and wealth. Not surprisingly, since the British wanted New Netherland, and the Dutch West India Company didn't value it enough to invest sufficiently in its defense, the colony succumbed almost immediately when the British sent a fleet to seize it in 1664. The patron of the military expedition was the future King James II, then the Duke of York. So New Amsterdam became New York, and that was that -- other than a brief period of 15 months when the Dutch took it back in one of their many wars with the British, only to surrender it yet again during the territory-swapping of the peace treaty negotiations. The British kept New York, and the Dutch kept Surinam (a speck of tropical forest and swamp on the north-east coast of South America, known mainly to stamp collectors). It was a better deal for the British. The main theme of the book is that New Amsterdam -- a village of 1500 people in 1664 -- was a different sort of place because of the religiously-tolerant, ethnically-diverse and republican-minded culture of the town and the colony. Furthermore, he argues that this heritage descended down through the centuries even after the British conquered it and that it continues to influence the city today. It is convenient that NYC today is tolerant, diverse and non-monarchical (despite the presence of Donald Trump). However, if you look at other former Dutch settlements of that era such as Cape Town in South Africa and Djakarta in Indonesia, they don't have that kind of tradition or culture. This tends to undermine the argument. It seems much more likely that it was the British colonial heritage that played a far larger role, since the British presence lasted much longer, the city grew far larger, the system of government was much more deeply rooted, and the colony was embedded in a much larger web of multiple American colonies all sharing a common heritage. So on the whole, I think <---A>Russell Shorto</---A>'s theme is over-sold and most likely largely wrong, but it's a great read just the same. The book is well-researched, the stories are well-told, and if you like New York at all, you'll learn a lot more about the roots of a great city. ...more Pilgrims and turkeys dominate youthful stories of our country\u2019s founding. Adults regularly hear the truism that Puritanism imbues our culture with strict moralism and inflexibility (and probably nod in agreement). Always we hear of the stalwart British, fighting to control the continent, winning perhaps because they were the most upright. And so we have come to regard our history, written as usual by the victors. Russell Shorto begs to differ. The Island at the Center of the World seeks to convin Pilgrims and turkeys dominate youthful stories of our country\u2019s founding. Adults regularly hear the truism that Puritanism imbues our culture with strict moralism and inflexibility (and probably nod in agreement). Always we hear of the stalwart British, fighting to control the continent, winning perhaps because they were the most upright. And so we have come to regard our history, written as usual by the victors. Russell Shorto begs to differ. The Island at the Center of the World seeks to convince us of the importance of the Dutch colony which controlled not just Manhattan, but also parts of four additional states. It was founded not on religious principles but as a trading post for the West India Company. Therein lay both its strength and its weakness. As a trading center, the Company allowed many kinds of people to live in its borders, establishing the first truly diverse community on our shores (a trait Shorto delights in, pointing out repeatedly that it was the ancestor for our most diverse modern city). The West India Company managed its colony as a fiefdom, however, and in the crucial moment when its inhabitants would need to stand up to the British, they had no sense of loyalty and refused to fight. Hence history generally judged the Dutch colony a failure. Shorto believes the lively, entrepreneurial, diverse community of New Amsterdam, which became New York, left its mark as surely as the Puritans did. He regards the Dutch settlement as a successful one, forgotten in part because of language and Anglocentricism. The source for Shorto\u2019s popular history is the work of a man named Charles Gehring, a scholar of the 17th-century Dutch language, who had at the time of this book spent thirty years translating records of New Amsterdam. [Now, ten years later, he\u2019s been translating for forty years, and there\u2019s more to come.] Shorto describes with some glee the working environment of Gehring, who tends to refer to the characters in the Dutch records as if they are close friends. One can only guess that these records will be the source of close study by graduate students and scholars for many years to come, particularly when the translations are complete. In the meantime, this book is a delightful read, full of details of ordinary life as well as giving a full back story of life in The Netherlands, an advanced European culture whose ideas were often carried across the ocean. I appreciated that Shorto identified New Amsterdam locations in terms of what town or neighborhood is there now. I had a great time picturing forts and farms in Manhattan! Shorto himself is too present in the book, looking over our shoulders a little too eagerly to press home his ideas. A second criticism is that he too easily makes a leap from 17th-century New Amsterdam to present-day New York, finding direct influences. It was a thesis he seemed hard pressed to prove, given the many intervening years and a war for independence. Nevertheless, I enjoyed immersing myself in a part of colonial history I never knew a thing about. Peter Stuyvesant had a wooden leg: now that\u2019s not history. I can\u2019t abandon this review without mentioning a central character. We generally know about Peter Stuyvesant and Peter Minuit, who have made it into our history books. Shorto wants us to know about Adriaen van der Donck, who is practically forgotten (except that the young gentleman, the \u201cJonk Herr,\u201d gave his name to Yonkers). Van der Donck is something of a hero to Shorto, because he adventured far on his own, and he tried to persuade the Dutch government to remove the colony from the control of the West India Company. Initially van der Donck succeeded. His personality and persuasiveness led the government to adopt his proposals for change and to put him in charge, not Stuyvesant. They gave him a commission to be president of the colony. He prepared to return to his beloved New Amsterdam home. Oliver Cromwell was the unexpected stumbling block. He engaged the Dutch in warfare, and the government reversed its decision and allowed the West India Company to continue to represent them in the colony. After all, the Company had originally been conceived as a military arm to control the seas and the colonial trade. New Netherlands was just one part of the vast colonial empire, and van der Donck was up against the powers that controlled and benefitted from the status quo. Van der Donck, held in The Netherlands, wrote wistfully of his new world home. He believed that New Amsterdam would grow and prosper, because there would be immigrants from many lands, who would be welcomed. He had a vision of a Dutch land, prospering and diverse, sharing the territory with the Indians. It was a prescient vision. He was right that Manhattan was in the right place, that the land was valuable, that the port was first rate. Although he eventually returned to these shores, he vanished into history. ...more I picked up The Island at the Center of the World because it directly targets two of my own personal obsessions: New York history and Dutch language. Author Russell Shorto builds it upon thirty years of translation work by a man called Charles Gehring, a specialist in 17th century Dutch who resurrected the complete records of New Amsterdam, the Dutch settlement that is now New York City and environs. Shorto's thesis is that the Dutch colony was more successful and more influential than previousl I picked up The Island at the Center of the World because it directly targets two of my own personal obsessions: New York history and Dutch language. Author Russell Shorto builds it upon thirty years of translation work by a man called Charles Gehring, a specialist in 17th century Dutch who resurrected the complete records of New Amsterdam, the Dutch settlement that is now New York City and environs. Shorto's thesis is that the Dutch colony was more successful and more influential than previously believed, unjustly forgotten because of the language barrier and because of Anglocentrist historians who both downplayed its significance and judged it a failure based on the criteria of the more religious New England colonies. There is a lot here to satisfy the curious New Yorker--Broadway's origin as an Indian path, stories about the first Brooklynites--but what makes this worth reading is its portrayal of Adriaen van der Donck, who opposed the autocratic rule of Peter Stuyvesant and insisted that the inhabitants of New Amsterdam deserved the rights of Dutch citizens, as opposed to employees of the Dutch East India Company. Trained as a lawyer at Leyden University (possibly even under the tutelage of Spinoza and Descartes), he even sailed back to the Netherlands at one point to make his case before the States General. Shorto shows that the egalitarianism of the Dutch Golden Age was brought to America by van der Donck and how echoes of it even made their way, more than a hundred years later, into our founding documents. Despite all this, however, van der Donck was forgotten after his death in an Indian raid. The only sign of him left in New York is the town of Yonkers (New Amsterdammers called him \"Jonker,\" i.e. landowner). Most refreshing about this book is the vision it presents of a freewheeling, open society in early America--an attractive alternative for anyone who spent their school years learning about the prudent and stuffy Pilgrims. Shorto fittingly writes in a relatively breezy and unacademic style, a la Barbara Tuchman. Sometimes he takes the informality too far. On the whole, though, I found this a very worthwhile read. ...more Sometimes we read for total pleasure and escape. Sometimes we read because we want to learn something. Sometimes we read because we\u2019ve promised a dear friend we will support her book discussion at the local library even though we\u2019d never select the book for ourselves. \u201cIsland at the Center of the World\u201d falls into the last category, but as I told my dear friend today when I arrived for the discussion, I\u2019m very glad I persevered and read this. If goodreads.com weren\u2019t forcing me into full stars, I\u2019 Sometimes we read for total pleasure and escape. Sometimes we read because we want to learn something. Sometimes we read because we\u2019ve promised a dear friend we will support her book discussion at the local library even though we\u2019d never select the book for ourselves. \u201cIsland at the Center of the World\u201d falls into the last category, but as I told my dear friend today when I arrived for the discussion, I\u2019m very glad I persevered and read this. If goodreads.com weren\u2019t forcing me into full stars, I\u2019d give it 3.5 stars. Who should read this? Early American history buffs. Native New Yorkers. Anyone living in Manhattan or Albany or anywhere near the Husdson River now. Anyone of Dutch heritage. Shotro\u2019s book, published in 2004, is the first to use translated original Dutch documents from the 1600s to fill in what really happened as New Amsterdam became New York. Shorto\u2019s thesis is Manhattan is where the \u201creal America\u201d began. It\u2019s the original multicultural community foreshadowing our country today. Shorto reminds readers, \u201c\u2026history is written by the winners\u201d (319) and that is why we all learned the skewed history we did of the Middle Colonies. I wonder if schoolchildren today in New York State are learning anything different than they did more than 30 years ago. I wonder if the graduates of prestigious Stuyvesant High School in New York City have a romanticized view of their school\u2019s namesake. The major players are Henry Hudson, Peter Stuyvesant (a true Shakespearean tragic hero) and Adriaen van der Donck, one historic figure I\u2019d never known about. There\u2019s much, much more. Here\u2019s a bit of trivia I learned from reading this book: The Dutch first had the concept of a District (or Prosecuting) Attorney to represent the rights of the crime victim. The term \u201cboss\u201d came from the Dutch, as did \u201ccookies,\u201d \u201ccole slaw\u201d and Santa Claus (Sinterklaas). Many of the ideas incorporated into our Bill of Rights originated with the Dutch since the New England colonials weren\u2019t all that into individual rights or respecting freedoms. Reviewers love this book. I\u2019ve copied excerpts from the author\u2019s website below. As I said, it wouldn\u2019t be my pick for a \u201cfun read,\u201d but I\u2019m glad I stuck with it. Thanks, Claudia, for challenging me again with your winter book group picks. http://www.russellshorto.com/book/the... The Island at the Center of the World was a bestseller in the U.S. It was also published in Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Brazil, and has received international acclaim. The Wall Street Journal called it \u201ca masterpiece of storytelling and first-rate intellectual history.\u201d The Times of London said it was \u201ca landmark book.\u201d The New York Times described it as \u201cmasterly\u201d and \u201ca book that will permanently alter the way we regard our collective past.\u201d Holland\u2019s Algemeen Dagblad called it \u201ca masterwork,\u201d and Britain\u2019s Guardian described it as \u201cnarratively irresistible, intellectually provocative, historically invaluable.\u201d It won the New York City Book Award, the Washington Irving Prize for contribution to New York history, and several other awards. It was a New York Times Notable Book for 2004 and was chosen by the New York Public Library as one of its 25 outstanding books for the year. The book has helped spark a reappraisal of the Dutch colony by historians. It is taught in college and high school history courses. It has also led to a new awareness among the Dutch of their role in shaping U.S. history. It was the inspiration of a four-part documentary on Dutch public television (featuring me\u2013here\u2019s a You Tube clip) called \u201cThe New York Connection.\u201d ...more Russell Shorto has written a dense, but mostly readable and utterly fascinating history of Manhattan and Dutch history in the 17th century based heavily on colonial New Netherlands documents which remained untranslated (and mostly overlooked by historians) until recent decades, in a translation project that is ongoing. Thanks to Shorto for an illuminating portrait of Adriaen van der Donck (among others) and van der Donck's era in both Europe and America. His writing sheds light on the special c Russell Shorto has written a dense, but mostly readable and utterly fascinating history of Manhattan and Dutch history in the 17th century based heavily on colonial New Netherlands documents which remained untranslated (and mostly overlooked by historians) until recent decades, in a translation project that is ongoing. Thanks to Shorto for an illuminating portrait of Adriaen van der Donck (among others) and van der Donck's era in both Europe and America. His writing sheds light on the special contribution these early seeds of history made to the particulars of both the future United States and New York City itself. Is this a perfect book in every way? Well, no, I did at times feel Shorto kept a little too strictly to his thesis --I would have liked more mention of colonial Rhode Island, for example. Still, don't allow whatever mild criticisms might be flung at ISLAND AT THE CENTER OF THE WORLD to deter you from a valuable reading experience. And, praise be for the maps and the photos! ...more While I do appreciate the amount of research that went into this book, the limitations of working with damaged & incomplete records, the authors style was so over-the-top I just barely made it to the end. For every interesting detail there was a fanciful imagining about what else might have happened. It got so bad when I heard (I listened to the book on disc) \"let us imagine\" or \"we can suppose\" or some variation I would actually wince. It could have been 1/2 the length & a better book. A history of Dutch New York (New Amsterdam) ... that is fascinating as well as beautifully written ... with information and humor ... A great book about a little-known aspect of history ... I cannot recommend this book highly enough. You have no idea how hard it is for me to spell this title \u201ccorrectly\u201d (with the American spelling of centre). I have the forbearance of a saint, I swear. The Island at the Cent er of the World is about the Dutch colony on Manhattan Island\u2014New Amsterdam and its ancillary towns that would eventually be surrendered to the English and metamorphose into New York and New York state. Russell Shorto wants to bring to light the extensive new work being done on records from that period. For the past thirty You have no idea how hard it is for me to spell this title \u201ccorrectly\u201d (with the American spelling of centre). I have the forbearance of a saint, I swear. The Island at the Cent er of the World is about the Dutch colony on Manhattan Island\u2014New Amsterdam and its ancillary towns that would eventually be surrendered to the English and metamorphose into New York and New York state. Russell Shorto wants to bring to light the extensive new work being done on records from that period. For the past thirty years, a specialist in that period has been laboriously translating hitherto untranslated documents that help shed light on the character of the colony. This is revising historians\u2019 opinions of New Amsterdam. Shorto essentially takes the position that history is written by the victors, and the victors being English in this case meant they had no shortage of bad things to say about the Dutch. So they downplayed the Dutch origins of Manhattan and New York, choosing instead to present a narrative of the United States springing forth from thirteen English colonies. For Shorto, this is all about tracing the development of the colony and highlighting how the Netherlands\u2019 colonial efforts differed so much from other European powers at the time. Whereas England, France, and Spain were all focused on claiming new land through settlement, the Dutch tended to stick with military outposts that enforced their monopoly on critical trade goods. I had never thought of it this way before, but it\u2019s an important difference, and it makes New Amsterdam stand out as one of the few examples of true colonization/settlement from the Dutch. (It also helps explain why, while the Netherlands had outposts flung across the world, the Dutch language itself has not spread far and wide like English did.) So while this is a history of Manhattan, it\u2019s also a history of seventeenth-century European power struggles, but told from a very different perspective than you might otherwise experience. I liked that aspect. I haven\u2019t read much in the way of colonial histories, so it\u2019s difficult for me to compare this book to others like it. I appreciate how Shorto explores the nuanced relationship between Indigenous peoples in the area and the Dutch settlers. He is careful to point out the stereotypes in our present-day culture, and then he also goes on to explain how the relationship was different from the one that would develop in the late eighteenth, early nineteenth centuries. He explains how the Indigenous peoples seemed to view the land purchases made by the Europeans (or at least, he tries to given the evidence we have available to us), and how from a certain perspective, the Indigenous peoples could be seen as having the upper hand in those deals (i.e., they \u201csold\u201d the land in return for a presumptive alliance between their tribe and the Dutch, notwithstanding the Dutch not necessarily understanding or caring enough to uphold this end of the deal). I originally wanted to read this book\u2014I think; it\u2019s been a while since it made it to my to-read list\u2014because I was curious about Manhattan the island. It\u2019s just so crazy to think of New York, today a bustling metropolis carpeted by steel girders and people, as wilderness. Yet it was, four hundred years ago. And we changed that . It wasn\u2019t a natural process that transformed forests into parking lots and shopping malls. This is a very potent reminder of the way human beings are reshaping our planet. On a related note, The Island at the Center of the World is aptly-titled, because Shorto reminds us of how geography plays a significant role in shaping our society and history. I don\u2019t subscribe overly much to hardcore, Guns, Germs, and Steel \u2013style geographic determinism , but geography certainly has influence. Even discarding the fixation with finding a passage to China through the Americas, the harbour and river system around Manhattan was one of the premiere entrances into the continent. For an economy that relied so extensively on shipping, this was all-important. It\u2019s no wonder, then, that even when it was under Dutch control, New Amsterdam was a hub for shipping English goods from Virginia and New England across the Atlantic. Centre of the world indeed! Shorto looks at the colony\u2019s history through a biographical framework, focusing on some of the important movers and shakers of the time. There are some great aspects to this approach. He emphasizes the way that the wild, untamed American continent seemed to affect people who settled there. Even though Peter Stuyvesant and Adriaen Van der Donck were ultimately on the opposite side of a lot of issues, both petitioned to be allowed to return to the colony and there live out their days. Shorto adequately portrays the romanticism of the period. Actually, he might portray it overly much. I read the Large Print edition of this book purely because it was the only copy available from my library, and libraries are rad. I thought the larger type would be a boon\u2014it\u2019ll make reading this non-fiction book a breeze! Counter-intuitively, it took me longer to work my way through the book. The font is larger, yes, but the typeface is so plain it\u2019s almost ugly; the margins are skinnier \u2026 the design of the book, in general, is just minimalist and underwhelming. You don\u2019t realize how important these elements are until they are taken away. So I plodded through it, and I started losing patience. Shorto goes into so much detail, examines every little nuance and development. In particular, he feels it\u2019s necessary to explore the background of every bit player. To some extent this is useful and interesting. Taken altogether, however, and the effect becomes amplified and loses some of its power. I just feel like there might have been a way to tell this story in a slightly more concise, punchier fashion. I guess that\u2019s what the movie treatment is for, right? Do you like the confluence of geography and history? Do you want to learn more about that Dutch colony that has not-so-secretly influenced American culture, even if American myth does not want to admit it? If so, The Island at the Center of the World is your cup of tea. For all its flaws stylistically, it\u2019s a solid, slightly academic read about a subject that perhaps needs more publicity. It\u2019s not necessarily going to awaken those interests in you anew, but it will speak to them and provide you with more background on an important part of North American history. ...more Complete review is here http://gradstudentadd.blogspot.co.il/... Russell Shorto's best-seller saves the Dutch culture of America from being let go. Besides the obvious adage that it is the victors who write history, there are other reasons for the English stranglehold on American history. Shorto humorously explains that American historians found an easier story in Puritan New England than the more rough-and-tumble reality of Dutch Manhattan. Accounts like that of a woman who, while her husband doze Complete review is here http://gradstudentadd.blogspot.co.il/... Russell Shorto's best-seller saves the Dutch culture of America from being let go. Besides the obvious adage that it is the victors who write history, there are other reasons for the English stranglehold on American history. Shorto humorously explains that American historians found an easier story in Puritan New England than the more rough-and-tumble reality of Dutch Manhattan. Accounts like that of a woman who, while her husband dozed on a nearby chair, \u2018dishonourably manipulated the male member\u2019 of a certain Irishman while two other men looked on. Excessive rigidity (of the moral kind) was not the sin of New Amsterdam\u2019s residents.\u2019 (p. 85) {Shorto's wit is another great feature of the book. I think the following is the best sentence i have ever come across in a book about history: The Reverend Jonas Michaelius might well have won a contest for the moodiest, bitchiest resident of New Amsterdam (p. 64) Phenomenal!} The historical revisionism of American history is, bluntly put, a conscious decision of total haters with English ancestry. Think i'm being harsh? Shorto brings evidence that nineteenth-century historians considered the Dutch chapter of American history inconsequential at best. Descriptions of the petty cheeseparing of the Batavian provinces, with their windmills and barren soil, fit only for fuel are among the kinder references made to the Dutch in nineteenth century American historical surveys. Shorto instead brings to life Adriaen van der Donck, a young lawyer sent to New Netherland who pushed for the Republican-style government and freedom that became so central to America's cultural heritage. Shorto draws you into his tale by beginning with the work of Charles Gehring, who has worked for over 30 years (and is still going!) translating over 12,000 folios of Dutch colonial records. This book is sweet. Shorto does not divorce New Netherland history from 17th century Dutch history (if you loved Simon Schama's page-turner on the topic you will totes dig this), enriching both in the process. There's also a lot of cool facts to learn. I had no idea that the first kosher butcher on Manhattan Island was a Polish Jew named Asser Levy who stood up to Stuvesant's anti-Semitic wrangling. Want to know who Downing Street was named after? Read the book. Despite my enthusiasm for this book, there is a huge problem in its premise. Essentially, Shorto makes the argument that the Dutch colony had its roots in thinkers like Grotius and Spinoza; liberals who advocated civil over religious law, in contrast to the witch burning crazy English colonies. To read Grotius as freeing natural law from theology is a dangerous misreading of Grotius at best, and a gross misrepresentation at worst. What follows is the philosophy that the only tolerant society is one that divorces itself from its religious heritage, which diminishes the monumental achievement of the 'tolerant' society of 17th century New Netherland, which was, indeed rooted in theology. That's where Shorto seems to drop the ball. He has us imagining van der Donck studying law at Leiden with Grotius, (which is awesome, granted), but if anything stands out about 17th century Leiden (besides the fact that it was full of Englishman wearing buckled hats and pimp-shoes), it's that the hottest topic of study gripping the place was Hebraism. That is to say, people like Grotius, and later, Selden in England, were defining international and natural law according to rabbinic sources such as the Talmud and Maimonides. A liberal environment, certainly. A Godless one, definitely not. ...more When a very intelligent, perceptive gentleman of good local family recommended this book, I immediately put in an order for it. There's nothing that appeals to me more than local history, and this is local history on only a slightly broader scale. The Dutch settlement of the colony of New Amsterdam is a little known facet of American history. Recent discovery and translation of the many documents produced by that colony has shed a new light on this early settlement, revealing the vibrant beginnin When a very intelligent, perceptive gentleman of good local family recommended this book, I immediately put in an order for it. There's nothing that appeals to me more than local history, and this is local history on only a slightly broader scale. The Dutch settlement of the colony of New Amsterdam is a little known facet of American history. Recent discovery and translation of the many documents produced by that colony has shed a new light on this early settlement, revealing the vibrant beginnings of a city known for its vigor and unique character. The story soon comes down to the conflict between two strong-willed and powerful men. Adriaen van der Donck, a young lawyer and historian with a vision for the future of New Amsterdam and Peter Stuyvesant, governor and representative of the company that owned the colony clash over the rights of the colonists and the government of the new world. As the story of their political manipulations and struggles continues, the reader soon realizes that New Amsterdam's rowdy active seaport was the true mother of New York. Many aspects of Dutch culture and attitude continued after the English took over the colony and were assimilated into the New World. The notions of freedom for the individual, an entirely new concept to European minds, originated, so Shorto claims with justification, in the fertile grounds of Dutch thought and education. In a Europe struggling with war and ignorance, the Dutch institutes of learning offered refuge for some of the finest minds of the era. Adriaen van der Donck and his generation were strongly influenced by Dutch thought and culture, and through them a new idea ranged through North America. Shorto's book is fast paced and entertaining, featuring a broad ranging look at the well-known, not so well-known and obscure inhabitants of the island that became Manhattan. Reading this book gave me a new perception of colonial history and I can recommend it to anyone interested in the smaller and bigger pictures of the growth of America. ...more This book is about Manhattan Island under the Dutch in the 1600's. I was interested because we have ancestors who were there, and also because I like to discover history that has been left behind in the standardized anglocentric history that we learn in school. (I'm still a bit upset that we didn't learn about the Spanish in Santa Fe before the Pilgrims got to Plymouth--but then they didn't speak English.) The Dutch colonies were quite interesting and they planted in America some very different This book is about Manhattan Island under the Dutch in the 1600's. I was interested because we have ancestors who were there, and also because I like to discover history that has been left behind in the standardized anglocentric history that we learn in school. (I'm still a bit upset that we didn't learn about the Spanish in Santa Fe before the Pilgrims got to Plymouth--but then they didn't speak English.) The Dutch colonies were quite interesting and they planted in America some very different ideas than the Puritans--an attitude of inclusion and tolerance that was common in Holland, but not in Boston! Based on newly translated documents that have been in the New York State historical library and others from Europe this book reveals a lively, interesting group of settlements in what is now New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware etc. and the genesis of some ideas and ideals that later influenced our Founding Fathers. Turns out that even then Manhattan with it's perfect harbor and location was a good place for ships to stop by on their way to and from Europe, the Caribbean, Africa, the northern and southern settlements. But, then as now it was greatly influenced by what was going on in the larger world--who was at war with whom etc. The English ended up with it but Dutch names such as Brooklyn, Yonkers, Broadway, Santa Claus, cookies, coleslaw etc persist---the wall they built to keep out the English was the origin of Wall Street. By the way, the Dutch seemed to get along better with the Natives than the English did. Our Conover ancestors are descended from Van Kowenhovens who were among those early settlers--they were quiet farmers and so didn't figure much in the story, but I did find some references to them. The main characters tended to be the colorful ones--either the governors, or pirates, women of ill repute, businessmen--and one very talented lawyer. Sometimes I was glad not to hear my ancestors names among those! ...more I really enjoyed this book. It covers the time the Dutch owned/ran/lived in Manhattan. How they got there and what influence they had on America is full of fascinating details uncovered only because some documents managed to survive around 350 years to reveal their secrets slowly, but surely. The information is apparently changing the way historians look at the birth of America. They are moving from the pure British tale to an awareness that the Dutch can be credited with some of the actual laws I really enjoyed this book. It covers the time the Dutch owned/ran/lived in Manhattan. How they got there and what influence they had on America is full of fascinating details uncovered only because some documents managed to survive around 350 years to reveal their secrets slowly, but surely. The information is apparently changing the way historians look at the birth of America. They are moving from the pure British tale to an awareness that the Dutch can be credited with some of the actual laws in New York - laws that respect the idea of representative government. We often think of the past as slow, but some of the people in this story seemed to be dashing back and forth across the Atlantic several times. Amsterdam at this time was apparently quite tolerant and open, and that concept was brought to the new world, making New Netherlands like no other colony in America. The storyline is spiced up with anecdotes about the origin of coleslaw, cookies, and other things we think are purely American. The author seems to be quite objective and states when there is doubt about some detail and how research is still ongoing. I don't know that much detail myself about this time in history, so I cannot know if there are any errors. However, the language was quite objective with phrases like \"apparently\" or \"it seems\" and other indications that something might lack strength of evidence. This was written only a few years after 9/11, and for a short time, I thought it might get a bit schmalzy about that and let that cloud the story. That was not the case. Yes, the tolerance in those early days was pointed out, but that was also something amazing at that time and it helped to shape the colony. Therefore, it was perfectly reasonable to go into detail about it. If you like history, I think you will enjoy this one. ...more Shorto has given us a description of the Dutch history of Manhattan, Yonkers (Younkers), and the Bronx (de Brounx--?sp.) from lost/forgotten archives in Dutch. I read this book while I was doing a 3 year research project with the poorest schools in the Bronx and after my longtime collaboration with researchers at Leiden University in the Netherlands. I also like having a feeling of the land under modern-day NYC. As I had learned more thanks to my Dutch friends of the Golden Age in the lowcountry Shorto has given us a description of the Dutch history of Manhattan, Yonkers (Younkers), and the Bronx (de Brounx--?sp.) from lost/forgotten archives in Dutch. I read this book while I was doing a 3 year research project with the poorest schools in the Bronx and after my longtime collaboration with researchers at Leiden University in the Netherlands. I also like having a feeling of the land under modern-day NYC. As I had learned more thanks to my Dutch friends of the Golden Age in the lowcountry and rethinking the Dutch empire and trading companies, I had wondered why the Dutch \"sold\" Manhattan and why its influence was so dismissed in the US histories in school texts. Shorto writes interestingly and I was able to breeze through this book with lasting memories. Personal notes: I \"closed\" the Empire Hotel at Lincoln Center and also the Mayflower on Central Park West. Then I began to stay at the Algonquin, renewing my memories of the Algonquin Roundtable. In 2003, I married an old but lost college friend who had become a college professor of Theatre and Theatre Design. He had worked for Peter Albrecht company designing and installing large moving stages and had done installations at Lincoln Center at two different times, staying at the \"Vampire\" as he called the \"Empire.\" When I was there, live jazz was still being performed in the basement and the baristas on second floor were also jazz afficionistas. ...more New Netherland and New Amsterdam were phrases I remembered from dusty history textbooks of 7th grade, but never thought much about until I discovered Russell Shorto's \"Island at the Center of the World\" through the recommendation of two friends in the upper Hudson Valley. Shorto makes the gritty early days of New York City come alive, telling about its numerous taverns, prostitution and wary dealings with cagey Indians. (He debunks the myth of childlike Indians settling for just a bunch of beads New Netherland and New Amsterdam were phrases I remembered from dusty history textbooks of 7th grade, but never thought much about until I discovered Russell Shorto's \"Island at the Center of the World\" through the recommendation of two friends in the upper Hudson Valley. Shorto makes the gritty early days of New York City come alive, telling about its numerous taverns, prostitution and wary dealings with cagey Indians. (He debunks the myth of childlike Indians settling for just a bunch of beads to give up Manhattan). While he serves up a generous stew of cultural and social history, his text is primarily a history of ideas -- the Dutch experimentation with toleration and republican self-government as an alternative to corporation rule. He credits a forgotten young lawyer, Adriaen Van der Donck with spearheading this movement and challenging the authoritarianism of director-general Peter Stuyvestant. Shorto's argument is that New York's reputation for diversity and its anything-goes atmosphere helped it become a great port, eclipsing its rivals like Boston and Philadelphia. Some might argue its geographic location was a bigger factor, but toleration probably did help lure more ships and immigrants to the Big Apple. Perhaps it's a timely lesson for America to relearn as it builds walls and toys with trade barriers to keep others out. Island at the Center of the World ...more This was a wonderfully written work of non-fiction that illuminates the history of the founding of Manhattan. Russell Shorto brings his characters to life by adopting a style of narrative generally reserved for fiction. These players shaped history, and Shorto draws you into their world with colorful portraits and accurate depictions of the facets of life in the mid-1600s in the wilderness of Manhattan. In capturing both the positive and negative aspects of the founders of Manhattan, Shorto help This was a wonderfully written work of non-fiction that illuminates the history of the founding of Manhattan. Russell Shorto brings his characters to life by adopting a style of narrative generally reserved for fiction. These players shaped history, and Shorto draws you into their world with colorful portraits and accurate depictions of the facets of life in the mid-1600s in the wilderness of Manhattan. In capturing both the positive and negative aspects of the founders of Manhattan, Shorto helps you understand the settlers' goals, ideals, allegiances, and as a result, their reasoning and motivation. Shorto opens a window wide into an era of history alternately shrouded, caricatured and overlooked. You can't help rooting for each character, even as they oppose each other. You celebrate in their triumphs and share in their disappointments as their plans are foiled and their hopes are dashed. I finished the book with a wonderful understanding and appreciation for the Dutch colony of Manhattan and the colonists who upheld and championed ideals of tolerance and liberty that shaped America. ...more This is a thoughtful and very readable look at the years that Manhattan (and much of its surrounding area) was a Dutch colony. Russell Shorto takes the position that the New Netherland colony has been undeservedly forgotten, and that instead of being a \"failed colony\" it actually had cultural and political influence on what would become the United States of America. He argues this point fairly well, and I suppose I buy his argument. But what I liked about the book is how it fired my imagination. This is a thoughtful and very readable look at the years that Manhattan (and much of its surrounding area) was a Dutch colony. Russell Shorto takes the position that the New Netherland colony has been undeservedly forgotten, and that instead of being a \"failed colony\" it actually had cultural and political influence on what would become the United States of America. He argues this point fairly well, and I suppose I buy his argument. But what I liked about the book is how it fired my imagination. I had long known, of course, that New York was once New Amsterdam, but nothing I've read about those early days has brought them to life as well as this book does. I very much enjoyed reading about the Dutch origins of familiar sites in New York City, and of the people who lived and worked there during those times. Shorto introduces us to the leaders of the colony as well as to the everyday people; the farmers, the tavern keepers, and the prostitutes. And we also get a good description of the forces in Europe at the time that would influence the fate of New Amsterdam. A really good book. I don't know why it took me so long to get around to reading it. ...more History is written by the victors. I guess that's why the only thing I learned in school was that New York was settled by the Dutch and originally called New Amsterdam and that Peter Stuyvesant had a wooden leg. I was so interested in Adriaen Van der Donck and think he should be as noteworthy an early American as William Brewster, John Smith or John Winthrop. I wonder had he achieved his goal of changing the government of New Amsterdam from the tyrannical rule of the East India Company to the represent History is written by the victors. I guess that's why the only thing I learned in school was that New York was settled by the Dutch and originally called New Amsterdam and that Peter Stuyvesant had a wooden leg. I was so interested in Adriaen Van der Donck and think he should be as noteworthy an early American as William Brewster, John Smith or John Winthrop. I wonder had he achieved his goal of changing the government of New Amsterdam from the tyrannical rule of the East India Company to the representative one for which he campaigned , would the British so easily have taken the city. I have been to New York a couple of times and to envision it as farm country with small villages and primitive port is almost impossible. I enjoyed all the miscellaneous tidbits in this book. The list of supplies that Van der Donck shipped back to the New World when he returned, the fact that his Mother divorced his Father and had to pay alimony, the somewhat petty grievances that were taken up in the courts. Now I think I need to read more indepth accounts of the Spanish in Florida ...more Manhattan, or New Amsterdam as it was known in the 1620s had a short colonization under the Dutch who founded New Netherlands before it was seized by the English in 1664. Under the directorship of Peter Minuit, famous not only for establishing this new colony for the Dutch but for purchasing it from the Indians for $24, this colony was a vigorous and cosmopolitan trading post. Filled with details about the lives and trials of famous historical figures such as Henry Hudson, after whom the Hudson Manhattan, or New Amsterdam as it was known in the 1620s had a short colonization under the Dutch who founded New Netherlands before it was seized by the English in 1664. Under the directorship of Peter Minuit, famous not only for establishing this new colony for the Dutch but for purchasing it from the Indians for $24, this colony was a vigorous and cosmopolitan trading post. Filled with details about the lives and trials of famous historical figures such as Henry Hudson, after whom the Hudson River is named, Peter Minuit and Peter Stuyvesant, the one-legged governor who lost Manhattan to the English in 1664, this book also covers lesser known individuals such as Adriaen van der Donck, who proposed and fought for more representative government, free speech and tolerance. This reads more like an adventurous novel than it does a history book, and I credit Shorto's wonderfully descriptive style for bringing to life the people, sights, smells, thrills and tragedies to the reader. ...more I was led to read this by a Book Club and am really glad I was. Otherwise, I'm not sure this would have come across my radar. It is an illuminating look at the earliest settlements in Manhattan, those by the Dutch. Other readings had introduced me to this time period (e.g. Edward Rutherford's \"New York\"), but this book is more expansive. It not only gives us history, but a look into people we've heard of and those we've not, as well as noting how the Dutch influenced the very character of Americ I was led to read this by a Book Club and am really glad I was. Otherwise, I'm not sure this would have come across my radar. It is an illuminating look at the earliest settlements in Manhattan, those by the Dutch. Other readings had introduced me to this time period (e.g. Edward Rutherford's \"New York\"), but this book is more expansive. It not only gives us history, but a look into people we've heard of and those we've not, as well as noting how the Dutch influenced the very character of America. The writing style is compelling and flowing. Yes, it is nonfiction, but it reads almost like fiction. ...more The story of New Amsterdam and of the Dutch in North America is a fascinating one. Unfortunately this book completely fails to do said story justice. After several chapters of Shorto leaping from one piece of trivia to therefore some person \"surely must\" have done this, been feeling that or said this other thing, I gave up. Given how many layperson history books seem to be based on this leaping narrative, I guess it most sell, but I for one am really sick of it. There are plenty of ways to tell The story of New Amsterdam and of the Dutch in North America is a fascinating one. Unfortunately this book completely fails to do said story justice. After several chapters of Shorto leaping from one piece of trivia to therefore some person \"surely must\" have done this, been feeling that or said this other thing, I gave up. Given how many layperson history books seem to be based on this leaping narrative, I guess it most sell, but I for one am really sick of it. There are plenty of ways to tell a fascinating story that's actually based on history instead of the author melodramatically recreating what they think history probably was based very loosely on documentation. ...more Interesting early history of Manhattan. Most of the history of the New Netherland colony is not even mentioned in schools because the English eventually took over the colony and all of the historical records are in Dutch, but after reading this I am convinced that NYC would not have become the capitol of the world had it originally been part of the New England colony. I really enjoyed reading all of the bits of early American history trivia (e.g., there was a fairly successful New Sweden colony Interesting early history of Manhattan. Most of the history of the New Netherland colony is not even mentioned in schools because the English eventually took over the colony and all of the historical records are in Dutch, but after reading this I am convinced that NYC would not have become the capitol of the world had it originally been part of the New England colony. I really enjoyed reading all of the bits of early American history trivia (e.g., there was a fairly successful New Sweden colony in the New World). ...more I listened to this one, which might have been a bad move. The thing is, this is a book that I had been meaning to read for a while and never got around to, and it seemed like audio was a good way to knock it off my list, but...I don't know. There's too much there. It was hard to pay close enough attention. Plus I found the reader kind of annoying. I think normal reading is the way to go here. I was kind of torn about this. On the one hand, it is great history, because it finally tells the story o I listened to this one, which might have been a bad move. The thing is, this is a book that I had been meaning to read for a while and never got around to, and it seemed like audio was a good way to knock it off my list, but...I don't know. There's too much there. It was hard to pay close enough attention. Plus I found the reader kind of annoying. I think normal reading is the way to go here. I was kind of torn about this. On the one hand, it is great history, because it finally tells the story of the Dutch New Netherland colony in an accessible way. People should know about this. I agree that the Dutch have been unfairly ignored/marginalized. And Shorto really does a great job grounding this in the documents - that is part of the whole theme of the book, the fact that he's getting this from newly translated documents. But. Shorto isn't just trying to convince people that New Netherland was important. He's trying to convince them that the Dutch were the MOST important. He practically draws a straight line from 1620 to 2000 and claims that somehow, this multi-cultural tolerant Dutchness took root in Manhattan and never faded for four hundred years and that's why NYC is so diverse and tolerant now. Which is nuts. He knows full well that New York wasn't New York until the Erie Canal was built in the 1820s, but he (seriously!) claims that the Dutch could just somehow \"sense\" the future importance of the city. You would be excused, after reading this, for thinking that basically, no other important city existed in early America. The only spot that matters now and the only one that mattered then was Manhattan. Is there some essential intolerant Puritan-ness in Boston, four hundred years later? It's all universities and biotech and robots. And ultra-liberal people. You can argue that the Dutch were important without basically writing \"How the Dutch Invented America.\" Anyway, I was not convinced. ...more Governments, corporations, religions and proponents of individual rights fighting for dominance and influence..some things never change! So enlightening to see the 17th century world from a non-English perspective. I have a whole new appreciation for the Dutch and their impact on America. This book is about the original Dutch colony founded on the island of Manhattan, originally called New Amsterdam. I knew it existed, but that was literally the limit of my knowledge - so this book was a real eye-opener. It charts the history of the colony: its internal struggles with the West Indian Company and its directors, mostly famously Peter Stuyvesant; the on-off again conflicts with the Native Americans; its rivalries with the neighbouring Swedish and English colonies; and its eventual t This book is about the original Dutch colony founded on the island of Manhattan, originally called New Amsterdam. I knew it existed, but that was literally the limit of my knowledge - so this book was a real eye-opener. It charts the history of the colony: its internal struggles with the West Indian Company and its directors, mostly famously Peter Stuyvesant; the on-off again conflicts with the Native Americans; its rivalries with the neighbouring Swedish and English colonies; and its eventual takeover by England during the period breakout of war between England and the Netherlands. It also serves to highlight just how great the influence of the Dutch was in the founding of America - how New York was and always has been a very different creature to the other early cities, like Boston and Philadelphia. I couldn't put this book down. It's as readable as a novel and twice as interesting. If only all non-fiction could be written like this. I don't think I've ever come across such a wonderfully written history book. Take this section for example: This book invites you to do the impossible: to strip from your mental image of Manhattan Island all associations of power, concrete, and glass; to put time into full reverse, unfill the massive landfills, and undo the extensive leveling programs that flattened hills and filled gullies; to return streams from the underground sewers they were forced into, back to their original rushing or meandering course. To witness the return of waterfalls, to watch freshwater ponds form in place of asphalt intersections; to let buildings vanish and watch stands of pine oak, sweetgum, basswood, and hawthorne take their place. To imagine the return of salt marshes, mudflats, grasslands, of leopard frogs, grebes, cormorants, and bitterns; to discover newly pure estuaries encrusting themselves with scallops, lamp mussels, oysters, quahogs, and clams. To see maple-ringed meadows become numbered with deer and the higher elevations ruled by wolves. And then to stop the time machine, let it hover for a moment on the southernmost tip of an island poised between the Atlantic Ocean and the civilization of Europe on one side and a virgin continent on the other; to let that movement swell, hearing the screech of gulls and the slap of waves and imagining these same sounds, waves and birds, waves and birds, with regular interruptions by wracking storms, unchanged for dozens of centuries. And then let time start forward once again as something comes into view on the horizons. Sails. When was the last time you read history written like that? ...more work pc Blurbifications - Publishers Weekly Drawing on 17th-century Dutch records of New Netherland and its capital, Manhattan, translated by scholar Charles Gehring only in recent decades, Shorto brings to exuberant life the human drama behind the skimpy legend starting with the colony's founding in 1623. Most Americans know little about Dutch Manhattan beyond its first director, Peter Minuit, who made the infamous $24 deal with the Indians, and Peter Stuyvesant, the stern governor who lost the i work pc Blurbifications - Publishers Weekly Drawing on 17th-century Dutch records of New Netherland and its capital, Manhattan, translated by scholar Charles Gehring only in recent decades, Shorto brings to exuberant life the human drama behind the skimpy legend starting with the colony's founding in 1623. Most Americans know little about Dutch Manhattan beyond its first director, Peter Minuit, who made the infamous $24 deal with the Indians, and Peter Stuyvesant, the stern governor who lost the island to the English in 1664. These two seminal figures receive their due here, along with a huge cast of equally fascinating characters. But Shorto has a more ambitious agenda: to argue for the huge debt Americans owe to the culture of Dutch Manhattan, the first place in the New World where men and women of different races and creeds lived in relative harmony. The petitions of the colony's citizens for greater autonomy, penned by Dutch-trained lawyer Adriaen van der Donck, represented \"one of the earliest expressions of modern political impulses: an insistence by the members of the community that they play a role in their own government.\" While not discounting the British role in the shaping of American society, the author argues persuasively for the Dutch origins of some of our most cherished beliefs and their roots in \"the tolerance debates in Holland\" and \"the intellectual world of Descartes, Grotius, and Spinoza.\" Shorto's gracefully written historical account is a must-read for anyone interested in this nation's origins. Booklist: As the song goes, \"Even Old New York was once New Amsterdam.\" Unfortunately, for many Americans, that is the limit of their knowledge about the Dutch colony that was seized by the English in 1664. Shorto, author of two previous books and articles published in the New Yorker and the New York Times Magazine, presents an outstanding and revealing chronicle of the Dutch presence on Manhattan Island. Much of his research is based on recently translated Dutch primary sources that have languished in archives in Albany. Written in elegant prose, this enthralling story provides original perspectives on several historical figures, including Henry Hudson, Peter Minuit, and Peter Stuyvesant. Shorto also highlights the contributions of Andriaen van der Donck, an energetic, charismatic man who played an integral part in creating a dynamic, diverse, and tolerant society that appears refreshing when compared to the neighboring Puritan-dominated colony in Massachusetts. This is an important work. ...more Drawing on 17th-century Dutch records of New Netherland and its capital, Manhattan, translated by scholar Charles Gehring only in recent decades, Shorto (Gospel Truth) brings to exuberant life the human drama behind the skimpy legend starting with the colony's founding in 1623. Most Americans know little about Dutch Manhattan beyond its first director, Peter Minuit, who made the infamous $24 deal with the Indians, and Peter Stuyvesant, the stern governor who lost the island to the English in 166 Drawing on 17th-century Dutch records of New Netherland and its capital, Manhattan, translated by scholar Charles Gehring only in recent decades, Shorto (Gospel Truth) brings to exuberant life the human drama behind the skimpy legend starting with the colony's founding in 1623. Most Americans know little about Dutch Manhattan beyond its first director, Peter Minuit, who made the infamous $24 deal with the Indians, and Peter Stuyvesant, the stern governor who lost the island to the English in 1664. These two seminal figures receive their due here, along with a huge cast of equally fascinating characters. But Shorto has a more ambitious agenda: to argue for the huge debt Americans owe to the culture of Dutch Manhattan, the first place in the New World where men and women of different races and creeds lived in relative harmony. The petitions of the colony's citizens for greater autonomy, penned by Dutch-trained lawyer Adriaen van der Donck, represented \"one of the earliest expressions of modern political impulses: an insistence by the members of the community that they play a role in their own government.\" While not discounting the British role in the shaping of American society, the author argues persuasively for the Dutch origins of some of our most cherished beliefs and their roots in \"the tolerance debates in Holland\" and \"the intellectual world of Descartes, Grotius, and Spinoza.\" Shorto's gracefully written historical account is a must-read for anyone interested in this nation's origins. ...more In \"Island at the Center of the World\", Russell Shorto makes a powerful argument that the cultural values of the New Amsterdam colony are critical constituents of modern American Society. His book his very engaging, particularly given the vast scope of material it covers: the geopolitics of the 17th century, biographies of all the major players in New Amsterdam, descriptions of the colony, as well as other locations central to the story like London and The Hague. Much of the energy of the book c In \"Island at the Center of the World\", Russell Shorto makes a powerful argument that the cultural values of the New Amsterdam colony are critical constituents of modern American Society. His book his very engaging, particularly given the vast scope of material it covers: the geopolitics of the 17th century, biographies of all the major players in New Amsterdam, descriptions of the colony, as well as other locations central to the story like London and The Hague. Much of the energy of the book comes from the struggle between Stuyvesant, the mercurial and dictatorial general of the colony, and Andrian Van Der Donk, one of the settlers who attempted to overthrow the colonial dictatorship and replace it with a Dutch-style municipal democracy. Stuyvesant won the battle, but then quickly lost the war to the English, who were the ones to ended up writing much of the colonial history that we learned in school (ie. Puritans, Thanksgiving, etc.) For that reason, Shorto argues, the importance of New Amsterdam has largely gone misunderstood until recently. Shorto is a little digressive at times, but given the massive amount of material he had to pore through (over 12000 pages of recently translated documents from the colony, hundreds of secondary sources, and maps, letters, and treaties scattered in libraries all over the world,) you can forgive him when he goes on a little bit at length. Altogether a solid read- and an important one for anyone who wants to understand the history of New York or America. ...more<---C>Russell Shorto</---C><+++>The Island at the Center of the World: The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan and the Forgotten Colony That Shaped America</+++>", "Title": "The Island at the Center of the World: The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan and the Forgotten Colony That Shaped America"},
