{"Comments": "There\u2019s a scene in Vampire\u2019s Suck (yes, my husband and saw it with a group of friends and exited the cinema a few hours later with a few less braincells). Vampire\u2019s Suck\u2019s version of Mike Newton from Twilight approached the Bella character upon meeting her, threw an arm around her shoulder and said, \u201cWow, you look pretty frigid and boring! Wanna go to prom?\u201d Despite the stupidity of this movie they managed to encapsulate,<---M> in one brilliant sentence</---M>, the biggest problem I\u2019ve had with the YA paranor There\u2019s a scene in Vampire\u2019s Suck (yes, my husband and saw it with a group of friends and exited the cinema a few hours later with a few less braincells). Vampire\u2019s Suck\u2019s version of Mike Newton from Twilight approached the Bella character upon meeting her, threw an arm around her shoulder and said, \u201cWow, you look pretty frigid and boring! Wanna go to prom?\u201d Despite the stupidity of this movie they managed to encapsulate, in one brilliant sentence, the biggest problem I\u2019ve had with the YA paranormal novels of late. Particularly Fallen, Hugh Hush, Evermore, Halo, and the countless others like it that I haven\u2019t managed to torture myself with.<---F> The female main characters are BORING</---F>. What\u2019s more, they\u2019re written in the roles of heroines and tragically couldn\u2019t act less heroic. Unless those bitches were hiding their sheballs somewhere I couldn\u2019t see. (Yes, most women totally have sheballs.) Except for Chris Crocker\u2026 See? Evie is such a refreshing departure. She\u2019s funny and, here\u2019s something new, FUN. From her crazy antics and funny obsessions to even the most simple of phrases that come from her mouth. Now, I\u2019ll briefly explain about the Mary Sue test. Most authors and people in general are familiar with this term. It basically means the Main Character, if she is a Mary Sue, is basically an author self-insert. Otherwise known as Luce, Nora, Ever, Bethany, Clary, Tessa and the biggest Mary Sue ever \u2013 Anita Blake. Though imagining yourself doing various and weird sexual acts with Jean \u201cI stole my leather pants from a hooker and now she wants them back\u201d Claude is just a little weird. Unfortunately Evie ticks quite a few boxes on the Mary Sue test: Evie is remarkably beautiful. Evie carries an unusual weapon, wears a strange piece of jewelry, or otherwise displays a unique possession on her person. Evie is notably witty, always ready with a sharp comeback or clever remark. Alternatively, she is fascinatingly stern and close-mouthed. She is a natty dresser, always in fashion, or not in fashion but so well as to make the fashionable pale in comparison. There's an unusual story centering around Evie's birth or infancy. She was adopted, raised by people other than her parents, or for some reason has no biological parents. There are prophecies about Evie. Evie has psychic abilities, exceptional strength, magical powers, can heal with a touch, or has any other skill, talent, or power that we would consider superhuman. More Than one special power. Practically no one else in the story has similar powers. But you know, she never feels like a Mary Sue. I guess her cute yearning for cars, high school, lockers, television and all the other little quirks to her personality give her a rounded character. I thoroughly enjoyed the relationship between Evie and Lend. Not only did they have some witty and fun banter. There\u2019s also that rare feeling that I have when I read novels, that these two could actually make it. I\u2019m serious in that I could actually see these two getting married and the whole happily ever after too. They really make a lovely couple. Unlike some people\u2026 Anita and Jean Claude know how to have a good time together\u2026 no really! The plot and pacing move nicely throughout the story and whilst it was easy to guess who the bad guy was and what the eventual outcome would be, it didn\u2019t annoy me like it has in other novels. Can I help it if I\u2019m, like, practically a genius or something? No, no I can\u2019t! So over all this novel was a breath of fresh air. I completely enjoyed it and I absolutely can\u2019t wait to read the sequel! I highly recommend it to most people, except for anyone named Bob and I think that out of most of the other YA paranormal lit out there, this one is definitely the best. ...more When you look at the cover of this book, what do you think it is about? A blond teenage girl is wearing a prom dress in a field of pussy willows or wheat or something equally nonsensical. Here's a new cover that crushes the actual book cover on the relevancy front (though regrettably not in terms of artistic merit): I mean, I went into this thinking it was going to be another YA paranormal romance and IT ISN'T. It is decidedly fun YA urban fantasy book. (jacket copy reading is for losers) It has When you look at the cover of this book, what do you think it is about? A blond teenage girl is wearing a prom dress in a field of pussy willows or wheat or something equally nonsensical. Here's a new cover that crushes the actual book cover on the relevancy front (though regrettably not in terms of artistic merit): I mean, I went into this thinking it was going to be another YA paranormal romance and IT ISN'T. It is decidedly fun YA urban fantasy book. (jacket copy reading is for losers) It has a pretty kickass heroine, mermaids, werewolves (that may or MAY look like an Ewok in my picture), people made of water, people made of fire, vampires, trolls, nymphs, faeries, and everything else you can think of. Why would you trick your audience with the wheat field? I digress. Evie has lived in the Center for as long as she can remember. She was picked up at the age of three and put through the foster system until the IPCA (Int'l Paranormal Containment Agency) realizes that she can see through glamours produced by all paranormals. As a vital asset, she goes out to bag-and-tag all sorts of beings for the agency. Things get a little dicey when all sorts of paranormals are being killed, the Center is invaded, and some faeries are being total douchebags. Speaking of faeries, Reth sounds like a noise someone makes when they are choking on something. Reeeth...Reeeeth...I'm retching here, it's too bad you can't hear it. I felt like the last third or so wasn't as strong as the rest of the book. The story moved at a relaxed but appealing pace until a total break occurred and then it was out of whack. (view spoiler) [The moment Evie looks, sees a sign for the prom, and then Lend asks her (hide spoiler) ] Fun, sure, but I was perfectly happy with the natural pacing of the relationship--I was glad it wasn't going into trite YA foreverlove territory, and it still didn't...but it did get a little cheesified. <---A>Kiersten White</---A> has a great sense of humor. Her characters were funny and fans of Buffy will definitely find something appealing about the friendships and storyline. I'm excited to see where it goes in the second book-- Supernaturally .(which, incidentally, has Evie in a red dress and with some red (and probably completely irrelevant) flowers on the cover) (view spoiler) [I'm a little bit annoyed that Evie left Vivian alive/potentially alive. Just kill the villain already! And naming your taser \"Tasey\"...blech. (hide spoiler) ] 3.5 stars.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I do not have the patience to read a book where the heroine talks like this: \"Oh bleep! I'm so pumped! He kissed me! It was the best kiss of my life! It's such a cool kiss!\" Oh bleep? Oh bleep? I'm out. (Young adult genre + supernatural creatures) x love triangle - originality = De ja bloody vu Why even bother reading this book? I can point you towards hundreds of other young adult books that are more or less exactly the same as what you get from <+++>Paranormalcy</+++> . I keep going back to this kind of genre, hoping that just once I will find the exception to the current book cloning rule that seems to be taking over the 21st century. We have a heroine who is neither good or bad enough to be exciting, s (Young adult genre + supernatural creatures) x love triangle - originality = De ja bloody vu Why even bother reading this book? I can point you towards hundreds of other young adult books that are more or less exactly the same as what you get from <+++>Paranormalcy</+++> . I keep going back to this kind of genre, hoping that just once I will find the exception to the current book cloning rule that seems to be taking over the 21st century. We have a heroine who is neither good or bad enough to be exciting, she's not exactly weak but doesn't have much strength to note, and the attempts to give her some kind of quirky sense of humour failed. She has a taser gun (my first thought: \"cool!\"), which she has named \"Tasey\" (not so cool). I thought the only people who named their guns were cops caught in a mid-life crisis. Apparently not. Why do I get the feeling that I've met every single one of these characters before? Oh, that's right... because I have. So, yeah, they have different names but that's about it. Also, what exactly is the big story here? Some sort of unheard of supernatural creature is killing other supernatural creatures by leaving a big fiery handprint on them. Well, that's genius. It wasn't even a good unoriginal story. And naturally there's a love triangle going on too. It seems that most young adult authors don't know how not to put a love triangle in their books. This time it's Lend v. Reth. Lend is quite a cute character and my favourite of the pair; mostly because, wait for this, Reth repeatedly attempted some kind of supernatural rape thing - not good at all. No really, I don't know what it was all about but he kept trying to \"fill her\" with his \"warm essence\". Wtf? The book started to really drag about half way through and I kept pushing myself to finish it because I'm sick of abandoning books, an abandoned book feels like a fail on my part. So I braved it til the end, even though I did do a bit of skimming on the last few chapters. My conclusion? Well, I can sort of, maybe, possibly see why some people might like this. It's not completely awful, but I do wish I'd stuck with my initial instincts when I saw the quote by Becca Fitzpatrick on the front cover and thought \"uh-oh\". ...more I probably would've given a slightly higher star rating if there hadn't been so much damn hype around this book. Alright. I'm feeling pro/con-y today. I'm taking a break from pharmacology homework to write this, so I need to get back to that. And it's a football Saturday, I've got a Bud Light in hand, so my thoughts are less than structured. Pros: - The cover is pretty, even though I can't decide how it correlates to the story. - There is a seriously wide variety of paranormal creatures in this boo I probably would've given a slightly higher star rating if there hadn't been so much damn hype around this book. Alright. I'm feeling pro/con-y today. I'm taking a break from pharmacology homework to write this, so I need to get back to that. And it's a football Saturday, I've got a Bud Light in hand, so my thoughts are less than structured. Pros: - The cover is pretty, even though I can't decide how it correlates to the story. - There is a seriously wide variety of paranormal creatures in this book, each type having their own special powers/abilities. Vamps, werewolves, fey, water nymphs, mermaids, hags, gnomes, trolls. Yay for a smorgasbord of weirdness! - The idea behind the book is cool. The International Paranormal Containment Agency hires Evie to track down unruly paranormals who threaten the unveiling of their existence, allowing her to tase them to the fullest extent of her desire. - Evie is an especially special (heh) abnormal human who can see through paranormal creatures' glamours. She kicks serious butt and can take down a gaggle of vamps without a second thought. - I didn't lose interest in the book throughout the first 4/5 of the novel. - Evie's fascination with lockers was cute and funny. - There were some really clever lines in this book. The interaction between Lend and Evie caused some near-LOLs. Cons: - Evie was annoying. I found her cute at first. Ya know, she's a girl who doesn't get out much (read: ever) and she clings to whatever sense of normalcy available with every fiber of her being. She watches hip teen shows and wears zebra print dresses and pink stiletto boots. She has a right to be a little weird. But somewhere along the line, she just began to grind my gears and wasn't cute anymore. I can't get much more descriptive than that, really, because I don't know when exactly she began to annoy me. - Lackluster love interests. Reth was semi-appealing at first, until he uttered the line \"let me fill you.\" I think I temporarily lost control of my gag reflex and gastric content at that moment. I later found out it didn't mean what I thought it meant, but WHO CARES?! That line should never be used in any context whatsoever, unless he's a bartender offering to fill her drink or a millionaire offering to fill her bank account. Lend just bored me. He shouldn't have bored me because he's your typical nice guy who isn't quite normal and, like the heroine, is looking for somewhere to belong. But he just didn't do it for me. - Pink taser with rhinestones? Acceptable. Pink taser with rhinestones named \"Tasey?\" *facepalm* *headdesk* *keysmash* OAIm PA7A *Wrj H~! LK#(*&%(T~~!!!! - The villain wasn't scary. - The weird, hokey ending with the floating and the souls and the WTF. This book may appeal to many people and apparently has. I'll probably read the sequel, but I'm not rushing out to get it. If you like cutesy books with happy little rainbow endings, by all means, help yourself. It could've been better, though. ...more Being dead wasn't supposed to hurt. Where was the fairness in that? If I was dead, the least the universe could do was make it painless. This novel was actually awfully written but the plot was funny, and so was the main character. I mean, I'm sure Kiersten's writing has improved and the only reason I picked this one up is because I wanted to see how her writing is/was. I'm sure the other 2 books are much better and now that And I Darken is almost published, I'm sure that one will have much mor Being dead wasn't supposed to hurt. Where was the fairness in that? If I was dead, the least the universe could do was make it painless. This novel was actually awfully written but the plot was funny, and so was the main character. I mean, I'm sure Kiersten's writing has improved and the only reason I picked this one up is because I wanted to see how her writing is/was. I'm sure the other 2 books are much better and now that And I Darken is almost published, I'm sure that one will have much more improvements. I wanted to see how her writing is and what changes might be made. The writing in this one is pretty bad. I mean, the main character, Evie, is pretty annoying, not much of a heroine, pretty weak, and instead of cussing, she says \"bleep\" because she's so used to hearing it from her best friend who is a mermaid. Other than that, she's pretty confident with herself and her jokes are bad but they made me laugh. (Because they were bad ) This isn't really a typical YA romance-paranormal novel that deals with vampires, faeries, mermaids, werewolves and other paranormals. It dealt with romance but it wasn't a main point. It mainly focused on finding out who was killing all these paranormals and what/who is Evie. Because she can see through the glamours of a paranormal, she is considered not only human but a paranormal herself. See, if there is a vampire with their glowing bright yellow eyes walking in the streets of Miami, FL, someone will think \"Ooh pretty eyes, nice color\" and they won't know that creature is a bloody-sucking creature, but Evie immediately knows. She sees yellow eyes behind the brown ones, blue ones behind the grey ones, and she sees what kind of paranormal it is. But there comes the mysterious one, Lend, who is introduced as some shape-shifter who turns out to become Evie's friend and I guess boyfriend? Sadly, there was a love-triangle. It wasn't a big one and it wasn't much of a distraction, but it still bugged me. Love triangles are something I do not like. I think they are useless and pointless and they ruin the story most of the time. We always get introduced to the main female and male character but then some other male character is introduced and well, that's where the love triangles is sensed. The main female character leaves the main male character and falls for the other male character. Wow that was confusing even for me. The reason the love triangle wasn't a big distraction was because it wasn't really a love triangle. What I mean is, Evie falls for Lend and spends time with him while her ex, Reth (a faerie) tries to win her heart back, touch her, make her his and blah blah blah all that. But, Evie doesn't really want him back. Sure she misses his arms wrapped around her and her thin waist, his warmth around her, his protection over her and everything else they did. But after she saw who he really was and what he did to her (which is around page 100 and on) she doesn't want anything to do with him. I was okay with that! I shipped her with Lend (sort of) and didn't want her going back to Reth. The only reason why I sense a love triangle was because I thought she would go back to Reth, since she was talking to Lend and becoming his friend while she was thinking about Reth. The plot was hard to get at first. I didn't understand it. I didn't know what the book was really about, where it was going, and what was the point of it. It did take a while, and because of the lack of writing and stupid horrible jokes, nothing really made sense at one point. It was hard to get into it and there were times where I put the book down because it was a really frustrating and stupid part, I didn't want to continue reading. Hopefully the 2nd and 3rd books are better! ...more Actual rating 2.5 stars. Let me start by saying that I didn't hate this book, but I also didn't love it either. It was cute, spunky, and funny. However, there was just something about it that annoyed me. So I've recently found out what a Mary Sue is. All this time I've been calling it \"A la Bella-esque.\" Evie is most defiantly a Mary Sue. And I've come to the realization that I had a love/hate relationship with Evie the entire book. I thought she was really funny and down right silly at times. B Actual rating 2.5 stars. Let me start by saying that I didn't hate this book, but I also didn't love it either. It was cute, spunky, and funny. However, there was just something about it that annoyed me. So I've recently found out what a Mary Sue is. All this time I've been calling it \"A la Bella-esque.\" Evie is most defiantly a Mary Sue. And I've come to the realization that I had a love/hate relationship with Evie the entire book. I thought she was really funny and down right silly at times. BUT at the same time she annoyed me with being so cheerful with her love of all things pink. I kept flipping back an forth. Sometimes I felt her endearing. Yet other times I wanted to bitch slap her. But I digress. I did find a few things I liked about the book. I found Evie's relationship with Lend to be very realistic. It wasn't over done. They weren't ripping their clothes off after only dating for a week. They weren't confessing their undying love for one another. Actually, I would say the romance kinda took a backseat in this book. It was there, but it didn't feel like it controlled the plot. Also, I did find the book really funny. Awesome dialog. Bonus points for no cliffhanger. Anyway, I can't really think of anything else to add to this review right now. It just didn't leave a lasting impression like I had hoped. I will continue with the series. More so, out of curiosity for where the story will go. More reviews and more at Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . ...more Paranormalcy has it all: romance, adventure, suspense. This book made me laugh out loud and cry. Evie is an amazing character with a fabulous, authentic voice. I want to watch girly tv with her (and of course battle evil right after!) I wrote a longer review of Paranormalcy back in 2010. At the time, I had just started my book-review blog, and this was one of the first ARCs I ever received. So I think there was a lot to originally endear me to the story, and it was definitely light, cute, and a quick read. But then I tried to read the sequel, and I subsequently discovered that \"light\" and \"cute\" books just didn't hold my interest anymore. The characters (Evie? her mermaid friend?) were a bit too \"ABC Family\" for my taste (i.e. I wrote a longer review of Paranormalcy back in 2010. At the time, I had just started my book-review blog, and this was one of the first ARCs I ever received. So I think there was a lot to originally endear me to the story, and it was definitely light, cute, and a quick read. But then I tried to read the sequel, and I subsequently discovered that \"light\" and \"cute\" books just didn't hold my interest anymore. The characters (Evie? her mermaid friend?) were a bit too \"ABC Family\" for my taste (i.e. trying for interesting/perhaps even provocative, but only succeeding in being over-the-top and slap-worthy). So in retrospect, I have to remove Paranormalcy from my 'Favorites' shelf. It's a good book, I'd definitely recommend it to younger readers or 'chick lit meets lite fantasy' fans, but...I guess I've outgrown books like this. ...more Paranormalcy, Kiersten White \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u0627\u0648\u06cc \u062f\u0631 \u0633\u0631\u0632\u0645\u06cc\u0646 \u062e\u0648\u0646 \u0622\u0634\u0627\u0645\u0647\u0627\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u06a9\u06cc\u0631\u0633\u062a\u0646 (\u06a9\u0631\u0633\u062a\u0646) \u0648\u0627\u06cc\u062a\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u0648\u0646\u0627 \u062d\u0633\u06cc\u0646\u06cc\u061b \u0645\u0634\u062e\u0635\u0627\u062a \u0646\u0634\u0631: \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0646\u0634\u0631 \u0642\u0637\u0631\u0647\u060c 1390\u060c \u062f\u0631 312 \u0635\u060c \u0627\u0646\u062f\u0627\u0632\u0647 20 \u062f\u0631 14 \u0633.\u0645.\u060c \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9786001192364\u061b \u0686\u0627\u067e \u062f\u06cc\u06af\u0631: \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u06af\u06cc\u0633\u0627\u060c 1393\u061b \u062f\u0631 312 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9786006885551\u061b \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639: \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u06af\u0627\u0646 \u0622\u0645\u0631\u06cc\u06a9\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0628\u0631\u0627\u06cc \u0646\u0648\u062c\u0648\u0627\u0646\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0642\u0631\u0646 21 \u0645 First off, I really liked Evie. She reminded me of Mac (from the Fever series) a little, and that can't be a bad thing. I'm usually very fastidious when it comes to finding heroines that I like, but Evie was actually really nice. She may have had a couple of blonde moments towards the end (no offense to blondes, of course - my mother is actually blonde) but I still think she was fierce, fun, refreshing, and insecure in a way that I found quite endearing. I alternated between wanting to grab her a First off, I really liked Evie. She reminded me of Mac (from the Fever series) a little, and that can't be a bad thing. I'm usually very fastidious when it comes to finding heroines that I like, but Evie was actually really nice. She may have had a couple of blonde moments towards the end (no offense to blondes, of course - my mother is actually blonde) but I still think she was fierce, fun, refreshing, and insecure in a way that I found quite endearing. I alternated between wanting to grab her and hug her and wanting to go shopping with her. She just has that aura about her. And when the time came for her to make the right decision, she made it. Plain and simple. There was no messing everything up so that the stage is set for the next book to have a bunch of obstacles to move and things to fix that could have easily been avoided if the heroine had only made the right decision. To be blunt, she wasn't stupid (like some heroines I won't mention here *cough*Ever*cough*). (view spoiler) [Although there was one thing that she could've done differently: I wanted her to kill\u2014or at least find some thorough way to get ride of\u2014her sister. That particular story line did irk me a little. I know that seems harsh, but nothing good can come from her sister IMO. (hide spoiler) ] Lend was completely different from what I was expecting. Kind, sweet, yet protective when the situation called for it. He was the perfect yang to Evie's yin. And the paranormal aspect with him seemed more unique than most out there right now; I liked that. I've never been a big fan of faeries when they're the kind that manipulate and take you away from where you're clearly supposed to be. So I think it's safe to say that I didn't really like Reth. But, in this case, I'm not quite sure you're supposed to. It seems to me that the author wants us to know he's not really a second choice for Evie\u2014unless he changes drastically in the next installment\u2014so much as an obstacle for Evie to overcome. So, as far as love triangles go, I'd say this novel doesn't really have one (YES! That's a good thing, IMO). And here's to hoping that doesn't change in the next installment. Now, I think the only thing I haven't mentioned is the writing. I think that some may read this novel and feel that it's maybe too cutesy or fluffy; however, for me, it was just a nice change of pace from all of the angsty YA romances that seem to be so popular. So, Paranormalcy is a good debut and I look forward to seeing where this story goes in the sequel, Supernaturally . ...more I'll admit it, I was lured into reading this one due to the oh so lovely cover as I'm a huge sucker for pink. Luckily, Evie, the narrator of Paranormacly, shares my enthusiasm for the rosy hue. However, that's about all we share aside from our love of shopping. I'm contemplating joining a YA paranormal support group. More often than not, these reads fail to deliver. I need to cut the ties that bind and admit this genre is no longer what it once was. Or perhaps I've matured as a reader. But seeing I'll admit it, I was lured into reading this one due to the oh so lovely cover as I'm a huge sucker for pink. Luckily, Evie, the narrator of Paranormacly, shares my enthusiasm for the rosy hue. However, that's about all we share aside from our love of shopping. I'm contemplating joining a YA paranormal support group. More often than not, these reads fail to deliver. I need to cut the ties that bind and admit this genre is no longer what it once was. Or perhaps I've matured as a reader. But seeing as I bought this book for the pretty pink cover, I rather doubt it. Nevertheless, the books within this YA paranormal genre are no longer up to par. I wanted to relish in this one, hoping against hope that it would be as funny as the blurbs boasted. I had myself convinced that Paranormalcy would be similar to Buffy the Vampire Slayer with a bit of Georgia Nicholson thrown in for good measure. Alas, thou hast been deceived once again by duplicitous marketing genius. I should have known that if several authors I have no respect for thought this was \u201cThe sexiest, scaries and funniest new addition to the paranormal genre\u201d that I need to turn tail and run. This book is about as sexy and \"scary\" as \"The Little Mermaid, and let's face it, \"The Little Mermaid\" was much more humorous. In fact, \"The Little Mermaid\" was a bit more menacing when I think about it. The sea witch had me going for a minute there, and at one point I was terrified that she would marry Prince Eric and Ariel would be trapped forever as a mute without her fishy friends to keep her company, but I digress. As I mentioned, this book lacked humor, I didn't laugh once, not even an internal chuckle. Evie simply isn't intelligent enough to be witty, nor is she ridiculous enough to laugh at. I'm a bit confused as to what exactly I was meant to find humorous. Worse, there wasn't a single moment of swoon. Did I mention that I used to have a raging crush on Prince Eric? I used to dream I could be turned into a mermaid with a singing voice, just so I could become mute in order to be made back into the human I am. Oh the glories of being 5 years old! See what I did right there? I compared the maturity level of this 17 year old narrator to my 5 year old self, *sigh*. Speaking of sighs, brace yourself, because this book is chalk full of them. People are sighing all thie time up in this tome. Now I know what you're thinking, you can't believe that a book lacking in maturity or humor couldn't at least boast of having a hottie. Well, let me tell you, don't believe the dust jacket. The dust jacket claims that there are two guys vying for Evie's affection, insinuating a sordid love triangle that those of us with wavering reading morals live for. Sadly Evie hates one of these mentioned studs, with good reason I might add, and the other is just so ordinary and innocent that I hardly had to catch the drool. There simply wasn't any angst, anywhere. Read for brain candy if you must, but I for one, recommend you waste your hard earned dollars on something a bit more entertaining, like \"The Little Mermaid\". ...more This novel had me hooked from the first page. I mean with an intro like this how can you not want to read the rest: \u201cWait- did you-- You just yawned!\u201d The vampire\u2019s arms , raised over his head in the classic Dracula pose, dropped to his sides. He pulled his exaggerated white fangs back behind his lips. \u201cWhat, imminent death isn\u2019t exciting enough for you?\u201d \u201cOh, stope pouting. But, really, the widow\u2019s peak? The pale skin? The black cape? Where did you even get that thing, a costume store?\u201d If that d This novel had me hooked from the first page. I mean with an intro like this how can you not want to read the rest: \u201cWait- did you-- You just yawned!\u201d The vampire\u2019s arms , raised over his head in the classic Dracula pose, dropped to his sides. He pulled his exaggerated white fangs back behind his lips. \u201cWhat, imminent death isn\u2019t exciting enough for you?\u201d \u201cOh, stope pouting. But, really, the widow\u2019s peak? The pale skin? The black cape? Where did you even get that thing, a costume store?\u201d If that doesn\u2019t have you stifling a laugh and anxious for more.... well you must have an incredibly boring sense of humor.. or you might be dead! I think for a book described as a paranormal, I was expecting something a little more serious... and perhaps dark. But I should have known from those first lines that this book was going to be different! I think that\u2019s why I liked it so much, it is definitely different. Evie was such a great character. She\u2019s innocent and completely ignorant... but it works. It\u2019s the life that she\u2019s lived, she\u2019s always been sheltered and left in the dark. I think that made her character memorable. At least for me, I know it did. Evie stood out. The prophecy thing.... which I don\u2019t really want to say much about, really took me for a loop. I was totally engrossed in what was going on with the agency and trying to figure out who the bad guy was, the prophecy sort of snuck up on me! The added mystery surrounding that, really added to the suspense of the novel! A paranormal that is funny, engrossing and memorable.... it can only mean one thing.... AWESOME! I can not wait to dig into book two and see what Kiersten has up her sleeve! ...more Yeahhhhh, so this one started out pretty funny. I kind of liked Evie. Though I did think she was much less mature than what you think someone would be, based on her level of confinement. The bad guy was ok. I didn't really see her as intimidating. I mean, she really wasn't. Her wrath was kind of peaceful. It's hard to explain but I felt like they were just rumors of a bad guy, that there was no actual bad guy in this book. I did not like the IPCA. I thought what they did to paranormals was wrong, Yeahhhhh, so this one started out pretty funny. I kind of liked Evie. Though I did think she was much less mature than what you think someone would be, based on her level of confinement. The bad guy was ok. I didn't really see her as intimidating. I mean, she really wasn't. Her wrath was kind of peaceful. It's hard to explain but I felt like they were just rumors of a bad guy, that there was no actual bad guy in this book. I did not like the IPCA. I thought what they did to paranormals was wrong, wrong, wrong. It was slavery, slavery I tell you! I was all set to complain about the lack of answers in this book. No explanation of what paranormalcy is, nothing about how that stun gun worked. You mean to tell me not one single PN was immune to a measly stun gun?? How the heck can you be paranormal then? I'd call you different, but not paranormal! I think this was the first book that I've read where the paranormals were extremely lame and so unimpressive. They were weaker than humans. They let humans control them. How could you not know basic self defense? I mean, they let themselves get caught by a 16 year old girl with a stun gun who admittedly does not work out!!! Do they have bricks for feet or something?? Really, they sit and patiently take accept it and politely ask questions. Me? I'd ask a question to distract her, karate chop her in the neck, and run like there's a 49 cent sale on best sellers at the nearest bookstore. I think most people would still like this one. It was funny in most places and extremely clean. There was no excessive violence and no bad language. It was lighthearted but just not enough to get more stars from me. The ending was kind of lame and anti-climatic. I liked Lend, Lissa and David. There was someone else I liked but I couldn't read the name I wrote in my notes (and I already returned the book)! I still don't know about Reth. And the cover lies! It is a beautiful cover, but it was all lies. The cover makes you think it's dark, but it's not. It's light and campy (not a bad thing, but the cover lies!) ...more This is the book that you read when you need a break from dark, serious, hefty novels and just want something fun! Paranormalcy not simply about vampires, or werewolves, or faeries, it's includes ALL of them- and more. I really had a great time with it and enjoyed the medley. Evie can see paranormals: No matter what glamour they wear, she can see through it. She's been living with the IPCA, an agency who controls the paranormals, all her life and feels pretty lonely being the only (human) teenage This is the book that you read when you need a break from dark, serious, hefty novels and just want something fun! Paranormalcy not simply about vampires, or werewolves, or faeries, it's includes ALL of them- and more. I really had a great time with it and enjoyed the medley. Evie can see paranormals: No matter what glamour they wear, she can see through it. She's been living with the IPCA, an agency who controls the paranormals, all her life and feels pretty lonely being the only (human) teenager there. Evie is an incredibly fun character. She has wit, spunk and a definite sense of humor. I loved how she gets excited for the smallest things - like lockers - and we get to see her take in the real world. I also didn't get an annoyed teenager vibe from her. Evie is very mature for her age which I imagine comes from being raised by IPCA as well as seeing unimaginably icky things daily. However, it doesn't change the fact that she longs for a boyfriend like on her favourite show, and wishes she could just go to real high school prom. Evie soon meets a very intriguing love interest, Lend. He's like nothing she's ever seen before - literally. I loved Lend. He's the type of noble guy that you can always count on. His relationship with Evie is not instant either, it progresses at a great pace where you can see and feel their attraction grow. I was also delighted with the lack of a love triangle. I enjoy love triangles as much as the next, but sometimes it's nice to get a change of pace. As for the plot, it's just plain fun! Vampires, fairies, mermaids, werewolves, wookies, you name it. Don't expect anything too deep or elaborate, but do count on a lot of attitude, pink weapons and interesting twists! And all of this in a quick, satisfying read. ...more Paranormalcy definitely was a cute little book. It was entertaining, funny and a little romantic at times \u2013 but, honestly, while I enjoyed it, it didn\u2019t really make a lasting impression on me. Evie was very pink, but also very refreshing when compared to other heroines I\u2019ve met so far. I loved her little quirks and her excitement when it came to \u2018normal\u2019 life. Her obsession with her pink rhinestone taser \u2018Tasey\u2019 (something that had me very suspicious at the beginning) actually didn\u2019t bother me t Paranormalcy definitely was a cute little book. It was entertaining, funny and a little romantic at times \u2013 but, honestly, while I enjoyed it, it didn\u2019t really make a lasting impression on me. Evie was very pink, but also very refreshing when compared to other heroines I\u2019ve met so far. I loved her little quirks and her excitement when it came to \u2018normal\u2019 life. Her obsession with her pink rhinestone taser \u2018Tasey\u2019 (something that had me very suspicious at the beginning) actually didn\u2019t bother me that much. It was kind of cute. Lend was a great love interest, not particularly swoon worthy, but interesting and sweet nevertheless. Liked all the different kinds of paranormal creatures and their specialities. But overall, I just didn\u2019t care that much for the characters and I also thought that the story lost a bit of its steam around the two third mark. I found the \u2018final battle\u2019 very anticlimactic. It was almost over before it really began. The ending left things opens for the sequel, but avoided a mean cliffhanger \u2013 thankfully. All in all, I liked it, but it just wasn\u2019t that big a thing for me. If I can swap the next instalment, I think I\u2019ll give it a read. But I can\u2019t say that I\u2019m dying to get my hands on it, and with all the great books coming out all the time, I might forget about it until September \u2026 ...more I was skeptical after I read a ton of reviews and saw that Becca Fitzpatrick recommended it (very bad sign in my opinion), but I decided not to cancel my pre-order and have a go. Now I have to say: I really liked the book. And I liked the heroine and her love-interest (I mention only one, because that manipulative control-freak behavior of RetCh, the conscience-free faerie, cannot be counted as love-triangle worthy. He just used her loneliness and her craving of any kind of physical contact to r I was skeptical after I read a ton of reviews and saw that Becca Fitzpatrick recommended it (very bad sign in my opinion), but I decided not to cancel my pre-order and have a go. Now I have to say: I really liked the book. And I liked the heroine and her love-interest (I mention only one, because that manipulative control-freak behavior of RetCh, the conscience-free faerie, cannot be counted as love-triangle worthy. He just used her loneliness and her craving of any kind of physical contact to reach his goal. There is really NOTHING to recommend or excuse him apart from good looks. So don't try to convince me of the opposite. Aprilynne Pike wrote in her blurb \"...One won Evie's heart and the other won mine.\" I enjoyed Mrs. Pikes debut well enough to rate it three stars, but after this disclosure of her bad taste in evil guys I will be very wary of books to come). After reading her story I can even understand Evie's girlish preference for pink, sparkling clothes and tasers and her motivation to give her Taser and her knife pet names: Since she turned eight she has been living underground, held like a dumb princess in an ivory tower, fed with only the information necessary to tag and bag random paranormals for the International Paranormal Containment Agency that is her \"home\" and shamelessly uses her unique gift of seeing beyond every kind of magic glamour. All her confidants are grown-ups. She is home-schooled by a permanently depressed female werewolf and High-School is something that happens on TV. If you were Evie, would you not jump at every possibility to shop with your otherwise business-like guardian for some ultra-girlish clothes, which resemble the stuff the actors on your favorite Teen TV Drama \"Easton Heights\" flaunt? Would you not try to be a little normal, to be a teenager? Evie does not own rhine-stone-studded hand-bags because she never leaves the Center outside of a mission. So she compensates by decorating her weapon and giving it a silly name. Apart from the difference in age and that unhealthy degree of helpers syndrom Rachel Morgan has, Evie's personality reminded me a lot of this favorite urban fantasy heroine of mine. I don't excactly know why. But she was not at all how I had imagined her to be. What I also liked were the various commonly known paranormal lores (faerie, vampire, werewolf, mermaid, elementals ...), their adaption and their integration into the book's world-building. Nicely done. I think I will pickup the sequel \"Supernaturally\", when it comes out in paperback. ...more Paranormalcy is a fun, flirty, addictive read with a great paranormal twist. I literally found myself wanting to read it again when I finished it. I love Evie! She's one of those characters I wish was real so I could be friends with her. Evie is a sassy, smart, decisive, strong, sarcastic, butt kicking, \"make the world better\", pink stiletto boot wearing character that I fell in love with. Evie herself is a paranormal character who can see through the glamour of other paranormals. That makes her Paranormalcy is a fun, flirty, addictive read with a great paranormal twist. I literally found myself wanting to read it again when I finished it. I love Evie! She's one of those characters I wish was real so I could be friends with her. Evie is a sassy, smart, decisive, strong, sarcastic, butt kicking, \"make the world better\", pink stiletto boot wearing character that I fell in love with. Evie herself is a paranormal character who can see through the glamour of other paranormals. That makes her an effective part of the IPCA (International Paranormal Containment Agency). She has a great best friend who's a mermaid, an ex boyfriend who's a fairy, and will stop at nothing to win her back, a hot shape shifter who can give her everything she's wanted and oh yeah, she's a one of kind paranormal. Everything changes for Evie when she meets Lend, a shapeshifter who may be the one person who can relate to her and understand her. He might be able to give her something she's not had, normalcy. If Lend hadn't broken into IPCA, it might be easier to get to know him. Evie's not part of the IPCA task force for nothing, she's smart and works her way around the \"rules\". Oh, Bleep! The love triangle is so well done! Lend and Evie. Evie and Reth. Which one will will she choose.... Lend the hot shape shifter or Reth, the hot, bad tempered fairy who wants Evie back. I love Paranormalcy's rich world building and memorable characters. Kiersten White does a suburb job with her unique spin on the paranormal world. She wrote a story that captured me and leaves me wanting more. I laughed out loud, I sighed and I even got teary eyed (which is hard to do). Paranormalcy has the perfect blend of romance, mixed in with action and sprinkled with a dark twist. It's one of the best Summer reads and I've added it to my list of favorite books for 2010. ...more This is kinda like a cross between Buffy and The Mortal Instruments series. Despite the girl on the cover, I couldn't help but picture Sarah Michelle Gellar in the role (younger though, considering Evie is just 16). Her attitude and quirks remind me very much of the early years of Buffy, though obviously nowhere near up to the genius level of Joss Whedon. No offense. Evie is a seemingly one-of-a-kind bagger and tagger of paranormals imbued with a special ability that helps her track them down. She This is kinda like a cross between Buffy and The Mortal Instruments series. Despite the girl on the cover, I couldn't help but picture Sarah Michelle Gellar in the role (younger though, considering Evie is just 16). Her attitude and quirks remind me very much of the early years of Buffy, though obviously nowhere near up to the genius level of Joss Whedon. No offense. Evie is a seemingly one-of-a-kind bagger and tagger of paranormals imbued with a special ability that helps her track them down. She works for the IPCA, International Paranormal Containment Agency, who keeps tabs on all paranormal activity. She has a weapon that she calls by a pet name, Tasey, reminiscent of Buffy's Mr Pointy. Not to mention, the love interest with an angelic face and a dark side; although, this one happens to be a faerie. Then there's the other love interest who is not quite human and the paranormal best friend. There's also a blonde evil girl who is obsessed with \"shiny\" things. I always picture the key-obsessed Glory from Buffy season five. Oh and there's also the middle aged man obsessed with medieval culture who trains her in combat skills, although he really only shows up at the beginning. Sound familiar? Despite it's similarities to a certain previously named pop culture icon, the characters are very easy to fall for. And if you like said vampire slaying goddess, you will love Evie (who job doesn't involve slaying per se, just containment). She also has eyebrow envy like Clary from the Mortal Instruments. It's not exactly central to the story, but it gave me a bit of Deja Vu. This was a first novel and usually it is obvious. The story overall was a light read and mildly exciting. Not near as much so as Buffy or Mortal Instruments, but reminiscent of both (some might say copycat). Even if you aren't familiar with those, you might still enjoy this book. Especially if you're into paranormal. ...more I read this book because I was positive I wasn't going to like it. Which is odd, I'll admit, but I have a thing for ridiculous books. I'm not saying this book wasn't a tad ridic, because it was predictable as hell and what's the word I'm looking for... fluffy? When I think about this book I see a cute fuzzy pink bunny. Evie was pretty likable, but a bit too quirky in a cool way for somebody who basically lived in a modern version of a cave pretty much all her life. But her fashion sense sucks. Ze I read this book because I was positive I wasn't going to like it. Which is odd, I'll admit, but I have a thing for ridiculous books. I'm not saying this book wasn't a tad ridic, because it was predictable as hell and what's the word I'm looking for... fluffy? When I think about this book I see a cute fuzzy pink bunny. Evie was pretty likable, but a bit too quirky in a cool way for somebody who basically lived in a modern version of a cave pretty much all her life. But her fashion sense sucks. Zebra print dress and pink boots? Seriously? Ouch, my eyes! I don't really get the whole OMG!PINK obsession, I skipped that phase when I was growing up. I'm 27 right now, and in my entire life, I've owned (and still do) exactly one item of pink clothing . And I've worn it like, twice. I'm pretty sure all of you are familiar with \"Tasey\". Well... To be honest, this is what comes to mind whenever the name popped up. I don't know why, probably because it's completely ridiculous to give your taser such a silly name. If you are going to name it, then make it sound cool, like The Shocker or Lightning, or whatever. Anything is better than Tasey. I can't even say it out loud without a way too high sounding voice. And then there's Reth. I love his full name, Lorethan, and that's where I'm drawing my big fat pink crayon line. He's creepy, I hated his crap about wanting to fill Evie (seriously, try saying that out loud with a straight face to someone) and I hope his 'new' name will be something in the lines of Paco, or some other typical pimp name. Oh and trust me, he is a pimp, he started carrying a cane around after he reinvented himself. Last but not least: Lend. I adore him. He's sweet, cute and whenever I think of him I want to hug somebody. (work will be interesting tomorrow). I didn't like the ending for some reason. It's probably just me, but half of the time I was scratching my head and thinking 'whut?'. I think I figured it out eventually XD I am reading the sequel. Yes, I am. *nods fiercely* ...more I really thought I'd hate this thing. Mostly because when I looked at the inside cover the first thing I saw was a recommendation from Becca Fitzpatrick , whose work I have a history of loathing. Oh, and then there Carrie Ryan and Aprilynne Pike .... Anyway, there were a lot of reviews from authors whom I don't particularly endorse. Well, I got book-pwned. Let me start at the beginning. Usually I like to start at the end and work my way back but this book is a special exception. The first sixty or so I really thought I'd hate this thing. Mostly because when I looked at the inside cover the first thing I saw was a recommendation from Becca Fitzpatrick , whose work I have a history of loathing. Oh, and then there Carrie Ryan and Aprilynne Pike .... Anyway, there were a lot of reviews from authors whom I don't particularly endorse. Well, I got book-pwned. Let me start at the beginning. Usually I like to start at the end and work my way back but this book is a special exception. The first sixty or so pages were boring. They weren't exactly bad , but they weren't entertaining,either. It was basically Evie terminating vampires in a very non-actiony fashion. Things don't get interesting until Lend breaks into the IPCA. Lend was fanfreakintabulous. I loved him even when he was a \"bad guy.\"11 His sense of humor was amusing, and he kept his cool when his girlfriend said she might accidentally steal his soul. Just so chill. Evie took some getting used to. She was girly and constanty obsessed over Easton Height , and wouldn't use a knife because it wasn't pink. For the first seventy pages, she annoyed me. Then, when she started hanging out with Lend, some of his awesomeness seemed to rub off on her. Next thing I know she's riding down facility hallways in a rolly chair. How's that for awesome? 'Xcept she didn't fall to her awaiting doom like that kid did. But whatever. The plot was surprisingly original. There were quite a number of moments where I was like, \"Oh, shit, this isn't gonna be good...\" and then it ended up being great. There were no \"I NEVER WANT TO SEE YOU AGAIN!\" moments like in pretty much every other YA book in creation. Kiersten danced with the devil in the pale moonlight and SURVIVED! Yaaaay. The climax was so not what I expected. I mean, with two villains, I wasn't sure what to expect in the first place, but still. I had a pretty good idea in mind. And then it was like, BAM! All of the sudden, we're melting doorknobs and devouring souls and killing faeries. See that? I'm the girl frolicking happily, and the horse was this plot. It just came out of nowhere and slapped me. Umm. Yeah. So. I just want to take this moment to point out that the girl on the cover is scary as chiz. She's not ugly . She looks evil, glaring at all. And not even the \"I hate you\" glares that I've come to know and love. This girl's like, \"I'm the Undertaker here to drag you to HELL.\" Creepy. Bye-bye, Beastboy. I have a new favorite shapshifter. ...more Cross posted from my blog: http://penultimatepage.com/review-par... Judging a book by the cover: Dark. Strong. Feminine. Eye-catching. Definitely what comes to mind when I think of Evie and her story. My Thoughts: I have been longing to read Paranormalcy since I first heard about, so naturally, I stalked my mailman when I found out I would be getting my very own copy. Evie, the main character, is quite possibly the strongest heroine I have ever read. However, she is more than just strong. Evie is cl Cross posted from my blog: http://penultimatepage.com/review-par... Judging a book by the cover: Dark. Strong. Feminine. Eye-catching. Definitely what comes to mind when I think of Evie and her story. My Thoughts: I have been longing to read Paranormalcy since I first heard about, so naturally, I stalked my mailman when I found out I would be getting my very own copy. Evie, the main character, is quite possibly the strongest heroine I have ever read. However, she is more than just strong. Evie is clever, sarcastic, hilarious, flirtatious, lovable, and altogether awesome! Paranormalcy isn\u2019s strictly about vampires or werewolves or faeries. Evie refuses to be put in a box labeled \u201cYA Paranormal Romance\u201d. I mean, how can you get a girl that has a pink, rhinestone taser into a box? I wouldn\u2019t even try it. Let Evie, and Kiersten, be unique. They\u2019re good at it. They\u2019re the best. Not only is Evie completely original, but so are the other characters, including the ultra-sexy love interest! Aside from some purposely cliche vampires, a few totally docile werewolves, and an evil faerie, Kiersten gives us some new paranormals to wrap our heads around. After seeing book after book of strictly one or the other, Paranormalcy is a breath of fresh air that seriously makes you think. All of Paranormalcy\u2019s characters have lives of their own. Of course, there is more to a story than fabulous characters. The settings in Paranormalcy are vivid and realistic. From the IPCA headquarters to international cities where Evie tracks paranormals to the faerie paths that take her there, you can perfectly visualize everywhere Evie takes you. Normally, I can tell where a story is going, whether I guess the ending or just the next twist. It starts to get boring. I applaud Kiersten for keeping me guessing. Sure, I could guess a twist here, the effect of some action there, but multiple times, I was utterly stumped. What we get with Paranormalcy is the perfect debut book and I only see this series getting better. The Blurb: Dark and sexy, flirtatious and fun. Paranormalcy is a extraordinarily unique debut that will keep you on the edge of your seat. ...more The doctor was a pleasant werewolf in her midforties. I hadn\u2019t been in here since I sprained my ankle two years ago. And, no, it wasn\u2019t in some exciting way, being chased through a graveyard by a vamp or anything. I sprained it while rocking out to my iPod alone in my room. Apparently hip-hop is not my calling . Originally, I contemplated giving this book 100 stars as it helped take my mind off of my chicken pox and stopped me scratching. And really that is the most important thing in a book at t The doctor was a pleasant werewolf in her midforties. I hadn\u2019t been in here since I sprained my ankle two years ago. And, no, it wasn\u2019t in some exciting way, being chased through a graveyard by a vamp or anything. I sprained it while rocking out to my iPod alone in my room. Apparently hip-hop is not my calling . Originally, I contemplated giving this book 100 stars as it helped take my mind off of my chicken pox and stopped me scratching. And really that is the most important thing in a book at the moment. Paranormalcy was a fun and cute read that I found myself smiling the whole way through. It did have a very youthful feel to it but that didn\u2019t stop me from enjoying it. It contains a bit of mystery and romance, lots of humour and too many different types of paranormals to count. I thought the storyline was unique and refreshing and the writing engaging. Evie was a fun character. She was quirky, could kick butt when needed but was still very girly. She is the kind of character you want to hug but also give her some advice on life. She does need to mature somewhat. And Lend what a sweetheart! I thought his paranormal talent was unique and sometimes kind of freaky. I thought the romance was super cute, moved at a nice pace and didn\u2019t overtake the story. The only thing that I didn\u2019t like about this book was Reth. He annoyed me with his constant let me fill you line. Every time he appeared I rolled my eyes! I think Evie best friend Lish summed up perfectly how I felt about him \"Bleep stupid bleep bleep faeries and their bleep bleep bleep obsessions. He had better stop bleep bleep bleep the bleep bleep rules or I will bleep bleep bleep the little bleeeeeeep.\u201d Overall, a great start to this series that left me excited to read more! However this book won\u2019t be for everyone it might be a bit annoying and cutesy for some of my Bookers friends since she does have a pink bedazzled taser named tasey ! Eek! I feel like I should put hopping fluffy bunnies across the screen or something as a warning.... ...more Oh man, that was good. I feel like my son when he gets a new fun toy, just giddy and happy. This was soo different, in the best way. I honestly have not read anything like this. I was worried it was going to go traditional vampire route or ghosts, but I was very wrong. This just rocked! I\u2019m afraid to write a summary, I don\u2019t want to give one single thing about this one away for any of you who haven\u2019t read it!!!! And, on that thought, if you haven\u2019t read this, what are you waiting for??!?!?! DO IT Oh man, that was good. I feel like my son when he gets a new fun toy, just giddy and happy. This was soo different, in the best way. I honestly have not read anything like this. I was worried it was going to go traditional vampire route or ghosts, but I was very wrong. This just rocked! I\u2019m afraid to write a summary, I don\u2019t want to give one single thing about this one away for any of you who haven\u2019t read it!!!! And, on that thought, if you haven\u2019t read this, what are you waiting for??!?!?! DO IT, DO IT, DO IT. Little side notes: It was a little hard to get past the name Vivian\u2026 that is my mom\u2019s name and while she is quite the spit-fire, I don\u2019t think my mom is who I was supposed to be picturing for this character \uf04a I 100% adored the light romance between Lend and Evie, it was not overdone, nor did it happen overnight. Hallelujah! The parent was INVOLVED in his kids life. Yay, for books without absent parents! This thing gave me Fairies, Werewolf\u2019s, Vampires, Shape shifters, Paranormal\u2019s, mermaids, mere-humans, Hags, water sprites\u2026. I mean you name it, this book had it. Just about something for everyone. And, it wasn\u2019t overwhelming, they were all in the book, but not focused on. We pretty much follow Evie as she interacts with them. I want to know what Lend looks like! Book #2??? Yes, please! I don't want to even look at anything pink for awile.... well, unless it's cupcakes and only then will I make an exception!!! Replace kid with book, you get my point ...more What a cute book and a pleasant surprise! Paranormalcy is a refreshingly well written coming of age story about a sheltered teenage girl who just happens to live in a world filled with vamps, weres and other supernatural beasts. What\u2019s that? You say that sounds just like every other YA book written these days? Well, yeah\u2026 but what is so different about this one is main character Evie thinks for herself, solves her own problems and develops a sweet and healthy relationship with a guy who treats h What a cute book and a pleasant surprise! Paranormalcy is a refreshingly well written coming of age story about a sheltered teenage girl who just happens to live in a world filled with vamps, weres and other supernatural beasts. What\u2019s that? You say that sounds just like every other YA book written these days? Well, yeah\u2026 but what is so different about this one is main character Evie thinks for herself, solves her own problems and develops a sweet and healthy relationship with a guy who treats her well. Uh-huh, it\u2019s not like other YA novels after all, is it? ;) Actually, Paranormalcy is very much like other UF/PNR novels these days. I can see a quite a bit of influence from other writers in Kiersten White\u2019s book. Even so, I enjoyed this. A lot. It\u2019s a fast and easy read with lots of action and interesting supernatural creatures. The only area where the novel suffers is Evie herself. She faces a lot of life changing situations in this story and manages to come out the same optimistic and slightly over-enthusiastic and naive girl in the end that she is in the beginning. We all know that great novels include a little change and a little character growth and while we see Evie change her views of the world, we don\u2019t see that she is much affected by it. Hopefully Evie will mature and grow a little in the books to come. Of course Paranormalcy is part one of a series. I enjoyed this enough that I am definitely looking forward to Supernaturally (second in the series). However, I\u2019m gonna be a stingy bey-otch with those ratings. Even though I really, really want to give this four stars, it seems only right to hold out for the second book and see where that goes. So for now, three stars it is. ...more I could seriously gush and rave about this book for about 10 gazillion reasons, but I realize that you're all very busy and important and have better things to do than read my endless ramblings. So I'm going to limit myself to 5. 5 Reasons you NEED to read Paranormalcy 1. Creativity. In one of the most oversaturated genres out there (YA Paranormal Romance) this book manages to stand out in all the right ways, while still giving you all the great staples we've come to love and expect. There's magi I could seriously gush and rave about this book for about 10 gazillion reasons, but I realize that you're all very busy and important and have better things to do than read my endless ramblings. So I'm going to limit myself to 5. 5 Reasons you NEED to read Paranormalcy 1. Creativity. In one of the most oversaturated genres out there (YA Paranormal Romance) this book manages to stand out in all the right ways, while still giving you all the great staples we've come to love and expect. There's magical creatures. Action. Mystery. Not to mention two swoon-worthy boys. But it's also different. The creatures are unique. The plot keeps you guessing. And she has a bad boy who's actually BAD--in a totally sexy way of course. ;) 2. Evie. OMG you cannot get a better main character. I love her. I want to be her AND be her best friend. And the best part? She's real. You believe in her. 3. Pacing. Kiersten admits to working hard on her pacing in revision--and you can tell. The plot moves at a pace so smooth it's almost impossible to put the book down. In fact, I'd recommend using the bathroom before you get started, because you will NOT want to stop for a potty break. 4. Humor. This book is bleeping funny. (the bleeping joke will make much more sense once you've read it) I laughed out loud the entire time I was reading. No, really. It kinda scared my cats. 5. Kiersten. She's hilarious. She's smart. But best yet, she's approachable. She greeted people at her signing with a hug. She remembered me from SCBWI. She's got one of the biggest books of the year, but you'd never know it to meet her. And you can tell she'll always be that way So yeah--in case you can't tell, I LOVE this book. Get yourself a copy and read it. You won't regret it! ...more I'm really not sure how to review this properly, to be honest. I think this is the first YA novel I've ever read that is really and truly geared toward actual young adults and not the growing adult audience in the genre. It was really the only time in the last year I've spent immersed in YA that I've not been able to identify with a main character, simply because I felt so much older and more mature than her. Anyway, beyond Evie feeling a bit immature--exactly as immature as a sixteen year old sh I'm really not sure how to review this properly, to be honest. I think this is the first YA novel I've ever read that is really and truly geared toward actual young adults and not the growing adult audience in the genre. It was really the only time in the last year I've spent immersed in YA that I've not been able to identify with a main character, simply because I felt so much older and more mature than her. Anyway, beyond Evie feeling a bit immature--exactly as immature as a sixteen year old should be--I thought Paranormalcy was very well done. Kiersten White built a believable world within a world (IPCA) and the creatures and lore she used were interesting and diverse. I liked Lend, their burgeoning attracting was cute (though didn't give me the tingles) and that it was built upon--it wasn't an immediate ~connection~ born of fairy dust and hand to hand electrocution. However, Reth was really, really creepy. I understand there is a bit of Team Reth/Team Lend going on and I have to say I don't get it. We didn't know his motivation throughout most of the book, only that what he was doing was against Evie's will and this homie never plays that. We still don't really know his motivations, so he resides firmly in Creepville as far as I'm concerned. Maybe someone else can enlighten me on his appeal. All in all, it was well-written and well-paced and a book I will have no qualms about recommending to younger family members without feeling a little dirty about it. ...more I will tell you right up front I did not pick up this book on a whim. I\u2019d heard about it, so when I saw an ARC was available, I simply had to have it. So, yes, I read it with some pre-love. But come on, look at that cover! It\u2019s just so shiny and pretty. And that dress is just so gotsta-have-it. It also seems remarkably fitting for Evie, the main character, who is also shiny and pretty. But she\u2019s far more than that as well\u2014she\u2019s downright hilarious. I laughed my way through PARANORMALCY. Evie\u2019s v I will tell you right up front I did not pick up this book on a whim. I\u2019d heard about it, so when I saw an ARC was available, I simply had to have it. So, yes, I read it with some pre-love. But come on, look at that cover! It\u2019s just so shiny and pretty. And that dress is just so gotsta-have-it. It also seems remarkably fitting for Evie, the main character, who is also shiny and pretty. But she\u2019s far more than that as well\u2014she\u2019s downright hilarious. I laughed my way through PARANORMALCY. Evie\u2019s voice just pops in this. Not a line or an action feels out of place because the voice is true to itself. The sparkling teenage voice was so well established that by the end, I felt like I could predict what she would say in any given situation. And Evie herself was just. so. likeable. She was vivacious and quirky (and had a really cool taser named Tasey). She was everything we wished we could\u2019ve been as teenagers, except perhaps for one small thing\u2026she has a freaky ability to see through paranormals\u2019 glamours (enchantments that make paranormals appear to be human). Well, maybe you\u2019d wish for that, too, but perhaps not all the danger she gets into. This books was one wild ride after another with Evie . Now, while Evie got into a lot of dark, action-packed scrapes, it still felt fairly light to me because of the humorous voice. Yet it didn\u2019t detract from the sense of urgency or the suspense, but it did make the book feel\u2026fun. I guess that\u2019s the word I\u2019m looking for. But don\u2019t mistake fun for shallow. There was a greater depth to Evie that allowed me to feel wholly invested in the story, wanting to know how things turned out. And what an adventure! It was such an original, clever premise, which seems pretty amazing to me considering it was packed full of paranormal creatures that have been written into stories for ages. And did I mention the romance? So sweet and touching. And a little bizarre, all things considered, but that\u2019s part of what makes it so cool (I\u2019d like to explain, but you\u2019d hate me for giving away one of the most rockin aspects of this book). You\u2019ll just have to read it to find out. ...more One of my favorite parts of Paranormalcy was the descriptive sighs. It seemed like there was a very cool way to identify each type and I could imagine them clearly in my head. Very curious to see what happens next. I like the new spin on vampires and the seeing through glamors. That was very creative. Also the mystery of the heroine was fascinating. Excited to figure out her purpose in this new world. Paranormalcy is adorably cute! Reading the book felt the same way as hugging my adorably cute nephew. :) It was lighthearted, funny, and deliciously entertaining! Evie, the heroine of this book, is simply likable! Her enthusiasm and curiosity of the real world is so infectious that you can't resist but join her in her quest to feel as normal as possible. Being the only one who could see past glamours used by paranormals, Evie was kept busy by IPCA to capture rule-breaking paranormals. Evie has al Paranormalcy is adorably cute! Reading the book felt the same way as hugging my adorably cute nephew. :) It was lighthearted, funny, and deliciously entertaining! Evie, the heroine of this book, is simply likable! Her enthusiasm and curiosity of the real world is so infectious that you can't resist but join her in her quest to feel as normal as possible. Being the only one who could see past glamours used by paranormals, Evie was kept busy by IPCA to capture rule-breaking paranormals. Evie has always lived inside the facilities of IPCA and has only known 'normal' by watching her favorite show, Easton Heights until she met Lend, a paranormal who's not quite like the types that Evie's used to. Lend brings her to the real world and helps Evie experiences a lot of her 'firsts' as a teenager. I seem to be drawn to this underlying theme of 'innocence' in this book and the experience of first love, first kiss, and other firsts that I became so caught up with this book. It has me quite baffled in the beginning as to what exactly made this book so alluring to me. Now, I know. :) I did find the premise of Paranormalcy different and contemporary. Though the usual suspects are present like in any other paranormal and young adult books, its introduction of the Empty Ones and the addition of water spirits and an international agency monitoring paranormals is refreshing to read. I'm not quite convinced though of the power of a taser and how it can neutralize a paranormal. I find that a bit overreaching but funny nevertheless. Cuteness certainly works! It kept me interested til the end. I'm definitely picking up the next installment. ...more<---C>Raquel</---C>", "Title": "Paranormalcy"},
