{"Comments": "The second book in this series and not quite as good as the first. I felt there was not enough content for the length of the book so it dragged a bit in places. As in the first one I enjoyed the characters although I did get a bit tired of waiting for <---C>Sonea</---C> to use her powers and turn Regin into the rat that he was. (<---B>Sadly she never does</---B>). Having said all that I read the whole book in record time so it must have had something going for it. And I still want to read the next one! This read was okay. I'm literally on a fence as to what I'm actually feeling about it. I like the characters in the book but found that the author drag out the storyline unnecessarily. I found myself getting bored frequently and that is a big No No when I read a book. The heroine in this read also played the victim role way to long. I seriously reached a point that I didn't even care what happen to her as it was pointless. My official rating is 3 Stars and I'll eventually finished the trilogy ( This read was okay. I'm literally on a fence as to what I'm actually feeling about it. I like the characters in the book but found that the author drag out the storyline unnecessarily. I found myself getting bored frequently and that is a big No No when I read a book. The heroine in this read also played the victim role way to long. I seriously reached a point that I didn't even care what happen to her as it was pointless. My official rating is 3 Stars and I'll eventually finished the trilogy ( if only to see how it all ends ) ...more How PATHETIC did Sonea turn out to be in this book? Again,<---M> the author drags part of the story</---M>, aka where Sonea gets bullied by some of the rich, spoilt novices, out for pretty much 2/3 of the book, needlessly I may add. I only gave this two stars because throughout the whole book, whilst the style of writing is still appreciable, I found myself completely aghast at the pathetic, lacking in backbone and self-doubting creature that she turned Sonea into! We are talking about a young, determined indiv How PATHETIC did Sonea turn out to be in this book? Again, the author drags part of the story, aka where Sonea gets bullied by some of the rich, spoilt novices, out for pretty much 2/3 of the book, needlessly I may add. I only gave this two stars because throughout the whole book, whilst the style of writing is still appreciable, I found myself completely aghast at the pathetic, lacking in backbone and self-doubting creature that she turned Sonea into! We are talking about a young, determined individual with a lot of potential for success, the HEROINE for goodness sake, who defiantly evaded the entire Guild of the best magicians in the world, during the first book....to be turned into this pathetic thing! Pretty much the whole book was filled with passages followed by passages of self-doubting 'but if I did this then....on the other hand, why would it matter if they thought....<---F>what if I</---F>...'' questions and it just drove me nuts! Cut out all this self thought passages for the characters crap please! ...more A surprisingly good fantasy title. The plot reminds me quite of Harry Potter (i.e. protagonist in school of wizardry, unusual circumstances of birth, befriended by the school headmaster), but the plot is much more suspenseful and interesting. And none of that ANGST-CRAWLING-IN-MY-SKIN rubbish that one usually sees in this genre of stories. Mature plot, snappy writing, interesting characters. What more could one ask for? Do you know that feeling, when you backpacks weights 10 kg after going to a library? And one single book contains 500+ pages and you have to cycle uphill and all the way you're mad on yourself that you took so many books, when you have other things to do? Your studies, your work, your crafts, etc? And when you start reading a book at 11 pm and finish it after 3 am. And you forget that it weighted tone, that you had something else to do, that it's already morning --- you're fascinated, charmed an Do you know that feeling, when you backpacks weights 10 kg after going to a library? And one single book contains 500+ pages and you have to cycle uphill and all the way you're mad on yourself that you took so many books, when you have other things to do? Your studies, your work, your crafts, etc? And when you start reading a book at 11 pm and finish it after 3 am. And you forget that it weighted tone, that you had something else to do, that it's already morning --- you're fascinated, charmed and totally out of this world. Oh, you do know that feeling? Well, if you want to feel it again - take this book. The story itself is not complicated and I could say that it's even a little bit predictable. But something in it - and it's so hard to say what exactly - makes you want more. The magic world in the book is very real, so are main characters. Sometimes it feels like some of them are only sketches, but they still feel real. I have no idea how this is possible. As I said, fascinating story. ...more After reading this book, I'm really starting to love the series. The first book didn't really get interesting until Sonea got to the Guild. With this book, though, it remained interesting from beginning to end. I can relate to Sonea's goal to be a Healer. And I really approved of <---A>Trudi Canavan</---A>'s view of homosexuality that she portrayed through two of her characters. I won't mention the names here to prevent spoilers. Seeing the progress of one of those characters, both in the journey and realiza After reading this book, I'm really starting to love the series. The first book didn't really get interesting until Sonea got to the Guild. With this book, though, it remained interesting from beginning to end. I can relate to Sonea's goal to be a Healer. And I really approved of Trudi Canavan's view of homosexuality that she portrayed through two of her characters. I won't mention the names here to prevent spoilers. Seeing the progress of one of those characters, both in the journey and realization of his feelings, he quickly became one of my favorite characters. And, of course, the plot thickens. I can't wait to read the next book. ...more It's entirely possible that I was just in the wrong mood to read this book. The first one in the series was ... okay, I guess. I thought of it as brain-dead yahoo-fair. Bathtub reading, if you know what I mean. Simplistic and derivitive but harmless. I thought I saw where the author was going and was willing to follow her to the next book, should the opertunity land in my path. Well, it did and I did and here we are. Unimpressed. The simplicity continues (all poor people noble and good! all wealt It's entirely possible that I was just in the wrong mood to read this book. The first one in the series was ... okay, I guess. I thought of it as brain-dead yahoo-fair. Bathtub reading, if you know what I mean. Simplistic and derivitive but harmless. I thought I saw where the author was going and was willing to follow her to the next book, should the opertunity land in my path. Well, it did and I did and here we are. Unimpressed. The simplicity continues (all poor people noble and good! all wealthy people closed-minded and bad!) and the main character continues her journey toward becoming the worlds biggest Mary Sue ever. She's not quite there yet. The author still has a chance to save her. Of course, I see by Goodreads that there are already several books in ther series after this, so the chances of the main character continuing to reveal that she's the Greatest. Wizard. E-var. are pretty high. Yeah ... I'm probably taking this all the rong way. At least I admit it. Where was I? Oh. Right. So, this book has less of the charming character interaction that saved the first one, and a great deal of repetitive story-telling intersperced with the \"shocking\" insertion of a homosexual character. Bless. Is that still shocking any more? Was this book written in 1987? Sorry, sorry, sorry. I'm all foul today. I didn't hate this book. Really, I didn't. I just didn't much like it, apparently. I felt that it was lazy in all the wrong ways. Not particularly recommended. Unless you either REALLY liked the first book or are into stock-and-tade fantasy palaber. ...more Think of this book as what a Harry Potter novel would look like if it was only about Harry vs. Draco struggle. Except here it's Sonea vs Entire School all-out war with the protagonist being 1) a total victim, 2) accepting everything they throw at her, 3) not fighting back, 4) barely protecting herself, 5) barely accepting help from third parties. Antagonists consist of nearly all the students, most of the teachers, staff and a kitchen sink. Rare people who are on Sonea's side try to help her a l Think of this book as what a Harry Potter novel would look like if it was only about Harry vs. Draco struggle. Except here it's Sonea vs Entire School all-out war with the protagonist being 1) a total victim, 2) accepting everything they throw at her, 3) not fighting back, 4) barely protecting herself, 5) barely accepting help from third parties. Antagonists consist of nearly all the students, most of the teachers, staff and a kitchen sink. Rare people who are on Sonea's side try to help her a little, but it doesn't really work because she's the Ultimate Victim and not cooperating. She doesn't even use all the resources available to her. It was all very funny. I don't doubt it appeals a lot to young readers. There's also a second thread, which contributes exactly nothing. A mage... magician is sent on a quest to find Important Stuff. Instead, he finds himself a lover. I was extremely curious as to how m/m slash looks in young-adult version, but was sorely disappointed. That part of the book was insanely, mind-numbingly boring and consisted of rambling and preaching about tolerance etc. Yawn. Primary school stuff. Ah, the mage... magician found something Strange. Don't get your hopes high though, it's irrelevant to the story and not explained at all, either in the trilogy or in its prequel. ...more This was a spectacular continuation to the Black Magician series. After reading the first book in the series I wasn\u2019t sure if I would continue it; but I am so glad I did. This book is much better than the first one and incredibly interesting and engaging. I listened to this on audiobook and I really love the narrator of these books. He is a pleasure to listen to and does an awesome job with character voices and emotion. I would highly recommend listening to this series on audiobook. There is so mu This was a spectacular continuation to the Black Magician series. After reading the first book in the series I wasn\u2019t sure if I would continue it; but I am so glad I did. This book is much better than the first one and incredibly interesting and engaging. I listened to this on audiobook and I really love the narrator of these books. He is a pleasure to listen to and does an awesome job with character voices and emotion. I would highly recommend listening to this series on audiobook. There is so much tension throughout this book, it just about kills you. Sonea, Lord Robin, and the Administrator know a deadly secret about the High Lord Akkarin that they are desperately trying to keep secret. As if this isn\u2019t enough stress Sonea\u2019s fellow classmates have taken a strong dislike to her. Sonea remains admirable through the book; she is smart and resourceful but continues to get caught up in events that test her. I loved her character and my heart just broke for her throughout this book; there were a couple of times I just wanted to scream \u201cEnough, give the girl a break and some happiness!\u201d Much of the story is also told from Dannyl\u2019s perspective. I adored his parts of the book just as much as Sonea\u2019s. Dannyl does a lot of traveling and ends up on a quest to trace Akkarin\u2019s travels and find out more about the ancient history of magic. These parts of the book had a lot of adventure and history involved in them and I loved them. Both Sonea and Dannyl develope love interests in this book; much of that is in the background but it was nice for these characters to have some happiness in midst of all of their trials. The only thing that really irked me throughout this book was everyone\u2019s fear and assumption that The High Lord Akkarin was evil. Yes, Sonea saw him practicing black magic but did anyone ever try to figure out why Akkarin would do that? Throughout the book Akkarin remains alof, intimidating, and at times strict and even a bit cruel. However, he is never outright evil and I can\u2019t help but believe he isn\u2019t the problem in this book. It bothered me that all the magicians and novices that know his secret just assume that he is evil without finding out if maybe he has a greater ulterior motive. It made me disappointed in the intelligence of the surrounding characters and seemed short-sighted to me. I was especially disappointed in Robin and the Administrator. The other thing I found frustrating was how all the magicians turned a blind eye to how Sonea was tormented by her classmates; at times this torment is so severe as to be torture. I found it disturbing that the adults in this book are okay with the students ganging up on and torturing one young girl. Overall aside from the above two complaints I thoroughly enjoyed the story. The whole book is written in a fantasy style that feels a bit older to me (like 90\u2019s epic fantasy) and I enjoyed it a lot. There is some excellent world-building in here along with a complex plot and characters that are easy to engage with and relate to. The book ends on a cliffhanger that will absolutely kill you; I want to read the third book immediately! I would recommend to fans of classic fantasy. ...more <+++>The Novice</+++> begins right where The Magicians\u2019 Guild takes off. Sonea has started learning magic and she\u2019s by far the best of her group. But because she\u2019s a girl from the slums \u2013 and therefore the victim of prejudice \u2013 she\u2019s subject to many harassments from other students, especially Regin, a boy from her class. He\u2019ll do anything to make her life a living hell and send her back to \u2018where she belongs\u2019. But Sonea is strong and she could give Regin a run for his money. Then there\u2019s the mystery around <+++>The Novice</+++> begins right where The Magicians\u2019 Guild takes off. Sonea has started learning magic and she\u2019s by far the best of her group. But because she\u2019s a girl from the slums \u2013 and therefore the victim of prejudice \u2013 she\u2019s subject to many harassments from other students, especially Regin, a boy from her class. He\u2019ll do anything to make her life a living hell and send her back to \u2018where she belongs\u2019. But Sonea is strong and she could give Regin a run for his money. Then there\u2019s the mystery around Akkarin, the High Lord. Akkarin finds out that Sonea knows about his secret, pulls her away from her loved ones and intimidates her. Poor Sonea can\u2019t catch a break. How long will she be able to handle this? Personally, I found The Novice a much more enjoyable read, which was what I had been told in the first place. The story was right where I found it the most interesting \u2013 right in the school during and in between classes, and right with Lord Dannyl during his ambassadorial journeys. The thing that makes Dannyl stand out is that he\u2019s so cheerful compared to all the other magicians. He\u2019s eccentric and likes gossip and there used to be gay rumours about him when he was young. The story is set in a time where this is absolutely unacceptable and so he was able to suppress all the rumours, but you still wonder \u2013 is he or isn\u2019t he? (view spoiler) [He totally is. I knew it! (hide spoiler) ] Regin. He\u2019s only been active since the beginning of the book and I am getting pretty damn sick of this guy. He\u2019s the guy who keeps bullying our main character (and he\u2019s cruel ). It\u2019s like he has too much spare time on his hands, which surprises me since he needs to study just as hard as Sonea (and she studies every night to keep up). I really hope he\u2019ll die or turn into a chicken or something. That would be nice. All in all, I was really satisfied with this sequel. It was better than the first, which is not something you can say about every second novel... ...more Finally I felt toward the end of the second book that things were picking up. The story has been very good, but too drawn out for my liking. Now, things are starting to get real. Am looking forward to book 3. Wirklich sehr gut und einfach nur einnehmend dieses Buch. Man muss einfach mit fiebern und steckt mitten drin. Ich liebe es, hoffentlich wird der dritte Teil ebenso gro\u00dfartig! This was a brilliant! I thought it was even better then the first book (The Magicianbs Guild). Can't wait to read The High Lord. This is volume 2 of Canavan's first fantasy trilogy, and a much more enjoyable read than volume 1 (which had very little plot). By contrast, in 'The Novice', a great deal happens and a lot of the subplots weave into the main plot, of Sonea's experiences and progress as a magician's novice. Due to her origins in the slums, she meets a great deal of bigotry from other novices and even magicians, and is bullied by a classmate, Regin, who manages to get the rest of the pupils on his side, and later This is volume 2 of Canavan's first fantasy trilogy, and a much more enjoyable read than volume 1 (which had very little plot). By contrast, in 'The Novice', a great deal happens and a lot of the subplots weave into the main plot, of Sonea's experiences and progress as a magician's novice. Due to her origins in the slums, she meets a great deal of bigotry from other novices and even magicians, and is bullied by a classmate, Regin, who manages to get the rest of the pupils on his side, and later to recruit older pupils too. Each day becomes a battle for survival as Sonea is stalked in the corridors after lessons and repeatedly attacked with magic by larger and larger groups organised by this malicious novice. Alongside this, a subplot deals with the discovery at the end of book 1, that the leader of the magicians, the High Lord Akkarin, appears to be (illegally) using black magic. At first, Lorlen the administrator involves Sonea's guardian Rothen in keeping the secret, as Akkarin is so strong that an accusation could lead to a pitched battle between him and the Guild magicians, which he is likely to win. (view spoiler) [Eventually Akkarin learns that his secret is out and shared with Sonea and her guardian, and this leads him to forcibly read their minds in order to find out if they have told anyone else. He then takes over Sonea's guardianship and ensures she can never talk to Rothen or even Lorlen (hide spoiler) ] . A third thread to the story is that Dannyl, friend and former ward of Rothen, is appointed Second Ambassador to the neighbouring land of Elyne. This has been arranged by Lorlen, who recruits Dannyl in investigating libraries and other sources, for information about ancient magic. He doesn't reveal to Dannyl the real reason for this interest, but it is actually to retrace the steps of Akkarin who ten years ago returned from a similar mission, and find out if he learned his black magic somewhere on the trip. All Dannyl knows is that it is inadvisable to let Akkarin know as it might look like prying into his private business, and Dannyl has always been intimidated by the High Lord so is happy to keep the research lowkey. He makes a friend, a scholar at the Great Library in his new land, and as the story goes on, it becomes clear that this friend is gay. In Elyne, this is frowned upon but tolerated whereas in Dannyl's own country it would result in disgrace and in being barred from high office etc. In other countries, it incurs the death penalty. In a changed premise from book 1, the reason Rothen took on Dannyl's guardianship (most novices don't have guardians) is that rumours were threatening to spoil his chances, following a friendship with another novice who was suspected to be gay. In book 1, there was no mention of this - the reason being that Dannyl was lazy and neglecting his studies, and also spending too much time in a running feud with another novice (who became the villain in book 1). As Dannyl spends more time with his new friend (view spoiler) [he eventually undergoes an experience where he realises that he is actually gay and has been using his magic to suppress it (hide spoiler) ] . A minor subplot is that strange murders are happening in the city which point to a rogue magician. Lorlen starts to believe that Akkarin could be responsible. The storytelling itself seems a little better this time though Canavan hasn't entirely got rid of the superfluous adverbs whenever anyone speaks, and also there is far too much nodding, chuckling, smiling etc, again in character dialogue. People smile and chuckle in situations where things are quite serious and it jars. However, there is a bit more tension in this book, and a definite improvement on volume 1. One blooper is that at one point Canavan forgets to use her invented terms and refers to the network of hidden tunnels outside the University as a \"spider's web\" instead of the invented term she usually uses for arachnids. As with book 1, I don't know why she bothered to go through inventing new names for things that sound from context and the back-at-book glossary to be mice, rats, coffee, spiders and other everyday items. This volume didn't make 5 stars for me because it was difficult to believe that a supposedly tough slum girl would have been so timid in facing down her tormentors. Also, she seems very naive, for example, when she first has a meal with the other novices, she answers their nosy questions frankly, admitting that she stole when a child, and when asked if she ever killed someone, that she might have because she defended herself with a knife from sexual assault once. A character who has grown up with such experiences would surely be more shrewd in her responses to the questioning by what turns out to be a bunch of spoiled brats - she could, for example, have said that she helped her aunt and uncle make clothes for a living (true) and that not everyone in the slums steals, using a suitably offended tone. And just said 'no' about the killing. As it is, the other novices immediately turn against her and follow Regin because she has put them all off. I found it hard to believe that she wouldn't have learned to be ecconomical with the truth if not an outright liar on occasion, when she had spent quite a few childhood years in a gang, where surely such skills would have been lifesaving on occasion. Possibly the truth could subsequently have been discovered and put round about Regin, given his obsession with getting her expelled, but it seemed ridiculous that she handed over this ammunition against herself. The bullying sessions also go on for a very long time: she initially tries to escape by extra tuition that allows her to rise to the previous class who at least are not bullies, but Regin does the same and follows, and he then recruits more and more novices to join in his attacks. The magicians do absolutely nothing, even though this is a definite breakdown of discipline on a large scale which they might be expected to frown on for its own sake despite any personal feelings about having a 'slum girl' in the University. And although she acquires a coach to help her with warrior skills (that is, being able to defend against and make her own attacks), she doesn't go to him for help (she can't ask Rothen or Lorlan due to the situation with the High Lord) which would seem the obvious thing to do - she wouldn't even have to explain why, just that she needs to improve those skills, which is one of the threads in the story. In fact, at one point, the tutor is discussing the situation with Akkarin (who knows about the bullying but allows it to go on, to help develop Sonea's powers) and says her problem is that she is 'too nice'. This seems very odd for a girl who is meant to be a tough city kid, rebellious, and defiant of the magicians in book 1, a girl who is handy with a knife on occasion - almost as if she has turned into a sheltered rich kid herself. There is also a slight element of 'Mary Sue', in that Sonea is already stronger than a novice of her age would normally be and showing signs of developing into a magician powerful enough to eventually oppose Akkarin, though I suppose being the protagonist, she couldn't just be an average magician. But the character change isn't very convincing, and therefore I can only give the book 4 stars although I enjoyed other aspects of it. ...more Wer \u00fcber magische F\u00e4higkeiten verf\u00fcgt, hat in Imardin die Macht. R\u00fccksichtslos setzen sich die Mitglieder der Gilde der schwarzen Magier \u00fcber die Armen und Gew\u00f6hnlichen hinweg. Keiner wagt es, sich zu wehren. Nur Sonea, das Bettlerm\u00e4dchen, begehrt auf ... und offenbart eine au\u00dfergew\u00f6hnliche magische Begabung. Sonea wird als Novizin in die Gilde der Magier aufgenommen und ger\u00e4t ins Zentrum einer schrecklichen Verschw\u00f6rung \u2026 Sonea hat sich entschieden, als Novizin in die Gilde der schwarzen Magier Wer \u00fcber magische F\u00e4higkeiten verf\u00fcgt, hat in Imardin die Macht. R\u00fccksichtslos setzen sich die Mitglieder der Gilde der schwarzen Magier \u00fcber die Armen und Gew\u00f6hnlichen hinweg. Keiner wagt es, sich zu wehren. Nur Sonea, das Bettlerm\u00e4dchen, begehrt auf ... und offenbart eine au\u00dfergew\u00f6hnliche magische Begabung. Sonea wird als Novizin in die Gilde der Magier aufgenommen und ger\u00e4t ins Zentrum einer schrecklichen Verschw\u00f6rung \u2026 Sonea hat sich entschieden, als Novizin in die Gilde der schwarzen Magier einzutreten, um mehr \u00fcber ihre magischen F\u00e4higkeiten zu lernen. Ein Privileg, das sonst nur Adeligen zuteil wird. In der Gilde wird sie schnell zur Au\u00dfenseiterin, bis Akkarin, der Oberste Lord, eingreift. Ein zweischneidiges Schwert, denn Sonea kennt Akkarins verborgenstes Geheimnis. Ein Geheimnis, schw\u00e4rzer als die Nacht. Dieser zweite Teil der Trilogie hat mehr Handlungsstr\u00e4nge als der erste, was aber nicht st\u00f6rt, denn die Charaktere sind ja weitestgehend bereits vertraut. Es macht nicht minder Spa\u00df den Abenteuern und der Ausbildung der sympathischen Protagonistin Sonea zu folgen Die parallelen Handlungsstr\u00e4nge erhaltenw\u00e4hrenddessen die Spannung aufrecht. Ein Buch, das schneller gelesen worden w\u00e4re, wenn ich mehr Zeit gehabt h\u00e4tte. Ich freue mich sehr auf den dritten Teil und noch mehr dar\u00fcber, dass die Autorin weitere Reihen ver\u00f6ffentlicht hat. ...more It's been a long time since I was this frustrated with a book. There were so many moments of, \"Why doesn't Sonea shield? Why doesn't she call for help? Why the f**k is she allowing this to keep happening?! And why ffs are the adults not doing a damn thing about all of this!?!\" For a strong character, in this story she does the most illogical things, but then, how dare logical progression interfere with the plot the author wanted. >.< Seriously, Sonea gets into a huge amount of trouble beca It's been a long time since I was this frustrated with a book. There were so many moments of, \"Why doesn't Sonea shield? Why doesn't she call for help? Why the f**k is she allowing this to keep happening?! And why ffs are the adults not doing a damn thing about all of this!?!\" For a strong character, in this story she does the most illogical things, but then, how dare logical progression interfere with the plot the author wanted. >.< Seriously, Sonea gets into a huge amount of trouble because she was framed for stealing a pen. A pen. That's it. Other students sabotaging her, attacking her, torturing her, and nothing. At most a slap on the wrist that's quickly dismissed for the lead aggressor, but nothing for the others. Even when the teachers know this abuse is going on, they do nothing. Really? Ah, but this is a magical guild where the logical progression of events is subverted by the 'i-wanna-write-it-this-way' spell because reasons. True, bullying in real life is an issue; however, it's one that flourishes with secrecy, but that's not the issue here. The adults know what's going on for the majority of the book. In rl, any teacher worth their credential would escort a student and provide safe harbor, and with current media pressure, administrators don't dismiss these issues. Certainly the parents are called in. In any school, Regin would be expelled. Regin is one of the most one dimensional villains I've ever seen. We don't get anything other than he's arrogant and has a cruel smile, and that's the extent of his character. Oh, and he is obsessed with Sonea for reasons unknown. Even if his family felt slighted by Sonea's presence at the school, that doesn't explain the extent this character goes through to ruin her life. And how in the hell is one little first year novice able to spread rumors that any adult would take seriously? The whole thing with Rothem being a letch was so beyond ridiculous. Where are the adults here? We have older people, but no actual adults acting like adults. Lord Rothem, who I initially liked in the first novel, is just as helpless as Sonea in that he should have the ability and intelligence to act but doesn't. This is a book of willing victims, and that's no fun to read. The story line I actually liked was Dannyl's. The way homosexuality is treated in the novel is old fashioned by this age, but I enjoyed the slowly developing romance. While it may end in scandal and tears, I'm hoping for a HEA. The characters are well matched and quite cute together. Last but not least of many issues, this novel could use a lot of trimming. Thanks to Harry Potter and no thanks to crapfests like Divergent or (shudders) Twilight, young adult novels are topping over 500 pages. Just because you can write this much doesn't mean you should. Tighten your plot. At least then I have to suffer less from the ridiculousness. ...more I found this second book in the Black Magician Trilogy to be much more compelling than the first. I had a hard time putting The Novice down. We see some character development here for Sonea and Dannyl and are left to continue wondering what exactly is going on with the High Lord, although by the end of the book there are some clues. He isn't a very well developed character at this point at all, and as the third book is titled The High Lord I am pretty sure we will get a lot more of him there. I h I found this second book in the Black Magician Trilogy to be much more compelling than the first. I had a hard time putting The Novice down. We see some character development here for Sonea and Dannyl and are left to continue wondering what exactly is going on with the High Lord, although by the end of the book there are some clues. He isn't a very well developed character at this point at all, and as the third book is titled The High Lord I am pretty sure we will get a lot more of him there. I have to say that the two separate themes of bullying and sexual identity almost completely took over the whole book and overshadowed the plot, but despite that this book still kept me reading and wanting to know what would happen next. The bullying that Sonea faced was so excessive, and don't get me started on the fact that no one was ever really punished by those in authority for the bullying. I mean what the heck? Regin was like an annoying gnat that you couldn't kill or a bad dream that wouldn't end, and there was no real reason given for the lengths he went to to torment her other than he hated her because she was from the slums. He was not developed beyond that. If he had been I think it would have done a lot more to enhance the story. I did really like the addition of Rothen's son Dorrian, he had a nice easy banter with Sonea and reading their scenes together was one of the nicest parts of the book. It brought some relief from the bullying but we do not get nearly enough of him. As far as Dannyl goes, I didn't find his journey all that interesting and it did nothing to really help the plot along, except for maybe showing us more of the world. It felt like it was mostly there so that he could finally confront his past and his sexuality. I would have liked if his character had had more impact on the main plot line, which is what it seemed would happen in the beginning. So overall a really enjoyable read with a couple of things that could have been improved upon. I'm looking forward to reading the last book in the trilogy. I do need to include another cover rant here. What is that black Pegasus creature doing on the cover? It doesn't appear in the book at all. The rest of the cover is ok. It looks like the scene in the arena with Sonea and Regin and they look the right age. ...more This book was a delight to read. I enjoyed every single page. I loved it! \u201cThere's always a bit of truth in each rumour, the trouble is finding out which bit.\u201d This book is the sequel to The Magician\u2019s Guild. It followed the continuation of Sonea\u2019s story. In this novel she has entered the university to study magic but is met with resistance from some of her class members and teachers. But is she safe now? The High Lord Akkarin harbours a secret that is far darker than his black robes. I am in love This book was a delight to read. I enjoyed every single page. I loved it! \u201cThere's always a bit of truth in each rumour, the trouble is finding out which bit.\u201d This book is the sequel to The Magician\u2019s Guild. It followed the continuation of Sonea\u2019s story. In this novel she has entered the university to study magic but is met with resistance from some of her class members and teachers. But is she safe now? The High Lord Akkarin harbours a secret that is far darker than his black robes. I am in love with Sonea, she is such a strong empowering young woman. To be perfectly honest all the characters were really great, they were full bodied with great personalities, even if some of those personalities are pretty evil. The writing was simple yet descriptive. What I mean is even though the writing was not a challenge a fantastic picture of Sonea\u2019s world was produced. Don\u2019t get me wrong this wasn\u2019t groundbreaking work of description but it gave a good overview of what characters are thinking and what their landscape is. I am so happy that I was reading a book with such a tiny, miniscule, amount of romance. Like, seriously, there was next to none. The plot was not fast, there wasn\u2019t really too much going on in this novel. The main focus was on the relationship between Sonea and her tormentors and Sonea and The High Lord. There was little action as well throughout the novel, but right at the end there is a climax, and it was SO MUCH FUN!!! Even though the action and plot was slow there was still a lot going on with Sonea\u2019s lessons and her exams and her growing relationships with certain characters, so it was far from a dull read. I really liked this book. It has rekindled my love for adult fantasy. I do wish there was a little more going on throughout the novel but overall it was great fun! \u201cWhat was natural and right? Who really knew? The world was never so simple that one person could have all the answers.\u201d I recommend this book to fantasy and YA book lovers (even though this book is not YA it is quite similar to YA novels). 5 stars. Happy reading! Love Hannah xoxo ...more Terminado de leer 09/02/2014 Derecha a izquierda: YO> Taylor siendo super nice con Ryan-S | Autora-troll> Jen detr\u00e1s siendo (rid\u00edculo) mal bicho D= Y es que no me explico c\u00f3mo contin\u00fao yo esta saga/trilog\u00eda. Alg\u00fan embrujo, igual que Jennifer Lawrence a Hollywood, debe haber dejado caer la autora de estos libros sobre mi persona. Es inexplicable, entretiene de hecho, pero que con tantas carencias como las tiene es real y verdaderamente inexplicable. E intercambiando la experiencia literaria por Terminado de leer 09/02/2014 Derecha a izquierda: YO> Taylor siendo super nice con Ryan-S | Autora-troll> Jen detr\u00e1s siendo (rid\u00edculo) mal bicho D= Y es que no me explico c\u00f3mo contin\u00fao yo esta saga/trilog\u00eda. Alg\u00fan embrujo, igual que Jennifer Lawrence a Hollywood, debe haber dejado caer la autora de estos libros sobre mi persona. Es inexplicable, entretiene de hecho, pero que con tantas carencias como las tiene es real y verdaderamente inexplicable. E intercambiando la experiencia literaria por experiencia gr\u00e1fica animada, quedar\u00eda resumida de la siguiente manera: Sonea en: miro, miro y me escondo, miro, miro y me escondo y no, no soy una stalker. Peor, soy la stalkeada. De comienzo a fin te encuentras a Sonea, la ahora aprendiz del Gremio, siendo v\u00edctima de acoso e intimidaci\u00f3n escolar por parte de sus compa\u00f1eros, para los entendidos bullying, que como el anterior malo-malvado no les parece que alguien de sus or\u00edgenes reciba y comparta la educaci\u00f3n y entrenamiento m\u00e1gico que dignos herederos de las m\u00e1s altas y antiguas castas han requerido y merecido por generaciones. Y, en fin, maltrato escolar aparte no es mucho lo que se pueda decir de esta segunda entrega, se mantienen las mismas deficiencias de la anterior en cuanto a ritmo, narrativa, trama, personajes, etc., y al igual que el anterior es Lord Dannyl qui\u00e9n lleva la voz cantante (y salvadora) para tan pobre desarrollo. Puntos clave ser\u00edan el momento en que Sonea se enfrenta al l\u00edder ( mat\u00f3n ) de la pandilla que le hace bullying y la tensi\u00f3n por el secreto del Gran Lord. Por dem\u00e1s, son p\u00e1ginas malgastadas por las que fueron sacrificados \u00e1rboles inocentes * llora * y meh. ...more There is something missing for me with these books. They are 'good' but not as engaging as I would like them to be, or more accurately I think they should have elicited more enthusiasm from me what with all that's going on. There is/was a serial killer on the loose, more problems for Sonea took place, Lorlen, Dannyl and Rothen encountered their own issues, and yet, it was kinds of blah. I think it's the same problem as the last book. The pacing. Everything is just moving SO SLOWLY. The thing is There is something missing for me with these books. They are 'good' but not as engaging as I would like them to be, or more accurately I think they should have elicited more enthusiasm from me what with all that's going on. There is/was a serial killer on the loose, more problems for Sonea took place, Lorlen, Dannyl and Rothen encountered their own issues, and yet, it was kinds of blah. I think it's the same problem as the last book. The pacing. Everything is just moving SO SLOWLY. The thing is I usually don't mind the slow pacing as long as it can keep my interest, but these books are cutting it close. Whenever I stopped reading I would keep putting off getting back to the book, but it just wasn't that interesting. Yes there were problems but I never felt that sense of urgency or danger. (view spoiler) [I don't know if this might be because I simply have never thought the High Lord to be the evil villain everyone keeps thinking he is, so I just don't see the danger. Sure their situation sucks but, that's it. Nothing more to it. (hide spoiler) ] The last two chapters were the only ones that eliciyed any kind of emotion from me (excitement) cause we are FINALLY getting somewhere. After, what like 800 pages between both books, we are actually getting to the meet of the problem. I just think it was 400 pages too long at this point. With that said I'll finish the trilogy because I it's a nice enough fantasy and I'd like to know Akkarin's secrets :) ...more This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ The Novice starts a few months after The Magicians Guild. Sonea is now a novice at the Guild but faces a tough time from the other novices who are distrustful because she is a girl from the slums. Dannyl is now ambassador to Elyne and is on a mission to rediscover ancient magic. At the same time Sonea, Rothen and Administrator Lorlen have to find a way of dealing with and stopping the High Lord Akkarin from using hi This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ The Novice starts a few months after The Magicians Guild. Sonea is now a novice at the Guild but faces a tough time from the other novices who are distrustful because she is a girl from the slums. Dannyl is now ambassador to Elyne and is on a mission to rediscover ancient magic. At the same time Sonea, Rothen and Administrator Lorlen have to find a way of dealing with and stopping the High Lord Akkarin from using his black magic. As I said in my review of The Magicians Guild, I am a big fan of the Black Magician Trilogy, so this might not be an unbiased review. This book has great character development and story line and leaves you wanting to finish the series right then and there. Sonea grows as a character in this book but at the same time is more vulnerable as she is out of her element and does not fit in at the Guild as much as the slums. I also like how we learn about Dannyl and also different parts of this world. I love how Trudi Canavan can make us empathise with all of the characters and how everything is not black and white, similarly the suspected villain is very mysterious and you are unsure of his motives, and whether what he is doing is evil or not.. The Novice is an excellent book and if you are a fan of fantasy books then you should read this series. ...more Wow. Judging by the general rating (4,01!) and after over 500 pages-long intro that The Magicians' Guild was, I expected a bit of an action and a bit of a story. What I got was 600+ pages of another prologue. I'm a bit tired, when will we (ever?) get to some decent action? I'm aware that's YA, but that's not an excuse to see it poorly written. The protagonist is a weak girl, constantly bullied, refuses help and when she finally stands up for herself, she's sure to fail the duel. This kind of a st Wow. Judging by the general rating (4,01!) and after over 500 pages-long intro that The Magicians' Guild was, I expected a bit of an action and a bit of a story. What I got was 600+ pages of another prologue. I'm a bit tired, when will we (ever?) get to some decent action? I'm aware that's YA, but that's not an excuse to see it poorly written. The protagonist is a weak girl, constantly bullied, refuses help and when she finally stands up for herself, she's sure to fail the duel. This kind of a story could be put in less than 600 pages. But it's not a big deal, because despite the title Sonea's story is just a secondary one. To be honest, I'm not quite sure what exactly was the main plot. Dannyl's voyages added nothing to the book and his sexuality issues weren't interesting to read about. All of the characters were dull and flat which is sad, because first book of the series was at least intriguing me how the sequel would end up like. I'm already afraid to start reading the third part. ...more Somewhere between 3 and 4 stars really. Cause I had to pause it for a while, it was hard to get back into the story, so its hard to tell how I really feel about it. I do know i loved it before I stopped and could not wait to continue, so thats the reason for the 4 stars. I loved that more happend than in the first book, and the storylines became more interesting. However I could not give it 5 stars, because the same thing happend too many times... the bullying. And I hate bullies, so I wasn't re Somewhere between 3 and 4 stars really. Cause I had to pause it for a while, it was hard to get back into the story, so its hard to tell how I really feel about it. I do know i loved it before I stopped and could not wait to continue, so thats the reason for the 4 stars. I loved that more happend than in the first book, and the storylines became more interesting. However I could not give it 5 stars, because the same thing happend too many times... the bullying. And I hate bullies, so I wasn't really into those parts of the story. It did became more interesting when the mentor explained why he did not help Sonea. And it became a lot more interesting when she actually stood up for her self. The ending was a little abrupt though... I do really want to know how things end, so I'll be reading The High Lord soon:) ...more This story is just fun to read. Fast paced and so many different POVs. Overall a great read... We get the story of Sonea, Lorlen, Rothen and Dannyl in bits. We get to meet Rothen's son Dorrien who has feelings for Sonea which she returns. We get to meet a bullying loser high class guy Regin-whatever-his-name-is. I had fun towards the end when you know that Sonea would strike back for all the humiliation and embarrassment she faces at his hand. (view spoiler) [It's fun to see when Annakin the High Lo This story is just fun to read. Fast paced and so many different POVs. Overall a great read... We get the story of Sonea, Lorlen, Rothen and Dannyl in bits. We get to meet Rothen's son Dorrien who has feelings for Sonea which she returns. We get to meet a bullying loser high class guy Regin-whatever-his-name-is. I had fun towards the end when you know that Sonea would strike back for all the humiliation and embarrassment she faces at his hand. (view spoiler) [It's fun to see when Annakin the High Lord takes up her Guardianship and the end has left me wanting more of the series. (hide spoiler) ] Waiting for my library to get book 3 soon. ...more It was such an amazing book. I loved it from the beginning. It is amazing how I got so interested and absorbed by the story where magic is the central theme but also the less used one. It is a story that occurred in a magic academy but it is more about friendship, trust, mystery, and a lot of political issues. I love this book so much I can't even... And Dannyl!!!? I am so happy for him. The slowest burning romance ever (not really, is just that I am very anxious). Agh! I am so pleasantly surpris It was such an amazing book. I loved it from the beginning. It is amazing how I got so interested and absorbed by the story where magic is the central theme but also the less used one. It is a story that occurred in a magic academy but it is more about friendship, trust, mystery, and a lot of political issues. I love this book so much I can't even... And Dannyl!!!? I am so happy for him. The slowest burning romance ever (not really, is just that I am very anxious). Agh! I am so pleasantly surprised by the way this story is going. Can't wait to pick the next one up. ...more I was really happy by the first 300-pages of the book and thought that was going to be a truly impressive read. However I was not really pleased with the main string of the second part and thought it was not as well as it could have been. But it was still a really pleasant and enthralling read. This is quite a big volume and I was happy to want to read all the time. Of course I want to read the conclusion now. And spoiler I bought it today in a charity shop. Datado ou ultrapassado s\u00e3o duas palavras que me ocorrem para classificar A aprendiz. N\u00e3o acho que seja ruim, mas a narrativa linear, os estere\u00f3tipos e a reviravoltas que o leitor consegue antecipar a l\u00e9guas de dist\u00e2ncia s\u00e3o problemas dif\u00edceis de ignorar. Ainda assim, a hist\u00f3ria tem um certo apelo e envolve minimamente o leitor. Me cost\u00f3 pila engancharme con este libro pero ya lo termin\u00e9. Sigue sin convencerme Canavan pero igual voy a terminar de leer esta trilog\u00eda en alg\u00fan momento. Los otros dos se llevaron 7/10. Este 8/10. Tras el primero aqu\u00ed los personajes toman m\u00e1s cuerpo sin perder su inter\u00e9s la historia. Read this review on my blog! I was super excited going into this sequel to The Magician's Guild. The first book was a really great fantasy read, but it didn't really have anything special that stood out to me. It was well written though, and I enjoyed the story. However, I hoped that its sequels would prove themselves to be a bit more unique. The Novice did give me some of that. The story took off and took some turns that I wasn't expecting, so I was really pleased about that. However, it still is Read this review on my blog! I was super excited going into this sequel to The Magician's Guild. The first book was a really great fantasy read, but it didn't really have anything special that stood out to me. It was well written though, and I enjoyed the story. However, I hoped that its sequels would prove themselves to be a bit more unique. The Novice did give me some of that. The story took off and took some turns that I wasn't expecting, so I was really pleased about that. However, it still isn't the most original stoy I have every read and I'm okay with that. What really makes me like these books so much is the writing and the characters. The writing in these books is just so well done. The pacing is amazing and there are some really beautifully written passages hidden in there. Everything flows really well and before you know it you'll have finished the book. The story progresses very naturally and it doesn't feel forced, something that often bothers me in other YA books. However, the characters are what really make this series worth it. They are so incredibly lovable and uniqe, I don't think there is a single character that isn't well-written. When reading this series, you really get invested in their stories and I'm always sad to switch POV, even though the new POV is amazing every time too! I do have to say that I was a little bit less interested in Sonea's story in this installment. It was a little bit repetitive, even more so when comparing it to what some of the other characters were getting up to. I did enjoy reading about here though, just not as much as in the last book and not as much as I enjoyed reading about the other characters. If the story sounds interesting to you, definitely give it a try! I promise you: it's worth it. Recommended for: - Fans of the Study series by Maria v. Snyder - Fantasy fans who are looking for a comfortable read ...more", "Title": "The Novice"},
