{"Comments": "I'm going to be up front... this series? You will either love it or hate it. I personally really love gritty real-life/fantasy stories when they're written well, and I think Holly does the combination so much freaking justice. It doesn't try too hard to be overly bad-ass.<---F> Kaye is such a great lead</---F>. Although I don't always see myself in her actions, I still liked her because she was real -- I didn't get the sense that Holly was trying to impress me. She was just writing about a real girl. And hon I'm going to be up front... this series? You will either love it or hate it. I personally really love gritty real-life/fantasy stories when they're written well, and I think Holly does the combination so much freaking justice. It doesn't try too hard to be overly bad-ass. Kaye is such a great lead. Although I don't always see myself in her actions, I still liked her because she was real -- I didn't get the sense that Holly was trying to impress me. She was just writing about a real girl. And honestly, when I compare other female leads in books, I always think about Kaye and if they live up to her standards (<---B>which is not often enough for me</---B>). So many people cut down Tithe for its \"objectionable\" content, but I was actually able to find a lot of realism in the way most of the characters behaved. As I was growing up, the teenagers I knew cursed like sailors and were always trading stories about sex. Unfortunately or not, it's a way of life nowadays -- teenagers are naturally curious. I think in this case, Holly's choice to include these situations and words make her characters come alive. However, that's not all Tithe is about -- people want to focus on that, but it's only a small portion of the entire book. Tithe is different, and some people just don't enjoy or understand how YA can fit that profile. But that's the one thing I appreciate about Holly. She takes YA to another level and proves that it doesn't have to be sappy chick-lit with beginnings and ends that fit together perfectly. For me, <---A>Holly Black</---A>'s writing in Tithe is really hard to pin down. It's like a combination of trippy and poetic. The way she describes things, you feel like you're reading poetry -- I love the detail she pours into Tithe. I think my favorite sections have to be when she describes the faeries and where they live -- she makes it all gothic-y and enchanting and it just makes me feel like I have a spell cast over me that forces me to be in this complete daze. I can't get out of it if I wanted to. I just keep reading every sentence she writes and loving them. ...more Tithe is a very raw, very dark faerie tale. While not suitable for younger readers (lots of swearing,<---M> random torture and violence</---M>, and mature themes), I loved its take on the darker side of faerie. It deals with faerie themes like Changelings and the knowing of one's True Name very well, and Roiben is probably my favorite faery hero of all time. (Kind of like Sephiroth. If you know who Sephiroth is, you'll understand.) The writing was a teensy bit sporadic and hard to follow at first. I found my Tithe is a very raw, very dark faerie tale. While not suitable for younger readers (lots of swearing, random torture and violence, and mature themes), I loved its take on the darker side of faerie. It deals with faerie themes like Changelings and the knowing of one's True Name very well, and Roiben is probably my favorite faery hero of all time. (Kind of like Sephiroth. If you know who Sephiroth is, you'll understand.) The writing was a teensy bit sporadic and hard to follow at first. I found myself going back and re-reading passages to understand them. All-in-all, though, a great story for older, more mature audiences. By the time I got to its sequel, Ironside, I was hooked on Holly Black. ...more Ugh. I don't know where to start with this one so I'm gonna jump right in. I didn't like it. It was all just a raging bunch of WTF?! for me. I mean, it was random. My brain hurts so this isn't going to be a very coherent review. Before I go to my detailed ravings, it's best if I gave a brief overview of what this book was about. It's the story of Kaye, a changeling, who was put under a glamour to hide her true green-skinned self and lives with her rockstar wannabe \"mother\", Ellen. Her life ultima Ugh. I don't know where to start with this one so I'm gonna jump right in. I didn't like it. It was all just a raging bunch of WTF?! for me. I mean, it was random. My brain hurts so this isn't going to be a very coherent review. Before I go to my detailed ravings, it's best if I gave a brief overview of what this book was about. It's the story of Kaye, a changeling, who was put under a glamour to hide her true green-skinned self and lives with her rockstar wannabe \"mother\", Ellen. Her life ultimately changes when her mother was almost murdered in a pathetic, lame excuse of an attempted stabbing, and having nowhere else to go, they return to their home town. Here, Kaye suddenly finds herself reunited with her childhood \"imaginary\" friends, who needs her to help them plot against the unseelie court and win the freedom of the faeries. Narrative It was painful . It's like listening to a child with ADHD jumping from one thing to the next. Everything seemed so rushed that you don't get a single connection to the story. First example of it popped up right there in the freaking prologue. Frank, Stepping Razor's drummer, grabbed Lloyd's arm. Lloyd had just enough time to punch Frank in the face before other patrons tackled him and somebody called the police. By the time the cops got there, Lloyd couldn't remember anything. He was mad as hell, though, cursing Ellen at the top of his lungs. The police drove Kaye and her mother to Lloyd's apartment and waited while Kaye packed their clothes and stuff into plastic garbage bags. Ellen was on the phone, trying to find a place for them to crash. \"Honey,\" Ellen said finally, \"we're going to have to go to Grandma's.\" So a bit of background info, that's the scene where Lloyd, the dude Kaye's mum is dating, the dude they live with -- tried to kill Kaye's mum. And that is literally the single paragraph where it is mentioned. I don't know about you, but if my boyfriend suddenly lost his marbles and tried to kill me, I'd be in a state of hysteria. I'd be wondering what the flying fook was that all about?!? I'd be dedicating at least an extra paragraph or two to explore the psychological damage that's done me, and probably wrap things up a little smoothly. But nope; not this. Apparently they're happy with \"We're going to have to go to grandma's.\" and the next scene, they're living with Nana and Kaye's off to some rave like some whacko never tried to gut her mama. Like wtf is wrong with you people?! And this sort of thing continues persistently throughout the rest of the book. I guess what I'm trying to say is the narrative came out as choppy and rushed; it was emotionally detached from the readers, like an exposition of events. This was happening, and then this , this followed by a whopping amount of this . Characters And this is the second reason why I simply couldn't like Tithe . I just couldn't relate - or even respect - any of them. I'm sorry, Black , was I supposed to root for Kaye and her friends? Was I supposed to care (view spoiler) [when Janet died (hide spoiler) ] ?? So here's the thing. Black was trying to make it seem like Grandma was the annoying, self-righteous, imposing old woman butting into her daughter & grand-daughter's business; and we were supposed to hate her. For shame, Granny, you should know that school is for wussies and you don't need an education for a decent future. Look at your own daughter Ellen! You tried to bring her up with your strict rules and educayshen but she turned out some groupie whore/rockstar wannabe ... better let HER make the decisions for Kaye; she is, after all, her mother. And mother knows best, right? Right?? Also, the depiction of these ... urban (?) teens really frustrated me. It seems that all they do is get stoned, drink, rave, oh and shoplift. And yes I am aware that some people do do this nonstop and burn their pretty little brain cells away, but if you want to make characters with these traits and no redeeming qualities whatsoever, please don't expect me to care about them. Oh and what's with the lack of parental figures in YA? Alright, in this case, what's with the lack of *significant* parental figure? It's like the author wrote Ellen that way just so she conveniently butts out of her daughter's business and doesn't get in the way of her adventure. Kaye shook her head. It was kind of stupid to think that her mother would just give up on going back to the city, but she couldn't help hoping. \"Tell Grandma I won't be home late.\" \"You come home when you want. I'm your mother.\" ....yes, yes you are. So she comes home at like, three in the morning and all's dandy at breakfast the next day. Man am I glad *my* parents weren't that lenient and actually cared if I came home raped or not. ((sidenote)) I don't understand why Kaye was made half-Japanese? Is this somehow relevant in the next installments? --cuz it dang well wasn't in this one! --or is it just some odd otaku homage? [image error] Romance This is the problem with most YAs. I just don't see how these two characters could fall for each other - especially in such short amount of time. Kaye saw Roiben once and fell instantaneously in love with his ... hair? I have no idea. By the way, she met him, bleeding in the woods and her first sentence was \"You're a fairie, aren't you?\" ...and what if I am? I also don't know what Roiben sees in Kaye. Apparently she's \"Kind, lovely and terribly, terribly brave.\" I'm not sure about the kind part, just read over the times she lets her best friend's boyfriend feel her up (twice!), get caught, and just run away (both times!) without bothering to see if her \"bff\" was fine or not. [image error] I'm going to go now because everything's a jumble in my head and I have no idea how to put it in a coherent structure. Final word is, I will not be reading the sequels. *** you can also find reviews at my blog [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Kaye is obviously incredibly lovely and then it turns out she's a magical fairy. Sure her life is hard, but it's the fairies making it that way because she's so important that they're all out to get her. Look, what I'm saying is, it's like the author tried to think of all the coolest latest trends among teenagers and tried to mash them into a fairy story. Kaye is also not anyone's typical teenager. She has super special protagonist syndrome. I found the Faerie described by the author quite intere Kaye is obviously incredibly lovely and then it turns out she's a magical fairy. Sure her life is hard, but it's the fairies making it that way because she's so important that they're all out to get her. Look, what I'm saying is, it's like the author tried to think of all the coolest latest trends among teenagers and tried to mash them into a fairy story. Kaye is also not anyone's typical teenager. She has super special protagonist syndrome. I found the Faerie described by the author quite interesting and the details of that land were the one bright spot in the novel and along with my boredom probably the only thing that kept me reading. You name and it and it's not been done very well: the writing is messy, the characters are contrived and the romance has all of the warmth of a burned out match. ...more If I could have given it 0 stars I would have. To publish this as a young adult novel is horrifying. I wouldn't read past 30 pages it was too offensive and to think it was published as content for young adults is terrible. It would be R rated as a movie. Not only was the f word used liberally throughout the few pages I read, teens were drinking, smoking and hinting at being sexually active. NOT something I would want my kids to read, or myself. I normally wouldn't dream of rating a book without If I could have given it 0 stars I would have. To publish this as a young adult novel is horrifying. I wouldn't read past 30 pages it was too offensive and to think it was published as content for young adults is terrible. It would be R rated as a movie. Not only was the f word used liberally throughout the few pages I read, teens were drinking, smoking and hinting at being sexually active. NOT something I would want my kids to read, or myself. I normally wouldn't dream of rating a book without reading more of it, but I was so appalled by what I read I couldn't go any further in the story. I just don't want to subject myself to that kind of trash posing as literature. ...more I was warned Tithe was going to be dark. To which I thought, \"Ooh, yes likee me please. DARK BOOKS ARE GREAT.\" Buuuut I have to admit, it wasn't THAT dark. After one reads books like Red Rising and An Ember in the Ashes ....ha. It takes a lot to chill me. BUT ANYWAY. I did like Tithe even though I thought it was going to be more evilly darker. Obviously there are plenty of creeptastic faeries and death everywhere and blood splatters and YEAH IT WAS QUITE GOOD AND I LIKED IT. I confess I didn't lo I was warned Tithe was going to be dark. To which I thought, \"Ooh, yes likee me please. DARK BOOKS ARE GREAT.\" Buuuut I have to admit, it wasn't THAT dark. After one reads books like Red Rising and An Ember in the Ashes ....ha. It takes a lot to chill me. BUT ANYWAY. I did like Tithe even though I thought it was going to be more evilly darker. Obviously there are plenty of creeptastic faeries and death everywhere and blood splatters and YEAH IT WAS QUITE GOOD AND I LIKED IT. I confess I didn't love it though? This was mostly because of the characters. I just wasn't a fan of any of the characters. For a quickie character breakdown: \u2022 Kaye: She's the narrator and she's just...ya know. Tough girl. Had a crappy childhood. Standoffish. Independent. Doesn't take boo from anyone. OKAY I GET IT, YOU GOT THIS. But you don't got this because you keep doing incredible stupid things. Like \"Oh there is the palace of the evil faerie queen! I'm just gonna take a quick peek.\" I don't know what Kaye was planing to see??? Faeries drinking evil tea???? Omg. So while, obviously, the book wouldn't have been interesting if Kaye hadn't been curious -- she still got other people into plenty of trouble because she was brash. And her attitude towards others just...bleh. But she was half Japanese, so yay! Diversity! \u2022 Corny : He was pretty much awesome. I liked him! But I would've liked to see him actually have character development. Although WOAH DUDE HE HAS SOME GREAT STUFF HAPPEN AT THE END AND IT WAS VERY WOAH THIS IS EXCITING AND DISTURBING . So that was fun. \u2022 Roiben : He's the faerie knight who's bound to an evil queen and he has to do bad stuff for lolz. I mean, I like the dude. BUT. I still feel a bit indifferent to him. I did like his romance with Kaye though. ...and also their names ??! Like, ughhhhh . I'm not a fan of any of their names and I found that kind of hard while reading. The plot is only half about faeries. The faeries don't really come in until 100-pages in!! 'SCUSE YOU, BUT I ORDERED A CREEPY FAERIE BOOK. Not a \"my mama don't love me\" book. The beginning is all moving around because Kaye's mother is a band member who can't keep a position. So cue alcohol and parties and copious smoking which makes me angry in books because smoking really gives you cancer omg grrr . It really started getting interesting when Kaye learned who she really was and started getting involved with Roiben...who she met when eh was shot and bleeding everywhere. OMG #shipit I also liked how the book \"fixed\" a problem and Kaye felt all triumphant and everything -- but in reality she'd really destroyed an ancient hierarchy and system. So YEAH it was bad , but the alternative could be worse . And I just like moral questions like that and chain-of-even reactions. BASICALLY I LIKE BOOKS WHERE THE ENDING IS DOOM. (Mwhahaha.) So it's not my favourite Holly Black book...sadly. But I'm still reading the next two books ASAP because I love Holly Black and I LOVE creepy faeries and I so want to see where the story is going. And I do like it!! Just in the light of Holly Black's other epic books, this one does feel weak. And Kaye was just so, ugh, unlikeable for me. And while there was blood everywhere, I didn't feel there was a lot of EMOTIONAL reactions. Just physical ones. I wanted to know how the characters felt about being tortured and whatnot. C'mon, dudes. Cry or something and I'll comfort you with chocolate cupcakes or something. ...more As a child, Kaye had faery friends; throughout her life, she has always been unusual. Now, following an barfight, Kaye and her would-be-rock star mother return to Kaye's childhood home. There, Kaye meets another faery, and discovers that her childhood friends really do exist and that she is far more unusual than she ever suspected. She soon falls into the middle of the power struggle between two rival faery courts, a struggle which could easily spill into the human world. Tithe is a mix of wonde As a child, Kaye had faery friends; throughout her life, she has always been unusual. Now, following an barfight, Kaye and her would-be-rock star mother return to Kaye's childhood home. There, Kaye meets another faery, and discovers that her childhood friends really do exist and that she is far more unusual than she ever suspected. She soon falls into the middle of the power struggle between two rival faery courts, a struggle which could easily spill into the human world. Tithe is a mix of wonderful and horrible aspects: the characters are difficult to like or identify with, and the writing style is inconsistent and immature, but the plot is realistically complex (even though it ends abruptly) and the faeries are dark, enthralling, and vividly conceived (if overdrawn). I found this book at times both frustrating and wonderful, and though it has many faults, I still recommend it for its plot and atmosphere, as well as its great potential. At the beginning of reading Tithe , the weaknesses far outweigh the strengths. Kaye, her mother, and her friends are neither likable nor identifiable\u0097Kaye's mother is a struggling rock vocalist, Kaye is a high school drop out, Janet is a superficial teenager, Corny is an unattractive gas station attendant; everyone drinks too much and smokes too much. Maybe I just lived a sheltered life, but wouldn't have identified with any of these characters as a young adult, and I still don't now as an adult. They are not likable, nor are their flaws realistic\u0097instead, they are exaggerated and simplistic. Along with difficult characterization, the writing style is inconsistent and immature, replete with adverbs, repeated gestures, and dull dialog and episodes. This is clearly a first novel, and accordingly it feels unfinished and unpolished. The book would have benefited from a rewrite, to tighten the language and unify the style. But for all of these negative qualities, Tithe remains readable and exhibits some real jewels and true potential as it goes on. The plot moves just fast enough that it is not frustrating and slow enough that it is still intriguing. There are many points where the book could have ended prematurely, wrapping up the plot into a nice and neat package; Black, however, rejects these endings, instead introducing new complications to build a plot that is is political, complex, and ongoing. The unfortunate effect of the ongoing story is that the book has an indistinct ending\u0097although not a cliffhanger, it seems arbitrary and incomplete. On the whole, however, the complex plot fits the book's wide political premise and makes for a satisfying read. The faeries are equally satisfying: they are otherworldly, diverse, and carefully imagined. Some of the dark faeries are overdrawn and excessively macabre, but on the whole the faeries are the highlight of the text. Black's imagination is lively and wide; her descriptions (in particular Kaye's transformation) shine off of the page in vivid language that is at once ethereal and tactile. I found this to be an alternately frustrating and delightful book. The characters disappointed me, the writing style annoyed me, but whenever I became too frustrated, another new aspect would shine: a banquet scene in a faery court, a new plot development, some measure of character growth. So while I can't rate this book very highly on account of its many faults, I do recommend it. Less critical readers may not find it so frustrating as I did; no matter the reader, the magic and imagination make this a book worth reading. There is great potential here, and where it is realized, Tithe is a truly enjoyable read. I look forward to reading more of Black's published work\u0097I expect that as she matured as a writer, her books became more readable and less frustrating. ...more So, I originally read this book in middle school and didn't like it at the time. I had written another, very negative review of this book years ago, and it had gathered some pretty nasty comments. To be fair, my review was probably not very constructive or well-written. But I thought, \"I don't know, maybe I missed something. Maybe these people are right, and I am blind and stupid for not liking this book.\" After a while, I also figured maybe I'd been too young the first time I read it, since it So, I originally read this book in middle school and didn't like it at the time. I had written another, very negative review of this book years ago, and it had gathered some pretty nasty comments. To be fair, my review was probably not very constructive or well-written. But I thought, \"I don't know, maybe I missed something. Maybe these people are right, and I am blind and stupid for not liking this book.\" After a while, I also figured maybe I'd been too young the first time I read it, since it does have some pretty adult content. This was recently a group read in a Goodreads group I'm in, and I decided I'd go ahead and give it another try. And well ... sorry, I have to say my original opinion of this book still stands. This book is just not for me. That said: the second time around, I had a little more appreciation for certain aspects of the book. Particularly, I liked the mythology aspect because I'm a sucker for mythology. I've also recently become more interested in Celtic faerie myths, so I enjoyed seeing the influences there. There's some pretty creepy creatures in this book (especially the kelpie *shudders*). Unfortunately, almost every other aspect of this book falls flat for me. Firstly, it annoys me how teenagers are portrayed in this book. They're all portrayed as like, vapid Hot Topic trash who do nothing but drink, smoke, party, shoplift, and say \"fuck\" every other word. The characters are barely distinguishable from each other and I couldn't connect with any of them. I wish there'd been more effort in giving them distinct personalities, and that their characterization didn't rely so heavily on stereotypes. Not much happens. There are a few scenes I found exciting, but for the most part I felt like this book was pretty uneventful. I think I would've preferred if more of the story was dedicated to exploring the faerie world and spent less time in the \"real\" world. The romance made me uncomfortable. A lot of things bothered me about the relationship between Kaye and Roiben. First of all, it's insta-love. They meet once and already they're apparently head-over-heels for each other. But what bothers me more is that the relationship verges on abusive. (view spoiler) [There are two things in particular that make me a bit queasy. Firstly, that part in the diner when Roiben throws Kaye to the floor and literally kisses her ass in front of everyone. I complained about this part in my original review and got a bunch of comments defending this, like, \"but he was under a spell!!! so it's okay!\" Ehhhh sorry but ... nope, I still hate it. It's just too reminiscent of real-life abuse for me to feel like I can excuse it\u2013\u2013and the fact that he does it so violently (even though he was ~just obeying her command~) and that he doesn't ever properly apologize for it (from what I recall anyway) ... yeah, it was really shitty. But you know, I really don't like the way Kaye treats Roiben, either. The other main thing that bothered me is when Kaye commands Roiben to kiss her just because she knows she can get him to do whatever she wants. That is really disgusting and it's sexual assault . Making someone kiss you against their will, without their consent, even if it's someone who might be romantically interested in you ... um yeah that is sexual harassment, kids. Just so you know. ... Also don't get me started on the thing with Kenny. Just ... ugh. Kaye is really gross and manipulative. (hide spoiler) ] Kaye is just ... unlikable. I couldn't find any reason why I should sympathize with her, honestly. Literally in the first paragraph of the book, she's putting cigarette ash in her mom's drink just to see if her mom will drink it\u2013\u2013so charming! And as I said in that spoiler above, she's often manipulative in a way that made me really lose respect for her. (view spoiler) [I realize Kenny is a creep and an asshole, but I still was weirded out by how Kaye dealt with him once she realized he was ~under her spell~ or whatever. She essentially just messes with him because she knows she can, which is fucked up. And since she does basically the same thing to Roiben, it makes her seem like a pretty shitty person. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [Also, her best friend gets murdered by a kelpie and she seems to have zero reaction?? She like drags Janet's body out of the ocean and is just like \"well this sucks\" and she seems to have basically forgotten about it like two days later. So ... yeah, some friend she is. (hide spoiler) ] Otherwise, I don't have much to say about this book. I was willing to give it a second chance, but it still disappointed me this time. I think the concept had some potential, and I liked the creepy faerie mythology. Besides that, though, nothing really connected with me. ...more \"<+++>Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale</+++>\" is about sixteen year old <---C>Kaye Fierch</---C>, a girl who has been moving around with her single mother for her entire life. At a young age she has been able to see and interact with these things called faeries, although no one believed her. Then one day, she enchants a boy into falling in love with her and makes a broken, splintered horse move. Soon after that event she meets a young faerie night named Roiben, and that is just the start of her faerie adventure. Hm... okay, \"<+++>Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale</+++>\" is about sixteen year old Kaye Fierch, a girl who has been moving around with her single mother for her entire life. At a young age she has been able to see and interact with these things called faeries, although no one believed her. Then one day, she enchants a boy into falling in love with her and makes a broken, splintered horse move. Soon after that event she meets a young faerie night named Roiben, and that is just the start of her faerie adventure. Hm... okay, the reason I picked up this book was because I heard that it had a gay side character. On that note, this character, Corny, was absolutely underdeveloped. In fact, almost all of the side characters were underdeveloped, I felt like I didn't know a single thing about any of them. This book also feels like it moves from event to event, but not with the grace or ability that a good author has to string her storyline together. There were some scenes that were just plain difficult to read. Some examples are when Kaye told Robien to \"kiss her ass\", and Robien actually did because he was \"bound\" to her. If Robien was bound to do what Kaye demanded of him, then I think Robien would've understood that what Kaye demanded of him wasn't the literal sense of what she said, but the emotional sense. Also, there was a scene where Corny is in the underground faerie hill with this strange prince character, and then Corny is tortured. Like, he is completely helpless and starts eating everything he can get his hands on. A rotten apple. The dirt on the ground. And some ants. For Pete's sake, when I read that, I thought I was going to be sick. And what's even weirder is that NO ONE even CARED about what happened to him. In fact, the only thing in the book that acknowledges that the event occurred is when Corny starts blindly stabbing his tormentor to death. Which was a total \"huh?\" moment to me. This is the first book I have deemed worthy of one star. Totally disappointing. ...more I ended up reading this book by accident. It was recommended to my 14 year old, Gini. She began the book and then brought it to me saying that she didn't feel it was appropriate for kids and that she, personally, had no interest in a heroine who consistently made such poor life choices. Well! I decided to read it to see what the deal was. This book was recommended for kids 14 and up and Gini has read books that were definitely adult reading level and she LOVES faery. The problem with this book f I ended up reading this book by accident. It was recommended to my 14 year old, Gini. She began the book and then brought it to me saying that she didn't feel it was appropriate for kids and that she, personally, had no interest in a heroine who consistently made such poor life choices. Well! I decided to read it to see what the deal was. This book was recommended for kids 14 and up and Gini has read books that were definitely adult reading level and she LOVES faery. The problem with this book for Gini (and I am proud of her for it) is that the girl, Kaye, who is the main character, as well as her friends, smoke, drink, sneak around, fool around, and generally make all the choices that parents hope their children will avoid. Gini loves books and movies with really strong female characters. Ultraviolet, Alias, Charmed, Dragonlance, Bones and Sarah Connor Chronicles are some of her favorites. She just really didn't like the idea that a 16 year old who was so \"messed up\" and misguided would be turned into a heroine of faery. She appreciates that the best heroines have flaws to overcome but this just didn't work for her. Now! All that that being said, I finished the book and for an adult with the grace of age and perspective, this book is a fun, light read. This poor kid who has pretty much raised herself and her mother could very well end up the same dead-end mess that her mother has but she doesn't. She discovers something very special within herself. She ends up showing a lot of character and courage. The teens dealt with in the book are not the teens that I have guided my girls to become or to identify with but those kids are out there and they have the same potential and beauty within them. It was really cool to talk to Gini about why she didn't like this character and how the character developed without requiring her to read something she objected to and without glorifying the type of kid portrayed in the book. This is just my opinion folks so take it for what it is worth to you! I would not have this book in the hands of anyone under 16 and even at 16, my girls would probably not read this type of material if for no other reason than the frequency of the \"f\" word which we don't appreciate in our home, hearts or heads and the underage drinking and sexuality. But if you do have a child who wants to read it and you don't like to censor your child's reading (and I do very little of that, believe it or not - I teach them the principles and let them apply them, which Gini did very well) then this book is a good opportunity to talk about the choices the kids in the book make. Why it may or may not be a good idea for an author to portray a young person with such poor judgement as a hero or heroine (I thought it was a great idea!) and how people can turn their lives around no matter how dismal and dead-end they seem to be. ...more 3.25 stars Half the fun's in lies we tell ourselves. My favorite thing about faerie books is always their eerie atmosphere. I don't mind gory horror, but what I truly love is that creepy feeling I get with mysterious and intriguing books like this one. And while Tithe did not leave me in awe, it was still very well-written, and it kept me hooked from beginning to end. Holly Black is one of my favorite fantasy authors. She wrote The Curse Workers trilogy, my favorite urban fantasy series of all t 3.25 stars Half the fun's in lies we tell ourselves. My favorite thing about faerie books is always their eerie atmosphere. I don't mind gory horror, but what I truly love is that creepy feeling I get with mysterious and intriguing books like this one. And while Tithe did not leave me in awe, it was still very well-written, and it kept me hooked from beginning to end. Holly Black is one of my favorite fantasy authors. She wrote The Curse Workers trilogy, my favorite urban fantasy series of all time, but I also knew she had written this book twelve years ago, and I've always thought that most (not all) authors are a bit like wine: they get better as time passes. So I was not expecting anything nearly as good as The Curse Workers, but this book still managed to surprise me. It surely had a lot of clich\u00e9s of the genre - some insta-love, a quirky sidekick like Corny (even though his storyline quickly took an unexpected darker turn) and mostly forgettable secondary characters. However, not only the writing was very good (there were a couple of metaphors that really took my breath away), but this book was dark. Extremely dark for a YA book. In fact, I would not recommend it to younger teens at all, but I appreciated this new kind of perspective immensely. Teenagers in this book are not the goody two-shoes we're used to, the usual perfect kids that never do anything wrong. These teenagers drink, smoke, party and have sex. They have difficult relationships with their families and with each other, they swear and they lie, and they usually result much more realistic than your average YA characters. I will soon read the second and third book in the series, because this was an interesting start and, although somehow flawed, it was also something new and unexpected that I want to see more of. The plot may be a bit basic, but Holly's portrayal of the fae world is not. I was particularly impressed by the way she described the Unseelie Court, a place of viciousness and pleasure and pain - and its inhabitants weren't any different. It was intriguing, and dangerous. They all were. As for the characters, I did not care too much for any of them, but I was fascinated by the unconventional main character, Kaye, and her dysfunctional family, and I can't wait to know what's going to happen to Corny, Kaye's human friend who forgot common sense and delved a little too deep into the faerie courts. Tithe was a good book, and despite the things I did not like about it, it was definitely not average. And even though it's one of Holly's early works, I know she will still somehow manage to surprise me. ...more Summary: comfortably predictable storyline with some huge plot holes, but more than fun enough to read. Just make sure it doesn't put off Weetzie Bat or other masterpieces of the YA genre. This book is marred by one major flaw that doesn't affect most of the YA set: bad things happen--both on- and off-stage--to sympathetic characters around our protagonist and no one cares. Several \"best friend\" character die, the two mothers are left bereft of their children, a small child is abandoned to the f Summary: comfortably predictable storyline with some huge plot holes, but more than fun enough to read. Just make sure it doesn't put off Weetzie Bat or other masterpieces of the YA genre. This book is marred by one major flaw that doesn't affect most of the YA set: bad things happen--both on- and off-stage--to sympathetic characters around our protagonist and no one cares. Several \"best friend\" character die, the two mothers are left bereft of their children, a small child is abandoned to the faeries, and the nearby world is beset by death and destruction, but it doesn't affect the main, teen-aged protagonist and we only follow her pursuit of a dangerous older man who doesn't want to use her naivety no matter how much she tries to make him. His self-recriminations--even while he's killing innocents--for making out with her while she was drunk make for a great character. In addition, the important and interesting family drama with her wanna-be rocker mom and her controlling and narrow-minded grandmother is left not only unresolved, but probably unresolvable. Fortunately, the faerie plotline is well handled, if 100% comfort-food, even for the YA crowd. Our protagonist is asked to play the role of the sacrifice victim in a faerie sacrifice taken straight from Tam Lin, with the promise that her good faerie friends will save her at the end and reveal thats the bad faeries had broken the rules. Of course, \"good\" and \"bad\" will intermingle and swap around throughout the course of the story (as is appropriate in a faerie tale) and she has to look after herself and mis-trust her lifelong faerie friends. She does a passable job of wising up, if not growing up, and the action-y scenes are quite fun as her wanna-be beau fights off orders to kill her, she tries to rescue her almost-friend from a dangerous lover, and both the supposedly good and definitely bad faeries line up to use her for their political ends even if it means killing her. So it's a fun read, but don't expect any of the usual YA moral or character growth. Pure entertaining fluff. ...more Kaye has always been different. She\u2019s Japanese and a natural blond. She stopped going to school when she was fourteen because her musician mother kept them moving around. But what made the other kids really back away were the stories about her friends Gristle, Spike, and Lutie-loo. Everyone thought they were imaginary because no one besides Kaye could see these creatures. That\u2019s because Kaye\u2019s friends were part of the world of Faery. Kaye is dragged farther into this dangerous world when she save Kaye has always been different. She\u2019s Japanese and a natural blond. She stopped going to school when she was fourteen because her musician mother kept them moving around. But what made the other kids really back away were the stories about her friends Gristle, Spike, and Lutie-loo. Everyone thought they were imaginary because no one besides Kaye could see these creatures. That\u2019s because Kaye\u2019s friends were part of the world of Faery. Kaye is dragged farther into this dangerous world when she saves a dying faerie named Roiben. After this encounter, she meets up with her old friend Lutie and Spike only to find out that her other friend Gristle has been murdered by the faerie she saved earlier, Roiben. Her friend then bring her into the plot to let the solitary fey be free for seven years: Kaye has to break the tithe, a ritual in which a mortal is sacrificed for the Unseelie Court. And with that, she is in the middle of a war between that the two powerful faerie courts. Holly Black presents a fantastical faerie world similar to the one in Melissa Marr\u2019s Wicked Lovely, yet it is difficult to compare the two. Both Kaye and Aislinn are strong-minded characters, but it is the setting and the rest of the faerie world that makes the stories so different; Kaye\u2019s is one filled with drinking and shoplifting. I appreciated how Kaye is unapologetic for who she is and found it amusing that Kaye didn\u2019t know her own cleverness. I also found Kaye and Roiben\u2019s relationship extremely romantic. I highly recommend this exciting story, especially for fans of other faerie stories. I definitely look forward to reading more of Black\u2019s faerie novels. reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com ...more i couldn't finish this book and i WON'T finish it. it is horribly stupid and swears like 10 times a page. it is all about cigarettes, drinking, and freakky people in dark alleys. WHAT THE HECK?! i couldn't believe what was happening in the book; it was disgusting!! ew! ew! i learned a lesson from this book: DON'T JUDGE A BOOK BY ITS COVER! I find it rather hard to choose what type of review I would like to write, positive or negative. I suppose mine will be a bit of both. One the one hand, I have to give Holly Black credit for attempting to write characters that do not fall within the norm. Not everyone is of a certain race, hair color, eye color, personality type, etc. and it is refreshing to read something other than a Mary Jane. I can also appreciate any author who is daring enough to include sex, cussing, and drugs into their I find it rather hard to choose what type of review I would like to write, positive or negative. I suppose mine will be a bit of both. One the one hand, I have to give Holly Black credit for attempting to write characters that do not fall within the norm. Not everyone is of a certain race, hair color, eye color, personality type, etc. and it is refreshing to read something other than a Mary Jane. I can also appreciate any author who is daring enough to include sex, cussing, and drugs into their story. What teenager hasn't partaken in at least one of the three aforementioned activities? However, despite Black's attempt to create a relatable and realistic character, I felt that Black made Kaye rather unidentifiable. She may not have been an All American do gooder, but she certainly fell within a stereotype, just not a very flattering one. She came across as a redneck/goth hybrid if such a thing were possible. She certainly was not anyone I would look up to or befriend. Is this really the kind of woman any of us would strive to be? One that chain smokes, steals, dresses like a street walker, and messes around with her best friend's loser boyfriend? Also, while I can appreciate a book that attempts a unique structure, the writing style was hard to enjoy. It was disjointed and I found myself having to reread several passages in order to make sense of what they were trying to convey. Lastly, Did anyone else find the love between Kaye and Roiben hard to swallow? I get that she thought he was cute, but looks aside, why is Kaye attracted to him exactly? More importantly, why is he attracted to her? Black did a poor job of making their love believable. All in all, the story made for an entertaining read, but it certainly did not live up to the hype. ...more Hidden Gem buddy re/read with the YA & Beyond crew! I find it highly intriguing how John Milton & Paradise Lost show up in this book right when I'm starting Traitor Angels . Just a thought. It went fast, but I'm glad I decided to reread this. I blew through nearly half of it in two hours last night and wrapped up the rest this afternoon -- I think it's a testament to Holly Black's skill that even though I flew through this book I was never bored and skimmed minimally. I liked how the world Hidden Gem buddy re/read with the YA & Beyond crew! I find it highly intriguing how John Milton & Paradise Lost show up in this book right when I'm starting Traitor Angels . Just a thought. It went fast, but I'm glad I decided to reread this. I blew through nearly half of it in two hours last night and wrapped up the rest this afternoon -- I think it's a testament to Holly Black's skill that even though I flew through this book I was never bored and skimmed minimally. I liked how the world of Faery wasn't necessarily the happy, pretty world we all assume a world of sprites and pixies to be like -- there was darkness and danger and even the characters Kaye thought she knew turned out to be the opposite. And Roiben is swoon-worthy. The last time I read this was in high school and he was sexy then too; I'm glad this book held up over the years. ...more Romantic without being too soft and edgy without being too harsh, Holly Black's first entry effortlessly draws you into the alluring and alternately horrifying world of the fey. When I first began reading Tithe , I was afraid that Kaye's background/lifestyle would be too gimmicky, but Black gives her just enough depth to be likable (though I personally never felt intimately connected to her). Corny, on the other hand, is such an odd combination of qualities that I found him very believable and mor Romantic without being too soft and edgy without being too harsh, Holly Black's first entry effortlessly draws you into the alluring and alternately horrifying world of the fey. When I first began reading Tithe , I was afraid that Kaye's background/lifestyle would be too gimmicky, but Black gives her just enough depth to be likable (though I personally never felt intimately connected to her). Corny, on the other hand, is such an odd combination of qualities that I found him very believable and more sympathetic, and Roiben's stoicism and inner conflict make him a deliciously imperfect hero. The plot is gritty and exciting, with fairly good pacing, if a little rushed toward the end. Adults and teens alike can enjoy this gem of a book. ...more Call me conservative, but I just can't believe this was a young adult book! There was so much swearing in it (more than most adult books) that just wasn't needed that it distracted from the plot of the book. That doesn't generally bother me...but it did with this book. Bad execution of a good idea, 1.5 stars, December 9, 2009 Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale, the first book in Holly Black's faery trilogy, introduces readers to a dark and twisted world of Faerie. Sixteen-year-old Kaye is the daughter of a rocker mom who moves from town to town before an act of violence pushes them back to New Jersey. Kaye thinks the faeries of her youth are a thing of the past, but soon, her world starts changing as she learns that she has been chosen as a sacrifice between faery co Bad execution of a good idea, 1.5 stars, December 9, 2009 Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale, the first book in Holly Black's faery trilogy, introduces readers to a dark and twisted world of Faerie. Sixteen-year-old Kaye is the daughter of a rocker mom who moves from town to town before an act of violence pushes them back to New Jersey. Kaye thinks the faeries of her youth are a thing of the past, but soon, her world starts changing as she learns that she has been chosen as a sacrifice between faery courts. Kaye must struggle to save herself, her friend, and a certain faery knight. Unfortunately, this world of Faerie is not very likeable or easy to read. First and foremost, I found the book difficult to read due to the writing style and lack of editing. The writing is unclear in many places, with disjointed sentences and weak dialogue. Transitions between scenes were abrupt, and it was sometimes difficult to gain a coherent understanding of what was happening. Though some settings were described well, the characters were not. Character development was limited, and the relationships between characters seemed weak and unimportant. As described, the love connection also didn't seem believable. Secondly, Black's world of Faerie is dark, twisted, and cruel. I don't mind darker tales; however, there needs to be a point to it. The book contains vulgarity; smoking, alcohol, and drugs; unhealthy relationships; references to violent, hurtful sex that`s enjoyed; and grisly murder and torture. I knew some of this going in, but I was surprised that none of these issues were used as a means of character development or conflict. None of the characters seemed to have any redeeming or likeable qualities. Even if a character is flawed, I want to read a book where I want to root for him/her, despite these flaws or a sordid past. In this case, I was left feeling ambivalent towards everyone. While a good concept with potential for a great tale, my negative reaction to this book was much stronger than I expected. I hope that Black brought her fans something better in the sequels, Valiant: A Modern Tale of Faerie and Ironside: A Modern Faery's Tale. ...more This modern YA fantasy novel brings in all kinds of themes, and the urban New Jersey setting made it all the more intriguing. 4 1/2 stars Tithe's inner blurb states that it is a young adult fantasy tale written by a brand new author with an exciting and imaginative voice and, for a change, the raves are true! If you're into darker edged fantasy, where the faeries are more likely to wound tender flesh than sprinkle one with faery dust, where sex, violence and various debaucheries are all part of a typical day in the faery kingdom, then do yourself a favor and buy a copy of Tithe. It's the perfect book to chase away the 4 1/2 stars Tithe's inner blurb states that it is a young adult fantasy tale written by a brand new author with an exciting and imaginative voice and, for a change, the raves are true! If you're into darker edged fantasy, where the faeries are more likely to wound tender flesh than sprinkle one with faery dust, where sex, violence and various debaucheries are all part of a typical day in the faery kingdom, then do yourself a favor and buy a copy of Tithe. It's the perfect book to chase away the mid-winter blahs. Big thanks to Preeti, my reader friend ... for bringing this deliciously dark book to my attention. Kaye is a tough, resourceful, street smart sixteen year old. As the daughter of a flighty, small-time rock singer who rarely stays in one place for more than six months at a time Kaye's life has been filled with chaos. When her mother is attacked after a performance she decides to temporarily move them back into her mother's home. As a child, Kaye loved living in her grandmother's old house and believed she had faery friends. Kaye has always been able to see things other cannot but it's not until she returns to her grandmother's home that she begins to discover exactly how different she is. In the woods Kaye meets an injured young man with pewter hair and pointy ears named Roiben who requests her help, reluctantly promises her payment and then quickly disappears. Though Kaye refuses to be anything like her worthless mother and will never pine away after a man she can't seem to get thoughts of Roiben out of her head. Soon after the weird encounter with Roiben, Kaye discovers her imaginary world is not quite so imaginary after all. After locating two of her old faery friends she discovers that she is fated to play an important (and possibly deadly) role in helping her friends remain free from the warring faery kingdoms (the Seelie and the Unseelie) who want to enslave them. Kaye's somewhat unstable world becomes even more-so when she enters into a fantasy world filled with magic and dark beauty and the irresistible but terribly confusing dark knight named Roiben who may or may have not killed one of her friends. Tithe is a real page-turner. I especially enjoyed its bleak, but never overwhelmingly depressing, look at life from a jaded sixteen year old point of view. Even before Kaye discovers the world of faery her world isn't that of your typical teenager. Because of her upbringing and lack of parental support she's got an edge about her that makes her refreshingly interesting. She smokes, talks tough, and holds her own against the flakey, ineffective adults and self-absorbed teens that inhabit her world. Though she's self-reliant and insightful she's still a teenager prone to emotion, moments of selfishness and wicked thoughts of revenge. Her faults, as well as her strengths, are the reason I enjoyed her character so much. Her conflicted feelings for Roiben -- is he tortured hero or cold-hearted fiend? -- are also another fascinating aspect of the story. Their emerging romance manages to be sensual, touching and anything but the same-old, same-old. If you're tired of angelic, nauseatingly good heroes and heroines don't worry because you won't find any here! Though I enjoyed this book thoroughly I did spot a few minor problems (sorry, I can't shut off the nitpicker inside me). With the exception of Kaye, nearly all of the secondary characters aren't given enough space to become very well defined. This is one case where I think a longer book may have made for a near perfect book (and I almost never say such things). Kaye's troubled friend Corny and especially Roiben would've benefited from more space to become fully fleshed out characters. I guess we can hold out hope for a prequel all about Roiben. There is also some troublesome dialogue here and there that needed a little tweaking. At times I felt like I'd walked in on the middle of a conversation and missed a sentence or two somewhere along the way. Other times I felt like the characters must be reading each others minds because their dialogue made little sense to me. Despite this the story moves very quickly, is imaginative, entertaining and I wish it hadn't had to end quite so soon. I cannot wait to see what author Holly Black comes up with next. With its adult language, sexuality, violence and alcohol consumption \"Tithe\" reads more like an adult novel featuring young protagonists and because of this I'd recommend it for the \"older\" young adult ... ...more I was really looking forward to this book, despite the mixed reviews, and I wasn't disappointed. Black created a wonderful and gritty world. I know some reviewers have complained that Kaye and her life were unrelatable - but that's okay. Not everyone's life is perfect, and some teens do cuss and drink and dabble in drugs. (It's got the same dark quality as Melissa Marr's books - more favorites of mine.) I actually think that made her more interesting and realistic. Kaye's transformation into the I was really looking forward to this book, despite the mixed reviews, and I wasn't disappointed. Black created a wonderful and gritty world. I know some reviewers have complained that Kaye and her life were unrelatable - but that's okay. Not everyone's life is perfect, and some teens do cuss and drink and dabble in drugs. (It's got the same dark quality as Melissa Marr's books - more favorites of mine.) I actually think that made her more interesting and realistic. Kaye's transformation into the world of faery was so wonderfully done. Black did a great job of describing it so that you could really visualize it. She also created strong supporting characters. I loved Corny and think it's great that she created a homosexual teen that wasn't a stereotype and yet felt no need to be preachy. He was just another character who happened to be gay. Roiben was wonderful as well. I loved his back story and how it all played out in regard to the overall story line. All in all, a strong start to a promising series. ...more I really did not expect to enjoy this book. I thought it was going to be really lame, but I was pleasantly surprised. I checked it out from the library one afternoon and finished it that day. I found myself feeling like Kaye's friend, sympathizing with her while she lusted after Roiben (a trait I normally cannot stand in a female protagonist, but because she had a personality and Roiben was, well, very attractive, I found it really compelling). My favorite part was when she mentioned shounen-ai . I really did not expect to enjoy this book. I thought it was going to be really lame, but I was pleasantly surprised. I checked it out from the library one afternoon and finished it that day. I found myself feeling like Kaye's friend, sympathizing with her while she lusted after Roiben (a trait I normally cannot stand in a female protagonist, but because she had a personality and Roiben was, well, very attractive, I found it really compelling). My favorite part was when she mentioned shounen-ai . I laughed aloud. I think it's the fandom geekry that makes me like this book so much. Without it, the story's okay, but with it, it has an extra depth of shameless awesome. ...more Any book that becomes hyped up to the point of legend is a bit nerve-wracking to read. If it's great then, well, all as expected. If it's bad, the let-down is disproportionately huge. And if it's neither? Even worse - if it's... both? How to respond?! For me, Tithe is one of those super-hyped books that I expected to be utterly perfect and instead left me feeling totally ambivalent towards. Parts were wonderful, deliciously dark faerie fantasy. Other bits I did not care for at all . \"Corny\" was on Any book that becomes hyped up to the point of legend is a bit nerve-wracking to read. If it's great then, well, all as expected. If it's bad, the let-down is disproportionately huge. And if it's neither? Even worse - if it's... both? How to respond?! For me, Tithe is one of those super-hyped books that I expected to be utterly perfect and instead left me feeling totally ambivalent towards. Parts were wonderful, deliciously dark faerie fantasy. Other bits I did not care for at all . \"Corny\" was one such part - character being the more correct statement I suppose. He felt annoying and unnecessary. For the most part, a lot was just plain weird . Not only weird in the expected sense, with odd faery creatures (of which there are plenty, I assure you) but rather weird in the pacing, in the unexpected deaths of some and changes in others, in the missed explanations that suddenly make sense fifty pages later, leaving you reeling in confusion in the meantime. Weirdly enough, I enjoyed it. There was no crushing disappointment as the long awaited read turned into a nightmare of bad grammar, bad plot and awful characters, as can happen sometimes. Simply a sigh as this turned out to not be totally perfect, as I'd naively hoped. Having loved the Spiderwick Chronicles as a child, this imperfection is nowhere near enough to put me off the writing of the wonderful Holly Black . It simply means I will not be rushing out for the sequel with desperate addictive need as I'd anticipated. (I will, however, be happily reading Ironside in the nearish future. Just to clarify.) Charles de Lint , I think you've spoiled me for contemporary faery stories. ...more The best thing about this book was by far the poetic style; the phrasing and descriptions were beautifully atmospheric and generally readable. As a teenager, I must say I found the excessive swearing, violence, and sexual references a relief; the teen characters were all the more relatable for the omnipresent language and innuendo. Holly Black definitely remembers how teens think. I don't care if it was just there for the shock value; I rather enjoyed reading a book that wasn't (unintentionally) The best thing about this book was by far the poetic style; the phrasing and descriptions were beautifully atmospheric and generally readable. As a teenager, I must say I found the excessive swearing, violence, and sexual references a relief; the teen characters were all the more relatable for the omnipresent language and innuendo. Holly Black definitely remembers how teens think. I don't care if it was just there for the shock value; I rather enjoyed reading a book that wasn't (unintentionally) tame. Also, the portrayal of Faerie is refreshingly in-depth and suitably dark; this book actually inspired me to do some of my own mythology research. This book's main flaw, in my opinion, was that certain characters and relationships were underdeveloped. I would have loved to see more of the histories of Roiben, Nephamael, and even Nicnevin, and more of Kaye's relationship with her mother and grandmother. Overall, though, this is a highly entertaining young adult novel. ...more DNF Wow...three words sum this book up: purple cat suit. Yes, in between the obscene amount of swearing, sex, and drug use in just the first few pages of this book, there is also, no joke, a girl who actually wants to wear a purple cat suit. At this point in the book, I realized that this was not the book for me, or for anyone who had actually read a good book for once in their lives. There was no redeeming quality to this book. The plot is laughable and confusing. The characters are annoying and flat Wow...three words sum this book up: purple cat suit. Yes, in between the obscene amount of swearing, sex, and drug use in just the first few pages of this book, there is also, no joke, a girl who actually wants to wear a purple cat suit. At this point in the book, I realized that this was not the book for me, or for anyone who had actually read a good book for once in their lives. There was no redeeming quality to this book. The plot is laughable and confusing. The characters are annoying and flat. If I truly thought that young adults acted like the characters in this story, I would forsake society and head to the lonely mountains of the Yukon. Any author who glorifies sex, drug use, and purple cat suits is at best irresponsible, at worst, criminal. Am I being dramatic? Of course. But I just read garbage. You would want to be dramatic and drown out the garbage too. I see that many like this book. This isn't a surprise. The world is full of idiots. However, please add my review to the several other scathing reviews I know are out there. ...more Tithe is a difficult book for me to rate and review. While reading this, I couldn't help but feel that I would have had a much more enthusiastic reaction to it had I read it when it was first published. But now, nine years later, protagonist Kaye comes off as slightly Mary Sue and Tithe doesn't quite stand up to some other YA books with a urban fantasy/paranormal twist. Furthermore, this book involved a lot of older teen issues (such as drinking, sexuality, skipping school) yet the fantasy aspec Tithe is a difficult book for me to rate and review. While reading this, I couldn't help but feel that I would have had a much more enthusiastic reaction to it had I read it when it was first published. But now, nine years later, protagonist Kaye comes off as slightly Mary Sue and Tithe doesn't quite stand up to some other YA books with a urban fantasy/paranormal twist. Furthermore, this book involved a lot of older teen issues (such as drinking, sexuality, skipping school) yet the fantasy aspect seemed almost as if it were written for a younger audience. But then again, perhaps this was mind blowing when first released? Again, I can't help but feel that my reading experience would have been so much different had I read this years ago. Or had I read it as a teen myself. (Granted, this book didn't exist then ;)) I'll definitely continue reading Holly Black, but not sure that I'll continue with this series. ...more Being a huge fan of the Spiderwick Chronicles, I was rather delighted to find that Holly Black had put out some books of her own. I decided to devour Tithe first--and let's just say I got food poisoning. The story is hardly inviting, even from the beginning. I continued to read on, still slightly interested to see where it was going. I kept praying for it to get better. Unfortunately, it never did. What I ended up reading felt like the outline for an R-rated Barbie Fairy Princess movie. In short, Being a huge fan of the Spiderwick Chronicles, I was rather delighted to find that Holly Black had put out some books of her own. I decided to devour Tithe first--and let's just say I got food poisoning. The story is hardly inviting, even from the beginning. I continued to read on, still slightly interested to see where it was going. I kept praying for it to get better. Unfortunately, it never did. What I ended up reading felt like the outline for an R-rated Barbie Fairy Princess movie. In short, not entirely original and completely cliche. The characters are rather hard to relate to, in my opinion, and there's just none of the charm and whimsy seen in the Spiderwick series. Tithe is certainly one of the last books I would recommend when looking for a \"modern day faerie tale.\" ...more I used to be ridiculously anti-social at family parties and hide out with this book. TITHE was so formative for me as a writer. Unapologetic and gorgeous. TITHE tore off the wings of fairytales and gave them fangs, claws and thorns. I wanted to be Kaye so badly I'd sometimes wander around in my backyard looking for a wounded elf prince. Sadly, no paranormal paramour for me. Although I did date a boy with werewolf sideburns. (I still am, but his sideburns have lost their lycanthropic enthusiasm).", "Title": "Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale"},
