{"Comments": "I'm so obsessed with this series right now. I can't put it down, not even for just one second. I have tons of things to do and I just keep postponing them so I can keep reading it. In this installment we get to (FINALLY) read about Jaime and Jeremy. I had been dying to read this book as everybody kept telling me it was the best in the series so far and I just needed to get to it fast. Now I only can say that I am devastated I gt through it so fat, but it was so good that I just could not control I'm so obsessed with this series right now. I can't put it down, not even for just one second. I have tons of things to do and I just keep postponing them so I can keep reading it. In this installment we get to (FINALLY) read about Jaime and Jeremy. I had been dying to read this book as everybody kept telling me it was the best in the series so far and I just needed to get to it fast. Now I only can say that I am devastated I gt through it so fat, but it was so good that I just could not control myself,lol. I had been wanting to know more about Jeremy since book 1 so once I got to this book I was so excited I could not control it and Jaime ended up being a terrific heroine, who would have thought there was so much more about her we did not know? But there's so much more about each of the books in this series than the heroes and heroines... It's all about this amazing new world the author has created. The way she describes all the species and to get to read about them all in a same series... there are no words to explain how much I love this series. If you have not read it yet, you must. ...more This is the seventh in Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series, and this time we get to experience the action through Jamie Vegas' eyes. While filming for a tv show, Jamie finds out that the garden of the house were the filming takes place seems to be inhabitated by child ghosts. As the theory of human sacrifice for magical power gets further unraveled, Jamie needs all the help she can get. This book can be read as a stand alone but readers might be confused by all the names brought up, because This is the seventh in Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series, and this time we get to experience the action through Jamie Vegas' eyes. While filming for a tv show, Jamie finds out that the garden of the house were the filming takes place seems to be inhabitated by child ghosts. As the theory of human sacrifice for magical power gets further unraveled, Jamie needs all the help she can get. This book can be read as a stand alone but readers might be confused by all the names brought up, because we see a lot different characters from Armstrong's world: Paige, Lucas, Savannah, Eve, Kristof, Hope, Karl and ofcourse: Jeremy. Jamie has been infatuated with Jeremy for four years and it's really funny to see how the professional flirter turns into a 14 year old girl around the werewolf Alpha. The reason I like Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series is because we see her world from so many different perspectives. Granted: not every main character has the same depth or attraction. Elena is my favorite but a big reason behind that was the angst between her and Clay. I loved Eve Levine because of her humor and big mouth, while her relationship with Kristof and her need for Savannah portrayed her vulnerable side. Jamie is a show girl who has tried to turn an unhappy life with an unloving and demanding mother in a meaningful and purposeful existence. She has strong powers but these do not always come handy in battle. This makes Jamie seem like the muddler who is always in need for protection. This book shows however, that Jamie is more than capable of handling her own. A very good, entertaining and solid read by <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A>. ...more WrensReads Review For some reason I feel like I would love being able to talk to ghost. I know \"well if you actually had that power you'd hate it\" or \"well ghost don't exist\" blah blah blah. I'm talking about a theoretical thing here. Just being able to speak to someone from a different time period would be so enlightening. But then you have the \"never ever being alone\" and probably perves watching you change...<---F> Ugh never mind</---F>. Jaime makes it look livable and cool but also you can see the damage WrensReads Review For some reason I feel like I would love being able to talk to ghost. I know \"well if you actually had that power you'd hate it\" or \"well ghost don't exist\" blah blah blah. I'm talking about a theoretical thing here. Just being able to speak to someone from a different time period would be so enlightening. But then you have the \"never ever being alone\" and probably perves watching you change... Ugh never mind. Jaime makes it look livable and cool but also you can see the damage it does to her. You can't help all the lost souls. You also can't punch a ghost in the face when they are being rude or gross. But at least she can converse with them. Until she can't. On a set for her big film break as a spiritualist (when in reality she actually is a necromancer,<---M> good cover job lady)</---M>, Jaime feels a pinch. And a poke. And a grab. But she doesn't see anything. She hears whisper-less words. But still nothing. Her crush of four years comes in handy as she tries to figure out what exactly is going on. And so does a chaos-lover half demon (and our next narrator). Kelley Armstrong's story telling picks up in this new heroine book in a glorious series of supernatural ladies. The writing is glorious. This book is 100%. Double the love from the last three. Probably my favorite since Stolen or Bitten. Jaime is marvelous. I wish there were more books with her in the lead. Necromancers are cool to read about. This book? WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more I can talk to dead people. <---C>Jaime Vegas</---C> is a true necromancer. She can raise the dead if she has to. She can see and talk to ghosts. Only problem is, she can\u2019t control seeing them. Constantly, everywhere, they see her, she pretends not to see them. Sure, she can deliver a message for them, but she can\u2019t figure out why they\u2019re dead, who killed them, what killed them, and would prefer not to even try. Now part of the interracial council, Jaime gives her feedback when it\u2019s needed and wanted. However, I can talk to dead people. Jaime Vegas is a true necromancer. She can raise the dead if she has to. She can see and talk to ghosts. Only problem is, she can\u2019t control seeing them. Constantly, everywhere, they see her, she pretends not to see them. Sure, she can deliver a message for them, but she can\u2019t figure out why they\u2019re dead, who killed them, what killed them, and would prefer not to even try. Now part of the interracial council, Jaime gives her feedback when it\u2019s needed and wanted. However, she still doesn\u2019t think they take her as seriously as she\u2019d like them to. Jeremy is a werewolf, the pack\u2019s Alpha. As the Alpha, he\u2019s constantly being protected, bodyguard and otherwise, for no one in the pack wants to lose him, and those not part of the pack wants to see him dead. This time he meets up with Jaime without protection, just \u2018for a visit\u2019. While he\u2019s slow at getting there, he wants her. He just doesn\u2019t want to put the risks on her of what a pack Alpha means; the constant need to be protected, always at risk, for the easiest way to get to Jeremy would be through Jaime. But she\u2019s been wanting him since they met, and this time Jaime is determined to get him. On the set of an anticipated TV show, something strange happens. Seems ghosts are trying to get her attention, but she can\u2019t see them. She talks to them, but they don\u2019t seem to understand or hear her. And other than indistinguishable whispers, she can\u2019t understand them either. With the help of mostly Eve, Kristof, Hope, Jeremy and Karl, they delve into the mystery, unable to understand why these ghosts are unlike those she\u2019s ever encountered and wanting to lay them to rest. With a little sleuthing, they discover the ghosts are those of children, ghosts who\u2019s energy has been taken away, making them unable to appear in corporeal form, unable to be heard even by Eve and Kristof. But finding out who and why is enough to shock everyone. I liked the mystery involved in this one. I\u2019d have never guessed - not true, LOL! I got an inkling of the who, just not quite the why and how. It was interesting to see how the plot worked out - definitely different from your usual run of the mill paranormal story. What I thought cute was how Jaime was portrayed like Daphne from the Scooby-Doo cartoon - a wimp, always the one in trouble, getting kidnapped and needing rescuing. But the courage Jaime finds to defeat them was right-on perfect. I couldn\u2019t expect better. I liked the banter between Jaime and Jeremy, especially the way she teased him. I do feel that there could have beem a little more spark between them. While it was strong, it wasn\u2019t enough. Could have used a little more \u2018oomph\u2019 between the two of them. And while the book is full of the usual: horror, action, adventure, suspense, mystery, satire, there were little inconsistencies that you catch and just let go. But I thought it was a little too neat, like it was hastily written. Too many tidy coincidences and not enough twists. And I know I\u2019m not the only one who\u2019d have loved to get more of Jaime\u2019s background. You get snippets of her past, but it\u2019s like the info barely made a dent on who Jaime is. Could\u2019ve really used more on her. Otherwise, another hit for the series. Keep \u2018em coming, Kelley! ...more I plunged into this book with ridiculously high expectations and, for once, they all were met, leaving me utterly satisfied, staring at the last sentence with a huge grin on my face. <+++>No Humans Involved</+++> is a fantastic read with engaging plot, cruel villain, fast pace, butt-kicking action, hilarious dialogue, amazing romance and lovable characters. First of all, there's Jaime and Jeremy. Really, do I even need to say more? They've had my heart since that balcony scene in Paige's book and I've someh I plunged into this book with ridiculously high expectations and, for once, they all were met, leaving me utterly satisfied, staring at the last sentence with a huge grin on my face. <+++>No Humans Involved</+++> is a fantastic read with engaging plot, cruel villain, fast pace, butt-kicking action, hilarious dialogue, amazing romance and lovable characters. First of all, there's Jaime and Jeremy. Really, do I even need to say more? They've had my heart since that balcony scene in Paige's book and I've somehow made it through all the teasers in the next books without jumping straight to their story. I adore Jaime. Simply love her to bits. She's very different from other otherworld women; she doesn't have Elena's physical strength, she doesn't have Paige's spells and she doesn't have Eve's butt-kicking abilities. All she can do is talk to ghosts which isn't really helpful in a troublesome situation, or so she thinks. And seeing as Jaime is one awe-inspiring trouble magnet in a constant need of being saved, it's no wonder she feels rather pathetic. Having a huge crush on one sexy alpha werewolf for four years is not helping at all. And then there's said alpha... The damn man is almost thrice my age yet he manages to melt me every single time he appears in the story. It's ridiculous! But if before he was only an attractive, unbelievably dense, caring gentleman able to take care of any problem, in this book he shows a whole new side and let's just say no woman can resist a man like Jeremy. Who would have thought that the owner of Stonehaven can be such a tease? Together with one naughty Ms Vegas they make quite a pair. There is nothing I dislike about them, absolutely nothing. They are adults, they are responsible, they are rational, they know the risks, they don't take chances. But maybe it's time to finally start taking them... Another great things is the appearance of some old characters and introduction of some new ones. There are sneaky peeks into Clay and Elena's parental life, there is the chaos of Cortez household, there is hilarious adorableness of Eve and Kris and there is the tantalizing new couple aka Hope and Karl. The chemistry between the two promises one very interesting, funny, witty and sarcastic book, packed with action and mystery, of course. And then there's the plot. Armstrong really did it this time. I can't say much since anything will be too spoilery, but I loved every single detail of it. The villain is ruthless and cold, the victims make my heart ache and the setting is perfect. The combination of Jaime's Hollywood life and her paranormal one really makes it all work together. Not only is the poor woman forced to work with nasty people of TV world, but she also has to solve a vicious crime involving ghosts and zombies. It can't get any more awesome, it just can't. ...more I've been waiting for Jamie's story ever since Industrial Magic . It's hard for me to say why exactly, but I'm pretty sure that it has something to do with the embarrassing crush she has on werewolf alpha, Jeremy. I mean, you expect crushes from young, inexperienced heroines, but Jamie is 44 years-old. She is sexy and she is secure in her own skin... except when it comes to Jeremy. In his presence, she turns into an adorable fool, and it is completely impossible for me not to root for her. So fina I've been waiting for Jamie's story ever since Industrial Magic . It's hard for me to say why exactly, but I'm pretty sure that it has something to do with the embarrassing crush she has on werewolf alpha, Jeremy. I mean, you expect crushes from young, inexperienced heroines, but Jamie is 44 years-old. She is sexy and she is secure in her own skin... except when it comes to Jeremy. In his presence, she turns into an adorable fool, and it is completely impossible for me not to root for her. So finally, after four years of carrying a huge torch for the man, Jamie is finally getting some alone time with Jeremy. He's coming to visit her on the set of the supernatural tv special she is working on. Jamie is holed up in a house with two other \"psychics\" to try to figure out the mysteries of Marilyn Monroe's death. Of course, the other two aren't necromancers, like Jamie, so they don't feel the strange pull coming from the garden. As Jamie opens her senses, she realizes that she has stumbled into something truly terrible... that the garden is filled with the tattered spirits of child ghosts. So she and Jeremy team up to investigate who killed the kids what dark magic has weakened their spirits. Joining the two is half-demon Hope. (She was first introduced in a short story, called \"Chaotic\" in the anthology Dates From Hell . She's sort-of a love interest for the werewolf Karl we met in Bitten . It's easy to pick up the essentials of their relationship in the course of this book, but I can imagine that without the short story, you might feel like you're missing something.) Hope uses her contacts as a tabloid journalist to help them get a pulse on the local magical community. And her participation sets her up as the narrator for the coming book. The murder storyline was very dark. But different, because the real villains here were plain old human monsters and their victims, the most fragile of us all. I don't think I've wanted to see folks die in the this series more than I wanted to see this group bite the dust. But let's get back to Jamie and Jeremy. I felt like I was going to jump out of my skin waiting for the big payoff between the two of them. And when it finally happened, I wanted more! I know Kelley Armstrong isn't an erotica author, but I could have enjoyed a few in-depth pages of smexy description, if you know what I mean. The tension has been building for ages between these two! I wasn't terribly thrilled with how they left things, though I understand it. I just hope to see more of them in the future. 4 1/2 stars. ...more Audiobook I started this series and loved it but started skipping around not reading the secondary characters' stories. So although I have the book, I listened to the library's audiobook instead. I really enjoyed it. I loved seeing how Jaime Vegas (stupid name by the way) and Jeremy took their relationship to the next level while trying to solve a mystery. Good book. I'm planning on reading listening to the rest of the series. At last! I feel like I have been waiting for a book for Jeremy and Jaime for ages! It makes me glad that I am reading this series well after they have all been published, waiting a year between installments would be torture. The last thing Jaime expected when she started doing a TV shoot in Los Angeles was to be haunted. Being a necromancer making a living as being a celebrity psychic she knows a thing or two about ghosts; however, these ghosts aren't acting as they should. Determined to get to At last! I feel like I have been waiting for a book for Jeremy and Jaime for ages! It makes me glad that I am reading this series well after they have all been published, waiting a year between installments would be torture. The last thing Jaime expected when she started doing a TV shoot in Los Angeles was to be haunted. Being a necromancer making a living as being a celebrity psychic she knows a thing or two about ghosts; however, these ghosts aren't acting as they should. Determined to get to the bottom of what is happening before more people die, Jaime starts to investigate. However, she isn't alone Jeremy, alpha of the werewolves and the man Jaime hasn't been able stop thinking about for the last few years happens to be visiting, and she hopes that protecting her isn't the only thing he will be doing. Like I said above, I feel like I have been waiting for this book forever, Jaime normally so self assured and outrageous turns in to a blushing clumsy teenager whenever Jeremy is on the scene and frankly it is adorable so I have been dying to see where this will lead. Well, it led to No Humans Involved another fantastic book from Kelley Armstrong, it was action packed and exciting with all the romance I have been waiting for. What I really liked about this book was getting to know Jeremy and Jaime better, Jeremy is the alpha of the werewolves and is almost sphinx like, you never know what he is thinking and unlike the other volatile werewolves he never loses control and keeps him thoughts and emotions close to his chest. Jaime is more outgoing, but is desperate to take a hold of her own destiny and prove that she is more than just a damsel in distress and that she can do some saving of her own. I loved seeing these two different personalities come together as Jeremy backs up Jaime as she investigates the ghosts. We are also introduced to some new characters, Hope the half demon journalist and Karl the werewolf, who although we have seen briefly in Bitten (as the villain!) we haven't seen since. I believe they are the subject of the next book, something I can't wait to get my hands on. Together they are investigating he strange ghosts that Jaime has found, which leads to some very unexpected places, including a BDSM dungeon. I enjoyed the story and the hunt as they tracked down the culprits it made for a fast paced and interesting read. Another winner in this series, I recommend that you give the series a try, it is one that needs to read in order as Kelley Armstrong does a fantastic job of building up her world through each of her books and you get the full benefits of getting to know her characters. Roll on book eight! ...more Pas grand chose \u00e0 dire sinon que c'est du Kelley Armstrong. Qu'il n'y a rien de nouveau sous le soleil, mais qu'au moins, le niveau reste le m\u00eame... Il est parfois agr\u00e9able de pouvoir de fier \u00e0 une s\u00e9rie d'urban... On sait ce que l'on attend et l'on sait ce que l'on lira... Pas de mauvaise surprise... Une lecture \"s\u00e9curit\u00e9 quoi!\" Bref j'ai aim\u00e9 que l'histoire s'int\u00e9resse \u00e0 J'aime et Jeremy et la trame de fond tient la route. Un bon moment! I thought an Otherworld story with Jaime (a real necromancer) working with fake celebrity spiritualists/necromancers would be fun. And that part of it was. The part that focused on her and Jeremy finally getting their stuff together was also fun. Ritual sacrifice of children <-----NOT fun. Seriously. Quit killing kids already. It's tiresome. I am not one of those Armstrong fans who only read Women of the Otherworld series for the werewolves. I enjoy these books for the world-building and mysteries. And thankfully, in this regard, No Humans Involved is a much better book than its fillerifick/wish fulfillment predecessor - Broken . At the center of the story is Jaime Vegas, a necromancer originally introduced in Dime Store Magic and who's been a reoccurring secondary character ever since. Jaime is in LA and participating in filming of I am not one of those Armstrong fans who only read Women of the Otherworld series for the werewolves. I enjoy these books for the world-building and mysteries. And thankfully, in this regard, No Humans Involved is a much better book than its fillerifick/wish fulfillment predecessor - Broken . At the center of the story is Jaime Vegas, a necromancer originally introduced in Dime Store Magic and who's been a reoccurring secondary character ever since. Jaime is in LA and participating in filming of a documentary about contacting Marilyn Monroe's ghost, along with two other \"supernaturalists.\" She is however diverted from the shooting by a group of ghosts she accidentally encounters on the set. These ghosts are very insistent in their desire to get Jaime to help them, but she can't figure out what they want. The ghosts are unusual and nothing like the necromancer has come across before - she can't see or communicate with them. Can it be that the ghosts are victims of some heinous paranormal experiment? Jaime has to employ the help of about every supernatural she knows to get to the bottom of this mystery. No Humans Involved is by no means a perfectly written book. It is Armstrong's habit to try to make every book of hers a sort of a reunion of all her previously introduced characters. This book is no exception - there is an obligatory revisiting of Elena, Clay, twins, Paige, Lucas, Robert, and the rest of the gang. Sometimes these cameos are vital to the story, sometimes they are unnecessary and only add some logistical confusion. In No Humans Involved this revisiting is not as jarring as in, let's say, Industrial Magic or Broken . In fact, I actually quite liked meeting Savannah and Eve again, and I am definitely ready to learn more about Hope and Karl in Personal Demon . Overall, I enjoyed this 7th installment of Women of the Otherworld. No Humans Involved is a good mix of fast-paced adventure, great mythology, mystery and smutty romance. Of course, this book is no Bitten and Jaime and Jeremy are no Elena and Clay. But if you are a fan of Armstrong's non-werewolf books such as Industrial Magic and Haunted , I expect you will enjoy this book as well. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I can't help but second guess myself every time I re-read a book. I somehow feel like I'm playing favourites and ignoring all of the other novels out there that I have yet to read once, let alone twice. Then I read the opening chapters of one of Kelley Armstrong's books and think \"screw the other books\". There's a reason why she's my favourite author and No Humans Involved reinforces that yet again. I loved watching Jeremy, the infallible alpha, stumble all over himself l Reviewed by: Rabid Reads I can't help but second guess myself every time I re-read a book. I somehow feel like I'm playing favourites and ignoring all of the other novels out there that I have yet to read once, let alone twice. Then I read the opening chapters of one of Kelley Armstrong's books and think \"screw the other books\". There's a reason why she's my favourite author and No Humans Involved reinforces that yet again. I loved watching Jeremy, the infallible alpha, stumble all over himself like a school boy trying to win Jaime over while she plays hard to get. Aside from the werewolf books, this installment is one of the more entertaining, well written novels in this series. I loved it from beginning to end and am strongly tempted to read it a third time! This is Jaime's book, no doubt about it. Yes, there's still the customary supernatural investigation plot line but we get to learn so much about her character that she eclipses everything else which is a-ok with me because I've always been fascinated by the Women of the Otherworld 's necromancer. At first glance she comes across as a ditsy, C-list celebrity who's a danger magnet but that's just a front. Every day is a struggle for her; she has to act \"normal\" in public while plagued by ghosts, she constantly has to walk away from spirits hounding her to pass along messages to their loved ones, and that's just typical day-to-day stuff. Throughout all of this chaos, Jaime somehow manages to remain positive and tries to help as many people as possible, both living and dead. Her powers seem to be almost like a running joke among the supernatural world, that is, until this installment. When Vegas finally gives her powers free reign she becomes one scary ass, don't f*#k with me, goddess of the dead. I'm so happy that Armstrong gave Jaime a chance to show readers what she's really made of. That's one scene that I'll re-read again and again. I'm always hungry for more Jeremy time and in No Humans Involved we get exactly that. Aside from the Otherworld Anthologies , the pack alpha is somewhat of a wallflower. Always present but never in the spotlight. However, in this book he finds himself out of his element, away from his pack and trying to woo Jaime. I loved seeing this side of him! As alpha he's never allowed to have any fun because his pack mates trip over themselves for the privilege of dying for him. I enjoyed watching him assume the role of fighter, protector and grunt. It suits him! Plus, witnessing Jaime shut down Jeremy's advances over and over again was hilarious. His wolves never say no to him so this was a whole new experience. Talk about sexual tension! Hope Adams, Eve Levine and Karl Marsten also make notable contributions to the plot but honestly, I only had eyes for Jaime and Jeremy. Their budding romance is over-the-top adorable. There's a kind of child like innocence to their relationship and yet not, because they're both past their primes and have the experience that goes along with it. Their interactions have an awkward teenage-dating-type feel to them but their sexual encounters are anything but. No Humans Involved is just too amazing for words. I could go on all day about the merits of this novel but really, there's only one way to experience this book and that's first hand. If you haven't read it yet you should, and if you have, you should read it again. ...more This is one of my favourites of the series and the first book in the series with Jaime (a necromancer) as narrator. It's also the first book where Jeremy isn't forced to stay on the sidelines out of the main action because of his status as Alpha. I also love this book cause it's the one that Jaime and Jeremy get together as a couple in as well as the fact that through Jaime we get glimpses of Jeremy that we don't get with Clay and Elena, mostly because he can let his guard down a little with Jai This is one of my favourites of the series and the first book in the series with Jaime (a necromancer) as narrator. It's also the first book where Jeremy isn't forced to stay on the sidelines out of the main action because of his status as Alpha. I also love this book cause it's the one that Jaime and Jeremy get together as a couple in as well as the fact that through Jaime we get glimpses of Jeremy that we don't get with Clay and Elena, mostly because he can let his guard down a little with Jaime rather then having to present a strong decisive front like he does with the pack, cause with Jaime he's just Jeremy not the Alpha. It was nice to get to see Jaime leading an investigation as well, mostly because it involved ghosts which is her speaciality and human magic which is unheard of and considered a myth in supernatural circles. That's where the dark side of the story comes in, the magic being cast is accomplished by killing children to use the ashes of their organs in order to cast spells that are really not worth the murder of innocent children to accomplish. The book is also a turning point for Jaime in another sense, aside from the investigation and her new relationship with Jeremy. She comes to terms with a lot of personal issues regarding her power and her career, like figuring out she wants to be able to do more then she currently does to help ghosts and she doesn't want to move into television. Her attempt to break into television was a throwback to when her mother was dominating her career and influencing what she did. The change of heart on ghosts was her realising that prehaps her nan was completely right when she told Jaime to ignore ghosts and the requests they made. She's decided that while she can't help them all, she can listen more and talk, maybe pass on a message when it's viable. These two are one of my favourite couples and I love how Jaime knows Jeremy well enough to realise he has to make the decision for them to be a couple and she's patient waiting on him though she does tease him now and then and makes sure he knows she's ready when he is. I love how she makes him lose control near the end as well. It's great seeing the other side to Jeremy. I know a lot of people assumed him to either be gay or celebate but I just assumed he was too much of a gentleman to kiss and tell, plus he wouldn't have girlfriends before because of his responsibility to the pack, not to mention that previous narrators have included Elena, Paige and Eve. Elena see's Jeremy as a father figure so she's hardly gonna be discussing his sex life and Paige and Eve don't know Jeremy well enough to comment on his love life. I do think he's lucky with Jaime as she's really does understand his duties to the pack and is willing to put up with a long distance sporadic relationship just to be with him and she's lucky as with his responsibilites he'll be able to accept and understand her work committments and constant touring. Added to the fact they can both relate to having a bad parent who made their childhoods hell and they really are a good match despite all their differences. Definetly a favourite read right after Bitten and Industrial Magic! ...more NO HUMANS INVOLVED (Women of the Otherworld #7) by Kelley Armstrong NO HUMANS INVOLVED is the 7th full length novel in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series. Featuring Jaime Vegas and Alpha leader Jeremy Danvers, No Humans Involved will see Jaime (finally) get her man or wolf, and we will see a side of Jeremy that we never knew existed. As a television personality renowned for her ability to \u2018speak to the dead\u2019 necromancer Jaime Vegas was invited to participate in a live televised tapi NO HUMANS INVOLVED (Women of the Otherworld #7) by Kelley Armstrong NO HUMANS INVOLVED is the 7th full length novel in Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series. Featuring Jaime Vegas and Alpha leader Jeremy Danvers, No Humans Involved will see Jaime (finally) get her man or wolf, and we will see a side of Jeremy that we never knew existed. As a television personality renowned for her ability to \u2018speak to the dead\u2019 necromancer Jaime Vegas was invited to participate in a live televised taping of with some of the best in the business, but little did anyone know, that Jaime is the only true necromancer and she has uncovered a mysterious burial ground right under their noses. Relaying the information to Elena, Jaime would find help in the form of American Pack Alpha Jeremy Danvers-a man she has been struggling to get him to acknowledge her existence. But every time she is in his presence her inner geek and dufus take over. And to her surprise Jeremy will reveal that he has noticed Jaime for several years, but his duties and his quiet reserve have held him back. Jaime and Jeremy will uncover a cult-like group of people hoping to bring the dead back to life. But while they are searching for the grounds outside the hotel, they will uncover a mass grave of young children, long thought to be runaways or missing. Eve Levine and Kristof Nash return to help Jaime communicate with the spirits of the children and help them crossover: Karl is called in when Hope and Jaime go missing and find themselves imprisoned by the ones hoping to gain power using an ancient ritual: and Jeremy and Jaime\u2019s relationship will take the next step when Jaime finds herself the girlfriend to the American Alpha. NO HUMANS INVOLVED is one of my favorite storylines in Kelley\u2019s WOTO series. I am a fan of the werewolves and Jeremy tugs at my heart. When he finally finds his mate, he is NOT your typical alpha male but it takes a strong feminine woman like Jaime to tame his inner beast. And Jaime's seduction of Jeremy is one of the smexiest seductions in Kelley Armstrong's WOTO series. ...more I'll be honest, I was never interested in Jaime Vegas as a character, however, I had hopes that she would win me over once she was able to stand on her own two feet. She even had Jeremy to aid her. Sadly, she only proved herself more insufferable than I initially thought. The plot itself wasn't so bad, it could have even been eerily compelling, but Jaime's lack of power was a hindrance. Having read The Summoning prior to No Humans Involved , I had the benefit of being introduced to an incredibly p I'll be honest, I was never interested in Jaime Vegas as a character, however, I had hopes that she would win me over once she was able to stand on her own two feet. She even had Jeremy to aid her. Sadly, she only proved herself more insufferable than I initially thought. The plot itself wasn't so bad, it could have even been eerily compelling, but Jaime's lack of power was a hindrance. Having read The Summoning prior to No Humans Involved , I had the benefit of being introduced to an incredibly powerful, albeit, very young necromancer. Jaime's power resembles a parlor trick in comparison. Furthermore, there were entirely too many useless extras about Jaime's shoot that served no purpose other than to remind readers that the star of this book was in fact Jaime Vegas, not Eve or Hope who aided her throughout much of the story. More often than not, Jaime was only around to talk about her figure, slutty clothes, and her fence riding skills with her co-stars. Oh, and to perform a one man show to entice Jeremy into doing her. Um, since when does Jaime have this sort of bravado? She could hardly speak to Jeremy without blushing and suddenly she is flicking the bean for his viewing pleasure? Come on. I wish I could say that in spite of Jaime's lack of appeal that Jeremy more than made up for it, as I was hoping he would, but he didn't. In fact, I couldn\u2019t find the Jeremy I know and love anywhere in this book. He too behaved way out of character, and I couldn't for the life of me understand why he came to see Jaime in the first place, or why she even invited him. It never mentions the motivations behind either of their actions. I'm incredibly disappointed in Armstrong for this one. It read like a clich\u00e9d damsel in distress, turned saucy whench tome that I go out of my way to avoid. I think I will stick to the Pack and Chloe Sanders from here on out. ...more My Summary: Jamie's always known where she wanted to go with her career, and when she gets invited to co-star on a spiritualist reality TV show, she knows she's almost there - getting her own show. Along with three other spiritualists (none of whom actually have any real powers), Jamie is supposed to summon the spirit of Marilyn Monroe and uncover the truth behind her untimely death. But things don't go as planned. Almost as soon as Jamie unpacks her things, she realizes there is something 'off' My Summary: Jamie's always known where she wanted to go with her career, and when she gets invited to co-star on a spiritualist reality TV show, she knows she's almost there - getting her own show. Along with three other spiritualists (none of whom actually have any real powers), Jamie is supposed to summon the spirit of Marilyn Monroe and uncover the truth behind her untimely death. But things don't go as planned. Almost as soon as Jamie unpacks her things, she realizes there is something 'off' about the house. There are troubled spirits around, but they won't make contact with her, choosing instead to poke and prod and pinch her when she's alone. More than a little disturbed by this, Jamie utilizes her multitude of contacts in the supernatural world, trying to discover what could have happened to these spirits and how to release them from limbo. But what Jamie discovers is more horrifying than anyone could ever have imagined... My Thoughts: If you guys read my blog regularly, then you know that Kelley Armstrong is, without a doubt, one of my all-time favourite authors. Her writing is flawless, and her stories are always jam-packed with action and mystery and romance - it's really difficult not to enjoy her novels, and No Humans Involved was no exception! I loved Jamie's 'voice' - in previous books and from the points of view of other characters, she seemed like a bit of a ditz, but not here. In No Humans Involved, you get to see just how bad-ass Jamie Vegas can be. I especially loved the romance element! Poor Jamie's been (secretly) in love with Jeremy for years, but he's always been a little bit oblivious... until now. It seems as if Jeremy's had feelings for Jamie too, and in this novel we really got to see the development of the relationship between these two characters who appear to be polar opposites. Final Thoughts: If you're a fan of supernatural romance and mystery, you should definitely check out this series from the reining queen of supernatural fiction! You will not be disappointed. ...more I am so happy to have read Jeremy's book. Okay, so it's Jaime's book, but it's Jeremy's book, too. With her pining after him for four years, it was about time something happened. I knew he wasn't dense and I knew he cared, but he had his reasons for holding back. Being Pack Alpha has a lot that comes with it and being involved with him could be dangerous should other werewolves outside of the Pack decide to exploit that. Luckily, they both decided to move forward despite the potential risks. The I am so happy to have read Jeremy's book. Okay, so it's Jaime's book, but it's Jeremy's book, too. With her pining after him for four years, it was about time something happened. I knew he wasn't dense and I knew he cared, but he had his reasons for holding back. Being Pack Alpha has a lot that comes with it and being involved with him could be dangerous should other werewolves outside of the Pack decide to exploit that. Luckily, they both decided to move forward despite the potential risks. They sure has some steamy scenes and lots of passion. Most people wouldn't think Jeremy could be so smoldery, but damn that is one hot wolf! Still my favorite of the men in this series with Kristof still a close second. Speaking of Kristof, he and Eve get some page time this time around as well. I loved seeing the two of them. Especially in that second to last chapter. I teared up. The case this time around involved some spirits that Jaime couldn't seem to make the usual contact with. She could partially hear them and she could feel them (shouldn't be able to do that!), but she couldn't see or hear them the way she could with normal ghosts. Turns out, they were children who were human sacrifice victims whose spirits had been drained. The people behind this were some seriously horrid people. Especially their ring leader. I was not expecting it to be that person. But when Jaime put it together, it made sense. The things people will do for magic and power. And it was such small magic! They got what they deserved, though. I enjoyed meeting Hope in this book and seeing Karl again. I think I'll like Hope's book. It'll be good to see her find a balance in dealing with the chaos she's attracted to. Those last few scenes she was in were freaky as hell, but she's a good person. I enjoyed all of the cameos, as usual. Especially seeing Aratron again. Cool demon. ...more Yes! Finally! After 4 years Jeremy and Jaime got together! And to make up for the all the lost time they did it with a Who knew Mr.Cool and Under Control Jeremy had such a wild sexy side. I gotta hand it to Armstrong, she created a perfect chemistry between those two, it was a pleasure to read and definitely worth the wait. I was glad to learn more about Jeremy, he was always a bit of a mystery and Jamie is just the kind of a woman to break his quiet reserve. She was always one of my favorite Yes! Finally! After 4 years Jeremy and Jaime got together! And to make up for the all the lost time they did it with a Who knew Mr.Cool and Under Control Jeremy had such a wild sexy side. I gotta hand it to Armstrong, she created a perfect chemistry between those two, it was a pleasure to read and definitely worth the wait. I was glad to learn more about Jeremy, he was always a bit of a mystery and Jamie is just the kind of a woman to break his quiet reserve. She was always one of my favorites in the series and it's a shame she only got one book. What I didn't like was the part about Jamie and filming her TV show. I found it a little bit distracting as it took me away from the main plot and her relationship with Jeremy, which left me wanting more. It wasn't my favorite of the series but I still really enjoyed it. Considering the tension between those two was building for a long time, I felt like there wasn't enough Jeremy/Jaime scenes. I'm hoping to see more of them in the future. Definitely a recommended read. ...more Out of all the supernatural beings - vampires, werewolves, demons etc. - necromancers are my thing! I've always been really intrigued by ghosts and I'm not convinced they aren't real, so naturally, necromancers are very interesting to me. I really enjoyed this book. In this 7th novel in the Women of the Otherworld series, we follow Jamie Vegas trying to free ghosts trapped between worlds. I loved Jamie's story and abilities, and of course her relationship with Jeremy is definitely hot. I think t Out of all the supernatural beings - vampires, werewolves, demons etc. - necromancers are my thing! I've always been really intrigued by ghosts and I'm not convinced they aren't real, so naturally, necromancers are very interesting to me. I really enjoyed this book. In this 7th novel in the Women of the Otherworld series, we follow Jamie Vegas trying to free ghosts trapped between worlds. I loved Jamie's story and abilities, and of course her relationship with Jeremy is definitely hot. I think they make a great couple. Jamie is a very interesting character, I have always liked her and we get to really know her in this novel. We also learn more about the secretive Jeremy. I didn't miss Elena and Clay in this one like I did in the other Non-Elena narrated novels. I'm glad their story is being left well enough alone for now. The plot was good. Nothing that kept me awake reading for hours, but it was still interesting and well balanced. We got to see a lot of the other characters which was fun. The ending was also very satisfying. I would recommend this series to any Armstrong fan. ...more \"No Humans Involved\", but Kelley Armstrong, is a thrilling, terrifying, and unique mystery set around her supernatural characters. I think that this book is the most frightening of all of them - it starts out not with one of her normal cast of supernaturals, but with a human teenager put in a nightmarish situation, and it gets scarier from there. This book centers around Jamie Vegas, a necromancer (someone who can see and talk with the dead), and she has to solve a mystery while trying to remai \"No Humans Involved\", but Kelley Armstrong, is a thrilling, terrifying, and unique mystery set around her supernatural characters. I think that this book is the most frightening of all of them - it starts out not with one of her normal cast of supernaturals, but with a human teenager put in a nightmarish situation, and it gets scarier from there. This book centers around Jamie Vegas, a necromancer (someone who can see and talk with the dead), and she has to solve a mystery while trying to remain professional during a film shoot. It also allows us to meet Hope Adams, a half-demon with a thirst for chaos but a hunger for goodness, in a more direct way, and see what this young spit-fire is all about. Truly, an amazing read. My favorite so far in this series. ...more Although I found this book a bit longer than it needed to be, I did enjoy it. Two of my most favorite characters in the series so far were in this book, Jeremy and Jaime. I love the whole necromancer thing and find it fascinating when Jaime is interacting with \"ghosts\", especially when there was whispering and patting going on! The two main players in the story are very well suited and the build up was engrossing. 2.5 stars This was much better than Bitten . The story moved along much more smoothly without all the stupid decisions. I really don't have anything to say about it. It was okay. I don't think I'll really recall anything about it in a couple of months, though. Jeremyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy (oui, c'est ma review, bisous) Excerpt: Prologue and first chapter Review This was one of the books I didn't review after but WHILE reading it. So, here it comes. The before and the after: Before. I started the first.. like three pages, then put the book down and read the blurb. Yes, I know I should have done that before, but I thought this was the book narrated by Hope (not that till now the real narrator would have been 'introduced'). Anyway, so this is the necro's book? Kind of awkward. I mean.. she's crushing on Jer and he's. Excerpt: Prologue and first chapter Review This was one of the books I didn't review after but WHILE reading it. So, here it comes. The before and the after: Before. I started the first.. like three pages, then put the book down and read the blurb. Yes, I know I should have done that before, but I thought this was the book narrated by Hope (not that till now the real narrator would have been 'introduced'). Anyway, so this is the necro's book? Kind of awkward. I mean.. she's crushing on Jer and he's.. rather the introvert, right? I thought she was.. well. Forever alone . And then, of course, Kelley Armstrong was all: After: Kay, Kelley Armstrong just owned me. This was so friggin good! Amazing, I really love, love, love the novel! If there was one couple in this series I was uncomfortable about, it probably was this one. Jeremy and Jaime , the werewolf Alpha and the necromancer. Both older than me and older than the usual Urban Fantasy h/h. Also, the situation seemed awkward \u2013 Jaime had a crush on Jeremy for years and he never seemed to notice. - Reminded me too much of 7th grade. Or so I thought. But they both were adorable. Admittedly, after reading the whole series - this isn't my favorite Women of the Otherworld novel, but it was much better than many other UF novels. I was a bit afraid about the plot, because the Broken-plot wasn't very captivating in the beginning. But unlike Broken, No Humans Involved did captivate me (it also made me forget to eat, which is a nice way of loosing weight ;b) It wasn't the best plot ever, but I've been waiting for a book and plot like that and Armstrong does so many things right when she's creating conflicts and characters that \u2013 when reading other books \u2013 I often think: \u201eAh, why didn't Kelley Armstrong write this book? The idea was soo good, but the execution?\u201c Children have been killed and Jaime wants to free their apparently trapped souls \u2013 only to have to face things and magic that haven't been known to exist. Along the way of uncovering what happened to the kids she deals with her own insecurities and burdens \u2013 Things I could actually relate to. Jeremy wasn't what I expected and although I'd have liked to see 'my' expectations of Jeremy I have to admit that this one does fit everything much better. Especially after reading Men of the Otherworld and Tales of the Otherworld it makes much sense. Since I'm not Jaime (for example, I'm not self-confident like she is) I would never have managed to see past his tough, calm attitude. But I loved to read about them and see how they dealt with the things that stood between them. This installment left me with some questions that haven't been answered in the other novels, but in the Men of the Otherworld collection. I also wanted to read more about Jeremy and his past (another thing that we actually do in the Otherworld shorties/collections) and wouldn't have complained about a little Jaime-and-her-mother-scene. I loved to see Karl and Hope in this novel and actually reread their scenes when I had read their book(s) and novellas. -grin- Considering all of the above, I think that my rating makes sense. :) ...more At last! I feel like I have been waiting for a book for Jeremy and Jaime for ages! It makes me glad that I am reading this series well after they have all been published, waiting a year between installments would be torture. The last thing Jaime expected when she started doing a TV shoot in Los Angeles was to be haunted. Being a necromancer making a living as being a celebrity psychic she knows a thing or two about ghosts; however, these ghosts aren't acting as they should. Determined to get to At last! I feel like I have been waiting for a book for Jeremy and Jaime for ages! It makes me glad that I am reading this series well after they have all been published, waiting a year between installments would be torture. The last thing Jaime expected when she started doing a TV shoot in Los Angeles was to be haunted. Being a necromancer making a living as being a celebrity psychic she knows a thing or two about ghosts; however, these ghosts aren't acting as they should. Determined to get to the bottom of what is happening before more people die, Jaime starts to investigate. However, she isn't alone Jeremy, alpha of the werewolves and the man Jaime hasn't been able stop thinking about for the last few years happens to be visiting, and she hopes that protecting her isn't the only thing he will be doing. Like I said above, I feel like I have been waiting for this book forever, Jaime normally so self assured and outrageous turns in to a blushing clumsy teenager whenever Jeremy is on the scene and frankly it is adorable so I have been dying to see where this will lead. Well, it led to No Humans Involved another fantastic book from Kelley Armstrong, it was action packed and exciting with all the romance I have been waiting for. What I really liked about this book was getting to know Jeremy and Jaime better, Jeremy is the alpha of the werewolves and is almost sphinx like, you never know what he is thinking and unlike the other volatile werewolves he never loses control and keeps him thoughts and emotions close to his chest. Jaime is more outgoing, but is desperate to take a hold of her own destiny and prove that she is more than just a damsel in distress and that she can do some saving of her own. I loved seeing these two different personalities come together as Jeremy backs up Jaime as she investigates the ghosts. We are also introduced to some new characters, Hope the half demon journalist and Karl the werewolf, who although we have seen briefly in Bitten (as the villain!) we haven't seen since. I believe they are the subject of the next book, something I can't wait to get my hands on. Together they are investigating he strange ghosts that Jaime has found, which leads to some very unexpected places, including a BDSM dungeon. I enjoyed the story and the hunt as they tracked down the culprits it made for a fast paced and interesting read. Another winner in this series, I recommend that you give the series a try, it is one that needs to read in order as Kelley Armstrong does a fantastic job of building up her world through each of her books and you get the full benefits of getting to know her characters. Roll on book eight! Reviewed by Suzanne \u2764 \u2661 Don't want to miss any of our posts? Subscribe to our blog by email! \u2661 \u2764 ...more Reread JAMIE AND JEREMY <3333333333333333333 HEARTS IN MY EYES FOREVER. FOREVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! What I really liked about this book (besides, um, EVERYTHING) was how much was focused on Jaime coming to terms with herself, her place in the supernatural community, and her own powers. I think anyone who spent enough time around Elena, Paige, Savannah, and even Cassandra would have their hangups about their usefulness and what they can really add to any kind of investigation, and just Ja Reread JAMIE AND JEREMY <3333333333333333333 HEARTS IN MY EYES FOREVER. FOREVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! What I really liked about this book (besides, um, EVERYTHING) was how much was focused on Jaime coming to terms with herself, her place in the supernatural community, and her own powers. I think anyone who spent enough time around Elena, Paige, Savannah, and even Cassandra would have their hangups about their usefulness and what they can really add to any kind of investigation, and just Jaime coming to terms with the fact that what she does is just different, no less powerful or relevant in its place than anyone else. I was also super into Jaime and Jeremy working at figuring out how their relationship would work between their own individual lives, especially Jeremy's. I love that Jaime really does accept that he is the Alpha and that for a lot of things the Pack is just going to come first. It doesn't bother her (if anything, it bothers Jeremy). I really enjoyed seeing the way being Alpha of the Pack has impacted Jeremy's life and his decision to undertake a serious relationship, and the way he chafes at always being protected. I keep coming back around to the idea of supernatural evolution because it's the over arching theme that's really sticking out for me on this reread. The series starts out so tightly focused on Werewolves, and then it just expands so far outwards. As the series itself evolves, so do the races within, and I'm just really fascinated by the ideas that were first developed in Stolen are still coming into play. Not only do we see that explicitly in this book with the magical evolution of humans, but it's also there more subtly when it comes to cultural evolution. Before Jeremy was Alpha, the Pack was exclusively male dominated. They STOLE babies from mothers, for crying out loud! and the men were encouraged not to develop lasting relationships. That all changed with Elena (and Clay), and it not only allowed for werewolves to evolve as a full blooded species but also for the other male werewolves to look at their lives, look at their choices, so to speak. We saw it in Broken with Nick questioning what he's doing with his life (What, what WHAT are you doing?), and we see it here with Jeremy, allowing himself to take a real spouse and partner. I AM ETERNALLY FASCINATED by this, and I would love to read something like the Werewolf Legacy that just detailed the history of the Pack for the next three to four generations. ANYWAY. Besides all that heavy stuff, can we TALK about that sex scene, because I need a minute. ...more I like all of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s books about Women of the Otherworld. This story is about Jamie Vegas the necromancer. She\u2019s in the house with two other supposedly necro\u2019s too and they are there to have various s\u00e9ances about famous people who were murdered leading up to Marilyn Monroe. While there she encounters ghosts but is unable to communicate with them and vice versa. She later finds out that the ghost to which she has been unsuccessful in communicating with are child ghosts and with the he I like all of Kelley Armstrong\u2019s books about Women of the Otherworld. This story is about Jamie Vegas the necromancer. She\u2019s in the house with two other supposedly necro\u2019s too and they are there to have various s\u00e9ances about famous people who were murdered leading up to Marilyn Monroe. While there she encounters ghosts but is unable to communicate with them and vice versa. She later finds out that the ghost to which she has been unsuccessful in communicating with are child ghosts and with the help of Eve and Jeremy, they discover one of the kids remains at the house in the garden where the show is being produced and gets a name of who did this. Jamie is also assisted by Hope who led them to a group of humans doing human magic through human sacrifice. But one of these group members has inherited down the line demon blood. But unbeknownst to them at first is that one of the people responsible for the child murders is in the group Hope took Jamie and Jeremy to help assist in finding these individuals. This group is supposed to be searching for people who take advantage of other people using supposedly through supernatural means (con-jobs). However in this group are the people doing the murders and them also seek individuals who could help them in their human magic. You have chapters in the book were it is solely about the activities of the group from the ring leader. In between this story we see a deeper relationship between Jamie and Jeremy forming as they both admit how they feel for one another. So, there are a few nice scenes then one funny/sexy/romantic scene. They both decided to give the relationship a try despite, Jeremy\u2019s responsibilities and Jamie\u2019s career. They make a cute couple. As always the book is none stop action, adventurous and romantic in certain areas. I would recommend reading. ...more No Humans Involved is the seventh book in the Women of the Otherworld series, and the books are still as strong as ever. This one features the oldest protagonist so far, Jaime. Jaime is a spiritualist, only her producers know she's actually the real deal, and that she's a necromancer on top of that as well. The story roughly follows two story lines; the one in which Jaime is co-starring in a TV show, and the \"supernatural mystery\" storyline. In the backyard of the house they're shooting the show No Humans Involved is the seventh book in the Women of the Otherworld series, and the books are still as strong as ever. This one features the oldest protagonist so far, Jaime. Jaime is a spiritualist, only her producers know she's actually the real deal, and that she's a necromancer on top of that as well. The story roughly follows two story lines; the one in which Jaime is co-starring in a TV show, and the \"supernatural mystery\" storyline. In the backyard of the house they're shooting the show Jaime comes across some spirits that can actually touch her, something they aren't supposed to be able to do. With the help of Jeremy and the fellow Otherworld cast she solves the mystery. After Bitten , this might actually be one of my favourites of the series. Jaime was a wonderful heroine, one that is independent yet knows when a guy is being chivalrous and when to accept that. The fact that she's so confident in her skin and experienced in the love-field was refreshing. She's a great match to Jeremy and I loved their scenes together. They quite often made me grin while reading - and that's quite a feat for me. More often than not I'm grossed out by the love scenes, but nothing like that in No Humans Involved . The scenes were sexy without being icky. Sometimes it's a bit hard to keep up with all the characters that make up the Otherworld cast, but I still enjoyed the little insights in the lives of my favourite characters like Elena and Eve. It was quite obvious that Hope will be getting the next book, but the little hints Ms Armstrong has dropped about her have definitely made me interested. No Humans Involved is a strong continuation of this solid urban-fantasy series, and one that I would strongly recommend. ...more Full review up on the blog: http://gloriousbooks.blogspot.co.uk/2... As always, reading a sequel to books in a series always leaves me feeling some level of apprehension. Will it measure up to how I felt about the past six books? Yes. Yes, it really did. The first worry I had was after I read the blurb of the book and found it's narrated by necromancer Jaime. I love her character but I hadn't gone so far as to think she would be the main focus of one of the books in the series. I found myself real Full review up on the blog: http://gloriousbooks.blogspot.co.uk/2... As always, reading a sequel to books in a series always leaves me feeling some level of apprehension. Will it measure up to how I felt about the past six books? Yes. Yes, it really did. The first worry I had was after I read the blurb of the book and found it's narrated by necromancer Jaime. I love her character but I hadn't gone so far as to think she would be the main focus of one of the books in the series. I found myself really enjoying finding out a lot more about her. Not just her but Jeremy too. Jeremy was definitely shown in a different light than he has been in the past. Jeremy you dog! No pun intended. I definitely found Jaime to be a brilliant character. She was so flawed and well rounded that she became incredibly relatable even though she can raise the dead and all that jazz. I really enjoyed her interactions with Jeremy - the way she tested his intentions really made me laugh. She was also really loveable with the way she chastised herself for acting like a crushing schoolgirl. Jaime brought something different to the series as a whole. The plot was fantastic. I really loved the way it played out the opposite to what I was expecting. It was actually surprisingly creepy. Most of the books in this series have some element of horror, even to just a tiny extent, but this one was taken a little bit further with its talk of ghosts and its descriptions of raising the dead. It managed to make me shudder which was brilliant. Armstrong's writing brought everything I expected to the table. There was bucket loads of suspense and excitement up until the very end - truly never a dull moment. ...more No Human\u2019s Involved \u2013 Women of the Otherworld #7 For a lot of reasons this was my favourite instalment of the series. I think part of it is that a lot of the couple in these books, are just kinda \u2018wham\u2019 then they\u2019re together. I will be honest when saying that while I love the Otherworld series, there are a few couples that bored me to tears simply because there was no angst, no build up, no nothing. Jaime and Jeremy have quite a bit of build up over several books which I think made all the differ No Human\u2019s Involved \u2013 Women of the Otherworld #7 For a lot of reasons this was my favourite instalment of the series. I think part of it is that a lot of the couple in these books, are just kinda \u2018wham\u2019 then they\u2019re together. I will be honest when saying that while I love the Otherworld series, there are a few couples that bored me to tears simply because there was no angst, no build up, no nothing. Jaime and Jeremy have quite a bit of build up over several books which I think made all the difference. Then there\u2019s the fact that Jeremy is so damned stoic, you don\u2019t get to see very much of who he us until this book when he lets his guard down with Jaime, I think we learn more about him in this book than we did over the passed six. That was sexy as hell. And lastly the two of them together are just downright hawt! The plot itself was also a really good one. Kelley Armstrong is a very talented story teller. (view spoiler) [The big baddies here are average humans who have lost all restraint in their search for magical power and begin preying on children. Jaime is living in a mansion for a week while filming a TV special, and stumbles across the children\u2019s spirits in the backyard. She\u2019s confused however because these spirits are unlike any she\u2019s ever come across before, the reasons for which have everything to do with what the humans have done to them. (hide spoiler) ] I\u2019ve read this book several times, athough it\u2019s been a while, I know I will go back to it several times more. I really hope we get more of the couple at some point, and if you love J & J as much as I do, make sure you check out the story \u2018Kitsungari\u201d in the Men of the Otherworld anthology. ...more", "Title": "No Humans Involved"},
