{"Comments": "It took me a lot longer to get into this one than the previous books, but I still really enjoyed it. My mind is always racing as I read these, thinking about what can happen in the world and how crazy it could be. But then I remember that if we are prepared we don't need to fear. And I remember how God is truly a god of miracles and He can guide us and direct us and do amazing things. It's the world and Satan's influence that teaches us that good can't happen and that things are impossible, but It took me a lot longer to get into this one than the previous books, but I still really enjoyed it. My mind is always racing as I read these, thinking about what can happen in the world and how crazy it could be. But then I remember that if we are prepared we don't need to fear. And I remember how God is truly a god of miracles and He can guide us and direct us and do amazing things. It's the world and Satan's influence that teaches us that good can't happen and that things are impossible, but it's not true. He can do anything and He does more than we even realize. I can't and won't say these are very well-written books (because they're not and there's a lot of things that bug me), but I love the characters and the message and I can't wait to see what happens next! ...more Once again the story is interesting enough and well-written enough to keep me going, but not well-written enough to keep me from rolling my eyes every now and then. Stewart indulges in stereotypes, cliches, and downright cheesy language. Worst of all, I keep finding myself reading and thinking \"But a real person would never do that!\" or \"A real human would never say something like that!\" It's not so bad as to make the series unreadable--I still like the books although I wouldn't necessarily reco Once again the story is interesting enough and well-written enough to keep me going, but not well-written enough to keep me from rolling my eyes every now and then. Stewart indulges in stereotypes, cliches, and downright cheesy language. Worst of all, I keep finding myself reading and thinking \"But a real person would never do that!\" or \"A real human would never say something like that!\" It's not so bad as to make the series unreadable--I still like the books although I wouldn't necessarily recommend them to anyone,<---M> but again</---M>, be prepared to roll your eyes a bit if you decide to dive in. ...more Big payoffs! Things really heat up in book 4, but it still leaves us hanging, so I hope the author is hard at work on book 5. I was very happy with the developments in the story.<---F> Thoroughly satisfying</---F>. I enjoy the speculation that goes into how major world events could unfold. Lots of fun. Okay, this series deserves a review. Hmmm. Where to start? Writing Style and Story: two stars. It is painful in parts. Especially in the first book, \"Prologue: The Brothers.\" The series is many parts boring, and several parts cheesy. I skimmed a lot of this series. It seemed that over half of the entire series was devoted to everything and everyone but our main characters. Everyone that was in the story seemed to have a chance to tell the story from the good to the bad to the insignificant. There Okay, this series deserves a review. Hmmm. Where to start? Writing Style and Story: two stars. It is painful in parts. Especially in the first book, \"Prologue: The Brothers.\" The series is many parts boring, and several parts cheesy. I skimmed a lot of this series. It seemed that over half of the entire series was devoted to everything and everyone but our main characters. Everyone that was in the story seemed to have a chance to tell the story from the good to the bad to the insignificant. Therefore, you always knew what was going to happen next. And because we spent so much time hearing about everyone in the world and out of the world our main characters are not really developed and by the end when you are still holding out to know more about them it's time for the story to end and so you don't get to hear anything more. Everyone just kinda gets dropped. I wanted to know what happened to them. They lived. That was all I got. We also had a lot of build up and then we turn to the next page and the situation is over and you were given a few words from someone good or bad like, \"Wow, can't believe we survived that. That was hard. But now we are safe and it over.\" To know what happened we were given one or two lines. \"Sam made it out in time.\" \"The earth was created.\" Anti-climatic. Disconnected. Theology: One and a half stars. In many ways this is a LDS \"Left Behind\" apocalyptic story. In the first book we see the Pre-Mortal Life. I know many people might get nervous over this. It was all pretty watered down though so deep breaths please. Nothing to get nervous about. Sure there were some assumptions, but they were pretty probable or so ridiculous that you could roll with it. But I don't think the author's point is to get us fixated on what it was like physically, but to get us to think what it was like on a spiritual level. He didn't a better job with this. When they are on earth the characters seem almost apologetic to everyone for their religion. They are embarrassed trying to explain a mission. They forget until people are almost dead that they can give blessings. Prayer is an after thought. Sometimes if it's mentioned at all. One main character mom lectures a non-Mormon character about why she shouldn't tell anyone about her daughters healing. There are too few references to what LDS people believe in this book. That frustrated me. Also we have one character who starts out unsure of his faith. Little is told of his struggle to know and what he does. Contrast maybe a G. Lund book and we have books on Joshua's Steed's searching and pleading. Our character mentions he wants to know more. Than hundred's of pages later (maybe in another book- not sure- I read three books in one day), our character falls from the sky (literally in a parachute) and says, \"Don't worry mom, I am an elder now. I can give our dying brother a blessing.\" I'm serious. Basically this series is very weak on most levels theologically speaking. I'm not sure why.... Overall Take Home Message: Five stars. Now I'm sure by now you think I hate this series. Quite the contrary. Yes, much of it I've blocked out because it was rough. But, I have not been able to stop thinking about some of the ideas in this book. There's a lot of Screwtape and Wormwood (CS Lewis' masterpiece) discussion going on. What are those voices telling me right now? There is a lot of dialogue about what's happening on the other side of the veil both good and bad. What promises did you make before you came? Who you might have known there that you know here? What's your purpose here on earth? Do we realize how many are fighting for us? against us? We have a lot of power. We have a lot of light and truth. I've spent a lot of time thinking about some of these ideas. Some I've dismissed and others have redirected me and my own earth life experience. So if I had to wade through over 1800 pages to get at least 5 life changing ideas, (which I did), it was worth it. Will I read this again? Yes. Probably a couple of times. (It helps that it has a happy ending-albeit very choppy and slightly confusing-but happy is good. I like happy endings). ...more Wow. WOW. I just can\u2019t believe it. This book is very satisfying. After all the endless military detail, violence and jumping around in past books, this one is like a breath of fresh air. I loved it. It was easier to follow, more touching, and more exciting. Now that the characters are fully developed and you feel a lot closer to them, their stories and feelings have a greater impact. The whole thing was mind boggling. Could that EMP thing really happen, and that easily bring the US to its knees? Wow. WOW. I just can\u2019t believe it. This book is very satisfying. After all the endless military detail, violence and jumping around in past books, this one is like a breath of fresh air. I loved it. It was easier to follow, more touching, and more exciting. Now that the characters are fully developed and you feel a lot closer to them, their stories and feelings have a greater impact. The whole thing was mind boggling. Could that EMP thing really happen, and that easily bring the US to its knees? Yikes! It was all so real. I now fully understand why Stewart puts in so much military detail. It\u2019s total proof that that kind of destruction is possible. Finally I\u2019m actually interested in \u2018war stuff\u2019\u2026.that EMP thing really got me going. The destruction of the \u2018Great Satan\u2019 that has been being planned for years in advance has finally taken place. So has King Abdulla won? Has he gotten everything the old man promised? According to himself, he has. But Satan tells him the truth. He has lied. He was wasted his life and has sealed his fate with the blood of thousands. The main characters finally meet. (YAY!!!) Their stories finally come together is a beautiful twist. I feel the REAL story has only begun. The REAL trial, the REAL test of faith, and the REAL courage will now finally be shown. I admire each one of the Brightons. I love reading about each of their perspectives and feelings. I loved how the Spirit\u2019s promptings overpowered Satan\u2019s in this book. At least, the spirit had a bigger effect. It showed how God has more power in everything, and how He is watching us. Over all, this book was terrifying and very powerful. It was beautiful. I loved the emotion and feelings portrayed in this book. Sam\u2019s story touched me the most. He\u2019s always been a favorite character, and I\u2019ve loved seeing how his feelings towards God and the Spirit and other morals were shown in his life; just differently than most people. I cried\u2014no, bawled\u2014when he found his family and told them he had the priesthood. I just couldn\u2019t help myself. I read it over and over again. You may think that I\u2019m being a little dramatic, but I\u2019m telling you\u2014that was the sweetest thing I\u2019ve ever read. And then his blessing\u2026wow. I felt the spirit by just reading it. I get chills just THINKING about it! I cried through the rest of the book. It was just so sweet! So touching and perfect! Oh, I could go on and on. I just loved it. It was written so well I could almost see his face; almost hear the words; almost feel the very wave of power from being in an angel\u2019s presence. It was all so wonderful! *sniff* I\u2019m not kidding: it really was beautiful. Stick with the first few books....this book is worth it!!! ...more When the world turns dark and is coming apart it becomes even more apparent that the most important blessings we have are the guidance of the Spirit, the power of prayer, and the power of the priesthood. This is a crazy book - and makes you think about what you would do if the world changed in an instant and you were left on your own. \"'But if ye are prepared ye shall not fear ( D&C 38:30 on p. 261).'\" A few other quotes that I liked: \"'Nothing makes sense anymore, Mom. Nothing at all. The only When the world turns dark and is coming apart it becomes even more apparent that the most important blessings we have are the guidance of the Spirit, the power of prayer, and the power of the priesthood. This is a crazy book - and makes you think about what you would do if the world changed in an instant and you were left on your own. \"'But if ye are prepared ye shall not fear ( D&C 38:30 on p. 261).'\" A few other quotes that I liked: \"'Nothing makes sense anymore, Mom. Nothing at all. The only thing that makes any sense is what we know in our hearts, the things we know by the Spirit. That's the only way we'll be led. We can't look to anyone else right now, not our bishop, not other members. We're on our own for a while. But remember what the scriptures say about this day: Some pretty cool things are going to happen to those who listen to the Spirit. Children will see visions. Children will have dreams (p. 27).'\" \"'And I will be your light in the wilderness; and I will prepare the way before you, if it so be that ye shall keep my commandments; wherefore, inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall be led towards the promised land; and ye shall know that it is by me that ye are led ( 1 Nephi 17:13 on p. 29).'\" \"'War is the great accelerator. It forces things to happen much more quickly than they otherwise would. It changes people, it changes nations, it changes everything (p. 56).'\" \"'I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up ( D&C 84:88 on p. 214).'\" \"'God loves you. He knows you are here. You can talk to him anytime that you need to. You can pray to him and he will listen (p. 287).'\" ...more The book Fury And Light by <---A>Chris Stewart</---A> is a good book. Prince Abdullah has finally done it. He has nuked D.C., and taken out most the government. Now he plans to further cripple the U.S. by launching an EMP attack. Now the U.S. has no power and anything electrical is down. Bad people plan to take over the U.S., then the world. But good people still exist in America and they are willing to lay down their lives to save America. I think this book is valuable because it teaches people that it is g The book Fury And Light by Chris Stewart is a good book. Prince Abdullah has finally done it. He has nuked D.C., and taken out most the government. Now he plans to further cripple the U.S. by launching an EMP attack. Now the U.S. has no power and anything electrical is down. Bad people plan to take over the U.S., then the world. But good people still exist in America and they are willing to lay down their lives to save America. I think this book is valuable because it teaches people that it is good to be prepared. It also shows that having good people around you is the best thing you can do. I didn\u2019t think any parts were slow or unnecessary, and I loved it all. Every part was explained in detail and not that hard to understand. I agree with the author's perspective because its really good and from multiple characters views. The voice matters because it makes it more understandable. I think the theme is if you are prepared, you can get through everything. ...more The world is on the edge of total disaster of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has brought the United States to their knees. His evil plan is moving forward with the help of Satan. Sara Brighton is heading West with her sons Luke and Ammon. She is relying on the Spirit to help her know what to do. Sam Brighton is on his way home from overseas but does not know what he will find once he returns to his home near Washington, D.C. Meanwhile Avadeh has met her foster mother and sister and begins to crea The world is on the edge of total disaster of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has brought the United States to their knees. His evil plan is moving forward with the help of Satan. Sara Brighton is heading West with her sons Luke and Ammon. She is relying on the Spirit to help her know what to do. Sam Brighton is on his way home from overseas but does not know what he will find once he returns to his home near Washington, D.C. Meanwhile Avadeh has met her foster mother and sister and begins to create a life for herself in a country that is desperately struggling for survival. These characters are in the midst of a war of dark and light and will have to rely on the spirit more than any other time in their lives. When Stewart sticks with his story and furthering the depth of his main characters he is spot on. I found myself close to tears at the end because I became so invested. The most pressing impression I have as I read this series is how important preparedness is--following the prophet and doing what we are supposed to do. It has me wanting to go buy a years supply of everything right now! ...more The fourth book in the series, \"The Great and Terrible,\" by Chris Stewart. This book seems to begin the return to hope in the series. We see the adversary, in his quest for domination of men's souls and the whole world, finally meet defeat. We see people finally able to thwart his machinations. This is exceedingly satisfying. One cannot help but wonder why we had to wait this long for God to begin inspiring people for their protection and temporal salvation, but maybe because Stewart has almost The fourth book in the series, \"The Great and Terrible,\" by Chris Stewart. This book seems to begin the return to hope in the series. We see the adversary, in his quest for domination of men's souls and the whole world, finally meet defeat. We see people finally able to thwart his machinations. This is exceedingly satisfying. One cannot help but wonder why we had to wait this long for God to begin inspiring people for their protection and temporal salvation, but maybe because Stewart has almost completely denied it to us up to now, it is marvelous in this book. One of the tactics widely employed among today's writers is the shifting of scenes, from one protagonist to another. Chris Stewart employs this tactic fairly well, but less in this book than in previous books. When the situation he leaves behind is such a cliff hanger, and we are taken to a much more mundane one, it is tempting to leave the unexciting one behind and skip back to the cliff hanger. It is because of this, and the plowing through of somewhat irrelevant narrative that kept me from giving this book the highest rating. Still, very worth it. ...more This is the 4th book in a 6 book series about the last days (end of the world, whatever you want to call it). These books give me panic attacks. I think Chris Stewart is a great mormon author, because he really knows what he's talking about. The attacks on America in this book could actually happen, this isn't so far out there that it's not believable. In fact, it's just the opposite: they terrify me because it could happen. What I love about this book is the redemption. In the end, Satan tells This is the 4th book in a 6 book series about the last days (end of the world, whatever you want to call it). These books give me panic attacks. I think Chris Stewart is a great mormon author, because he really knows what he's talking about. The attacks on America in this book could actually happen, this isn't so far out there that it's not believable. In fact, it's just the opposite: they terrify me because it could happen. What I love about this book is the redemption. In the end, Satan tells the king that he was lying the whole time. That no matter what he told him previously, they are going to lose. No matter what they do to America or the people all over the world, eventually, Satan will be bound and Christ will come again. The miracles that occur are beautiful and provide hope in a very dark time. This book gives me hope that if things really do get this bad, it won't be forever, and we can overcome. They also make me want to get lots and lots of food storage, some gold, and a gun. ...more The Great and Terrible Vol 4: Fury and Light by Chris Stewart This installmen of Chris's fantastic and mesmerizing end days series was the best thus far in my book. I thoroughly enjoyed an d was held spellbound by what was happening to the Brighton's along the way after the aftermath of an EMP devastated America. It showed how miracles can still happen amidst chaos, even with Satan and his minions doing their dastardly evil. This volume shows how an EMP throws America back to the pre-industrial a The Great and Terrible Vol 4: Fury and Light by Chris Stewart This installmen of Chris's fantastic and mesmerizing end days series was the best thus far in my book. I thoroughly enjoyed an d was held spellbound by what was happening to the Brighton's along the way after the aftermath of an EMP devastated America. It showed how miracles can still happen amidst chaos, even with Satan and his minions doing their dastardly evil. This volume shows how an EMP throws America back to the pre-industrial age and how we as Americans would have to survive with more ancient modes of travel and survival. Since I just started Vol. 5 in this fantastic thriller, you'll be getting a review soon and of vol. 6 as well. If you haven't read these books, do yourself a huge favor and do so, you'll be glad you did. Forever Friends Rating A Huge 5 Stars by Teri Until Next Time, See You Around The Book Nook. Publisher: Deseret Book Company Pub. Date: July 2007 ISBN-13: 9781590386293 313pp ...more Just like most everyone else, this is my favorite book in this series, so far. Some of my friends had a hard time reading books 2 and 3 of this series because they seemed so violent and depressing. This book makes up for the other two. Although full of hardships, trials, and impossible tasks, there was hope in this book. A hope that despite these hardships, divine direction is given and people do survive such hardships. Thinking about the possibilities of what could happen, I am motivated to con Just like most everyone else, this is my favorite book in this series, so far. Some of my friends had a hard time reading books 2 and 3 of this series because they seemed so violent and depressing. This book makes up for the other two. Although full of hardships, trials, and impossible tasks, there was hope in this book. A hope that despite these hardships, divine direction is given and people do survive such hardships. Thinking about the possibilities of what could happen, I am motivated to continue my preparations to have a good storage, including putting my electronics (flashlights, radios, etc.) in a strong box, in my basement, hidden behind whatever I can find to shield it. Anyone interested in \"end of the world\", or future war ideas, this is a good book/series. If vol. 2 and 3 are just too sad, or depressing, pick up this vol. Although sad, it is hopeful, inspiring and enjoyable to read. ...more All of these books leave you hanging at the end! AHHH! Who knows when the next one will be out. I waited like a year and a half for this one. It was awesome! Another one way too close to reality. I love it! I couldn't put it down! About the series: These books are fantastic! The series starts in the Pre-existance and is supposed to conclude with the Second Coming. They are wonderfully written and packed full of action and suspense! I love them because they are written in line with the Gospel and All of these books leave you hanging at the end! AHHH! Who knows when the next one will be out. I waited like a year and a half for this one. It was awesome! Another one way too close to reality. I love it! I couldn't put it down! About the series: These books are fantastic! The series starts in the Pre-existance and is supposed to conclude with the Second Coming. They are wonderfully written and packed full of action and suspense! I love them because they are written in line with the Gospel and some of the main characters are LDS. There is nothing in them that is offensive, ie: swear words, sexual imagery, etc. They are very fast paced and I have a hard time putting the book down. The only problem is that the series is not complete yet (the author said, in an interview that I read on deseretbook.com, that he expects there to be 7 or 8). I pretty much grab them up as soon as they come out. ...more This one was really good too! The story is about the journey of the main characters finally coming together in one place despite the challenges and craziness of the end of the world going on around them. The Lord guides them in the directions they should go and Satan puts obstacles in their paths. We know that Satan continues to get stronger in these days and we see evidence of that every day. But it will be truly amazing to see the power of God in the last days as well. I do believe there will This one was really good too! The story is about the journey of the main characters finally coming together in one place despite the challenges and craziness of the end of the world going on around them. The Lord guides them in the directions they should go and Satan puts obstacles in their paths. We know that Satan continues to get stronger in these days and we see evidence of that every day. But it will be truly amazing to see the power of God in the last days as well. I do believe there will be many miracles shown to those who follow the Spirit. The things that are happening in the world, in this book, are truly terrifying and so plausible. It has driven me to start making lists of emergency plans and supplies so that if something bad really happened, we would be able to take care of ourselves, defend our property and lives, and be able to meet up with our loved ones if we were separated with no communication. I can't wait to read the next one! ...more This is Volume 4 of the Great & Terrible series. I read it out of order, but it was a great book stronger than volume 5. In this book, those dirty old Saudi royalty set off an atomic bomb over Washington, DC and that pretty well shut down the government. The soldiers around the world were called home to regroup. Then (gnashing of teeth, here) the rascals set off 4 atomic bombs over the 4 quadrants of the USA which resulted in an Electro-Magnetic Pulse that successfully burned out every elect This is Volume 4 of the Great & Terrible series. I read it out of order, but it was a great book stronger than volume 5. In this book, those dirty old Saudi royalty set off an atomic bomb over Washington, DC and that pretty well shut down the government. The soldiers around the world were called home to regroup. Then (gnashing of teeth, here) the rascals set off 4 atomic bombs over the 4 quadrants of the USA which resulted in an Electro-Magnetic Pulse that successfully burned out every electrical circuit from Southern Canada to Northern Mexico. That meant that no one could use motorcycles or planes, trains and automobiles. Nope. Couldn't use 'em. So all the Brighton family are hoofing it west and the 2 members of the family who were in the armed forces were trying to find them. As they struggled to find shelter and each other, Saran and his minions are right with them, but the have the Power to smack them around and really upset them. I loved it. ...more I've been reading the Great and Terrible series and I really enjoyed them. However book 4, \"<+++>Fury & Light</+++>\", really threw me for a loop! I had never understood what could or would happen if \"the grid went down\" where all electrical everything stopped working. In this book 4 nuclear bombs were detonated high in the atmosphere over the four quadrants of the United States effectively destroying everything that operates with electricity or batteries. Think cars, cell phones, computers, lights, wat I've been reading the Great and Terrible series and I really enjoyed them. However book 4, \"<+++>Fury & Light</+++>\", really threw me for a loop! I had never understood what could or would happen if \"the grid went down\" where all electrical everything stopped working. In this book 4 nuclear bombs were detonated high in the atmosphere over the four quadrants of the United States effectively destroying everything that operates with electricity or batteries. Think cars, cell phones, computers, lights, water (no pumps), air travel, virtually bringing the United States to it's knees. Everyone was stuck where their car stopped working or where ever they happened to be when everything stopped. It didn't take long (less than a day) for people to begin mob rule, stealing, beating people, killing others. Very scary but very believable. A very thought provoking book. ...more Wow, finally a book in this series to rave about! I am really glad I kept reading the series despite moments of boredom. I started this book in the morning and finished in the afternoon. It was awesome. The destruction that has been threatening from the Middle East in the first 3 books has finally taken place, and we get to see how America begins to cope in the aftermath. Most books I read about the end of the world take place after the war, so it is fascinating to see what could actually happen Wow, finally a book in this series to rave about! I am really glad I kept reading the series despite moments of boredom. I started this book in the morning and finished in the afternoon. It was awesome. The destruction that has been threatening from the Middle East in the first 3 books has finally taken place, and we get to see how America begins to cope in the aftermath. Most books I read about the end of the world take place after the war, so it is fascinating to see what could actually happen. I really want to read about EMP's - I am really frightened that this stuff could happen here at any moment. I really need to get my food storage and 72-hour kits ready. Anyway, I am glad that by the end the characters I want to read about are finally together, and I feel like the real story is about to start. I can't wait to read the next 2 books. Yay! ...more While the story line continues strong and interesting as ever, there is a marked difference between Stewart's releases through MERCURY INK and the original release of this on-going story. The MERCURY INK releases (ie Glenn Beck's pub house)are edited better and formatted properly for Kindle, etc. The original releases (and I started buying/reading them as I didn't want to WAIT for another month for the Mercury release ...sorry, Glenn, I love ya, but I read quickly!) have a bit of head hopping (po While the story line continues strong and interesting as ever, there is a marked difference between Stewart's releases through MERCURY INK and the original release of this on-going story. The MERCURY INK releases (ie Glenn Beck's pub house)are edited better and formatted properly for Kindle, etc. The original releases (and I started buying/reading them as I didn't want to WAIT for another month for the Mercury release ...sorry, Glenn, I love ya, but I read quickly!) have a bit of head hopping (point of view shifts without breaks), and like I mentioned, the formatting for epub is a bit wonky. Some first letters of first paragraphs in chapters are also missing. And, it's easily overlooked, the MERCURY versions are toned down some when it comes to the Mormon references, I'm sure to attract a larger audience. Still EXCELLENT story! ...more Almost too glossy in the area of \"God-directed Coincidentals\". Think, Soldier jumping out of a jumbo jet intercepting a doctor on the way down and landing like a pillow in his lost mother's arms just in time to save his brother's life who is bleeding out on the side of the road. Chris, you had 6 books to spread it all out in! Why rush it in this one? The book started off so good, and then the excitement gave way to predictability. Let Down. What I continue to enjoy is the contrasting good vs. ev Almost too glossy in the area of \"God-directed Coincidentals\". Think, Soldier jumping out of a jumbo jet intercepting a doctor on the way down and landing like a pillow in his lost mother's arms just in time to save his brother's life who is bleeding out on the side of the road. Chris, you had 6 books to spread it all out in! Why rush it in this one? The book started off so good, and then the excitement gave way to predictability. Let Down. What I continue to enjoy is the contrasting good vs. evil. Chris also does a good job weaving in the contrast of how the forces of good and evil attempt to persuade us (the gentle whisperings by the angels of God and loud venom spit by the acolytes of satan). This series is how I picture C.S. Lewis' \"Screwtape Letters\" modernized and blended with political possibilities. ...more I love the concept behind this storyline. I find the author's take on how Satan and his followers influence us very believable. I was intrigued by, and have contemplated since I finished the book, the idea of how our world would change if we were attacked as the country is in this book. Unfortunately, the dialogue in the book often dragged. It wouldn't have been so bad if I could've skimmed through it, but it wasn't safe to skip forward while I was driving. Despite the lengthy dialogue and some I love the concept behind this storyline. I find the author's take on how Satan and his followers influence us very believable. I was intrigued by, and have contemplated since I finished the book, the idea of how our world would change if we were attacked as the country is in this book. Unfortunately, the dialogue in the book often dragged. It wouldn't have been so bad if I could've skimmed through it, but it wasn't safe to skip forward while I was driving. Despite the lengthy dialogue and some unrealistic reactions and situations, I would still recommend the book and series to other readers. It draws you into the story. I want to know how it ends. I'll just make sure I'm reading, not listening to it. ...more Another great book in this series. This time, the bad guys launch four nukes aboard Scud missiles that detonate almost simultaneously about nearly 300 miles above the United States. The resulting Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) fries every electrical circuit in America that isn't protected or hardened. Think cars (electronic ignitions), watches, computers, refrigerators, water pumps, etc. Airplanes fall from the sky and everyone in flight dies. The US is immediately sent almost 200 years into the pa Another great book in this series. This time, the bad guys launch four nukes aboard Scud missiles that detonate almost simultaneously about nearly 300 miles above the United States. The resulting Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) fries every electrical circuit in America that isn't protected or hardened. Think cars (electronic ignitions), watches, computers, refrigerators, water pumps, etc. Airplanes fall from the sky and everyone in flight dies. The US is immediately sent almost 200 years into the past but no one is prepared for it. Lack of food and water create mobs and struggles to survive in the short term. Very sobering to consider. Hopefully, the good guys are going to rally in the next book. ...more So far, my favorite of the series. I like fiction, laced in reality. Usually I find that the author will take you from, everything is good, but there's some type of mystery. To a place where it seems like the world is falling apart. To, oh joy, our hero has fixed everything, and life is back to normal, maybe even better! This series has gone from bad to worse.... I'm not complaining it is an 'End of Days' story. I've read the Bible, they're not going to be pretty. Things have gotten very bad for So far, my favorite of the series. I like fiction, laced in reality. Usually I find that the author will take you from, everything is good, but there's some type of mystery. To a place where it seems like the world is falling apart. To, oh joy, our hero has fixed everything, and life is back to normal, maybe even better! This series has gone from bad to worse.... I'm not complaining it is an 'End of Days' story. I've read the Bible, they're not going to be pretty. Things have gotten very bad for our family and they're struggling. Satan wants their souls and he's working hard to get them, but they've shown extrordinary faith and have relied on the gifts of the Spirit to guide them. ...more Again, GREAT book! Really gets me thinking about how I need to prepare for emergencies; both physically & spiritually. This book does a great job of making a fictional story seem so real. I love how it also helps you see the big picture in life. It helped me realize that God really does have a plan for me and the people I meet in life could be apart of it. Most of the time being an instrument in God's hands has to do with relationships we have with others. Anyways, this book shows the streng Again, GREAT book! Really gets me thinking about how I need to prepare for emergencies; both physically & spiritually. This book does a great job of making a fictional story seem so real. I love how it also helps you see the big picture in life. It helped me realize that God really does have a plan for me and the people I meet in life could be apart of it. Most of the time being an instrument in God's hands has to do with relationships we have with others. Anyways, this book shows the strength needed in each individual character as things in the world, and their lives, begin to change. It also shows how God is in charge and how he brought them all together. ...more Three stars are those ok books that I enjoyed but did not fall in love with. As I read a book I envision how I would make it in to a movie. I know that this book series would never be made into a movie due to its need for a large budget and it's limited target market. Don't get me wrong, big budget production companies aren't going to refuse it JUST because it is LDS Fiction, they would not take up the project because the Mormon market is not big enough to pay the bills. If the honestly thought Three stars are those ok books that I enjoyed but did not fall in love with. As I read a book I envision how I would make it in to a movie. I know that this book series would never be made into a movie due to its need for a large budget and it's limited target market. Don't get me wrong, big budget production companies aren't going to refuse it JUST because it is LDS Fiction, they would not take up the project because the Mormon market is not big enough to pay the bills. If the honestly thought that it would make a strong return any production company would pick that project up in a heart beat. But in today's market sex sells, not Mormons. ...more My friends all know how frustrated I have been with this series. Each volume ending with a cliff hanger - not really concluding. But, I am so emotionally invested with the characters that I have to keep reading to see what happens!! I was sort of depressed as volume 3 ended, but I loved that volume 4 brought everything together. [made me hope for a 'happy' ending to come:] I like the way that the author weaves spirituality into his characters. They are willing to listen to the Spirit and follo My friends all know how frustrated I have been with this series. Each volume ending with a cliff hanger - not really concluding. But, I am so emotionally invested with the characters that I have to keep reading to see what happens!! I was sort of depressed as volume 3 ended, but I loved that volume 4 brought everything together. [made me hope for a 'happy' ending to come:] I like the way that the author weaves spirituality into his characters. They are willing to listen to the Spirit and follow the promptings. I have already put volume 5 on hold at the library - 5 minutes after finishing volume 4!! ...more This book is really terrifying because you realize that something like what happened in this story (a complete electrical wipeout, an EMP, caused by terrorist generated nuclear explosions in the atmosphere) is not a far-fetched fictional idea, but could really happen in our world. The Brighton family in this multi-volume saga is as prepared for a disaster of this nature as any family could be and they still face so many problems and obstacles that they hadn't even thought about! Where does that lea This book is really terrifying because you realize that something like what happened in this story (a complete electrical wipeout, an EMP, caused by terrorist generated nuclear explosions in the atmosphere) is not a far-fetched fictional idea, but could really happen in our world. The Brighton family in this multi-volume saga is as prepared for a disaster of this nature as any family could be and they still face so many problems and obstacles that they hadn't even thought about! Where does that leave me and my family? Would we even have a chance of survival? I need to think about much more than just food, water, and clothing! I definitelly want to read the continuing story. ...more This book is really terrifying because you realize that something like what happened in this story is not a far-fetched fictional idea, but could really happen in our world. The Brighton family in this multi-volume saga is as prepared for a disaster of this nature as any family could be and they still face so many problems and obstacles that they hadn't even thought about! This book kept me up many nights! It's both terrifying and beautiful! I was bawled my eyes out as i was finishing the last 50 This book is really terrifying because you realize that something like what happened in this story is not a far-fetched fictional idea, but could really happen in our world. The Brighton family in this multi-volume saga is as prepared for a disaster of this nature as any family could be and they still face so many problems and obstacles that they hadn't even thought about! This book kept me up many nights! It's both terrifying and beautiful! I was bawled my eyes out as i was finishing the last 50 or so pages of this book. ...more I read this all in one day, for I didn't want to put it down. I absolutely loved this one, even as I was realizing wow, what devastation to our country could happen in an instant... (Makes me want to be prepared as much as possible!) But this book left me with hope, and I just loved the idea that though Satan is fighting against the light with all his might, we will prevail, for the Lord is always there, and He is always going to lead us, we just need to keep listening to Him, and following the I read this all in one day, for I didn't want to put it down. I absolutely loved this one, even as I was realizing wow, what devastation to our country could happen in an instant... (Makes me want to be prepared as much as possible!) But this book left me with hope, and I just loved the idea that though Satan is fighting against the light with all his might, we will prevail, for the Lord is always there, and He is always going to lead us, we just need to keep listening to Him, and following the teachings of the gospel, the prophets, and most importantly the whisperings the Holy Spirit... ...more Definitely the best book in the series so far. Each book is better as you go along. This one kept me on the edge of my seat. My mother-in-law (who recommended this series to me) said it would make me want to stock up on guns and gold. She is completely right. After this book, I can see why. Potential terrorist attacks go so much further than nuclear or conventional bombs. I never realized how easy it would be to sink a major industrialized nation like the U.S. I can't wait to see what happens in Definitely the best book in the series so far. Each book is better as you go along. This one kept me on the edge of my seat. My mother-in-law (who recommended this series to me) said it would make me want to stock up on guns and gold. She is completely right. After this book, I can see why. Potential terrorist attacks go so much further than nuclear or conventional bombs. I never realized how easy it would be to sink a major industrialized nation like the U.S. I can't wait to see what happens in the final book of the series. ...more<---C>Chris Stewart</---C>", "Title": "Fury & Light"},
