{"Comments": "\"Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.<---F>\" -Benjamin Franklin</---F>. The first book in the series, <+++>Pretty Little Liars</+++>,<---M> is about five best friends - Emily</---M>, Aria, Hanna, Spencer and Alison. Alison is the girl everyone loves, but secretly hates because they\u2019re envious. She is what you could call the secret keeper of the clique, the one that holds the deepest and darkest secrets of each of the girls that nobody else knows and that they wouldn't dare share with another person. During a sleepover \"Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.\" -Benjamin Franklin. The first book in the series, <+++>Pretty Little Liars</+++>, is about five best friends - Emily, Aria, Hanna, Spencer and Alison. Alison is the girl everyone loves, but secretly hates because they\u2019re envious. She is what you could call the secret keeper of the clique, the one that holds the deepest and darkest secrets of each of the girls that nobody else knows and that they wouldn't dare share with another person. During a sleepover in seventh grade, something happens, Alison has walked out the door after a fight and their best friend has disappeared. Rosewood doesn\u2019t seem so picture perfect anymore\u2026 Fast forward a few years later and the four girls are now juniors in high school at Rosewood Day. They have different social groups and none of them have talked since the disappearance of Alison. What brings them together again? Nothing they would have ever guessed. They're all receiving secret messages from an anonymous sender who goes by -A. Not just any messages though - but their secrets that vanished with their best friend and things that are going on in their lives today that they would rather keep hidden. Emily is testing the bounds of her new friendship with Maya, Aria is doing a little extra credit for English with her teacher, Hanna had vanity insanity and went too far for perfection and old habits are hard to break, and Spencer is getting a little too close to what isn't hers which is her sister's boyfriend. Unless the girls do exactly what -A says, their secrets will become everyone\u2019s news. Who is -A? Why are they doing this? Did their best friend, Alison, come back? What exactly is the big Jenna secret? These are all of the things that are itching to be answered. Read and find out. This series is for teenage girls and found in the YA section, but I\u2019m out of my teens and still enjoy them a lot. It's a light, fun and easy read that you can definitely read in one sitting because you don't want to put it down until you've found everything out to tie up all the loose ends of the story. Pretty Little Liars has drama and cliffhangers that keep you on your toes and at the edge of your seat. Next book is Flawless. ...more (I think it\u2019s extra hilarious to visualize Chris Lilley\u2019s Ja\u2019mie King character in the context of this book, especially with all of the snarky things she says, because it totally applies to PLL ) Alison She\u2019s the queen bee who knows how to make the girls feel like they belong, but digs at them to keep them insecure and put them in their place so they\u2019ll never challenge her. Ali is Regina George minus Tina Fey\u2019s writing, in that she\u2019s a toxic manipulator but there isn\u2019t the underlying dark humor or (I think it\u2019s extra hilarious to visualize Chris Lilley\u2019s Ja\u2019mie King character in the context of this book, especially with all of the snarky things she says, because it totally applies to PLL ) Alison She\u2019s the queen bee who knows how to make the girls feel like they belong, but digs at them to keep them insecure and put them in their place so they\u2019ll never challenge her. Ali is Regina George minus Tina Fey\u2019s writing, in that she\u2019s a toxic manipulator but there isn\u2019t the underlying dark humor or commentary here. She just is who she is, and she has you wrapped around her finger. Hanna Hanna basically Longbottoms and now has an eating disorder and steals things. Spencer I HATE SPENCER . No apologies. I just do. We\u2019ve all known someone like this, haven\u2019t we? The over-achiever; the person whose only motivation for doing things is because it will look good on a college application . I get that colleges are competitive and you need to pad that r\u00e9sum\u00e9, but doesn\u2019t it strike anyone else as phony when someone is doing charity work just to brag about it? Yeah, I have a little rant about that, but there are things you do out of the goodness of your heart and not just because you want recognition for; which is why people like Spencer get on my nerves. Further, Spencer is hyper-competitive with her sister and is hell-bent on beating her old records. She even makes out with her sister\u2019s fianc\u00e9\u2014and while the attraction appears mutual, that is seriously messed up to do to your own sibling. The thing is that the competition is one-sided as Melissa doesn\u2019t even appear to care if her younger sister is trying to blow her own records out of the water. Spencer is basically playing against a ghost, which is really pathetic but all too common these days. I just see her as deeply unhappy and no amount of awards or good grades will fill her Type A emptiness. Nothing will ever be good enough for people like this, and it turns into a vicious cycle of trying to one-up everyone else\u2014even when nobody else is playing. Aria Nothing really special about her (in this first book, at least). She comes back from to the states from being abroad and kinda looks down at how Americans live. Le sigh at all her pretentious ex-pat BS. Also, she hooks up with an older man in a bar\u2014actually, it seems all of the kids are drinking underage and nobody is carding in this community\u2014who just so happens to be her English teacher. Emily She\u2019s on the swim team, she\u2019s questioning her sexuality, and her parents are probably racists. She\u2019s a flat character in the book, and she seems like a token one on the show as they change her ethnicity so that she\u2019s both non-white and non-straight. Great going for diversity, I. Marlene King. What\u2019s next? A problematic representation of a trans character? Oh wait, you already did that. The Writing While not the best, it\u2019s certainly fast-paced. Despite all of the name-dropping of brands that makes the story feel dated, there\u2019s a lot of honesty in how [many of] the characters interact. This is the kinda book you can pick up and read if a few hours while you jump on a last minute flight to the beach for the weekend. It\u2019s fluffy and little pulpy, though a pretty solid popcorn read overall. ...more This series feels like it'll be a total guilty pleasure. It really reminded me of some of the R.L. Stine and Christopher Pike books that I read as a teen, and that's definitely a good thing. It's not literary genius but it's fun and easy to read. I started watching the TV show based on this series and I wanted to find out more because the episodes weren't coming out fast enough for me. I didn't feel like reading and watching the same series was redundant, it felt more like they complimented each This series feels like it'll be a total guilty pleasure. It really reminded me of some of the R.L. Stine and Christopher Pike books that I read as a teen, and that's definitely a good thing. It's not literary genius but it's fun and easy to read. I started watching the TV show based on this series and I wanted to find out more because the episodes weren't coming out fast enough for me. I didn't feel like reading and watching the same series was redundant, it felt more like they complimented each other. I have to say though, that I didn't get enough answers with this one, I'll definitely be checking out the next book. This series follows a group of four girls that fell out of touch after the disappearance of their mutual friend. They've all gone their separate ways but something is bringing the girls back together: ominous notes and texts that hint at a secret that only the girl that disappeared would know. Is she watching from the shadows, or, from the grave? I was surprised at some of the topics this book touched on : death, homosexuality, cutting, drug and alcohol use among minors, improper teacher-student relationships, and bulimia, to name a few. Obviously I'm old enough to read about these things so it didn't bother me, but I thought I'd mention it anyway. I actually really liked how the author threw in these controversial topics; it really added a real feeling to the otherwise absurd plot (absurd in a good way though! Really!) I can't wait until I can read the next book and find out some more of the puzzle. I am definitely intrigued and I will continue to watch the TV show as well. ...more Okay, I'm hooked. I started watching the TV show when it first came out, and liked it well enough. So I decided to see how the book series would compare. This book follows a former group of friends three years after their leader, Alison, went missing. Now they are getting mysterious text messages from a person known only as \"A\". \"A\" knows secrets only Alison knew and trust me, these girls have plenty of them. Despite being only 16, these girls have more skeletons in their closets than the cast o Okay, I'm hooked. I started watching the TV show when it first came out, and liked it well enough. So I decided to see how the book series would compare. This book follows a former group of friends three years after their leader, Alison, went missing. Now they are getting mysterious text messages from a person known only as \"A\". \"A\" knows secrets only Alison knew and trust me, these girls have plenty of them. Despite being only 16, these girls have more skeletons in their closets than the cast of \"Desperate Housewives\". The girls have to confront secrets from their past while dealing with issues of their present. I liked this book perhaps more than I'm willing to admit. Its a guilty pleasure read for sure. The girls are each different and have their own personalities. Aria is the \"free spirit\" who holds the secret of her dads affair, while trying to hide a tryst of her own. Emily is the demure jock who is questioning her sexuality and overall personality. Hanna is the new queen bee desperate to stay ahead. And Spencer is the competetive over-achiever who is fruitlessly trying to please her parents. I liked all of the girls, despite their faults. But I did remain unattached from them through out the book. The plot is full of twists and turns and I have absolutely no idea what will happen next. I'm not sure whether or not I like the TV show or book series more. While they obviously have similarities, they have their fair share of differences, and I think they might be going in different directions. So as of now, I like them both. Next installment please! ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ A week or so ago one of my new friends on Goodreads asked what was taking me so long to finish Pretty Little Liars . Truth is, I finished it in one day waaaaaaaaaaaay long ago, but my reaction was . . . . so I never got around to writing a review. Want a sneak peak into the world of Mitchell and Kelly and how to tell if they didn\u2019t like a book???? Yep. Not a note, not a highlight, not a comment, nada. This time the problem stems from on Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ A week or so ago one of my new friends on Goodreads asked what was taking me so long to finish Pretty Little Liars . Truth is, I finished it in one day waaaaaaaaaaaay long ago, but my reaction was . . . . so I never got around to writing a review. Want a sneak peak into the world of Mitchell and Kelly and how to tell if they didn\u2019t like a book???? Yep. Not a note, not a highlight, not a comment, nada. This time the problem stems from one issue and one issue alone . . . In case you don\u2019t already know (since there are like eleventy trillion of these books and also a television series), Pretty Little Liars is the story of a group of girls whose frenemy, Alison, disappeared during a slumber party. Fast forward three years and each of the girls begins receiving notes/emails/texts threatening to divulge some dirty secrets. Dun dun dunnnnnnnnnnn. Now, if I were able to jump in the way-back machine I would probably dig on this series. Not to mention the T.V. show. From my addiction to all things of the 90210 and Melrose Place varieties as a tween, I\u2019m fairly certain I would just lap this shit up too. However, since I\u2019m now 1,000 years old, reading/watching Pretty Little Liars makes me feel more than a bit like this . . . So yeah. This one gets a low rating because I really just didn\u2019t like it. The writing wasn\u2019t great, the storyline was juvenile and read like middle-grade material, and it was just sooooooo predictable I can only muster up a 2 Star. ...more I'm ashamed to admit I've read this book, and the only reason I'm copping to it is because I need it for my reading challenge. Pretty Little Liars is not the type of book I usually read, but after a friend admitted the show was one of her guilty pleasures, I decided to check out the book. Unfortunately, I got no pleasure from reading this, only guilt and frustration. Pretty Little Liars tells the story of Aria, Spencer, Emily, and Hanna, four girls whose best friend, Alison, disappears one night I'm ashamed to admit I've read this book, and the only reason I'm copping to it is because I need it for my reading challenge. Pretty Little Liars is not the type of book I usually read, but after a friend admitted the show was one of her guilty pleasures, I decided to check out the book. Unfortunately, I got no pleasure from reading this, only guilt and frustration. Pretty Little Liars tells the story of Aria, Spencer, Emily, and Hanna, four girls whose best friend, Alison, disappears one night during a slumber party. After their devastating loss the four girls drift apart, leading their own separate lives. Aria spends two years abroad in Iceland, Spencer immerses herself in her academic and extracurricular actives, Emily focuses on swimming, and Hanna loses weight and becomes the new \"it\" girl at their posh private school, Rosewood Day. Three years later, each of them begin receiving ominous text messages from someone named A, who threatens to expose their secrets\u2014secrets only Alison knows. The best thing about this book is the premise. In the hands of a good writer, this could have been an engaging read, but there is not one aspect of the story, other than the mystery, that was handled well. The characters are vapid and shallow, and an extraordinary amount of time is spent describing their appearance, in particular their designer clothing. The messages are appallingly unhealthy. One of the main romances is between Aria and her English teacher, which is presented as \"true love\" rather than an inappropriate affair between a young girl and a much older man, who as her teacher holds a lot of power over her. There are also implied messages about the importance of being thin, wealthy, and wearing designer labels. The writing was very clunky and unpolished. The dialogue was unrealistic, particularly when it came to the parents. There was an excessive use of dialogue tags and an excessive use of words other than \"said.\" Characters \"squeaked,\" \"whispered,\" \"spat,\" \"murmured,\" and \"threw in\" all on one page, in the course of one conversation. While I'm hardly a stickler for the \"only use said\" rule, I found it very distracting here. Instead of relying on the dialogue itself to show how the characters are speaking, the dialogue tags tell us how the lines are being delivered. Shepard also tends to abuse adverbs throughout the text. Most times they were unnecessary, and sometimes they were downright awkward. In one example, a boy \"messily dribbled\" beer down his chin. The word \"messily\" is unneeded because it's implied by the situation. I won't be reading on in the series, although I'm mildly interested to know who A is. The mystery is intriguing, but I don't care what happens to any of the characters, and I can't suffer through glorified student/teacher relationships, or poor writing to satisfy my curiosity. Those who enjoyed the Gossip Girl series will probably enjoy this one. ...more Before I being, I would like to admit that by choosing to read this book of my own free will, without compulsion or obligation, I made a rod for my own back and have no right to complain about any suffering that followed. Nonetheless, I am going to do so:- The previous holder of my \u201cmost unappealing first sentence of a book series\u201d award was the awe-inspiringly stupid Charlaine Harris , on grounds of grammar alone, for Dead Until Dark \u2019s \u201cI\u2019d been waiting for the vampire for years when he walked in Before I being, I would like to admit that by choosing to read this book of my own free will, without compulsion or obligation, I made a rod for my own back and have no right to complain about any suffering that followed. Nonetheless, I am going to do so:- The previous holder of my \u201cmost unappealing first sentence of a book series\u201d award was the awe-inspiringly stupid Charlaine Harris , on grounds of grammar alone, for Dead Until Dark \u2019s \u201cI\u2019d been waiting for the vampire for years when he walked into the bar\u201d. However this did at least have the decency , as you have no doubt noticed, to mention a vampire. <---A>Sara Shepard</---A> effortlessly breaks this record with the following: \"Imagine it\u2019s a couple of years ago, the summer between seventh and eighth grade. You\u2019re tan from lying out next to your rock-lined pool, you\u2019ve got on your new Juicy sweats (remember when everybody wore those?), and your mind\u2019s on your crush, the boy who goes to that other prep school whose name we won\u2019t mention and who folds jeans at Abercrombie in the mall.\u201d I very nearly stopped reading immediately. This book is clearly not aimed at me. It\u2019s apparently for horrifyingly vain and privileged US 15/16yr olds who are unable to describe someone of a tanned appearance with any grammatical accuracy. However once I got over the shock I reflected that if someone six years older than me feels justified in writing this and aiming it at the delicate minds of teenagers, then surely I\u2019m justified in criticising it as I see fit? And even if not, who\u2019s going to stop me? To that end, I would like to say that any teenager whose first reaction upon seeing the picture of a missing young girl is to rate her cuteness in relation to their own is in need of urgent psychological help in order to amend the way in which she interacts with the world. As the book opens we are introduced to five vile, spoilt bitches. Their leader is Alison, (\u201csignature\u201d phrase \u201cI\u2019m Ali and I\u2019m fabulous.\u201d , who is perfect and adored by everyone as well as the kind of girl who enjoys mocking \u201cdorks\u201d to their face and calling her friends fat or a slag. The whole group are not only rich, they are the sort of rich people who snub the nouveau-riche for having the wrong type of mansions and pride themselves on their \u201cnoble bloodlines\u201d. They are also absolutely obsessed with Abercrombie (which I believe to be a chain of clothes stores aimed at Sloane Ranger types and given to oppressing minorities and women) and inappropriately sexualised for their age, blushing at older boys and admiring their \u201ctotally grope-worthy stomach muscles\u201d , running about naked in cornfields for fun and playing a game called \u201cOlympian Sex Goddesses\u201d. (Having said that, 3\u00bd years later one of them is embarrassed by thinking the term \u201cboob parts\u201d in reference to a bra. So maybe they\u2019re not as mature about sexual matters as they think). Their inane nothings are interrupted when 13-year-old Alison mercifully goes missing, a fact which is reported to the police a mere 36 hours later. Nobody is particularly bothered by this disappearance, and we move on 3\u00bd years to Alison\u2019s parents throwing all her belongings onto the pavement and leaving, opening the way for a new girl from \u201cSan Fran\u201d to move into the neighbourhood and Alison\u2019s bedroom. Thirty seconds later, peer pressure from this new girl with awful taste in music has led Emily to smoking pot, in a scene difficult to take seriously as no one has ever actually offered anyone a joint with the words \u201cWant a hit?\u201d At exactly the same time Aria moves back from Iceland, where she has become a vain Hipster, and immediately commences swanning about driving without a license (on the advice of her mum), whining about how much better European beer is, misusing the word \u201cirony\u201d and sleeping with a stranger in a pub toilet. Will that come back to bite her? Yes, it almost immediately will. Meanwhile fat friend Hanna has developed into an uber-popular bulimic flasher and become best friends with the previously uncool Mona, now an attention-seeking poor-little-rich-girl shoplifter. Finally our fourth heroine Spencer is occupied being jealous of her sister and planning to steal her current boyfriend, the stupidly named English-Korean Wren, as well as talking about such mysterious acronyms as Aps, GPAs, VPs & JVs. Once everyone\u2019s teen-drama problems are set up (glamorous issues only, none of them ever has a \u201cpimple\u201d or anything dirty like that) they meander about mentioning products, brands and shops every 4th line, most of which I am unaware of and/or not interested in. Suffice to say, they all have an obscene amount of labelled clothes and expensive jewellery to wear whilst they shag their teachers, drink red wine, incongruously quote Sartre and have glamorous panic attacks at the thought of their \u201cdead\u201d friend Alison. The only interruption to this is some vaguely sarky but strangely apposite texts messages and notes each of them receive at inopportune moments, signed \u2018A.\u2019 Who could it be? Various cheesy seductions occur (the kiss-on-the-cheek between female friends that goes a little too far, the hot-tub massage on spurious medical grounds) and a seemingly endless parade of fashion designers are mentioned as we hear far too many details of the girls\u2019 wardrobes. Characters worry about such difficult to sympathise with issues as how calorie-laden vodka and lemonade is. The girl Emily fancies repetitively mentions how great everything was back in \u201cCali\u201d once every two minutes and reminisces about cutting herself in order to tick another box on the \u201cteen issues\u201d chart. Spencer continues to encourage the inappropriate behaviour of her sister\u2019s boyfriend, even though he seems somewhat of a stalker-pervert type. During a traditional teen horror movie dream sequence Aria\u2019s doorbell rings to the tune of \u201cAmerican Idiot\u201d by Greenday, which brings a much-needed note of mockery to proceedings. Unfortunately it\u2019s only one note against the symphony of logomania and status obsession. Hanna experiences the kind of drink related total memory loss that only happens on TV even though a car crash is exactly the type of thing that normally leaves a couple of memories, particularly in someone who wasn\u2019t even acting more than mildly tipsy. In summary, a lot of people do stupid things. The d\u00e9nouement is the finding of Alison\u2019s body, which turns out to have been buried in a large hole in her own garden, which was filled in for no reason by suspicious builders just after she disappeared. There is no mention of either the builders or her family being questioned regarding this, nor of an internal investigation into what the hell the police were doing totally failing to consider this possibility until the new owners of the house decided to dig up the garden for a new tennis court. This bring our 4 heroines to the same location, namely the memorial service, where they eventually discuss the matter of their knowledgeable stalker. No one actually learns anything, except that all four of them are too stupid to think to turn their phones off at a funeral. The stalker remain unidentified. Their silly dramas drag on. The secret of what exactly they did to their unfortunate victim \u201cJenna\u201d remains hidden. And everyone wanders off to wait for the next book. Most Random Accusation Directed at the Reader \u201cYou thought only girls who entered beauty pageants ended up on the sides of milk cartons.\u201d No I didn\u2019t. Where the hell would I get that idea from? The only thing I can even vaguely connect with this is JonBen\u00e9t Ramsay, and I don\u2019t believe she was missing long enough to be cartonised. Not unless US milk production works a lot faster than I was aware. I guess I just don\u2019t naturally connect kidnapping and popularity contests the way you do, Sara Shepard. Least Appropriate Item of Clothing for a 13-Year-Old An \u201cIRISH GIRLS DO IT BETTER baby tee\u201d . Which I think is a tiny t-shirt? At any rate, not being allowed to wear this by your parents does not make me feel any great sympathy for your strict upbringing. If being disallowed from wearing this is considered a harsh rule, then god knows what the other girls look like. Most Air-Headed Metaphor \u201cBefore Ali, the girls had felt like pleated, high-waisted mom jeans\u2026but then Ali made them feel like the most perfect-fitting Stella McCartneys that no one could afford.\u201d Worst Names Spencer Hastings (female) Mona Vanderwaal Chassey Bledsoe (female) Phi Templeton (female) Maya St.Germain Byron Montgomery Michelangelo Montgomery Wren Kim (male) Ezra Fitz Casey Kirschner (male) Alyssa Pennypacker Devon Arliss (female) Mason Byers (m) Most Mysterious Statement \u201cShe was a nearly straight-A, four-time state champion butterflyer\u201d Is this some type of slang term I\u2019m unfamiliar with? It later reoccurs on a magnet in the following form: \u201cCOED NAKED BUTTERFLY\u201d Which I can only take to be code of some type. Least Flattering Assessment of a Nationality \u201che claimed that all Icelandic boys were \u2018pussies who rode small, gay horses\u2019\u201d Most Unoriginal \u201cRelevant\u201d Background Song \u201cOops I Did it Again\u201d whilst Hanna steals some Tiffany diamonds. Again. Oddest Response to a One Night Stand Texting him a haiku at 2:30am. Most Childish Response to a Medical Conversation \u201cSpencer tried not to giggle at the word sac.\u201d Most Oxymoronic Description Doringbell Friends, the ultra-hip Quakerschool Overall, the book reads like a collection of teen problem pages have come to life and just happen to live in the single most unrealistic and unidentifiably elite town possible. The simplification of every example of teen angst and misery Shepard can come up with into a TV-ready series of vignettes featuring unattainably beautiful and rich heroines who are simultaneously incredibly academic and total airheads and whose lives revolve around brands and boys frankly leaves a very sour taste in the mouth. By making her creations so ridiculously fantastic the author has ensured that not only can a teen reader have no chance of seeing herself in the pages and taking comfort in relation to her own problems, but she is also presented with an unattainable standard of victimhood. What this book tells you is that not only is it fashionable and exciting to have problems like bulimia, self-harm, a tendency to drive drunk and an older man preying on you sexually, but that there\u2019s no excuse to not have the body, wardrobe and hair of a Barbie doll whilst you\u2019re attractively suffering. ...more Pretty Little Liars has been my favorite book I have read so far. It is filled with drama, suspense and mystery, but it also brings together friendship and bravery. Four best friends, Aria, Hanna, Emily and Spencer, are separated by the death of their friend Alison DeLaurentis, as she has mysteriously disappeared. They each shared secrets with Alison and one very important one that nobody could find out: the Jenna secret. All four friends soon drifted apart, but were brought back together when Pretty Little Liars has been my favorite book I have read so far. It is filled with drama, suspense and mystery, but it also brings together friendship and bravery. Four best friends, Aria, Hanna, Emily and Spencer, are separated by the death of their friend Alison DeLaurentis, as she has mysteriously disappeared. They each shared secrets with Alison and one very important one that nobody could find out: the Jenna secret. All four friends soon drifted apart, but were brought back together when they start receiving mysterious text messages from A. Could A. be Alison? Were all of their secrets about to become secret no more? They must work together to find out who it is soon, because all the information Alison kept confidential is no longer safe. <---C>Aria Montgomery</---C> is a free spirit; she became best friends with Alison, Spencer, Emily and Hanna and made documentaries about their friendship. She is crushing on her English teacher and she used to live in Iceland. When she returns home and learns that her friends have all separated, she is shocked to find mysterious texts from A. Now she learns that she must work together with her old friends to find out who A. is, before they tell their old secrets and ruin their lives. Hanna Marin is the most popular girl in school. She is dating Sean Ackard, the hottest guy in school and she is also best friends with Mona Vanderwahl, together they are the elite clique of the school and they are totally gorgeous, rich and popular, they never used to be though. In the seventh grade, Hanna was chubby, ugly and totally self-conscious about how she looked, and Mona was completely weird, clingy and she desperately wanted to be popular. They both decided that in the summer of seventh they would transform themselves into glamorous, beautiful and totally popular people and they would be best friends for life. They showed up freshman year looking totally hot, and nobody cared about the dirty secrets they used to stay beautiful, nobody that is, until now. Hanna starts receiving terrifying messages from A. that could ruin her perfect reputation and send her life spiraling out-of-control! Emily is a pale-skinned, redheaded, swim jock. She is the un-girlish of all of her friends and she is constantly attending swim practice and striving to get a swimming scholarship and go to a good school like her sister Carolyn. Emily soon finds out that she is attracted to girls, and when a mysterious text message she receives from A. threatens to display this horrible secret, Emily is forced to stay away from the new girl and her new crush Maya. Will A. tell her deep dark secret? Only time will tell. Spencer Hastings is your average over-achieving, well-rounded, athletic, smart, beautiful, rich teenage girl. She plays field hockey, does extremely well in school and lives in an amazing house, she has a picture-perfect life, except for one tiny flaw, her menacing older sister, Melissa. Spencer is always trying to live up to Melissa's greatness, be more successful then her, have a cuter boyfriend then her, but when Melissa catches her boyfriend and Spencer making out, Spencer's life is plummeted downhill fast. Then when mysterious text messages from A. start coming, it seems like Spencer's life couldn't get any worse, or can it? Read this totally awesome, action-packed book to find out! ...more \u201cI'm still here, b!tches. And I know everything.\" Once upon a time, five girls were friends: Alison, the ringleader, Aria, Emily, Hanna, and Spencer. Then one day, Alison just up and disappears. Three years later, the girls begin to receive threatening texts, IMs, and notes about their secrets, past and present. Aria is flirting with the English Teacher; Emily is hanging out more with the new neighbor girl, Hanna has a dirty way of keeping thin, and Spencer is out for her perfect sister's boyfrien \u201cI'm still here, b!tches. And I know everything.\" Once upon a time, five girls were friends: Alison, the ringleader, Aria, Emily, Hanna, and Spencer. Then one day, Alison just up and disappears. Three years later, the girls begin to receive threatening texts, IMs, and notes about their secrets, past and present. Aria is flirting with the English Teacher; Emily is hanging out more with the new neighbor girl, Hanna has a dirty way of keeping thin, and Spencer is out for her perfect sister's boyfriend. What happened to \"A\"? And will she ruin their lives? Contemporary teen lit typically isn't my thing. I'm 28 years old, and I read a bunch of contemporary teen lit back in the day. But \"Pretty Little Liars\" has always stared at me, wanting me to read it. So one day, I broke down and bought the first book. I started reading...and suddenly, I was finished! And the verdict? Not that bad! First off, I want to repeat that I am 28 years old. I can't imagine kids younger than 16 (unless they are exceptionally mature) reading this. It has drugs. It has sex. It has foul language. It has underage drinking. It has stealing, infidelity, lying, figuring out your sexual orientation, some violence, reckless behavior, and other sorts of vices and teenaged problems that just aren't suitable for the younger set. So parents: You have been warned. Now, if that isn't a problem for you, I think you will find a nifty little book. I was impressed with the writing: clear, easy on the eyes, yet I didn't feel that it was dumbed down. I whipped through this book in a few days (and only that because I had to work, eat, sleep, and drive). I definitely find the writing an improvement on other teen lit (namely the Twilight series). At the beginning, I had a hard time differentiating the characters from each other, but as I got further into the book, the characters became more and more alive. My favorite was Spencer. She was nerdy (like me), and that is probably where our similarities begin and end. I really felt bad for her, being overshadowed by her older sister, clamoring for her parents to see her and pay attention to her. Aria left to live in Iceland for three years and came back to Rosewood. I can totally feel the trauma of moving--I myself moved when I was 14 and it was rough. Hanna's story pulled at my heartstrings. I know what it's like to be pudgy, and I can understand her desire to be perfect and thin. Lastly, we have Emily, probably my least favorite, but still well done. Emily is the goody-two-shoes--she does everything her parents say and doesn't complain. But secretly, she wants to give up swimming and figure out how she feels about the neighbor girl, Maya. I thought the exploration of her sexuality was well-done. No over the top drama. The other characters--the various family members and classmates--are seen through the eyes of these girls, and they are pretty well developed too (for secondary characters). I loved Mona's transformation from Outsider to Popular girl; Andrew was sweet (even if he seemed a creepy stalker); Maya was fascinating. I want to take a moment away and talk about one other thing. A lot of people tend to assume, because you are wealthy, because you have parents and a house and go to school, that you are perfect and put together. And that any conflict you have isn't nearly as bad as, say, that student with leukemia or that teenager from the inner city (not saying that they have it easy BTW). It just frustrates me to no end to see one person's conflict undermined for another person's \"more justifiable\" conflict. The fact is, life is conflict, life is harsh and filled with trials, whether we live on Park Ave or Haiti. Each person has to work through their inner and outer demons, whether they are struggling with a divorcing parent, fighting an eating disorder, trying to get to school, or whatever. Some people may brush off the conflicts these girls have because they are \"rich girls\". They don't have real troubles, just invented ones. While that may be true to some extent, just because the girls' parents are wealthy doesn't make their situations less valid. Just because these girls aren't trying to make ends meet AND go to school or keep a stiff upper lip when they have a terminal illness doesn't mean that their stories can't tell us anything--or that our own conflicts are less important. *gets off soapbox* When I first read the back, I was glancing over each girl's \"problem\" and rolling my eyes. It sounded a lot like the teen novels I had read when I was a kid--only the novels I read never had the main protagonist be afflicted with them. I figured that I would always be an observer, a voyeur, watching these girls but never being involved in their situations. I was wrong. The story does suck you in and make you interested in what happens to each girl. Instead of being aloof and unmoving, I found myself drawing closer to these characters and wondering what happened next, frantically turning pages. As for the texts from the mysterious \"A\"--yeah, that creeped me the hell out. The book ends on not-quite a cliffhanger. It's a fairly well contained story with an obvious series bait/sequel hook. And the question I know is on your mind: will I read book 2? Yup, I will. While I love intricate novels, novels that make you think and challenge your perception of the world, I also love books that are just fun, that don't ask more of you than to tune in and listen. And that is what this book was: it was enjoyable time-waster, something to watch at the end of a long day when you don't really want to use your brains too much. If you can get past the language, drugs, alcohol, and sex, then these aren't that bad of books. ...more I've been a long-time fan of the tv show so I thought I'd give this book series a try. I don't know if it was because I've seen all those things happening in the tv series, in a much more lengthening and stretching way but this book lacked the thrill the tv show sometimes gives me. I was no surprised at all by anything happening in the book and I expected that there wouldn't be anything that would blow my mind away but I was disappointed by the fact that the characters in the book are a far-cry f I've been a long-time fan of the tv show so I thought I'd give this book series a try. I don't know if it was because I've seen all those things happening in the tv series, in a much more lengthening and stretching way but this book lacked the thrill the tv show sometimes gives me. I was no surprised at all by anything happening in the book and I expected that there wouldn't be anything that would blow my mind away but I was disappointed by the fact that the characters in the book are a far-cry from those of the tv series. The only character that the book and the character have that is somewhat the same, is Aria. I don't mean they're different looking, they're different characters, different personalities and that was what mainly let me down.. The plot was unraveling fast enough and that's the only good thing, although that was practically the first episode of the tv show, as far as the mystery goes. The writing was mediocre and I thought Mrs. Shepard would be a better author than this. Her characters are swallow (I much prefer those of the tv show) and the writing is a tad bit sloppy and it left me completely indifferent. My point with this review isn't to compare the tv show to the book but just clarify the major differences between the two. I'm most definitely sure that even if I had read this before watching the tv series I would have still given it three stars. If you're a fan of the tv series then I don't recommend you read this, I'd say stick with the tv show, instead. If then again, you're interested in or looking for some contemporary ya with shreds of mystery in it and have never heard of the tv show then go ahead and read this, you may actually end up enjoying this. ...more Overall a cute, quick read. I think (if we were able) I'd give it 3.5 stars. I wouldn't say it was absolutely enthralling and sucked me into its plot, or that it left me thinking and that the characters were multi-dimensional and had some depth to them. But nonetheless I did enjoy this book. Pretty Little Liars is the story of four ex-best friends slowly coming together in the wake of being terrorized by the mysterious \"A\" after the disappearance of their friend Alison years earlier that effective Overall a cute, quick read. I think (if we were able) I'd give it 3.5 stars. I wouldn't say it was absolutely enthralling and sucked me into its plot, or that it left me thinking and that the characters were multi-dimensional and had some depth to them. But nonetheless I did enjoy this book. Pretty Little Liars is the story of four ex-best friends slowly coming together in the wake of being terrorized by the mysterious \"A\" after the disappearance of their friend Alison years earlier that effectively split up their friendships. All the girls have secrets of their own, that the others (with the exception of Ali) knew about - Aria is hiding from her mother that her father is cheating, Spencer is in constant competition with her older sister (right down to competing for boyfriends), Emily struggles with her sexual orientation and Hanna is body dysmorphic. Can they uncover who the mysterious \"A\" is? Can they still hide their secrets from each other and from everybody else? Can they try to salvage their long-damaged friendships with one another? Reread: November 2012 ...more I've really enjoyed the TV series, and I'm anxious to know who A is (DON'T TELL ME). So I thought I'd try reading the Pretty Little Liars book series, by Sara Shepard. There's supposed to be 12 in total, but after reading the first one, I don't think I could take 11 more. The TV show has good writers. I was not impressed by the writing in the book. The TV versions of the characters are generally flawed but likable. The characters in the book are slutty or unpleasant in other ways or one dimension I've really enjoyed the TV series, and I'm anxious to know who A is (DON'T TELL ME). So I thought I'd try reading the Pretty Little Liars book series, by Sara Shepard. There's supposed to be 12 in total, but after reading the first one, I don't think I could take 11 more. The TV show has good writers. I was not impressed by the writing in the book. The TV versions of the characters are generally flawed but likable. The characters in the book are slutty or unpleasant in other ways or one dimensional. TV Ezra is misguided but lovable, book Ezra is just a jerk with poor self control. All the hair colors are changed, which is good, because nearly everyone in the book is blonde or some shade of blonde or has blonde highlights or blonde tones...yeah. There were a lot of references to classic literature and music, which seemed inserted to let us know the characters were better educated than they let on. Maybe it was Shepard's attempt to get her readers to read more. They were far out weighed by the brand name dropping. I'm not big on designers or labels, but I'm pretty sure everyone is mentioned in the book somewhere. For giggly girls who spend their afternoons flipping through Teen Vogue and Seventeen, it probably connects to them, but I got rather bored with it. ...more Who would want to read a book with a doll on the cover? I mean, isn\u2019t that for like middle graders? WRONG. Pretty Little Liars might start off with the characters in their middle grade years, but before long, they\u2019ve already bloomed into full fledged high school students with personalities of their own. Hanna, Spencer, Aria and Emily were all nobodies, until Allison found them. Together, they built a friendship, but it was all based on secrets. The only secret the girls didn\u2019t realize was that A Who would want to read a book with a doll on the cover? I mean, isn\u2019t that for like middle graders? WRONG. Pretty Little Liars might start off with the characters in their middle grade years, but before long, they\u2019ve already bloomed into full fledged high school students with personalities of their own. Hanna, Spencer, Aria and Emily were all nobodies, until Allison found them. Together, they built a friendship, but it was all based on secrets. The only secret the girls didn\u2019t realize was that Allison was the only reason they became friends in the first place. She was their glue; the only thing holding the girls together. Without her, the girls have nothing in common. So what happens without Ali in their lives? They all go their separate routes. Hanna is the school\u2019s tease. After losing weight, she and Mona have become the best of friends. Emily pays more attention to swimming. She now hangs out with the swim team, and her boyfriend, who just so happens to also be on the swim team. Spencer is still the \u201cbest\u201d at everything and her sister\u2019s boyfriends continue to flirt with her. Aria, the unique one of the group, has just returned from Iceland. Her family moved out of the country for two years. Each girl was finally able to find a place in the world, since they are no longer in Ali\u2019s shadow. So what more do they have in common? Could it be those random texts they\u2019ve been getting from A? But who is A? No one knows. It couldn\u2019t be Alison though could it? I mean she\u2019s gone, right? Whoever A is, she\u2019s definitely someone who clearly knows all the girls\u2019 secrets. The plot is very intriguing and it just keeps the reader wanting more. After reading this book, you are left with an abundance of questions. You just can\u2019t wait until you get your hands on its sequel, Flawless. Pretty Little Liars is a perfect example of a cliffhanger ending, and I loved every minute of it. ...more Hmmmm. Lots of readers love this series. But to me it read more like a shopping list than a novel: \"He rubbed his fingers over the cuff of a hung-up pair of Joseph trousers. She slid her Tiffany Elsa Peretti heart ring up and down her finger . . . Spencer's Sidekick vibrated . . . Emily struggled to operate her Nokia.\" Even when a body is identified by a ring, it's not just any ring: \"She remembered Ali's white-gold initialed ring. Ali's parents had gotten it for her at Tiffany's . . .\" As a mem Hmmmm. Lots of readers love this series. But to me it read more like a shopping list than a novel: \"He rubbed his fingers over the cuff of a hung-up pair of Joseph trousers. She slid her Tiffany Elsa Peretti heart ring up and down her finger . . . Spencer's Sidekick vibrated . . . Emily struggled to operate her Nokia.\" Even when a body is identified by a ring, it's not just any ring: \"She remembered Ali's white-gold initialed ring. Ali's parents had gotten it for her at Tiffany's . . .\" As a memorial to the dear departed, there's \"a smiling picture of Alison in a tight blue Von Dutch T-shirt and spanking new Sevens.\" For heaven's sake! Some of the issues faced by the four teen girls (the \"liars\") are handled well. Emily's questions about her sexual identity, Aria's infatuation with a teacher, Spencer's attraction to her older sister's boyfriend--such issues are all eminently worthy of serious fictional consideration. But those brand names dropped onto every page . . . from Pottery Barn to Eternity anyone? ...more That was pretty good *raising eyebrows* Sometimes a little unrealistic and overdramatic, but on the whole it was just the book I needed during a test week: light, funny and short :) 3.5 stars *Edited for slut-shaming; I wrote this review when I was like 15 and didn't understand why that was problematic at the time, but my use of the word \"slutty\" has now been removed. Sorry about that!* Original review (1/13/09): Honestly not sure why I read it, since I pretty much looked at it and thought, \"I'll probably hate this.\" Well, I didn't HATE it, but it didn't give me any more than I expected. Pretty much every clich\u00e9 known to realistic teenage literature was in it: My sister's boyfriend is *Edited for slut-shaming; I wrote this review when I was like 15 and didn't understand why that was problematic at the time, but my use of the word \"slutty\" has now been removed. Sorry about that!* Original review (1/13/09): Honestly not sure why I read it, since I pretty much looked at it and thought, \"I'll probably hate this.\" Well, I didn't HATE it, but it didn't give me any more than I expected. Pretty much every clich\u00e9 known to realistic teenage literature was in it: My sister's boyfriend is cheating on her -- with ME! I'm having an affair with my teacher! I'm bulimic! I'm secretly a lesbian! My dad is cheating on my mom and I'm the only one who knows! Blah blah blah. Basically it's about a bunch of girls with no distinct personalities feeling bad for themselves. And on every page we have to know exactly what brand of clothes they're wearing, down to their socks -- ummm, like I give a crap? Well, at least it was mildly entertaining and had a few interesting twists. I might read the sequel if I ever happen to stumble across it, but I'm not going out of my way to find it. ...more Pretty Little Liars by Sara Shepard I absolutely LOVE the Pretty Little Liars TV show, and when that show first started i wasn't a crazy reader, but i bought the first 8 books of this series. As the years went on i never thought i'd actually read them. I'll admit its taken me SO long to finally pick up this book and separate my TV thoughts from the book, but I'm so glad i picked it up! I was so pleasantly surprised by this book! I really enjoyed it. I loved how each chapter was focused on a diffe Pretty Little Liars by Sara Shepard I absolutely LOVE the Pretty Little Liars TV show, and when that show first started i wasn't a crazy reader, but i bought the first 8 books of this series. As the years went on i never thought i'd actually read them. I'll admit its taken me SO long to finally pick up this book and separate my TV thoughts from the book, but I'm so glad i picked it up! I was so pleasantly surprised by this book! I really enjoyed it. I loved how each chapter was focused on a different character, that's really unique and so fun, it also allows you not to get bored of one storyline for too long. The only things i didn't like about this book was that the 4 main girls really threw themselves at guys. I hope this changes as the books go on and the characters develop :) Im quite excited to read the second book of the series, and hope i'll want to continue on with the entire extremely long series! P.S: If anyones interested, i have a Pretty Little Liars and Vampire Diaries Instagram account: @PrettyLittleLyingVampires, if you want to follow :) ...more Okay, this series? Like a drug! I picked the first one up on a whim while at Target (more proof that if I go anywhere that sells books, you'll find me picking up one. or twelve.) and bam! I'm totally hooked. I'm hoping to read the rest of the books that are currently out while I'm on vacation. RESE\u00d1A EN LEE.SUE\u00d1A.VUELA Muy juvenil, muy yankee, bastante pobre escrito pero a\u00fan as\u00ed con gancho, entretenido y ligero. Ideal para desconectar y distraerte con un misterio interesante. A m\u00ed me spoilearon qui\u00e9n es A en la serie, pero de todas formas me gusta mucho el concepto y lo disfruto *procuren no spoilearme m\u00e1s nada, por fiiiiiiis, que vi solo dos temporadas y media m\u00e1s o menos. Y alg\u00fan d\u00eda la quiero retomar!* Si miran la serie, este libro entero es el episodio piloto. Eso me re intriga, RESE\u00d1A EN LEE.SUE\u00d1A.VUELA Muy juvenil, muy yankee, bastante pobre escrito pero a\u00fan as\u00ed con gancho, entretenido y ligero. Ideal para desconectar y distraerte con un misterio interesante. A m\u00ed me spoilearon qui\u00e9n es A en la serie, pero de todas formas me gusta mucho el concepto y lo disfruto *procuren no spoilearme m\u00e1s nada, por fiiiiiiis, que vi solo dos temporadas y media m\u00e1s o menos. Y alg\u00fan d\u00eda la quiero retomar!* Si miran la serie, este libro entero es el episodio piloto. Eso me re intriga, \u00a1de todo un libro hicieron un solo episodio! S\u00e9 que son como mil libros pero la seguir\u00eda a la historia. Probablemente lo haga. ...more So, ever since Pretty Little Liars came out on television people have been filling up my Facebook feed and twitter talking about how much they have to catch this show. Now, I watched the first episode, hated it and allowed the season to fly by without paying it any mind again. This summer however, I started watching the show and while it is still trash, it's ABC Family soap opera entertainment. Benign viewing was possible. Once I brought up my viewing of the show people told me I should read the So, ever since Pretty Little Liars came out on television people have been filling up my Facebook feed and twitter talking about how much they have to catch this show. Now, I watched the first episode, hated it and allowed the season to fly by without paying it any mind again. This summer however, I started watching the show and while it is still trash, it's ABC Family soap opera entertainment. Benign viewing was possible. Once I brought up my viewing of the show people told me I should read the books because the are \"better\", so out of curiosity I did. My reaction to the popularity of these books can be summed up as: As horrible as the show is, there is some fun to it. It's funny to see these WASP girls get their due for being the most interchangeable clique of friends on television. But the book offers absolutely nothing as a medium for this to work. It's the same as the Gossip Girl books (which I did read) or The Clique or anything in that genre. The characters have the same names and overall story lines as their television counterparts, with some improvements all around, but what was semi-interesting and enjoyable there is just dull here. Hearing this girls dealing with their \"problems\" just made me want to speed through the book. Especially Aria's story. Aria is dating her high school english teacher and where in the show it was sketchy, they managed to make Aria's character \"mature\" enough to where you could see why a 22-26 year old new teacher would fall for her. Here she's just a whiny little brat who developed a superiority complex in Iceland. Hannah is just whiny and Emily fears no better, but none of them compare to Spencer. OH LORDY, Spencer. I really loathe this character. She fools around with two of her sister's boyfriend and shows no remorse for it (except when she gets caught of course) then gets upset when she gets in trouble. Girl Please. The backdrop of their friend's murder is what the story revolves around, but they do nothing to make me more for the Queen Bee character of Ali. All around this series is dull and the characters are poorly developed. If you are interesting in this series, watch the show instead, 47-49 minutes once a week is more tolerable than actually wasting eyesight to read Life Styles of the White and Privileged. ...more I loved this book of course, however I started reading the series while I was on season 4 of the show so it kind of ruined it, and I also enjoyed Sara's The Lying Game books more. I still really enjoyed this book and will continue with the series I enjoyed this a lot, except for the looks of the girls it related to the show quite a lot! I'm definitely continuing this series. (Source: I own a copy of this book.) 3 years ago, Alison went missing. Nobody knows what happened to her, but now 3 years later, her 4 closest friends start receiving strange messages. Messages that say things that only Alison would know, messages that are signed simply A. Is Alison really back? Who else could the messages really be from? And if Alison really is back, what does she want? I watched the first season of this as a TV show and really liked it, but never got around to reading the books. (Source: I own a copy of this book.) 3 years ago, Alison went missing. Nobody knows what happened to her, but now 3 years later, her 4 closest friends start receiving strange messages. Messages that say things that only Alison would know, messages that are signed simply A. Is Alison really back? Who else could the messages really be from? And if Alison really is back, what does she want? I watched the first season of this as a TV show and really liked it, but never got around to reading the books. I\u2019m so glad I read this one now though \u2018cause it was awesome! I always think it\u2019s a bit of a gamble reading a book that has been turned into a movie or TV series, as often one will leave you disappointed. Thankfully this wasn\u2019t one of those books! Firstly I liked the writing in this book, and it seemed really similar to the TV show, so whoever did the crossover for the show did a really good job. I kinda felt like I already knew the characters as I had seen the TV show, and I think this actually made me like the book even more than I perhaps would have done, as I could imagine what was going on a lot better. The characters all seemed really similar to those in the TV show, although I did think that they seemed maybe a little more friendlier in the TV show than in the book. I also thought that the book maybe didn\u2019t cover as much ground as the first season of the show? But I really can\u2019t remember so I could be miles off here. I liked the storyline. I thought the mystery over who A. really was really compelling, and I loved trying to guess what would happen next. I couldn\u2019t really remember much about the TV show, but as I was reading through this book, something would happen and I would think \u2018I remember that now!\u2019 but because I couldn\u2019t remember it initially, this helped keep the mystery in the story. I have to say that I was quite shocked by what the girls got up to in this story though. We had shoplifting, drinking, affairs with teachers, and all sorts of other stuff, which was pretty crazy, but at the same time really good! I thought that this book did end in a good place, but there were still so many questions and mysteries unanswered that I really just want to dive into the next one straight away! Overall; a great YA contemporary mystery. 9 out of 10. ...more It wouldn\u2019t be fair for me to rate this book. I\u2019m not only not the correct target demographic \u2014 clearly tweens and teens \u2014 but I fall into the reviled substrata of the novel: earnest smart girl. I don\u2019t know how much I would have liked the book at 15, much less at 55. If you hated \u2014 just hated \u2014 high school, chances are that mean girls like these were the reason why. The novel begins with an alliance amongst five seventh-grade students who become the mean girls clique of Rosewood Day School, loca It wouldn\u2019t be fair for me to rate this book. I\u2019m not only not the correct target demographic \u2014 clearly tweens and teens \u2014 but I fall into the reviled substrata of the novel: earnest smart girl. I don\u2019t know how much I would have liked the book at 15, much less at 55. If you hated \u2014 just hated \u2014 high school, chances are that mean girls like these were the reason why. The novel begins with an alliance amongst five seventh-grade students who become the mean girls clique of Rosewood Day School, located in a thinly veiled Bucks County, Pennsylvania. The leader of the pack, Allison DiLaurentis, the meanest of the girls, disappears suddenly, and the clique dissolves. But the four remaining girls \u2014 Spencer Hastings, Hanna Marin, Aria Montgomery and Emily Fields \u2014 continue as shallow as ever; indeed, no hermit was ever as devoted to God as these girls are to Abercrombie & Fitch. They\u2019re self-centered to the point of narcissism with a breath-taking sense of entitlement, and haven\u2019t a clue as to the lives of the average American. They\u2019re virtually a parody of the progeny of the 1 percent. Occupy Wall Street couldn\u2019t come up with cruder poster children for the evils of economic inequality. Soon after the girls embark on their junior year, Allison\u2019s corpse turns up, but the quartet begin receiving threatening text messages from \u201cA.\u201d Has Allison\u2019s ghost returned for revenge? Emily, Hanna, Aria and Spencer \u2014 especially Emily \u2014 have terrible secrets that would ruin their lives. Is there an \u201cA\u201d who hates Allison and her former posse enough to reveal their secrets? Or is \u201cA\u201d one of the girls themselves? After all, who but the five of them knew these secrets? To tell the truth, I just couldn\u2019t make myself care. The premise \u2014 texts from beyond the grave, so to speak \u2014 seemed quite intriguing. With a more likeable group of girls, I know I could well have enjoyed this book. But the eponymous Pretty Little Liars had more in common with the usual cruel villains of a novel than the protagonists. You know who you are: As my friend Emily Erkan used to say, If you like this kind of thing, this is just the kind of thing you\u2019d like. Just count me out. ...more Omygod. This is seriously amazing! I can't believe that I put off this book for 2 years thinking that it wouldn't be worth it to read the series! I know right, I'm too late for this hype. Lol! But seriously, the whole ride with this book has offered me so much fun and at the same time was very frightening to read. I can feel these goosebumps whenever \"A\" contacts them. It's just so creepy. It will really make you itch to know who the f* is A!!! Oh my, I wonder what will I do if ever I got a pysc Omygod. This is seriously amazing! I can't believe that I put off this book for 2 years thinking that it wouldn't be worth it to read the series! I know right, I'm too late for this hype. Lol! But seriously, the whole ride with this book has offered me so much fun and at the same time was very frightening to read. I can feel these goosebumps whenever \"A\" contacts them. It's just so creepy. It will really make you itch to know who the f* is A!!! Oh my, I wonder what will I do if ever I got a pyscho stalker. In addition to that, honestly, at first, I really thought this book was going to be about some stupid stuck-up girls and their annoying drama, but I was waaaaaay wrong. This book is amazing and totally addicting! Overall, I loved how Pretty Little Liars isn\u2019t filled with stupid drama, but actual suspense and mystery. I loved how the characters and other elements were intricately woven that summed up to create a 5-star worthy book! I highly suggest you read this. ASAP. I'm betting both the TV series and the book series are perfect to deliver that sumptuous chill to the bone you crave for! ps. Seriously, I couldn't wait any more longer. I will start reading Flawless tonight. FOR REALS. ...more WOW! I give this five stars on account of its sheer unputdownableness. I'm quitting life for the next few day and devoting all my time to reading the rest of this series. WrensReads Review So I have already read the \u201c Pretty Little Liars \u201d series including the add-on ones. I don\u2019t really like Shepard\u2019s writing, but they are quick reads and her show is kind of a guilty pleasure of mine. I am going to do the reviews of the \u201c Pretty Little Liars \u201d books a little different. I plan to ask questions as I read the series again and see when ( or if ) the question is answered. I\u2019ll hide them with the spoiler code so you\u2019ll have the choice to spoil it for yourself! I\u2019m doing way t WrensReads Review So I have already read the \u201c Pretty Little Liars \u201d series including the add-on ones. I don\u2019t really like Shepard\u2019s writing, but they are quick reads and her show is kind of a guilty pleasure of mine. I am going to do the reviews of the \u201c Pretty Little Liars \u201d books a little different. I plan to ask questions as I read the series again and see when ( or if ) the question is answered. I\u2019ll hide them with the spoiler code so you\u2019ll have the choice to spoil it for yourself! I\u2019m doing way too much for this series, but hey, I like to analysis things and I\u2019m a little nuts. So here we go : Pretty Little Liars : Pretty Little Liars, Book 01 What is \u201cthe one secret they couldn\u2019t even bear to talk about\u201d? (pg. 004) (view spoiler) [The Jenna Thing (pg. 057) (hide spoiler) ] Why did Emily and Hannah have the same dream? (pg. 014) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] Where\u2019s Alison? (pg. 015) (view spoiler) [Maya says they found her body in her backyard (which was the old DiLaurentis House) (Pretty Little Liars, pg. 255). Her body was found under the concrete in her backyard. They knew it was her from the ring she was wearing. But they\u2019re doing DNA tests to make sure (Pretty Little Liars, pg. 256). (hide spoiler) ] What\u2019s the Jenna Thing? (pg. 016) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] What had Spencer\u2019s fight with Alison been about that night at the barn? (pg. 017) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] What does Spencer know about Alison that the other girls don\u2019t? (pg. 017) (view spoiler) [ no answer (hide spoiler) ] What did Emily\u2019s letter say that she sent Alison? (pg. 017) (view spoiler) [The letter was Emily telling Alison that she loved her (pg. 195). (hide spoiler) ] What was the secret that only Aria and Alison knew? (pg. 032) (view spoiler) [Byron, Aria\u2019s dad, was cheating on her mother with a girl about twenty years old named Meredith (pg. 100). (hide spoiler) ] How did Hanna lose her weight so quickly? (pg. 043) (view spoiler) [She\u2019s bulimic: While hard-core dieting was sexy and admirable, there was nothing, nothing, glamorous about eating a tone of fatty, greasy, preferably cheese-filled crap and then puking it all up (pg. 043) (hide spoiler) ] Who was the blonde-pony tail in Maya St. Germain\u2019s window? (pg. 084) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] 11. What does Alison know about Spencer that\u2019s so secretive? (pg. 123) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] 12. What did Ali see Toby do that was just as bad as The Jenna Thing? (pg. 145) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] 13. Who killed Allison? (pg.254) (view spoiler) [no answer (hide spoiler) ] Text From \u201cA\u201d From Pretty Little Liars (view spoiler) [ Emily : 01. Hey Em, Sob! I\u2019ve been replaced! You found another friend to kiss! \u2013A (pg. 074) 02. *Receives note that she wrote to Ali years ago* Thought you might want this back Love, A Aria : 01. Aria: Surprise! I wonder what your pig puppet will have to say about this\u2026 \u2013A (pg. 066) 02. Aria, Maybe he fools around with students all the time. A lot of teachers do\u2026 Just ask your dad! (pg. 139) 03. Aria, That\u2019s some kind of extra credit! Love ya, A. P.S. Wonder what your mom would think if she found out about your dad\u2019s little, uh, study buddy\u2026and that you knew! Hanna : 01. Hey Hanna, Since prison food makes you fat, you know what Sean\u2019s gonna say? Not It! \u2013A (pg. 096) 02. Hanna, Even Daddy doesn\u2019t love you best! \u2013A (pg. 157) [picture of Kate with her Dad] 03. Hanna: Remember the Kate toothbrush? Thought so! \u2013A (pg. 240) Spencer : 01. Spencer, Cover is an easy one. When someone covets something, they desire and lust after it Usually it\u2019s something they can\u2019t have. You\u2019ve always had that problem, though, haven\u2019t you? \u2013A (pg. 083) 02. A A A A A A: I already told you: kissing your sister\u2019s boyfriend is WRONG. (pg. 213) All 01. I\u2019m still here, bitches. And I know everything \u2013A (pg. 286). (hide spoiler) ] People They Dated / All Types of Romantic Relationships (view spoiler) [ Ali : 01. Matt (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 010) [dating] Emily : 01. Ben (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 025) [dating] 02. Maya St. Germain (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 196) [kissing] Aria : 01. Hallbjorn (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 032) [dating] 02. Lars (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 032) [dating] 03. Ezra Fitz (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 040) [hooking up] Hanna : 01. Sean Ackard (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 044) [dating] Spencer : 01. Ian Thomas (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 057) [kissing] 02. Wren (Pretty Little Liars, Book 01, pg. 211) [kissing] (hide spoiler) ] Unanswered Questions from the Last Books (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] Answered Questions from the Last Books (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] Who Died? (view spoiler) [ Alison DiLaurentis : They found her body (Pretty Little Liars, pg. 255) (hide spoiler) ] Who Is A? Pretty Little Liars: Book 01 Andrew Campbell? (view spoiler) [Spencer thinks Andrew is A because he drives by her house all the time and probably saw her in the hot tub with Wren (pg. 144) (hide spoiler) ] WrensReads | Twitter | Instagram ...more This book has officially been read by me 1.1 times. For further explanation, please keep reading. Pretty Little Liars has always been one of those series I was in doubt about everyone liking. I mean, seriously, the covers were garbage. Dolls, bright colors, fancy cursive script . . . I almost puked every time I walked by the extra-special PLL stand in the Barnes and Noble store. And then when the media tie-in covers were released . . . blech. They were even worse than the first ones. I made sure I This book has officially been read by me 1.1 times. For further explanation, please keep reading. Pretty Little Liars has always been one of those series I was in doubt about everyone liking. I mean, seriously, the covers were garbage. Dolls, bright colors, fancy cursive script . . . I almost puked every time I walked by the extra-special PLL stand in the Barnes and Noble store. And then when the media tie-in covers were released . . . blech. They were even worse than the first ones. I made sure I stayed at least ten feet from every PLL book at all times. Then it hit me one day. What if there's actually something behind their massive sale and worldwide appeal? So, on a rash decision, I bought the first boxed set. (This was about a year ago.) They sat there for a while. And another while. Every time I looked at them, I felt guilty about buying them. So, to make up for it, I bought the next four. I'm still confused about how that twisted logic was appealing at the time. I owned all 8 PLL books. Now what? While browsing Goodreads a few weeks/months later, I saw that the PLL series was expanded to 12 books! Yay! Rejoice! But wait. Why was I excited about 4 more when I hadn't even read the first 8? I told myself at that moment that there was no way I was buying the next 4. Shepard was just totally milking the cash cow, and I definitely wasn't going to feed it. This thing came to me one day: what if I just skimmed through the first 8 books? I could retain at least a little information! (That's where the 0.1 comes from.) So, I did. And then I bought book 9. Don't ask me why I did it, because I don't know why I did. I guess I thought it was pretty. I don't know. Here I am today, a quarter of the way through the second book and I still don't know why I even bought it. Pretty Little Liars is a twelve-book series revolving around five girls: Spencer, Aria, Hanna, and Emily. The fifth girl is, or was , Ali, but she disappeared three years ago during one of the girls\u2019 sleepovers. Three years later, these four girls start receiving odd messages in the form of text messages, IMs, and paper notes, signed by someone who calls themselves \u201cA.\u201d The first book depicts the girls\u2019 individual lives, and shows how each of them have dark and twisted secrets that A is sending cryptic messages about. The four girls went their own separate ways after Ali disappeared, and just now they\u2019re realizing they have an odd and layered connection. The book\u2019s premise is promising much drama and tension, and trust me, it delivers. I can\u2019t help but compare this book to The Lying Game, Shepard\u2019s other series\u2019 first installment. While there is lots of suspense in this book, it falls a tad bit flat compared to the other series. I\u2019m sure it\u2019ll get more intense in later installments (there are only 8> others on my shelf), but it was a little dull at first. The girls have problems that everyone in life faces. Shepard knows how to make characters relatable, and she does. That, in my opinion, is one of the strongest strong points of the novel. I\u2019m currently reading the second book in the series, and I can\u2019t wait to get farther into the series. ...more As I wandered through the hallowed high school halls, with a target on my back, being judged and ignored in equal parts, feeling like a space alien with three heads, my shoes squeaking on the hard linoleum, scared that I would be stuffed in a locker before third period and left for three more, I tried to picture a happier place and time, possibly being stuffed in a wooden coffin and buried six feet under, or chained to a basement wall by my ankles. No, high school wasn\u2019t that bad, but it could h As I wandered through the hallowed high school halls, with a target on my back, being judged and ignored in equal parts, feeling like a space alien with three heads, my shoes squeaking on the hard linoleum, scared that I would be stuffed in a locker before third period and left for three more, I tried to picture a happier place and time, possibly being stuffed in a wooden coffin and buried six feet under, or chained to a basement wall by my ankles. No, high school wasn\u2019t that bad, but it could have been. Hormones raging like a banshee, peer pressure intercepting you from four directions, and the haves conducting their own form of discipline on the have nots certainly makes for a warped alternate universe, one that I am glad I can safely put in my rearview mirror. If not for high school, though, and the teasing by the jocks and trying my best to blend into the wallpaper, or the painted lockers, I wouldn\u2019t be the person I am today. But for Spencer, Aria, Emily, and Hanna, they are just getting started, and I can\u2019t really say I\u2019m envious. Even if I could go back and supposedly be one of the cool kids, I\u2019d say not just no, but hell no. And then I\u2019d proceed to punch the genie in the mouth and kick him in the balls. Despite the classification for PRETTY LITTLE LIARS, this novel felt more romance than mystery/thriller with all the teenage hormones bubbling to the top of the surface. Romance might not truly fit either because I never realized how much teenage girls thought about sex. I mean, I\u2019m a guy, so we think about sex every 37 seconds. But gals think about it nearly as often as we do, probably about every 77 seconds. They\u2019re just better about hiding it. If you like a little Prada or Gucci or Coach, because you live near Saks Fifth Avenue, then this novel is definitely for you. As you pull on your Abercrombie skinny jeans and Von Dutch t-shirt, paint your lips with Chanel lip gloss, drop your Treo in your cherry-monogrammed coin purse, slide on your Miu Miu heels, stuff a Marlboro between your lips, and climb behind the wheel of your BMW, rumbling across the cobblestone streets of Rosewood on the way to your second student council meeting, the first major meeting since you lost the presidential race and ended up as vice-president, you can listen to this breezy read blaring through your bass speakers. ...more After watching the first season of Pretty Little Liars I decided it was finally time to start this series and I wasn't dissapointed. It took me a little while to separate the book from the show in my head since some of the things that happen are different, and the characters' appearances are described differently to how they look in the show! But once I got past that I really enjoyed it. Its an entertaining read just based on the characters lives, but its also a mystery too about who 'A' is and After watching the first season of Pretty Little Liars I decided it was finally time to start this series and I wasn't dissapointed. It took me a little while to separate the book from the show in my head since some of the things that happen are different, and the characters' appearances are described differently to how they look in the show! But once I got past that I really enjoyed it. Its an entertaining read just based on the characters lives, but its also a mystery too about who 'A' is and her connection to the girls. It was a little slow at first but it soon picked up! Some of the secrets these girls have are really interesting, (view spoiler) [ for example Aria's relationship with Ezra, and 'The Jenna Thing' (hide spoiler) ] . I'll definitely be reading the next one soon! ...more", "Title": "Pretty Little Liars"},
