{"Comments": "<+++>School's Out\u2014Forever</+++>What I liked: -Max. She got some pretty good character development in this book, and I enjoyed her exploring her more \u201cfeminine\u201d side, and I especially liked her date with Sam. I also liked her little jealous streak when Fang got kissed by Lissa, and I liked Fang\u2019s equal amount of jealousy towards Sam. -Iggy. I liked the development with Iggy and his family. It seemed real and not the cheesy expected fairytale ending that I was expecting <---A>James Patterson</---A> to write. I liked that his parents saw him a What I liked: -Max. She got some pretty good character development in this book, and I enjoyed her exploring her more \u201cfeminine\u201d side, and I especially liked her date with Sam. I also liked her little jealous streak when Fang got kissed by Lissa, and I liked Fang\u2019s equal amount of jealousy towards Sam. -Iggy. I liked the development with Iggy and his family. It seemed real and not the cheesy expected fairytale ending that I was expecting James Patterson to write. I liked that his parents saw him as a freak and as a way to make some money, and I found that to be very believable.<---F> What I disliked: -Plot</---F>. There didn\u2019t seem to be much of one in this book. It seemed like it was mostly following the flock while on the run as they dodge random eraser attacks that are never explained. Then they find a new home and they spend the rest of the book trying to settle in and they go to school. There isn\u2019t much to it. There is so much useless filler in this series it isn\u2019t even funny; it\u2019s just a waste of paper. -Writing style. James Patterson has the simplest writing style I\u2019ve ever come across in all of the books I\u2019ve read, and it really annoys me. There is very little description, and there is so much useless filler in not only this book,<---M> but the rest of the series</---M>, and the rest of JP\u2019s books. It was a waste of paper and time. The book could have easily been half the size, and it would have been better. Plus, the characters are a bit immature. I know they\u2019re young, but under their current circumstances\u2014being chased relentlessly by evil people, living on the streets, eating out of garbage cans, fighting for their lives\u2014I would think they\u2019d have matured a bit over the years, but they haven\u2019t. Overall, this book was just okay. It wasn\u2019t bad, but it wasn\u2019t good. It was just kind of average, and I could have gone without reading it, but if you enjoyed the first book, you\u2019ll most likely enjoy this book as well. 2.0 ...more Book title: <---C>Maximum Ride</---C>- School out Forever Author: James Patterson Page: 416 Wow, i start running with Max and the children again. I cannot wait anymore. Curiosity and excitement are my feeling right now. I have to read it immediately. Sorry, i will tell you next week...^^ ************************** I give five stars for the second sequel of Maximum Ride this week. I feel so excited when running in the same ride as Max and the Flocks. James Patterson is indeed an amazing writer. His story makes me Book title: Maximum Ride- School out Forever Author: James Patterson Page: 416 Wow, i start running with Max and the children again. I cannot wait anymore. Curiosity and excitement are my feeling right now. I have to read it immediately. Sorry, i will tell you next week...^^ ************************** I give five stars for the second sequel of Maximum Ride this week. I feel so excited when running in the same ride as Max and the Flocks. James Patterson is indeed an amazing writer. His story makes me not only flutter with excitement but also not predict what will happen next. Perhaps, this is one of the factors that make Maximum Ride become the best selling book. The story continues after the Flocks discover their parents' files in New York. Max felt guilty after killing Ari. I feel sympathetic with Max because killing someone is not easy. And to live without remembering the feeling of killing someone is even harder. Surprisingly, Ari, who was supposed to kill by Max, suddenly appeared with the extra wings. The kids have to face a new challenge, fighting with a new version of Eraser, Flying Erasers. I seem like to jump up and down with the Flocks when \"watching\" them fight with the Eraser. I can not understand why the Erasers kept chasing the Flocks, fighting them but not killing them. I wonder if the Erasers were playing the hide-and-seek. They made the Flocks feel tired and exhausted with this chsing game. I do not know if the Erasers are evil or not; but i hate the way they did to the children. Second problem in the beginning of this second book is Fang got injured when fighting with the Flying Erasers. Fortunately, Fand was helped by a group of people in the hospital; especially FBI. The story makes me become more curious because the people in FBI know exactly about the School in California, about Jeb. Even though the Flocks tried to hide their backgrounds, the FBI people kney that they were lying. After that the Flocks agreed to stay at Anne's, a woman from FBI. I'm feeling that Max gradually loves Fang, expressing through the way she takes care of him, the way she asks him. My 14-year-old Max is falling in love. How interesting it is! We are going to find out more next week. ******************* Nov 15,2008 This week the ride with Max and the Flocks stops at School. Perhaps the readers will think that the Flocks are brought back to the School in California, a terrible place for them. However, actually, the kids is going to the School where they can receive a good education and protection. Patterson partly makes me satisfied because at least the Flocks are treated like the normal kids in this situation. Moreover, the Flocks have invisible power including the intelligence. If they are well-educated, it can help them solve their problem quickly and easily. The next thing that surprises me when reading these chapters is Total, the dog that Angel brought with her, can talk like human. Is the dog implanted the special DNA like the Flocks or does the dog have supernatural power. I am not sure if it is true. However, i guess that the dog would play an important role that will help Max and her family later on. Coming back with the kids at school, they start making new friends there. The Flocks seem quickly to associate with the new environment. When reading Max, i think that the ones who cause trouble to Max would be Iggy, Nudge or Gasman. However, surprisingly, the troble-maker is Fang. Max saw Fang kissed a girl in School. Apparently, my little Max is really hurted. I feel synpathetic with Max in this situation. The pain when seeing someone you love kiss another girl is like a small knife moving inside your body and gradually cutting the organs. Jealousy, anger and feeling disappointed can describe perfectly Max's feeling then. Even though Max thought that Fang is just like her brother, she can not deny the truth that she likes Fang. Oh my goodness, Max. My little Max is growing up. My little Max is falling in love. But i believe that my Max is stronger than me.Fang! Wait and see my strong Max. The one who suppose to save the world can not be feeble... Check out next week to know the next terminal of our ride... ******************* November 23, 2008 Maximum Ride is running slowly this week. The flocks continued to go to school and discovered more interesting stuffs. The new Max still appeared in the story. I am looking forward to seeing some bad news what the new Max can cause to the flocks; but she still did not do anything. I'm very curious about the appearance of the new Max. I don't know what games Patterson is playing with the new Max. I guess this new Max will become a difficult obstacle for the flocks in the future. The flocks met Ari and the Erasers again. They were fighting each other and the flocks defeated again and come back to Anne's house. The children told her about the Erasers. In this story, Anne is, perhaps, the only character that makes me feel suspicious. Even though the author introduces that Anne is a person from FBI, I still think that she also has a secret mission when she told the kids to stay at her house; especially, these kids do not look like the normal ones at all. I wonder if Anne knows all about the kids and pretend to be a good person or she actually helps the kids. However, I am pretty sure that Anne is not a usual person. Moreover, Max is also afraid of Anne because she thinks that someday Anne is going to replace her position. Oh my gosh! my Max was asked for a date. How nice! Sam, one of her classmates, invited her to go for a movie. I like this part. My Max becomes a normal girl. Everyone also expressed some emotions when hearing this news except Fang. Maybe he was jealous a little bit, I guess. Max spent great time with Sam. I think Max felt really great even though they watched a military violent movie and I feel great, too. I dont know why but I like Max's day. The day was even more romantic when Sam kissed Max. Woa! Max liked it, of course. That night, the readers did not see a strong Max who is the leader of the flocks anymore. They saw a girly and beautiful Max when she was dating. Fabulous! Max! Enjoy your day.. ...more This review is for books 1 and 2 in this series. I feel like I learned a lot from these books as a writer. The fact that book one hit number one on the NYT best seller list means to me that the author did something right, because a whole lot of people are enjoying it enough to buy it and probably tell their friends to buy it, too. So when I read books like these and I feel like he broke some major rules in a way that really, really weakened his books, I have to ask myself, so what exactly did he This review is for books 1 and 2 in this series. I feel like I learned a lot from these books as a writer. The fact that book one hit number one on the NYT best seller list means to me that the author did something right, because a whole lot of people are enjoying it enough to buy it and probably tell their friends to buy it, too. So when I read books like these and I feel like he broke some major rules in a way that really, really weakened his books, I have to ask myself, so what exactly did he do right that made so many people overlook the serious flaws in these books. Here is what I think Patterson did right here: First, he created awesome characters that are really fun to be around, and he's good at making you love them. Second, he writes pretty cool scenes. Basically it's so fun to follow the characters around in everything they do that you don't so much care that these cool scenes don't always add up to a meaningful whole. At the end of both book one and book two, I felt that there were so many parts of the book that seemed like cool scenes at the time, but they were just kind of there, never really adding into the larger picture of the whole story. It bothers me when an author throws stuff in just because it's going to mess with your emotions when it really doesn't have anything to do with the real plot line, or when things magically pop up to solve problems coming from out of the blue and never playing into the book again. And yet I think it's a testament to the author's talent that despite these consistent problems, and other problems that I've already seen from the sneak peak at book 3 that they show in book 2, I still can't wait to read book 3, or book 4, and I hope that the series keeps going. Awesome characters with a cool voice and an interesting story concept and story world can apparently cover for a lot of problems. ...more hmm...the second installment of the maximum ride series is as thrilling and action-packed as ever. however, I think I enjoyed the first book more. the first was much more...realistic....and not so confusing. i mean, seriously...ari is back from the dead?!? okay, someone please explain to me HOW that is humanely possible...even for wacko mad scientists. and i would like to know WHAT the heck is up with jeb...why, for instance, is he saying \"i love you\" while trying to kill max at the same time? s hmm...the second installment of the maximum ride series is as thrilling and action-packed as ever. however, I think I enjoyed the first book more. the first was much more...realistic....and not so confusing. i mean, seriously...ari is back from the dead?!? okay, someone please explain to me HOW that is humanely possible...even for wacko mad scientists. and i would like to know WHAT the heck is up with jeb...why, for instance, is he saying \"i love you\" while trying to kill max at the same time? seriously, he needs to find where his loyalties lie. first he's like, \"OMG MAX I LOVE YOU SO MUCH!\" and then he's like, \"oh wait, I just made a clone of you, Max, and actually, I love her just as much as you, so I'm going to make you two fight to the death and I'll be happy with whoever wins, 'cause I care the same amount about each of you.\" Right. Okay. ...?? And what's up with this new company, Itex?? It's making no sense...what are the whitecoats TRYING to do, and WHAT FREAKING SIDE ARE THEY ON?!?!! and what was up with the regular school?? who's side were THEY on?!? what was up with sam?!? and how is anne the head hauncho of the crazy scientists all of a sudden?!? what's up with max seeing herself as an eraser in the mirror?!? and the whole imposter max thing was confusing...and the whole end part, too...and why are the whitecoats ON THEIR SIDE but trying to kill them?!?! and what do max and the flock need to save the world from. itex blowing up the world?!?! what?!?! 'kay, i'm rambling now...so, anyways, back to the point...in this book, james patterson brings up some pretty crazy concepts in, like, one sentence, and then he never mentions them again; he's expecting us to just figure it out ourselves and assumes we'll get it right with no more say on his part. um, okay?!?! no thanks!! he brings up all these plot twists, but never solves them/finishes them, which gets REALLY annoying. basically, what i'm trying to say is...this book was great. it really was. it was exciting and suspenseful and thrilling and i couldn't put it down. but...half the time my head was hurting and i was utterly confused, or i had a brain-bashing headache, or i was filled with anger at not understanding what the heck was going on. sooo...yeah. that basically sums it all up. ...more I really enjoyed this book so much more than I did the first novel in this series! I loved how funny and entertaining it was. One of my biggest complaints for the first novel had been how juvenile it seemed even for the characters' ages and the cheesy dialogue, but I didn't have that problem this time. The dialogue was so much better and kept me invested the entire time. I also liked how the vocabulary seemed to be so much more fitting for the characters. It was pretty action packed and not near I really enjoyed this book so much more than I did the first novel in this series! I loved how funny and entertaining it was. One of my biggest complaints for the first novel had been how juvenile it seemed even for the characters' ages and the cheesy dialogue, but I didn't have that problem this time. The dialogue was so much better and kept me invested the entire time. I also liked how the vocabulary seemed to be so much more fitting for the characters. It was pretty action packed and not nearly as predictable as the first book had been. I'm curious to see how the next book is. ...more This was a bit better. But a lot of things were thrown at you randomly. Many things made it seem... recycled. I think that anything else I say will be a spoiler, so I will stop here. But better than the first book. This series is a great guilty pleasure and I love the characters. Both books so far have been quick reads and I am excited about continuing with the next one. This get s big thumbs up. hmmmmm, I'm really starting to like Fang :P Book two as way more than I was expecting but also so much more intriguing than book one. Now I have an understanding to this family and who they each are, I like how we don\u2019t know everything about them, but are learning about them as they learn stuff about themselves. Of course the story is still just as fast pace as book one, but there are some moments where it does slow down, because we get to see the flock put into different situations they never expected to happen. It was refreshing to see Book two as way more than I was expecting but also so much more intriguing than book one. Now I have an understanding to this family and who they each are, I like how we don\u2019t know everything about them, but are learning about them as they learn stuff about themselves. Of course the story is still just as fast pace as book one, but there are some moments where it does slow down, because we get to see the flock put into different situations they never expected to happen. It was refreshing to see that things weren\u2019t as perfect in the flock, especially with their ages. We already knew that at times things could be strained like a normal family, but there was definitely questioning happening that you want answers to (<---B>if that even makes any sense</---B>). I definitely liked the different sides we go to see to all of the flock members it definitely helped bring out their personalities even more. Another thing I liked was getting to see them act in a certain situation that lasted more than just a day or two, I\u2019m guessing it was at least a month, but it was a scene that definitely tested each one of them and showed how they could handle certain things in life. Still didn\u2019t get a lot of answers, got a few, but\u2026.I now have even more questions! That is the only thing I\u2019m irritated about it, it\u2019s like come on, give me a little bit more, instead I just kept getting more and more bait and I continued to go after it. Definitely gonna be starting Saving the World and Other Extreme Sports tonight. ...more whoa! Nothing is ever what it seems in this book. Firstly, Ari lives. Jeb (Ari's Father) doesn't seem to pay much attention to him but later towards the end, shows Ari, Jeb is proud of Ari for thinking of kidnapping Max to befriend her. Ari still wants Max in a twisted way so he hangs out with Max II who is also an Eraser. Max is now noticing Angel's changes. Angel now likes to use her mind controlling ways to \"assist\" the President of the USA, teachers, police officers, Erasers (only for fightin whoa! Nothing is ever what it seems in this book. Firstly, Ari lives. Jeb (Ari's Father) doesn't seem to pay much attention to him but later towards the end, shows Ari, Jeb is proud of Ari for thinking of kidnapping Max to befriend her. Ari still wants Max in a twisted way so he hangs out with Max II who is also an Eraser. Max is now noticing Angel's changes. Angel now likes to use her mind controlling ways to \"assist\" the President of the USA, teachers, police officers, Erasers (only for fighting) and now announces, she wouldn't mind leading the group. Angel is only 7 yrs old. Her dog talks and she is becoming scary to Max and Fang. Max still has the chip in her shoulder (literally) and finds herself drawn to Fang (her counter -art and partner in crime). It's because of Fang and Ari's fight, they rush Fang to the human's hospital where they are later met by FBI agents and particularly, Anne. Turns out Anne was Jeb's boss all along after she takes them in, put's them in school and tries to give them home cooked meals and a normal life. At the Thanksgiving dinner, she announces \"She wants to adopt them\". After they find out she is Jeb's boss, they ran with the wind. Max get's kidnapped by the scientist for further experiements and is replaced by Max II to her flock. Nobody notices the switch...or so Max II thought. The dead give away was when she offered to cook breakfast. Fast read and fun. Next book... ...more This is the second installment of the Maximum Ride series, picking up right after The Angel Experiment. I would suggest you read them in order to avoid any confusion in the plotline. Maximum Ride: Schools out Forever starts right where The Angel Experiment left off, continuing with the six genetically engineered children being chased by their main enemies, the Erasers, a wolf/human hybrid. Max, Fang, Iggy, Gasman, Nudge and Angle continue to evade the predators in each city they visit. Max conti This is the second installment of the Maximum Ride series, picking up right after The Angel Experiment. I would suggest you read them in order to avoid any confusion in the plotline. Maximum Ride: Schools out Forever starts right where The Angel Experiment left off, continuing with the six genetically engineered children being chased by their main enemies, the Erasers, a wolf/human hybrid. Max, Fang, Iggy, Gasman, Nudge and Angle continue to evade the predators in each city they visit. Max continues to be plagued by the death of their main Eraser pursuer named Ari, who might or might not be her biological brother. She also continues to hear the Voice in her head, and is confused as to who or what it is. Along the way, they meet a seemingly kind woman, who just happens to be a high-ranking FBI agent, who enrolls them in a normal school where Max feels as though she's an outcast. Max and her fellow winged children end up releasing a bunch of other genetically altered animals onto the city, which doesn't go very far, except they adopt a dog that Angel has become attached to. He seems like your normal, run-of-the-mill puppy, until he opens his mouth and talks! You will enjoy the story and become enthralled in the portrayal of each individual child... including the dog! Overall, it was a wonderful reading experience! ...more I love the characters, my favorite character was the Gasman because he's really funny and he makes me laugh. Okay so character-wise it was the best but plot-wise it was okay. So the plot was like a big random mess I don't really get it, and there are parts wherein I wished they edit that out because it seems pointless and the story drag quite a bit. There's also so many deux-ex-machina that it was really getting into my nerves. What I mean it is not enough that one character get one superpower b I love the characters, my favorite character was the Gasman because he's really funny and he makes me laugh. Okay so character-wise it was the best but plot-wise it was okay. So the plot was like a big random mess I don't really get it, and there are parts wherein I wished they edit that out because it seems pointless and the story drag quite a bit. There's also so many deux-ex-machina that it was really getting into my nerves. What I mean it is not enough that one character get one superpower because for example Angel how many superpowers could this girl have??? Come on! Well what I really love about the book was the part wherein they go to a normal school. We've finally seen the flock blend with the normal kids, like Max having a date with Sam, Fang kisses a girl which makes Max mad because gosh she likes Fang *roll eyes* blah blah blah. It was still a good read. Love Gazzy! I hope in the next one there will be more Faxness (they're the reason I read the book so there should be more romancey between this couple). ...more I listened to the audiobook again for the second novel in this series. There is something about the story that keeps you going despite how bad it is. The writing is terribly juvenile and predictable. There is zero subtlety about the emotions each of the characters are going through. And yet I kept going. I think the main thing (if not only thing) that kept me going was the idea behind the novel. There is something so goosebump-producing about a flock of humans with wings. I loved the flying scene I listened to the audiobook again for the second novel in this series. There is something about the story that keeps you going despite how bad it is. The writing is terribly juvenile and predictable. There is zero subtlety about the emotions each of the characters are going through. And yet I kept going. I think the main thing (if not only thing) that kept me going was the idea behind the novel. There is something so goosebump-producing about a flock of humans with wings. I loved the flying scenes. The descriptions had me wide-eyed and jealous of this wings. I \"guess\" I will continue with the series, but really the only thing keeping me here are their wings. ...more This is the perfect sequel to the first book. It is very well written and I would recommend to everyone. Two words: Childhood Restored. Juro que n\u00e3o minto mas aqui h\u00e1 uns tempos pensei que a Max se deveria ter perdido algures no ar e que estava com saudades dela. Por isso imaginam a minha alegria quando vi que ela estava e volta com o seu ritmo alucinante e as suas aventuras de cortar a respira\u00e7\u00e3o. James Patterson tem um jeito natural para escrever para jovens. Falo-vos de frases curtas, poucas descri\u00e7\u00f5es e muita mas mesmo muita ac\u00e7\u00e3o. Falo-vos tamb\u00e9m de um dos poucos livros que conhe\u00e7o que tem uma irm\u00e3 mais velha como personage Juro que n\u00e3o minto mas aqui h\u00e1 uns tempos pensei que a Max se deveria ter perdido algures no ar e que estava com saudades dela. Por isso imaginam a minha alegria quando vi que ela estava e volta com o seu ritmo alucinante e as suas aventuras de cortar a respira\u00e7\u00e3o. James Patterson tem um jeito natural para escrever para jovens. Falo-vos de frases curtas, poucas descri\u00e7\u00f5es e muita mas mesmo muita ac\u00e7\u00e3o. Falo-vos tamb\u00e9m de um dos poucos livros que conhe\u00e7o que tem uma irm\u00e3 mais velha como personagem principal e uma com a qual eu me consigo relacionar. E talvez por isso esta opini\u00e3o acabe por pender mais para o 4 que para o 3.5 mas temos de admitir que a personagem da irm\u00e3 mais velha \u00e9 muito maltratada e \u00e9 bastante agrad\u00e1vel ver uma a sair-se \"bem na vida\". Max tem uma personalidade \u00fanica e divertida. Apesar de ter apenas catorze anos age como se fosse mais velha devido a uma vida de maus tratos e \u00e0s muta\u00e7\u00f5es a que o seu ADN foi exposto. \u00c9 uma personagem que soa real pelas suas mini-crises de ciumes, pela necessidade que tem de proteger os mais novos, por ter uma irm\u00e3 favorita e por n\u00e3o fazer ideia que est\u00e1 apaixonada por um dos membros do seu bando. \u00c9 uma adolescente com os seus problemas e crises existenciais, e sejamos sinceros ser meia p\u00e1ssaro n\u00e3o ajuda, e \u00e9 essa a imagem que Patterson passa dela aos seus leitores. Uma certa imagem de fragilidade mas tamb\u00e9m de for\u00e7a porque Max acaba sempre por se levantar para enfrentar os seus inimigos. N\u00e3o \u00e9 por isso de admirar que Patterson seja um escritor de bestsellers, se existe uma formula m\u00e1gica para livros r\u00e1pidos e cativantes, ele encontrou-a. Os cap\u00edtulos tanto podem durar umas parcas linhas como algumas p\u00e1ginas mas nunca s\u00e3o muito longos. As personagens s\u00e3o divertidas, apesar de tamb\u00e9m terem os seus defeitos, e esta saga parece-me estar entre as melhores para adolescentes devido ao enredo, que \u00e9 um pouco mais complexo do que \u00e0 primeira vista, cenas r\u00e1pidas de ac\u00e7\u00e3o, batalhas em pleno ar, e ao ligeiro toque de fic\u00e7\u00e3o cientifica. Apesar de por vezes ter um pouco a sensa\u00e7\u00e3o que a vida de Max \u00e9 facilitada atrav\u00e9s de certos poderes e situa\u00e7\u00f5es que v\u00e3o surgindo, a realidade \u00e9 que este \u00e9 um livro para adolescente e Max \u00e9 uma adolescente tamb\u00e9m e como tal, h\u00e1 situa\u00e7\u00f5es em que ajuda \u00e9 necess\u00e1ria e tem de ser dada para as personagens poderem evoluir e para a hist\u00f3ria seguir o seu rumo. Assim sendo, os \u00fanicos defeitos a apontar ao livro v\u00e3o para a tradu\u00e7\u00e3o que n\u00e3o est\u00e1 a melhor com frases traduzidas \u00e0 letra em vez de adaptadas para portugu\u00eas e para a revis\u00e3o que deixou escapar um ou outro erro ortogr\u00e1fico. Apesar de os erros ortogr\u00e1ficos n\u00e3o me fazerem muita confus\u00e3o a tradu\u00e7\u00e3o literal faz porque \u00e9 f\u00e1cil perceber qual era a frase em ingl\u00eas e qual era o sentido da mesma. Mesmo assim tratam-se de casos pontuais que n\u00e3o interferem sistematicamente com a leitura. Antes de terminar gostaria de dizer que adorei a ideia da Topseller de p\u00f4r a opini\u00e3o de blogues nacionais perto dos coment\u00e1rios dos jornais internacionais. Fiquei muito satisfeita por ver o seu trabalho em destaque, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 porque conhe\u00e7o alguns dos blogues mencionados, mas tamb\u00e9m porque ajuda a criar a ideia de que a Max \u00e9 uma hist\u00f3ria que agrada aos portugueses. Espero agora o terceiro volume da s\u00e9rie com ansiedade, eu pessoalmente acho que o t\u00edtulo em ingl\u00eas do pr\u00f3ximo volume promete (Maximum Ride - Saving the world and other extreme sports) e j\u00e1 estou a guardar lugar para ele na minha estante. Um livro repleto de aventura e ac\u00e7\u00e3o que far\u00e1 a del\u00edcia dos jovens. Comentado tamb\u00e9m no blog: http://encruzilhadasliterarias.blogsp... ...more Ari's live again! The White Coat is fix him. The Erasers hunted Max and the Flock,and he make Fang dying one more time. He lost lot of blood. When Max tried to treat him,someone saw them and called the ambulance. Fang's got operation and Max and Ig donated their blood to Fang. And there's FBI,interogation them. About their wings,etc. Max and the flock got false name lol and they've got interview. A woman called Anne from FBI wants to take care of them,Max had to take it cause Fang's not very wel Ari's live again! The White Coat is fix him. The Erasers hunted Max and the Flock,and he make Fang dying one more time. He lost lot of blood. When Max tried to treat him,someone saw them and called the ambulance. Fang's got operation and Max and Ig donated their blood to Fang. And there's FBI,interogation them. About their wings,etc. Max and the flock got false name lol and they've got interview. A woman called Anne from FBI wants to take care of them,Max had to take it cause Fang's not very well yet. And they're going to school. A real school! Haha! Gasman and Ig are often to exploded the toilet lol! Max is dating by someone called Sam,and it make Fang jealous. Haha! There's a girl with red hair that likes Fang. And once day Max saw the girl kissed Fang. Don't know why,but it's funny to see them jealous to each other hehe..But it doesn't matter. Max and Fang are oftten to flying in midnight to knew where's their parents live with codes that they had from Institute. Fang thought the codes it's number of map. But it's wrong. Once day, Max and Fang heard there's a parents that lost their kid 14 years ago. And the family name's Griffiths. It's Iggy's fam name. So,Max and the others pick Ig up to his parents house. Ig's live with his fam. Max and the others happy and sad at the same time. They're grew up together,for a years. Once day,there's a lot of Erasers in school,and they just know Anne is part of them. So Max and the flock live in a cave. Ok,I forgot one thing. Angel has Total,speaking dog hehe..She found it in Institute. When they still in Anne's house,Max just found there's 2 Max. The Real Max,and Max the Eraser. Max and the flock met 2 child. And in fact,they're spying Max and the others. They're kidnapped by White Coat too. Max was very mad and insist them to tell her one answer. And they said: Itex. It's a company that own half world. They're everywhere. Jeans,technology, computer,and many more. Max has mission,save the world at the first place. But she doesn't know how. So,they're going to Itex. Once day,when they're slept in one place,when Max's awake,she realised she's not with the flock. And Max the Eraser that with them. Read this book to know what happen next with Max and the others!!! ...more Maximum Ride = Marvelous Reading As leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient. This bird girl does not give up on her mission to save the world and protect her Flock. She does it all with flair and a sarcastic edge. Despite endless betrayals and growing up in a lab, Max shows that she can have a soft side too. The members of Max\u2019s Flock are tight and they each have unique talents. Fang can disappear if he sits still long enough. Iggy sees everything in white. Nudge is magnetic. The Gasman is Maximum Ride = Marvelous Reading As leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient. This bird girl does not give up on her mission to save the world and protect her Flock. She does it all with flair and a sarcastic edge. Despite endless betrayals and growing up in a lab, Max shows that she can have a soft side too. The members of Max\u2019s Flock are tight and they each have unique talents. Fang can disappear if he sits still long enough. Iggy sees everything in white. Nudge is magnetic. The Gasman is an explosives expert. And Angel can read and control minds. This group of bird kids makes an amazing team. I read Fang when it first released not realizing it was part of a series. I know, I know. When I heard about Angel, I decided to read the whole series so I could experience it from the beginning. So, guess what I did last week? I read the whole series. Angel is less action-packed and more touchy-feely than the earlier books. Not quite a romance, but certainly a change. Being girlie and all, I liked seeing this side of Max. Angel leads up to the final challenge that will be included in the eighth book next year. Seriously, I can\u2019t wait a whole year to find out what happens! Oh, and I want to see more Fang. James Patterson is a genius! He has crafted a unique series that takes on some serious issues in a thrilling way. Maximum Ride should be on your bookshelf. If you are like me, you\u2019ll have a hard time putting them down. RATING 5 Loved ...more Previewing this book for near teen-age boys. I do like the characters and the story line. My boys love books where sarcastic whit is strong in at least one character. Patterson does not fail to provide lots of zinging dialog. The graphic novels led us to these and I was unsure if they were for youth or adults because in our library some of the \"Maximum Ride\" series is housed in the adult fiction. In one of the graphic novels there were several occurrences of bad language but the rest of the grap Previewing this book for near teen-age boys. I do like the characters and the story line. My boys love books where sarcastic whit is strong in at least one character. Patterson does not fail to provide lots of zinging dialog. The graphic novels led us to these and I was unsure if they were for youth or adults because in our library some of the \"Maximum Ride\" series is housed in the adult fiction. In one of the graphic novels there were several occurrences of bad language but the rest of the graphic novels had none. This book had one \"ass\" but overall the children in the book used restrained language. This is only book 2, so I am sure I will have to keep reading to see how this series progresses. There is some relationship themes and a mushy kiss but all was not explicit or out of the ordinary. As for the story, genetically modified bird-children escape the lab and the evil genius that made them to find their families and their place in the world. The world they may need to save from the other genetically modified wolf-children that are hunting them down. There is a battle, injuries and the kids are now being helped by the FBI. Now, while at a safe house the kids have to go to school, real school. The question that remains is, is this house really safe and who can the kids really trust. ...more Fang is critically injured on the way to DC by a flying Eraser attack. They have no choice but to go to the hospital, and their secret is discovered. The Flock is questioned by the FBI, and in return for Fang's treatment, Max reluctantly agrees for the Flock to stay with Anne Walker, an agent until Fang recovers. After a few days, Anne enrolls the Flock in a school run by William Pruitt. Fang and Max date people from the school named Lissa and Sam, and Iggy is friends with Tess, another girl. Bu Fang is critically injured on the way to DC by a flying Eraser attack. They have no choice but to go to the hospital, and their secret is discovered. The Flock is questioned by the FBI, and in return for Fang's treatment, Max reluctantly agrees for the Flock to stay with Anne Walker, an agent until Fang recovers. After a few days, Anne enrolls the Flock in a school run by William Pruitt. Fang and Max date people from the school named Lissa and Sam, and Iggy is friends with Tess, another girl. But then Iggy finds his parents and the Flock must say goodbye to him. The day after this happens, Max goes into the teachers lounge, and Pruitt, along with three other teachers pull out tasers. The Flock escapes, but must head back to Anne's house for Total. Iggy rejoins the Flock at this point, saying his family treated him like a sideshow act. They head to Florida, on the way discovering the School is run by a large corporation named Itex. In Florida, Max is kidnapped and put in a sensory deprivation tank and is replaced by Max II, an evil identical of her. The new Max leads the Flock into a trap at Itex's main branch, while the original Max eventually gets out of the tank. The original Max finds her way to Itex and engages in a battle to the death with Max II. Max wins, but chooses not to kill Max II. The Flock then escapes by way of one of Iggy and Gazzy's explosives. ...more I think that I may be starting to like these books. They're not complex but they do have a gradually increasing depth to them - I could certainly see the whole plot develop in this book and a lot of potential for more interesting situations. I found this one to be quite funny at points and I'm beginning to feel more towards the flock - there's definitely a family chemistry there and it's developing nicely - they all interact and work well with each other and you can see why they make a great tea I think that I may be starting to like these books. They're not complex but they do have a gradually increasing depth to them - I could certainly see the whole plot develop in this book and a lot of potential for more interesting situations. I found this one to be quite funny at points and I'm beginning to feel more towards the flock - there's definitely a family chemistry there and it's developing nicely - they all interact and work well with each other and you can see why they make a great team. The book was full of action without it being to intense and alongside Max's internal battles, it made for easy and captivating reading. I do think that Ari could've been explored some more in this book (Though I see this happening further on into the series) as well as the situation with Iggy's parents and the double who was introduced - they did feel as though they were a little skimmed over and could've been made much more effective. I didn't find this book as juvenile as the first, most probably because I am more adjusted to the story and characters, and I look forward to reading Saving the World and Other Extreme Sports at some point. ...more This book was no doubt a 5 star book! This book never had a single dull moment, and was full of action packed chapters. I can't believe how incredibly well James Patterson can write. He can write suspense and cliff hangers better than most other authors that I have read. Thoroughly enjoyed this book, and can't wait to read the next one! Huh. The writing style's the same, the characters are the same, and I feel the plot hasn't moved on much, despite this being a 400+ book. Sure they got a few ideas and info and whatever else they need to \"save the world,\" but...I don't know. I just feel that reading such a long book should have given me more things to be excited about. Unfortunately, no. I still feel no attachments to the lead guys, mostly Max. (view spoiler) [In fact, during that time when she was fighting with the fake Max, I wan Huh. The writing style's the same, the characters are the same, and I feel the plot hasn't moved on much, despite this being a 400+ book. Sure they got a few ideas and info and whatever else they need to \"save the world,\" but...I don't know. I just feel that reading such a long book should have given me more things to be excited about. Unfortunately, no. I still feel no attachments to the lead guys, mostly Max. (view spoiler) [In fact, during that time when she was fighting with the fake Max, I wanted her to get a really good beating and be almost helpless and suffering and simply quite dying, you know? (hide spoiler) ] She's just so sarcastic it's not funny anymore. And she could really be a major pushover that I rolled my eyes for about five times because of her decision-making. She's not the type of leader I want; I don't understand why her beloved flock keeps following her. And honestly? I can't sympathize with her feelings, whether they may be love, friendship, anger, or hatred. ...more This book is perfect for two occassions. 1. The short chapters are great for trying to convince the reluctant reader or the short attention span teenager to pick up something and read. Plus the heroes have cool wings and the main character is a girl. Kudos for that. 2. For adult readers of YA fiction it is perfect bathroom reading, again the 2 page chapters are the perfect length, plus even after not looking at the book for long periods of time it's not that difficult to figure out what is going This book is perfect for two occassions. 1. The short chapters are great for trying to convince the reluctant reader or the short attention span teenager to pick up something and read. Plus the heroes have cool wings and the main character is a girl. Kudos for that. 2. For adult readers of YA fiction it is perfect bathroom reading, again the 2 page chapters are the perfect length, plus even after not looking at the book for long periods of time it's not that difficult to figure out what is going on, since it's basically good guy mutant birds trying to run away from bad guy mutant dogs. I do feel that the short chapters are somewhat derogatory in tone as if the author is convinced that all young adults don't read so he must talk down to them. The writing was too choppy, which is why it is only good for those quick jaunts to the bathroom. Fine in small doses and long reprieves. ...more I can't remember what I rated the first book, but it feels like I enjoyed this book more then the first. Not much more but a little more. I am irked again at the writing style, and the short short chapters, and the the way it feels he his talking down to the young adult reader. But hey that could be just me and to be honest I have yet to read adult books by him. But anyways, things are about to change for Max and her flock as Fang gets injured on their journey. FBI, School, (view spoiler) [ Ari b I can't remember what I rated the first book, but it feels like I enjoyed this book more then the first. Not much more but a little more. I am irked again at the writing style, and the short short chapters, and the the way it feels he his talking down to the young adult reader. But hey that could be just me and to be honest I have yet to read adult books by him. But anyways, things are about to change for Max and her flock as Fang gets injured on their journey. FBI, School, (view spoiler) [ Ari back from the dead (hide spoiler) ] . Meh will I pick up book 3? Well this was a library book, so maybe *shrug* if you know I need it for a challenge? ...more I read this extremely fast. I wished there was a little more character development, but it was interesting, and I can't wait to read the next one (as well as the adult books this series is based on). Hahaha ... Deleting my old review of this because it was painfully embarrassing. Let's just say, I used to love this book/series. And now ... not so much. So yeah. Perhaps I'll eventually write a more detailed review for this one, but probably not. I really like this series. It is action-packed and adventurous. It is a great book. The chapters are a little short but that is why there is a lot or chapters. Worst ending ever! Everything else was okay but god the ending ruined it for me. I finally stopped reading this - I just couldn't stay interested.<+++>School's Out\u2014Forever</+++>", "Title": "School's Out\u2014Forever"},
