{"Comments": "Set in my fictional town of Harmony, Indiana, many have called this novel my best work to date.<---F> I am quite proud of it</---F>. And seeing Robby Miller (<---B>The Wide Game, Cinema of Shadows</---B>) interact with Earl Preston (Poseidon's Children) is a ton of fun! 4.5 stars, rounded up for the fantastic cover work! (That is the first time I've ever rounded up for that)! Harmony, Indiana. This is Book 3 that takes place in this local, where the veil between worlds seems unusually thin. I enjoyed Book 2 (CINEMA OF SHADOWS), but have to say that SPOOK HOUSE was even better, IMHO. The action and atmosphere slap you in the face right from the get-go. The build up of tension,<---M> divergence into \"Lovecraftian\" lore</---M>, and the actual \"evil\" itself were extremely well c 4.5 stars, rounded up for the fantastic cover work! (That is the first time I've ever rounded up for that)! Harmony, Indiana. This is Book 3 that takes place in this local, where the veil between worlds seems unusually thin. I enjoyed Book 2 (CINEMA OF SHADOWS), but have to say that SPOOK HOUSE was even better, IMHO. The action and atmosphere slap you in the face right from the get-go. The build up of tension, divergence into \"Lovecraftian\" lore, and the actual \"evil\" itself were extremely well crafted. I plan on looking up other books available from <---A>Michael</---A> West immediately. Recommended. ...more \"<+++>Spook House</+++>\" is a refreshing dose of \"small town\" horror at it's best. This is a story that brings to mind classics such as \"Children of the Corn\" and \"Pet Cemetery\". Michael West does a wonderful job of blending just enough lore and magic into his beasties to make them seem authentically otherworldly; without overwhelming the reader with a laborious back-story as to their who's and why's. This gives the reader a chance to fill in those blanks in his or her own mind, elevating him or her from \"<+++>Spook House</+++>\" is a refreshing dose of \"small town\" horror at it's best. This is a story that brings to mind classics such as \"Children of the Corn\" and \"Pet Cemetery\". Michael West does a wonderful job of blending just enough lore and magic into his beasties to make them seem authentically otherworldly; without overwhelming the reader with a laborious back-story as to their who's and why's. This gives the reader a chance to fill in those blanks in his or her own mind, elevating him or her from mere spectator to full on creative participant in the thrilling experience that is this heart-stopping read. Though the action begins at the old Fuller House, readers will be happy to find that the action is not tethered to or even centered there for the most part. This book's author really knows how to spread his blood and gore around, making each scene more vivid than the last. The fact that the story takes place over a three month period, with each month marking its own part within the book gives the reader a clear understanding of where the beginning, middle, and end of the story are. This helps the reader to remain focused and engrossed on what lies just beyond that next chapter. The characters on this read are very easy to love. Even the ones that you come to realize that you should hate. This is not a book in which the motives or good or bad guys come with neon signs and directions. Readers have no idea that the \"bad thing\" is at the door until the unsuspecting character they are reading is on the floor bleeding. The way that the characters speak and relate to each other is very believable. Mr. West writes his cast with a spirit and humor that is very true to the Midwest. This book is the third in the Harmony Indiana series, though it reads as though it were a stand-alone. The first two books in the series are: The Wide Game and Cinema of Shadows. This reviewer would recommend this book and this series to the serious horror buff and the novice alike. These delectably devilish dramas make for fun and fright filled reading. ...more When the Wide Game was released, I found it impossible to think that Michael West could write a book I enjoyed more. But he did. Spook House is an amazing story, with characters that are real, behave believably, and are lovable. West's imagination truly takes flight in this episode of his Harmony novels. He creates monsters that are unique and then manifests them in a way that is completely plausible-- making this his scariest ride yet. As with all West writing, the exposition is smooth and flawl When the Wide Game was released, I found it impossible to think that Michael West could write a book I enjoyed more. But he did. Spook House is an amazing story, with characters that are real, behave believably, and are lovable. West's imagination truly takes flight in this episode of his Harmony novels. He creates monsters that are unique and then manifests them in a way that is completely plausible-- making this his scariest ride yet. As with all West writing, the exposition is smooth and flawless; the descriptions are detailed enough, and yet never boring. The illustrations are unbelievably right on, giving a window to precisely what West describes, as if Matthew Perry got inside West's head and pulled the images out. From the first chapter, the story is high energy, and one immediately feels connected with the main character. The action will keep you turning the pages, as quickly as you can. I am not sure I will ever be able to enter an abandoned farm house again! I don't want to give away too much of the story: JUST READ IT! You won't be sorry!! ...more Harmony, Indiana is to Michael West what Castle Rock, Maine is to Stephen King. It's a beautiful little all-American town, populated by good, old-fashioned, ordinary folk. It's a friendly town, where the citizens aren't embarrassed to come to one another's aid. It's also a place with deep, dark, dirty secrets tucked carefully away, just out of sight. Secrets like serial killers, haunted farmhouses, Lovecraftian monsters, bloody rituals, and a history of gruesome deaths . . . all of which feature Harmony, Indiana is to Michael West what Castle Rock, Maine is to Stephen King. It's a beautiful little all-American town, populated by good, old-fashioned, ordinary folk. It's a friendly town, where the citizens aren't embarrassed to come to one another's aid. It's also a place with deep, dark, dirty secrets tucked carefully away, just out of sight. Secrets like serial killers, haunted farmhouses, Lovecraftian monsters, bloody rituals, and a history of gruesome deaths . . . all of which feature in Spook House, the latest Harmony tale from Michael West This is another solid West thriller, gruesome, bloody, scary, and fun. The opening scene is right out of a classic horror flick, complete a \"don't go in there!\" sentiment shared by the characters as well as the reader. The scene in the basement of the Fuller House is matched only by the scene outside, where the gloriously grotesque spider-dog comes fully to the forefront. The emotional high point of the novel for me was the scene in which a young woman is sent by her father to let the dog in at the back door. It's one of those \"don't open the door!\" kind of moments, but even the most jaded reader can't anticipate the horror about to descend upon the family - even if a fortunate accident does provide the means to end the threat of the spider-dog once and for all. Sheri and Robby are strong characters, vulnerable and damaged in their own way, but with a hidden strength that drives the story forward. There are sparks there, but West wisely allows them to smoulder in the background, never allowing the prospect of romance to distract from the horror. As for Cayden, the Irish serial killer who's come to finish what Fuller started, he's almost too charming. He's funny, clever, and almost likeable . . . until he starts slaying young women to 'slip into their skin' (literally) in order to open the portal to Hell. As for the climax, it's absolutely brilliant. Once again, West manages to pull off a finale that's more than worthy of the horrors leading up to it. If you've ever doubted that Super Soaker water guns, trucks full off road salt, bags of saline solution, and a cheesy Halloween haunted house set-up could be scary, then you need to give this a read - even if just to see how history comes full-circle, and how the victims become the heroes. Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins ...more The thing that drew me to this book, was the fantastic art on the cover. I am glad that I took the chance to read Spook House. This is the third book in the Harmony series. I have not read the other two books, but this book can stand alone by itself. Spook House is a very creepy story with plenty of blood and guts. The book includes stranger looking monsters that live in this old haunted house. The ancient evil that lies within the Fuller House walls keeps building and building until the story f The thing that drew me to this book, was the fantastic art on the cover. I am glad that I took the chance to read Spook House. This is the third book in the Harmony series. I have not read the other two books, but this book can stand alone by itself. Spook House is a very creepy story with plenty of blood and guts. The book includes stranger looking monsters that live in this old haunted house. The ancient evil that lies within the Fuller House walls keeps building and building until the story finally explodes on Halloween night. Michael West is an excellent writer and a great storyteller. I plan on checking out another works by this author. I would recommend this book! ...more This is a very tough review for me to write. Do I treat this book with the same thorough criticism I reserve for established masters of the craft, or do I view it as the work of a very talented emerging author still perfecting the art of the novel? I'm going to try to straddle that line. First off, I'm giving an extra star right off the bat for that cover - hands downs the best cover art I've seen in years. I didn't read a word about the book or the author, but went straight to the net and ordere This is a very tough review for me to write. Do I treat this book with the same thorough criticism I reserve for established masters of the craft, or do I view it as the work of a very talented emerging author still perfecting the art of the novel? I'm going to try to straddle that line. First off, I'm giving an extra star right off the bat for that cover - hands downs the best cover art I've seen in years. I didn't read a word about the book or the author, but went straight to the net and ordered the limited edition, signed hardcover with beautiful extra art prints included. It's a thing of beauty, and looks amazing on my shelf. But how about the book itself? It started off strong, really strong. The writing is clear and lucid throughout, and I found myself pulled right into the story. Very cinematic and engaging, as the cover promised. So far so good. I like this author quite a bit. My summary review is this: I enjoyed this book quite a bit, and am not sorry at all that I read it. *Everything that follows is nitpicking. If you like what you've read so far, then read no more!* More full disclosure information: at the risk of alienating myself from half the horror community fanbase, I'm just going to come out and say that I am not a fan of the Lovecraftian school of horror. Ancient gods and transdimensional evil with tentacles just doesn't scare or interest me. Maybe I've eaten enough calamari in my life that encounters with the Kraken do little more than make me think of having an appetizer at The Capital Grille. That's just me. So keep that in mind when you read on. Maybe my lack of love for Lovecraft has influenced my review. This book draws its baddies from the Lovecraftian tradition, so that deflated my interest a bit. But more than that, throughout the book I felt almost a complete lack of tension or suspense. Creatures simply leap at the main characters or engage in evil acts with little buildup or suspense. The tone of the book is so light and jovial that it never really achieves a true feeling of evil or darkness, it really does have the feel of a \"spook house\" throughout. With only a couple of exceptions (the scenes of a farmer hearing noises in the night is excellent, as is a scene with a father and daughter), there is never a feeling of dread or fear. It never turns the laughter into screams. Maybe that is the intention? There is a fair amount of \"Scooby Doo\" logic going on. The world as we know it doesn't seem to exist outside of Harmony, Indiana, just like Scooby Doo is often confined to the city of Crystal Cove. Gruesome murders of livestock and teens doesn't interest the feds for some reason, everything is just left up to the local sheriff, paramedic and dogcatcher here, apparently. Even after monsters viciously kill several people, our feckless monster hunters run off in pursuit on a whim and a prayer with extremely implausable weaponry, no plan B if their assumptions aren't correct. All this serves to bring the perceived reality in the book down to the level of a Saturday morning cartoon, and if that's the intent - then well done. Readers should probably know that going in, though. I have a feeling that part of the reason for this lack of investment in characters' well being is that Spook House can't seem to decide who the main character actually is, who the reader should empathize with and root for. Much like STAR WARS EPISODE 1, this book follows way too many different story lines through way too many different points of view, and this dilutes the reader's investment in any given character. I understand that the author was trying to tie this book into previous novels he had written and is creating an overarching narrative thread, but it's my opinion that this book should have been Sheri's story, and if the reader could have spent more time with that character and seen the adventure primarily unfold through her eyes, the impact of the end would have been much greater. As it is, the story is told through a densly populated character list whose personalities blend together so much that I lost track of who was who. Michael West made an attempt at fan service with naming characters using the surnames of famous genre personalities, but I found character names such as \"Mancuso\" and \"Dr. King\" to be more distracting than amusing. This sort of thing was cute when Silent Hill did it over a decade ago, not very fresh today. My other gripe was the main baddie, an Irishman who seems to have leapt straight out of a box of Lucky Charms. His incessant dropping of Irish words into conversations was charming at first, but after the twentieth \"lass\" it grew to be tiresome. The scene with him picking up a girl in a bar was very well writen and effective, though. All that being said, and really this is just more an analytical deconstruction than a review at this point - I did find a lot to enjoy about this book. The writing was crisp and clear, very visual, not nearly as evil, scary or twisted as I'm used to. Despite a little tame violence and awkward cursing here or there, this story could easily be adapted into a kick-ass Scooby Doo cartoon. If you are looking for a brisk, lighthearted read with limited scares and originality, this might be the book for you. The author is certainly a very talented writer, and the cover is worth the purchase price alone. ...more Woohoo!!! Okay okay..need to get my thoughts straight here... I think i will be starting with the book cover saying it's pure awesomeness? Easily my favorite cover from Seventh Star Press. And it could totally be a poster for a horror movie which leads us to the second part...the story. I'm new to the horror genre as i am known for being easily scared. Still i wanted to try the book so here i am. Michael West starts by giving you some interesting facts about horror houses and starts with a \"class Woohoo!!! Okay okay..need to get my thoughts straight here... I think i will be starting with the book cover saying it's pure awesomeness? Easily my favorite cover from Seventh Star Press. And it could totally be a poster for a horror movie which leads us to the second part...the story. I'm new to the horror genre as i am known for being easily scared. Still i wanted to try the book so here i am. Michael West starts by giving you some interesting facts about horror houses and starts with a \"classic\" scene at the horror house of our story. It spooks you literally from the first moment and keeps you at the edge of your seat the whole time. It's creepy, violent (monster violence that is), excited and full of mystery. It's exactly what that kind of stories need, written or live action, and as a result you have a really great read at your hands. You follow the POV of various characters and see the story and their beliefs of what's happening. Each small part different than each other, giving you insight but still leaving you in the dark. It's funny how you also see characters doing things, that when you watch the movie you say \"nooo don't do it\" and they actually know they are about to do the certain action. But it's human nature and there are some things we can't say no. And maybe that's why it's so easy to get in the story and connect with them in a way. In the end it was a book that gave me the chills and made me wanna try more of the both the genre and the author. And if you worry, about being 3rd in a series no worries. You can read it alone too. P.S: I think that fans of Supernatural might like it. It was like its first seasons but darker and more violent and spooky. ...more Full, non-spoiler review courtesy through Online Book Tour at Book & Movie Dimension a Blog Spook House turned out to be what would think of as a cult classic. We actually get some scary monsters and we are introduced into some fun characters-that make you laugh and you'd just love to know more! Our story with Spook House begins with a couple, Jeff and Sheri, who decide to take a look at Harmony, Indiana's own haunted house or spook house. Jeff goes inside but not Sheri out of being fearful of Full, non-spoiler review courtesy through Online Book Tour at Book & Movie Dimension a Blog Spook House turned out to be what would think of as a cult classic. We actually get some scary monsters and we are introduced into some fun characters-that make you laugh and you'd just love to know more! Our story with Spook House begins with a couple, Jeff and Sheri, who decide to take a look at Harmony, Indiana's own haunted house or spook house. Jeff goes inside but not Sheri out of being fearful of the house. Jeff inside the spook house unlocks some monsters who soon set out to try to get to Sheri but luckily she manages to survive. Yet, now she knows what is out in the dark of Harmony, Indiana. Spook House has such a good start from the beginning. We are drawn into the story that is to unfold since right off we are introduced to some terrifying monsters! And they very much are. Although, what makes this an amazing read is the mystery and interpersonal relationships between the characters. Michael West have to say is a true Horror writer. He builds immense suffocating suspense and terror in his book, Spook House, which is something you want in a Horror book. As a frequent book blogger (meaning read maybe 3 books in 4 days-about a week- which then review) have no doubt Spook House will be a hit with readers. It's sure to have its following. Overall: Amazing read! Genre: Horror, Mystery & Suspense ...more Harmony Indiana is one of those places where the veil between worlds grows thin and mysteries seep in. Or they creep, crawl, drip or claw, depending on just which mysteries you\u2019re thinking about. It\u2019s a scary place where an EMT is haunted by his past, a haunted house hides more than it seems, and a cop hopes he\u2019ll live to see his wife again. And it\u2019s the sort of place that doesn\u2019t let you go when it\u2019s drawn you in. Michael West writes the sort of books that won\u2019t let you go either, from Cinema o Harmony Indiana is one of those places where the veil between worlds grows thin and mysteries seep in. Or they creep, crawl, drip or claw, depending on just which mysteries you\u2019re thinking about. It\u2019s a scary place where an EMT is haunted by his past, a haunted house hides more than it seems, and a cop hopes he\u2019ll live to see his wife again. And it\u2019s the sort of place that doesn\u2019t let you go when it\u2019s drawn you in. Michael West writes the sort of books that won\u2019t let you go either, from Cinema of Shadows set in the dark of Harmony's soon-to-be-demolished theater, to Spook House, set in the forests and fields outside town. Campfire scares are reflected in the eyes of scared inhabitants. And each familiar character might be greeted with a smile of recognition or clutched onto for support as the terrors pile higher. Beautifully timed with moments of peace and mystery interspersed among gruesome horror, nicely rounded with backstories so sparingly told they add depth without increasing length, and hauntingly evocative with gorgeous scenery behind the gathering gloom, Spook House lends a whole new dimension to the idea of a haunted house, and will keep both new readers and long-time fans glued to the pages. Or stuck to them with curious slime perhaps\u2026 A writer to watch, a novel to enjoy, and a place to avoid on the map: Spook House, Harmony, Indiana, USA. Disclosure: I was given a free ecopy of this novel, and I\u2019m writing my honest review. I honestly loved it. ...more Spook House is a spooky read which keeps you on the edge of you seat. It\u2019s a perfect Halloween read and definitely not for the squeamisch. In the small town of Harmony strange things are happening. In an old house a man disappears and his girlfriend is attacked by something she can only discribe as a spider dog. And these are not the only people who get attacked and a man is on his way to Harmony with nothing good on his mind. Spook House is a fast read. It was really hard to sat the book aside o Spook House is a spooky read which keeps you on the edge of you seat. It\u2019s a perfect Halloween read and definitely not for the squeamisch. In the small town of Harmony strange things are happening. In an old house a man disappears and his girlfriend is attacked by something she can only discribe as a spider dog. And these are not the only people who get attacked and a man is on his way to Harmony with nothing good on his mind. Spook House is a fast read. It was really hard to sat the book aside once I started reading. Micheal West makes sure you are sucked into the tory and just doesn\u2019t let go. I was sitting on the edge of my seat just to see if they would survive. The writing is smooth and gives the story that extra spooky atosphere which makes this such a great Haloween read. Also I liked the characters, I didn\u2019t have a moment where I thought they should die just because of the stupidity that characters may have in horror stories and I am good to be cheering for someones death when it comes to stupidity and characters. Allthough this is the third book in a series that\u2019s not a problem to enjoy this story. Spook House is the first book I read by Michael West and I absolutely enjoyed this one and will definitely be picking up his other books. ...more The house was not spooky. There were no ghouls or ghosts. There was a crack in the wall, housing supernatural hosts. We studied, we learned, then decided to burn. The house to the ground, leaving Harmony safe and sound. by Nikki Where did these reviews come from? I wonder. This read started out so strong and became a comical tragedy. I might be harsh, but what the hell happened? The story fell hard after the initial monster killing and became this big Lovecraf-tian chat-fest. Why, why, why, must we talk The house was not spooky. There were no ghouls or ghosts. There was a crack in the wall, housing supernatural hosts. We studied, we learned, then decided to burn. The house to the ground, leaving Harmony safe and sound. by Nikki Where did these reviews come from? I wonder. This read started out so strong and became a comical tragedy. I might be harsh, but what the hell happened? The story fell hard after the initial monster killing and became this big Lovecraf-tian chat-fest. Why, why, why, must we talk it out, hold hands, go to the library, talk it over with some scientific people, then have a bash at the place where it all started? The writer has potential, but this is the 3rd book in the series, so just how long should one hold out in the hopes that an author will get it right. There was no substance during the middle of this book what-so-ever. And for goodness sake the \"house\" was not spooky! ...more As much as I love reading a great horror novel, I love watching horror movies as well. Now that I have young children, I don't get to watch many (any!) horror flicks. Michael West's Harmony, Indiana books are a great combination of both worlds. The fun and the scares are much like watching a horror movie. The movie references scattered throughout are an added bonus as well. Spook House is a great book to read this time of year. The Halloween tie-in was more subtle than I expected; you could defin As much as I love reading a great horror novel, I love watching horror movies as well. Now that I have young children, I don't get to watch many (any!) horror flicks. Michael West's Harmony, Indiana books are a great combination of both worlds. The fun and the scares are much like watching a horror movie. The movie references scattered throughout are an added bonus as well. Spook House is a great book to read this time of year. The Halloween tie-in was more subtle than I expected; you could definitely curl up with this one any time of the season. If you haven't read anything by Michael West, Spook House is a perfect place to start. His Harmony, Indiana books are stand alone and entertaining in any order you choose to read them. Although, after reading Spook House, you will likely have a strong desire to pick up The Wide Game next. ...more The Hesitation Before The very first thing that must be mentioned is that while this is the third book in the series, you do not need to read the first two books in the series to understand and enjoy this book. I didn\u2019t and I still really enjoyed this book and everything that it had to offer. It has been a long time since I have read anything quite like this book before and I am so glad that I signed up for this tour as it gave me a chance to get back into this genre. I found this book to be thor The Hesitation Before The very first thing that must be mentioned is that while this is the third book in the series, you do not need to read the first two books in the series to understand and enjoy this book. I didn\u2019t and I still really enjoyed this book and everything that it had to offer. It has been a long time since I have read anything quite like this book before and I am so glad that I signed up for this tour as it gave me a chance to get back into this genre. I found this book to be thoroughly enjoyable, tense, and if I feared more, probably a little horrifying too. It is a truly imaginative novel that was interesting, intriguing and page-turning and I would highly recommend others to read it too. But here are some reasons as to why you should. The Journey Begins With the tension continuously building throughout this novel, I can really only describe the plot of this book to be wonderfully written and enthralling. The beginning of this novel starts with a stereotypical horror-movie beginning \u2013 the characters even mention how like a horror movie it actually is. I found this to be really interesting and as usual, found myself rolling my eyes at one of the characters\u2019 behaviours. But then the book took off. It was one thing after another, with the tension simply growing as the action became fast paced, exciting and intense. It\u2019s not long before you feel that you cannot put the book down and simply have to get to the end to know how it ends. Will it all work out? What will happen? Questions spiral the mind and fortunately, by the end, everything is answered. But then, with just a few more pages to go, it is made abundantly clear that this is not the end of it all, not just yet. I, for one, am definitely looking forward to reading more of this series. For The People There were many things to love about this book; the plot, the monsters, the tension, the writing style, and the characters. The characters were all well-written and were fully three-dimensional characters with no mary-sues in sight. Michael has a way of truly introducing new characters that gives you a good insight into them and their backgrounds. It explains why they behave the way they do and helps you to become attached to them \u2013 even the ones who turn out to be the villains of the piece. It is clear that he knows what he is doing, which is good as with the amount of times that the POV of this book changes, it could have ended in a capital disaster. One of the characters I loved reading about the most was Officer Ricks and I always had a little smile on my face when he appeared, and he wasn\u2019t even one of the main characters. Robby, the male protagonist of this story, captured my heart easily. He was traumatised by his history but he used it to do good. He was caring, protective and completely gentlemanly. I adored reading about him and continuously cheered him on throughout the book. He\u2019s a character that should play by the rules because of his job but he continuously goes against them, doing what he needs to do to save what he needs to save. He\u2019s brash and often acts first, thinks later, but that just makes him more lovable in my book. Sheri, the female protagonist of this story, was also a character I liked quite a bit. She had a lot to deal with because of Jeff and Robby and all the new and uncertain things happening in her life. She was strong, full of fight and yet completely and utterly hopeless and scared at the same time. A brilliant character who just wanted to get through what she had to without losing herself in the process. Could Change This story is written from the POV of all the characters in the story. This style I have seen before in stories and sometimes it is a style that falls flat and makes the story unattainable and boring but this is certainly not the case for Spook House. Michael has managed to show the story from many different perspectives, flowing different emotions and scenarios throughout the book which helped to keep the tension high and the page turning. Just as a part got truly exciting and you needed to know what happened next, he would switch to a different character, show how they got to the same point you were just at \u2013 or beyond it \u2013 and then continue. It kept you moving through the book at a speed because you needed to know what was going to happen to the previous character you were reading about. I truly enjoyed this style as it gave a 360 degree view of the world and story that you were reading but I do know that this is not a style that everyone will enjoy. If you dislike stories like that, I would definitely advise staying away from this book. Everything Completely All in all, this is a book that is truly fascinating and interesting. A book that keeps you on your toes throughout the book, and rewards you for reading through to the end by having a dramatic and intense ending, that is truly exciting. It is a thoroughly enjoyable read that holds interesting and creative monsters and therefore, may not be the best book for the easily scared. It holds interesting thoughts about hell and alternative dimensions that add just that little bit more to the book. It is one story that I am incredibly glad to have read and I will now be making sure I go and read the first two stories in this series, just so that I can read more of the characters and of Michael West\u2019s writing style. I would recommend this book to anyone that enjoys fantasy, horror, and mystery all rolled into one. It is a captivating and intense read and it is definitely not for the easily scared or the light-hearted. So if you\u2019re in the mood for something that may have the power to keep you up at night, this is the book you should read. ...more First, I want to make a shout-out to artist Matthew Perry for the kick-ass cover of Spook House, as well as the two interior pieces. Seventh Star Press was smart when they grabbed this guy for their books. Spook House is actually the third book in West\u2019s Harmony, Indiana series. I haven\u2019t read the first two, but you don\u2019t need to read the books in order because they are self-contained stories that happen in the same small town. There is an overlapping arc but you are given just enough information First, I want to make a shout-out to artist Matthew Perry for the kick-ass cover of Spook House, as well as the two interior pieces. Seventh Star Press was smart when they grabbed this guy for their books. Spook House is actually the third book in West\u2019s Harmony, Indiana series. I haven\u2019t read the first two, but you don\u2019t need to read the books in order because they are self-contained stories that happen in the same small town. There is an overlapping arc but you are given just enough information about it in Spook House to understand the motivations behind our protagonist, Robby Miller, and to entice you to read the first two books and find out those stories. This was an old-fashioned horror story with likable characters and a smart plot. Robby Miller is an EMT in the town of Harmony. Twenty five years ago something bad happened to him and his friends in a corn field and the guilt still plagues him, so he is trying to learn more about the evil that secretly preys on the town and do something about it. I really liked his character and hope he appears in future books because he is level-headed and a really decent guy. The first chapter is like the start of any horror movie out there: a guy and girl check out the old rotting house with a murderous past. Guy says he just wants to have a look around\u2026 but in this case the girl, Sheri Foster, stays in the car. Guy doesn't come back\u2026 ever. Sheri and Robby must stop a zealot on a mission to finish opening a \u201cdoor\u201d that Farmer Fuller started over 40 years ago in his cellar. To complicate matters, the door to hell is below the Harmony Fire Department\u2019s haunted house attraction. There are spider-dogs, tentacles, ritual human sacrifices, a fanatical Irishman, a sharp dagger, and even a little romance. West writes a damn fine story. The characters are well-developed and the story is rich and intelligent. Where you find monsters you will also find gory deaths, but it isn't done in a gratuitous manner. The story has a few lulls between the fast paced action scenes, but overall this is a quick read and good time for any fan of horror. If you like Stephen King or Scott Nicholson, then you will enjoy this. http://www.ismellsheep.com/2012/11/mi... ...more I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I haven't read a horror novel in quite some time and as it used to be my favourite genre to read I was quite excited when the opportunity to read this one came along. Spook House, which is my first ever Michael West novel, had just the right amount of horror mixed in with an interesting storyline that kept me totally intrigued and turning the pages as quick as I could to the very end (well, as much as pages can be 'turned' on a Kindle anyway!) In I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I haven't read a horror novel in quite some time and as it used to be my favourite genre to read I was quite excited when the opportunity to read this one came along. Spook House, which is my first ever Michael West novel, had just the right amount of horror mixed in with an interesting storyline that kept me totally intrigued and turning the pages as quick as I could to the very end (well, as much as pages can be 'turned' on a Kindle anyway!) In my opinion this story was so well written and didn't have any of that immature or 'cliche' feel that I've noticed a lot of horror stories seem to have. It also had a plotline that didn't seem to be so totally far out unbelievable and there was even a scientific aspect within the story to back the events up which I thought was a great touch. The two main characters, Sheri and Robby, were very realistic and likeable people and I really enjoyed the interactions between them and how they developed as the story moved along. This is not your typical horror story where multiple characters are being bumped off left, right and centre for unexplained reasons. This story has a bit more depth and contains just the right amount of gore that fits well within the plotlines and doesn't feel unnecessary as you continue reading. Overall, if you're a fan of a good horror story that isn't immature or predictable then I definitely recommend reading Spook House. I can't wait to try some other Michael West novels now! ...more Spook House by Michael West A haunted house in the tiny town of Harmony turns out to be less than harmonious. Halloween turns out to be a truly otherworldly experience. Sheri Foster and Robby Miller become unlikely protagonists in this very spooky thriller. Sheri is exposed to something that defies her imagination and strains her creditability with the first responders. Robby Miller, whose personal nightmares provide him with a different frame of reference, is the only first responder to believe Spook House by Michael West A haunted house in the tiny town of Harmony turns out to be less than harmonious. Halloween turns out to be a truly otherworldly experience. Sheri Foster and Robby Miller become unlikely protagonists in this very spooky thriller. Sheri is exposed to something that defies her imagination and strains her creditability with the first responders. Robby Miller, whose personal nightmares provide him with a different frame of reference, is the only first responder to believe her. The author does a great job with setting the scene and providing an appropriately frightening environment. I would have preferred a bit more back story on Robby but that lack was not a detriment to the plot. Cayden\u2019s cheerful fanaticism accompanying his likeable fa\u00e7ade was the most frightening aspect of the book. I prefer my evil villains to be obviously evil. I\u2019m not a fan of horror stories but I really liked this rendition. I enjoyed the book. ...more Michael West is a very good writer. It is only icing on the cake that he writes in a genre that I love, horror. As a horror writer myself, I find inspiration in other writers, whose work is entertaining and of overall good quality. Spook House fits the bill in spades! This, I'm ashamed to say is the first Michael West novel which I've read, but I can tell you now that it won't be the last. Spook House reads just like a horror movie, but not in the corny, cheesy predictable way. It has plenty of g Michael West is a very good writer. It is only icing on the cake that he writes in a genre that I love, horror. As a horror writer myself, I find inspiration in other writers, whose work is entertaining and of overall good quality. Spook House fits the bill in spades! This, I'm ashamed to say is the first Michael West novel which I've read, but I can tell you now that it won't be the last. Spook House reads just like a horror movie, but not in the corny, cheesy predictable way. It has plenty of gore, plenty of suspense, plenty of monsters, plenty of action...but what it also has is heart. It's not very often that you come across speculative fiction which is very well written and is an extremely GREAT example of the genre, so after reading this novel, I was most pleased. If you're a fan of the horror genre, then do yourself a HUGE favor and pick up a copy of Spook House, because I know you'll absolutely love it! ...more Just finished reading Spook House! I am not usually a horror buff but have read the other books in this series and found them very well written and the characters very engaging, so decided to read this one as well. I was not disappointed. It took me a bit longer than usual to read, because I do most of my reading at bedtime, and found the story so scary that I was afraid of inviting nightmares. However by the time I was half way through the book, I was so involved with the characters that I foun Just finished reading Spook House! I am not usually a horror buff but have read the other books in this series and found them very well written and the characters very engaging, so decided to read this one as well. I was not disappointed. It took me a bit longer than usual to read, because I do most of my reading at bedtime, and found the story so scary that I was afraid of inviting nightmares. However by the time I was half way through the book, I was so involved with the characters that I found I had to keep reading, nightmares or not! I particularly found the crossover of characters from the other books by this author interesting and I am anxious to see where these characters go from here. I heartily recommend this book for anyone who loves a good horror story! ...more Michael West's best book! If there is one thing about Michael's books is the best parts are usually in the 1st 3/4 of the book which is just a small disappointment for me being that I have yet to read anything that was not great. Spook House however builds and builds the suspense till the very last page. I loved it. West can make scary monsters and people to care about that are also scared of scary monster leading you to care about the people put in wonderfully scary spots. I started reading this book and I literally could not put it down. So just to sum it up this book is awesome, fun, scary, clever. This is a book that will not disappoint. Such a great and horrific tale. It kept me on the edge of my seat all the way till the last page. Not many books could top this, it's fluid in it's writing and every character is fleshed out and even more believable then the last. Defiantly recommend. I was really into this book. I will most likely pick up the other Harmony books by Mr West since it was such a fun read & it's sadly a rarity to stumble across such an original and genuinely engaging horror story. This hair raising tale will keep you turning the page. When you open a door in the spiritual world, you never know what might come out. When it's in a Spook House, terror reins supreme. I\u2019ve had this one on my shelf for awhile because it\u2019s the 3rd book of the series and I hadn\u2019t read the first 2 but I finally said screw it and read it anyways. I was glad I did and it wasn\u2019t necessary to read the first 2 to enjoy this one. From what I can gather by reviews, all the books take place in the same town and have a few of the same characters but there is no huge storyline that you miss out on by not reading the others. There\u2019s a haunted house where years ago, the owner was trying to op I\u2019ve had this one on my shelf for awhile because it\u2019s the 3rd book of the series and I hadn\u2019t read the first 2 but I finally said screw it and read it anyways. I was glad I did and it wasn\u2019t necessary to read the first 2 to enjoy this one. From what I can gather by reviews, all the books take place in the same town and have a few of the same characters but there is no huge storyline that you miss out on by not reading the others. There\u2019s a haunted house where years ago, the owner was trying to open a portal to another world and it now seems that after a couple venture to the house, it\u2019s even closer to be opened. Only now the local fire department is setting up for a haunted house in the haunted house. This was a pretty good thrill ride, some great action and likeable characters. I would definitely recommend it and I plan on putting some more Michael West books in my wish list. ...more Michael West brings us back to Harmony, Indiana, and we know just from the setting that we are in for a thrill ride. West does not fail to provide as he draws us in with intense action and then allows the plot to unfold at a masterful pace. We get to see familiar faces from Harmony and West ties together his worlds of Harmony, Indiana and The Legacy of the Gods with a crossover character (which is really exciting for fans of all of West's work). This novel shows that in Harmony, not even somethi Michael West brings us back to Harmony, Indiana, and we know just from the setting that we are in for a thrill ride. West does not fail to provide as he draws us in with intense action and then allows the plot to unfold at a masterful pace. We get to see familiar faces from Harmony and West ties together his worlds of Harmony, Indiana and The Legacy of the Gods with a crossover character (which is really exciting for fans of all of West's work). This novel shows that in Harmony, not even something as simple as a charity haunted house can be taken at face value. Action packed, full of fun, I highly recommend this title! ...more Michael West could be the reincarnation of H.P. Lovecraft, but with a style that makes his work much more easier to read. I could not put this thing down! I didn't know it was the third book in a series until I was done, but I didn't feel like I missed out on anything. It just made me want to get the other books that came before (Especially Wide Game!) Can't say enough about the characters, and so happy that somebody from Poseidon's Children showed up! Mr. West is probably my favorite writer rig Michael West could be the reincarnation of H.P. Lovecraft, but with a style that makes his work much more easier to read. I could not put this thing down! I didn't know it was the third book in a series until I was done, but I didn't feel like I missed out on anything. It just made me want to get the other books that came before (Especially Wide Game!) Can't say enough about the characters, and so happy that somebody from Poseidon's Children showed up! Mr. West is probably my favorite writer right now, horror or otherwise. Do yourself a favor and pick this thing up NOW! ...more Spook House is the third installment in the Harmony, Indiana series by Michael West, it's a more of a monster novel that's filled with mythological creatures out of Lovecraft. I found the characters to be relatable and the monster very creepy, especially what they do to feed. It was nice to see characters from Cinema of Shadows featured in this book. I can't wait for the next book in the Harmony, Indiana series. If you like a good old fashioned scare fest, Spook House is a sweet ride. West's monsters leap into ho-hum Harmony, Indiana with a lovecraftian horror that appeals to the darkest of the subconscious. If you're into old-school sci-fi and horror, you're going to dig this one. This series of lightly related books about the creepy town of Harmony, IN keep getting better and better. The dialogue is realistic, the story kept moving, and the characters were believable.<---C>Julian</---C>", "Title": "Spook House"},
