{"Comments": "I'm trying to figure out how the author who gave us Suze Simons and Ellie Harrison (<---B>plus their respective awesome male love interests</---B>) turned around and put out this absolute horror show of a paranormal romance. Seriously,<---M> what the hell happened</---M>, <---A>Meg Cabot</---A>? Did I just grow out of you or are you selling out? <+++>Underworld</+++> , the sequel to Cabot's lackluster re-imagining of the Hades/Persephone myth Abandon , is the first Meg Cabot book I ever had to urge to throw against the wall and never pick up agai I'm trying to figure out how the author who gave us Suze Simons and Ellie Harrison (plus their respective awesome male love interests) turned around and put out this absolute horror show of a paranormal romance. Seriously, what the hell happened, Meg Cabot? Did I just grow out of you or are you selling out? <+++>Underworld</+++> , the sequel to Cabot's lackluster re-imagining of the Hades/Persephone myth Abandon , is the first Meg Cabot book I ever had to urge to throw against the wall and never pick up again. It's a dull, dreary read with very little plot and a whole lot of ridiculous relationship drama and repeated exposition because the heroine is amazingly clueless. There's very little of Cabot's signature humorous and fun style in this series, possibly because of the subject matter, and it's just not an enjoyable read. As bad as Cabot's writing, plotting and pacing was in this book, my main issue with Underworld was John and Pierce's relationship. To say it's an unhealthy relationship is being kind - it's toxic and all sorts of fucked up disguised as OMG TRUE LOVE FOREVER. Again, maybe I've grown out of the bad boy who just needs to be ~loved~ but John Hayden is one of the douchiest love interests I've encountered in a long ass time. He's a controlling, wrathful, manipulative dick who guilt trips Pierce for being pissed that he, you know, didn't tell her that she couldn't eat food in the Underworld and tricked her into staying there for good. But hey, it turns out he was actually LYING about that and let her believe she'd inadvertently given up her family, friends and life to be with him, and that she'd only get stuck in the Underworld if she had sex with him. WHICH HE ALSO CONVENIENTLY FORGOT TO MENTION TO HER BEFORE THEY HAD SEX. And the worst part about all of this? Pierce is almost totally fine with the fact that he's a lying, manipulative control freak because she just needs to ~fix him~ and everything will be better.<---F> Seriously</---F>. Her defining character trait is that she cares about and fixes \"wild things\" and John's just about the most wild thing she's ever met. Pierce knows and acknowledges John's a controlling asshole - she even knows she SHOULD be angry at him for lying to her - but she brushes it off as \"male bullheadedness\" and the only thing that matters is that she loves John and wants to be with him. Girl, please. If he didn't trust you enough to make your own decisions about whether or not you want to stay in the Underworld and withheld information from you, HE IS AN ASSHOLE AND IS MOST CERTAINLY NOT THE PERSON YOU WANT TO SPEND THE REST OF YOUR LIFE WITH. I don't know if I'm going to pick up the third book in this series. On one hand, I want to see if Pierce will finally get her shit together and leave John (which she won't, duh) and on the other hand, I don't think I can read anything else about this relationship and not want to throw myself of the edge of the world. I expected better from you, Meg Cabot. ...more ****FINAL RATING: 4.20 STARS**** CATCHALL If I really liked Abandon , I beyond adored Underworld. It was so much better than its predecessor in every way possible. I loved every minute of it and it left me absolutely breathless when I was finished. It was incredible and shows that a series, no matter how experienced the author, can only get better. THE HEROINE PIERCE I didn't dislike Pierce as much in this book as I had in previous books. I better understood the motivations behind her actions and ****FINAL RATING: 4.20 STARS**** CATCHALL If I really liked Abandon , I beyond adored Underworld. It was so much better than its predecessor in every way possible. I loved every minute of it and it left me absolutely breathless when I was finished. It was incredible and shows that a series, no matter how experienced the author, can only get better. THE HEROINE PIERCE I didn't dislike Pierce as much in this book as I had in previous books. I better understood the motivations behind her actions and especially related to her fierce desire to protect those she loves. She's still a little too reckless for my taste, but it's not like I'm not reckless sometimes, so I'm actually really not one to talk. Still, I connected better to Pierce in this book than I did in the last, and so that made the book much, much more enjoyable. THE LOVE INTEREST JOHN Yay John! Damn, he's hot. Really freaking hot. He's probably my favorite character because hot bad boys are so hot. I like how he has a layer of mystery that's slowly peeled back but still not totally revealed. He shows his vulnerability in shocking and beautiful ways and I love that. He's strong, but he has his weaknesses too. And of course, he's also really caring and protective, but he'll do things for Pierce even if he doesn't necessarily want to. THE OTHER SECONDARY CHARACTERS ALEX Alex was kind of annoying in this book and I couldn't figure out why. I mean, I know why he annoyed me, but I couldn't figure out what made him act so annoyingly. So I was kind of frustrated for a lot of this book and really wanted to slap him for being so dumb. KAYLA I was glad to see Kayla back. She had a great sense of humor and is really fun. I enjoyed her appearances and thought that she almost made up for Alex. Almost. THE PLOT Underworld was far more action-packed than Abandon, which was really nice to see. Abandon was fun but didn't have a ton of stuff going on, whereas Underworld never had a single bored moment. Additionally, I liked the plot. It was fun and fresh. There was so much suspense! I didn't intend originally to read this book in only one day, but I found myself physically unable to put it down. It was really amazing. It was also extremely original, and I didn't feel like I'd read the same thing over and over. I thought that it was exciting and new, and I loved that! Underworld's plot was extremely intense in the best way possible and possibly the most fun I've head in a while. THE ROMANCE The romance in Underworld was a lot heavier than in Abandon, but no less sweet! It really develops and John and Pierce become a mature couple. They even have arguments, realistic ones, which I loved seeing. They really come into their own together in this book. I love seeing the way they interact and how well suited they are to each other. The romance in this book made me extremely happy, and even though it almost borders a tad on instalove, it actually isn't really because of the past. So, I was pleased with that. THE WRITING After so many years of writing, Meg's writing is still as fantastic as ever. Sometimes it sounds a bit juvenile, but it somehow fits her characters perfectly. Pierce is no exception. It's pretty and Pierce has an achingly real voice. The description evokes sharp images and I can hear Pierce's voice in my head. I love Meg's writing. It's not overly complicated or roundabout. It's sometimes a bit simplistic, but I honestly can't say I mind. The way she does it, it fits. THE ENDING Actually, I'll admit I wasn't to impressed by this. I liked the very last lines and thought they made for a great but not too cruel cliffhanger, but an event that took place slightly before this completely threw me and rather ticked me off. I thought it was unnecessary and far too convenient. It didn't work for me, unfortunately. Still, I did like how she ended the very end. Even though I didn't connect to everything, WRAPUP I'm totally reading Awaken ! I think the name is perfect, and it sounds so good. I cannot wait for a cover release! I just know it will be gorgeous. I'm also betting on a lot of suspense, fun, and romance. Awaken is already one of my most highly anticipated reads of 2013. FINE. Read more of my reviews on Sparkles and Lightning ! ~ Why 2012? Why not, oh, today? Oh, and what a pretty cover! It's just so gorgeous! ...more You call that a plot? I call that chapter six. Abandon was a series of constant flash-backs that didn't further the plot. Underworld was a constant reiteration of the present that did nothing to further the plot, which was full of holes, anyway. Pierce somehow got too stupid to live syndrome and John \"thought she knew,\" everything about being Queen of the Underworld when only twenty-four hours have passed in Underworld, and six days passed in Abandon. Basically, was it any better than Abandon? No You call that a plot? I call that chapter six. Abandon was a series of constant flash-backs that didn't further the plot. Underworld was a constant reiteration of the present that did nothing to further the plot, which was full of holes, anyway. Pierce somehow got too stupid to live syndrome and John \"thought she knew,\" everything about being Queen of the Underworld when only twenty-four hours have passed in Underworld, and six days passed in Abandon. Basically, was it any better than Abandon? No. Do I have any hope of Awaken being better than Underworld? My expectations are crazy low. Will I still read it? Probably just as soon as I get it in the mail, as I did with Underworld. Why? Meg Cabot. I'm beginning to think the woman owns me. ...more They say never to judge a book by its cover! THEY LIE!!!! These are the steps to picking an awesome book like this one: 1) Is the cover good? 2)Is the title cool? 3) read the back or flap, is it cool? I have this habit of reading books that are really bad then complaining about them and continuing to read them. This is one of those books. I wasn't fond of the first book but this took the cake. Or not the cake. It doesn't deserve cake. But in all seriousness I really hated this book. 1. Pierce. I hated Pierce. Sure the rambling in characters is cute at times (not in this book but others) but she does it SO much and talks about so many unnecessary things and it gets annoying and I want to hit he I have this habit of reading books that are really bad then complaining about them and continuing to read them. This is one of those books. I wasn't fond of the first book but this took the cake. Or not the cake. It doesn't deserve cake. But in all seriousness I really hated this book. 1. Pierce. I hated Pierce. Sure the rambling in characters is cute at times (not in this book but others) but she does it SO much and talks about so many unnecessary things and it gets annoying and I want to hit her over the head with a flower pot. And stupid. My god is she stupid \"Hayden and Sons\" that's Johns last name what could that mean. Stupid Stupid, Stupid! And shallow. My word is she shallow and just stupid again. She is considered oh so sweet and innocent and pure by always wearing those white dresses and calling her dad a cheap skate for putting up $1 million for her rescue (my entire family doesn't have that much put together!) and ... I want to rip out her hair. And then hit her with a flower pot. 2. John. Oh John. You controlling, pathetic, abusive, anger management issued dead man. Claiming to love Pierce and yet neglecting to tell her anything about yourself because she might hate you? Wanting her to stay with you forever by holding her against her will? Breaking things and making scary thunder when she says something you don't like? Real charmer you are. 3. The Relationship. How abusive can you get? Been held against your will and alternating between being fine about it and throwing tea in his face (first book not second). Causing thunder and destroying things whenever she says something you don't like. Lying to her over and over and claiming to feel sick about it (dude then stop fucking lying). Having sex and oh yeah forgetting the tiny detail of it keep you in the Underworld forever because you thought she knew (never assume it makes an ass of you and me). Excusing all his behavior because of \"masculine bullheadedness?\" And oh yeah because she has to fix him. Honey he's been dead for two hundred years he has issues you can't fix by kissing him or seductively touching his neck. Most blatant relationship I have read in a long time. 4. Plot. What plot? Nothing happens! The whole book takes place in two days and what happens?! NOTHING! 5. Other characters yeah I couldn't get over Kayla's \"He can kidnap me anytime\" good message to send to teenage girls. He can do whatever he wants to me ... if he's hot. And Alex. Only character who seemed to know the real deal about how selfish Pierce is. \"Hey let's leave my family behind without a proper goodbye because I want to be with this abusive hot guy!\" All in all? One star. This was not worth the read and I'm ashamed I'll probably read the third just so I can complain more. ...more 3.5 stars. Review to come. ~*~*~*~ Read an excerpt of Underworld (chapter 1 & 2) here ! (Btw, what is with the summary? \"Her captor?\" That makes John seem so creepy.) Unfortunately, Underworld just didn't hold my attention and I found myself not wanting to read it anymore:( \u2663 2.5 disappointed stars :/ \u2663 Pierce was seriously acting dumb in this one while Alex turned just plaincrazy.The only reason I gave this book an extra star for the revilement of John's past . This book was such a drag.Honestly?It felt like Meg cabot had actually meant to write this series as one whole book, before finally deciding to go against it and published it as 3 elaborately -unnecessary parts....that made up this trilogy. :P REALLLY hope book 3 will make up for all this dissapointment :( WHY WHY WHY 2012!?!?!? I read the first book to the end, see that Underworld is the next book, read the blurb, then what do I see at the bottom? 2012.. Why why why why why!?!? *sigh* Disappointing. The first book was okay, even though my opinion of it has sort of changed since I read it. But this book was just...meh. It was more like a \"filler\" book than a good sequel. - The plot focused mainly on Pierce's family's past and their issues. I really dislike it when some authors do this because it feels like they're taking the focus away from the real problem. It's not like I don't care or anything, but the reason I'm reading this book isn't because of the family issues. H *sigh* Disappointing. The first book was okay, even though my opinion of it has sort of changed since I read it. But this book was just...meh. It was more like a \"filler\" book than a good sequel. - The plot focused mainly on Pierce's family's past and their issues. I really dislike it when some authors do this because it feels like they're taking the focus away from the real problem. It's not like I don't care or anything, but the reason I'm reading this book isn't because of the family issues. Her family's past was kind of important because what happened then is related to whatever was happening to Pierce now, but not by a lot. I was hoping that maybe at the end I would get to see some good action, but that was also disappointing. - While in the first book I found this retelling of Persephone and Hades story interesting, now it sounds hard to believe. It's not convincing enough to me. It just sounds too...artificial? Not creative enough? Something along those lines. I guess I'm glad that it's not complicated like some books but at the same time, it's not developed enough. And the whole Furies and Fates thing? I don't get them. Just what the heck do they even want?! - The romance. It made me want to bang my head against the wall. I don't remember much from the first book, but in the beginning of this book, I found it a bit alarming that Pierce and John were already professing their undying love for each other. I don't think they went through the whole \"insta-love\" business, but I just don't see any chemistry between them. Mostly because more than half of the time they were arguing about frustrating things and keeping secrets from each other. These two have the worst case of mis-communication I've ever seen. They just assume the other person knows what they're talking about. I kind of underdstand why John has feelings for Pierce - even though I don't see anything special about her - but I don't understand Pierce's feelings for John. Why does she love him ? After all that he's done? She's just ready to forgive him for ANYTHING. Is it just because he's hot? I don't know. I'm not even going to talk about the characters because I'm tired of writing negative things. But I will say this to Pierce, \"MAKE UP YOUR EFFIN' MIND! You either want to stay in Underworld forever, or you want to go back to your human life. I know it's a hard decision, but I don't understand the way you think sometimes. Please stop giving me headaches. Please. I beg of you.\" Anyways, I have no clue if I'm going to read the third book anymore. If it's the last book in the series, than I probably will, because I might as well finish the series. This really sucks because I am a huge Meg Cabot fan and have loved all the other books I've read by her. They were all fun, cute, and witty. I don't think writing \"dark\" books is her thing. ...more This book can't come out soon enough!! This series is going to be like an addiction I may not love it but I must have it! After reading: I love meg Cabot. I am so intrigued by all of her books. I like the love story in this book but there is only one thing in this book I would criticize. That would be the rudeness of Alex, pierce's cousin. After how rude he has been throughout the entire series I fail to see how they have developed such a deep connection...and even if we are going off the fact th This book can't come out soon enough!! This series is going to be like an addiction I may not love it but I must have it! After reading: I love meg Cabot. I am so intrigued by all of her books. I like the love story in this book but there is only one thing in this book I would criticize. That would be the rudeness of Alex, pierce's cousin. After how rude he has been throughout the entire series I fail to see how they have developed such a deep connection...and even if we are going off the fact that she is a kind person. John's character would not have tolerated the behavior of her cousin towards her. I find that to be a character flaw. I know that it was mentioned that she felt that he was less wild but he was protecting her and in the little amount of time they have spent together I don't think that would break the habit of \"wild\" behavior. But overall I immensely enjoyed it and can't wait for the next!! ...more To be honest, I got to page 25? 35? Let me tell you what I found and why I had to stop reading. This book is a clear example of 7th grade writing. It made my eye start to tick (picture eye tick here). It is an example, that I shall use in class, of \"telling instead of showing,\" which I plead with students not to do... with exemplar texts (Paul Fleishman's Seedfolks and a new book called Croak - brilliant word choice) and examples and lessons up the wah-hoo. Word choice? Check it out. Yawn. And ch To be honest, I got to page 25? 35? Let me tell you what I found and why I had to stop reading. This book is a clear example of 7th grade writing. It made my eye start to tick (picture eye tick here). It is an example, that I shall use in class, of \"telling instead of showing,\" which I plead with students not to do... with exemplar texts (Paul Fleishman's Seedfolks and a new book called Croak - brilliant word choice) and examples and lessons up the wah-hoo. Word choice? Check it out. Yawn. And check this out, page 2 - \"the sky was as dark as night.\" Ow. Ow. Hurts even to copy it from the book. My 7th grade writers use cliched similes 99.9% of the time and it's painful (ow). Experienced writers are not allowed to do that. (stomping foot) Like Walter Dean Myers is married to the work \"said\" and uses it until my eyes bleed, Cabot seems romantically involved with the word \"which\" - in which my ears are grated to ribbonny-bits. *page 1 - \"which\" *page 2 - \"about which\" and \"in which\" *page 4 - \"in which\" and \"which\" *page 9 - \"to which\" *page 12 - \"in which\" *page 13 - \"on which\"...I could keep going, but I think you get the point. It's like when Tom Cruise is acting; it's so bad that I tend to wonder about the lighting or sets; every time he opens his mouth I'm taken right out of the story. In Underworld I started counting how many times she used \"which.\" That does not bode well for the story. The young man and love interest who is a Death Deity has a \"heart stopping smile\" (bleghhhhhh, in which I just threw up in my mouth a little) is \"tan\" on page 9, \"gold\" on page 10, \"gold as a lion's coat\" but has \"crisscrossed lines\" on his skin (that she'd never seen before?) which \"occasionally crisscrossed his otherwise golden skin\" on page 10. It only takes 25 pages, fewer actually, to detest the main character as a pathetic, ridiculous girl. Me no likey weak girl characters. She's flat and icky, perhaps because this is book #2 and Cabot expects us to remember book #1? I read the first book forever ago and remember almost nothing. Really what I remember best is the font with the falling teardrop capital letters at the beginning of each chapter. Okay, okay, I'll stop whining. Cabot's not the worst writer in the YA gang, and I've liked some of her books (Queen of Babble) though often I get her confused with Ally Carter (sorry Ally!), get excited to get the book, open it, read a few pages, then sigh dramatically. Editor on strike? Ooooooo, maybe...I wonder...is Cabot harboring a teen writer who's getting published under her name? Will the real Shakespeare please stand up? I can't understand how a writer who's written SO MANY BOOKS could write Underworld (in which a wee teen with wide eyes peers out from behind Cabot). I'm not convinced it's Cabot's writing. So there. Just call me Nancy Drew. ...more This series is just so bad that it's good. I love greek mythology books, and although this version of it hurts my head sometimes, it's my guilty pleasure. SPOILERS FOR THE PREVIOUS BOOK Pierce is still as stupid as ever. Take a look at the passage below: \"'Do you see it?' Mr. Smith demanded, tapping the paper. Farther down, in letters almost as large, was a headline about Jade's murder. There was no photo of my uncle Chris, but I knew he was the \"local man\" who'd been picked up for questioning, tha This series is just so bad that it's good. I love greek mythology books, and although this version of it hurts my head sometimes, it's my guilty pleasure. SPOILERS FOR THE PREVIOUS BOOK Pierce is still as stupid as ever. Take a look at the passage below: \"'Do you see it?' Mr. Smith demanded, tapping the paper. Farther down, in letters almost as large, was a headline about Jade's murder. There was no photo of my uncle Chris, but I knew he was the \"local man\" who'd been picked up for questioning, thanks to a tip. Also that the \"tip\" had been an anonymous phone call that my uncle had been seen in the area around the time Jade was believed to have been killed, even though he'd been home, asleep. Uncle Chris had been released, beut was still considered a suspect, in spite of the fact that there was no evidence whatsoever to connect him to the crime or to the victim. Some tip. 'I'm sorry, no. I really don't see what any of this-' I started to say. The cemetery sexton tapped the paper again, impatiently. 'Here' he said. I looked where he was tapping. Local Girl Missing, Feared Dead. Beneath it was a photo of me-my most recent school photo. 'Oh, no.' My heart filling with dread, I took the paper from Mr. Smith's hands. 'Couldn't they have found a better picture?'\" In this passage, not only is Pierce not observant, but she's worried over her picture. Sure, this would have been totally okay, even funny, with a different narrator, but this line, paired with Pierce's lack of a brain, just doesn't work. And here's another example of Pierce's stupidity: \"Both Mr. Smith's cry of alarm and the fact that John grabbed me by the wrist as I was reaching into my book bag for my cell phone stopped me from making calls of any sort. 'You can't use your phone,' Mr. Smith said. 'The police-and your father-are surely waiting for you to do just that. They'll triangulate on the signal from the closest cell tower, and find you.' When I stared at him for his use of the word triangulate, Mr. Smith shook his head and said, 'My partner, Patrick, is obsessed with Law & Order reruns.'\" Once again, Meg Cabot tries to add a little humor here, but it doesn't work. And Pierce is being super stupid again. I'm not a techy person, and even I know about people being able to find you through your cellphone signal. And before reading, I didn't know what triangulate meant either, but it's super easy to assume what it means from the context. And once again, if it was a better narrator, this scene might have been funny. Mrs. Cabot could have made me laugh, if there was a different narrator. Pierce is also extremely helpless. Whenever the furies possess people and try to kill her, you know what's the first thing she does? Scream for John. Sure, she may not be skilled in hand-to-hand combat, but there's this thing called running, and if I were her, I would still try to land a few good punches and kicks. And you know what's even more stupid, the only reason why the furies want her is because that way, she'll die for real and so she'll be with John forever and then the furies and all spend eternity torturing John by hurting her. These furies sure are selfish. And Pierce is sending me mixed signals about her grandmother. She knows that it isn't her grandmother's fault for being possessed by a fury, yet hates her grandmother, and always refers to her grandmother doing this, and her grandmother doing that, when it really is the fury inside her. And there is a really awkward conversation about getting pregnant in the underworld, because Pierce is just sosososososososo curious. AND it's foreshadowing! (view spoiler) [how convenient that her and Mr. Smith have this conversation when later, her and John have sex? (hide spoiler) ] There are many other examples of Pierce being an airhead. But I have to move on. John Hayden is turning into Adam from the Shatter Me trilogy, or Jack from the Everneath trilogy. He's becoming extremely possessive and violent. Pierce has to stop him several times from killing people being possessed by furies. Even John admits that killing those people aren't going to help, since it's the fury that's possessing them. I actually kind of liked him in the first book. I figured that being 184 years old would help him with this. He's probably had trouble with fury-possessed people before. John also fusses over Pierce wayyy too much. Oh no! Pierce almost had her necklace ripped from her and now her neck's red! John FREAKS OUT. Dude, it's going to fade. He also has a confusing set of powers. He can make things appear at will, bring souls back to life, heal, and is extremely strong. These skills are so random. It seems that he just has skills that are convenient for the plot. Literally everyone fusses over Pierce. The only characters that I semi-like are Alex and Mr. Smith because they can sometimes be a jerk to Pierce. And this book could have basically been a filler book. The plot is just so slow. It's basically Pierce finding out that she CAN get out of the underworld, (view spoiler) [she ate food, because it's actually SEX that traps someone in the underworld. (hide spoiler) ] , running around, even though there is a huge reward hanging on her head, and it also is bad for the souls underneath, and then running back. John is so stupid for letting her do these things in the first place. Sure, there is like this ONE revelation, but even that was confusing. So here are the things I found confusing: traveling up to the real world, John's powers, furies, (view spoiler) [John and Pierce having sex, and her waking up with clothes on, Alex being raised back to life, and the furies finding out, even though John had revived four souls almost 200 years ago (hide spoiler) ] and the whole idea of the underworld. Pierce and John also have zero chemistry. I still don't see how they're in love. Overall, it was even worse than the first book. It's confusing, has a stupid heroine, and stupid guy, and a non-existent plot. But for people that liked Abandon , they will also like Underworld . ...more Appears on http://lilyparadis.com/ Let's face it, I'm in love with Meg Cabot. For as long as I can remember, she's been my literary idol. I spent my early teenage years on her message boards, chatting with her other fans, waiting for new books, and trying to be just like Meg. I think I've had this post bookmarked for an obscene amount of time, because somehow I was convinced that reading it would automatically help me write a book. I think I first found out about her because of the Princess Diaries Appears on http://lilyparadis.com/ Let's face it, I'm in love with Meg Cabot. For as long as I can remember, she's been my literary idol. I spent my early teenage years on her message boards, chatting with her other fans, waiting for new books, and trying to be just like Meg. I think I've had this post bookmarked for an obscene amount of time, because somehow I was convinced that reading it would automatically help me write a book. I think I first found out about her because of the Princess Diaries movies. You know, the first one with Anne Hathaway and that guy from Rooney. (Except that no one knew he was from Rooney then, but that's beside the point. He was also replaced with a hotter, less hipster version in the next movie, a.k.a. Chris \"You Will Always Be Fine\" Pine, but that's also not the point...) Then I started reading the Mediator series, fell in love with my first fictional character, Jesse, and I was a goner. So naturally, since I've been a Meg Cabot fan for oh... over 10 years, I was thrilled when the sequel to Abandon (Meg's series inspired by Persephone and Hades), Underworld, came out May 8th. I finished my finals that day and had pre-purchased it on amazon to read on my kindle because I was so excited. (Except that I kind of forgot that I needed to move this week too, so that got delayed...) and I just finished it once I finally got the time to actually sit down and read it. Here's the kicker: I think I may have outgrown Meg. It breaks my heart, it truly does. But lately, I've been reading so many other books that are written so differently, including the Fifty Shades trilogy, so maybe my brain just isn't in the right mode to be reading Meg Cabot books. ***(Spoilers about this book below, stop reading now if you don't want to know! If you have read it, keep reading and please let me know if you agree/disagree, I'd love to hear your opinion!)*** Things I'm not sure I liked/Things I found questionable: 1. I found the characterization to be a little bit lacking. I think I'm used to more complex characters. Although John's back story was elaborated upon more in this book, I still thought there was something wrong with it. 2. I've read a lot of books where the characters just \"fall\" for each other without a whole lot of reason. With this one, they also did that, but I couldn't quite place my finger on what I didn't like, but I think it had something to do with the fact that they didn't really show any emotion towards each other when they weren't full on macking on each other... which only happened like three times in the entire book, all un prompted. It was almost as if Meg had been like \"oh whoops I need to make sure I have them be sort of intimate here\" and put it in. I mean, the intent that they do love each other is clear and it's nice that they're not quite as creepy as say, Bella and Edward (gag me for even referencing them, I'm sorry, but it's what first came to mind) but all the connection we get is like \"John was protective of her\" and \"I wanted to stay with John despite the fact that I had an entire family not in the underworld... and my dad has set a million dollar reward for finding me but I don't really care because I'm just so excited to hang out with John and his dead crew of miscreants... wait, Pirates of the Caribbean, anyone?) 3. Meg's signature wasn't there. She always has such a biting wit that really gives her characters a kick, but for some reason, I found it a little bit dry in comparison with her previous work. 4. I was in shock that the characters had (non-explicit) sex. No, I am not twelve, but for some reason I feel like Meg has always skirted the topic SO much in books like this. Yes, the characters have chemistry. But all of the sudden we're talking about demon baby possibilities and then having underworld sex after they basically miscommunicate the entire book? It was confusing. I literally had to read the passage and surrounding chapters twice to grasp that yes, the sex happened. Things I did like: 1. The Setting: Isla de Huesos is based off of Key West, or so Meg said in an interview about the book. I really like the back story on how the island is \"cursed\" and \"full of sin\" so therefore John is needed to sort out the dead. 2. The Greek Mythology references. I'm a sucker for this. I mean, I'm a history major. Well, that's one of my majors. I know that's really more classics, but I've taken the Greek Mythology class. In college. I feel like that says something for my love of Greek Myths. 3. John. Who wouldn't like John? He also sort of reminds me of my character, Olivia, but in male form because he's so connected with death, and what comes after life. 4. Pierce. I loved and hated Pierce at the same time. I still can't decide if I like her name, or if it irritates me. I think I like it? I'm not sure. Sometimes she has such strength that I really like in a lead female character, because I hate when they just whine and follow the guy around all day. Not interesting to read. The concept of her character is really intriguing I think. Also, I'd like to know who Meg based her father off of. 5. John and Pierce's past. If their present relationship was anything like their past, it would be electrifying. WHY does it seem to not be continuing in the way that it was explained in Abandon!? I don't understand. I just really hope it gets back to that in Awaken. Clearly, I'm a sucker for characters who have a past together. (CoughCharlieAndOliviaCough) Despite my complaints, I did really like the book. It's published, which is far more than anything I've ever achieved thus far, clearly, and it was written by Meg. So therefore, even though I was a little bit confused about why this wasn't what I was expecting, it was still a very decent book, FAR better than tons of books on the market. It continued the story, and left me hanging and wanting to know what happened with John and Pierce. Even though I don't think it was her absolute best, I will still be reading Awaken when it comes out. Happy reading! ...more I feel like this is blasphemy, me giving Meg Cabot an okay book review. Every time I read one of her books, I can't put them down. This time I just couldn't get into it. First off, Pierce pissed me off. She was constantly crying and jumping to conclusions that would ultimately be wrong and make her look like an idiot. Not to mention that she COMPLETELY seems to forget that she is in danger. For example, Pierce has a necklace that will tell her when Furies are near (it will turn black). Throughou I feel like this is blasphemy, me giving Meg Cabot an okay book review. Every time I read one of her books, I can't put them down. This time I just couldn't get into it. First off, Pierce pissed me off. She was constantly crying and jumping to conclusions that would ultimately be wrong and make her look like an idiot. Not to mention that she COMPLETELY seems to forget that she is in danger. For example, Pierce has a necklace that will tell her when Furies are near (it will turn black). Throughout the book she never thinks to look down and check BEFORE doing something. She will go down a dark alley and then look at her necklace and then she'll be attacked by a Fury, instead of just looking at it before going into the alley <--- I'm not sure that scenario actually happened but that's the gist of what would happen. Also, there just seemed to be so many things to discover. Usually, I like a lot of things to keep me on my toes but it was more like \"oh, I lied.\" So you're being led on the whole time thinking that (for example) (view spoiler) [ Pierce can't leave the underworld because she ate any kind of food (didn't have to be pomegranates). It was later revealed she could eat anythign she just couldn't have sex with John. REALLY?! I have no words to describe this... (hide spoiler) ] I'd rather learn about a secret than be blindsided at the end with something completely irrelevant. Oh and the rules of this book are completely useless. It's like you can't do this, but all of a sudden some miracle happens and, guess what? YOU CAN DO IT!! For example (view spoiler) [ you can't kill a fury. And then, all of a sudden, they find out that you can kill one!! (hide spoiler) ] It just seems too unrealisitic to me... Lastly, there are wayy too many characters. At some point there were as many as 6 people talking at once. It just got so confusing. Overall, its a good concept. It's just...not written very well. I LOVE Meg Cabot but I didn't really LOVE this book :( ...more A huge THANK YOU to Around The World ARC Tours for allowing me to read Underworld. I have to say with each new story I read about Hades and Persephone I fall in love with them all over again. With Underworld this is no different because Meg has spun such a story that it knocked me off my feet right from Abandoned. Pierce is being held in The Underworld by John for own safety. The only thing is she does not feel that way and she is worried about her family. She knows the furies are after her and s A huge THANK YOU to Around The World ARC Tours for allowing me to read Underworld. I have to say with each new story I read about Hades and Persephone I fall in love with them all over again. With Underworld this is no different because Meg has spun such a story that it knocked me off my feet right from Abandoned. Pierce is being held in The Underworld by John for own safety. The only thing is she does not feel that way and she is worried about her family. She knows the furies are after her and she does not want them to hurt her family. John loving her wants to protect her at all costs and if that means keeping her in The Underworld he will do that. In Underworld we get to see more of the back story of John and why he is the way he is. Yes he can be shady at times but it is in the best interest of Pierce and Meg explored this more in this book. What I loved was that John is willing to do anything for Pierce. Once Pierce realizes this she opens up to Pierce and you can see their relationship blossom. The ending of Underworld had me ready to pull my hair out of my head. I was screaming NO NO NO!!!!! I need more and I can't wait for the EPIC ending. Man I know it is going to be EPIC because we will finally see what is going to happen to Pierce and John. Meg has done a wonderful job re-writing the story of Hades and Persephone. Greek mythology is my favorite so I may be a little bias. ...more 2.5 stars First, I wanna say that I will be reading the next book. I wasn't all that impressed with Underworld , but * sigh * it's a trilogy...and I'm now more than halfway done with it. Pierce, the intrepid heroine of this story, is kind of idiotic. I don't understand the attraction between her and John, aka a death deity. No, he's not the Death Deity...just one of the many, evidently. So, he's not Hades or Lord of the Underworld, he's just in charge of his area. Sounds more interesting than it real 2.5 stars First, I wanna say that I will be reading the next book. I wasn't all that impressed with Underworld , but * sigh * it's a trilogy...and I'm now more than halfway done with it. Pierce, the intrepid heroine of this story, is kind of idiotic. I don't understand the attraction between her and John, aka a death deity. No, he's not the Death Deity...just one of the many, evidently. So, he's not Hades or Lord of the Underworld, he's just in charge of his area. Sounds more interesting than it really is, I guess. So far, they haven't spent much time in the Underworld, so you don't really get a feel for the place. Most of the time they spend arguing about whether or not Pierce is staying with him, or going back to her home. She wants to stay, she wants to go, he wants her to stay, he lies to her, she forgives him, she needs to rescue her idiot cousin so she needs to go, he doesn't want her to go, he doesn't want her to find out how he became a death deity, she forgives him, she can't wait to be back in his arms ( cause he makes her tingly! ), a couple of near-death experiences, blah, blah, blah, blah.... There's nothing substantial to this plot. Nothing. Why, oh, why do have this obsessive need to finish trilogies?! ...more 2012... lots of things im waiting for are coming 2012... what a busy year... im gonna be piled with new books ive been desperately waiting for to come out... I think I loved this as much as I loved Abandon! I love Pierce's fiery personality and her friend Kayla. I can't wait for the next one! I love Meg Cabot's writing. Love, love, love. Her books are clever and funny, and her leading heroines are sympathetic and, if not always the smartest cookie in the box, at least they are likeable and able to catch one or two clues. Which is why it is so disappointing to read UNDERWORLD. I admit I haven't read ABANDON, the first book in the series; when it came out I was on a book budget and I never did go back and find it. But I was thrilled beyond belief to receive UNDERWORLD in my RT welcome ba I love Meg Cabot's writing. Love, love, love. Her books are clever and funny, and her leading heroines are sympathetic and, if not always the smartest cookie in the box, at least they are likeable and able to catch one or two clues. Which is why it is so disappointing to read UNDERWORLD. I admit I haven't read ABANDON, the first book in the series; when it came out I was on a book budget and I never did go back and find it. But I was thrilled beyond belief to receive UNDERWORLD in my RT welcome bag. I couldn't wait to dive in. Alas. I was confused from the get-go: Pierce talks about her near-death (or actual death) experience, then all of a sudden she wakes up in the Underworld. I had to go back and re-read a few times to get the transition and orient myself (although I suppose I felt how Pierce feels when John whips her between worlds, so perhaps it served a purpose.) There a lot of flashbacks, and even flash forwards, and I never felt anchored to a time and place. I had some confusion as to how the Diamond of Persephone works: there were a few times when it warned Pierce of danger, but then the danger seemed to go away without revealing itself. Overall, the plot never seemed to gel for me; it was a series of hop-skipping from location to location, for what seemed no other purpose except so the heroine could learn bits of back story. So that put quite the damper on my readerly enthusiasm. But there are things to like about the book, which is why I gave it three stars. Even though this book is less sparkling and witty than the other Cabot books I've read, there are some genuinely funny lines and smart observations. And as always, Cabot excels at depicting teens (aside from the main hero & heroine, more on that later.) I really liked Pierce's interactions with her friend Kayla and her cousin Alex. Both relationships, even though barely on the page, felt real and multi-layered. Even the \"A-wing\" characters of Seth and Farah felt real. And other supporting characters are also terrific, from Mr. Smith the cemetery sexton and his partner, Patrick, to Pierce's Uncle Chris, to John's Underworld crew. Each one is three-dimensional, with their own quirks and speech patterns. And I loved how Cabot worked 19th century history into the book. However, I do think this book suffers from \"second book in a trilogy-itis.\" It's so obviously the filler in a Set Up the Bad Guys/Take Down the Bad Guys sandwich. I suppose we learn more about the Underworld, John, and his friends, plus it sets up the mortal bad guys on Isla Huesos, but all the revelations felt forced, instead of organic to the story. And speaking of forced revelations, Pierce is one TSTL heroine (well, I guess in a way she didn't live, so perhaps she's just fulfilling her destiny.) She continually leaps before she looks, gets caught in one of John's obfuscations, forgives him, then does it again. It's enough to make you root for the Furies and hope they finally bump her off for good (although, again, how does that work if John is the Lord of the Dead - couldn't he just keep her shade around? Cabot is very mum on what actually happens to the dead after they reach John's realm, except that they are given blankets because they are cold - can you be cold when you are dead?? - and put in boats to some mysterious elsewhere.) And speaking of John: Dear Meg (and Meg's publishers), You are a very talented writer. You write entire rings, if not planets and universes, around Stephenie Meyer. And your most stunning attribute is your fantastic voice. So please, for the love of anything you hold dear, STOP WITH THE TWILIGHT NONSENSE AND THE DEPICTION OF \"TWUE WUV\" AS ONLY BEING POSSIBLE BETWEEN A MALE WHO OBSESSIVELY STALKS, LIES TO THE FEMALE, AND DRAGS HER FROM HER FAMILY; AND A FEMALE TOO STUPID TO ASK A FEW PERTINENT QUESTIONS ALONG THE WAY BECAUSE, LIKE, THE GUY HAS A HOT BOD SO IT'S OKAY TO GIVE UP HER FAMILY, HER FRIENDS, AND HER FUTURE FOR HIM. Because I know the Meg Cabot who writes her blog doesn't believe that crap for one minute. Sorry for the all-cap yelling, but I'm THAT disappointed in y'all. It feels like you are chasing the audience's bucks, instead of chasing a story you really want to tell. Besides, you can't catch lightning in a bottle twice (well, okay, maybe you can if you count Fifty Shades of Grey, but that's a whole 'nother head-scratching ball of wax.) Sincerely, Concerned Reader P.S. Although, you got me at the end and I will probably pick up the third book in the series. Well played, publishing people, well played. But I'm still vastly disappointed and annoyed at the relationship. Suffice to say I'll be reading for everything BUT Pierce and John. ...more Also Found On: A Book and A Record After reading Abandon, I really didn\u2019t know if I had it in me to continue on with the series. But, they\u2019re not that many pages and I read pretty fast so I thought \u201cwhat the heck, might as well\u201d and unfortunately, I wasn\u2019t too impressed (I should have known, right!?) Underworld picks up exactly where Abandon left off. It was a worthy sequel in that it didn\u2019t really feel like a sequel. Pierce is still kind of a whiner, and manipulates John into doing whatever she Also Found On: A Book and A Record After reading Abandon, I really didn\u2019t know if I had it in me to continue on with the series. But, they\u2019re not that many pages and I read pretty fast so I thought \u201cwhat the heck, might as well\u201d and unfortunately, I wasn\u2019t too impressed (I should have known, right!?) Underworld picks up exactly where Abandon left off. It was a worthy sequel in that it didn\u2019t really feel like a sequel. Pierce is still kind of a whiner, and manipulates John into doing whatever she wants. Although she is getting a little bit better at listening to him. The strangest thing for me about Underworld is that I never really felt a lot of chemistry happening between Pierce and John. Cabot is excellent at chemistry. She is practically the QUEEN of shy glances, and epic pseudo damsel in distress sequences. Seriously. This is one of the best things about Meg. She knows how to write the perfect girl book. She has a lot of heart, and so do her characters. And she knows how to write the perfectly cute dialogue between teenage boy and girl that makes up the relationship. However, with Pierce and John the spark that Meg is so good at was noticeably absent. I\u2019ve read all of Meg\u2019s books (well, all of the ones for Young Adults and Middle Readers, and the Boy series, and the Heather Wells Mysteries and the first and second Queen of Babble books) and there was just something so\u2026off about this one. The story was well constructed, and I love the idea the Meg has done. The story of Persephone is one that has always been incredible fascinating, and the way that it is incorporated into this one is awesome! Because Meg isn\u2019t trying to re-create anything, or do a simple \u201cYA Updated Version\u201d she is spinning the tale on it\u2019s head and has created some pretty real characters. In fact, it\u2019s their real-ness that has me annoyed. Meg is pretty good at taking me out of real life, to a witty, hilarious other-world that I really love and wish actually existed. Is that weird. Underworld, which is one of Meg\u2019s first legitimate \u201cfantasy\u201d novels is the one that is most real dialogue wise. And that is the reason that I was kind of disappointed in it? ...more Originally posted at The Teen Book Guru The myth of Persephone has always enthralled me and is one of my absolute favorite Greek myths, so when I found out that one of my favorite authors, Meg Cabot, who I LOVE to death (heehee... no pun intended), was writing a re-telling of it, I knew I was going to be in for a treat. So it was no surprise that Abandon, the first book in the trilogy had me jumping up and down and smiling like a lunatic as soon as I finished it. And Underworld left me feeling th Originally posted at The Teen Book Guru The myth of Persephone has always enthralled me and is one of my absolute favorite Greek myths, so when I found out that one of my favorite authors, Meg Cabot, who I LOVE to death (heehee... no pun intended), was writing a re-telling of it, I knew I was going to be in for a treat. So it was no surprise that Abandon, the first book in the trilogy had me jumping up and down and smiling like a lunatic as soon as I finished it. And Underworld left me feeling the exact same way... giddy and yearning for more. And for those of y'all that haven't read Abandon or Underworld (WHY?!) then pick it up! Especially if you are a fan of Greek myths, like moi. Pierce is back... but this time, she isn't dead. She finds herself in the Underworld, with her 'captor' , John Hayden, aka The Lord of the Underworld. He has kidnapped her again, to keep her safe from the Furies. Guys, let me just say that I love John. Like, seriously love him. There is something so dark and dangerous, yet innocent and lovable about him. And although he isn't without flaws (but then, who is?), his imperfections are what make him perfect to me. Pierce is such a great character as well. She is adorable, funny, sweet and caring - what is not to love about her? And even though she makes mistakes, she always tries to fix them, and I respect that. She is definitely one of my favorite heroines! In Underworld, Meg Cabot re-imagines and modernizes the dark myth of Persephone and fills it with charm, wit, and humor, alongside a hot lord of the Underworld and a kick-ass heroine. ...more I really didn't like this book. Sorry. Underworld est le second livre dans la trilogie Abandon de Meg Cabot. <---C>Pierce Oliviera</---C> est retenue dans cet entre-deux entre enfer et paradis, ou les \u00e2mes des morts attendent de conna\u00eetre leur sort. Celui qui l'y a emmen\u00e9e, John Hayden, a beau assurer que c'est pour sa s\u00fbret\u00e9, Pierce tient \u00e0 revenir sur terre, ou tout du moins \u00e0 dire au revoir \u00e0 ce qu'elle connaissait... Mais les furies la cherchent toujours, et elle n'en sera jamais \u00e0 l'abri. Underworld \u00e9tait un livre tr\u00e8s agr\u00e9able \u00e0 lire, aut Underworld est le second livre dans la trilogie Abandon de Meg Cabot. Pierce Oliviera est retenue dans cet entre-deux entre enfer et paradis, ou les \u00e2mes des morts attendent de conna\u00eetre leur sort. Celui qui l'y a emmen\u00e9e, John Hayden, a beau assurer que c'est pour sa s\u00fbret\u00e9, Pierce tient \u00e0 revenir sur terre, ou tout du moins \u00e0 dire au revoir \u00e0 ce qu'elle connaissait... Mais les furies la cherchent toujours, et elle n'en sera jamais \u00e0 l'abri. Underworld \u00e9tait un livre tr\u00e8s agr\u00e9able \u00e0 lire, autant que Abandon, le premier livre de la trilogie... malgr\u00e9 quelques points n\u00e9gatifs: Contrairement au livre pr\u00e9c\u00e9dent, Underworld \u00e9tait vraiment plein d'action... voir trop plein d'action. Les \u00e9v\u00e8nements s'enchainaient les uns apr\u00e8s les autres, presque sans aucun moment de transition et ne laissant aux pauvres personnages aucun moment de r\u00e9pit. Oui, trop d'action tue l'action, et au bout d'un moment cela mena\u00e7ait m\u00eame d'enlever pas mal de cr\u00e9dibilit\u00e9 \u00e0 l'intrigue, et ne laissait en m\u00eame temps pas assez de moments entre les deux protagonistes, Pierce et John: ils passent le livre ensemble, mais j'aurais pr\u00e9f\u00e9r\u00e9 qu'ils aient au moins un ou deux interludes durant plus d'une page ou ils puissent discuter de fa\u00e7on repos\u00e9e... Lire le livre \u00e9tait donc un peu \u00e9reintant, sachant qu'il \u00e9tait donc un peu difficile de s'arr\u00eater de lire puisque l'action ne s'arr\u00eatait jamais et qu'il est peu commode de s'arr\u00eater de lire en pleine action. Et il est vrai que la cr\u00e9dibilit\u00e9 descendait un peu: vu que tout s'enchainait, certains \u00e9l\u00e9ments ou conclusions des personnages servant \u00e0 faire avancer l'action paraissaient un peu trop faciles... Il \u00e9tait donc dommage que le livre soit si compact. Ce n'\u00e9tait au final pas vraiment g\u00eanant puisque j'ai tout de m\u00eame ador\u00e9 le livre, mais l'action aurait pu \u00eatre un peu plus dilu\u00e9e. A part \u00e7a, le livre \u00e9tait bien s\u00fbr tr\u00e8s bien \u00e9crit: j'ai lu beaucoup de livre de Meg Cabot, et ils sont toujours merveilleux \u00e0 lire de ce point de vue l\u00e0: malgr\u00e9 les quelques co\u00efncidences trop co\u00efncidente, justement, tout \u00e9tait fait de mani\u00e8re assez subtile, avec des bons dialogues. (Dieu merci, pas de dialogue cucul-la-praline ou path\u00e9tique, ce qui commence \u00e0 devenir un peu trop courant dans les livres YA...). En ce qui concerne l'intrigue elle m\u00eame, je n'ai pas non plus \u00e9t\u00e9 d\u00e9\u00e7ue: Abandon abordait tr\u00e8s bien le sujet, mais c'est vraiment Underworld qui constituait le coeur de l'intrigue, ce n'\u00e9tait donc pas du tout un livre-remplissage, comme j'en avais peur. Bien s\u00fbr, j'adore tout ce qui est r\u00e9\u00e9critures, surtout de la mythologie grecque, donc je n'avais pas trop de doutes concernant la trilogie elle-m\u00eame... L'histoire ne suit d'ailleurs pas exactement le mythe d'Hades et de Pers\u00e9phone mais s'en inspire, ce qui est par ailleurs encore mieux vu que la base de la mythologie grecque est toujours l\u00e0 mais qu'on d\u00e9couvre toujours une autre histoire. J'ai beaucoup aim\u00e9 la fa\u00e7on dont les personnages \u00e9taient pr\u00e9sent\u00e9s: au del\u00e0 des personnages principaux, John et Pierce, le d\u00e9veloppement de Kayla et Alex \u00e9tait aussi tr\u00e8s int\u00e9ressant. Ils n'\u00e9taient pas trop pr\u00e9sents dans le premier livre, et c'\u00e9tait une bonne surprise de les retrouver plus dans le deuxi\u00e8me. Et je tiens \u00e0 remercier Meg Cabot pour la fin du livre, qui pour une fois ne me laissera pas tortur\u00e9e pendant un an \u00e0 cause d'un horrible cliffhanger. Il y a juste assez de suspens pour me garder int\u00e9ress\u00e9e mais pas assez pour me donner en vie d'aller dans le futur r\u00e9cup\u00e9rer ce fichu livre. Donc merci. Ma liste de livres avec des horribles cliffhangers dont la suite ne sort pas avant longtemps est d\u00e9j\u00e0 bien assez longue... Mais j'attends tout de m\u00eame avec beaucoup d'impatience le troisi\u00e8me et dernier tome de cette trilogie. Un livre assez agr\u00e9able \u00e0 lire, donc, plein d'action, avec une intrigue agr\u00e9able et une h\u00e9ro\u00efne supportable. Et, bien s\u00fbr, John, sans qui le livre ne serait pas du tout aussi int\u00e9ressant \u00e0 lire... ...more I am highly disappointed in this second installment. Compared to the 1st book, which I thought was quite good, it felt as though I was not even reading about the same characters that I met in book 1. The \"Teaser\" you read on the back of this book, is just that a teaser. It's like you've been shown previews that you are not going to see in the actual movie. I will tell you what I dislike about this book. 1. EVERYONE IN THIS BOOK WERE ACTING LIKE COMPLETE IDIOTS. (with the exception of John) Which e I am highly disappointed in this second installment. Compared to the 1st book, which I thought was quite good, it felt as though I was not even reading about the same characters that I met in book 1. The \"Teaser\" you read on the back of this book, is just that a teaser. It's like you've been shown previews that you are not going to see in the actual movie. I will tell you what I dislike about this book. 1. EVERYONE IN THIS BOOK WERE ACTING LIKE COMPLETE IDIOTS. (with the exception of John) Which even then, I did not like his eager drive to willingly deceive Pierce through out this book. And we're talking about deception to the highest power here. Does one deceive so easily the one he claims to love? Her well being and what was in her best interests were always what was most important for Pierce right? According to John. Yet he had no problem letting go of this noble stance when it came to getting what he wanted. Consequences be damned. Yet the ones who were stuck in the underworld with him, this fact seemed to tear at his (John's) soul. \"It's wrong\" he said. \"I would undo it if I could\" he said. Yet he will condemn the one he actually loves to this place? To this life and purposely lie and deceive to achieve this. So by the time she figures out what's really going on it will be too late. Therefore taking away from her the right to have made a real choice in the matter. Not one that's just based on the fact that she loves him... Yeah a complete jacked up contradiction. And it doesn't stir the Kool-aid for me when it comes to the tone of this book and trying to win me over to John. 2. Why are you taking your own sweet time getting away when you KNOW that the Furies are there, where you are in that moment to kill you? Pierce is like the dumbest chick ever! Yet another thing that didn't flow with this story. And this happens for 75% of the book. 3. Your missing for 2 days. Your picture is in the paper. Your mother is beside herself as well as your father. The whole town knows you've been \"abducted\" yet when you run into your friends, they are reacting like you've just only been placed on a punishment of sorts by your parents. So then, they immediately go into a long drawn out discussion about absolutely nothing! And you're standing there, listening and talking. When you are suppose to be getting in and getting out. WTFreak is this?! Ridiculous is what it is. 4. The drama/suspense... Where was it? The cliff hanger, should not even be considered that. Just another bogus and failed attempt to hook you to get to book 3. I'm not biting. This was the worst 2nd installment to a trilogy that I have ever read. For a trilogy that started out so promising I'm HIGHLY disappointed. So I can't in good faith recommend this read. I will not be moving on to the final book. ...more To See Full Review Click Here: http://yalbookbriefs.blogspot.com/201... Underworld is a definite improvement from Abandon which is a good thing which isn't saying Abandon is a bad book because it isn't, but Underworld the story really does pick up. The action scenes in this book were excellent. It might not be the best book for younger Cabot fans to read, but older teens and adults will appreciate these sequences. Pierce and John are also more developed in the sequel. Although, sometimes Pierce's To See Full Review Click Here: http://yalbookbriefs.blogspot.com/201... Underworld is a definite improvement from Abandon which is a good thing which isn't saying Abandon is a bad book because it isn't, but Underworld the story really does pick up. The action scenes in this book were excellent. It might not be the best book for younger Cabot fans to read, but older teens and adults will appreciate these sequences. Pierce and John are also more developed in the sequel. Although, sometimes Pierce's naivety about some things rubbed me the wrong way. John, however, couldn't rub me the wrong way if he tried. I love the fact that John is so developed that he's not a light or dark character. That he's sort of gray. The plot also develops in this installment. While some questions are answered, by the end of the book you'll be asking yourself even more questions. It's quite infuriating really. But I can't really gripe about this too much since it makes me want to read the sequel, Awaken, like now. One qualm I did have with the book is that everyone and their mother seemed to be a fury. Really? Really? Shouldn't there be some like fury standards or something, Meg? There were some other potential plot holes in the novel as well, but I am hoping that Awaken will answer them. Overall, this book is a great read. It's not Classic Meg Cabot for sure, but if you like Meg Cabot's books with a darker twist this is one to read. Best Feature: John. I really do like John. He has an interesting backstory and he's a gray character. I love gray characters. They seem more realistic then having a purely good or evil character. Worst Feature: Dumb Heroines. Pierce I love you and I get that you're not great at school, and I can appreciate that (because honestly I'm tired of all these AP smarties being YA heroines). But I wish you at the very least had some street smarts a la Suze Simon. Sure, you had your moments, but come on you should've have thought it out a little bit before you started eating food in the Underworld. I know you learned that it was only pomegranate seeds that could force you to stay there, but I would've been a little weary of eating anything in the Underworld. Period. Appropriateness: This is a little bit of an edgy book for a Meg Cabot book. There's some inappropriate language, some violence, death related material, and a sex scene (though it's mostly implied and fades to black pretty quickly). ...more 3.5 stars, rounded up. After being attacked by her grandmother, who is possessed by a Fury, Pierce Olivier is whisked away to the Underworld by its ruler, John Hayden. Only she's not dead. Yet. John claims that he's keeping her in the Underworld to keep her safe, and she wants to believe him. She feels protected in his arms, in the Underworld. But when her cell phone starts depicting an image of her cousin in danger, she risks everything to make sure he's okay. But she must constantly be on alert 3.5 stars, rounded up. After being attacked by her grandmother, who is possessed by a Fury, Pierce Olivier is whisked away to the Underworld by its ruler, John Hayden. Only she's not dead. Yet. John claims that he's keeping her in the Underworld to keep her safe, and she wants to believe him. She feels protected in his arms, in the Underworld. But when her cell phone starts depicting an image of her cousin in danger, she risks everything to make sure he's okay. But she must constantly be on alert- the living, the dead, and those in between all want her killed. If she's not careful, they will get their wish. -- Underworld is the second book in the Abandon series by Meg Cabot. + Greek myths are some of my favorite stories to read. I really enjoyed this retelling of the myth of Persephone and Hades using modern technology and plot twists. The Underworld and John both were depicted as dark but beautiful. I can't say that I blame Pierce for wanting to stay with him down there. + I loved the setting. The island on which Pierce lives, as well as the festivities held there, sound like a blast. I was easily able to see what the author wanted me to, and I wanted to go party on Coffin Night with the rest of the locals. Plus, there are pirates. Who doesn't like pirates? + The cover is gorgeous. It is what first attracted me to the novel. It stands out on a shelf, which is a definite positive. - I didn't read Underworld's predecessor, Abandon. I feel as though I missed a lot by not doing so. I was often confused, if only for a moment, by references made to Pierce's past that I assume I would have learned in book one. This lack of knowledge on my part lowered this book's rating. This isn't the kind of series, lesson learned, that should be read out of order. All in all, I feel as though this book is the dark tale of Hades for the teenage girl audience. There's romance, death, broody alpha males, and flirtatious sailors. I recommend it for YA readers and those who enjoy myths. If you're looking for the gritty, gothic, bloody tale of Hades, then pass this book up. I also recommend reading book one first- maybe you'll get more out of the sequel than I did. Thank you to Short and Sweet Reviews for my copy. This review can be found on my new blog, Bitches n Prose . ...more I love Greek mythology retellings, especially the various Hades and Persephone versions that have been so popular in the YA market the past year. ABANDON by Meg Cabot was one of my favorites so I was eager to see where she took her reimagining in the sequel, UNDERWORLD. And to be honest, I enjoyed this one even more than the first. It\u2019s hard to talk about second books in reviews in case anyone missed the first, so I will try to leave out particular plot points. But what I can say is how pleasantl I love Greek mythology retellings, especially the various Hades and Persephone versions that have been so popular in the YA market the past year. ABANDON by Meg Cabot was one of my favorites so I was eager to see where she took her reimagining in the sequel, UNDERWORLD. And to be honest, I enjoyed this one even more than the first. It\u2019s hard to talk about second books in reviews in case anyone missed the first, so I will try to leave out particular plot points. But what I can say is how pleasantly surprised I was to see Cabot avoiding so many obvious choices. From the description above you know Pierce is a character stuck between two worlds. Stuck between the living and the dead and between the boy she loves and the family she left behind. But beyond that, the description, to be honest, is not that accurate. After reading the blurb, I totally expected a typical second book where one of the central struggles, if not the main one, is the relationship between Pierce and John. And yes, we do discover things about John\u2019s character meant to shock and confuse us, BUT that was not the main conflict. If anything, the main conflict was inside of Pierce. Pierce is a strong character who is in touch with her emotions and can think on her feet. I felt much more connected with her in this sequel. I didn\u2019t find her whiney, like she so could\u2019ve been, or weak, or even overly aggressive. She was just a normal girl, one I could see myself in\u2026.well, if I had become the consort of a death deity. And John was simply scrumptious. Romance fans will be happy to know he is around for almost the entire book, so we get to know him a lot better. We also get to explore the depth of their relationship, their feelings, and their future. We\u2019re also introduced to a ton of fresh characters who keep the plot fun and moving quickly. For fans of Greek mythology retellings who love a spunky voice, this offering by Meg Cabot (arguably the queen of YA Contemporary) is not to be missed. ...more Wtf Did I just read, seriously.. WTF...I don't rightly know what it was but I do feel like I lost a few I.Q points while reading it. My brain has melted and poured out of my ears and pooled at my feet. I didn't really care much for any of the characters in this book, John, he had his moments but he was a bit to creepy stalker for me, he had this crazy way of thinking all the bad selfish things he was forcing upon Pierce was all for the greater good and that she should thank him for it... and Pie Wtf Did I just read, seriously.. WTF...I don't rightly know what it was but I do feel like I lost a few I.Q points while reading it. My brain has melted and poured out of my ears and pooled at my feet. I didn't really care much for any of the characters in this book, John, he had his moments but he was a bit to creepy stalker for me, he had this crazy way of thinking all the bad selfish things he was forcing upon Pierce was all for the greater good and that she should thank him for it... and Pierce, don't even get me started.. all I'll say is I don't think she came back from her NDE as unscathed as she thought she did because that girl has got to have severe brain damage to even be as STUPID as she is. What kind of self respecting girl would put up with even half the crap John did to her. Only a girl with major head trauma produced from being dead for an hour with no oxygen to the brain.. I honestly can't believe I must suffer through another instalment to this series. Please Meg Cabot do us all a favor and help Pierce grow a pair and kick Mr moody death deity to the underworldy curb, at least then you can redeem yourself and the example you are setting for young girls who read this garbage and think this type of relationship is even remotely ok. Thanks, thank you so much for this part of my life I'll never get back. Ugh! ...more Underworld is the sequel to Meg Cabot\u2019s Abandon, a retelling of Greek mythology and fairy tales. Abandon is such an incredible book and a favorite of mine, so I expected the same caliber for the sequel. Meg continues to raise the lever with each book she releases. And Underworld is no exception. The story follows the main character, Pierce, who is caught between two worlds. Wedged between the living and the dead, she\u2019s also stuck between the family she left behind and the boy she loves. She\u2019s a v Underworld is the sequel to Meg Cabot\u2019s Abandon, a retelling of Greek mythology and fairy tales. Abandon is such an incredible book and a favorite of mine, so I expected the same caliber for the sequel. Meg continues to raise the lever with each book she releases. And Underworld is no exception. The story follows the main character, Pierce, who is caught between two worlds. Wedged between the living and the dead, she\u2019s also stuck between the family she left behind and the boy she loves. She\u2019s a very strong and intelligent character. Her connection with the reader is more devoted this time around. Readers will find her to be easily relatable as she\u2019s very much in touch with her emotions and relies on no one for her decisions. The sequel to Meg\u2019s Abandon trilogy is a roller-coaster ride of adventure, mystery, and action. It is fast-paced read since the book takes place in the span of just over a day. Even with the overwhelming occurrences, Meg does a terrific job of keeping everything on a straight line. The relationship-building between Pierce and John is one of the best part of the book. Now that she has admitted her feelings to John and with the many secrets, untold truths, and misapprehensions between them, they learn to trust each other even under the peculiar circumstances between them. Meg\u2019s writing style is very stunning and repeatedly shines throughout the book. The sequel is just as exhilarating as Abandon. With rich descriptions of the setting, unique plot, and stellar character building, Underworld has everything to offer for a great read. The ending will leave readers wanting more as it sets up the next phase in Pierce\u2019s story. ...more", "Title": "Underworld"},
