{"Comments": "********** SPOILER ALERT ********** I try not to be a poisonous witch about my reviews, but I'm going to be honest here. Guys: YOU CAN'T JUST QUIT CUTTING YOURSELF BECAUSE YOU FALL IN LOVE. Serious addict to cutting who cures herself via uncomfortably overbearing sixteen-year-old boyfriend? Are you serious? Beyond being unrealistic, the message strikes me as creepy and potentially harmful. Guy is a sixteen-year-old kid, which means he is unlikely to devote himself to an intense relationship with a ********** SPOILER ALERT ********** I try not to be a poisonous witch about my reviews, but I'm going to be honest here. Guys: YOU CAN'T JUST QUIT CUTTING YOURSELF BECAUSE YOU FALL IN LOVE. Serious addict to cutting who cures herself via uncomfortably overbearing sixteen-year-old boyfriend? Are you serious? Beyond being unrealistic, the message strikes me as creepy and potentially harmful. Guy is a sixteen-year-old kid, which means he is unlikely to devote himself to an intense relationship with a very troubled girl that he hardly knows. But let's be super nice and say there are a few sixteen-year-old boys out there who would do this. Even so, I've still got a tremendous problem with Guy, which is this: GUY IS CREEPY.<---F> I mean, hello</---F>. Let's recap: <---C>Willow</---C> is sixteen years old, and she is hurting herself. She needs help. But instead she enters a relationship with a boy who confesses to having carried a condom around since the day they met (please tell me I'm not the only one who is nauseated by this). He grabs <+++>Willow</+++>'s wrist. He throws a box of razor blades at her. In the middle of her grieving process, <+++>Willow</+++> surrenders her virginity to him,<---M> and then oh</---M>, cool! Time to throw the razor blades into the lake! Because now she's got her boyfriend Guy! Does this sound like a healthy relationship to you? And wait- does this also sound like recovery? Answer: no, no, and also, NO. Healthy relationships involve respect and equality. Recovery involves recognizing your addiction, seeking help from a professional if at all possible, and very slowly finding new ways to cope through your own strength and determination. Willow suggests that sweeping romance and premature sex will guide self-harming teenage girls to safety, and I'm sorry, but I strongly protest against that concept. I'm still waiting for a realistic, honest, well-written teen read about the addiction that touches the lives of teens all over the world. Let me know when it comes around, because in my opinion, it is not here yet. ...more A warning: THIS IS A RANT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. More warnings and such: My dear, dear, good readers. If you are easily offended and/or loved this book, do not read the upcoming review. It will contain a lot of stuff that you will probably not like. And there will be spoilers. So. This is my opinion of this book. Do not write a comment about \"how nasty I am\" or \"how serious the topic of this book is and how I shouldn't be so crass\". I am fully aware that cutting is a serious issue. I am fully awar A warning: THIS IS A RANT. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. More warnings and such: My dear, dear, good readers. If you are easily offended and/or loved this book, do not read the upcoming review. It will contain a lot of stuff that you will probably not like. And there will be spoilers. So. This is my opinion of this book. Do not write a comment about \"how nasty I am\" or \"how serious the topic of this book is and how I shouldn't be so crass\". I am fully aware that cutting is a serious issue. I am fully aware of the devastating tragedy that Willow experienced, (just typing her name makes me pissed) and you should know that I'm not by any means making light of the situation. I know that the subject matter of this book is dark. So don't think I'm not mature enough to understand the seriousness of the topic! Or else I will hit you with my stuffed animal. Time to review! *cackles manically* The main reason why I despised this book so much was, you guessed it, the Weeping Willow. I cannot sympathize with a character who believes that everyone else's problems are stupid and meaningless compared to hers. She criticized, insulted, and ridiculed any character who did not understand the \"depth\" of her issues. Instead of Willow appearing as a victim of ultimate trauma who needed emotional help, she appeared as a self-pitying, attention seeking teenager who held herself on this weird guilt-pedestal. \"I am Queen Willow, and your problems don't mean anything compared to mine! Also, I have this italicized inner monologue that will probably pop up four times every pages to provide you with asinine comments that will make you want to punch me in the chin.\" This chick needed a major reality check. News flash! Just because you tell people your parents are dead, it doesn't necessarily mean they're going to burst into tears. I once high-fived a boy whose grandpa just died because \"my grandpa is dead too\". *i am an ass* See, Willow? Human beings can and are allowed to be stupid. Some more dumb than others. *clears throat* Besides Willow's feel-sorry-for-me, my-life-is-so-hard attitude, she also was so ungrateful for Guy's presence in her life I wanted to smack her. Did I like Guy? No. Did I like that Guy did not tell about Willow's cutting? No. But did I still think Willow treated him like crap? Yes. She was so damn unthankful for his company it made me disgusted. You think he wanted to have all this added stress on his life? You could at least say \"hey, I know I'm a bitch and everything, but I'm actually kind of a little bit thankful for your presence. also, in a couple more chapters, I'm going to make out with you forcefully and put your hands on my boobs. and then I'm going to cut myself in front of you while you scream \"oh my god! oh my god!\" and make julie face palm so hard she has a bruise on her forehead.\" Ok, so maybe not that last part. But you get what I mean. Right? RIGHT? I'm not kidding, this book got me so mad my heart was beating a mile a minute and my face was turning red. (woah, that sounded like I was getting turned on) For instance: Chloe and Laurie (the two most stereotyped, two-dimensional girl characters to ever exist in the land of books) are talking about some stupid crap that I couldn't care less about. Willow suddenly \"bursts out\" that her brother has to sign something as her \"legal guardian\" and says another thing about how \"he has to do that now\" because \"her parents are dead\" (as if we haven't been reminded that she's a \"murderer'\" 200 times already). Cue the hair tearing: \"Oh.\" Laurie pause for a moment. \"It's terrible about your parents,\" she says quietly. \"But you know,\" she continues, \"at least your brother's willing to do this kind of thing. I can't imagine mine would. I mean, it's sort of sweet, don't you think?\" Laurie's a nice girl. She's truly nice. She's willing to include Willow in whatever she's doing, she's willing to overlook stupid remarks about kittens, she's willing to commiserate about failed quizzes, and she's even, unlike some people, compassionate about Willow's situation. But it's clear that as kind as she is, caring as she is, she's utterly clueless! \" Screw you, Willow. Also, <---A>Julia Hoban</---A> has this really neat thing of listing the same thing twice in row. Example: Willow felt like she was going to throw up. \"Oh my God! I'm going to throw up!\" Willow felt cold. \"I'm cold.\" Willow is an annoying protagonist. \"I am an annoying protagonist.\" No, those examples weren't direct quotations taken from this hellish book, but you get what I mean. (You know a book is bad when you can't sympathize with a 16 years old girl who lost her parents in a car accident and now is a cutter to relieve herself of the pain.) Anyway. The rest of the characters? There were more besides her? Oh yeah, that guy. Guy. The sweet one who read that book, right? I didn't like him. Firstly, he grabbed her arm (big no-no) and made her cuts bleed. Secondly, And he also carried a condom around in his wallet basically right after he met her. Who cares about a thirdly?! Did you read what I just wrote?! HOW DO PEOPLE FIND THIS ROMANTIC? A boy carries a condom in his wallet after he basically just met you. IS THIS NOT CREEPY TO YOU?!?! I'll tell you what is creepy, the three page conversation I had to read between Guy and Willow while she was naked and they were about to have sex. Is that not weird? \"Oh, hey, let me take your bra off. You know, the weather's been really nice lately. We should go for a picnic later.\" And they also \"did the nasty\" right after she finished ugly sobbing. Like, I get it, romance and crap, but after she finished crying? I look like cow manure after I cry. Maybe he likes it dirty? (\"dirty\" meaning \"snot is everywhere\") He also had some major anger management issues. (could it be character development?) He freaked me out at some points. Randomly he would just blow up. He also threw a box of razors of her . ARE YOU JOKING? That is not ok. He then \"apologized\" or some weird crap and suddenly everything was back to normal. Really? Does anyone else find this to totally not be okay? Chloe, Laurie, and Andy were just there . Andy's only purpose was to share some unneeded conversation about rowing and provide some idiotic comments for Willow to feed upon. They were bland, dull, and lifeless. I understand that the terrific trio were \"secondary\" characters, but I'd appreciate some quirkiness from them or something . Chloe and Laurie were two girls who liked shoes. That's all. Also, Pueblo or Pablo or Pedro who worked at the library was only created so Willow could get out of working. And for some unnecessary winking and \"boy talk\". Or whatever. Who cares. I thought there was going to be some weird-ass love triangle. I was wrong. Oh, and why was David so calm about realizing that Willow had sex? Is this how society is now? He said something about \"16 and 17 year olds\" and I was like, is this what kids do now? This is okay and common? WHY AREN'T YOU ANSWERING MY QUESTIONS? So, I guess I'll list some of my favorite quotes (from the last like, 20 pages. Since I forgot to dog-ear the first 300. oops.) Your blush doesn't end at your neck.\" Is that supposed to be sexy? \"guess what baby. your boobs blush too\" \"Willow.\" Guy bites his lip. I'm your lover now. That box of blades can't be your lover anymore, no matter how much they've been there in the past.\" What the hell is this, 50 Shades of Gray? \"I do need need you to talk to me! I do need you to talk to me! I do need you talk to me! I do need you to talk to me.\" Is it just me, or does she need you to talk to her? \"I get mad because I can't have sex with my wife whenever I want because this apartment is so small and I don't want my little sister to hear us.\" And then the book ends with Guy and Willow dropping a box of razors into the water and killing 300 fish. But Willow has a boyfriend now so she's all better!!! Yay!!!! No. The topic of cutting is too serious to end like that. I thought that maybe it would have an epilogue of Willow, I don't know, in counseling? I can't pretend like I have any knowledge of cutting. I haven't met anyone (or have consciously known anyone) who cuts, but Willow's depression and guilt seemed too strong to just .... end like that now that Guy's here. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. Needless to say, JULIE NOW DOES HAPPY DANCE BECAUSE BAD BOOK IS OVER! *happy dances all the way to australia* ..... ...... ......... So, do you hate me yet? I would apologize for this rant, but my mean other half has taken control of my body. As I said above, way way above, like, in the beginning, I don't normally write reviews like this. I try to keep my insult-level to a low, but the aggravation this book caused me to endure was like no other. I couldn't stand it. My mom was seriously concerned for my health, since I kept randomly yelling and hitting my head. And also, I'm not insulting anyone who cuts. Cutting is a very serious issue and I'm not trying to make light of it. I'm not that much of a heartless wench. I hope you don't despise me now, but a girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do. Anyway, I hope you all have a darling day. *gives you flowers to make up for my meanness* (NOT FOR YOU, WILLOW. NOT FOR YOU.) ...more I\u2019m not even sure where to start this review. I\u2019ve honestly written this review almost five times and haven\u2019t been happy with what I\u2019ve spit out. I\u2019m not sure I can do this book justice. To say that it was spectacular would be an understatement. To say that I had a hard time putting it down, widely understated! Yet, why? Because in all seriousness, reading a story about a \u2018cutter\u2019 didn\u2019t really appeal to me. I mean sure it sounded interesting, and I\u2019ve read books about eating disorders, drugs, s I\u2019m not even sure where to start this review. I\u2019ve honestly written this review almost five times and haven\u2019t been happy with what I\u2019ve spit out. I\u2019m not sure I can do this book justice. To say that it was spectacular would be an understatement. To say that I had a hard time putting it down, widely understated! Yet, why? Because in all seriousness, reading a story about a \u2018cutter\u2019 didn\u2019t really appeal to me. I mean sure it sounded interesting, and I\u2019ve read books about eating disorders, drugs, so why not try cutting. So I did. I totally agree with Hoban\u2019s choice to write this novel in third person. Had it not been written from Willow\u2019s POV, I know I wouldn\u2019t have found it as impressive as I did. I needed that insight, I needed to know why someone would do that to their self. And I hate to admit it but I understood, I empathized, I accepted it. Hoban doesn\u2019t dance around the fact, there are some shockingly graphic scenes, but instead of grotesque they are honest and revealing. And it\u2019s not only the characterization of Willow that\u2019s impressive. It\u2019s the disheartening portrayal of Willow\u2019s brother David, and her warped sense of his withdrawal. It\u2019s the eccentric relationship between Willow and Guy. It\u2019s the secondary characters that have some of the smallest parts but remain prominent in your mind. For me I, couldn\u2019t stop thinking about the girl at the restaurant. Willow is about so much more than cutting. It\u2019s about love. Not only first love, but the power of redemption that only love can posses. Still haven\u2019t done the book justice, but I\u2019ll leave you with this. Yes, cutting is a painful subject to read about. But Willow was skillfully and uniquely told. Essentially the message is uplifting, even the worst of situations can improve. Glad I did. ...more NO. Just fuck no . This is not a self-harm story. It is a love story, featuring a cutter. It is the story of a codependent relationship that sickly revolves and surfaces through self-harm issues. I have been struggling with heavy self-harm issues for years, I was a cutter and just about a year ago I finished with my treatment and recovery, and I am appalled and also slightly insulted by knowing that a story like this is out there. Worse, that people think it's a sweet story. Willow is a 16 year NO. Just fuck no . This is not a self-harm story. It is a love story, featuring a cutter. It is the story of a codependent relationship that sickly revolves and surfaces through self-harm issues. I have been struggling with heavy self-harm issues for years, I was a cutter and just about a year ago I finished with my treatment and recovery, and I am appalled and also slightly insulted by knowing that a story like this is out there. Worse, that people think it's a sweet story. Willow is a 16 year old that self-harms - and for what it's worth I will say that the author did portray Willow's motive and the feeling and need for cutting quite well, but apart from that this book was shit. Why? Because the reason why Willow stops cutting, is because she meets a boy, a 16 year old named Guy. Guy barely knows Willow (one previous encounter to be exact) when he finds out about her cutting, and immediately he wants to 'help' her. He wants to tell Willow's brother that she cuts (he doesn't), then he's just constantly checking on her and making sure she is not cutting and checking her wrists, and yada yada. First, and I don't mean to sound bitter or anything, but, normal people don't do that. I know this from years of experience, I've been through the self-harm valley, been there, done that and I got the T-shirts: People don't go out of their way to help you, much less a 16 year old. It's not because they don't care or that they are cruel, of course not, it's because they don't know what to do, and you can't expect them to know either. Cutting is something that throws people off balance, everyone deals with pain in a certain point in their lives, but emotional pain is something that's not easily seen, cutting though - that's your pain literally on your body. Cutting - it goes against everything natural, your most basic instincts are to keep you safe, healthy and out of harms way - cutting is YOU being your own enemy, which is why you need professional help, not the \"wisdom\" of some random stranger. No healthy relationship can come out of cutting. You can't expect someone to come and save you, and you can't expect to save someone, which is exactly how Willow and Guy's relationship is. Willow stops cutting because of Guy, can you imagine when they break up? (no, the relationships of 16 year olds aren't forever) She's going to go back to cutting because her reason for stopping is no longer there. Other scenario: Willow gets ALL better, Guy gets tired of her because what he wants is not someone healthy, he wants someone to save, he leaves Willow (see scenario previously mentioned). If you're a hopeless romantic and want to roll your eyes at me that's fine - but that still doesn't make the relationship shown in this book any better. Self-harm goes way beyond cutting, that's the surface. it is a state of mind in which you constantly sabotage yourself because of anger, hurt, hate or whichever issues it is the person is going through. and Willow does not go through proper counseling. So, can love not help someone that self-harms? YES IT CAN. but it's not prince charming coming to save you, this I know from experience, I was already working through my recovery when I met someone, and I was inspired / motivated to work hard to get better for myself. . I didn't stop cutting for that person, I stopped cutting for me because I wanted to be in a good state of mind to be with my parter at the time. Which is why when it ended I didn't go off to slice my wrists. This book simply pisses me off so bad. Recovery isn't a cute boy telling you not to cut and then going on to a happily ever after. Recovery is hard work, it is a long process, slowly working through your problems and your triggers. Recovery is quite the uphill battle because you are your own enemy. Recovery is really fucking hard and painful. It is about respecting yourself - and finding that respect - enough to know that you are worth the efforts and the struggles to be healthy. Recovery is about re-lapsing, because you will re-lapse here and there, but it is about finding enough strength and courage inside you to forgive yourself and keep trying, keep working hard. I just find it to be deeply offensive to see a problem so severe as self-harm be dismissed as a minor flaw that will disappear as soon as you find a romantic interest. If you are going through any issue of the sort please get professional help. I know it's hard, and honestly the hardest step you will ever face is saying: I want to get better. That's the hardest part, and if you are looking for a book that can actually help you please please pleaaaaassseee read Cut by Patricia McCormick, it is only 160 pages long and it can really help. Also recomendable to anyone wanting to know more about the issues, it is the most realistic portray of a person that deals with cutting issue that I've ever read about. I highly recommend it. All that said, this book was just unbelievable. Would not recommend it to anyone and I only feel really disappointed in the author and the irresponsibility of putting a story like this out there, because the message can seriously impact a vulnerable mind into thinking that the only way out of self-harm is when someone finds you and saves you. fuck no. ****************************************************************************************************** (previous update) DNF at the moment. Unrealistic. I've been in the same situations as Willow, and it's not like that. Guy really wants to help her and he's watching out for her and yada yada. Truth is - and I don't want to sound harsh - but that doesn't happen. People try to stay away as far as possible from this. It's something that really throws you off balance, and they usually never know what to do or how to help you. That's why you need to seek professional help, not expect that some dude named Guy goes to your rescue. I will finish this book though, I'll let it sit on my shelf for a month or so though. Let the disappointment wash out a bit :( Personal recommendation for a good book about self harm: Cut . A great book. Realistic and flawless. ...more Holy freaking (insert swear word here)!! The Good: Be prepared for some serious fan-girl gushing! Also, this review in no way justifies how much I loved this book. For a debut author, Julia has blown all the other authors, regardless if it's their first or not, WAY out of the water! Once I started Willow, I could not put it down. It's like Green Eggs and Ham. I read Willow when I sat on a stool, I read Willow lounging by the pool, I read Willow here and there, I read Willow FREAKING EVERYWHERE. Sec Holy freaking (insert swear word here)!! The Good: Be prepared for some serious fan-girl gushing! Also, this review in no way justifies how much I loved this book. For a debut author, Julia has blown all the other authors, regardless if it's their first or not, WAY out of the water! Once I started Willow, I could not put it down. It's like Green Eggs and Ham. I read Willow when I sat on a stool, I read Willow lounging by the pool, I read Willow here and there, I read Willow FREAKING EVERYWHERE. Secondly, the cutting. Holy crap, I never expected it to be so haunting! As much as I am against cutting, I could see where Willow was coming from. It was a hard subject to write about, but Julia Hoban does it with such grace and elegance. She doesn't sugar-coat the issue, I think that was one of the reasons why Willow is so fresh in my mind. She gave us the truth and the way that she portrayed Willow's cutting, made me absolutely entranced in the story. Near the end, she tells about the first time she cut. And I swear, I gasped and got goosebumps. The way Willow grieved was real. Fortunately for me, I have never lost a parent but, Willow had such a sense of reality about her. Sometimes, you want to smack her in the head and shout, \"Why do you do this to yourself?!\" but that urge is quickly smothered because Willow is just so darn likable! The last sentence... wow. Yay for possibilities! The Bad: I really cannot think of anything wrong with this book! However, I do have a little complaint. I did not like Guy that much. I know I'll probably get shot for that, but he was just too perfect! It seemed that he no faults, whatsoever! Don't get me wrong, I ABSOLUTELY ADORE him! I just wished he had some faults like... he wore socks with his sandals or something. I think that would've made him more appealing and so much more human. Not to mention, Willow and him would be a slight more equal. I still love him, I just wish he wasn't so damn perfect! Another complaint of mine is the ending. It was a good one... after I read a couple times. It sort of made me go, \"Was that really it?\" the first time. Overall: Willow is a remarkable book that is moving and will leave an imprint on you for a long time. Honestly, Willow is one of the best books I've read all year. If you have not bought Willow, may the Gods of Literature guilt you into buying it! Grade: A ...more I think I have officially found the worst book I have ever read. This book was even worse than the dreadful Prescription for Romance . TARDIS should be grateful that I love her dearly and would never harm an expensive possession of mine, because if this had been a physical book, I would've been hurling it at the wall. Now that I've officially raised (lowered?) expectations, let's get on to the actual review, shall we? Willow is struggling to cope after the death of her parents in a horrible car acc I think I have officially found the worst book I have ever read. This book was even worse than the dreadful Prescription for Romance . TARDIS should be grateful that I love her dearly and would never harm an expensive possession of mine, because if this had been a physical book, I would've been hurling it at the wall. Now that I've officially raised (lowered?) expectations, let's get on to the actual review, shall we? Willow is struggling to cope after the death of her parents in a horrible car accident. To make things worse, she is the one who was driving the car--it was the worst rainstorm of the year, Willow only had a permit, and her parents were tipsy and asked her to drive. Now she is living with her older brother, contributing to the family finances in order to make ends meet... and secretly cutting to deal with the pain. Through her job at the local university library, Willow meets Guy, a boy her age who shares her and her late parents' interest in obscure anthropological texts. Though Willow can barely stand the thought of emotional connections these days, she and Guy begin to talk, but when Guy learns her secret, he becomes convinced that she needs saving. He makes every effort possible to draw Willow out of her depression and stop her self-harming, but in the end, it is Willow who will have to take the initiative to fix things. This book is a real wall-banger, with two of the most annoying characters I have ever encountered. Guy in particular is someone I would never, ever want to meet in real life based on the actions I will ennumerate below, and since this is at least partially meant to be a romance, I am more than a little certain the author would not want me to feel that way. First off, we've got Willow herself. She is at least characterized realistically, but that realism made her really annoying to read about in third person limited perspective. Willow does not cut anybody slack. She believes that her tragedy outweighs the mediocre problems in everyone else's lives, that it invalidates everyone else's right to feel. When a girl breaks some lab equipment and cries over it, Willow condemns her mentally, basically saying to herself, what right does this girl have to cry over something so minor? I could really understand that perspective, but geez, it made me lose a lot of sympathy for Willow regardless. Later on in the novel, Willow has a huge blowup with her brother, where she accuses him of not letting her take care of her young niece because he's afraid that she'll kill her like she did their parents. Her brother makes no effort to smooth things over at first, but his wife leaves Willow an extraordinarily kind and understanding note the next morning. Willow brushes it off with the thought that clearly if Cathy is being that nice, she just doesn't get it. Ugh. Willow was incredibly selfish and even if it was realistic, she was not a person I particularly cared about or wanted to spend time with. Then there's Guy. I'm pretty sure Guy is the worst hero I have ever encountered in YA or any other literature, and I'm counting Edward Cullen, for whom I have absolutely no warm feelings, in there. How does Guy offend me? Let me count the ways. * First, there's how he finds out that Willow cuts. They're sitting in a park and Guy invites her to get a cappuccino. Willow believes she can't be making a connection at this point, only seven months after her parents died, declines, and gets up. Guy proceeds to grab her wrist and then try to pull her back down and get her to stay with him. It's a pretense so that he can brush a scabbed-over cut, see the blood, and realize she's a cutter, but no. Just no. You do not grab a girl you've only just met, someone who clearly isn't interested in staying in your company, and beg her to stay with you. That was so creepy and awful. * Second, the incident that made me realize Guy is dumber than a sack of rocks. Willow has bought some boxes of razors on sale. When they fall from her bag in public, Guy claims she bought them for him to help her save face. Later on, they get into a fight, and he proceeds to throw the box of razors back at her. Even if the razors are safety-wrapped, what genius thinks that's okay? * Third, the wonderful homophobia and sexism Guy exhibits. He's just sensitive enough to love Shakespeare and the same obscure book that Willow loves, Tristes Tropiques , but just manly enough to call a coffee shop Willow brings him to a \"girly place\" and say that he wants to get out of there. When Willow says all the guys at her old school used to love it, he says something like, \"What kind of guys went to your school, anyway?\" Awesome. So the only guys that can like a coffee shop are not masculine enough to be considered men, and probably, by extension, gay, which is apparently a bad thing in your eyes? Seriously, Guy, I'm loving you. * Fourth, and most egregious, the absolute worst message I have ever seen in a young adult novel: a romance you're not ready for will clearly solve every problem you have! (view spoiler) [Willow kisses Guy and freaks out, realizing that she's not ready for a relationship. Guy gets mad at her for that, which is a pretty jerky thing to do, considering he knows how difficult and confused a time she's having. Willow kisses him a second time maybe a few days later and is magically ready for... some kind of relationship, I suppose. But then comes the real kicker. Willow goes back to her old house with Guy. She finally has her first emotional breakdown over the situation, after she realizes she'll never be anyone's daughter again. And then... wait! She's suddenly ready to have sex with a guy she's known barely a month! We get passages like this: \u201cBut you\u2019re so shy.\u201d Guy\u2019s voice is soft against her throat as he continues to slide her bra off her shoulders. \u201cAnd you\u2019re so vulnerable. Please tell me that you\u2019re sure.\u201d So basically, what Guy is saying here is, I don't think you're ready for sex at all, but hey, let me keep taking off your bra! So they're in the midst of foreplay and Willow asks if he has protection. He has a condom in his wallet, and Willow asks how long it's been there (thankfully). And here's his explanation. Ready? He put it in there very shortly after he met her, because he wanted to be ready for if she needed \"protecting\" in this way. So ~sexual healing~ is the answer to emotional issues? Really? No. This was the most disgustingly unromantic passage I have ever read. He barely knew her and yet decided to be perfectly prepared to have sex with her. Ew, ew, ew . (hide spoiler) ] After this, we do get resolution on the situation between Willow and her brother, something I actually cared about. (view spoiler) [The thing that really annoyed me is that, even though Willow's brother realizes she had sex, he doesn't seem in the least bothered by the fact that she's jumping into a relationship she doesn't seem to be emotionally ready for. Their relationship gets no real closure, which was, again, realistic, but not what I look for in a novel. (hide spoiler) ] And then the very end, where Guy is again proven to be the worst hero I've ever read about. (view spoiler) [He says that now that he's Willow's lover (seriously, have you ever heard a 16- or 17-year-old boy use that term? I'm 20 and I haven't), she has to pick between him or her razor blades. She throws her razor blades into the lake when he basically forces her to, and the end sentence is something about how it's a \"beautiful beginning.\" Um, no, I would consider this a terrifying beginning. She's entered into casual sex she isn't emotionally ready for with a guy who's a perfect mess of stupidity and an utter inability to handle her emotional issues in a mature way. Fantastic! (hide spoiler) ] As you can probably tell by now, I absolutely loathed this book, and feel it sends the worst possible message to teenagers. At the very least, it showed me that professional help is necessary in a situation such as this, because as noble as his intentions were, Guy handled the situation in the worst way, and the ultimate resolution reeked of unfortunate implications (sex solves your emotional problems!). Avoid at all costs. ...more I took my time in reviewing Willow . I wanted to be certain of my thoughts on it\u2019s content and the rating I gave to said content. Though the ending was satisfying, I can\u2019t deny that for the majority of the book, I was angered, not at Willow, but at the author. Nonetheless, I talked myself out of giving Willow the three stars I felt the author deserved because it felt wrong to punish great characters. But after much thought, I have decided that Willow does indeed deserve a three star rating. Willow I took my time in reviewing Willow . I wanted to be certain of my thoughts on it\u2019s content and the rating I gave to said content. Though the ending was satisfying, I can\u2019t deny that for the majority of the book, I was angered, not at Willow, but at the author. Nonetheless, I talked myself out of giving Willow the three stars I felt the author deserved because it felt wrong to punish great characters. But after much thought, I have decided that Willow does indeed deserve a three star rating. Willow is a senior in a brand new high school. She keeps to herself, avoiding any and all contact with her former friends. The one person she wishes to remain close to is her brother, but after rendering them both parentless in a fateful car accident, Willow can\u2019t bring herself to bridge the communication gap that seems to have befallen them. Willow is convinced that her brother blames her for their parent\u2019s death and that his superficial treatment of her is due to that contemptuous blame. Willow doesn\u2019t blame her brother for hating her. She hates herself. Worse, she envies her brother. Unlike her, he can unleash his grief, sobbing loudly to himself each night while he sits in their kitchen. Willow can\u2019t bring herself to cry. Its as though she has forgotten how. Willow finds her release in the form of a razor. When the sharp steel meets her flesh, Willow can find strength to continue on in her pointless existence, that is until Guy, an intelligent, sensitive fellow senior grants her a potential lease on life. There was some truly remarkable writing at work in Willow . Such vivid, honest description that I felt wretched for even considering giving it three stars. It somehow seems criminal to do so but\u2026The author of this book is doing a terrible disservice to anyone who truly suffers from this illness or one similar. ***spoiler alert*** While it is wonderful that Willow finally seemingly gives up her cutting, I can\u2019t help but think she never would have done so if it weren\u2019t for Guy. That\u2019s not how it should be. In fact, anyone struggling with an addiction or disease similar to the one that Willow faces within this book are advised by professionals not engage in romantic relationships until they have become self reliant in battling their disease. What would have happened to Willow had she not have had Guy? What will happen to Willow if their relationship were to fall apart? And how unfair is it to Guy to have the responsibility of Willow\u2019s mental health fall on his shoulders? Contrary to popular opinion, I did not find their romance appealing, or even healthy for either party. And I\u2019m sorry, it wasn\u2019t at all realistic. No teenage guy would form a romantic attachment to anyone with Willow\u2019s illness knowingly. The fact that she cuts is the first real thing Guy learns about Willow and yet he pursues her when, let\u2019s face it, most would flee, as they should to be frank. All in all, I can\u2019t help but feel that this author has done an extreme disservice to the issue of cutting as she did not address the healing aspect in a responsible light. Nor was the central relationship remotely realistic. ...more Everything changed on that rainy March night seven months ago. Willow's parents were tipsy and asked her to drive home, a decision that would cost them their lives. Ever since then, Willow has felt disconnected from the world. Her only reprieve is in mutilating her own body, one cut at a time. But everything changes when she meets Guy, the only one with whom she can possibly share her secret. I did not like Willow. Not the book, the character. She was a whiny little biotch. I understand that I p Everything changed on that rainy March night seven months ago. Willow's parents were tipsy and asked her to drive home, a decision that would cost them their lives. Ever since then, Willow has felt disconnected from the world. Her only reprieve is in mutilating her own body, one cut at a time. But everything changes when she meets Guy, the only one with whom she can possibly share her secret. I did not like Willow. Not the book, the character. She was a whiny little biotch. I understand that I probably should pity her, her being responsible for her parents deaths and all, but she makes it so damn hard. It's not the cutting that makes her so unlikable. Even though I am not a cutter myself, I understand the concept and have friends who indulge in it. It's just her view of the world. She expected the whole damn universe to revolve around her. She whined about people being inconsiderate around her and about how no one \"got her\". But Willow was always wrong about others. She judged them before they could judge her. I didn't understand her logic most of the time. And I hate how she would always go \"well, I killed my parents.\" You're not the only who has ever lost anyone, Willow. You are not the only person in the world who is grieving. I just wanted her to get over herself. Though admittedly, I did like her considerably more by the novel's end. Based on the character of Willow alone, this book would have gotten two stars. Thankfully, the intense writing and topic made me really like it. The writing flowed really well, and its interesting how this book was in third person instead of the expected first person. Of course, cutting is an always disturbing, intriguing topic, as much as you wish that it wasn't. And Guy might have been too perfect, but he was sweet and sensitive without being gay (glances at her copy of Shiver ). But I felt sorry for the poor guy (hehe, pun). He was stuck with Willow. And I also liked David and all the literary references. One more thing that didn't quite fly with me was the end. A spoiler is coming up, so AVERT YOUR EYES. Okay, so teenage sex. It happens a lot. A lot a lot. So why encourage it? \"Guy, we need to sleep together because I'm sad.\" \"Okay then.\" *they do it* \"Okay, I'm all better.\" \"Okay, then.\" Just a little bit of WTF. Overall, parts of this book and others parts I didn't like at all (aka Willow). But it is a good book, no doubt about that. It has a powerful, intense theme that I'm sure teenagers (especially cutters looking to relate) will eat up. ...more Which is worse? Drowning in your own misery or allowing yourself to be swallowed by numbness? If you read nothing else in this review, read this line: Willow is one of the best books I've read. EVER. In the span of a few hundred pages, Julia Hoban manages to address and explain one of the most pressing issues that plagues teenagers today: self-injury. She does so not by approaching the subject in an aloof, clinical manner, but by making it personal. If you've ever wondered what could possibly driv Which is worse? Drowning in your own misery or allowing yourself to be swallowed by numbness? If you read nothing else in this review, read this line: Willow is one of the best books I've read. EVER. In the span of a few hundred pages, Julia Hoban manages to address and explain one of the most pressing issues that plagues teenagers today: self-injury. She does so not by approaching the subject in an aloof, clinical manner, but by making it personal. If you've ever wondered what could possibly drive a person to self-mutilation, Willow does a wonderful job of showing the reasons behind the problem. You will never look at the phrase \"cutting\" in the same way again. I'm not going to lie: this book was difficult to read at times...not because it was poorly written or boring...but because it broke my heart. The issues that the main character, Willow, deals with are not simple ones. They're deep, complex, and don't have an easy, clear-cut solution. Willow was one of the most vivid, realistic characters to ever grace the pages of a young adult book. I felt her pain, her rare moments of happiness, and her despair at feeling the grief caused by her parents' deaths. If anything could ever show just how damaged some of these girls are, this book is it. Apart from being a wonderful book, I really think that Willow has the potential to help girls who suffered from problems similar to the ones addressed in this novel. Very few teenage girls with these kind of issues want to read a self-help book, go to a counselor, or talk to their parents. From the point of view of someone who's dealt with close friends and family members who've had similar problems, what they want most is for someone to truly understand them; and that is something that is extremely difficult for people who haven't gone through the experience themselves. The best part about Willow is that it has a redemptive quality about it: no matter how long the problem has gone on; no matter how you think it's never going to stop; there IS a way to control it, and to end the suffering that comes along with it. Read this book. That's all I can really say. In a Sentence Willow is a heartbreakingly beautiful story that will leave you thinking about it long after you've turned the last page. ...more After my last review, this is kind of going to be hard to swallow, but... this book is not as bad as I remembered. It'll never be my favourite, but, props to Julia Hoban for writing on such a touchy subject. Even if it was full of comma splices. It wasn't great, but... it's not abysmal either. Characters were decent, writing was fine, plot was fine... there's just a tiny something holding it back from striking this one out of the park for me. Maybe it's the suject, I don't know. It's not of the s After my last review, this is kind of going to be hard to swallow, but... this book is not as bad as I remembered. It'll never be my favourite, but, props to Julia Hoban for writing on such a touchy subject. Even if it was full of comma splices. It wasn't great, but... it's not abysmal either. Characters were decent, writing was fine, plot was fine... there's just a tiny something holding it back from striking this one out of the park for me. Maybe it's the suject, I don't know. It's not of the same quality as books I love, but... I'm not going to hate on it for that. ...more Scarred was one of those books I had such high expectations for and it still managed to exceed them all. From the first page I found myself completely immersed in the story and didn\u2019t want to stop reading until the end. Even 320 pages later I found myself disappointed that it had finished. I just loved everything about it and know it will be one of those books I read again and again. Usually I prefer first person narrative so I was surprised when I got half way through this novel and only just no Scarred was one of those books I had such high expectations for and it still managed to exceed them all. From the first page I found myself completely immersed in the story and didn\u2019t want to stop reading until the end. Even 320 pages later I found myself disappointed that it had finished. I just loved everything about it and know it will be one of those books I read again and again. Usually I prefer first person narrative so I was surprised when I got half way through this novel and only just noticed it was written in third person. I think this is because will still get the whole story from Willow\u2019s point of view and are privy to everything she is feeling. I loved how Julia Hoban created this character. Since the story is such a character driven piece it was essential that Willow felt real and this is where the book excels. I don\u2019t think I have a read a book with character that felt more real. She came across with all her complexities and flaws - it was just amazing. The other characters were equally brilliant. Her brother\u2019s grief was almost palpable and Guy was just such a lovable character who was so good and nice you could understand completely how he could be such a positive influence to Willow The story is essentially about Willow's grief over the death of her parents and the fact that she was driving the car that killed them. Blaming herself and believing no one should forgive her, including her brother, she finds an outlet for her emotions. Self harm. Reading those scenes was just brutal. I think that is the best word to describe how I felt. I applaud Hoban for dealing with a subject that is still such a taboo and hopefully managing to throw light on it. It definitely opened my eyes. There are some scenes that really stand out for me. A confrontation between Willow and her brother had me so overwhelmed I had to put the book down for a few minutes before I could read on - I was just so invested in the story and Willow\u2019s journey it felt as if her pain was mine. There were also some incredibly sweet moments between Willow and Guy and I just loved their relationship. Reading over what I have written it still feels as if I haven\u2019t done the book the justice it deserves. It made me smile, cry, wish will all my heart that things could be different for Willow, just so many different emotions. It\u2019s not just one of the best books I have read this year but one of the best I've ever read. Truly brilliant. ...more I get it. This book is about a tough subject. Willow feels guilty for 'killing' her parents in a car accident. She feels like she's a burden to her brother and to cope with everything, she cuts herself. She pushes everything and everyone around her away. I usually find it interesting to read about people with problems and how they deal with it, but Willow is just too much. Every single thing that happens in her life if linked to the fact that she thinks she's a killer. If people look at her it's I get it. This book is about a tough subject. Willow feels guilty for 'killing' her parents in a car accident. She feels like she's a burden to her brother and to cope with everything, she cuts herself. She pushes everything and everyone around her away. I usually find it interesting to read about people with problems and how they deal with it, but Willow is just too much. Every single thing that happens in her life if linked to the fact that she thinks she's a killer. If people look at her it's because she killed her parents. If they don't look at her, it's because they are ignoring her, because she killed her parents. If people are talking, then it's about how she killed her parents. If there are two people on the other side of the school yard talking to each other and both seem oblivious of her presence, then it's still about how she killed her parents. EVERYTHING automatically stems from the fact that she was behind the wheel when she and her parents got into an accident. Gimme a break, the center of the universe and all that? She's got an after-school job in the library because she needs to help her brother and his family out. She gives almost everything she earns to her brother and he always looks unhappy when he accepts her money. So, Willow, of course,assumes it's because she doesn't make enough money. Not because her brother doesn't want to take it, but has no choice because money is tight, which would have been the more logical route, no? If people put her in the spotlight, she doesn't like it, but when that spotlight is taken from her, she doesn't like it either. (On both occasions, it's because she killed her parents, of course) How on earth can you do good for this girl? I'm sorry, I get that this is hard, to lose your parents in such a horrible way, I even get that she needs an outlet, albeit a completely fucked up one. Yes she thinks the world hates her, but at the same time she apparently thinks it also revolves around her. The only reason I kept on reading was because of Guy, who is a great guy. But even he didn't keep me from skipping a few pages. ...more Tan malo que hasta Abzurdah fue m\u00e1s entretenido, as\u00ed que se pueden imaginar... Me siento culpable por haber odiado a una chica que perdi\u00f3 a sus padres pero no pude evitarlo, la odi\u00e9. No soporto a la gente que ridiculiza y minimiza los problemas de los dem\u00e1s, si, siempre hay gente que est\u00e1 peor que nosotros y lo correcto ser\u00eda valorar sin embargo cada persona tiene una vida distinta y no se puede juzgar, y Willow era ese tipo de persona; adem\u00e1s personajes como Laurie, Andy , Chloe, todos fueron re Tan malo que hasta Abzurdah fue m\u00e1s entretenido, as\u00ed que se pueden imaginar... Me siento culpable por haber odiado a una chica que perdi\u00f3 a sus padres pero no pude evitarlo, la odi\u00e9. No soporto a la gente que ridiculiza y minimiza los problemas de los dem\u00e1s, si, siempre hay gente que est\u00e1 peor que nosotros y lo correcto ser\u00eda valorar sin embargo cada persona tiene una vida distinta y no se puede juzgar, y Willow era ese tipo de persona; adem\u00e1s personajes como Laurie, Andy , Chloe, todos fueron relleno y me hubiera gustado que aparezcan m\u00e1s y no solamente Guy, porque una chica rota tambi\u00e9n puede tener el amor de la amistad, no solamente el rom\u00e1ntico. Lo \u00fanico que rescato es que Guy no haya sido el salvador en el primer momento y que haya costado que conf\u00ede en \u00e9l. Igualmente me pareci\u00f3 precipitado que la charla entre David y Willow haya sido 10 paginas antes del final y que no se haya enterado del problema de Willow, fue un mensaje err\u00f3neo. Un libro olvidable, que a una persona sensible como yo no le trasmiti\u00f3 nada y no solt\u00e9 ni una l\u00e1grima. ...more [...] she's breathing shallowly. she watches as the blood springs from the cut she's making, but it doesn't change anything. not this time. she swipes again, deeper. now she feels pain, but will it be enough? a few months ago, willow lost her parents in a terrible car accident. knowing that she was the one who drove the car makes it so much worse, because she has no one but herself to blame for the death of her father and mother. now, she has to live with her older brother david and his famil [...] she's breathing shallowly. she watches as the blood springs from the cut she's making, but it doesn't change anything. not this time. she swipes again, deeper. now she feels pain, but will it be enough? a few months ago, willow lost her parents in a terrible car accident. knowing that she was the one who drove the car makes it so much worse, because she has no one but herself to blame for the death of her father and mother. now, she has to live with her older brother david and his family in a tiny apartment. where before they had a lot to talk about, there is barely anything they tell each other nowadays. willow finds comfort in the angry welts she inflicts on herself through a sharp razorblade, but when she gets to meet guy things slowly begin to change ... more and more young people injure themselves, --participate in self-mutilation. having more books out there dealing with people who try to cope with a painful event certainly does help to grow awareness on what a serious problem it is and how widespread already. when guy saw the cuts, he thought she was suicidal, but no, she wasn\u2019t. cutters (at least as the book leads us to believe) usually aren\u2019t. sure, they seek relief, so as not to feel the overwhelming emotions and situations, but accidental deaths occur as often as not. the book was smoothly narrated. the book cover suits both the tone of the book, as well as the character's inner turmoil. how very fitting for our main protagonist to have the name \" willow \". if you consider the anatomy of a tree ... with its sturdy bark and all, it's supposed to protect the tree from the outside world, including enemies. the issues tackled were about dealing with death, self-mutilation, sibling-relationship and guilt but adding puberty to the mix, made it a more delicate/difficult stage of life for willow to go through. leaving aside the fact that i was slightly irritated about willow who seemed very intent on self-pity, calling herself a \u201ckiller\u201d all the time, i\u2019d say this is a book which is worth a read. helpful links cutting & self-injury (treatment) out of control teen behavior ...more Willow is a real, honest, and emotional book. From the moment you pick the book up, you are invested in Willow and her well-being. Not only is this story about grief and guilt, it is about love and never giving up. It's beautiful. The characters in Willow are real people with complex emotions and personalities. So many books are just full of stereotypes but Willow is full of character's so lifelike it's hard to believe they aren't actual people. I also really love the world that the author has cr Willow is a real, honest, and emotional book. From the moment you pick the book up, you are invested in Willow and her well-being. Not only is this story about grief and guilt, it is about love and never giving up. It's beautiful. The characters in Willow are real people with complex emotions and personalities. So many books are just full of stereotypes but Willow is full of character's so lifelike it's hard to believe they aren't actual people. I also really love the world that the author has created for these characters. I couldn't help wishing that I was one of the people hanging out in the library that Willow worked at or enjoying the park or a walk through the city. I wanted to be there in that world. My only initial concern about reading the book was that it would be sad for me to handle or that the cutting would scare me away. None of those things happened, I think having the deep emotional factor that it has only enhanced the reading experience and made it that much more meaningful. The author's skill is so great that for the first time in my life I feel like I understand the reason that people can do such horrible things to their own body. It's always shocked and saddened me but I had never fully understood it until I heard it through Willow's voice. I don't want to talk too much about the plot itself because I think this is one that's best discovered as you read, as you let it reveal itself to you. Reading Willow was definitely one of the most enjoyable reading experiences I've had in a long time. Every time I had to put the book down I daydreamed of picking it back up and re-joining Willow's world. ...more Hmmmm ... wasn't crazy about it. The plot was just \"eeeh\". Girl accidentally kills her parents, girl cuts herself, girl meets nice boy and realizes her life matters after all. How touching. Well, I think it did have potential. But Willow definitely wasn't as compelling of a character as she should have been. To me, she just seemed \u2026\u00a0whiney. Weeping Willow. Hahaha I laugh at my own bad pun. :) Wellll even so, the story dragged a lot. It felt boring at repetitive at times, and I think it would hav Hmmmm ... wasn't crazy about it. The plot was just \"eeeh\". Girl accidentally kills her parents, girl cuts herself, girl meets nice boy and realizes her life matters after all. How touching. Well, I think it did have potential. But Willow definitely wasn't as compelling of a character as she should have been. To me, she just seemed \u2026\u00a0whiney. Weeping Willow. Hahaha I laugh at my own bad pun. :) Wellll even so, the story dragged a lot. It felt boring at repetitive at times, and I think it would have been more powerful if it had been short and had some really strong characters. As it is, it was just okay for me. ...more This book really opened my eyes! It was emotional, but yet so powerful. The writing in this book flowed so nicely, and it was just beautifully written. I loved the relationship between Willow and Guy. I also liked how it took a while for their relationship to progress, instead of everything moving too quickly. This book is great, and I recommend it to everyone. Especially if you are a teenage girl! On a stormy night, Willow takes the wheel and her whole life is forever changed. Both her parents are killed in the accident and Willow has to move in with her older brother, his wife and their young daughter. She feels the weight of the world is on her shoulders - she's emotionally overwrought, heavily grieving and feels guilt towards her part in the accident. To top it off, she also feels that her brother secretly blames her for their parents\u2019 death and no longer loves her. She finds that the o On a stormy night, Willow takes the wheel and her whole life is forever changed. Both her parents are killed in the accident and Willow has to move in with her older brother, his wife and their young daughter. She feels the weight of the world is on her shoulders - she's emotionally overwrought, heavily grieving and feels guilt towards her part in the accident. To top it off, she also feels that her brother secretly blames her for their parents\u2019 death and no longer loves her. She finds that the only way to relieve herself when her emotions just become too much is to \"cut\" herself with a razor. But she is eventually found out by a classmate named Guy. Although Guy promises not to tell on her - he also can't just walk away from her. Instead he tries to get closer to her to find out what leads a person to hurt themself in such a way and to try to help her out of the dark place she's in. This is the first time that I read about \"cutting\" in such detail and although a bit on the descriptive side, it was not overdone or gory. On the other hand, Willow's pain is so real that you can actually understand why she would feel the urge to cut herself... even if you don't actually agree with it, you almost feel as if it is acceptable. It's as if her pain will consume her if she does not find an outlet to let it out. From the moment you start reading this book you become so emotionally attached to these characters (i.e. Willow; her brother, David; Guy) that you fly through the pages just to see what happens. If they can forgive each other? If they can forgive themselves? The book is written in the third person, and I really commend Ms. Hoban for having written it this way. It somewhat gives you a detached feeling but at the same time you feel as if you are looking at Willow and Guy from above. Catching a glimpse into a painful part of a young woman's life. This novel is not just about cutting - it is about love, hope and forgiveness. Although it touches on such a heavy subject, it is not overwhelming, instead it is told in a very unique and graceful voice. Willow is a beautiful story, compellingly told and is by far one of the best YA novels I've read in quite some time. It is a very powerful piece that I highly recommend to older teens as well as adults. ...more Willow has been through the tramatic experience of losing both her parents. Not only did she witness the horrible moment, she was the one behind the wheel. She blames herself. She moves in with her older brother and his wife and infant. She hates what her life has become. She hates her strained relationship with her brother, all the things left unsaid and especially his inability to even talk about their parents. She becomes a cutter to escape the pain. She would rather feel a physical moment of Willow has been through the tramatic experience of losing both her parents. Not only did she witness the horrible moment, she was the one behind the wheel. She blames herself. She moves in with her older brother and his wife and infant. She hates what her life has become. She hates her strained relationship with her brother, all the things left unsaid and especially his inability to even talk about their parents. She becomes a cutter to escape the pain. She would rather feel a physical moment of pain than to deal with feeling anything emotional. Willow's journey is not a feel-good-story. There is no real happy ending. Her reality is sad. She is sad. The whole book is depressing. Spoilers: I really did enjoy Guy's character. He brought out a good side of Willow. He was charming and caring. With all that being said, I hate that it sort of took a guy to pull Willow out, like he was the cure. Too many teenage (especially girls) base their existence on a boy and a lot of the time it is a huge mistake. You can't just depend on one person to pull you up and get you through things. Their life is not a guarantee. They are not required to see you through it. People are fickle and a lot of us bail out when things get too tough. My other \"problem\" was the whole cutting thing. I know there are so many people who have this issue, so I'm not trying to be insensitive. I really just don't get why anyone would scar and hurt themselves that way. It's so sad to me that even if you stop cutting, you will always have those scars. People will always judge you for them unfortunately. But, I suppose it is that way with anything. Everyone has their own coping mechanisms. Next up is the way the story was written. It was choppy? I don't know, it just didn't flow well at times for me and it didn't keep my attention. 3 (generous) stars I do not recommend this for anyone going through anything traumatic or for anyone who is depressed. It is a depressing little book Not a bad story, just not really one for me. ...more This one just didn't grab me. Ended up skimming most of it. You know it's bad when you can't work up much sympathy for a character who's just lost her parents. I just couldn't bring myself to like Willow, no matter how hard I tried. I totally understand that she was going through a lot and struggling but I still don't think it's an excuse to act like nobody else's problems are real. Willow seemed to think that just because she'd gone through something awful, NOBODY else's feelings were valid. No problem other than Willow's was worth crying about. That ju You know it's bad when you can't work up much sympathy for a character who's just lost her parents. I just couldn't bring myself to like Willow, no matter how hard I tried. I totally understand that she was going through a lot and struggling but I still don't think it's an excuse to act like nobody else's problems are real. Willow seemed to think that just because she'd gone through something awful, NOBODY else's feelings were valid. No problem other than Willow's was worth crying about. That just really annoyed me. Also couldn't stand Guy, the love interest. He was SO odd. Very melodramatic, as was Willow. Their relationship was incredibly unhealthy but Hoban portrays it as something to be desired. Maybe I'm just not one for 'damsel in distress' type stories. I think the story did have potential. It could have been an interesting story of a girl who gets the strength to carry on after a disaster with support from friends and family, instead of a story about how a girl can only recover with the 'help' of some random overbearing guy. I know I've torn the book apart here but it wasn't ALL bad. The writing is good, the story idea was good, it kept me interested until the end which is also good. There are certainly a lot of people who will like this- just not me. ...more I picked up this book for the \"Why Have I Not Read These Books' challenge. I have had this book since summer I want to say and it just sat there on my shelves. I enjoyed the book so I am glad that I finally decided to pick this one up and read it. This is a first time Author for me as well and I will be looking for more from her. In this story we have Willow who is the main character. At the age of 16 she was in a car accident that killed her parents. The worst thing about it is the fact that she I picked up this book for the \"Why Have I Not Read These Books' challenge. I have had this book since summer I want to say and it just sat there on my shelves. I enjoyed the book so I am glad that I finally decided to pick this one up and read it. This is a first time Author for me as well and I will be looking for more from her. In this story we have Willow who is the main character. At the age of 16 she was in a car accident that killed her parents. The worst thing about it is the fact that she was the one who was driving. Her parents had a bit too much to drink and they had Willow drive them home with only a learner's permit. Now at the age of 17 she has been dealing with the guilt and pain of killing her own parents and just trying to come to terms with all of it. She soon finds herself in trouble because to soothe the emotional pain, she becomes a cutter. Enter Guy, who soon discovers Willow's problem and he begins to open up Willow's eyes and her heart. I knew that the premise of this book would be somewhat depressing, dark, and sad, but I still wanted to read it. I like stories that touch on real life issues because usually the stories are more believable and realistic. This book does have some pretty serious triggers for those who have experienced these types of issues with cutting, so that should be considered before reading this. I took this book slowly and absorbed every detail of the story. I was confronted by all kinds of emotions and I took away from it many thoughts. The desperation of a person who needs to feel pain to be able to deal with emotional traumas is serious and this book brings that out and I think, gives the readers a better understanding as to why. And we as human beings must stop judging people who have issues such as this because we do NOT know what they may be going through or dealing with. The characters were very well developed and very believable. I had one issue with Willow and that was the fact that she tended to think the worst before truly knowing someone's thoughts, and at first I did not think that I would be able to connect with her or any of the others, but I found that the further I read the more I connected. With Willow, I found I was able to relate to the thoughts of being parentless and that feeling of abandonment. It does not matter the age, the feelings are the same, it is maturity that determines the actions that result. Being parentless means no more asking mom or dad for advice, it means no more being the child of someone, and even though these thoughts might not mean the same thing to someone who has not lost there parents, it is still a very real feeling. With David, it was the feelings of responsibility as he had to take on Willow who was only 17 and how this impacted his life. And to hear is explanations to Willow near the end of the story was heart wrenching. It gave the story a different meaning after that. Is gives the message that everyone feels things differently and we don't know what those feelings are and before we judge someone and their issues, we need to realize those things first. I recommend this book to anyone who likes realistic, emotional stories. It has both negative and positive elements and it is too heart wrenching to pass up. ...more Siento que he tardado a\u00f1os en leerlo, ha sido tedioso a m\u00e1s no poder. Fueron 5 d\u00edas los que dur\u00e9 ley\u00e9ndolo y, para m\u00ed, fueron d\u00edas de lectura desperdiciados. Bueno, al parecer hubo un accidente automovil\u00edstico en el que Willow iba manejando y sus padres murieron entonces ella qued\u00f3 al cuidado de su hermano mayor, David, pero siente que es una carga para \u00e9l y que todo lo que hace causa algo o simplemente lo hace mal, entonces ella se corta para sentirse mejor o para salir del torrente de cosas qu Siento que he tardado a\u00f1os en leerlo, ha sido tedioso a m\u00e1s no poder. Fueron 5 d\u00edas los que dur\u00e9 ley\u00e9ndolo y, para m\u00ed, fueron d\u00edas de lectura desperdiciados. Bueno, al parecer hubo un accidente automovil\u00edstico en el que Willow iba manejando y sus padres murieron entonces ella qued\u00f3 al cuidado de su hermano mayor, David, pero siente que es una carga para \u00e9l y que todo lo que hace causa algo o simplemente lo hace mal, entonces ella se corta para sentirse mejor o para salir del torrente de cosas que recuerda del accidente. Un d\u00eda conoce a Guy y \u00e9l se vuelve su confidente, le cuenta que ella se corta, y eso hace que comiencen a tener una relaci\u00f3n m\u00e1s estrecha, de cierta manera \u00e9l le ayuda a sobrellevar las cosas. Para empezar, tengo algo con el tema principal del libro, que es una chica que encuentra cierto desahogo o alivio cuando se corta, realmente nunca he entendido el por qu\u00e9 hacen eso y esa es la principal raz\u00f3n de lo poco atractivo que se me hizo el libro, m\u00e1s que nada porque nunca se deja de hablar de eso. O sea, entiendo que sea lo principal del libro pero es odioso que se mencione cada dos por tres. Para ser un libro un poco extenso (o as\u00ed yo lo sent\u00ed), hay mucha cosas de relleno y lo peor es que siempre era lo mismo. No le encuentro alg\u00fan punto completamente positivo al libro, lo m\u00e1s interesante del libro fue cuando ella discute con su hermano por inseguridades que ella tiene, y el final que... No fue un gran final, pero debido a toda la poca trama que hubo antes, puedo decir que eso fue como lo mejor que pudo pasar. A lo largo del libro se forma como una relaci\u00f3n del tipo amorosa entre Willow y Guy, que se desarroll\u00f3 muy r\u00e1pido. S\u00e9 que \u00e9l la apoy\u00f3 y siempre trat\u00f3 de estar ah\u00ed para ella pero dada la situaci\u00f3n en la que ella estaba: \"toda fr\u00e1gil emocionalmente\", debi\u00f3 de haber tardado m\u00e1s. Aparte hay una situaci\u00f3n casi al final: (view spoiler) [ Ellos tienen coito, pero antes de llegar a tenerlo, Willow le dice a Guy si tiene un cond\u00f3n, \u00e9l le dice que en su cartera, a lo que ella le pregunta desde cu\u00e1ndo. Realmente esa parte me parece un poco creepy porque despu\u00e9s de que \u00e9l vio lo buena persona que era a pesar de sus problemas supo que ella era diferente y decidi\u00f3 comprarlo. (hide spoiler) ] Si eso no es raro o fuera de lo normal, no s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 podr\u00eda serlo. Finalmente, no es un libro que recomiende, ni a mi peor enemigo se lo recomendar\u00eda, as\u00ed de fatal me pareci\u00f3. ...more Injuring yourself on purpose by making scratches or cuts on your body with a sharp object \u2014 enough to break the skin and make it bleed \u2014 is called cutting. Willow is a cutter. After her parent\u2019s dead, she starts cutting her arm. Every time it becomes too overwhelmed for her, she\u2019ll sneak out. Alone by herself, she pulls out one of her razors \u2014 she has many razors as her supplies \u2014 then she pulls up her sleeve, and cuts her arm. Sometimes it\u2019s her legs. Or her stomach. Places where people won\u2019t s Injuring yourself on purpose by making scratches or cuts on your body with a sharp object \u2014 enough to break the skin and make it bleed \u2014 is called cutting. Willow is a cutter. After her parent\u2019s dead, she starts cutting her arm. Every time it becomes too overwhelmed for her, she\u2019ll sneak out. Alone by herself, she pulls out one of her razors \u2014 she has many razors as her supplies \u2014 then she pulls up her sleeve, and cuts her arm. Sometimes it\u2019s her legs. Or her stomach. Places where people won\u2019t see. And it is amazing. It completely numbs Willow\u2019s other pain. This pain, this physical pain, was flowing through my veins like heroin, and I was numb, immune to the rest of it, I couldn\u2019t feel anything but the pain, and I knew that I had found a way to save myself. page 313 She taught herself, she has trained herself, not to feel anything except physical pain. She\u2019s completely in control of that. For seven months. If she let herself, she\u2019d drown in a world of pain. But she can\u2019t let that happen, she simply wouldn\u2019t be able to handle it, not that kind of pain. Thankfully she knows how to prevent such a thing. page 55 Things were simple before she met him. There was the accident, and there was the razor. Life revolved around both of them. Now things are far from simple. As she meets Guy, a senior in her new highschool who finally knows her secret. Guy can\u2019t let Willow keep injuring herself. And Willow won\u2019t let herself to feel anything but pain. Things are intense in their earlier talks, but as the time progresses, Willow starts enjoying Guy\u2019s company. They talk about books. They talk about Willow\u2019s parents. They even talk about the accident, memory when Willow crashed her parent\u2019s car and made them dead\u2026 Could Guy save her? Razor has been Willow\u2019s lover for the past seven months. Is she ready to part company with her constant companion? Would Willow throw her razors? Or would she become too addicted to pain? You won\u2019t know the answer until you reach the last page. ...more 4? 4.5? I don't know. I just know that this was beautiful and sad and dark and considering this is the second emotional book I've read, it might be wise to read something a bit lighter now. Odds are I won't. A hug for Willow for all that she's been through and all that she's going through and all that she's going to go through. For at least trying and for letting herself be helped despite how incredibly hard it is. For not just thinking of herself despite everything in her life. A hug for Guy for 4? 4.5? I don't know. I just know that this was beautiful and sad and dark and considering this is the second emotional book I've read, it might be wise to read something a bit lighter now. Odds are I won't. A hug for Willow for all that she's been through and all that she's going through and all that she's going to go through. For at least trying and for letting herself be helped despite how incredibly hard it is. For not just thinking of herself despite everything in her life. A hug for Guy for being amazing and sweet and strong. For being there and for sticking with her despite how hard it is for him too. For helping her move on with her life and getting her to look at things differently. A hug for this book, which has left a massive impression on me. I might need to buy myself a copy. Possibly. ...more this is another book that i really wanted to like, and expected to like, but ultimately just had too many problems with. willow randall was driving her parents home from dinner in a rainstorm when an accident occurred, killing her mom and dad. now she lives with her brother, his wife, and their baby daughter. she goes to a different school and works in the university library to help pay the household bills. she's sure that her brother hates her now; their once easy relationship is replaced by awk this is another book that i really wanted to like, and expected to like, but ultimately just had too many problems with. willow randall was driving her parents home from dinner in a rainstorm when an accident occurred, killing her mom and dad. now she lives with her brother, his wife, and their baby daughter. she goes to a different school and works in the university library to help pay the household bills. she's sure that her brother hates her now; their once easy relationship is replaced by awkwardness as david attempts to take on the role of a father. willow blames herself for the accident and relieves her emotional pain by cutting herself with razor blades. according to the book jacket, \"and then she meets guy, a boy as sensitive and complicated as she is. when guy discovers willow's secret, he pulls her out of the solitary world she's created for herself, and into a difficult, intense, and potentially life-changing relationship.\" i couldn't handle guy & willow's relationship. it's all about willow being this tender, vulnerable, delicate girl in pain, and guy feeling the need to protect and save her. after he finds out about her cutting, she begs him not to tell her brother, so guy takes on the responsibility for himself. he's going to heal this girl he barely knows. and ultimately he really does help her, which is great. her cutting slows, she learns to cry and grieve, she talks to her brother and they mourn their parents together. but i just felt so uncomfortable with the fact that it was this high school boy who saves her. he even refers to himself as a replacement for the razor blades: \"Willow.\" Guy bites his lip. \"I'm your lover now...that box of blades can't be your lover anymore, no matter how much they've been there for you in the past\" (p 326). errlack! i don't see this as a beautiful selfless sacrifice for guy to give willow. i find it creepy, especially in the context of a high school relationship. guy and willow have sex for the first time after willow has a breakdown, realizing she's not anyone's daughter anymore and that no one will care for her the way her parents did. again, we have guy trying to fill the empty space of PROTECTOR when willow, drying her tears, tells him she wants to do it. \"But you're so shy.\" Guy's breath is soft against her throat as he slides her bra off her shoulders. \"And you're so vulnerable\" (p 298). And then, explaining why he has a condom in his wallet, \"I've...had something in my wallet ever since I knew...Well, ever since I hoped that there would be a time when I would need to...protect you like this....We'd already talked in the stacks, and I knew you were different from any other girl I'd ever met. And then you told me that your parents were dead, and I thought that you were so...lost and vulnerable\" (p 299-300). errlack! i'd rather see willow empowered to stop on her own, or with the help of some great non-romantic friendships. it makes me shudder to think of teen girls reading this and hoping that a boyfriend will solve their problems and take away their pain. there's also this weird love affair that hoban has with her main character-- third person, present-tense narration, and willow's always talking about how complicated and difficult she is, and everything is all her fault, and she doesn't deserve anything good. but hoban's writing is clearly saying, no, willow is a poor tortured treasure of a saint. look at her tender and vulnerable pain! poor willow! poor dear beautiful willow! ugh. i did appreciate the realistic portrayal of cutting, but my overall impression was frustration. ...more Before I say anything else, let me say that this is a very intense novel. I\u2019ve never been a cutter but one of my friends at school dabbled in it for a while. I didn\u2019t understand her and I don\u2019t really understand Willow. I can\u2019t get my head around the concept of causing oneself physical pain to ease inner pain. That, however, doesn\u2019t mean that I didn\u2019t sympathise with Willow in this novel. If anything, my inability to understand her position only stimulated my desire to keep reading, hoping that Before I say anything else, let me say that this is a very intense novel. I\u2019ve never been a cutter but one of my friends at school dabbled in it for a while. I didn\u2019t understand her and I don\u2019t really understand Willow. I can\u2019t get my head around the concept of causing oneself physical pain to ease inner pain. That, however, doesn\u2019t mean that I didn\u2019t sympathise with Willow in this novel. If anything, my inability to understand her position only stimulated my desire to keep reading, hoping that the novel might help me understand her by the end. As a non-cutter, I can\u2019t say that Willow actually provided me with any greater understanding of why cutters do this to themselves. I can, however, say that after reading this novel I stand behind Guy\u2019s (her male friend that intervenes) decision to do everything in his power to help her, to show her that there are other ways she can release her pain. Guy is an interesting character. He hardly knows Willow yet it is very clear that he feels some kind of draw to her immediately. I often wondered if he hadn\u2019t fallen for her immediately, would he have been so interested in saving her? I would like to think that he would have, but how will we ever know? On that note, I\u2019d just like to say that this isn\u2019t a teen romance. Guy does not come in and sweep Willow off her feet and then suddenly she is cured of her cutting. Guy suffers greatly through his initial friendship with Willow and struggles with his conscious a lot through the novel. He\u2019s a strong character that simply tries really hard to show Willow that she doesn\u2019t actually want to hurt herself that way. Willow saves herself. Guy just shows her that she actually wants to. Julia Hoban will strike a chord with many teens and adult readers everywhere with this one. Whether or not cutting is something you understand, you\u2019ll be unable to stop reading. If for nothing else, you\u2019ll want to know whether Willow actually destroys herself. I\u2019m not going to tell you what happens because I think that would ruin the read for you, but I am going to tell you that this is one hell of an uncomfortable read. I hope that someone somewhere reads this and realises that whatever they\u2019re going through, it doesn\u2019t have to be a lonely one. There is help out there, even if you think you don\u2019t need it or you don\u2019t want it. Willow speaks for itself. I don\u2019t feel like I need to, or even that I should comment on its contents or outcomes. Read the novel and decide for yourself. ...more This is a tough book to read. And my rating, although low, DOES NOT reflect the quality of this book! Please, don't let it stop you from reading it. My rating is only how this book was to me. And I just had too many concerns about some things...and this topic is a very tough one and will effect each person differently. I hate when the main character is so troubled i want to simultaneously shake her and hug her. But more than that, I think - I'm on page 112 - I want to shake Guy. When? when will som This is a tough book to read. And my rating, although low, DOES NOT reflect the quality of this book! Please, don't let it stop you from reading it. My rating is only how this book was to me. And I just had too many concerns about some things...and this topic is a very tough one and will effect each person differently. I hate when the main character is so troubled i want to simultaneously shake her and hug her. But more than that, I think - I'm on page 112 - I want to shake Guy. When? when will someone figure out that keeping this secret is never good for anyone? ever. not ever. and I wish I could say that this book is so unrealistic - because someone (especially a boy) would never do this for a young girl. But that would be a lie. Because...they DO! And they would. Knight in shining armor, he would! A nice Guy like...Guy, who is considerate and honors his word and isn't really sure what to do...and thinks he might be able to keep her safe and help her....well, he would too. he absolutely would. And that...well, that breaks. my. heart. But I worry. I worry that Guy is replacement of one addiction to another. I worry that girls who read this book will believe that keeping their secret and finding a man will help them through any scary painful dangerous situation like this. and, I wish this book finished with information about how to find help if you or someone you know is cutting or struggling with destructive behavior. ...more Willow doesn't like to cry over her parents' death. Instead, she elects to numb her pain with the stinging sensation of a razor. Willow handles the feeling of loneliness and the anguish of residing with her busy brother by desperately drowning herself in cutting. Eventually she meets Guy - a sensitive and sensible student at her school. They form a close bond and Willow reveals her darkest secret to him - afterward, Guy is determined to do whatever it takes to stop Willow's self-mutilation. Willo Willow doesn't like to cry over her parents' death. Instead, she elects to numb her pain with the stinging sensation of a razor. Willow handles the feeling of loneliness and the anguish of residing with her busy brother by desperately drowning herself in cutting. Eventually she meets Guy - a sensitive and sensible student at her school. They form a close bond and Willow reveals her darkest secret to him - afterward, Guy is determined to do whatever it takes to stop Willow's self-mutilation. Willow is centralized around a touchy subject, one that I can relate to myself. Cutting is a painful, yet practical thing for someone who is trying to escape their reality or sad situation. Every time Willow cut I wanted to scream, and sometimes I had to shut the book for a few seconds. I adored the awkward romance between Willow and Guy - the unsureness of the pair made it seem more realistic. Willow was not the most likable protagonist (understandably) and Guy was a bit too perfect, but together they shined. There were slight inconsistencies here and there (why wasn't Willow in counseling or outpatient therapy?), but they didn't drag down the story too much. While not absolutely perfect in plot or characters, Willow is a powerful novel that sets the standard high for others in its subject area. ...more I\u2019m going to say this outright: I loved this book! It was kind of slow in the beginning, but it picked up fast. This book was fascinating, so intense and sad. It is a great eye opener! Willow blamed herself for her parents\u2019 death because she was the one who was driving the car that got her parents killed. I felt bad for Willow because she started to cut herself to make her feel better, whenever she\u2019s sad, instead of talking to her brother or anyone, she cut herself. When Guy found out she was a c I\u2019m going to say this outright: I loved this book! It was kind of slow in the beginning, but it picked up fast. This book was fascinating, so intense and sad. It is a great eye opener! Willow blamed herself for her parents\u2019 death because she was the one who was driving the car that got her parents killed. I felt bad for Willow because she started to cut herself to make her feel better, whenever she\u2019s sad, instead of talking to her brother or anyone, she cut herself. When Guy found out she was a cutter, he was shocked at first but then he decided to help her. In addition, Guy was there when Willow needed him, and wouldn't give up on her. Willow gave me a reality check in the sense that this isn't a perfect world, nobody is perfect, and there are many people who resort to hurting themselves to cope with pain and suffering. Willow\u2019s relationship with both Guy, and especially her brother, are perfectly captured and make the book extremely emotional read. I really loved this book and the romance that was woven into Willows life when she really needed someone to talk to and someone who would listen to her without judgment. I loved the characters: Willow, Guy, and Willow\u2019s brother. Julia Hoban description is beautiful; it helped me understand the pain Willow was going through. Overall, I loved this book. I recommend this book for everyone age 15 or over. ...more", "Title": "Willow"},
