{"Comments": "Preston looks at the very tallest trees on our planet and the people who seek them out, climb them and study them. This was a very engaging trip into a very unfamiliar territory. One amazing thing was that knowledge of the whereabouts of earth\u2019s wooden giants is held by a very few individuals. The people on whom Preston reports range from Phd biologists to obsessives with no particular scientific background. He looks closely at tree-climbing methodologies (<---B>being a tree-climber himself</---B>) at the te Preston looks at the very tallest trees on our planet and the people who seek them out, climb them and study them. This was a very engaging trip into a very unfamiliar territory. One amazing thing was that knowledge of the whereabouts of earth\u2019s wooden giants is held by a very few individuals. The people on whom Preston reports range from Phd biologists to obsessives with no particular scientific background. He looks closely at tree-climbing methodologies (being a tree-climber himself) at the technologies extant that support such endeavors. I learned things here, and got a far greater sense of what is lost when land is clear cut.<---F> Well worthwhile, educational and engaging</---F>. ============================== EXTRA STUFF I first saw the article here,<---M> Lofty Aspirations </---M>, in Smithsonian Magazine back in 2002. But when I searched for it on that site, it was a nogo. Thankfully it still lives on the author's site. ...more The idea that there is an entire unexplored world lurking in the canopy of what's left of our nation's redwood forests is intriguing. It seems unfathomable that in our modern life, with all our GPS systems and Google maps, there are still areas of planet Earth just waiting to be explored. The Wild Trees is at its best when describing this hidden world. Sadly, that's not what the book is about. This is really a story about the people involved in the exploration of that world, with a few interestin The idea that there is an entire unexplored world lurking in the canopy of what's left of our nation's redwood forests is intriguing. It seems unfathomable that in our modern life, with all our GPS systems and Google maps, there are still areas of planet Earth just waiting to be explored. The Wild Trees is at its best when describing this hidden world. Sadly, that's not what the book is about. This is really a story about the people involved in the exploration of that world, with a few interesting details about the trees themselves scattered throughout. Although it's unfortunate that most of that description is wasted on the rather uninteresting question of precisely how tall each tree is. I'm sure that's an important question for the purposes of scientific research, but on the other hand, why should I really care if one tree is four feet taller than another tree? I'll be honest, I heard about this book for the first time when the author made an appearance on The Colbert Report , and it sounded interesting ... until I heard the subtitle. \"A Story of Passion and Daring\"? Really? Preston finds these people fascinating, which is not terribly surprising since they're his friends and peers, but I found them tedious and obnoxious. Preston's frequent detours into narrating events and dialog are completely embarrassing, and I found his habit of using what a friend called \"purple prose\" highly irritating. The book does not benefit from Preston's description of a guy urinating. And for a book describing a secret world that most people will never have the chance to see to not have any photographs is just a travesty. There's a fascinating book waiting to be written about tall trees. There may even be a fascinating book waiting to be written about the people researching them. This book is neither. ...more The sections about the redwoods in this book were 5 star for me--but then, trees have always fascinated me, and Preston brings his intense focus on detail to these giants. However, the sections on the PEOPLE in this book moved it down to a 2 star for me, since FAR too much time was spent on the soap opera details of their lives rather than on the trees themselves. And their lives seemed self-centered and crass. Stephen Sillett is the first holder of the endowed Chair in Redwood Forest Ecology at The sections about the redwoods in this book were 5 star for me--but then, trees have always fascinated me, and Preston brings his intense focus on detail to these giants. However, the sections on the PEOPLE in this book moved it down to a 2 star for me, since FAR too much time was spent on the soap opera details of their lives rather than on the trees themselves. And their lives seemed self-centered and crass. Stephen Sillett is the first holder of the endowed Chair in Redwood Forest Ecology at Humboldt State University (the only university Chair dedicated to one tree species). Michael Taylor was his co-founder of many of the tallest trees. However, their personal stories (like many of our own, I'm sure) seemed petty and tiny compared to the gigantic wonders they study. Even Preston himself comes across as a tagalong when he gets into the climbing himself. Since I'm a LORD OF THE RINGS fan,I was touched by the references to these works. ILUVATAR, in Tolkien, is the major god in the SILMARILLION, so giving that name to the third tallest tree in the Atlas Grove showed how MUCH Sillett cares--not just about the redwoods but about the world of imagination. Preston should have stuck to the TREES--because, in this book, they are FAR superior beings to the people who study them. ...more The book was good enough to get me to explore deeper into the dense Jedediah Smith Redwoods and find the Titans myself. Read the book early January, and found the Grove of Titans and Lost Monarch on January 15, 2008. See > M.D. Vaden's hunt for The Wild Trees Redwoods Unlike the book, I supplied one color photo of a titan. That's one desire for that book, which was lacking. If even but one nice color photograph. There was more in the book than I expected about people, but after I read it, it was The book was good enough to get me to explore deeper into the dense Jedediah Smith Redwoods and find the Titans myself. Read the book early January, and found the Grove of Titans and Lost Monarch on January 15, 2008. See > M.D. Vaden's hunt for The Wild Trees Redwoods Unlike the book, I supplied one color photo of a titan. That's one desire for that book, which was lacking. If even but one nice color photograph. There was more in the book than I expected about people, but after I read it, it was understandable that more about the trees was not practical. It's not a story about trees. Someone wrote earlier that some parts had a cut and paste feel, and I felt some transitions were so abrupt, that it did feel that way sometimes. For the fact that the book was interesting enough to hold for hours at a time, and for the large amount of research included, I gave it 5 stars. For other reasons, I could give it 3 or 4 stars. But the presentation and facts and history included merit making up for deficiencies. I've taught tree care, and the stuff in The Wild Trees directly related to trees and forests could fill one or two class sessions. Some reviews I've read, stated that the book needed more about trees and forests. I'd suggest to go back, reread, and write down every fact and bit of history, and realize just how many aspects were woven into the entire book. My mother is from the area mentioned in The Wild Trees where Marie Antoine grew up. The description is right-on-the-money. As a profession, I work with trees, and nothing caught my eye in the botany category as factually distorted. So the book gets the facts right, best I can tell. For the more part, I found details about the people interesting. Others might find it mundane. But I appreciated to see how others too, have progressed through life from stage to stage. Someone criticized details like eating Fruit Loops being mentioned or urinating - what else do they want, a sentence that says the character was \"standing there\"? Like that would be better? Besides, even the critics must admit they remember the part about urinating or \"Fruit Loops\" !! Because they wrote about it. Had something like \"standing\" been written instead, they may not have remembered. That's an interesting aspect of the book that deserves a second read - look at all those unique comments and descriptions that were used, and consider how well they cause readers to remember those parts. ...more This isn't a book for everyone, but I really enjoyed it and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a fast paced(although somewhat tedious at times) book. It is a window into the lives of those whose passion is climbing trees, and not just any trees - the tallest trees in the world, the coastal Redwoods of northern CA. The cover caught my eye and then as I read the jacket, I knew I had to read it, as the setting is near where I grew up. The book is the story - over about a twenty year period - o This isn't a book for everyone, but I really enjoyed it and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a fast paced(although somewhat tedious at times) book. It is a window into the lives of those whose passion is climbing trees, and not just any trees - the tallest trees in the world, the coastal Redwoods of northern CA. The cover caught my eye and then as I read the jacket, I knew I had to read it, as the setting is near where I grew up. The book is the story - over about a twenty year period - of a number of individuals who are passionate about finding, climbing and scientificially documenting the tops of these majestic giants. Climbing trees was a passion of mine as a kid and while these\"explorers\" were grown men and women, there were so many times when I paused and had flashbacks to my own childhood - climbing through the treetops - building forts and treehouses and stringing ropes between trees. I've always loved trees. I just counted and I have about half a dozen paintings of trees in my house, including one I climbed all the time as a kid - the largest madrone tree in the world, until it came down in a storm in 2001. It was also exciting to peer into the passions of others. It reminded me of the \"Orchid Thief\" - this is a story about individuals who are so passionate about trees that their lives take second place. The passion is so strong that it becomes their life, their career, their reason for living. This passion leads to death, divorce and heartache, but also life-long and deep relationships, marriage and incredible adventure. I will definitely remember this story for a long time and the next time I'm visiting the family farm in the backwoods of Humboldt County, I may even climb a tree. ...more I am of two minds about this book. When Preston is giving us the impressions of actually climbing into these gigantic trees, I am transported to a world where new species abound high above earth in ecosystems \"similar to the ocean's coral reefs.\" When he is lecturing us or creating the tension of personal relationships, I find myself more conscious of his prose --- his lack of fluidity and attempts at a compelling style. The \"story of passion and daring,\" promised in the title, comes through but I am of two minds about this book. When Preston is giving us the impressions of actually climbing into these gigantic trees, I am transported to a world where new species abound high above earth in ecosystems \"similar to the ocean's coral reefs.\" When he is lecturing us or creating the tension of personal relationships, I find myself more conscious of his prose --- his lack of fluidity and attempts at a compelling style. The \"story of passion and daring,\" promised in the title, comes through but is mitigated by the latter. ...more This was the most fascinating read I've had in a long time. I loved learning about the old-growth forests of the northwest (which I previously knew nothing about). I loved learning about the science behind forest ecology (which I knew nothing about). I felt inspired by the people who developed ways to climb these giant trees and figured out that there's a whole world up there to explore. In short, I felt like I really learned a lot and enjoyed it too! This book would have been near-perfect if it had cut off the last few chapters... I thought the author went off on a tangent writing about himself and his own tree-climbing. The first 3/4 of the book were amazingly educational, and I relished reading through the chapters. Two hundred and fifty feet up, the light became brighter, although I still couldn't see the sky, and the crown of Adventure billowed into a riot of living branches. By then, the ground had disappeared completely, hidden below decks of foliage in the lower parts of the canopy. This was the deep canopy -- a world between the ground and the sky, an intermediary realm, neither fully solid nor purely air, an ever-changing scaffold joining heaven and earth, ruled by the forces of gravity, wind, fire, Two hundred and fifty feet up, the light became brighter, although I still couldn't see the sky, and the crown of Adventure billowed into a riot of living branches. By then, the ground had disappeared completely, hidden below decks of foliage in the lower parts of the canopy. This was the deep canopy -- a world between the ground and the sky, an intermediary realm, neither fully solid nor purely air, an ever-changing scaffold joining heaven and earth, ruled by the forces of gravity, wind, fire, and time. It's incredible to think that for as long as the redwoods have been there, so much of them remains unexplored. Preston describes the discovery of some of the largest redwoods and profiles the scientists (and enthusiasts) who developed the methods for safely and carefully exploring their upper tiers. There is a healthy dose of biology in the book (lichen diversity = so cool), but it is mainly about the people and how their obsession with trees impacted their lives and pushed forward canopy science. There's also adrenaline to be had because tall tree climbing is dangerous, but in different ways than mountain-climbing. Mistakes on a mountain may take time to catch up with a person. Mistakes in a tree = you're done. I enjoyed the writing, too. Preston does well in describing both the action and the science, which shouldn't have surprised me given how gripping I remember The Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story being, back in the day. I haven't read that one since it came out, but I'm tempted now to pluck it off the shelf and see how it holds up. And finally, a nugget of trivia I did not know. Preston dedicated the book to his brother, Douglas Preston . I had no idea they were brothers! ...more I listened to this book on Audible, and I wonder if I'd have liked it more if I'd read it instead. Most of the book was pretty engaging; I felt Preston introduced us to the various players in a way that made me care about them and root for their success. However, toward the last few chapters I began to feel that the author seemed to be laboring unnecessarily on the specifics of the ropework and climbing. As I've never seen -- much less used -- a so-called 'spider' setup or whatever it is, about I listened to this book on Audible, and I wonder if I'd have liked it more if I'd read it instead. Most of the book was pretty engaging; I felt Preston introduced us to the various players in a way that made me care about them and root for their success. However, toward the last few chapters I began to feel that the author seemed to be laboring unnecessarily on the specifics of the ropework and climbing. As I've never seen -- much less used -- a so-called 'spider' setup or whatever it is, about 70% of the last three chapters were more or less lost on me. I get that they were in this tree, and then swung to that one and at various points were probably in danger, but the elaborate descriptions of how this was done lost me. I needed a diagram to understand any of what was happening. That said, I did enjoy it, and I think arborists and people who enjoy extreme climbing would appreciate that last part far better than I did. I did, of course, love hearing about the coastal redwoods and the incredible biodiversity they foster. ...more Think the trees you see on the tours of Redwood National Forest are the granddaddies of them all? Guess again. A really interesting look at the group of tree-groupies (arborists, naturalists, botanists, and so on) who dedicate themselves to identifying, documenting and preserving the Giant Redwoods and other behemoth trees. The story gets a bit hokey when Preston starts recounting the personal lives and relationships of and between his characters. It seems like quite a detour, is unnecessary and Think the trees you see on the tours of Redwood National Forest are the granddaddies of them all? Guess again. A really interesting look at the group of tree-groupies (arborists, naturalists, botanists, and so on) who dedicate themselves to identifying, documenting and preserving the Giant Redwoods and other behemoth trees. The story gets a bit hokey when Preston starts recounting the personal lives and relationships of and between his characters. It seems like quite a detour, is unnecessary and downright distracting. But the descriptions of the various trees and the reverence for them made me overlook this slight foible. The trees truly become characters and take on lives of their own. You can envision them in some alluvial fan somewhere, born before Christ, witnesses to history. I'd love to see them and drink them in, but I guess it's better that the tree-groupies keep them safe from prying eyes, tour buses and lumber companies. ...more A page turner. This non-fiction book reads like a novel. I couldn't wait to go to bed every night to see what had happened while I was away. I've since read <---A>Richard</---A> Preston's The Hot Zone and am currently reading The Cobra Event. He loves orinary people who do extraordinary things. There's an excerpt from The Wild Trees in the latest issue of Orion, along with one of my poems, and I'm so pleased and honored to be anywhere near this guy. http://www.richardpreston.net/index.html If I could give this book 0 stars, I would. Fascinating topic, interesting people, terrible, disjointed writing. At first I thought this book was slightly better than a textbook on redwoods. Now I think I would have preferred a textbook. i. like. to. climb. trees. always have. i had the mos' bitchin' treehouse EVER. me n' my bud chip. built it ourselves. way up. way way up. we were 9 and 10. swiis family robinson stylee. for real. This book is a love story. It's a story about a small circle of people (mostly men) who love the world's tallest trees; and it's a story about how - in finding the trees - they find one another. A \"wild tree\" is a tree that has never been climbed by anyone else, and these folks existence is justified by finding such wild trees. But these are folks obsessed with finding, and then climbing, the tallest living things - the Coastal Redwoods. Most of these giants are located in highly inaccessible pla This book is a love story. It's a story about a small circle of people (mostly men) who love the world's tallest trees; and it's a story about how - in finding the trees - they find one another. A \"wild tree\" is a tree that has never been climbed by anyone else, and these folks existence is justified by finding such wild trees. But these are folks obsessed with finding, and then climbing, the tallest living things - the Coastal Redwoods. Most of these giants are located in highly inaccessible places - sadly, one of the main reasons why they haven't been logged already - and the (mostly) men who look for them, , find them, climb them, and map them (!) are unlike most of us. They spend most of their free time alone, in harsh, isolated, and unforgiving spaces. Preston, like author John McPhee, tells us the personal stories of these people in order to heighten our appreciation of the the trees with which their lives are intertwined. These people are pioneers in the development of methods of climbing trees that do no damage to the trees, as well as methods of mapping their canopies. Most of us who remain on the ground view these trees as massive trunks with lower branches that can be seen sprouting from the main trunks of the trees at the height of a twelve-story building, or higher. So it comes as a revelation to discover how verdant and thick the canopies of the Coastal Redwoods actually are. We are told that the canopy of one tall tree was so thick that people wearing snowshoes could literally walk around on top of it, throwing Frisbees. We learn that these canopies are diverse ecosystems of their own - with berry bushes, ferns, and even other trees rooted in soil (often TONS of soil) that form and accumulate in the spacious crotches of \"branches\" (often with a diameter larger than the trunks of most eastern hardwoods) hundreds of feet above the ground. Like the new worlds that were discovered when Jacques Cousteau developed the suits that enabled exploration of the sea, the tools and methods developed by the climbers of these tall trees allowed them to discover a world which had up until then remained completely unknown and uncharted. If you are interested in learning about this world and those who have taken the time to discover it for us, read this book. If you love the mystery of trees, read this book. If you want a new perspective of the beauty and mystery of the diversity of life, read this book. Read this book! ...more I love being introduced to real worlds that I never knew (or thought about) existed. The canopies of the highest trees on earth is one of the truly unexplored frontiers. Because of the originality of the subject and the fact that it introduces you to this world, it deserves three stars. However, this isn't really the story of trees, though you do learn a lot about them. Instead it is the story of people who climb these trees. The problem is, these people really aren't that interesting. The autho I love being introduced to real worlds that I never knew (or thought about) existed. The canopies of the highest trees on earth is one of the truly unexplored frontiers. Because of the originality of the subject and the fact that it introduces you to this world, it deserves three stars. However, this isn't really the story of trees, though you do learn a lot about them. Instead it is the story of people who climb these trees. The problem is, these people really aren't that interesting. The author added tension and suspense where he could and tried to delve into these characters. This would make a fantastic setting for a work of fiction. My main criticism of the book, however, has to do with ethics. I love scuba diving and have confronted a similar issue. The very act of humans exploring and touching the forest canopy (much like coral reefs) inherently means that damage occurs. The author deliberately does not reveal the location of certain redwoods to avoid \"recreational\" treeclimbers discovering and damaging the trees. The problem is that at times each of the botanists, scientists, etc..., including himself, climb trees \"recreationally.\" He brings up the ethical issue of climbing, but never pursues it. Taking his teenagers on a trip to Scotland to climb the oldest and tallest grove in the country seems to present no ethical dilemma. Similarly, one of the main characters in the book, a botanist, does not seem to have any qualms about climbing the tallest and oldest trees in Australia recreationally. It seems that if you love and study trees you are inherently immune to the ethical dilemma of wanting to explore that which you want to protect from others. I don't think these people shouldn't be climbing the trees, just that the author should have talked about this tension. ...more Richard Preston is a science writer with a gift for turning complex biology into riveting page-turners. In The Wild Trees, he describes old-growth forests, mostly redwoods, that have managed to evade the timber industry's blades and still live along the coast of northern California. Preston assures us that, amazingly, until the past two decades the ecosystem formed by the intertwining limbs of these ancient, gargantuan living things had never really been studied. Preston introduces us to several Richard Preston is a science writer with a gift for turning complex biology into riveting page-turners. In The Wild Trees, he describes old-growth forests, mostly redwoods, that have managed to evade the timber industry's blades and still live along the coast of northern California. Preston assures us that, amazingly, until the past two decades the ecosystem formed by the intertwining limbs of these ancient, gargantuan living things had never really been studied. Preston introduces us to several researchers, most prominently botanist Stephen C. Sillett, who are probing the mysteries of the skyscraper-high forest canopy. In addition to Sillett, there's Michael Taylor, a millionaire's son and speed-chess champion who is afraid of heights but downsizes his life to work as a grocery clerk while he searches for the world's tallest tree, and Marie Antoine, who became a scholar of lichens. Eventually, Preston, who took up tree-climbing as a respite from writing, joins them up in the treetops. My husband read this book years ago and told me many of the incredible incidents. We always planned on visiting the Calif. Redwoods and finally did it. Of course we had to listen to the Wild Trees on CD while driving up Hwy. 1 and going through the towns and groves of trees where you will find the tallest of the tall trees. It was neck-aching to look up at these trees as Michael Taylor must have done to estimate the height of the trees and incredible to know that professionals climbed to the tip top of these trees to measure them precisely and study the diversity in the canopy. I could imagine them swaying in their beds as the breeze came up and could not imagine how one researcher fell and lived to climb them again. I love it when a non-fiction book reads like a fiction thriller. A must read. ...more 3.5 stars. <+++>The Wild Trees: A Story of Passion and Daring</+++> is a narrative nonfiction account of researchers who climb to the tops of the largest living organisms on the planet, the giant redwoods. Or perhaps it's the tale of people so obsessed with climbing these trees that they became researchers; I'm not quite certain which it is. Richard Preston starts with an electric account of a first climb up one of these giant trees, replete with white-knuckled fear, a foolhardy leap of faith, and an encou 3.5 stars. <+++>The Wild Trees: A Story of Passion and Daring</+++> is a narrative nonfiction account of researchers who climb to the tops of the largest living organisms on the planet, the giant redwoods. Or perhaps it's the tale of people so obsessed with climbing these trees that they became researchers; I'm not quite certain which it is. Richard Preston starts with an electric account of a first climb up one of these giant trees, replete with white-knuckled fear, a foolhardy leap of faith, and an encounter with hornets. Had the whole book kept pace with that searing opening, this would have been a fantastic read. As it was, the book soon went off on the tawdry doings of its cast, who were largely so blinded by their obsession with trees that everything else was discarded in their lives. Their exploits, successes, and failures at climbing would have been much better than the neglects of their social lives. I also would have enjoyed this book much more had it focused on the trees, especially what they found in them and what it felt like to climb up one. Too much of the text was taken up with the quest for the tallest redwood, seemingly replacing knowledge and science with a world record quest. Some pictures would have been a valuable addition as well! I certainly enjoyed and learned from The Wild Trees , but it could have been so much more. ...more This book. I adore this book. Mostly because I adore talking about, learning about, geeking out about trees. Any trees. But especially redwood trees. And this book is fantastic in its breadth and scope and coverage of the history of studying the redwoods, and all the stops and starts and madness therein. Did I know there was an entire subset of people who spend (and have spent) their days climbing redwoods, and Doug Firs, and countless other species of trees? Not really. I really had no idea the This book. I adore this book. Mostly because I adore talking about, learning about, geeking out about trees. Any trees. But especially redwood trees. And this book is fantastic in its breadth and scope and coverage of the history of studying the redwoods, and all the stops and starts and madness therein. Did I know there was an entire subset of people who spend (and have spent) their days climbing redwoods, and Doug Firs, and countless other species of trees? Not really. I really had no idea the history of studying the redwoods, but I love it. This is the very thing, the very book, I would have loved to talk about with my grandfather and my dad. I really had no idea the sort of biodiversity lying in wait in the canopies of redwoods, though it's easily one of the most thrilling images of a reality I've ever conjured: finding ripe huckleberry bushes 200-feet above the forest floor. That I read this days after finishing Rare Bird (which is a fantastic companion piece to this book) is the best sort of literary luck. [Four-point-five stars for so many interwoven stories that'll stick to my bones for so many years to come.] ...more I'll admit, I had my reservations when deciding on this -- a book about trees. Much to my delighted surprise, my fears were laid to rest as the vivid, delicate writing of Richard Preston weaved a compelling story, for why trees should be much heralded. The book follows a series of amateur and professional arborists/botanists on their journey of discovering the world's largest trees. Along the way, many of the stories become intertwined as the protagonists meet one another and cross paths, sharing I'll admit, I had my reservations when deciding on this -- a book about trees. Much to my delighted surprise, my fears were laid to rest as the vivid, delicate writing of Richard Preston weaved a compelling story, for why trees should be much heralded. The book follows a series of amateur and professional arborists/botanists on their journey of discovering the world's largest trees. Along the way, many of the stories become intertwined as the protagonists meet one another and cross paths, sharing stories and, together, uncovering the lush bio-systems of the tree canopies. Add to the mix harrowing accounts of death and near-death, romance, and the author's own introduction to tree climbing, the book becomes more than just a story about trees; it's a story of the precarious balance of life on Earth. By the end, the book both piqued my interest in visiting the Redwood trees of the Pacific Northwest, and imbued in me a strong sense of wanting to protect these ancient living organisms. ...more This book was so refreshing after reading Preston's other books about horrible diseases and the descriptions in there that make your skin crawl. Instead, this was a story about a strange group of people who really love the largest and tallest trees in the world (including himself). As someone who has never climbed a tree, this made me curious to try it if I could cure my fear of heights. The stories about the people were sometimes interesting and sometimes annoying, but I appreciated knowing mor This book was so refreshing after reading Preston's other books about horrible diseases and the descriptions in there that make your skin crawl. Instead, this was a story about a strange group of people who really love the largest and tallest trees in the world (including himself). As someone who has never climbed a tree, this made me curious to try it if I could cure my fear of heights. The stories about the people were sometimes interesting and sometimes annoying, but I appreciated knowing more about the few people in the world studying and climbing these trees. A lot of the descriptions of tree biology and climbing techniques went a bit above my head. I tried my best to understand them, but unfortunately it's way outside of my realm of knowledge. I think more pictures of both trees and climbing would have helped, although I know the trees and the climbing techniques are secret to help preserve these trees. Reading this book was usually a peaceful experience of thinking about huge trees and ancient forests. I hope Preston write more books like this in the future. ...more Great book about the noble Redwoods and a few interesting people who study them, and end up becoming quite emotionally attached to the trees. There's some science, too! I loved learning about all the incredible biology. On the tops of these trees, the climbers discover \"gardens of ferns, fruiting huckleberries, flowering rhododendrons, fully grown bay laurels. Miniature salamanders live in water captured by the giant ferns, as do tiny crustaceans. Preston describes a 60-foot wide platform of bran Great book about the noble Redwoods and a few interesting people who study them, and end up becoming quite emotionally attached to the trees. There's some science, too! I loved learning about all the incredible biology. On the tops of these trees, the climbers discover \"gardens of ferns, fruiting huckleberries, flowering rhododendrons, fully grown bay laurels. Miniature salamanders live in water captured by the giant ferns, as do tiny crustaceans. Preston describes a 60-foot wide platform of branches in the broken-off top of a tree named Kronos, with 22 auxiliary redwood trunks 80 to 100 feet tall and a yard and a half across at their bases.\" Incredible. Preston describes scenes with such clarity I could pretend I was standing in the forest, breathing in that smell so specific to the Redwoods. There is also a very quiet and sweet love story that weaves thru this book, but overall is was the descriptions of climbing and living in trees over 350 feet tall that held me. Made me thankful to have lived in Humboldt county. ...more This book is absolute essential reading for anybody who cares about the natural world, climate change, and all related issues. And anyone interested in nature, trees, ecology, redwoods, natural history, and so on. It totally reads like a thriller; Preston makes you deeply invested in the real people whose lives populate this book. I came away having learned about the search for the tallest and biggest redwoods, as well as the general ecology of forests and redwood forests in particular, yet neve This book is absolute essential reading for anybody who cares about the natural world, climate change, and all related issues. And anyone interested in nature, trees, ecology, redwoods, natural history, and so on. It totally reads like a thriller; Preston makes you deeply invested in the real people whose lives populate this book. I came away having learned about the search for the tallest and biggest redwoods, as well as the general ecology of forests and redwood forests in particular, yet never once felt like I was being tasked with a chore. I've had the unbelievable honor to be able to meet some of the amazing hidden giants talked about in this book--like Illuvatar, Isaac Newton, and others--and that only made subsequent readings that much better. One of my all-time favorite books involving nature/natural history! ...more Preston was very involved and present throughout this book, so much so I'm not sure if I would classify it as nature memoir rather than narrative nonfiction. His presence added information about the feeling of climbing a giant tree, so I'm not condemning it. The focus of this book was rather more on the interesting people who become obsessed with redwoods and slightly less on the trees themselves. Donald Culross Peattie has probably ruined me for anyone else. Preston's an involving writer, thoug Preston was very involved and present throughout this book, so much so I'm not sure if I would classify it as nature memoir rather than narrative nonfiction. His presence added information about the feeling of climbing a giant tree, so I'm not condemning it. The focus of this book was rather more on the interesting people who become obsessed with redwoods and slightly less on the trees themselves. Donald Culross Peattie has probably ruined me for anyone else. Preston's an involving writer, though, and his scenes of derring-do are pulse-pounding and breathtaking. I loved best the descriptions of the little groves, little ecosystems at the tops of the redwoods' canopies. Recommended for tree-huggers everywhere. 3.5 ...more Starting the year off with a book that's going to be hard to top! ;) This is the story of obsession: men and women who eke out a living, if they're lucky (and socially presentable enough) in the botany departments of Pacific Northwest colleges and universities. But their true calling lies 350-feet-plus above the ground mapping the landscapes of coastal redwoods. The discoverers of these trees have the privilege of naming them, usually for characters in mythology or Tolkien; but not always, as in Starting the year off with a book that's going to be hard to top! ;) This is the story of obsession: men and women who eke out a living, if they're lucky (and socially presentable enough) in the botany departments of Pacific Northwest colleges and universities. But their true calling lies 350-feet-plus above the ground mapping the landscapes of coastal redwoods. The discoverers of these trees have the privilege of naming them, usually for characters in mythology or Tolkien; but not always, as in the case of the \"Dry Heaves Tree\". The author goes native, as the reader will be tempted to do. There's a disclaimer at the end: don't climb big trees without proper training. ...more I enjoyed The Wild Trees and did find it to be A Story of Passion and Daring . Had the author been able to keep an appropriate distance from his subjects, though, I would've enjoyed it more. Once Preston entered the story--as a writer for The New Yorker magazine--the book became a fawning tribute to Steve Sillett. Up to that point, he had been presented as a flawed scientist whose single-minded passion for trees--and coastal redwoods, in particular--had consumed every other aspect of his life. If I enjoyed The Wild Trees and did find it to be A Story of Passion and Daring . Had the author been able to keep an appropriate distance from his subjects, though, I would've enjoyed it more. Once Preston entered the story--as a writer for The New Yorker magazine--the book became a fawning tribute to Steve Sillett. Up to that point, he had been presented as a flawed scientist whose single-minded passion for trees--and coastal redwoods, in particular--had consumed every other aspect of his life. If you are interested in the life of a redwood forest, this book is well worth reading, however. ...more I don't think this was a bad book per say. I think that many would actually enjoy the method of story telling, but for several reasons - it just did not work for me. I love nature writing generally, and find giant trees endlessly fascinating, but this dealt much less with the biology and nature of them and it focused on the stories of some dudes that climbed and studied them. I found much of it and their stories quite boring outside of the actual climbing. If I want to read about someone bagging I don't think this was a bad book per say. I think that many would actually enjoy the method of story telling, but for several reasons - it just did not work for me. I love nature writing generally, and find giant trees endlessly fascinating, but this dealt much less with the biology and nature of them and it focused on the stories of some dudes that climbed and studied them. I found much of it and their stories quite boring outside of the actual climbing. If I want to read about someone bagging groceries and having a crush on a girl that shops there, then I'll pick up some chick lit. ...more \"The Wild Trees\" covers two subjects I'm very interested in - the glory and beauty of nature and also the extreme behaviors human beings are capable of in order that they may explore it. I knew nothing of the ecosystems that live in the canopies of redwoods trees; of course, up until 30 or so years ago, no one did! My wild hair has definitely been tweaked. Tree Climbers International's headquarters is right here in Atlanta. . . hmm. Great book. The giant redwoods have been on this earth for thousands of years. Only a small (?) batch of them survive the loggers. These have never been explored. Their tree tops are 20-30 stories in the air and the trees have multiple tree trunks. It is possible to get lost in them! They are one of the rare places on earth that has yet to be really explored. This book tells about some of the pioneer climbers that have made it into their branches. Having read this book on the heels of hiking through the redwoods in northern CA, I am somewhat influenced by the experience. (I was dying to have known the trees the way the people in this book have...) But nevertheless, I love trees, I love quirky characters, and I love this book for bringing the those two things together so well.<---C>Richard   Preston</---C>", "Title": "The Wild Trees: A Story of Passion and Daring"},
