{"Comments": "Another very enjoyable entry in this excellent series. Myron only ever has trouble from his women and in this book he seems to lose every which way! I particularly enjoyed Win in this one with his funny lines, his skewed view of relationships and his unfailing efforts to keep Myron alive. I raced through this book in record time and loved every minute of it. A great achievement on the part of the author considering this is Mr.<---F> Bolitar's ninth outing</---F>. 4.5/10 This was a steaming pile of shit. It could quite easily have gone on the DNF shelf but for two reasons. 1) it was a short book and little chapters make for a quick read. 2) I don't like to stop reading books especially in a series so close to the end. Maybe it's stupidity of \"glass is half full\" outlook but I don't want to stop reading something on the off chance it becomes amazing at the end. However, this wasn't the case here. The thing that I've realised with this series is that the enjo 4.5/10 This was a steaming pile of shit. It could quite easily have gone on the DNF shelf but for two reasons. 1) it was a short book and little chapters make for a quick read. 2) I don't like to stop reading books especially in a series so close to the end. Maybe it's stupidity of \"glass is half full\" outlook but I don't want to stop reading something on the off chance it becomes amazing at the end. However, this wasn't the case here. The thing that I've realised with this series is that the enjoyment levels have seriously dropped since the whole angle of <---C>Myron Bolitar</---C> being a sport agent has been dropped. In the early novels it was the gimmick that made it stand out to other series and something that added extra layers to otherwise normal crime novels. Not only has the sports agent angle been dropped but to replace it <---A>Harlan Coben</---A> has replaced it with Myron being a international terrorist hunter and all credibility is now out of the window. The setup was done early on meaning Myron and Win have to flee the country to France and then the UK and back to USA with a bit of terrorist killing and secret torture added in for good measure. It was dog shit, I actually had to take painkillers from the amount of pain I was getting from all the eye rolling. Also, the book says Win is a vigilante billionaire who hunts people across the globe. So,<---M> just to clear that up then</---M>, he's Batman\u2026 Without ranting too much I'll tie it up here. I think that my tastes have changed since I started this series a number of years ago but also the authors ability to write top notch stuff is waining. I really liked some of his earlier works but I've since read lots more novels and have broadened my horizons. I still maintain though that the early books in this series are worth a read as they have a niche in the crime thriller market. One more in the series (<---B>I hate being a completionist!</---B>) and then I think I will refrain from reading anymore from the author. If you like this try: \"Sleepyhead\" by Mark Billingham ...more <+++>Long Lost</+++> is a 2009 Dutton publication. This ninth installment in the Myron Bolitar series stumbled out of the gate, and never fully gained a proper foothold for me. Within the thriller genre, one must allow a great deal of leeway when it comes to plausibility, because sincerely, in real life most of these scenarios wouldn\u2019t really fly, but they often come close enough to reality to give us pause or cause a little niggle of worry. But, this time out, everything here felt forced and the plot was j <+++>Long Lost</+++> is a 2009 Dutton publication. This ninth installment in the Myron Bolitar series stumbled out of the gate, and never fully gained a proper foothold for me. Within the thriller genre, one must allow a great deal of leeway when it comes to plausibility, because sincerely, in real life most of these scenarios wouldn\u2019t really fly, but they often come close enough to reality to give us pause or cause a little niggle of worry. But, this time out, everything here felt forced and the plot was just a tiny bit too outlandish for me to buy into. Chilling? Yes, on the surface, it is certainly that, and the thought of such a thing could cause a few sleepless nights, but putting a sports agent in the midst of terrorist and the ensuing trust he garnered from the French authorities, and several other key elements just did not jibe for me. In fact, upon deeper reflection, the whole story is pretty messy. I was also disappointed in the turn Myron\u2019s personal life took and that too felt forced or I suppose it was just convenient. Either way, a warm, sweet lady, who is just right for Myron, suddenly turns icy cold, giving him the perfect out, so he can go screw a former lover\u2026 UGH. I felt this series was pretty dependable up to this point, although the last installment did feel a little tepid and not as sharp as previous chapters, making me wonder if the author should take such lengthy breaks between each release of this series, because, in doing so, it seems the series is beginning to lose its charm and momentum. I have only one more book left before I can dive into the new release, which I have been SO excited about, so I\u2019m hoping this is just a one off, and things get back on track from here. 2 stars ...more I liked Myron Bolitar better when he was in just paperback. Ever since these hard back Bolitars, he's weaker. I don't know if Harlan Coben things sissyness comes with age but after his return to his Myron Bolitar character, he's made Myron a total wimp--always crying and saying cheesy things and the way he has Myron describe his feelings towards whoever his current love interest is at the time, it's like Michael Bolton is singing it. I'm not digging the Hardback Myron. I want Paperback Myron bac I liked Myron Bolitar better when he was in just paperback. Ever since these hard back Bolitars, he's weaker. I don't know if Harlan Coben things sissyness comes with age but after his return to his Myron Bolitar character, he's made Myron a total wimp--always crying and saying cheesy things and the way he has Myron describe his feelings towards whoever his current love interest is at the time, it's like Michael Bolton is singing it. I'm not digging the Hardback Myron. I want Paperback Myron back. Other than that, it wasn't as captivating as his others. I was apathetic towards the other characters, about the plot and the whole thing was just a little tired. I also felt like Harlan was jumping the shark with the whole Paris setting in the beginning. It really served no purpose whatsoever except to have the setting somewhere other than New Jersey. Lame. ...more Myron and I go way back. I first discovered the series around the third or fourth book so that's at least ten years ago. And boy, was I hooked! Coben really ruined Myron when he \"gave\" Myron a son. Myron is not the kind of person who can be a father without being a daddy. Maybe that's why he took several years away from Myron and focused on standalones (never as good as Myron). So, the last one (Promise Me) was good but I think Coben didn't quite know how to deal with son, parents, and an aging Myron and I go way back. I first discovered the series around the third or fourth book so that's at least ten years ago. And boy, was I hooked! Coben really ruined Myron when he \"gave\" Myron a son. Myron is not the kind of person who can be a father without being a daddy. Maybe that's why he took several years away from Myron and focused on standalones (never as good as Myron). So, the last one (Promise Me) was good but I think Coben didn't quite know how to deal with son, parents, and an aging Myron so he put the son and the parents on the shelf. This one brings back the parents and I've always enjoyed the relationship he has with them. This book is dark and sad. Myron becomes broken. It brings back a love interest that wasn't very interesting the first time around. The banter between Myron and Win just isn't the same... but enough about Mee (you'll get that when you read the book.). Do I still love Myron? Yes, I'd cheat on my husband in a second for Myron (but Myron's not that kind of guy.) But if I was starting the series with this book, I doubt I would go back and start from number 1. And I've read the earlier ones in the series at least twice. ...more What to say about this disappointing book.... compared to its Scandinavian counterparts Long Lost is about as tense and taut as an old bag of jello. The characters are one dimensional. The plot is fantastical and ends predictably. The pacing is poor. And what's become of Myron Bolivar? When did he become this smart ass, high school jock with the emotional range of a wet fish? That said, I liked Win. Win rocks! One theme of the book is that sometimes it is necessary to torture people to get access to their secrets. It is odious, but it saves lives, so isn't it morally acceptable to do so? I viscerally hate this kind of thinking, even in fiction, and must speak against it. When people are tortured, they are tortured until they say what they say what their captors want to hear. If they don't know details of a terrorist plot, the torture will continue until they cough something up, true or not. This alone One theme of the book is that sometimes it is necessary to torture people to get access to their secrets. It is odious, but it saves lives, so isn't it morally acceptable to do so? I viscerally hate this kind of thinking, even in fiction, and must speak against it. When people are tortured, they are tortured until they say what they say what their captors want to hear. If they don't know details of a terrorist plot, the torture will continue until they cough something up, true or not. This alone makes torture useless for intelligence gathering, but it gets worse. When you have legitimized torture as a tool to prevent terrorism, you become obligated to torture anyone who might know something. And as shown, this torture will reveal more dangerous people and future terror plots - none of them real, but declared simply to stop the pain. And those people whose names that were provided will have to be tortured next, because they will deny being sleeper cell terrorists until the electricity flowing through their genitals convinces them to speak up. This book is evil, and the plot and characters don't make it worth it. There are other, better Coben books to borrow from the library. ...more Such awful writing! Every dialog, every encounter, every event to drive the plot forward sounds forced. The plot itself... Poor. Why have deductive or investigation skills when you have a best friend (a bad-ass killing machine and filthy rich) whose life is solely dedicated to your hopes, feelings and problems? Police is chasing you? Here comes Win in his private jet with falsified documents to get you out of the country. A group of meanies is threatening to shoot you? Here comes Win with a sni Such awful writing! Every dialog, every encounter, every event to drive the plot forward sounds forced. The plot itself... Poor. Why have deductive or investigation skills when you have a best friend (a bad-ass killing machine and filthy rich) whose life is solely dedicated to your hopes, feelings and problems? Police is chasing you? Here comes Win in his private jet with falsified documents to get you out of the country. A group of meanies is threatening to shoot you? Here comes Win with a sniper riffle! ...Ridiculous. This was the first book by Harlan Coben I've read, and definitely the last. I had heard very good things about his books, but for the life of me I don't understand why. ...more Coben's really lost his thread on Myron Bolitar. The guy used to be a snarky sports agent, and the books were somewhat light and breezy and fun. Remember the days when each book featured a case set around a different professional sport? And the violence in the books, when it happened, was somewhat personal. It didn't need to be extreme because it was real, and real for the characters, and that gave it all the weight it needed. Now Coben's become more interested in writing standalone thrillers, so Coben's really lost his thread on Myron Bolitar. The guy used to be a snarky sports agent, and the books were somewhat light and breezy and fun. Remember the days when each book featured a case set around a different professional sport? And the violence in the books, when it happened, was somewhat personal. It didn't need to be extreme because it was real, and real for the characters, and that gave it all the weight it needed. Now Coben's become more interested in writing standalone thrillers, something that he doesn't do very well with his two-dimensional characters, belabored characterization, and obvious, somewhat whiny, narration. He's brought that same style over into the Bolitar books, and it's not a good match. There's really no reason for this story to be happening to Bolitar, in fact, except perhaps to sate Bolitar fans who were awaiting a new chapter in Myron's life. It feels more like the plot of one of Coben's standalone thrillers grafted on the character of Bolitar, and it's not a fit that works or makes much sense. Additionally, the way Coben has changed Bolitar's character over the newest books doesn't work either, and is contrary to everything the character once represented. Suddenly Myron is a superhero who's always involved in oodles of ultra-violence, while simultaneously being a lost romantic who waxes on and on about his feelings for women he has no real connection to. And Win? Coben can't seem to resist using the most sophmoric, unfunny humor with the character, and using it over and over and over when it was never funny in the first place. At this point, Coben's just phoning these novels in and has \"long lost\" sight of what made the Bolitar books work in the first place. I give Coben points for being a decent writer and being able to adequately hold a story together, but it's far cry from the great writer he once had the potential of becoming. ...more This was my first Harlan Coben and I am definitely going to read lots by him in the future. This book got me hooked from the beginning till the very end. It was fast paced and entertaining. Loved Myron Bolitar he was fun to be with. He was aggressive, witty, emotional and everything!! Didn't know this book was part of a series when i picked it up from my library, now that i know i am definitely going to continue with it as i am eager to know more about Myron and his history. N\u00e3o sei qual \u00e9 exatamente o meu problema com Harlan Coben, um autor de renome que parece agradar bastante \u00e0 generalidade dos leitores. Da\u00ed que parto do princ\u00edpio que o 'problema' seja meu porque n\u00e3o consigo (!) ultrapassar diversos pormenores/irregularidades/incoer\u00eancias embutidas na escrita do autor. Estas v\u00e3o acumulando e acabam por me provocar uma irrita\u00e7\u00e3o crescente em rela\u00e7\u00e3o ao livro ao ponto de a leitura se tornar bastante desagrad\u00e1vel. A investiga\u00e7\u00e3o por detr\u00e1s do enredo, que o fundament N\u00e3o sei qual \u00e9 exatamente o meu problema com Harlan Coben, um autor de renome que parece agradar bastante \u00e0 generalidade dos leitores. Da\u00ed que parto do princ\u00edpio que o 'problema' seja meu porque n\u00e3o consigo (!) ultrapassar diversos pormenores/irregularidades/incoer\u00eancias embutidas na escrita do autor. Estas v\u00e3o acumulando e acabam por me provocar uma irrita\u00e7\u00e3o crescente em rela\u00e7\u00e3o ao livro ao ponto de a leitura se tornar bastante desagrad\u00e1vel. A investiga\u00e7\u00e3o por detr\u00e1s do enredo, que o fundamente, parece-me muito pobre e insatisfat\u00f3ria. As 'piadolas' rid\u00edculas que, para mim, raramente funcionam, levam-me a desenvolver uma certa impaci\u00eancia para com os personagens. A descri\u00e7\u00e3o do car\u00e1cter destes personagens n\u00e3o parece corresponder \u00e0s suas escolhas /a\u00e7\u00f5es. Para onde quer que olhe s\u00f3 vejo clich\u00e9s. O desenvolvimento do enredo \u00e9 frustrante: estamos uma eternidade \u00e0s voltas no ponto A e de repente j\u00e1 estamos no ponto B e nem percebemos bem como. Os di\u00e1logos pareceram-me sem nexo na sua grande maioria, mal desenvolvidos e recorrentemente desnecess\u00e1rios e 'infantil\u00f3ides'. Sei que a hist\u00f3ria, na sua base, n\u00e3o \u00e9 m\u00e1 e tem bastante potencial\u2026mas este aglomerado de 'problemas' impediu-me de a apreciar pelo que talvez seja. ...more That was easy. The latest Myron Bolitar mystery/thriller is a fast easy read. Bolitar, is a sports agent, but sometimes gets involved in solving mysteries. Several years before he had a relationship with Teresa Collins, a beautiful news anchor who fell off the grid. He receives a call from her to come to Paris and when he meets up with her gets involved in a mystery concerning her ex husband's death and seemingly sees a blond teenager who may or may not be Collins's daughter. The same daughter wh That was easy. The latest Myron Bolitar mystery/thriller is a fast easy read. Bolitar, is a sports agent, but sometimes gets involved in solving mysteries. Several years before he had a relationship with Teresa Collins, a beautiful news anchor who fell off the grid. He receives a call from her to come to Paris and when he meets up with her gets involved in a mystery concerning her ex husband's death and seemingly sees a blond teenager who may or may not be Collins's daughter. The same daughter who was supposed to have died in a car crash ten years previously. Bolitar and his handy millionaire friend Win, a nasty very well trained killer, start to investigate. Without revealing too much of the plot, Bolitar ends up killing someone very nasty, is tortured, is warned off of the consequences of continuing his investigation and continues to look for the blond girl. I do not want to give any more of the plot away, but thought this was a fun read with old friends. Bolitar, Win, Bolitar's agent friend Esperanza, and Big Cyndi all make an appearance along with Win's newest conquest Mee, a limber asian girl. Its all done in a nice neat style. ...more The premise of this book? That's right. Apparently, terrorist organizations can't find enough recruits, so they've begun using in-vitro fertilization at great personal expense ($15 grand a pop) in order to manufacture them. Long Lost is hilarious, in an unintentional sort of way. I love Harlan..Myron and Win but this adventure was waaaaaay too out there for my taste. I liked the old Myron that was witty while he was looking for who hit who over the head at the country club. Good writing..just too far fetched for me. Harlan..bring back the old Myron. Another series to add to my list! Hi Myron Bolitar and Win and Esperanza. So far this is the weakest Myron novel. Its weak in plot and Myron has lost any sort of uniqueness to his character. He seems to be lost in a mid-life crisis that has started to escalate from the last novel and only makes him more pathetic. What bothers me the most is that by Coben's math Myron is actually pretty old in this novel. (Duke+Celtics+Law school + FBI time + 12 years as a sports representative + added years from last book... this guy is over 50). He is a little too old for how wimpy a So far this is the weakest Myron novel. Its weak in plot and Myron has lost any sort of uniqueness to his character. He seems to be lost in a mid-life crisis that has started to escalate from the last novel and only makes him more pathetic. What bothers me the most is that by Coben's math Myron is actually pretty old in this novel. (Duke+Celtics+Law school + FBI time + 12 years as a sports representative + added years from last book... this guy is over 50). He is a little too old for how wimpy and childish he is acting in this book. Aren't these sort of men supposed to get stronger in their moral fiber with age? (Think Gran Torino lol) ...more I've been doing something with the Myron Bolitar series that I've never done with any other. I'm talking about series that have 15+ books in them or even 20 or more. Every one of those series I've read in order. And there's a lot of them. Probably at least 20 of them. But not this one. Years ago, I can't remember when because it was not any time in the recent past, I read Deal Breaker , the first Myron Bolitar. I must not have felt any urgent need to read any more of the series, because I didn't I've been doing something with the Myron Bolitar series that I've never done with any other. I'm talking about series that have 15+ books in them or even 20 or more. Every one of those series I've read in order. And there's a lot of them. Probably at least 20 of them. But not this one. Years ago, I can't remember when because it was not any time in the recent past, I read Deal Breaker , the first Myron Bolitar. I must not have felt any urgent need to read any more of the series, because I didn't until July of this year when I picked up Fade Away , the third book in the series. See, there I go already, skipping a book. I think I tried to get the second book at the library but they didn't have it, so #3 was close enough. I know that the only reason I decided to start reading this again was that I had been reading a lot of Harlan Coben's stand alone books, most of which I enjoyed, and thought, \"maybe I should check out that Myron Bolitar series again.\" But then did I go back and read #2 or even #4 after that. Um, no. By that time I had picked up a three book YA series that the author wrote about Myron's nephew Mickey Bolitar. I started to read it and realized that there was a whole bunch of information that I was missing from previous Myron Bolitar books. If Mickey had been living in a different city and wasn't in contact with Myron it would have been different. But he was living with Myron who also played a big part in the series. So back I went to read the book in Myron's series that happened chronologically right before the first book in the Mickey series. Confused yet? I am. Anyway, back to this book. With all of the books so far in the series I haven't really felt anything for the characters. I mean Myron is a super nice guy who loves his family and friends fiercely. He's just not doing it for me though. Maybe because so much of what Myron and his best friend Win do is so unbelievable. So much of it seems like stuff 14 year old boys want to see in movies. You know, like Win taking out 6 big hulking guys with just his hands and leaves them bloody and broken. Seriously, who does that? In the movies sure, but in real life? No. Or when Myron has gotten himself in a tight situation with some really bad guys who are probably going to kill him, Win just happens to be in the right place at the right time with a high powered sniper rifle trained on them to take them out. And he wasn't even supposed to be in the same country as Myron at the time. But poof, there he is. Pure fantasy. And ridiculous. Okay, one more thing and then I'm going to stop. Myron is a very emotional guy. A really really emotional guy. He cries a lot. Or he tears up. I'm an emotional person too. I tend to cry more than most people, or at least get teary eyed over certain movies and books. But Myron has me beat. By a long shot. I started noticing how much Myron was always crying or about to cry a few books ago. So this time I decided to count every time Myron cried, or teared up, or was weeping, or had tears running down his face, or last but not least, tried to stop himself from crying. I'm not kidding. This is all in there. So what was the final count? They all added up to 23 times. 23 times!!! Now I love a sensitive man who's not afraid to show his feelings, but this is a bit much even for me. Just not sure where the author is going with all this. Is it just me or does anyone else get bothered by all his crying? ...more LONG LOST (Unl. Inv-Myron Bolitar-New Jersey/Paris-Cont) \u2013 G+ Coben, Harlan \u2013 9th in series Dutton, 2009, US Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780525951056 First Sentence: \u201cYOU don\u2019t know her secret,\u201d Win said to me. When talent/sports agent Myron Bolitar\u2019s girlfriend, Ali, breaks it off, there is no reason not to respond to a call from his former lover, Terese Collins, and fly to Paris. Terese had married, had a daughter who died in a car accident, and divorced. Myron is stopped, but released, by French Homeland LONG LOST (Unl. Inv-Myron Bolitar-New Jersey/Paris-Cont) \u2013 G+ Coben, Harlan \u2013 9th in series Dutton, 2009, US Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780525951056 First Sentence: \u201cYOU don\u2019t know her secret,\u201d Win said to me. When talent/sports agent Myron Bolitar\u2019s girlfriend, Ali, breaks it off, there is no reason not to respond to a call from his former lover, Terese Collins, and fly to Paris. Terese had married, had a daughter who died in a car accident, and divorced. Myron is stopped, but released, by French Homeland security, but finds he is followed as he meets with Terese. Things quickly turn to shootouts in cafes, terrorist groups, murder and the possibility that Terese\u2019s daughter may, in fact, be alive. The plot was certainly timely as the story involved terrorism, black sites, torture and twilight sleep. The plot was very good, in a twisty, horrible way, as it dealt with the dangers of extremism, and asks some serious questions while wrapped up in a story with some very real characters. I had forgotten how much I like these characters; Myron, his parents, Esparanza, Big Cindy and, yes, even Win about whom we learn a bit more. There is a lot of violence and one scene with Myron\u2019s health that does stretch credulity just a bit. The pace never slowed down, from beginning to end. It was an exciting, somewhat thought provoking, enjoyable read. ...more I picked up this book recently, forgetting that I'd already read it once before a few years ago. I began reading it & by the time I was finished I was glad I'd made that error. Myron Bolitar receives a call from his old girl friend, Terese, who now lives in Paris, telling him it's urgent that he go there immediately to meet with her. Shortly after he arrives, Terese's ex-husband is murdered. Terese tells him that just before her ex-husband was killed he'd called her saying that a life-changin I picked up this book recently, forgetting that I'd already read it once before a few years ago. I began reading it & by the time I was finished I was glad I'd made that error. Myron Bolitar receives a call from his old girl friend, Terese, who now lives in Paris, telling him it's urgent that he go there immediately to meet with her. Shortly after he arrives, Terese's ex-husband is murdered. Terese tells him that just before her ex-husband was killed he'd called her saying that a life-changing event was about to occur with her. When Terese was married to the ex-husband ten years previously, they had a daughter, Miriam. When Miriam was 7 yrs. old, she died in a car accident when Terese was driving, which also left Terese in a coma for 2 weeks. But now there is strong evidence that Miriam never died at all then. The reader probably feels it's a foregone conclusion that the book will end with them somehow finding Miriam alive. But the author has plans with the plot that only an experienced writer could ever come up with. It involves a sinister group called 'Save the Angels.' By the name itself, one would think that would be an outreach to investigate which would perhaps end with them finding Miriam still alive. The reader will have to read the book to unravel the well-written plot within its action-packed pages. ...more LONG LOST is a mixed bag. It has a great plot, but suffers from some of the most horribly lame jokey dialog I've ever read. What was Coben thinking? If this is what passes for \"witty banter\" these days, the future of pop-lit is doomed. Other than that, the book is OK. Great action, an improbable plot, and supporting characters who are either completely stereotypical or feel like they belong in a cartoon. Like most modern thrillers, LONG LOST moves at a breathless pace. It feels a lot like one of LONG LOST is a mixed bag. It has a great plot, but suffers from some of the most horribly lame jokey dialog I've ever read. What was Coben thinking? If this is what passes for \"witty banter\" these days, the future of pop-lit is doomed. Other than that, the book is OK. Great action, an improbable plot, and supporting characters who are either completely stereotypical or feel like they belong in a cartoon. Like most modern thrillers, LONG LOST moves at a breathless pace. It feels a lot like one of James Patterson's Alex Cross novels, except that Coben's prose is not quite so lazy. It's a 400+ page novel that's easier to devour than a plate of freshly baked chocolate chip cookies, and about as equally nourishing. Somehow, what with all the accolades Coben has gotten, I was expecting a bit more. I did, however, appreciate that the book touched on a lot of sensitive issues (abortion, torture, Muslim terrorists, etc.) without ever trying to jam a moral or political agenda down readers' throats. Finally, despite my jumping into the series at Book #9, there was nothing about the story that ever seemed confusing or unclear. Whether that's a good thing or a bad thing I guess depends on how you look at it. ...more This was certainly not my favorite Myron Bolitar book. I just couldn't get into this entire plot. This tale was pretty far-fetched and unoriginal. In this 9th book, Myron flies to Paris to help out Therese, (the Big TV-news show anchor woman) whom he had last had seen 8 years ago and had disappeared since then. From there the story spins into terrorist gangs and, badly enough, too much violence and dead bodies. For the record, I liked the French detective, Berl\u00e9ant, that character brought at lea This was certainly not my favorite Myron Bolitar book. I just couldn't get into this entire plot. This tale was pretty far-fetched and unoriginal. In this 9th book, Myron flies to Paris to help out Therese, (the Big TV-news show anchor woman) whom he had last had seen 8 years ago and had disappeared since then. From there the story spins into terrorist gangs and, badly enough, too much violence and dead bodies. For the record, I liked the French detective, Berl\u00e9ant, that character brought at least some kind of authenticity, and a bit of color to the story. Overall, there wasn't much to be captivated by. This hit me while reading this book: what motivates Myron to pick the type of women he's attracted to? I sensed that Myron's relationship with Therese fel quite unsubstantiated. By this I mean, other than the apparent physical attraction, which is mentioned in the book, what are the reasons to possibly make Myron fall in love with Therese (or other certain women)? I think, in general, I'd want more subtext to his relationships, a real sense of connection, you know. And I didn't feel this here. ...more I have never read this author before...WOW! This book had me from the first page! Do you ever picture \"Hollywood Stars\" as the characters while you are reading a book? Since I don't ever want to divulge information about a book...I will just tell you this... Myron = I would cast as Ben Affleck Win = (whom I TOTALLY see as SO SEXY) Ryan Gossling Terese = Charlez Theron (spelling ??) Berealand = Ray Liotta (maybe...with corny glasses??) Esperanza = Queen Latifa Ok...good cast? This book was truly entert I have never read this author before...WOW! This book had me from the first page! Do you ever picture \"Hollywood Stars\" as the characters while you are reading a book? Since I don't ever want to divulge information about a book...I will just tell you this... Myron = I would cast as Ben Affleck Win = (whom I TOTALLY see as SO SEXY) Ryan Gossling Terese = Charlez Theron (spelling ??) Berealand = Ray Liotta (maybe...with corny glasses??) Esperanza = Queen Latifa Ok...good cast? This book was truly entertaining and I will say a MUST READ for mystery fans! For some reason, I didn't want to read this book, but I am soooooo glad that I did! I also wonder if there is (or going to be a sequel)? This book, as some mysteries will, did not confuse me or bring in any other characters or information that was not a curiosity throughout. I know that might not make sense...but it kept me captivated all the way through! I will say...Stem cell research, In vitro Fertilization, and Jihad...Kind-of a scary combination, huh? READ THIS BOOK! Thank you to my friend and neighbor for loaning!! ...more I have long been a big fan of Harlan Coben, with both his stand-alone novels and his Myron Bolitar series. While still an enjoyable read, Long Lost is far from Coben's best work. Some things were lacking for me, such as the usual banter between Myron and his best friend Win. The plot was a little over the top and at times stretched my ability to believe. In an attempt to create mystery and suspense, the story often lingered in a foggy mist that was more irritating than interesting. That being sa I have long been a big fan of Harlan Coben, with both his stand-alone novels and his Myron Bolitar series. While still an enjoyable read, Long Lost is far from Coben's best work. Some things were lacking for me, such as the usual banter between Myron and his best friend Win. The plot was a little over the top and at times stretched my ability to believe. In an attempt to create mystery and suspense, the story often lingered in a foggy mist that was more irritating than interesting. That being said, this is a quick, entertaining read that will appeal to many Harlan Coben fans. If you have yet to read a book from the Myron Bolitar series, I would not recommend starting with this one. ...more I read it in one day! Luckily I had the time for it! Hooked me in right from the start! I only have one more book in this series to go and I am resisting reading it because I don't want this series to end! First visit to Coben. Fairly decent story line with many twists. Entertaining suspence piece with a style that has a sort of story teller humor to it at times. Worth the time. Het boek neemt je direct mee en het laat je niet meer los tot de laatste pagina. Top. 4,5 sterren Those familiar with Harlan Coben's series of novels featuring Myron Bolitar will know the drill by now. Myron is cruising along happily when something interferes with his steady life, usually related to an event in his past. He gets involved in somebody else's business, experiences lots of twists and turns, is repeatedly saved from harm by the all-seeing, all-knowing, invincible Win, and usually finds time for a bit of romance. There are wisecracks-a-plenty, lots of excitement, a bit of philosop Those familiar with Harlan Coben's series of novels featuring Myron Bolitar will know the drill by now. Myron is cruising along happily when something interferes with his steady life, usually related to an event in his past. He gets involved in somebody else's business, experiences lots of twists and turns, is repeatedly saved from harm by the all-seeing, all-knowing, invincible Win, and usually finds time for a bit of romance. There are wisecracks-a-plenty, lots of excitement, a bit of philosophy and a couple of soapbox moments from Coben. In other words, these books have everything a thriller needs. Like its predecessors, Long Lost is ridiculously silly and will cause serious eye rolling. But it's Myron, it's splendid fun and a damn good read. ...more Started reading without knowing the book was one in a series starring the main character - Myron Bolitar. For the most part, the book can stand on its own, without the previous books, as \"almost\" enough background is given so the plot makes sense. On the plot, Coben does an great job leading the reader down different paths. Really good. Scary in today's world. Myron Bolitar and Terese Collins had a torrid affair on an island ten years previously, but he has neither seen nor heard from her since. He's become involved in a relationship with Ali Wilder, a widow with two children--one being ten year old Jack, whom is in fifth grade and is on the basketball team. Myron attends his games and ends up in a row with the coach from the other team and his buddies because of their ill treatment toward Jack during the game. Between he and Win, they badly injure tw Myron Bolitar and Terese Collins had a torrid affair on an island ten years previously, but he has neither seen nor heard from her since. He's become involved in a relationship with Ali Wilder, a widow with two children--one being ten year old Jack, whom is in fifth grade and is on the basketball team. Myron attends his games and ends up in a row with the coach from the other team and his buddies because of their ill treatment toward Jack during the game. Between he and Win, they badly injure two of them. Myron had hoped he and Ali could work things out and plan a future together, only for Ali to tell him they are moving to Arizona where both her parents and in-laws currently live, and says she doesn't see a future happening for them. He is devastated and at a total loss as to how to change her mind. Myron receives a phone call from Terese, telling him she desperately needs his help and to meet her at a hotel in Paris, but she will wait to explain her situation after he arrives. Myron does make the trip to Paris, and upon arriving at the airport in Paris, is shocked to be pulled out of the long line for customs inspection and repeatedly questioned about why he has come, whom he is in Paris to see, etc. He is finally released and meets with Terese, and is told her husband is missing, and wants Myron to find him. As they come out of the hotel, Myron realizes a white van has blocked his vehicle, and it is the same men whom had detained him at the airport. Turns out it is the French police, and they take him in for questioning yet again. It seems Terese's husband has been found murdered and Terese is their #1 suspect. After a lengthy time spent w/police, they finally again release him. Myron is sitting at a sidewalk cafe when he is joined by a total stranger, whom tells him to look under the table---and he finds a gun pointed at him! Myron scopes out the situation and realizes there is another man waiting on the sidewalk just down the street, as well as an idling van. The man at the table w/him is telling him he is to walk to the van and get in, but Myron knows if he does he likely will also 'disappear'. Instead, Myron suddenly leaps up w/great force, shoving the table into the man and knocking him down. He grabs the gun, which has been knocked out of the man's hand, and shoots the man waiting down the street. Now, he's wanted by the French police for murder! He calls Win, his long-term best friend whom is also in Paris and describes the situation. Win tells him he is going to fly both Terese and Myron to London on his private jet to do further investigation and try to learn what is really going on. By now, Terese has had the opportunity to tell Myron of her struggles to become pregnant, finally having a daughter born to her marriage, and about the fatal accident that destroyed her marriage, her happiness, and took her beloved daughter. The police have discovered another blood stain at the scene of Terese's husband's murder, which creates a possibility Terese's daughter may possibly still be alive!! Myron and Terese are racing to stay a step ahead of Homeland Security, Interpol, and Mossad in France where nothing is as it seems. They are working fast and furious to learn what happened to Terese's long-lost little girl---but also to uncover a sinister plot with shocking global implications. As usual, Harlan Coben creates so many twists and turns to this story, but it keeps the reader's interest at a keen level throughout. I highly recommend this book and hope others will derive the pleasure that I did from the read. ...more", "Title": "Long Lost"},
