{"Comments": "<+++>Just Around The Bend: M\u00e1s o Menos</+++>First of all, as with the author\u2019s first book \u2018On The Other Hand\u2019 I declare an interest in \u2018Just Around The Bend\u2019. I know the author very well and I edited both books for her. I have not and will not be paid for my services in any way. This book stands on its own merit and needs no props or bias. It\u2019s from this standpoint that I am pleased to write my review. Written from the viewpoint of an observer \u2018Just Around The Bend\u2019 examines the mind of Humanity, the concept of Oneness and the human experi First of all, as with the author\u2019s first book \u2018On The Other Hand\u2019 I declare an interest in \u2018Just Around The Bend\u2019. I know the author very well and I edited both books for her. I have not and will not be paid for my services in any way. This book stands on its own merit and needs no props or bias. It\u2019s from this standpoint that I am pleased to write my review. Written from the viewpoint of an observer \u2018Just Around The Bend\u2019 examines the mind of Humanity, the concept of Oneness and the human experience common to all of us; together with all its foibles. <---A>Ren\u00e9e Paule</---A> has written some unusual essays that,<---M> for example</---M>, examine what \u2018Faith\u2019 is, the \u2018Mind Dramas\u2019 we enact and what close \u2018Observation\u2019 of our world means. As in her book \u2018On The Other Hand\u2019 she does this in her unique conversational, self-reflective and semi-autobiographical style. The book is interesting in that it is both a lens and a mirror; it will have you nodding your head in hearty agreement or shaking it in dissent; which one, I suppose, may depend on whether you catch sight of someone else or yourself. However, there is little, if anything, in this book that can be denied. Just Around the Bend contains some charming illustrations drawn by the author depicting facets of the human psyche discussed within the book. I recommend this book for those of you who are reflecting on their lives or life in general, wondering what it\u2019s all about. ...more There's a lot of inspiration stuffed inside this little book, and it's definitely one that everybody should read. Illustrated with \"Dilly\" (<---B>a thought form</---B>) who accompanies readers as they go through the book, Just Around the Bend is a powerful and impressive guide to life and study of the human experience. The great thing about it is that anybody can read it. It has no target age range, so either adults or kids can read it and enjoy it and learn from it. There are numerous books on humanity and There's a lot of inspiration stuffed inside this little book, and it's definitely one that everybody should read. Illustrated with \"Dilly\" (a thought form) who accompanies readers as they go through the book, Just Around the Bend is a powerful and impressive guide to life and study of the human experience. The great thing about it is that anybody can read it. It has no target age range, so either adults or kids can read it and enjoy it and learn from it. There are numerous books on humanity and philosophy out there, but Just Around the Bend is so entirely unique that it's in a class all its own. My favourite part of it was definitely the illustrations, which not only provide a touch of the author's originality, but they also display various points being made in the text. This book is amazing and definitely worth reading. ...more I was honoured to be asked to beta read \u2018Just Around the Bend\u2019 as I thoroughly enjoyed Ren\u00e9e\u2019s previous book \u2018On the Other Hand\u2019. Having read the book from cover to cover, I came to a realisation that the author has once again timelessly inspired me.<---F> I enjoyed every minute of it</---F>. And most of all, I loved Dilly. The thought bubble depicted life and how people behave toward each other, and thus show the reader how to look behind what eyes can see. How to think beyond what the mind thinks\u2026 I have l I was honoured to be asked to beta read \u2018Just Around the Bend\u2019 as I thoroughly enjoyed Ren\u00e9e\u2019s previous book \u2018On the Other Hand\u2019. Having read the book from cover to cover, I came to a realisation that the author has once again timelessly inspired me. I enjoyed every minute of it. And most of all, I loved Dilly. The thought bubble depicted life and how people behave toward each other, and thus show the reader how to look behind what eyes can see. How to think beyond what the mind thinks\u2026 I have loved reading it and will dive in it again in order to improve my quality of life inside of me. The book resonated with me and I felt it was written about me, for me. Simple and clear, the author has shared insights that can be applied to life quite easily. While reading the book I realised something - I have to be kinder to me, and should put an end to the interference of all the negative energies that drag me down. I have to embrace life, I have to embrace myself, be true to myself and to live life to the fullest. I have loved reading every word written in this book, as it opened my eyes and helped me observe every thought and every motive behind a human\u2019s action. I found a lot of things in this book that I knew but never actually knew I knew them. But now with a new approach to life, I find it easy to help myself become complete within me. I have stopped looking for external crutches and the illusions of finding happiness through other people. I\u2019m finding it within me and I will cherish it for life, however long or short my life is. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wishes to get a better understanding of their live and live a happier one. ...more There was probably a point in your existence that you've been asked a very simple question, and that is \"what is life?\" back then, a 10-year old me would always say, \"life is about being happy and being with your family\" When asked in high school, without even thinking much, i would say, life is about achieving success, getting a dream job, getting married and have children, which is the usual portrayal of \"the perfect life\" that the media would have us believe. But what really is life? Are we mer There was probably a point in your existence that you've been asked a very simple question, and that is \"what is life?\" back then, a 10-year old me would always say, \"life is about being happy and being with your family\" When asked in high school, without even thinking much, i would say, life is about achieving success, getting a dream job, getting married and have children, which is the usual portrayal of \"the perfect life\" that the media would have us believe. But what really is life? Are we merely just robots of the daily grind, being the mechanical drones of jobs we need to do for a living? Are we living so that we could enjoy Films, games, social media, these inescapable \"distractions?\" So... what is life? Each time I've read a self-help book, often times it would tell us how we should live, spoon-feeding the answers to the big questions of life. Just around the bend however, only gives you questions. It makes you go deep in your roots and analyzing your own life through a series of insightful essays that cater to a wide array of topics ranging from the use of social media to the author's own personal experiences. Before reading this book, being through a lot of experiences, I find it quite difficult now to define what life is for me, Especially now that I am in a stage in life where I have to make very important decisions. So I am thrilled to have read this book because it gave me a lot of insight an a lot of different perspectives as to how I would tackle the challenges of life. Countless lessons are to be learned from this book. Simple lessons, yet full of so much substance. One thing that struck me the most is how the author emphasizes the importance of self-awareness. Being able to control yourself, being aware of what's holding us back in living the life we've always worked hard for. Lastly, The combination of words, illustrations and comics(starring Dilly) add to the whole reading experience. This book is simply beautiful. I will read this again without hesitation. ...more Check out the complete review at Views She Writes - WordPress Reviews Philosophy has always been my favorite topic. So when I came across this book, there was no second thought. And it was absolutely worth it. Renee has written a beautiful book with so much points to think and ponder about our own life. After reading the book, you really feel like going back and analyzing your life. Renee has given so many points to think of and improve our lives. The book is more of a self help kind of book in a Check out the complete review at Views She Writes - WordPress Reviews Philosophy has always been my favorite topic. So when I came across this book, there was no second thought. And it was absolutely worth it. Renee has written a beautiful book with so much points to think and ponder about our own life. After reading the book, you really feel like going back and analyzing your life. Renee has given so many points to think of and improve our lives. The book is more of a self help kind of book in a very different. There are so many self help books available in the market? So what is different about this one? All the other books give us answers to questions which may not be even relevant to us. Renee with her book \u201cJust around the bend\u201d gives us only questions, but those questions are more useful and beneficial than all the other irrelevant answers. These questions make us think and find answers tailor made for ourselves. These answers which we find out ourselves help us so much better than all the ready made answers we get through other self help books The way she has explained to find happiness within and not to search for someone else to make you happy is something really amazing. Chapters like emotion being energy in motion, or perception, really makes you wonder at things you would never have thought about. The question \u201cWould you be your own friend if you were to meet yourself someday?\u201d is a well known question to check if you find yourself interesting. And Renee has put it up wonderfully in the book. The book is deeply philosophical and insightful. The entire journey with the book had been beautiful and really knowledgeable. Unfortunately I read the second book first and now going to the first book. But after this, I am sure I will love the first book just as much, if not more. ...more I was lucky enough to be one of the beta readers chosen by Renee Paule, so i received the ARC of Just around the bend: Mas o Menos (complete with suggestive illustrations), and for this i would like to thank the author, this gesture is very much appreciated by me.This book helped me to understand better many things from around me and it came in a difficult time of my life when i needed something like this to open my eyes.This book is like small on the outside but so big on the inside, with so ma I was lucky enough to be one of the beta readers chosen by Renee Paule, so i received the ARC of Just around the bend: Mas o Menos (complete with suggestive illustrations), and for this i would like to thank the author, this gesture is very much appreciated by me.This book helped me to understand better many things from around me and it came in a difficult time of my life when i needed something like this to open my eyes.This book is like small on the outside but so big on the inside, with so many facts about life, about humanity.The most important thing i have learned is that we cannot live in the past, we cannot let painful memories control us, and in the same time there is no future, so no one should surrender to worries, there is only Now, the present time, here.We should live the moment, this is all we have.The author is an expert in explaining why we should not let feelings of negativity control us and our lives.Our mind can be our best friend or our worst enemy, it depends on us whether we want to live in a \u201dcage\u201d of sadness or just to be free , with our souls relaxed and happy.This book is not about finding solutions to our daily problems, it is about lighting up a path towards understanding humanity, universe and life.We have to be more opened , we have to live , we have to get out from our houses, and not stay all the time in the same environment, where we are continuously bombarded with bad news on tv, where internet keeps us from having a real interaction with other people.Why do we always choose the easy way out, why do we care so much about other people\u201ds opinions on us, why do we enjoy destroying ourselves?!WE have our eyes open, but can we really see?! I rediscovered myself in this book and how to be more confident in myself, what is the best reaction in different situations, how to overcome obstacles in life by first looking at myself, deep within my soul.\u201dJust around the bend\u201d is about choices, about taking the chance to see what is out there in this crazy world and in our restless minds.Read this book because it will help you more than you can imagine and your energy will be restored.Relax, breathe and read:).Thank you Renee Paule ...more My overall impression when I first finished the book was that, although I\u2019d enjoyed it, there was something missing. Consequently I read back through and realised that what I was unconsciously hankering after were answers \u2013 exactly what the book set out to avoid! In places a little more explanation of a line of thought, or concept, could have been helpful and at the other extreme an idea occasionally felt a little \u2018over-egged.\u2019 But then that is the beauty of Ren\u00e9e\u2019s book \u2013 it really does make yo My overall impression when I first finished the book was that, although I\u2019d enjoyed it, there was something missing. Consequently I read back through and realised that what I was unconsciously hankering after were answers \u2013 exactly what the book set out to avoid! In places a little more explanation of a line of thought, or concept, could have been helpful and at the other extreme an idea occasionally felt a little \u2018over-egged.\u2019 But then that is the beauty of Ren\u00e9e\u2019s book \u2013 it really does make you think for yourself without feeding you the answers that are the result of another\u2019s experience. This is a book that underlines the importance of taking control of the self through being aware of one\u2019s thoughts, rather than being a blind slave to them. Of freeing oneself to see what is really happening, both in the individual mind and that of humankind in general. Top marks for being an enjoyable read that's truly about looking at and taking responsibility for the self, rather than being a slick, dumbed-down instructional manual that simply follows another\u2019s path. ...more So, I was glad when Renee selected me as a Beta Reader. Having received an advance copy, I was eager to jump straight in. I had read 'On the Other Hand' earlier and it had inspired me to look at my life from a different perspective. I was quite eager to read this and it didn't disappoint me. First of all, the illustrations were something to think about. Not just illustrations, but something which helped in thinking about everything more. The piece on social media is something new I have ever read So, I was glad when Renee selected me as a Beta Reader. Having received an advance copy, I was eager to jump straight in. I had read 'On the Other Hand' earlier and it had inspired me to look at my life from a different perspective. I was quite eager to read this and it didn't disappoint me. First of all, the illustrations were something to think about. Not just illustrations, but something which helped in thinking about everything more. The piece on social media is something new I have ever read. Read it with an open mind and you would realise what I am talking about. Even the title is something I have always mused over. It means some different every time I think about it. About the book, well, I love it... And if you wish to explore your life, go ahead and read it... <3 Neeraj ...more This book is a natural progression from the author's previous work, \"On the Other Hand.\" I found the book to be fascinating and it helped me to see aspects of myself that I did not like and how I could improve myself. The focus of this book is the 'Now', not the 'Past' or the 'Future' but what is happening right here at this moment. The moment we open this book we are invited to go on a journey with the author to learn about ourselves and what holds us back from our dreams and accomplishments. S This book is a natural progression from the author's previous work, \"On the Other Hand.\" I found the book to be fascinating and it helped me to see aspects of myself that I did not like and how I could improve myself. The focus of this book is the 'Now', not the 'Past' or the 'Future' but what is happening right here at this moment. The moment we open this book we are invited to go on a journey with the author to learn about ourselves and what holds us back from our dreams and accomplishments. Some of the lessons in this book are that we don't need others approval in order to feel self worth; we don't have to let negative persons or situations in our life rob us of joy and that Humanity can make huge changes for the better if only they, we, decide to make it happen. ...more I received an advanced copy of \u201cJust Around The Bend\u201d in return for a review. Are you ready to take a good deep look at yourself and your world? Are you ready to tackle all that the mind disseminates? If so then Renee Paule's \"Just Around The Bend\" is a must read. A brilliant follow on from her first book \"On The Other Hand\", it is an uncomplicated, thought provoking and insightful piece of writing. This is one of those rare books you will not want to close as each chapter simply whets your appeti I received an advanced copy of \u201cJust Around The Bend\u201d in return for a review. Are you ready to take a good deep look at yourself and your world? Are you ready to tackle all that the mind disseminates? If so then Renee Paule's \"Just Around The Bend\" is a must read. A brilliant follow on from her first book \"On The Other Hand\", it is an uncomplicated, thought provoking and insightful piece of writing. This is one of those rare books you will not want to close as each chapter simply whets your appetite for what comes next. However, each chapter also needs to be digested. I love the illustrations they really bring a smile to your face and are a great way to emphasise salient points. ...more This book is a book that I really enjoyed reading and as in her first book miss Ren\u00e9e helps us again to break out of our cells and to find out our way to open-mindedness and internal peace. I'm really grateful to miss Ren\u00e9e, her two books \"On the other Hand\" and \"Just Around the bend\" helped me make my own way of life regardless of everything and made me look at life from a different perspective. Thank you miss Ren\u00e9e and Everyone, you the ones reading my review, I recommend this book to you Chec This book is a book that I really enjoyed reading and as in her first book miss Ren\u00e9e helps us again to break out of our cells and to find out our way to open-mindedness and internal peace. I'm really grateful to miss Ren\u00e9e, her two books \"On the other Hand\" and \"Just Around the bend\" helped me make my own way of life regardless of everything and made me look at life from a different perspective. Thank you miss Ren\u00e9e and Everyone, you the ones reading my review, I recommend this book to you Check out my blog on boookuniverse.wordpress.com Mohamed :) ...more This is a emotional book and almost made me cry. The author talks about her suicide attempt and her father that wrote her a check afterwards in the hospital. I think this books deserve to be read by parents. There is a lot of humanity in there. first of all i want to say thank to renee. i receive this book savely anyway renee. sorry for to late to review your book. i dont mean that, i had many thing to do :) i just done read this book yesterday. this book are amazing. this book make you relaise what exaclly happened in your life. this book also giving you light about life, about how to make decition and my more. i want to say big thanks to renee cause she write the book. i love you so much renee. and thanks for the book again anyway. lo first of all i want to say thank to renee. i receive this book savely anyway renee. sorry for to late to review your book. i dont mean that, i had many thing to do :) i just done read this book yesterday. this book are amazing. this book make you relaise what exaclly happened in your life. this book also giving you light about life, about how to make decition and my more. i want to say big thanks to renee cause she write the book. i love you so much renee. and thanks for the book again anyway. love you ...more Renee Paule's second excursion into the literary world has resulted in the wonderful must read \u2018Just Around The Bend\u2019. This book draws you into exploring your world from a different perspective, taking you out of your comfort zone and encouraging you to look at the world through newly opened eyes. From the first page this is a book that becomes increasingly difficult to put down. I Love \u2018Dilly\u2019, brings a smile to my face and injects an element of humour. I received this book free as a beta reader, Another interesting read from Renee Paule. A frank look at some challenging aspects of life from a different viewpoint that leaves you thinking. Keep up the good work. Well worth a read.<---C>Ren\u00e9e Paule</---C><+++>Just Around The Bend: M\u00e1s o Menos</+++>", "Title": "Just Around The Bend: M\u00e1s o Menos"},
