{"Comments": "I mostly like this series. However, I'm certainly not a die hard \" Dresdenite \" from the Church of Harry . Dresden is NOT my literary BFF and,<---M> truth be told</---M>, spends far more time languishing under the heading OAA (<---B> Occasionally Annoying Acquaintance </---B>). I like the stories (so far), but that enjoyment comes with some mondo qualifications and some serious groans. However, before I rail against the main character's penchant for lame cheesy-flavored popCORNY, I'm going to begin with what I think are the I mostly like this series. However, I'm certainly not a die hard \" Dresdenite \" from the Church of Harry . Dresden is NOT my literary BFF and, truth be told, spends far more time languishing under the heading OAA ( Occasionally Annoying Acquaintance ). I like the stories (so far), but that enjoyment comes with some mondo qualifications and some serious groans. However, before I rail against the main character's penchant for lame cheesy-flavored popCORNY, I'm going to begin with what I think are the real bright spots of this book, and the series. THE SUPERB : The world-building and various supernatural factions are both TIPPY TOP NOTCH, and I would almost continue to read the series for that alone.<---F> Almost</---F>. From previous books (though mentioned or appearing in this book) we have: The White Counsel (Wizards), the Red Court, White Court and Jade Court (all vampires), the Realm of Fairy (dealt with extensively in the previous book, Summer Knight) and the Knights of the Cross (maybe my favorite group). In addition, several news groups/factions are introduced in this installment. My favorite of these are the Denarians, who I thought were definitely applause-worthy. Describing them would necessitate spoilers, but their background/origin warrants some kudos to Mr. Butcher. So....kudos. I also crushed on the Archive (a powerful, neutral character) and the Fellowship of St Giles. Despite the plethora of different races, Butcher handles their power and socio-political backgrounds very well, and he provides enough \"rules\" and \"limitations\" to keep the whole thing from getting silly. This aspect of the book, and the whole series for that matter, is a no-brainer 5 STAR EFFORT in my opinion. Related to the worldbuilding, but separate enough to warrant special mention is the magic system created for the series. Dresden\u2019s wizard powers are very well handled and never \"jump the shark\" into the realm of farce where you're left thinking he has a spell for everything. Like the worldbuilding, Harry's spells, wards and magical abilities are pretty well \u201cgrounded\u201d and explained, and this gives them enough realism to make their presence a compelling part of the series. Again, for this aspect of the book and the series, I would say 5 STARS ALL THE WAY. THE GOOD : The plot of the book is fast-paced, well written and engaging. The writing is, for the most part, good (with one exception\u2026see below), and the dialogue is decent to good (with one HUGE, GALACTIC-SIZED exception \u2026again see below). However, while the writing is good, it doesn't measure up to the quality of Butcher\u2019s other series, the Codex Alera. I don\u2019t know if this is because he spends more time on the other books, but the prose and dialogue in the Codex Alera just seems to me to be more polished. This may just be a matter of personal taste. THE BAD TO SHITTY TO DOWNRIGHT PAINFUL : Okay...so, here we are...time for the bad stuff. Unfortunately, my biggest gripe with the book, and the series, has to do with good old Harry himself, beginning with the \u201cdialogue\u201d exception I mentioned above. Now, I have no problems with sarcastic and wise-cracking main characters, especially in books that are meant to be \"light\" reads. Thus, for much of the time, I think Dresden's wise ass not-quite-wise-but-not-dumb-ass remarks are fine and I even sometimes enjoy them.... deep breath HOWEVER, when Harry is tied up and facing certain, brutal death/dismemberment, or confronted with a \"the world is ending\" scenario, then the \u201cI am not really taking this seriously\u201d jibes rocket into dumb-assville, and ruin all sense of dramatic tension. Even in a fairly \u201clight\u201d read, I find this problematic as I think the author wants me to feel the tension and suspense of those moments....I don't. Harry\u2019s reactions really take the air out of what is supposed to be pivotal moments of the narrative. I would LOVE, just once, to see Harry become truly enraged and threaten to shove his staff up some magi-being's poop shoot. But no, my desire for a raging MAD-ON goes unfulfilled leaving my anger sack full and very, very \"blue.\" Guys, we all know how painful that can be. Also loaded with much SUCKNESS is the way Harry is always going on about his being \u201cover protective\u201d of women, or \u201cnot always thinking rationally\u201d when it comes to women, or the \u201csucker for a pretty face\u201d moments. Holy gag-reflex-testers, Batman...enough already. These all to frequent moments make me just want to shake Harry until the douchy falls out of him. It isn't manly, it isn't chivalrous...It's just STUPID!! My final gripe is simply that, as many things as <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> is good to great at, writing a love scene is NOT ONE OF THEM. The 10 pages or so of this book in which Dresden and Susan are trapped in his place and \"getting down to business\" was NAUSEATING on a scale I have not experienced since the Kathy Bates nude scene in About Schmidt . Mr. Butcher, for the sake of your fans....no more (that goes for you too, Ms. Bates). Overall, I think the series has some real strengths. It just has \u201careas\u201d that annoy me enough to really burrow under my skin. I still like it, but it is precarious. 3.0 stars. ...more What I noticed right away after reading the first few chapters would be that the series has a routine. It starts of with Harry complaining about his broke life, then a lover appears or a new villain. It's not a bad routine, on the contrary I actually enjoy it. <---C>Harry Dresden</---C>'s life is really fascinating and adventure filled. The plot tried to be more action packed but ended up on the mild side. The new enemies presented were quite interesting but honestly were all over the place. They weren't intr What I noticed right away after reading the first few chapters would be that the series has a routine. It starts of with Harry complaining about his broke life, then a lover appears or a new villain. It's not a bad routine, on the contrary I actually enjoy it. Harry Dresden's life is really fascinating and adventure filled. The plot tried to be more action packed but ended up on the mild side. The new enemies presented were quite interesting but honestly were all over the place. They weren't introduced well enough to make a lasting statement. I liked them but they were all forgettable. I like characters that are awesome enough to be remembered. Harry Dresden himself is obviously unforgettable, but I'll need more than one to really enjoy the novel. Murphy and Michael are also old favorites, but I need new ones. I'm not fond of the Harry-Susan love team. I just don't see any love between them. I didn't like that this novel focused more on their relationship too, aside from the duels Harry had. Susan has this pretentious vibe that I never really liked right from the start. I'm hoping not to see her that much in the next novels. 3.5/5 stars. Not my favorite of the series, but at least it's still not the worst. This novel was enjoyable for some parts, but quite tiresome for the most. It was still good though, so I'm still recommending this. I can't wait to continue on with the series. ...more I really do love this series. This book was my least favorite but I did enjoy it a little. I loved the last four so I am excited to start the next one. <+++>Death Masks</+++> is the 5th in the series and I really have to say that I am so over with the war with the red court. In <+++>Death Masks</+++>, a vampire named Ortega challenges Harry to a duel that will end the war between the vampires and the wizards. Harry has no choice but to accept, and almost no hope of winning the duel. However he has another problem. A c I really do love this series. This book was my least favorite but I did enjoy it a little. I loved the last four so I am excited to start the next one. Death Masks is the 5th in the series and I really have to say that I am so over with the war with the red court. In Death Masks, a vampire named Ortega challenges Harry to a duel that will end the war between the vampires and the wizards. Harry has no choice but to accept, and almost no hope of winning the duel. However he has another problem. A catholic priest - who doesn't believe in magic - needs Harry's help in finding the Shroud of Turin, which stolen by a trio of thieves, on of which has turned up very dead. Harry traces the remaining two thieves to his hometown of Chicago. He also quickly finds out that he isn't the only one after them. A group of terrifying demons wants the shroud, and the demon leader wants Harry's soul too. Phew! Life is never easy for Harry, all he wants is to just do private investigations and earn a living. He realises that he must accept help from all of his friends, including three Holy knights, his police-officer friend, and even his half-vampire ex-girlfriend, Susan. The story is well-paced, the action well done, humour abounds in spite of grizzly events. Jim Butcher cleverly twists religious history and the occult, and builds on events from the previous books without you needing to have read them. Harry's world is increasingly complex, and he continues to grow as a character. However, I just couldn't say this is a 'wow' book for me - a few things irk me. Why is Harry the only Wizard doing anything - yes I know he is on the out as far as wizarding goes - but this is threatening the whole magical world, why let him do all the work? I hope there is less war and more investigations into creepy magical beings in the future books. ...more Poor Harry Dresden. You sweet, oddly sexy, powerful wizard. You just CAN'T catch a break! I adore this series and I adore listening to it on audio. I think James Marsters just keeps getting better and better. I can hear a wider range of voices in this one than in the previous books, and he is so SO DAMN PERFECT as Harry Dresden. I could listen to these books all day, every day. Interestingly, a lot is left hanging at the end of this book. I can't wait to see where the next few books take me! [4.5 Stars] The best one yet! Buddy at Buddies Books and Baubles with some Dresdanites 3.5 Who Else Could Want To Kill Harry Stars Five books in and the world and characters keep expanding a little at a time. I enjoy reading this series to a certain extent but the thing is Harry isn\u2019t the reason. Mostly I like all of the side characters more than him. Each doesn\u2019t get a lot of page time but the glimpses I see of them\u2026well usually the side character steals the show from Harry, at least for me. It isn\u2019t specifically Harry\u2019s fault Buddy at Buddies Books and Baubles with some Dresdanites 3.5 Who Else Could Want To Kill Harry Stars Five books in and the world and characters keep expanding a little at a time. I enjoy reading this series to a certain extent but the thing is Harry isn\u2019t the reason. Mostly I like all of the side characters more than him. Each doesn\u2019t get a lot of page time but the glimpses I see of them\u2026well usually the side character steals the show from Harry, at least for me. It isn\u2019t specifically Harry\u2019s fault I mean sure he is a wizard with a snappy wit, pop culture references and a keen sense of humor in the face of danger but here is a list of the side characters that make an appearance. BOB - Although he is a little out of it this time and didn\u2019t get his normal page time for banter the spirit/lab assistant to Harry housed in a skull almost always steals the show when on page. Micheal - *Swoon* I totally crush on The Fist of God. Good men are hard to find and he is the best of them. Anyone with a holy sword and Crusader Armor is interesting in my book. Molly - The Fourteen year old daughter of the Fist of God. She was hilarious, a little bit of a romantic and full of enough teenage rebellion to be interesting but not annoying she was one of my favorite new additions. \u201cOhhhh,\u201d Molly said wisely. \u201cThose are fun-time handcuffs, not bad-time handcuffs. I gotcha.\u201d \u201cNo!\u201d I protested. \u201cAnd how the hell would you know about fun-time handcuffs anyway? You\u2019re like ten.\u201d She snorted. \u201cFourteen.\u201d \u201cWhatever, too young.\u201d \u201cInternet,\u201d she said sagely. \u201cExpanding the frontiers of adolescent knowledge.\u201d Shiro and Sanya - Holy Crusaders and Michael\u2019s equals Shiro is like the Mr. Miyagi of the book much knowledge and a great sense of devotion to his cause while Sanya is very different from what you would expect of a holy crusader of God. IVY - Also known as the archive. Imagine all of the world\u2019s knowledge in a 7 year old girl. I\u2019m thinking of the daughter in Dune, slightly creepy but infinitely powerful . I hope she shows up in future books as she was really interesting. \u201cYou know how to use magic?\u201d I asked. \u201cI prefer calculus.\u201d \u201cBut you can do it.\u201d \u201cYes.\u201d Yikes. If the reaction of my wards was any indication, it meant that she was at least as strong as any Wizard of the White Council. Probably stronger. But if that was true\u2026 \u201cIf you know that much,\u201d I said, \u201cif you are that powerful, why did you hire a bodyguard to bring you here?\u201d \u201cMy feet don\u2019t reach the pedals.\u201d Waldo Butters - Medical examiner who has caught on to the supernaturalness of some of the some of the corpses coming in lately. A little on the unusual side, I can tell I\u2019m going to love him in this series. There are so many more including staples such as Murphy, Charity, Marcone, Thomas and Susan. There are some and new additions including the Oracle, Ortega, the Fallen and Nicodemus. So many people for Harry to interact with it gets staggering at times. While I really like most of the characters of this series I sometimes find the plotting kind of thrown together. It sometimes feels jumbled crashing together until we get to the end. Don\u2019t get me wrong I\u2019m entertained the entire time but I feel like I have a difficult time following parts of the plot occasionally. That said though Harry is an easy guy to root for even if the entire world seems out to get him and really it seems like the ENTIRE world IS out to get him. In this corner, one missing Shroud, one impossibly and thoroughly dead corpse, one dedicated and deadly vampire warlord, three holy knights, twenty-nine fallen angels, and a partridge in a pear tree. And in the opposite corner, one tired, bruised, underpaid professional wizard, threatened by his allies and about to get dumped by his would-be girlfriend for John Q. Humdrum Seriously, tell me that isn\u2019t a lot to deal with. I will give it up to J.B. for the way he pushes the expectations of people\u2019s roles in the story. Sanya in particular is a Warrior for God but\u2026..he isn\u2019t quite what you would expect at all. I loved the twist to his character. The inclusion of the 30 pieces of silver that were paid to Judas as well was a fantastic re-imagining of how to incorporate Christian lore into story. I also very much liked the addition of a duel between Harry and a Duke of the Red Court and how the rules for that were incorporated. There are a ton of great ideas in the story. Possible even too many which is why at times it felt slightly jumbled to me at times. Still right now this is a series I could read a few and walk away for a few months then read a few more. I haven\u2019t fallen in love with Harry\u2019s character enough yet to want to plow through 15 books before I move onto something else like has happened to me with a few of the other series I really love. Still Harry is a good dude to hang out with and go on a ride into crazytown. Also you can feel better about your life because I guarantee he has way more problems with romance, people trying to kill him and just paying the rent than you do. ...more The story continues here and stays true to form. The Dresden books are some of my favorite novels...bar none, hands down. These are great brain candy. They're pure escapism, total Urban Fantasy fun, comic drama that do several things very well. Each novel tells it's own story making them individually readable and enjoyable while in the back ground evidence and details mount to tell a larger more involved tale. Here we open up with Harry broke (not that unusual) and in a spot he isn't all that happ The story continues here and stays true to form. The Dresden books are some of my favorite novels...bar none, hands down. These are great brain candy. They're pure escapism, total Urban Fantasy fun, comic drama that do several things very well. Each novel tells it's own story making them individually readable and enjoyable while in the back ground evidence and details mount to tell a larger more involved tale. Here we open up with Harry broke (not that unusual) and in a spot he isn't all that happy about...a TV studio. He's on the Larry Fowler show (seems like it might be something like the old Jerry Springer show???)as Chicago's only consulting wizard . The producer offered double his usual fee. He's trying to control his emotions lest he accidentally destroy thousands of dollars worth of TV equipment. Things seem to be going pretty well...till a major Red Court vamp noble shows up as another guest (known to the world as a debunker of paranormal beliefs of course, not a vampire). We'll not go into the damage done when Harry loses a bit of emotional control. One of the other guests is a representative from the Vatican. \"Father Vincent\" also debunks the paranormal. The priest and the Vampire are not really in town to appear on Larry Fowler of course (big surprise, right?)..and the real reasons they are in town have to do with Harry (well, if they didn't we wouldn't have a book). You see the vampire war is dragging on a bit... and Harry has been recommended to the Priest Vincent as an investigator. What does the vampire (Duke Ortega) want? What does \"Father Vincent\" want Harry to find? That would be telling. My recommendation? Don't miss any of the Dresden books. I know some aren't as taken with them as I, fine. But try them yourself. I'm not here to run down objections and complaints about the novels. While there may be some flaws and they may not be to the taste of some I think most will find this book (these books) at least greatly enjoyable and some, like me fantastic. The series opens wonderfully and gets better as it goes with the books seeming to me to hit their stride around volume 3 or 4 and continuing to get better as they go. Highest brain candy recommendation. ...more Reasons to read this book. 1. Harry Dresden is a believable character. He learns, he grows, but he does not gain a new power every book. In fact, he doesn't seem to gain any power in any of the books. He gains awareness and knowledge. 2. Susan is cool, but flawed like Harry. Love her. 3. Godfather with a helicopter. 4. One of the best love/sex scenes I have ever read. Butcher could write a good romance novel. 5. Good female detective who has smarts. 6. Vampires with bite. 7. Butcher knows his myth, le Reasons to read this book. 1. Harry Dresden is a believable character. He learns, he grows, but he does not gain a new power every book. In fact, he doesn't seem to gain any power in any of the books. He gains awareness and knowledge. 2. Susan is cool, but flawed like Harry. Love her. 3. Godfather with a helicopter. 4. One of the best love/sex scenes I have ever read. Butcher could write a good romance novel. 5. Good female detective who has smarts. 6. Vampires with bite. 7. Butcher knows his myth, legends, and religion. 8. An agnostic black Russian knight. 9. A woman who knows how to make armor. 10. A good cat. 11. Most importantly, an ending that works in terms of the rules of the series. ...more My sister and I listened to this on Audiobook in the car. I had to return the CDs to the library, but fortunately, they had the Playaway, so we were able to finish this. I loved James Marsters' narration. He doesn't sound a thing like Spike and I'm glad. He showed a wonderful vocal range, and he really gave life to Harry Dresden for me. He's really fantastic at accents and different inflections. He does women voices without them sounding cheesy or falsetto (which is a huge thing for me). I think My sister and I listened to this on Audiobook in the car. I had to return the CDs to the library, but fortunately, they had the Playaway, so we were able to finish this. I loved James Marsters' narration. He doesn't sound a thing like Spike and I'm glad. He showed a wonderful vocal range, and he really gave life to Harry Dresden for me. He's really fantastic at accents and different inflections. He does women voices without them sounding cheesy or falsetto (which is a huge thing for me). I think I will definitely have to listen to more of these on audiobooks. My sister had never read any of this series, and she really liked this. Of course, she loves James Marsters (and Spike), so that was a good way to suck her in. As far as the book, I really liked it. I think it could probably give this five stars if I wanted to be generous. I think the reason I didn't is because the story doesn't really wrap up to my satisfaction. I would have liked a lot more closure than I got. But it was a good follow-up to Summer Knight . Harry is a hero, but he doesn't ever seem to get that day in the sun or the resolution of his personal and private issues that you would hope for. Susan is back, and that was very cool. I think that her return was pivotal to the storyline, and the storyline in itself has a nice complexity to it in which various elements tie together very well. I can't say I was a huge fan of the Susan relationship, but it's treated well in this book, and there was a surprisingly steamy love scene that I wasn't expecting. I wonder if the author's wife is rubbing off on him (Shannon K. Butcher). I can see that there was genuine love between them, and I can't help hoping that works out in the future. I think that Harry gains a lot of personal growth in this book, acquiring new allies along the way, and realizing that there are people who really do believe the best of him and trust him to do the right thing. I know I am seriously behind in this series, because I tend to get behind in my reading of series. I actually wasn't lost, even though it had been years since I read Summer Knight, so that was nice. He also develops more nemeses, not like he needs them. Harry really does have a kiss my butt attitude that makes people hate his guts. But those people are usually jerks, so that's okay with me. I have heard things about Dresden being a sexist. I think listening to this on audio does reveal this flaw in his character. While I am not for sexism, I still like him a lot. I think that his sexism backfires on him because he allows his preconceived notions about women get him in trouble again and again. My hope is he will learn from his mistakes. Here's hoping. But despite this shortcoming and others, I count Harry as one of my favorite characters for many reasons. I think that even though Harry has some really obvious flaws, he's a good guy that I'm very fond of and I always look forward to spending time with him. Like most of the books in this series, the secondary characters are great. They add so much to the read. The Knights of the Cross (including Michael), Murphy, Susan, Martin, Susan's work companion who is on the surface very mild-mannered but is really kind of like Jack Reacher, Molly (Michael's daughter), his wife who hates Harry, and not to mention some truly despicable bad guys. I loved the Archive and her bodyguard Kincaid. I am ever a fan of authors with rich imaginations who can put that on the page in a readable fashion, and Jim Butcher has that in spades. The humor is great, and parts of these stories are genuinely scary and thrilling. And the action is top notch. I'm such a geek for urban fantasy and magic noir, this is very up my alley for that type of story. I have most of these in paperback, but I'm thinking about going back and listening to the first books on audiobook, just for fun. Overall rating: 4.5/5.0 stars ...more Reading in Saucy Wenches Book Club in October. I'm only two months behind on the series read. Another great outing from Harry Dresden. Susan was fantastic in this one and I really enjoyed seeing her again. Even if she is very changed from who she use to be. I think her development makes sense and I do hope she appears again in later novels. One of the delights of this series is that Dresden really can count on his friends and that his friends are there for him. Even if this sometimes leads to sadn Reading in Saucy Wenches Book Club in October. I'm only two months behind on the series read. Another great outing from Harry Dresden. Susan was fantastic in this one and I really enjoyed seeing her again. Even if she is very changed from who she use to be. I think her development makes sense and I do hope she appears again in later novels. One of the delights of this series is that Dresden really can count on his friends and that his friends are there for him. Even if this sometimes leads to sadness and heartbreak. Harry survived for another adventure. Marcone,why is he now a grey character? I'm not meant to like him and yet now a teeny bit of me does. Dresden can be pretty sneaky when he needs to be to find things out and the reveal about Marcone definitely put him in a new light. I'll definitely be continuing with this series. Recommended for lovers of urban fantasy and a good adventure. ...more Pretty good stuff right here, but damn it, I wish Harry would stop being so helpless and foolish 80% of the time ;__; He's been \"weak\" in comparison to the challenges he has faced (at least he outsmarts them in other areas, and he has friends and connections to help him), so I've been hoping he could finally have a bloody level-up. I never actually wrote a review of this book the first time around, just a few quick sentences. I don't remember why. I was probably just being lazy. This is what I wrote back in December 2010: \"I'm still waiting to be knocked off my feet by this series, but this book was still pretty fun. Also, Susan was way less annoying, ditto for Gentleman Johnny Marcone. The best part was when Thomas offered to high-five Ortega right before the duel. There needs to be more Thomas.\" I still hold to what I said I never actually wrote a review of this book the first time around, just a few quick sentences. I don't remember why. I was probably just being lazy. This is what I wrote back in December 2010: \"I'm still waiting to be knocked off my feet by this series, but this book was still pretty fun. Also, Susan was way less annoying, ditto for Gentleman Johnny Marcone. The best part was when Thomas offered to high-five Ortega right before the duel. There needs to be more Thomas.\" I still hold to what I said about Thomas, but oh man, re-reading this was unexpectedly pleasurable. I knew going into this re-read of the whole series that I would most likely enjoy the first three books more (which did happen), but I didn't really think about how I would feel about the ones after that. I guess I just assumed I would feel the same about them, maybe catch a few pieces of foreshadowing, that sort of thing. But there was just so much stuff in here that has later relevance, and I didn't care about ANY OF IT the first time through. Stuff that happens in this book: \u2022A priest hires Harry to find the Shroud of Turin, yes THE Shroud of Turin, after it was stolen by a group of thieves. \u2022A man is found dead with evidence showing he was killed by multiple fast-acting diseases at the same time, many of them (like the Black Death) long gone from the world. \u2022Susan shows back up to collect her things and quit her job, and to say goodbye to Harry in a more permanent fashion. \u2022One of Johnny Marcone's thugs tries to kill Harry outside of a television studio. \u2022Harry is challenged to a duel by a Red Court vampire. Said vampire, Count Paolo Ortega, wishes to stop the war with the White Council (most likely to start it up again in the future when they have more resources), and killing Harry is the only way to do it. \u2022Demonic beings called the Denarians start showing up all over the place. They used to be human, but have been possessed by fallen angels (The Fallen, as the characters call them) through coin talismans. There are thirty silver coins, each a piece of the thirty silvers Judas received as payment for betraying Jesus. And they are after Harry. Not to kill him, but to turn him. \u2022Michael and his two fellow Knights of the Cross (Shiro and Sanya) are also faffing around, since killing Denarians (or, prefereably, saving the humans enslaved by the Denarians, is like, their main bag). \u2022Probably some other stuff, too. It's a lot. Spoilers for this book and for the rest of the series below, so proceed with caution. (view spoiler) [First, let's talk about Susan. What I was responding to in regards to Susan in that original review was that she takes a more active role here, and her character does something beyond being something Harry is obsessed with. Granted, she still largely fulfills that function, but she's also marginally more interesting due to her constant battle against becoming a full Red Court vampire, and in her association with the newly introduced Fellowship of St. Giles, a society whose members are all humans fighting against becoming vampires, who have dedicated their lives to taking down the Red Court. She is instrumental in helping Harry with both of his \"cases\" this book, saving him from himself and from others. What's still frustrating about her is that all of this is seen through Harry's POV, and he's more interested in being sexually attracted to her, and being sad they can't be together, which results in her still being a flat character I know almost nothing about. Thankfully, we won't hear from her again until Changes , and at that point, I'm much more favorably inclined towards her because of what's going on. Which reminds me, the first time through this, I was really put off by the sex scene. It seemed random and weird, and because I didn't care about Susan at all, seemed like Butcher just wanted Harry to get laid. Which, fine. But now knowing that their little tryst resulted in the birth of Maggie, I am more than fine with it. Harry's daughter entering his life is one of my favorite plot points of this series. Oh my God, that scene in Skin Game . URGGG TEARS. Here is a list of stuff that takes on way more significance now that I've read the whole series: \u2022I really didn't like the Denarians the first time through. No idea why. Perhaps they've grown on me now that they show up every five books. Also, their existence (and that of Lasciel) begets another favorite plot point, namely Harry's brain being pregnant with a spirit of intellect. \u2022I also wasn't a huge fan of anything to do with the Red Court/White Council war, also no idea why. Maybe I only like it now because I know how it ends (and oh, does it end). \u2022Thomas. Initially he was just a spot of humor and brightness, supposedly offered as a second by the White Court as some sort of insult to the Red. But it's clear, now that I know Thomas is Harry's half-brother, that Thomas was there very much of his own free will, with an eye to protecting Harry. He was probably pretending to be drunk. Thomas is way smarter than he acts. \u2022Hints about Harry's mother (and other family, not Thomas) that totally flew over my head the first time. \u2022All the stuff with Harry and the Denarian coin, and Harry questioning who he is and why he does what he does. Why DOES he allow himself to live in near poverty, shunned by his peers and the public alike? Will he ever come to terms with those darker urges? (Answer still forthcoming.) \u2022We meet Mortimer Lindquist the medium, a throwaway character who turns out to play a large role in Ghost Story . \u2022Harry's relationship with the Carpenters. He and Charity very much do not get along at the moment, but the seeds are planted for his future master/apprentice relationship with Molly. \u2022Harry and the Knights of the Cross. Though he isn't worthy to wield a sword himself, Harry will be tied to the Knights (and their swords) for the remainder of the series. \u2022Butters. (I mean, WHO KNEW WHERE THAT WOULD GO?) (hide spoiler) ] I mentioned in my review of Summer Knight that a lot of the series mythology really go going there, but really it was only the faerie half. The other stuff comes in Death Masks . You just don't know any of this will be important as you're reading it. Butcher certainly has issues as a writer*, but worldbuilding and knowing how to effectively use continuity is not one of them. *WHY CAN'T HARRY JUST HAVE A \"SAVING PEOPLE \" THING INSTEAD OF A GROSS \"SAVING WOMEN \" THING. WHY. IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SO EASY) In summation, this is one of those series that's not only better as it goes along, but that's better on re-read. I understand there are people who don't want to waste time giving a series more than a couple (or one, or not even one) chances, or who don't re-read (I don't understand that one at all). But if I would have thought like that, I would have missed out so hard on a series that, for the most part, gives back way more than the effort I put in. Sometimes it's worth it to be patient. ...more Good pace, interesting plot elements, new nasties along with some old ones, and great audio narration by James Masters. I particularly enjoyed Marsters' Russian accent for Sanya. He has really expanded his repertoire of voices since book one and I\u2019m digging it. I do appreciate how Butcher keeps building on the existing lore of the series. We learn a bit more about Harry (view spoiler) [ Harry\u2019s not a mortal!? And he has siblings somewhere! (hide spoiler) ] We get some new secret organisations, The Good pace, interesting plot elements, new nasties along with some old ones, and great audio narration by James Masters. I particularly enjoyed Marsters' Russian accent for Sanya. He has really expanded his repertoire of voices since book one and I\u2019m digging it. I do appreciate how Butcher keeps building on the existing lore of the series. We learn a bit more about Harry (view spoiler) [ Harry\u2019s not a mortal!? And he has siblings somewhere! (hide spoiler) ] We get some new secret organisations, The Order of the Blackened Denarius, with its accompanying monsters, The Denarians. There\u2019s also The Fellowship of St Giles (the patron saint of lepers). We are also introduced to a couple of other members of the Knights of the Cross \u2013 Yes Michael Carpenter is back with his trusty sword Ammoracchius. Also back is Susan, saucy as ever and good enough to eat...you. Yes, she\u2019s still partway to becoming vampire. In this book the war between the Red Court and the White Council is still raging, and Harry is still at the top of the Vampires\u2019 hit list. When the Red Court sends in its heaviest hitter, Harry is forced meet his enemies head on or risk losing everyone he cares about. But at the same time, a wizard still has to eat and pay bills, so when the Vatican shows up with a job for Harry offering real money (rather than the customary burning at the stake) our wizard for hire finds himself on the hunt for an artifact that will see him cross paths with things a whole lot worse than vampires. So why is this 3 stars instead of the customary 4? I had to have a bit of a think myself. All the plot elements are there and they\u2019re great. The characters are interesting. All the ingredients for a great recipe are there, so why did I come away feeling that things didn\u2019t quite gel together. After scratching my head for a bit it came to me; the two major arcs of the story never actually converge or service each other. There\u2019s the vampire story with Ortega and the duel, but that story had nothing to do with the main story with Nicodemus and the Denarians. Now I\u2019m going to call the Vampire story the side story, and I\u2019ll call the Denarian story the main story because that was where most the substance was. But the side story takes up a lot of the book, and it involves some interesting new characters like Kincaid and the Archive, but it just never services the main story! Which leaves the main story feeling a little lite. It\u2019s like I got two short stories pretending to be one. Anyway, I still enjoyed it. The new characters and villains were still very cool and I\u2019m really looking forward to seeing more of them as I continue in the series. I\u2019m also intrigued by the tidbit of extra lore we get about Harry himself. I can\u2019t stop now. 3 Stars. ...more I love Harry Dresden. He cracks me up! This guy is definitely a lovable loser. Everybody wants to kill him, and he's pretty much accepted that as his definition of normal. \"I get more threats before nine a.m. than most people get all day.\" ...the risk of imminent death just didn't hit me the same way it used to... Susan asked, \"Do you really think you can win?\" \"Yeah. Hell, Ortega is only the third or fourth most disturbing thing I've tangled with today.\" \"But even if you do win, what does it change I love Harry Dresden. He cracks me up! This guy is definitely a lovable loser. Everybody wants to kill him, and he's pretty much accepted that as his definition of normal. \"I get more threats before nine a.m. than most people get all day.\" ...the risk of imminent death just didn't hit me the same way it used to... Susan asked, \"Do you really think you can win?\" \"Yeah. Hell, Ortega is only the third or fourth most disturbing thing I've tangled with today.\" \"But even if you do win, what does it change?\" \"Me getting killed now. That way, I get to be killed later tonight instead.\" He's an optimist! Harry also has his own unique brand of style. \"I am the foremost collector of velvet Elvii in the city of Chicago,\" I said. \"Elvii?\" Marcone inquired. \"The plural could be Elvises, I guess...I usually go with the Latin plural.\" \"You've really got class, Dresden,\" Susan said. \"Class oozes out my every orifice,\" I agreed. So, in this book Harry is trying to find the stolen Shroud of Turin. Yes, that Shroud of Turin. Although, I guess there is only one, so maybe you weren't wondering which Shroud of Turin I meant. Anyway, it's been stolen. And, there are a LOT of people who want to get their hands on it, including the church, a mobster, and a bunch of demons. So, it's not going to be an easy job. Plus, there is the small matter of a prophecy of Harry's death if he goes after the Shroud. But, get in line, Death-Prophecy, there are a bunch of vampires who wanted to kill Harry first! And they have sent one of their war lords to offer Harry a deal: have a duel to the death with him and the matter is settled. If Harry doesn't agree, they will continue trying to kill him anyway, warring with the White Council, and kill all of his friends. So, Harry has to duel. A blood-thirsty vampire war-lord. That's not going to go well. The good news is that he will probably die way before duel day because of all of the demons who are trying to kill him. As for Harry's (non-existent) love-life, we get Susan showing back up to give him the \"it's not you, it's me\" speech. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're infected with the vampire virus and find his blood too enticing to be with him. We get it, Edward! So, Harry is single and ready to mingle now. I am hoping there is a future for him and Murphy - who is the best female character in this series. We'll see what happens there. ...more 7/10 This was a reread of sorts for me, the little lady was at this point in the series is doing them on audiobook and we had a journey up to Edinburgh so decided to do it together. I was keen to hear James Marsters narrate and when I originally read this book I was on holiday in New England and my reading concentration was way down. The story is interesting enough but it's not up in the top reaches of the series, in fact due to the stellar stories in this series this could be seen as one of the w 7/10 This was a reread of sorts for me, the little lady was at this point in the series is doing them on audiobook and we had a journey up to Edinburgh so decided to do it together. I was keen to hear James Marsters narrate and when I originally read this book I was on holiday in New England and my reading concentration was way down. The story is interesting enough but it's not up in the top reaches of the series, in fact due to the stellar stories in this series this could be seen as one of the weakest. Rereading this though there are a few key things that happen which do take shape and have repercussions down the line, also the introduction to polka listening Butters. However, the dual storyline just seemed quite jumbled at times and could have been more streamlined. I've not found this an issue before so it could be that I just didn't find the storylines as interesting. Now for the audiobook. What the frick?! This is by far the best audiobook I've listened to. Marsters is outstanding in the role of narrator and storyteller. His tone and style fit this story perfectly. I loved the way he would shout out the spells and the way he inflicted the right amount of sarcasm when required. I would highly recommend the audiobooks to anyone, it definitely enhanced the story. The only thing I would mention is it took me a little while to get used to him not sounding like Spike from Buffy. All told, it's a good story but not the best in the series. I look forward to picking the series back up in a couple of weeks but it'll be in kindle format. Will I pine for James Marsters? Time will tell. ...more WHOA. Was this book awesome or what?! Previously I was just a casual Dresden Files-fan, I really liked the earlier books (Summer Knight, Grave Peril, Fool Moon, Storm Front), but I didn't outright loved them... Well, all that has changed now! From the very first page to the last one, this one got my attention hook-line-sinker. The book was action-packed, hair-raising thrilling, nailbitingly suspenseful, wildly humorous with mindblowing twists-turns and a GREAT villain. But above all, it had a br WHOA. Was this book awesome or what?! Previously I was just a casual Dresden Files-fan, I really liked the earlier books (Summer Knight, Grave Peril, Fool Moon, Storm Front), but I didn't outright loved them... Well, all that has changed now! From the very first page to the last one, this one got my attention hook-line-sinker. The book was action-packed, hair-raising thrilling, nailbitingly suspenseful, wildly humorous with mindblowing twists-turns and a GREAT villain. But above all, it had a brilliant engrossing story. And what can I say about Harry Dresden, the ultimate wisecrackin' Badass that hadn't been said already? He's the perfect tragic hero that the readers can relate and empathized with, but who also has such a large mouth and an acid-tongue that he just can't help himself! He's that classic underdog character who found himself at the short end of stick every single time, and every thing that can possibly (and impossibly) go wrong, does go wrong against him (its almost like fate always consciously trying to make poor Harry suffer :'( ) But each & every time somehow, someway Harry pushes himself up and comes out on top only with his sheer stubbornness and irresistible wit intact (oh, and also his leather duster!). Yeah, you just can't help but love the guy. Anyway, all in all, this was a fantastic thrillride through the magical, deadly, beautiful, funny and LOVABLE universe of Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden. I can't wait to start the next book Blood Rites , and I'm so frekkin' glad that I still have ten more books to read of this mindblowing series! ...more The reason why I enjoy Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden series is that each book is jammed packed full of \"stuff.\" What do I mean by \"stuff?\" It's all the creatures, magic, mythology, and action all thrown in one book. So much happens in this book and I can always count on Harry's unique way of deal with adversity (and adversaries). I think these books work because they capture the gritty world of city life and juxtapose it with the paranormal. Chicago makes such a great backdrop to this world. In Dea The reason why I enjoy Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden series is that each book is jammed packed full of \"stuff.\" What do I mean by \"stuff?\" It's all the creatures, magic, mythology, and action all thrown in one book. So much happens in this book and I can always count on Harry's unique way of deal with adversity (and adversaries). I think these books work because they capture the gritty world of city life and juxtapose it with the paranormal. Chicago makes such a great backdrop to this world. In Death Masks Harry is asked to recover a valuable artifact stolen from the church. The object in question? The Shroud of Turin, no less. It seems that it has some magical properties. In addition, the Red Court vampires have memories like elephants and they want Harry dead. One of their own, Paolo Ortega challenges Harry to a duel to the death. The dialogue in this book is witty. There are some great lines and jokes. I loved the addition of The Archive (or Ivy as Harry calls her). Some of my favorite characters were back - yeah, Michael. Go, Murphy! Susan - enough said, you'll need to read the book to find out. So you have art thieves, demons, vampires, outrageous TV hosts, the Knights, Bob the Skull, Johnny Marcone and his thugs, and the beat up Blue Beetle. Who could ask for anything more? ...more Getting back to this series is ways fun. Harry as usual is back in trouble by no fault of his own, of course. A couple of new characters are added and his relationship with Michael deepens. The content may be of a religious nature but really was not at all about religion, but more about duty and good over evil. This addition to the series does not get tied up in a neat little bow at the end so we will probably be seeing these characters again, who now, have been added to Harry's ever growing lis Getting back to this series is ways fun. Harry as usual is back in trouble by no fault of his own, of course. A couple of new characters are added and his relationship with Michael deepens. The content may be of a religious nature but really was not at all about religion, but more about duty and good over evil. This addition to the series does not get tied up in a neat little bow at the end so we will probably be seeing these characters again, who now, have been added to Harry's ever growing list of enemies. Marsters narration keeps getting better in every book. ...more EDIT: Enjoyed it way more this time as I knew how subtly Butcher dropped clues about Harry's past and future here and there. 3.5 Fifth book of the series. A new case and problems from the previous books to solve. So Harry\u2019s journey covers a dual challenge from vampire Ortega (red court battle), finding the stolen shroud (case), return of his half-vampire girlfriend Susan (surprise) and his fight with supernatural creatures (his usual stuff). Michael made his came back in the book with other two kni EDIT: Enjoyed it way more this time as I knew how subtly Butcher dropped clues about Harry's past and future here and there. 3.5 Fifth book of the series. A new case and problems from the previous books to solve. So Harry\u2019s journey covers a dual challenge from vampire Ortega (red court battle), finding the stolen shroud (case), return of his half-vampire girlfriend Susan (surprise) and his fight with supernatural creatures (his usual stuff). Michael made his came back in the book with other two knights. Denarians i.e. the supernatural creatures were absolute cruel and evil. The base of the story was finding the stolen shroud. Gentleman John Marcone\u2019s appearance in the book was the other surprise and him helping Harry in retrieving the Shroud was even more fascinating. Characters other than Harry were also pretty good though I missed Murphy in this edition. Story was good and fast paced. Full of action and surprises. Hats off to Mr Butcher for creating such a complex yet beautiful supernatural world. ...more Best Dresden Yet. The people who told me that the series just keeps getting better and better were not lying. I loved this one. So many different storylines converged here, and it was SO EXCITING! I seriously didn't want to put this one down. That is all. Wait, no... The only thing I think would have improved this book would be to scrap the recap of past books and the way the world in the series is. This is book 5... Pretty sure I get it that Harry's a wizard by now. Otherwise, I seriously reall Best Dresden Yet. The people who told me that the series just keeps getting better and better were not lying. I loved this one. So many different storylines converged here, and it was SO EXCITING! I seriously didn't want to put this one down. That is all. Wait, no... The only thing I think would have improved this book would be to scrap the recap of past books and the way the world in the series is. This is book 5... Pretty sure I get it that Harry's a wizard by now. Otherwise, I seriously really and truly loved this and cannot wait to see where the series goes from here. NOW that is all. ...more Fantastic! I have heard regularly that Jim Butcher's Dresden Files series only really kicks off from the 3rd, 4th or 5th book, depending on the opinion giver, but damn! Book 5 really reached a whole new level of awesomeness when compared to its predecessors. This book was action packed, funny, well written and kept me guessing as to how it all would end. What more could a reader ask for? Suffice it to say that I'm diving straight into the next one. In fact, I already paged to the first chapter bef Fantastic! I have heard regularly that Jim Butcher's Dresden Files series only really kicks off from the 3rd, 4th or 5th book, depending on the opinion giver, but damn! Book 5 really reached a whole new level of awesomeness when compared to its predecessors. This book was action packed, funny, well written and kept me guessing as to how it all would end. What more could a reader ask for? Suffice it to say that I'm diving straight into the next one. In fact, I already paged to the first chapter before even starting this review. ...more Harry is back in the fifth installment of The Dresden Files and the stake seem higher than ever. He is commissioned by a priest to recover the missing Shroud of Turin, but on top of that, he is in a battle with the Red Court. The vampires still want to see him dead after what he did to the Red Court and a vampire named Ortega has challenged him to a duel to the death. This was an interesting installment. I really enjoy Jim Butchers work and when I am in a slump reading I always find myself gravit Harry is back in the fifth installment of The Dresden Files and the stake seem higher than ever. He is commissioned by a priest to recover the missing Shroud of Turin, but on top of that, he is in a battle with the Red Court. The vampires still want to see him dead after what he did to the Red Court and a vampire named Ortega has challenged him to a duel to the death. This was an interesting installment. I really enjoy Jim Butchers work and when I am in a slump reading I always find myself gravitating towards The Dresden Files. There is just something about the series that captivates me. Let it be the fast paced style of the book, the noir style, or the one liners that make me smirk - there is always some form of trust that I will walk away enjoying what I got. I love Harry and his development is progressing within the series. I also enjoy the repeat appearance of the Knights of the Cross and Murphy. We seemed to have missed out on Bob in this book, which breaks my heart a little, but no big deal. I love Harry and I love his approach to his world with his humor. I also adore the way he seems to care about the people close to him, even if it gets him almost killed like all the time. The book has a familiar motion that seems to follow Jim Butcher's style of writing, but I don't hate it. There is a lot going on, a lot. Storylines intertwine, old characters come out to play, new characters reveal themselves, and the world continues to build on quite nicely. I was a bit confused by the ending and how Harry found out who the bad guy is, but that can stem from the fact that I picked up the book in the middle after months of it just sitting on my shelf. Also, this one felt a bit more darker. Harry was dealing with demons and sacrifices and there was a bit of gruesomeness that left me cringing. Despite all that, i really had a fun ride and I continue my love and enjoyment of this series. Memorable Quotes \u201cIt came charging toward me, several hundred pounds of angry-looking monster, and I did the only thing any reasonable wizard could have done. I turned around and ran like hell.\u201d \u201cHow long have you been a Wiccan?' 'A what?' 'A pagan. A witch.' 'I'm not a witch,' I said, glancing out the door. 'I'm a wizard.' Sanya frowned. 'What is the difference?' 'Wizard has a Z' He looked at me blankly. 'No one appreciates me.' I muttered.\u201d \"Michael, are you wearing the armor?\" \"I am wearing the armor,\" Michael said. \"And the cloak.\" \"Hello, Michael. We're going to an airport. The Kind with metal detectors. This review was originally posted on Night Owl Book Cafe ...more This series continues to find interesting new ways for Harry to find trouble. He really just wants a quiet life investigating minor paranormal problems but the war between the White Council of wizards and the Red Court vampires is building up and on top of that a major religious artifact has been stolen and Harry has been hired to find it. There are some serious new bad guys - the Denarians, also looking for the religious artifact and happy to torture and kill anyone standing in their way. Harry This series continues to find interesting new ways for Harry to find trouble. He really just wants a quiet life investigating minor paranormal problems but the war between the White Council of wizards and the Red Court vampires is building up and on top of that a major religious artifact has been stolen and Harry has been hired to find it. There are some serious new bad guys - the Denarians, also looking for the religious artifact and happy to torture and kill anyone standing in their way. Harry's old friend Michael is back at work along with two other Knights of the Cross and Harry's old nemesis, Marcone is involved as well. On top of that, Harry's girlfriend Susan, who is part way through transforming into a vampire, is back in town. Once again, Butcher maintains a relentless pace of high tension as Harry fights off Vampires, Denarians and other nasties and tries to avoid being bitten by Susan. Great fun! ...more I keep hearing that these books turn the corner from being fun thrill rides that are easy to read, and into something with much deeper (or perhaps grander) scope. Maybe so, but this one was very much on the thrill ride side of things. That's not bad at all, and I enjoyed this book. But it still felt like really good popcorn. So, it was exactly what I was expecting. Except, I'm expecting these books to surpass my expectations at some point, and it didn't do that. (There's a nice paradox in there I keep hearing that these books turn the corner from being fun thrill rides that are easy to read, and into something with much deeper (or perhaps grander) scope. Maybe so, but this one was very much on the thrill ride side of things. That's not bad at all, and I enjoyed this book. But it still felt like really good popcorn. So, it was exactly what I was expecting. Except, I'm expecting these books to surpass my expectations at some point, and it didn't do that. (There's a nice paradox in there for anyone who wants to dig it out.) My main issue with the book stems from what is also probably the coolest thing in the book: the Denarians. These are really amped up villains, and Butcher does them really well. But their back story troubles me. Each of them has acquired a possessed coin from the loot that was given to Judas Iscariot for betraying Jesus. They are possessed, quite literally it seems, by fallen angels. The idea is really cool, but it makes me wonder whether, in Butcher's world, there are any false superstitions. First we had, wizards, vampires, and demons from the Nevernever. Add to this three varieties of werewolf, and Fairy Queens and other wee folk. Now we get the story of the bible also being genuine, including the fall of the angels, the Christ story, and the shroud of Turin. It makes me wonder whether and when the introduction of new types of supernatural stuff will end. It also poses an interesting problem for the characters. If the Judas story and the shroud are real, then it seems rather boneheaded for anyone in the know not to join Michael in his faith. But it seems that no-one does, and not because of any deniability. Butcher confronts this head on by having a knight of the cross who professes to be an atheist. When Harry challenges him on this, there's a very funny interchange between them. But while Butcher acknowledges the issue, he doesn't actually solve it. Also, I wonder if people realize how blasphemous Butcher is being by taking the bible story seriously. He is putting it on exactly the same footing as the stories of Fairy Queens, werewolves, and vampires. Not exactly the exalted station that most conservative Christians would want. The story itself is probably tighter than the previous books. I like the way Harry's ongoing relationships are developing, especially with Murph and Marcone. And I still like Harry. I get tired of him making deprecating comparisons of himself to James Bond. The only similarity I see is the forced, and usually unfunny, wisecracking after moments of extreme violence. I also think its the wrong comparison. Butcher is doing a mash-up of genres, but it is not fantasy and 007 stuff. Rather, these books feel much more like Philip Marlowe is a wizard. They owe much more to Chandler than to Fleming. After each of these books, I know that sometime I will pick up the next one. And that hasn't changed yet. But I still have not read one that has made me feel like I need to read the next right away. ...more Executive Summary: To me this is where the series stops being so formulaic and starts to get really intersting. I really enjoyed re-visiting this one. Audio book: James Marsters gets better with each book. His Russian and Japanese accents are enjoyable in this one. Full Review While the book still follows the format of Harry gets a case and mayhem ensues, we at least break from the mysterious attractive female bit. Someone has stolen the Shroud of Turin, and apparently fled to Chicago with it. The Executive Summary: To me this is where the series stops being so formulaic and starts to get really intersting. I really enjoyed re-visiting this one. Audio book: James Marsters gets better with each book. His Russian and Japanese accents are enjoyable in this one. Full Review While the book still follows the format of Harry gets a case and mayhem ensues, we at least break from the mysterious attractive female bit. Someone has stolen the Shroud of Turin, and apparently fled to Chicago with it. The Vatican has hired Harry to help track it down. In this book we get to meet the remaining Knights of the Cross Shiro the accidental Baptist (thank you Elvis Presley), and Sayno the Russian Atheist. We also meet some of my favorite baddies in the series, Order of the Blackened Denarius. I've seen complaints that this book suffers from the dual plot lines, but I don't find it an issue. I equate this to what many TV shows do. You have your on-going season story arc mingled in with story for that particular episode. Things are continuing to build and Dresden's focus is split. It's hard to talk more about the book without getting into spoilers, but like most books in the series, it's a quick and fun read. ...more It gets harder and harder to review UF series, because I feel like I am just saying the same things over and over. What I will say is, up to this point I wasn't sure what was wrong with me. Everyone, and I seriously mean everyone, goes on about how this is one of the best series out there. Well, previous to Death Masks, I didn't see it. It was enjoyable sure, good characters, nice plot, but I had read other UF series that ripped my guts out more. I think I just didn't connect to Harry the way I w It gets harder and harder to review UF series, because I feel like I am just saying the same things over and over. What I will say is, up to this point I wasn't sure what was wrong with me. Everyone, and I seriously mean everyone, goes on about how this is one of the best series out there. Well, previous to Death Masks, I didn't see it. It was enjoyable sure, good characters, nice plot, but I had read other UF series that ripped my guts out more. I think I just didn't connect to Harry the way I was supposed to. I thought there was something wrong with ME. Until this book. Guess what? I cried! Rarely do I cry in an Urban Fantasy series. Feel adrenaline, sure. Edge of my seat action, oh yeah. Not cried though. So, when one of these books does make me cry I take notice. Death Masks was seriously good. So good I read it in 2 days. So good that I'm going to be moving onto the next book far faster than I anticipated. ...more 3.5 stars. I love this series. It's fun, it's fast-paced and the world Jim Butcher created is amazing. I thought this installment was a bit more adult than the previous books. I definitely won't wait as long to start with the next in the series. The story: Professional wizard Harry Dresden finds his life spiralling out of control when the Red Court of Vampires' champion sets out to kill him, professional hit men use him for target practice, the Shroud of Turin goes missing, he becomes involved in 3.5 stars. I love this series. It's fun, it's fast-paced and the world Jim Butcher created is amazing. I thought this installment was a bit more adult than the previous books. I definitely won't wait as long to start with the next in the series. The story: Professional wizard Harry Dresden finds his life spiralling out of control when the Red Court of Vampires' champion sets out to kill him, professional hit men use him for target practice, the Shroud of Turin goes missing, he becomes involved in a murder investigation, and his ex-girlfriend returns. ...more Harry Dresden is a Private Investigator with a twist; he is also a wizard and his investigations, one gathers, are more often than not related to magical, occult or supernatural phenomena. Regularly described as 'fast paced' this book certainly is. In fact, in this novel the cases, demons, magical attacks and so on come so thick and fast that Harry does not get a single good nights sleep or solid chicken dinner in the whole 413 pages. A priest hires him to find the stolen shroud of Turin, demons Harry Dresden is a Private Investigator with a twist; he is also a wizard and his investigations, one gathers, are more often than not related to magical, occult or supernatural phenomena. Regularly described as 'fast paced' this book certainly is. In fact, in this novel the cases, demons, magical attacks and so on come so thick and fast that Harry does not get a single good nights sleep or solid chicken dinner in the whole 413 pages. A priest hires him to find the stolen shroud of Turin, demons are after him and so are mundane gangsters. A war between a shadowy 'White council' of wizards and a 'red court' of vampires (though there are plenty of other colour coded vampire courts, apparently) will be ended only if Harry enters a duel with a fabulously old and dangerous vampire, a duel he cannot survive! Well, of course he can, this is book #5 but there are at least nine more on the library shelf, so of course he survives. He then goes straight on to the grand finale with demons... So, yes, very fast paced. An enjoyable supernatural series which has been repeatedly recommended to me by a variety of people. I liked it but was not blown away. Perhaps if it had been the first supernatural PI series I had encountered I would have been more thrilled, hard to say but I rather suspect not, there are other, much better (to my mind) similar series. Harry Dresden is the stereotypical PI; he is smart talking, gets himself into way too much trouble and then out again rather too easily, he is messy, he is all the things one has come to expect from such characters and there is not much more to him except the wizardry that we do not see that much of really. He is a fun vehicle for the story, but not much more and with the fast pace of the different plot lines there is not really room for much more. This is ok, it is a style of writing, it is what it is. The surrounding characters are a decently interesting and well conceived set and the background of Harry's world is obviously detailed and quite well set out. The novel did not seem to suffer at all from the fact that I was reading it out of sequence. Would certainly recommend it to anyone who is mad keen on supernatural stories mixed with a bit of weirdness. ...more Death Masks, as you\u2019re aware by now, is the fifth instalment in the bestselling Dresden Files series. It\u2019s the longest one-author-written series that I\u2019ve reviewed on the blog so far, even with the fact that I\u2019m only five books in and have reviewed only four of them, including this one. You\u2019d think one would be tired of Harry Dresden, wizard Private Investigator by now, but no \u2013 Butcher manages to create new and enthralling challenges for Dresden, plus introducing one of the deadliest villains t Death Masks, as you\u2019re aware by now, is the fifth instalment in the bestselling Dresden Files series. It\u2019s the longest one-author-written series that I\u2019ve reviewed on the blog so far, even with the fact that I\u2019m only five books in and have reviewed only four of them, including this one. You\u2019d think one would be tired of Harry Dresden, wizard Private Investigator by now, but no \u2013 Butcher manages to create new and enthralling challenges for Dresden, plus introducing one of the deadliest villains that the Dresden Files has seen so far. With most Dresden Files novels, Death Masks begins with Harry in a dark place. He\u2019s broke, and has resorted to going on TV \u2013 The Larry Fowler show, where he runs into the Red Court Vampire\u2019s Champion, who\u2019s looking to duel Harry, with his death meaning the end of the Vampire/Wizard war. And that\u2019s not the only thing he\u2019s got to deal with, oh no. Professional hit-men are using Harry as target practice, a handless/headless corpse of the Chicago police that needs identifying, and the Missing Shroud of Turin. On the plus side, business is good. On the downside, this could be the last adventure for Harry Dresden. And, on top of all that, Harry\u2019s ex girlfriend, Susan returns to Chicago, still a semi-vampire, and now has a new man in her life. This looks to be one of the most complex Dresden novels yet, and with multiple story plots overlapping, I wondered how Butcher would conclude this all in just one novel. I must say though, that he pulls it off spectacularly, and even includes an incident involving The Ride of the Valkyries by Wagner, adding to the humorous side of The Dresden Files. It also appears that Harry\u2019s character is developing, there appears to be not one use of \u201cHell\u2019s Bells\u201d in the novel at all, unless I missed it. Death Masks also get across the fact that the Dresden Files have to be read in chronological order. You can\u2019t just jump in, for example at this book, if you haven\u2019t read the previous novels, unlike the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child which I\u2019ve been reading recently, and also unlike the Alex Cross novels by James Patterson. We learn about what motivates the Red Court to go to war with the wizards, and we learn about the Knights of the Cross (with more than just Michael appearing for this adventure), and the mysterious Denarians. And, the characters also have as much depth as the world that Butcher has created. Susan, Marcone, Dresden, Sanya, Shiro, these characters, all key to the plot of Death Masks and none of them a waste of space. Murphy\u2019s here as well, as it wouldn\u2019t be a Dresden Files without at least one bicker between her and Chicago\u2019s only wizarding Private Investigator. The plot moves along at a very fast pace and Butcher manages to tie in all the various threads without leaving you lost with no idea as to what\u2019s going on. However, despite that, there may be, for some readers at least, too much going on. It\u2019s like The Wedding of River Song, the concluding episode of Doctor Who Series 6. I said a couple of sentences ago this: \u201cWithout leaving you lost with no idea as to what\u2019s going on\u201d, but there are some parts in the novel that will perhaps have you overwhelmed, but hey \u2013 let\u2019s move on, because I\u2019m beginning to contradict myself. And contradicting\u2019s bad. Death Masks, as much as I want it to be, isn\u2019t perfect, and I think everybody has an issue here with Dresden\u2019s so-called chivalry when dealing with women. It\u2019s starting to get ridiculous, so let\u2019s hope this changes in Blood Rites, the next book in the series (see below for a complete list). I didn\u2019t think that things could perhaps increase the tension more than Summer Knight, but it appears that Butcher has, as mentioned earlier, truly raised the game, with Blood Rites looking as though it won\u2019t be able to match up to this. Blood Rites is the Rocky to Death Masks\u2019 Apollo Creed, if you get what I mean. A million to one shot at being better than Death Masks, and I personally can\u2019t wait to find out what happens next for Dresden and his band of Chicago allies. Despite the fact that you know Harry will eventually get hurt a lot midway through the novel, and the fact that you know he\u2019ll emerge on top, this novel will have you turning the pages very fast (like I did), in a desperate attempt to complete the novel. It\u2019s that engrossing. Verdict: 4.5/5 ...more Loved this book!!! If there is only one thing to say about this it would be that I loved this book. Each new chapter in the Dresden files have hooked me more and more, but this one (so far) is my favorite hands down. In this book Harry Dresden has even more crap heaped on his plate. Not only does the Red Court of Vampires want him dead, he is tasked with the challenge of recovering the Shroud of Turin. In the midst of all that he is challenged to a duel to the death, he accepts because he is hop Loved this book!!! If there is only one thing to say about this it would be that I loved this book. Each new chapter in the Dresden files have hooked me more and more, but this one (so far) is my favorite hands down. In this book Harry Dresden has even more crap heaped on his plate. Not only does the Red Court of Vampires want him dead, he is tasked with the challenge of recovering the Shroud of Turin. In the midst of all that he is challenged to a duel to the death, he accepts because he is hoping to end a war he started between the White council of Wizards and the Red Court of Vampires. To twist the knife just a bit more, Harry's girlfriend is avoiding him because of control issues. How can you not feel bad for this character? There are several characters returning in this novel and Michael is my favorite. He is not as prevalent in Death Masks as he was in earlier novels, but I like the almost brotherly relationship the two have without even trying. It was also interesting to see the struggle Harry faces working with is ex/not ex girlfriend throughout. I'm not a fan of romance thrown in to stories like this, but I was still pulling for these two characters to figure things out. Wonderfully written, and the sarcasm that makes Harry Dresden such an interesting character, was perfect in this and at times I couldn't hold back my chuckles, and cheers. I am not sure just how to put into words what I felt about this book. It was a wonderful ride and massively entertaining. This book pulled me out of my reading funk and I can't wait to continue the series. Love the series, Love the characters, and Jim Butcher wrote one of my favorite books with Death Masks. Read it, all I'm going to say. Updated Review for Spetember 2015 re-read at Brunner's Bookshelf ...more", "Title": "Death Masks"},
