{"Comments": "I hate that the first thing you see of a review is the number of stars it's given. Someone's feeling about a book is not easily reduced to a five-point scale. And even once that is done, how do I know what five stars means to you? How do you know what five stars means to me? For me, a five star book is a book that I believe is worth the time and energy you're going to spend reading it. If, (<---B>and this is key</---B>) you're into that sort of book. (Horror, Mystery, Fantasy, Hardcore Gothic Gypsy Steampunk I hate that the first thing you see of a review is the number of stars it's given. Someone's feeling about a book is not easily reduced to a five-point scale. And even once that is done, how do I know what five stars means to you? How do you know what five stars means to me? For me, a five star book is a book that I believe is worth the time and energy you're going to spend reading it. If, (and this is key) you're into that sort of book. (Horror, Mystery, Fantasy, Hardcore Gothic Gypsy Steampunk.) A six-star book, is a book that I believe is worth your time and energy even if it's *not* the sort of thing you're into. (Generally speaking, this is the sort of book I'll give a promotional blurb for.) Unfortunately, there isn't a six star option here on goodreads. Generally speaking, a four star book is one that irritates me or disappoints me in one or two moderate ways. A three star book has several moderate irritations,<---M> or one big one</---M>, or or something that was irritating all the way through. Keep in mind that I can be extraordinarily critical of my books. Things that irritate me might not ever even show up on your mental radar. Further complicating things is the fact that sometimes I'm willing to give a book a bonus star due to extenuating circumstances. If the writer is doing something new and exciting, for example. If they're trying something really difficult or if it's their first book, I'll often give an extra star. So.<---F> To the point</---F>. Did I enjoy this book? Yes. I didn't know there was a sequel to the Talisman until I saw this in an airport a week ago. I enjoyed reading it. Held my attention. Pleased me with its craft. Is it for everyone? No. So here's the breakdown. ** What I personally liked about this book: It was told in present tense, and done well. Not a lot of folks can pull that off. The narrator was almost an active character, almost like a tour guide through the story. He/she speaks directly to the reader at points, saying things like, \"Let's see what's going on over at the old mill...\" Again, it worked well. Extra points for that. Also, it was set in Wisconsin. Which is kinda fun for me. **What you might like about this book: Everything that you normally like about Steven King's stuff. Interesting characters. Alternate worlds. Nice tie-in with the Talisman and the Dark Tower stuff. Nice description. Nice special effects. Nice tension and suspense. Nice characterization. **What you might dislike about this book: It's a large, rambly story. A lot of the book is spent in atmospherics, developing non-essential characters, and digressions, rather than action and moving the story forward. The Talisman was a cool adventure story. A young boy goes out, explores a strange world on a quest to save his mom. This book isn't that. There's no real adventure. They don't even get into the other world until the last 80 pages or so. Children in danger. (I'm sensitive to this, having a kid now myself. It can be a dealbreaker for some folks.) Extreme potentially even gratuitous violence and gore. (But again, we're in the horror genre, so....) So there you go. Isn't that better than some arbitrary number of stars? Now you can make your own choice about whether you want to read it. Or not. It's up to you. ...more (This review was originally published in the Washington Post in 2001.) <+++>Black House</+++> is a novel of slippage. We learn about slippage (a secondary definition of which, we are told, helpfully, in the text, is the feeling that things in general have just gotten, or will shortly get, worse) at the beginning of the book as we travel, invisibly through the town of French Landing, Wisconsin, early in the morning, winding up in an abandoned shack where \u201climp flypaper ribbons hung invisible within the fur o (This review was originally published in the Washington Post in 2001.) <+++>Black House</+++> is a novel of slippage. We learn about slippage (a secondary definition of which, we are told, helpfully, in the text, is the feeling that things in general have just gotten, or will shortly get, worse) at the beginning of the book as we travel, invisibly through the town of French Landing, Wisconsin, early in the morning, winding up in an abandoned shack where \u201climp flypaper ribbons hung invisible within the fur of a thousand fly corpses\u201d and it is here that we encounter the mutilated body of ten-year-old Irma Freneau, and watch a dog attempt to eat her severed foot out from its running shoe. Irma is the latest victim of a serial killer whom the local paper has taken to calling the Fisherman, after Albert Fish, a real-life child-killer and cannibal. Not far from the shack, down a road, behind a no entry sign, is a house all painted black; and that house is a gateway to somewhere else. Slippage is what happens on the borders of things and places, and the town of French Landing is on many borders, one of which is the border between <---A>Stephen King</---A> country, and Peter Straub country. The plot itself will revolve around the struggle between two men: the murderous Fisherman, and our hero, <---C>Jack Sawyer</---C>, known locally as \u201cHollywood\u201d, a retired homicide detective from LA. Jack Sawyer retired young and came out to Wisconsin in search of peace and quiet. It is a truism and a genre obligation that retired cops in novels, even novels with slippage, must come out of retirement for their last case, and Jack does, although, as we know from the off, this will not be a simple police procedural or even a whodunnit (the identity of the Fisherman is given to us early in the text -- the \u201chook of his nose\u201d followed by the \u201cwormy lips\u201d are a dead giveaway, if we\u2019ve missed the hints about his awful deeds and secret pleasures); and it will have its roots in a previous novel. Those who remember The Talisman, Straub and King\u2019s first collaboration, have already met Jack Sawyer as a 12 year old boy who travelled a long way, across the US and across a distorted, magical version of America called the Territories, to find the Talisman that would save his dying mother\u2019s life. The Talisman was a fantasy with dark elements: a fat book that could comfortably have been even fatter, with a winning young hero named after Tom Sawyer. Black House is a sequel of sorts to The Talisman, although it also draws upon the mythology that King has been building in his Gunslinger sequence, and which surfaced most recently in his Hearts in Atlantis. It is a book that exists on the borders of genre \u2013 it\u2019s not a serial killer romance, although the Fisherman is unquestionably a superhuman serial killer possessed of (and by) strange powers. It is too dark to be a fantasy but too light, too deeply sunny, to be, at its heart, a horror novel. Here also we experience slippage. It can be a mistake to play hunt-the-author in any collaborative text. Collaborations work when two authors find a single voice for a story, and fail when they do not, and King and Straub create a mutual style that is clean and effective. It is knowing without being arch, and it does not read like either King or Straub. That there are dead giveaways in the text \u2013 the obscure jazz references that Straub delights in, for example, or some splattery scenes with a hedgeclipper that could only have been penned by King \u2013 is no help in the who-wrote-what game. (In fact I\u2019d be willing to bet that most of the jazz references come from King, out to amuse his co-author and confuse reviewers, and that Straub took his turn at wielding the clipper.) Initially, I found Jack Sawyer uncomfortable in his role as the book\u2019s hero as he is in his retirement: surrounded by a magnificent supporting cast of colourful characters, Jack comes off as almost too pure, too perfect; he might have wandered into this July Wisconsin-Hell-on Earth from a better place. But as I read on, I began to realise that in many ways Black House (only one vowel away from Bleak House, the foggy opening of which is quoted in the text) is a Victorian novel. The authors cited, quoted from, glossed, in the book are popular writers who once were read and are now both read and respected, particularly Dickens, Twain, and Poe. The characters, too, have a Dickensian quality to them. They are the forces of darkness \u2013 The Fisherman, Wendell Green the grasping newspaperman, Lord Malshun (Sauron as used-car salesman); forces of light \u2013 Jack Sawyer himself; Henry Leyden, the blind man with the many voices; the magnificently filthy brewer biker gang who call themselves the Hegelian Scum; brave Judy Marshall, who is being driven mad by her visions of the truth, and her son, Ty, who will become the Fisherman\u2019s victim, and on whose rescue the fate of the universe, quite literally, depends. And the plot, which roller-coasters forward through the Wisconsin July, has the easy comfortable quality of something built by two authors who are perfectly well aware of how good they are, even to the point of referring to themselves as a couple of \u201cscribbling fellows\u201d in the text. (\u201cAlways scribble, scribble, eh Mr. King?\u201d) Sometimes the collaborative process has its downside; on occasion the characters feel like counters being pushed back and forth across a board, and there is a final plot twist which smacks less of inevitability than it does of the authors checking off the last item on their to-do list. The use of the present tense, which could too easily get wearing over 600 pages, for the most part keeps the narrative voice supple, informal, and fresh, although it can, on occasion, make one feel as if one is reading a film script \u2013 and there is a sequence when Irma\u2019s body is found, and the authors retread the same half hour from a number of points of view, in which it actively becomes a handicap. Such quibbles aside, in Black House one is watching two master-craftsmen, both at the top of their game, collaborating, with every evidence of enormous enjoyment, on a summery heartland gothic. The book is hugely pleasurable, and repays a reader in search of horror, adventure, or of any of the other joys, both light and dark, one can get from the best work of either of these two \u201cscribbling fellows\u201d. Whether King and Straub will reconvene for a final installment in another fifteen years, or whether Jack Sawyer\u2019s tale has been subsumed into King\u2019s Gunslinger series only time will tell. Either way, it is hard not to look forward to the eventual outcome. ...more Espectacular secuela de El Talism\u00e1n , m\u00e1s madura, m\u00e1s literaria, m\u00e1s cerca del coraz\u00f3n de lo que significa la verdadera ficci\u00f3n. Muchas veces se lo sit\u00faa a King en el grupo de autores comerciales que \u00fanicamente entretienen. Ficci\u00f3n vac\u00eda, vulgar, mutilada. No obstante, la gente que solo ve la cara ordinaria de los libros de King es gente precipitada que evita pensar en la lectura. No niego que tenga obras que sean as\u00ed ( El cazador de sue\u00f1os , Posesi\u00f3n , Cell , entre otras), sin embargo, el arte popul Espectacular secuela de El Talism\u00e1n , m\u00e1s madura, m\u00e1s literaria, m\u00e1s cerca del coraz\u00f3n de lo que significa la verdadera ficci\u00f3n. Muchas veces se lo sit\u00faa a King en el grupo de autores comerciales que \u00fanicamente entretienen. Ficci\u00f3n vac\u00eda, vulgar, mutilada. No obstante, la gente que solo ve la cara ordinaria de los libros de King es gente precipitada que evita pensar en la lectura. No niego que tenga obras que sean as\u00ed ( El cazador de sue\u00f1os , Posesi\u00f3n , Cell , entre otras), sin embargo, el arte popular no siempre es malo o b\u00e1sico. En ocasiones, puede encerrar m\u00e1s verdad que un t\u00edtulo catalogado como \"serio\". No voy a entrar en detalles, pero algunas novelas de King que se ajustan a esa definici\u00f3n pueden ser Apocalipsis , It , Carrie y, c\u00f3mo no, Black House . \u00bfQu\u00e9 es lo que le da seriedad a esta obra? Sus personajes, lo m\u00e1s importante, en mi opini\u00f3n, de una historia. Cada una de las personalidades que desfilan en este libro tienen mucho m\u00e1s que acciones para dar, y eso es de lo m\u00e1s admirable que puede alcanzar un autor. A trav\u00e9s de Black House , King y Straub no nos hablan, no nos gritan ni nos susurran, nos cantan. Black House es una hermosa canci\u00f3n que nos relata los microcosmos de los habitantes de un peque\u00f1o pueblo rodeado de miserias. Hay libros que no pueden (ni deben) ser narrados convencionalmente, sino que tienen que ser contados desde un lado m\u00e1s profundo, especial, tan especial como las complejidades de las soledades humanas. Es por eso que Black House es una brisa fresca en una lluvia de literatura superficial y de entretenimiento barato. Black House logra llegar a lugares que la ficci\u00f3n mediocre no es capaz ni de so\u00f1ar; logra liberarnos, la redenci\u00f3n de lo que cre\u00edamos incomprensible, una caricia de alguien que al fin, al fin, al fin entiende. ...more It's been a long time since I read this book. I remember reading it when it first came out, when I was in my late teens, and really enjoying it, but it's clear that I forgot sooo much about this book. I remember this one having more to do with the Dark Tower - but just how much, and in what detail surprised me. I almost wish that I hadn't read it now, that I'd waited until later on in my upcoming Dark Tower re-read with my bookclub, so I could read it at a more appropriate place within the Dark It's been a long time since I read this book. I remember reading it when it first came out, when I was in my late teens, and really enjoying it, but it's clear that I forgot sooo much about this book. I remember this one having more to do with the Dark Tower - but just how much, and in what detail surprised me. I almost wish that I hadn't read it now, that I'd waited until later on in my upcoming Dark Tower re-read with my bookclub, so I could read it at a more appropriate place within the Dark Tower timeline. But oh well. Sometimes one must live with the choices that are made. It's not really fair to call this book a sequel to The Talisman. I don't know what else to call it, because it IS that... but it sets the expectation that it will be similar to The Talisman, and it's not at all that. Talisman was an adventure, a quest, and yes, there was some dark and grim stuff in there (The Elroy Thing, Sunlight Gardener, Morgan & Morgan, etc) and but it never felt hopelessly grim and depraved. This does. Not that I'm complaining, I loved it. But this is the evil twin that has been kept in the attic and fed fish heads making its appearance after 20 years. It came from the same stock, but it's not friendly or altogether sane. This is a dark book. It's a slow burn of a book. It's a character study book. It's a police-procedural-in-hell book. It's a Dark Tower book. It's a Stephen King book... so I don't know why anyone would expect anything less than the previous statements. We pick back up with Jack Sawyer 20 years after we left him, and he has made a career and a life for himself as a homicide detective. He's forgotten - or blocked - all memories of his previous quest to save his mother, and has tried to live as normal and mundane a life as possible, despite the fact that he had touched the Talisman, and it conferred a lasting good luck on him that made everything he wanted to do that much easier. However, Jack has pulled the plug on his career after seeing a black man murdered on the Santa Monica Pier and it dredges up some memories of Speedy Parker - and he gets the hell out of dodge. Moves to an idyllic little town in Wisconsin and never plans to be a cop again. Except of course for the fact that Ka is a wheel and he doesn't have a choice. Someone is killing children in his new hometown, and of course nothing is ever what it seems when King's writing. What follows is a grim, but excellent story that builds and builds. We encounter some old friends, make a lot of new ones (and more than a few enemies as well) and shit gets real. And surreal. I don't really want to talk too much about the plot or the story because it's best if one experiences it for themselves. It is a great book, and can stand alone - though you will get much more out of this if you are familiar with Jack's history. I loved most of the characters in this book, even the ones I detested. Wendell Green and Charles Burnside, I'm looking at you. In that order. Charles is what he is, and he does what he does and there's no punishment harsh enough for that. But for some reason, my disgust and rage really homed in on Green, and I felt like he was the most shitty person in this whole book. All of the other evils were evil, pure and simple. They wanted to kill and destroy and tear down the walls of the universe because that's what evil does. But fucking Wendell Green is just a shitty human who thinks way too highly of himself and is out for blood because he thinks that he's King Shit of Turd Hill - only nobody else recognizes that yet. He's the Rita Skeeter of French Landing. The shitty fucker. Shoulda been left for the Sisters. Just sayin'. ANYWHO... I loved Henry and Beezer and Mouse and Jack and Dale. All of these guys make me so proud of them. Even Bear Girl, in her small, small bit part, impressed me and kind of broke my heart. She's a rock, that girl. I would have liked a bit more about Mr. Munshun and The Big Combination. I wanted a bit more about what that was FOR. Obviously it was EVIL... but just what was it powering? Still... this is a great book, if a little tiny bit draggy at times. Like I said, it's a slow burner of a book. It takes a bit of patience, as often King's books do, but I think they pay off in the end. If I had ONE complaint, it would be the romantic element of the story. Ugh. Come on. It was unnecessary and so obvious and blah blah blah skim. Yeah, I get it, she's pretty... he's pretty... they are \"interesting\" and now instalove. Gag me. Leave out the instalove, and I'm golden. I could not care less. Otherwise, excellent stuff. ...more In the early eighties, Stephen King and Peter Straub embarked on the ultimate coming-of-age tale. The Talisman easily solidified the collaboration's super status. Then, nearly two decades later, they returned to their literary roots. Black House portrays a different Jack Sawyer, now a semi-retired Los Angeles detective. He won't remain there much longer, though. By requesting his expertise in a major case, a colleague-turned-friend leads him to Wisconsin, where his life will be irrevocably alte In the early eighties, Stephen King and Peter Straub embarked on the ultimate coming-of-age tale. The Talisman easily solidified the collaboration's super status. Then, nearly two decades later, they returned to their literary roots. Black House portrays a different Jack Sawyer, now a semi-retired Los Angeles detective. He won't remain there much longer, though. By requesting his expertise in a major case, a colleague-turned-friend leads him to Wisconsin, where his life will be irrevocably altered...in numerous ways. Black House is very different from its predecessor. One of the most significant changes is the unique writing style. Almost everything's shown by way of what I like to call \"an eagle's eye\" view. This can be somewhat difficult and frustrating to adjust to, and I completely understand that critique. It's also a little slow at first. We're not actually reunited with Jack until the first 60 or so pages. My first time through the Coulee Country, I struggled with it a bit, too. But it being a King novel, I knew a big payoff was inevitable. And maintaining his \"I'm retired\" mindset, Jack is reluctant to aid the local police investigation of a string of grisly serial killings. It's only until a young boy is abducted that Jack agrees to assist the authorities. With the addition of a handful of eccentric characters (including the ever positive, delightful, and beloved Henry Lyden,) we're given recurring appearances of one or more characters from The Talisman. One new addition, named Charles Burnside, alludes to a less than pleasant childhood, leaving something to be desired. I wanted to know more. For instance, how exactly was he mistreated (presuming, of course, that was the case,) what were his parents like? Who were his parents? What events helped form the individual shown throughout the novel? More importantly, can he be empathized with, knowing what we do about him? Should we be expected to? I felt next to nothing for him, whatsoever. Unless my utter abhorrence of him is put into consideration. That particular emotion resonates in every fiber of my being. But if I may return briefly to the aforementioned alluding, my heart does go out to him. Though all too fleeting... How about his time in Chicago? He displays an abundance of scorn which tells the reader of his pent-up resentment. What specifically happened there, though? That being said, I love the duality of ol' \"burn, burn's\" voices and/or accents. (In general, it's always a pleasure to find elements of duality in fiction, but in this case, I think King and Straub pulled it off exceptionally well.) Reminiscent of some nefarious-yet equally skilled- ventriloquist, the sequence baffles the mind in every sense of the word. Additionally, I think I probably would have been more impacted if our killer had been less supernatural and more human. Why do I emphasize this point? Because, as of late, I've come to realize that villains who are more less fantastical (Rose Madder's Norman Daniels or The Shining's Jack Torrance, to name a few) have a much larger affect on me. I almost wish that the killer's identity had been withheld a bit longer. I believe if they'd done so, it would have created a much more suspenseful, biting-your-nails quality. Then again, the story's pretty dark and creepy. King and Straub probably weren't very interested in its mystery; contrarily, this story is very horror-orientated. All throughout, a recurring theme is explored in interesting way(s:) repressed memories. This literary technique is seen in multiple characters, primarily our protagonist, Jack Sawyer. On a related note, scientific studies indicate that particularly traumatic experiences often result in repression, as a defense mechanism. And speaking personally, I'm a firm believer. I can recall very little of my childhood. I'm not the only one, either. King and Straub said it best: \"Amnesia is merciful.\" Indeed. The final showdown (and the all-important journey toward that end,) felt slightly long-winded, but the psychological aspects almost demand it. As for the battle itself, I am torn. On the one hand, it is quite phenomenal. On the other, there's a comic book quality which renders it somewhat unrealistic. As a result, I'm left with many questions whose answers I'd be interested in learning. Then, due to unforeseen events, Jack is inadvertently transported back to his past, so to speak. By taking their story in this direction, King and Straub present a few very suspenseful closing pages. I was literally holding my anxious breath and hoping for the best. I also realized the depth of my love and admiration for this amazing man. And through certain revelations, things are left open. There simply MUST be a 3rd book!! Jack's story isn't complete. ...more Wow this book was, simply put, a mess and was very painful to read. Considering I totally enjoyed the Talisman, I expected this book to be just as mind capturing as its predecessor. I was very disappointed in just about the whole story. So it turned out to be 'just ok' for me. The first half was drawn out and very wordy. The coming together of all the characters was quite confusing as well. It seemed to take half of the book before the story even got remotely interesting. It would get good and th Wow this book was, simply put, a mess and was very painful to read. Considering I totally enjoyed the Talisman, I expected this book to be just as mind capturing as its predecessor. I was very disappointed in just about the whole story. So it turned out to be 'just ok' for me. The first half was drawn out and very wordy. The coming together of all the characters was quite confusing as well. It seemed to take half of the book before the story even got remotely interesting. It would get good and then would settle back into the wordiness that I found throughout most of the story. Once it did finally reach its peak I was so exhausted, I just wanted the story to end. However, I did enjoy several of the characters in the story. So that was the highlight of the book. If not for them This may not even have reached the 2 star rating I gave it. At the end of the book it felt like it was left pretty wide open for more Of Jack and his adventures in the territories. All I can say about that is I hope King and Straub give us a better tale than they did with Black House. ...more I loved The Talisman. I think I read it when I was 13 or 14. It was a great story about a boy who could cross worlds, and took on a quest to save his dying mom. There were scary parts, but nothing too bad. Also, the line between King's writing and Straub's writing was pretty blurred. Either they shared the load, or one of them wrote while the other edited. I dunno, I could only hear one voice. Years later, I listened to the audiobook and it was still great. Black House is the sequel to The Talism I loved The Talisman. I think I read it when I was 13 or 14. It was a great story about a boy who could cross worlds, and took on a quest to save his dying mom. There were scary parts, but nothing too bad. Also, the line between King's writing and Straub's writing was pretty blurred. Either they shared the load, or one of them wrote while the other edited. I dunno, I could only hear one voice. Years later, I listened to the audiobook and it was still great. Black House is the sequel to The Talisman. Now, I've been supping on a heavy diet of King over the past few months. I spent about six months listening to the Dark Tower books, and I took some time to fill in a few gaps in the story (I read Insomnia, Rose Madder and Everything's Eventual). So, Uncle Steve's voice is really strong in my head. The Black House is almost all Straub. I can pick out the King parts, but those are brief nuggets of good in a soup of bleh. I hate the way that the book reads like a screenplay. I hate the second-person POV. I hate the fact that the book isn't about Jack Sawyer. Not really. I listened to about 8 hours and then I stopped. I had tried to read the paper book, but stopped at 30 pages. I don't know how it ends, and that upsets me a little. But not enough to keep pushing soup around looking for chicken. ...more Za po\u010detak, citat: https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1299... (view spoiler) [ Da li je iznena\u0111uju\u0107e to \u0161to je D\u017eek Sojer revolvera\u0161 u na\u0161em svetu? Ni najmanje. Da li iznena\u0111uje to \u0161to mu mo\u0107 njegovog isijavanja dopu\u0161ta da se prebacuje kroz svetove \u010dak i kao odrastao \u010dovek? Opet, ni najmanje. Da li me raduje dodirivanje sa Mra\u010dnom kulom? Apsolutno. (hide spoiler) ] Ono \u0161to bih odmah volela da izdvojim je dinamika same radnje koja je toliko dobra da se ni u jednom trenutku ne oseti zamor i tenzija razv Za po\u010detak, citat: https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1299... (view spoiler) [ Da li je iznena\u0111uju\u0107e to \u0161to je D\u017eek Sojer revolvera\u0161 u na\u0161em svetu? Ni najmanje. Da li iznena\u0111uje to \u0161to mu mo\u0107 njegovog isijavanja dopu\u0161ta da se prebacuje kroz svetove \u010dak i kao odrastao \u010dovek? Opet, ni najmanje. Da li me raduje dodirivanje sa Mra\u010dnom kulom? Apsolutno. (hide spoiler) ] Ono \u0161to bih odmah volela da izdvojim je dinamika same radnje koja je toliko dobra da se ni u jednom trenutku ne oseti zamor i tenzija razvla\u010denja pri\u010de, \u0161to je bila moja glavna zamerka Talismanu. Iako se radnja ponovo plete oko vi\u0161e likova i te\u010de kroz nekoliko paralelnih linija, naracija je izuzetna, a doga\u0111aji se smenjuju bez naglih i nelogi\u010dnih prekida. Smenjivanje razli\u010ditih motiva i efekata grabi \u010ditaoca i ne pu\u0161ta. Straub i King su nas odli\u010dno provozali - u jednom trenutku preovladava utisak tipi\u010dnog trilera da bi ga ubrzo zamenio jezivi doga\u0111aj pun grozomornih opisa. Ovakvo me\u0161anje motiva mo\u017ee biti ma\u010d sa sve o\u0161trice jer, ukoliko se pretera sa njihovim uplitanjem, sama pri\u010da gubi na verodostojnosti i konzistentnosti. Da, prvi utisak o pri\u010di jeste da je ovo po\u010detak samo jednog krimi\u0107a gde se re\u0161ava nekoliko slu\u010dajeva ubistava i jedna otmica, no, to je varka koja biva momentalno rabijena uplivom neverovatnih motiva koji se ne de\u0161avaju u svakodnevnom \u017eivotu. Radnja je toliko bogata da potiskuje i samu zavr\u0161nicu koja je sa jedne strane mo\u017eda mogla da bude spektakulernija, ali je u najmanju ruku zadovoljavaju\u0107a. ...more I absolutely loved this book. It's funny, because I picked it up immediately after reading The Talisman , and at first I was put off by the shift in tone and feel of this one. I wanted more Talisman style fantasy adventure, with the lovable young Jack Sawyer. What I got was a cold, detached, present-tense narrative that watched everything from above and showed a landscape that was totally out of place with the book I had just finished. This is supposed to be a sequel! But am I ever glad I stuck wi I absolutely loved this book. It's funny, because I picked it up immediately after reading The Talisman , and at first I was put off by the shift in tone and feel of this one. I wanted more Talisman style fantasy adventure, with the lovable young Jack Sawyer. What I got was a cold, detached, present-tense narrative that watched everything from above and showed a landscape that was totally out of place with the book I had just finished. This is supposed to be a sequel! But am I ever glad I stuck with it. The present voice grew to become a comfort, and as the narrator became more attached to the characters, so did I. This is still not the same book, but oh my, what a book it is. I said that The Talisman reminded me somewhat of a blend of Lord of the Rings and Tom Sawyer . Well, for this one, throw in some Silence of the Lambs and even a touch of The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. The villains were delightful in how wicked-evil they could be. The heroes were flawed, yes, but so human and I couldn't help but pull for them all the way. There were even a few times near the end where I wanted to pitch the book out the window. But I couldn't, as I had to keep reading until there was no more. I've heard that King and Straub are planning a third collaboration. After reading Black House I must say I hope they do. And I won't wait 9 years to read the next one, I can say that much. ...more Jack used to be a coppice-man and he is now settling into a new home in Wisconsin. He has been having strange dreams, no Speedy or flipping over for many years now he is trying to deal with the present. Jack is eventually forced out of retirement as a Coppiceman on trail of the Fisherman, flipping over again but to where? What does Speedy and black crow feathers have to do with the case? This is an engrossing page-turner written in a more faster momentum than The Talisman I am loving the adult Ja Jack used to be a coppice-man and he is now settling into a new home in Wisconsin. He has been having strange dreams, no Speedy or flipping over for many years now he is trying to deal with the present. Jack is eventually forced out of retirement as a Coppiceman on trail of the Fisherman, flipping over again but to where? What does Speedy and black crow feathers have to do with the case? This is an engrossing page-turner written in a more faster momentum than The Talisman I am loving the adult Jack! Plot is good, characters great this sequel is a dark tale. The Fisherman is baiting on Jack Sawyer, who alone has seen the territories, the territories and all they contain are involved somehow in theses wretched crimes, and he has been thrust into a drama of enoous consequence he cannot possibly grasp right now . The Tower , The Beam! Jack meets, the mother of the murdered boy, Judy. She is in a mental institute straight away he finds himself attracted to her beauty and persona, then she speaks of Faraway land where they have Jackrabbits the sizes of kangaroos the same place Jack has flipped to recently and now she entrusts him on a search for her son she says he is there in the Faraway Alive! Great stuff highly recommend to read after The Talisman and before The Dark Tower series will he catch The Fisherman? Save the boy and survive in The Territories? What fate lies for all? review also here ...more Stephen King and Peter Straub apparently decided that, since their last collaboration was so great , they would try to follow it with an astounding book that broke every single writing rule in existence. I believe the effort is a prime example of why those rules were made in the first place. Amen. I've read a number of Stephen King's books, enough to consider him one of my favorite authors; and out of everything I've read by him I enjoyed this, along with The Talisman, the most. This has encouraged me to start looking at some of Peter Straub's work as well; however I have yet to do so at this time. What this book has done is inspire me to get into his Dark Tower series, which I had been avoiding doing for some time because I'd heard that it was slow getting into. If that series has ever i I've read a number of Stephen King's books, enough to consider him one of my favorite authors; and out of everything I've read by him I enjoyed this, along with The Talisman, the most. This has encouraged me to start looking at some of Peter Straub's work as well; however I have yet to do so at this time. What this book has done is inspire me to get into his Dark Tower series, which I had been avoiding doing for some time because I'd heard that it was slow getting into. If that series has ever interested you I would suggest reading The Talisman and Black House as they will certainly be the tipping point to get you into that series. The world that King and Straub create in this book is a place that I think as kids we all envision exists, it's a fantasy world, but they make it real. You see much more of it in The Talisman, but I find that fitting because in Black House, the main character, Jack is no longer a thirteen year old boy; he's a grown man and he needs to rediscover this world outside our own. Something that I think is much harder for adults to do. This is a very different story then The Talisman, but it is so for a reason and I enjoyed seeing this little boy that I followed on his quest across country all grown up. His adventures as an adult should be different. Since reading this I've found references to this 'other world' in many of King's other books such as Lisley's Story, which I also greatly enjoyed, and smaller references in a number of other books. Every time I read one and I see that little reference it sucks me in and I want to know more about this place which the Talisman and Black House name the Territories. As usual with King, this book had its moments that literally sent chills down my spine. It didn't scare me to the point where I was afraid to sleep at night like Salem's Lot did when I was twelve, or even Bag of Bones, when I was twenty three. But, it did have one of the most disturbing villains I think King has ever created. This book was also my inspiration to dabble in the present tense with my writing. I find King and Straub tackle this tense perfectly and use it to build suspense. What you're reading is happening now and that makes it all feel so much more intense. Present tense can throw people off sometimes, but for this book I would throw away all preconceived notions that Novels should only be written in the past tense. For More Reviews by Lauryn April, go to http://laurynapril.blogspot.com ...more I don't even know what to say about this book, except for negative things. Not only did I not finish this book, but I am left completely disappointed in it. I was expecting the same fuel The Talisman had for me, which I really, really enjoyed. Boy, was I disappointed. Not only was the storyline disappointing, the writing for me, was a disaster in the slow as molasses department. I was excited about reading this with the friends I read it with, but now, I am left with really nothing nice to say a I don't even know what to say about this book, except for negative things. Not only did I not finish this book, but I am left completely disappointed in it. I was expecting the same fuel The Talisman had for me, which I really, really enjoyed. Boy, was I disappointed. Not only was the storyline disappointing, the writing for me, was a disaster in the slow as molasses department. I was excited about reading this with the friends I read it with, but now, I am left with really nothing nice to say about it. There were times the story would get mildly interesting, but for the most part, nothing held my attention, and even the slightly more interesting parts were boring. After reading over 250 pages, I put the book down in the hopes a break from it would help me to get back on track and give me some momentum to finish it. I found myself putting it back on my bookshelf and not even caring to know what happens. If there is a third installment, I really hope it is of the same quality as The Talisman instead of this mess. I guess I am just disappointed this came from King. ...more [I wrote this review in late 2001 for amazon.com shortly after reading Black House for the first time.] Hello, My Name Is TreeRider and I\u2019m a Stephen King-aholic. If you\u2019re a casual Stephen King (or Peter Straub) reader, or just a fan, this book may disappoint you. Likewise if you\u2019re expecting further adventures of Jack Sawyer in the Territories. Jack spends very little time in the Territories in Black House , and most of that comes near the end of the book. I prepped myself for Black House by rere [I wrote this review in late 2001 for amazon.com shortly after reading Black House for the first time.] Hello, My Name Is TreeRider and I\u2019m a Stephen King-aholic. If you\u2019re a casual Stephen King (or Peter Straub) reader, or just a fan, this book may disappoint you. Likewise if you\u2019re expecting further adventures of Jack Sawyer in the Territories. Jack spends very little time in the Territories in Black House , and most of that comes near the end of the book. I prepped myself for Black House by rereading The Talisman . If you\u2019re planning on doing this, too, I won\u2019t tell you to reconsider, because it\u2019s a very entertaining way to spend your time. And it can help you to understand the authors\u2019 otherwise obscure references to events of twenty years ago and their use of seemingly odd phrases like \u201cright here and now\u201d that appeared in the first book. But most folks can get their money\u2019s worth from Black House without spending a week (more or less) reading the 700+ page prequel to this novel. And if you\u2019re a hardcore horror nut, neither Talisman nor House is up your alley anyway. Another caveat: King experiments here with a different style of writing that may be off-putting to many readers. (It may not seem so different to Straub fans. I don\u2019t know; having read only The Talisman and Koko , I don\u2019t consider myself an authority on his works, but I can say I sensed more of his presence in House than I did in Talisman .) The authors use the simple present tense throughout Black House , and yet refer to past events in the past perfect tense, whereas simple past seems more correct to some of us English teachers. (King himself taught English before making a name for himself as a writer, so not all academicians will agree with me on this admittedly minor point.) And I found that their constant use of the first person plural, far from getting me personally involved, kept me from losing myself in the story. Reminded me of King\u2019s derogatory remarks about Harold Lauder\u2019s writing (second person present tense) in The Stand . Technical matters and other sniveling complaints aside, Black House is a great read. If you read King for his humor, as I do, you won\u2019t be disappointed here. His wry wit comes through on every page. And those of you who, like me, are bizarrely fascinated by his knack for the gross-out also will not feel left out. This story revolves around Jack\u2019s attempts to track down the serial killer of children in a small Wisconsin community who eats parts of his victims\u2019 bodies and then leaves notes to their parents describing the joy he had in consuming them. The Fisherman is one of Stephen King\u2019s sickest creations to date. For those of you die-hard King addicts (we know who we are) who are going through withdrawal while waiting so impatiently for your next fix of Dark Tower , wait no longer! See your local \u201cdealer\u201d (i.e., bookstore proprietor) today and shoot up with House . Not an official installment of his Dark Tower series, Black House is nonetheless a vehicle for King to give us some background info on gunslingers and the Crimson King. If you were secretly pleased (as I was) when King left horror behind in the late \u201980s to write modern-day myths, you will love this book. Don\u2019t imagine that his letting Mr. Straub into his private Dark Tower world is a sacrilege. The two together have some intriguing philosophical things to say about the metaphysics of that world\u2014indeed, about all worlds. (And in a nod to the late great mythologist Joseph Campbell, their suggestion that a minor character is using alcoholism to \u201cfollow her bliss\u201d is a hoot!) The best reason I can give you for buying Black House is that no one in their right minds would loan it to you. We know we\u2019d never get it back! ...more Man, what were these two thinking? There were things I liked about this novel. There were things that I didn't like. Like the first-person plural bird's eye point of view that nearly drove me mad. The first several chapters were extremely confusing because so much information was dumped on the reader all at once and it was hard to sort everything out. I liked getting to revisit \"Travelin' Jack\" to see what he was up to, but I feel that I would have understood Black House better if I had been more Man, what were these two thinking? There were things I liked about this novel. There were things that I didn't like. Like the first-person plural bird's eye point of view that nearly drove me mad. The first several chapters were extremely confusing because so much information was dumped on the reader all at once and it was hard to sort everything out. I liked getting to revisit \"Travelin' Jack\" to see what he was up to, but I feel that I would have understood Black House better if I had been more familiar with the Dark Tower series. My only forays into the Dark Tower universe are The Gunslinger and a short story that was a tie-in to the series (I forget the name of it) so a lot of the references were lost on me. Overall the story was okay. I just think it could have been told in a better way. ...more I'm not sure the book is really a five star novel, but sometimes a novel just resonates with you, and Black House did with me. I was emotionally involved with this book from the very beginning. Read Talisman first. I don't think this book would be have as effective if you haven't read Talisman. That said, I actually didn't like Talisman as much as Black House. But it did help me appreciate the main character, Jack Sawyer, that I really cared about him again when his story picks up again in Black H I'm not sure the book is really a five star novel, but sometimes a novel just resonates with you, and Black House did with me. I was emotionally involved with this book from the very beginning. Read Talisman first. I don't think this book would be have as effective if you haven't read Talisman. That said, I actually didn't like Talisman as much as Black House. But it did help me appreciate the main character, Jack Sawyer, that I really cared about him again when his story picks up again in Black House. One thing I'd appreciated about the book was that alot of horror cliches are generally avoided in this. Usually in a story where a 'terror' comes to a town, it seems like have the townsfolk are stupid, petty, or both. Generally, this was avoided and most of the characters were likeable and therefore the book was more enjoyable as a result. Highly recommended ...more I'd forgotten how I found out about this book but I never regretted having bought it because it's one the best thrillers ever written. I love it so much even after reading it thrice in the last 3 or 4 years and I'd happily recommend it to anyone who loves reading thrillers. This book is the collaborative efforts of two thriller maestros i.e Stephen King and Peter Straub. The Black House is actually the sequel to their first collaborative effort which is called 'The Talisman'. The first book chro I'd forgotten how I found out about this book but I never regretted having bought it because it's one the best thrillers ever written. I love it so much even after reading it thrice in the last 3 or 4 years and I'd happily recommend it to anyone who loves reading thrillers. This book is the collaborative efforts of two thriller maestros i.e Stephen King and Peter Straub. The Black House is actually the sequel to their first collaborative effort which is called 'The Talisman'. The first book chronicled the adventures of a young boy named Jack Sawyer whereas the sequel tells of the adventures of the adult Jack Sawyer. One thing for sure, once you start reading this book, you never want to put it down. The narrative is superb as are the book's characters, plots and human drama. Inspite of it's horrific and gruesome tale, it is a heart wrenching story as well. I never thought a thriller would made me sob like a baby and reduced me to an emotional wreck. But it worked and there's been nothing like this book since then that can do that to me. Certainly not a thriller anyway. I can't help but root for the protagonist right up to the end and wow...an ending with a twist so cleverly thought out that I was on the edge of my seat about to pee in my pants, the finale completely blew me off the beaten path. What more can a reader like me ask for? A brilliant beginning with an unexpected mind blowing ending and a masterpiece in story telling by two splendid writers of this genre. A must read for avid readers everywhere. Fav characters: Protagonist Jack Sawyer, Henry(the blind DJ), Dale (Coounty Chief Sherrif), Beezer and his burly biker gang, The Thunder 5 and Speedy Parkus (The Territories Gunslinger). A note of interest: The antagonist character is Burney 'Burn Burn', a crazed psycho killer who's one of the scariest, gruesome & most repulsive character ever invented. It's just so believable that you'll cringed outright. Urrggh! ...more I've read it pretty quick after it was published in the Netherlands, let me check.....2001. What I remember is that I was very exited when I learned this book was coming, cause I loved the other book the 2 authors wrote together: The Talisman. One of my favourites and it had a lot of connection to Stephen King's other world.(Waste Lands, Dark Tower World). Ah writing this down and checking all my SK books I am starting to feels homesick. I should call it SKsick? Back before I read English I felt l I've read it pretty quick after it was published in the Netherlands, let me check.....2001. What I remember is that I was very exited when I learned this book was coming, cause I loved the other book the 2 authors wrote together: The Talisman. One of my favourites and it had a lot of connection to Stephen King's other world.(Waste Lands, Dark Tower World). Ah writing this down and checking all my SK books I am starting to feels homesick. I should call it SKsick? Back before I read English I felt like I had not much choice so I've re read his books so many times. Now I have not read any of his old books for at least 13 years so that I am now feeling a bit of sk sick is not so weird after all. ;) Anyway. I remember that I very much liked it but I did not love it as I did The Talisman. This is one of few books by him that I've only read once so maybe it is time to re read The Talisman for the 3rd or 4th tie and then re read this one. Stephen King and Tolkien are 2 writers who managed to make me travel to very exceptional worlds. ...more from the start I wanted to burn this book but My God it was worth my patience my God! Long live Stephen King Dobrodo\u0161li u roditeljski ko\u0161mar! Ako nemate decu, seti\u0107ete se da ste to nekad bili. Travelin' Jack Sawyer is all grown up, but has forgotten the adventure of his youth. Now, after a short but brilliant career as a police detective in Los Angeles, Jack has retired to a small town in Wisconsin to try to escape a shock he cannot understand. But Jack has touched the Talisman, and the other side doesn't release those who know its secrets so easily. As a serial killer drives the local police to seek his help, Jack comes to realize that the true darkness that threatens this small town Travelin' Jack Sawyer is all grown up, but has forgotten the adventure of his youth. Now, after a short but brilliant career as a police detective in Los Angeles, Jack has retired to a small town in Wisconsin to try to escape a shock he cannot understand. But Jack has touched the Talisman, and the other side doesn't release those who know its secrets so easily. As a serial killer drives the local police to seek his help, Jack comes to realize that the true darkness that threatens this small town could spell catastrophe for this world and many beyond. THE BLACK HOUSE, by Stephen King and Peter Straub, is a sequel to THE TALISMAN, and you probably need to read the first one to get the most out of it. It also makes reference to the Dark Tower series, but not in a way that's integral to the plot. In fact, I almost found the Dark Tower references distracting \u2013 they came across in a wink-wink-nudge-nudge sort of way. The pacing in this book I found poor. High action scenes were weighted down with so much description I found myself skimming a lot to try to find out what was happening. After all the buildup, the final confrontation with the villain sped by and was over before I fully realized what was going on. The beginning of the book seemed to go on and on for chapters before anything happened, filled with minute details about the town and characters who didn't necessarily end up being central to the story. Like most King books, the characters were intricate and interesting. Even bit players had personality. Jack Sawyer is one of King's favorite characters, and it shows. Maybe a little too much. There were a couple of times where other characters made huge sacrifices for information that Jack figures out all on his own, diminishing their contributions. For me, that sucked out some of the drama of the book. The beginning was too long and the end was rushed, but the middle of the book was excellent. As the investigation unfolded and Jack re-discovered his own hidden talents, the writing was as rich and lush as I have come to expect from King. If that had held through the whole book, I would have recommended it without hesitation. As it is, this book as a whole doesn't quite pass muster. ...more I'm really enjoying this book so far. Talisman, wasn't my favorite Stephen King book, so I was a bit leery about a \"sequel\". It's interesting how diverse the opinions are on this book. People seem to either love it or almost hate it. I find that very interesting. I'm such a huge King fan, I couldn't imagine having such strong feelings against one of his books. Well, so far so good. :) I loved this book. And for someone that didn't love The Talisman as much, this book brought it all together for m I'm really enjoying this book so far. Talisman, wasn't my favorite Stephen King book, so I was a bit leery about a \"sequel\". It's interesting how diverse the opinions are on this book. People seem to either love it or almost hate it. I find that very interesting. I'm such a huge King fan, I couldn't imagine having such strong feelings against one of his books. Well, so far so good. :) I loved this book. And for someone that didn't love The Talisman as much, this book brought it all together for me and made me want to run out and reread The Talisman and read it again! There was so many hints and downright statements tying this to The Talisman and The Dark Tower books! Even with all that I know I forgot from The Talisman, what I caught excited me. Jack Sawyer is a troubled man, who moves out to the country to retire from a stressful career as a homicide detective. After much prodding from his friends both here and in other realms, not to mention his own subconscious he finally joins the investigation of a local child murderer, The Fisherman. Some things that I absolutely love about this book: The friendship between Jack and Henry (aka George Rathburn, Henry The Shake, etc). There is a father/son relationship here as well as friendship of peers despite the age difference. I loved the making of unlikely heroes in Beezer St. Pierre and Doc, the bikers, who suprise everyone with their intelligence and how widely read they are. I know Beezer's daughter was one of the first victim's of The Fisherman, but his bravery and commitment to see this through made me proud. And how can we forget Mouse and what ultimately happened to him. He held on in order to give Jack the information that he felt was important. I love the ending. And I hope Jack and Sophie live happily ever after! :) ...more Twenty years ago, a boy named Jack Sawyer traveled to a parallel universe called The Territories to save his mother and her Territories \"twinner\" from a premature and agonizing death that would have brought cataclysm to the other world. Now Jack is a retired Los Angeles homicide detective living in the nearly nonexistent hamlet of Tamarack, WI. He has no recollection of his adventures in the Territories and was compelled to leave the police force when an odd, happenstance event threatened to awa Twenty years ago, a boy named Jack Sawyer traveled to a parallel universe called The Territories to save his mother and her Territories \"twinner\" from a premature and agonizing death that would have brought cataclysm to the other world. Now Jack is a retired Los Angeles homicide detective living in the nearly nonexistent hamlet of Tamarack, WI. He has no recollection of his adventures in the Territories and was compelled to leave the police force when an odd, happenstance event threatened to awaken those memories. When a series of gruesome murders occur in western Wisconsin that are reminiscent of those committed several decades earlier by a real-life madman named Albert Fish, the killer is dubbed \"The Fisherman\" and Jack's buddy, the local chief of police, begs Jack to help his inexperienced force find him. But is this merely the work of a disturbed individual, or has a mysterious and malignant force been unleashed in this quiet town? What causes Jack's inexplicable waking dreams, if that is what they are, of robins' eggs and red feathers? It's almost as if someone is trying to tell him something. As that message becomes increasingly impossible to ignore, Jack is drawn back to the Territories and to his own hidden past, where he may find the soul-strength to enter a terrifying house at the end of a deserted track of forest, there to encounter the obscene and ferocious evils sheltered within it. This is a strong book (far stronger than more recent King works) and if you liked the Talisman then you enjoy this. The two authors gel together to create one of most unnerving books King has ever written. ...more From page one, through to the final sentence, this book had me Hooked! Jack sawyer is now a man, and a sexy one at that. \"Black House\" is the second collaboration between King and Straub, and is the sequel to their first novel, \"The Talisman\".If you've read Talisman and if you're one of King's Constant Readers \u00a0Black House answers lots of questions like what happened next to the Talisman's characters? who or what is the Crimson King? and it also, Tantalisingly raises lots of new ones, primarily r From page one, through to the final sentence, this book had me Hooked! Jack sawyer is now a man, and a sexy one at that. \"Black House\" is the second collaboration between King and Straub, and is the sequel to their first novel, \"The Talisman\".If you've read Talisman and if you're one of King's Constant Readers \u00a0Black House answers lots of questions like what happened next to the Talisman's characters? who or what is the Crimson King? and it also, Tantalisingly raises lots of new ones, primarily relating to King's Dark Tower series! However, if you're new to Stephen King, don't worry Black House is also rewarding in its own right, which keeps the reader turning pages as ex-cop Jack Sawyer races to find a young boy kidnapped by a serial killer. Sawyer must fight his personal demons, work with the town's residents and challenge a few bad guys (from this world and others), if he is to save the victim (turns out there could be a lot more at stake too...)Set in a small Winsconsin town, the novel features some superb characterisation and truly great narration from both legend authors. As a sequel, I believe \"Black House\" is superior to its predecessor it's not as firmly set in the fantasy genre. the book has a great plot and fast paced storyline. \u00a0just like it's 1st one. King and Straub will have all There readers desperate for more! ...more Un thriller muy largo y excesivo desarrollo de los personajes, con tintes de terror finalizando con explosi\u00f3n de fantas\u00eda. Tiene 90 % de King aunque aparezca dos autores. Entretiene y mucha calidad en la escritura. Si quit\u00e1semos algo de p\u00e1ginas ganar\u00eda en inter\u00e9s sin llegar a empalagar. La historia no es novedosa. Nos cuenta como se van cometiendo asesinatos de ni\u00f1o en que son amputados y digeridos por el estomago de alguien que se hace llamar el pescador. Poco a poco se ira investigando, y gracia Un thriller muy largo y excesivo desarrollo de los personajes, con tintes de terror finalizando con explosi\u00f3n de fantas\u00eda. Tiene 90 % de King aunque aparezca dos autores. Entretiene y mucha calidad en la escritura. Si quit\u00e1semos algo de p\u00e1ginas ganar\u00eda en inter\u00e9s sin llegar a empalagar. La historia no es novedosa. Nos cuenta como se van cometiendo asesinatos de ni\u00f1o en que son amputados y digeridos por el estomago de alguien que se hace llamar el pescador. Poco a poco se ira investigando, y gracias a la ayuda de Jack (protagonista del anterior libro) que ya es mayor, viajara a un mundo paralelo para solucionarlo. ...more Another prime example of why some sequels taste like half cooked food. The Talisman was an experience in itself, a novel where you could only speculate as to which author wrote which part. It was also a wonderful concoction of genres : horror, coming-of-age and fantasy. The sole reason why I decided to read the sequel was because I loved Talisman. Disappointment is the only emotion I have about this book. After the first hundred pages, it was a completely disinterested way in which I approached t Another prime example of why some sequels taste like half cooked food. The Talisman was an experience in itself, a novel where you could only speculate as to which author wrote which part. It was also a wonderful concoction of genres : horror, coming-of-age and fantasy. The sole reason why I decided to read the sequel was because I loved Talisman. Disappointment is the only emotion I have about this book. After the first hundred pages, it was a completely disinterested way in which I approached the book. When you realize that you do not care what the hell happens to the plot and the characters, it's high time you stopped reading the book. This was what happened to me. I liked the way the serial killer is created drawing parallels to Albert Fish but after the first few paragraphs it all goes down the drain. To be replaced by King's creations : The Dark Tower, The Crimson King...blah di blah blah !!! One book I couldn't finish and I don't intend to try again... ...more This was a hard book to read at first. The issue at stake is a serial killer who goes after children, small ones. As the mother of a small child, you can understand why it was a bit hard to read. I found it easier to read toward the middle, and the ending practically flew. This story picks up about 20 years after The Talisman leaves off. Jack Sawyer is now in his 30s and is a retired police detective. He's forgotten all about the journey he took back when he was 12 years old. It's an interesting This was a hard book to read at first. The issue at stake is a serial killer who goes after children, small ones. As the mother of a small child, you can understand why it was a bit hard to read. I found it easier to read toward the middle, and the ending practically flew. This story picks up about 20 years after The Talisman leaves off. Jack Sawyer is now in his 30s and is a retired police detective. He's forgotten all about the journey he took back when he was 12 years old. It's an interesting premise, and a story I was interested in reading, as I loved The Talisman so much. There are also a ton of connections to the Dark Tower series by King, which is a favorite of mine. Overall, a good read. ...more When I grabbed this book from the library shelf I wasn't aware that there was the prequel, The Talisman . And since I haven't read The Dark Tower series, many references to it were lost to me. However, I still enjoyed the book. It was veeery creepy and I couldn't fall asleep the first night when I was reading it. The gruesome details and suspense were killing me, however, there wasn't really any mystery. I knew from the beginning who the killer was and I also knew that it wasn't just that person's When I grabbed this book from the library shelf I wasn't aware that there was the prequel, The Talisman . And since I haven't read The Dark Tower series, many references to it were lost to me. However, I still enjoyed the book. It was veeery creepy and I couldn't fall asleep the first night when I was reading it. The gruesome details and suspense were killing me, however, there wasn't really any mystery. I knew from the beginning who the killer was and I also knew that it wasn't just that person's doing. The supernatural or the last part was a bit boring to me and that's why it got 4 stars. ...more WOW! This book was so intense it was insane! It was definately filled with a lot of horror, gore and suspense!! Wisconsin has a child serial killer who is a cannibal loose....... The horror of what the \"fisherman\" does to these children is just brutal. One of the things I found to be very interesting was the comparisons to real life serial killer/ cannibal Albert Fish in the 1920's. I loved the time the authors took in describing French Landing & the Town's people. Only King can entrap me in WOW! This book was so intense it was insane! It was definately filled with a lot of horror, gore and suspense!! Wisconsin has a child serial killer who is a cannibal loose....... The horror of what the \"fisherman\" does to these children is just brutal. One of the things I found to be very interesting was the comparisons to real life serial killer/ cannibal Albert Fish in the 1920's. I loved the time the authors took in describing French Landing & the Town's people. Only King can entrap me in his writing that I don't even realize hours have gone by in reading! If you like gore & horror I HIGHLY recommend this book. It is one of King's best work. (I haven't ready anybooks by Straub yet to compare, but plan on doing so now). WARNING: DO NOT READ ALONE AT NIGHT. PERFECT OCTOBER READ!!!!! ...more This book was written like Stephen King and Peter Straub decided that since everyone enjoyed The Talisman SO ever much, they decided to write a book that broke EVERY writing rule in history, just to see how much money they could make! I know both of these authors and know they are better than that. I jave sofar read 28 Stephen King books and Ghost Story and Koko by Peter Straub. I have not read The Talisman yet, but am planning to soon, although judging by this one, I will not be looking forward This book was written like Stephen King and Peter Straub decided that since everyone enjoyed The Talisman SO ever much, they decided to write a book that broke EVERY writing rule in history, just to see how much money they could make! I know both of these authors and know they are better than that. I jave sofar read 28 Stephen King books and Ghost Story and Koko by Peter Straub. I have not read The Talisman yet, but am planning to soon, although judging by this one, I will not be looking forward to it. I would not recommend this book to my worst enemy - it is written completely in second person! Euuuuugh ...more", "Title": "Black House"},
