{"Comments": "What a wonderful story. THIS IS FOR ALL THE FRIENDS WHO FORGOT HOW AWESOME THESE BOOKS ARE AND THE MOVIE - Look at the videos to remember Do NOT LICK YOUR SCREENS NOT ALLOWED LEAVE MARKS :D (only kidding you my lick just remember to clean afterwards :D Firstly if you do not like Sparkling VAMPIRES \u2013 DO NOT READ the rest of MY REVIEW! But if you want to I do not mind, but proceed at your own risk! Now do not throw stones at me! Who would not love a man that turn into a giant diamond in sunshine, well I am a girl and I L THIS IS FOR ALL THE FRIENDS WHO FORGOT HOW AWESOME THESE BOOKS ARE AND THE MOVIE - Look at the videos to remember Do NOT LICK YOUR SCREENS NOT ALLOWED LEAVE MARKS :D (only kidding you my lick just remember to clean afterwards :D Firstly if you do not like Sparkling VAMPIRES \u2013 DO NOT READ the rest of MY REVIEW! But if you want to I do not mind, but proceed at your own risk! Now do not throw stones at me! Who would not love a man that turn into a giant diamond in sunshine, well I am a girl and I LOVE DIAMONDS, or anything that sparkles *just saying*! I HAVE The WHOLE Twilight Saga Collection *Hardcover* all wrapped up in a special wooden glass casing box my Hubby made for me as a b-day present a couple of years ago \u2013 WHY \u2013 because I could not stop whining, and because I loved the books that much! So this books are like my babies! I also loved the following vampire movies: \u2192 Interview with a Vampire \u2013 Who does not love Brad Pitt or Tom Cruise (OK before Tom acted like a mad man on the Oprah show, that was such a huge disaster in his career) Dracula untold I am totally absolutely insanely in love with man below \u2013 in the movie Dracula untold \u2013 if you did not watch the movie \u2192 it I am telling you - you are missing out BIG time! ;-) Enough chit chat \u2013 LET ME START MY REVIEW:\u2192 Twilight Twilight - When You're Gone Meyer creates a new world of myths, dismissing all the old legends and creating her new vision of this strange and foreboding creatures. We meet Bella when she decides to live with her dad in Forks, a city where it rains every day and even a peak of sunshine is like the apocalypse. Bella is very fascinated by the guy with the topaz eyes Edward Cullen, but he seems to hate\u2019s her Edward is a vampire. But not the typical Dracula, coffins and blood vampire (Interview with a vampire or Dracula untold, NOPE). This new genre of vampires is something you have never heard about. They crave blood, true, but not in the sense we think. They hunt animals in order to live at peace with humans, and going out into the sun isn't a problem. Except for the whole glowing with radiant beauty thing. **My diamond Vampires** Bella and Edward soon become friends,<---M> the *lion and the lamb*</---M>, the *beauty and the beast* they had it. Edward has never been so happy therefore, Bella is precious and the story progresses. Then the first threat happens a vampire who tracks humans for snacks cached wind of Bella and her new protective family \u201cthe Cullens\u201d, Edward and his family of six vampires, all very unique and deep, start a crazy plan in an attempt to save Bella and kill the tracker, the hunt is launched, unfortunately this hunt scares Edward and when you read book 2 you realize the impact of this hunt! Edward snarling and dropping into his feral position--sigh, what a man! YUM!!!! This book should come out with a general's warning, you will stay up all night. So read Twilight with extreme caution , it is addictive! \u266a Twilight - Bring me to Life New Moon Love The Way You Lie In New Moon we miss the vampires the most of the story. Bella spends time with her friend Jacob, an Indian becoming a werewolf, who hates all \"bloodsuckers\", regardless of whether or not the bloodsuckers took human lives, they create this special bond that is very important factors for book 3 and 4, so even if you are angry at Edward at this point you need to read this to understand the bond between Bella and Jacob.. Bella becomes seriously withdrawn from the world after Edward\u2019s departure and considering their strange and magical relationship, which is expected, she did not just lose a lover but also an friend and her protector I think any human will become depressed! I do miss Edward's presence-he was such a strong character in Twilight, but Jake is such a nice character as well (But damn it broke my heart and I was so angry at Edward) When Edward lies to Bella, we know that he is lying, and we know that there will be resolution! I did enjoy the unique take on werewolves. Questions - is her friendship with Jacob any safer for her than her relationship with Edward? Or is Jacob hiding a dangerous secret of his own? There is a delightful, suspenseful, thrilling twist at the end of the book, and this is a must read! Eclipse Bella & Edward-Stay with me Twilight introduced us to Bella Swan and the mysterious Cullen's a family of vampires. New Moon pulled Bella and Edward Cullen apart, and tested their love and introduced us to Jacob and the battle between wolves and vampires. It also left us hanging with a decision about Bella and immortality: when? Eclipse is different. We return to the town of Forks and find that nothing much has changed. Graduation is closer than ever (after which, the Cullen's have agreed to make Bella a vampire) and a serial killer is loose in Seattle. Bella cannot see Jacob, her best friend because he is a Werewolf, and due to her ties to the vampires, it would break treaties and bonds made between them. As the days go by, and graduation gets closer and closer, Bella must choose her fate. She wants to become immortal and be with Edward, but she must give up her family to do so. She is also worried about the change: will she be able to be \"vegetarian\" like the Cullen Family, and refrain from human blood? Or will her new blood lust cause her to kill innocent people? Breaking Dawn A thousand years - Christina Perri I LOVED Breaking Dawn. I still love Bella, Edward, Jacob, and the rest of the Cullen Clan. I have even fallen for baby Renesmee. I am glad that Bella was allowed to become a mother even when it wasn't something that she wanted. I think there was an important message that the book DID get across...<---F>with Bella marrying Edward</---F>...with her having the baby... that sometimes, things that we don't know or think we want can be the most wonderful and powerful and most happily ever after moments in our lives. The Valkyrie did not like that there was a half human vampire baby \u2013 so there was a battle of wills between the Valkyrie and the Cullens, someone had to win someone had to lose \u2013 Read this series to find out who the lucky winners was? I am going to miss these books and these characters. May they live forever on library shelfs and in the minds of their truly devoted fans? All I can say is I was hooked! I devoured every page! I enjoyed Twilight, I liked New Moon, I loved Eclipse, and now I am completely infatuated with Breaking Dawn. Each one got better and better. Thank you for reading my long review! ...more You see that one little star? It\u2019s there because I can\u2019t give this series a 0 stars, if I could, I would. So I\u2019m finally reviewing <+++>The Twilight Saga</+++>. Ugh, honestly I\u2019d rather not because I know this will make me even more angry about these books, but I had to say my opinion on them. So if I sound angry in this review\u2026. It\u2019s probably because I am. So let\u2019s get started, shall we? First of all, I\u2019d like to say that yes, I did love these books the first time I read them, 3 years ago, I was kind of a f You see that one little star? It\u2019s there because I can\u2019t give this series a 0 stars, if I could, I would. So I\u2019m finally reviewing <+++>The Twilight Saga</+++>. Ugh, honestly I\u2019d rather not because I know this will make me even more angry about these books, but I had to say my opinion on them. So if I sound angry in this review\u2026. It\u2019s probably because I am. So let\u2019s get started, shall we? First of all, I\u2019d like to say that yes, I did love these books the first time I read them, 3 years ago, I was kind of a fangirl over them, but then a couple of reviews opened my eyes and when I re-read them I finally realized how bad these books actually are. Not only did Stephenie Mayer copy a bunch of other vampire books, but she also succeeded at making everything she copied 10 times worse . Also, I don\u2019t know for you guys, but reading these books made me have such bad headaches. I mean the writing. The writing. I don\u2019t know if she didn\u2019t have an editor or something, but I DO NOT UNDERSTAND HOW CAN BOOKS THIS BADLY WRITTEN BE PUBLISHED. There are so many grammar and syntactical errors that even for me, who doesn\u2019t have English as my first language, noticed them. Not to mention that the dialogues between the characters were atrocious. You know what also surprises me, though? When I read reviews of people who read tons of books and are really good in English and stuff and they say these books are well written. It baffles me. I don\u2019t know what they read, but it can\u2019t be this Saga if they say it\u2019s well written. Now let\u2019s talk about what probably is the worse aspect of the Twilight Saga. THE CHARACTERS. Bella Swan is probably the character I hate the most of all the books I read. I hate her with a fury passion. She\u2019s just a mary-sue\u2026. or no, rather it\u2019s just Stephenie Mayer who represented herself as Bella. Bella has absolutely no personality whatsoever AND she\u2019s an idiot. In four books I hardly learned anything about her except what she likes to eat for breakfast and that she \u201cwas unconditionally and irrevocably in love with [Edward Cullen]. Oh God, kill me now. And what\u2019s up with all these people loving her like she\u2019s the most amazing human on earth. Everyone loves her; everyone wants to be her friend. BUT WHY? There\u2019s nothing appealing about her at. She\u2019s boring, stupid, arrogant, selfish and the only thing she does is complain ALL THE FUCKING TIME. It\u2019s the only thing she\u2019s good at. \u201cOh no it\u2019s raining, I hate rain, my life sucks\u201d, \u201cOh no Edward didn\u2019t look at me today\u201d, \u201cOH NOOO, WHY IS EVERYONE IN LOVE WITH ME? MY LIFE IS SOOO HARD\u201d. Ugh, shut up. Edward. Ok, I could understand why some people love him so much, but when you really look at him, he\u2019s nothing else than a creepy stalker. And before thinking that you want a boyfriend like him think about this: Would you like a boyfriend that watches you while you sleep, that breaks something in you car so you can\u2019t go see your guy friend, that controls your every movement, won\u2019t let you out of his sight and insults you. NO I DON\u2019T THINK SO. So Edward and Bella\u2019s relationship was just a big joke for me. First of all I don\u2019t even understand why he\u2019d fall in love with a silly little girl like her, who doesn\u2019t have anything interesting about her. And last but not least, I\u2019d like to mention some of the things these books teach people. 1. How important it is to have a boyfriend, how you CAN\u2019T live without having a boyfriend. Remember in New Moon when Edward left Bella? And then Mayer decided to skip four (I believe it was four, I\u2019m not quite sure) whole months of Bella\u2019s life. What does that tell you? That when your boyfriend leaves you, you don\u2019t have a life anymore. So girls, make sure you have a boyfriend, ok? Cause otherwise, 2. JUST KILL YOURSELF. Now remember when that dumb girl decided to jump off a cliff? Yeah? Wow, what a great message for teens, right? 3. P.E.D.O.P.H.I.L.I.A. I don\u2019t care if Edward looks like a 17-year-old boy, BECAUSE MENTALLY HE\u2019S STILL A 107 YEAR OLD MAN. If he weren\u2019t a vampire he\u2019d be a 107-year-old man in love with a 17-year-old teenage girl. And I don\u2019t think anyone would be interested in reading such a book, I\u2019m sure of it. Also I won\u2019t even talk of Jacob, who in Breaking Dawn, imprints Bella and Edward girl who was born not even 10 minutes ago. Now I won\u2019t go in details of the other messages that these books contain but just to name a few: abuse, anti-feminism, teenage pregnancy, selfishness, don\u2019t get to attached to your friends cause they\u2019re just a backup group of people who you don\u2019t really like, you stand in the way of your mom\u2019s and boyfriend happiness, so go away, if your boyfriend is mean to you, it doesn\u2019t matter, just love him even more, if you fall in love with someone then leave your family for them, AND SO ON. You know, I find it quite funny when I see some people say \u201cBut you don\u2019t have to analyze it too much, it\u2019s just for fun\u201d. No it\u2019s not. I\u2019m not going to pretend that these messages aren\u2019t there, that the characters, the writing and everything else aren\u2019t bad. If you want to do that then go ahead, but it\u2019s still there. Now I\u2019m gonna finish this here because the more a write the more anger I have for Twilight. ...more See this review and more on The Moonlight Library ! In Twilight , Bella goes insane when her mother re-marries and ships her off to live with her absent father. In trying to cope with this, Bella imagines a world where she is the centre of attention from every boy in school, especially the hottest, most desirable Edward Cullen. But Edward isn\u2019t just the most desirable guy, no: he\u2019s also a vampire, and sheer coincidence, Bella\u2019s blood sings to him. This should be a problem, because Edward\u2019s supposed See this review and more on The Moonlight Library ! In Twilight , Bella goes insane when her mother re-marries and ships her off to live with her absent father. In trying to cope with this, Bella imagines a world where she is the centre of attention from every boy in school, especially the hottest, most desirable Edward Cullen. But Edward isn\u2019t just the most desirable guy, no: he\u2019s also a vampire, and sheer coincidence, Bella\u2019s blood sings to him. This should be a problem, because Edward\u2019s supposed to lose control when he comes near a blood singer like his brother Emmett did when he met his: however, Bella\u2019s Edward is so inhumanly perfect that he never hurts her, and even ends up falling in love with her (proof that Bella is insane, because this does not make logical sense to us, the readers, but does to Bella\u2019s poor fragile mind). When Bella realises nothing is really happening with her imagined relationship with some imagined angel-like vampire, she imagines another vampire decides he wants to randomly hunt her just because she\u2019s human (and of course one of the \u2018bad\u2019 vampires comes to warn the Cullens of Bella\u2019s danger, because even in Bella\u2019s insanity, random people still care about her). This makes perfect sense in Bella\u2019s mind: she\u2019s never been the centre of attention when living with her mother, and with her father the Chief of Police, he just doesn\u2019t have the time to give her the attention she needs. So she creates the perfect man to love her and protect her and needs her like her parents never wanted, and because she\u2019s never had a boyfriend before, poor lonely soul. In New Moon , Bella realises her perfect relationship is actually really boring and creates some drama by sending her perfect boyfriend away for her own protection. Or maybe, even in her insanity, she still thinks she\u2019s not worthy so she sabotages her own relationship. She falls into a catatonic state of depression and can only be drawn out of it by the attention of another boy who, coincidentally, is a member of the werewolf pack made to protect humans from vampires. With a suitably heroic new love interest, Bella creates more drama in her insanity by deciding that Edward is going to kill himself over some kind of crossed-wires communication, and it gives her the opportunity to add a lot more drama and an international journey to revive her relationship with Edward. Now that Edward is safe, he tells her she was stupid to believe him when he said he didn\u2019t love her anymore (which of course he does, because in Bella\u2019s mind everyone loves her, even if she doesn\u2019t notice). Now that Bella\u2019s patched up her imaginary conflict with her imaginary lover, she can still create other attention-grabbing conflict by having Jacob still in love with her. Coming to Eclipse , and Bella\u2019s madness is only deepening. She\u2019s obsessed with herself being the victim, so in some twisted way she imagines that the vampire from the first book\u2019s girlfriend wants her dead, so that for some weird reason Edward would suffer the way the girlfriend vampire has suffered. This is complicated by the fact that Bella is perfect and everyone loves her, especially the vampire lover from the first book and the werewolf boy from the second book. Obviously she can\u2019t have them fighting all the time because that\u2019s OMG DRAMAZ and with the inevitable big fight coming up, she can\u2019t really concentrate on her two boyfriends fighting over her. So in her crazy state of mind, the two boys who hate each other and are sworn enemies make a pact to defend her from the big bad vampire bitch queen \u2013 because of course, she\u2019s so unbelievable special. Breaking Dawn is Bella\u2019s insane attempt at avoiding adulthood while gaining domestic perfection by becoming a wife and mother. Bella, in her insanity, designs an impossible pregnancy to make her the centre of everyone\u2019s attention. Her mother was never very maternal, so now here\u2019s Bella\u2019s chance to prove to everyone she\u2019d make a better mother than her own mother. And of course she\u2019s insane because apart from the agony of a baby growing to full term in a matter of weeks and breaking her bones and nearly killing her, she doesn\u2019t experience any real motherhood \u2013 changing diapers, breastfeeding, teaching baby to talk and walk. But of course Bella seems to get it all in the end: eternally youthful, now immortally gorgeous, disgustingly rich with the most perfect angel-vampire husband and father to a daughter who sleeps at night (unlike her parents) and never makes a fuss or noise and quite frankly hardly needs any parenting at all. It\u2019s Bella\u2019s fantasy of motherhood played out just like she used to when she played with her dolls as a child. And her reward for being the perfect devoted wife and mother? Immortality. And of course her poor little mind had to make a consideration for Jacob \u2013 she couldn\u2019t possibly have Jacob leave her, because he\u2019s her sun or something, and his imprint of the Loch Ness Monster makes him a part of her little cult family forever. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Reviewing The Twilight Saga is a nearly unwinnable battle. If you admit to enjoying it, you run the risk of being branded an idiot. Luckily I have loads of experience with people telling me I'm an idiot, so I'm cool with it. Let me paint a picture for you and maybe you'll understand how this little series came to garner such a high rating from me. I read all four of the Twilight novels back-to-back (to back to back) over the co Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Reviewing The Twilight Saga is a nearly unwinnable battle. If you admit to enjoying it, you run the risk of being branded an idiot. Luckily I have loads of experience with people telling me I'm an idiot, so I'm cool with it. Let me paint a picture for you and maybe you'll understand how this little series came to garner such a high rating from me. I read all four of the Twilight novels back-to-back (to back to back) over the course of one magical summer. It was the summer I ceased to be a flotation device for my always potentially drowning children and instead spent my pool days like this . . . Ahhhhhhhh. After countless hours every summer piggybacking my non-swimming offspring around the shallow end they finally developed some buoyancy and I was able to watch things like this . . . . and (unfortunately) also some stuff like this . . . . *shudder* from the comfort of a lounge chair. That was also the summer I was able to get back into reading again. Thanks to the never-ending Wal-Mart check out line and a pretty little cover that claimed the contents would \"Soon Be A Major Motion Picture\" I found what became a perfect little fluffy summer obsession read. There's no doubt in my mind if I read these books today I would have a very different reaction to them. That's why I'm not going to. Oh, and also? They gave us Jacob, so haters to the left ; ) ...more (Partly based on a conversation with G N F) - Hello. Thank you for answering our advertisement. Now, I'm going to give you a short presentation, and I'd like to measure your reactions. Just sit down here... I'm connecting this to your right wrist... this goes over your head... and, if you wouldn't mind... exactly. Right, we're almost set. Let me check it's working. Say something that's true, like, I don't know, \"I am a fourteen year old girl\". Good! And now something that's false, like, hm, \"I've (Partly based on a conversation with G N F) - Hello. Thank you for answering our advertisement. Now, I'm going to give you a short presentation, and I'd like to measure your reactions. Just sit down here... I'm connecting this to your right wrist... this goes over your head... and, if you wouldn't mind... exactly. Right, we're almost set. Let me check it's working. Say something that's true, like, I don't know, \"I am a fourteen year old girl\". Good! And now something that's false, like, hm, \"I've never heard of Paris Hilton.\" Excellent! We're good to go. Oh, don't worry, it won't hurt. All we want to do is be sure we know what you think of our idea. It'll take a few minutes, and then you get your $50. - Okay, ah, this is a story we might be publishing as a book. It could be a movie too if things work out. It's about a teenage girl like you. Well, perhaps a bit older. Her parents are divorced. They don't have much time for her. All her mother is interested in is her feelings and her new boyfriend, and all her father is interested in is his job. She feels she needs to look after them most of the time. She's much more of a grown-up than they are. You're nodding! That's great. - This girl worries about what's going to happen to the world. Those greedy, selfish adults seem to want to suck it dry of everything it's got. Sometimes she thinks they're like a bunch of vampires sucking out the world's blood. Sometimes she dreams that they'll suck out her blood too. Maybe she shouldn't read so many vampire books. I see you nodding again! - Now I bet you already guessed that this is another vampire book. But they're a special kind of vampire. A technovampire. When they bite you, you turn into a... a sort of robot. Or maybe more like a beautiful living statue. I can see you frowning. You don't think it sounds very nice, do you? Well, we are having trouble with this part. Let me try it another way. Lots of women don't like the shape of their breasts. They'd like to have bigger, more attractive breasts, even if they are kind of hard to the touch. Maybe you've thought about getting a boob job? Aha! I knew it! Well, these technovampires have had a kind of boob job, but it's their whole bodies. Everything. Their whole bodies are cold and hard to the touch, but they look totally gorgeous. Okay? - So, the girl in the story is pretty tired of looking after her dumb parents, and she knows the kids in her class are just a bunch of losers. Her only chance is to get in with the vampires and have them make her into a vampire too. So, there's all these twists and turns, but in the end she gets what she wants. There's this vampire guy who falls in love with her, and she becomes a vampire too. And they live happily ever after. - Oh dear. You're shaking your head. You don't like it. You think it sounds horrible that she's going to abandon her family and her friends and become a cold, hard, bloodsucking vampire robot. But, look, she has to do it! It's her only chance. And she really does look totally hot once she's had the robot treatment. Okay, except that she's cold of course, you're right about that. Oh, and, I forgot to say that these other vampire robots become her new family. They're super-nice, uh, people. You still don't like it? Damn. - Well, I can see we're going to have to tweak a few things. It still isn't quite what we want. No, no, don't say that! I tell you, we're closer than you think. Perhaps we just need to make it a bit more romantic. - What? Of course we can. Why ever not? - I know! The vampire robots sparkle in the sunlight. Now don't you immediately feel more positive about them? You do! Awesome. - Okay, now thank you again for your time, and here's your $50. Oh, the pleasure's been all mine. You've been really helpful. And could you tell the next girl we're ready for her? Bye! ...more Uh, okay... normally I loathe profanity at the best of times, but in the case of The Twilight Saga , I have only two words that I'd like to say to it... These are the worst bunch of books I've ever read (they're almost as terrible as that godawful The Hunger Games series). Mind you, I'm sure that Twilight is really important and amazing to some readers. In my opinion though, it was just bizarre. I mean, c'mon, glittery vampire men that live in the trees and have their own weirdo vampire club? Is t Uh, okay... normally I loathe profanity at the best of times, but in the case of The Twilight Saga , I have only two words that I'd like to say to it... These are the worst bunch of books I've ever read (they're almost as terrible as that godawful The Hunger Games series). Mind you, I'm sure that Twilight is really important and amazing to some readers. In my opinion though, it was just bizarre. I mean, c'mon, glittery vampire men that live in the trees and have their own weirdo vampire club? Is that what passes for \"cool\" these days, or is it just nerdy? ...more This book was by far the best book i have ever read. Usually i dont find any interest in reading, but when i started Twilight i couldn't put it down. Ever since i read the Twilight series i've started reading on a regular basis. Even though i've read all the Twilight books i know that i will continue reading them over and over again and never get tired of them. I've told all of my friends about this book and they have read it and enjoyed it just as much as i did. The final edition of Anuradha, Stop Using the Word Rebuttal . The previous four (yes, I wrote four more of this shit) parts of this ramble may be found in my reviews of Twilight , New Moon , Eclipse , and Breaking Dawn . I repeat, I'm only posting this because I read this article . I'm literally only refuting the points mentioned in this, nothing else. I don't like comparison, but if the other party does it, be sure that I will respond. REBUTTAL POINTS 41-46: 41. The HP books are all depressing. Lots The final edition of Anuradha, Stop Using the Word Rebuttal . The previous four (yes, I wrote four more of this shit) parts of this ramble may be found in my reviews of Twilight , New Moon , Eclipse , and Breaking Dawn . I repeat, I'm only posting this because I read this article . I'm literally only refuting the points mentioned in this, nothing else. I don't like comparison, but if the other party does it, be sure that I will respond. REBUTTAL POINTS 41-46: 41. The HP books are all depressing. Lots of good characters die, which isn't cool. And they're just full of violance, and ridiculous plans. Harry Potter books may have elements of violence in them, but people die in wars. You can't just kill off only the secondary characters. Much as I hated seeing many of my favourites die, it added an element of realism to the story. Sometimes, bad things happen to good people. That's just how life is. The plans aren't ridiculous as much as they are elaborate. 42. <---A>Stephenie Meyer</---A> did her resarch and found a place like Forks so the vampires could be outside. JK just made one up. Yeah, Rowling created a world where we could all escape into, if we wanted. She spend years coming up with the details. She used her imagination and creativity, and the effects of it all were almost perfect. She created a hidden world for her wizards in the midst of all the normalcy of some place as common as London. Making one up is a lot more tedious than Googling one. 43. The sparkles are so unique and creative. They're not stupid. I feel like this is a parody account. The sparkles suck. Vampires don't sparkle. Period. 44. harry potter is too hard for a young child to read. Young children should not be reading Twilight ! Harry Potter has universal appeal. I read it as a child, and I understood it perfectly well. 45. Twilight is better because the books are written better and the characters bring more to the table for the readers. \"The real difference is that Jo Rowling is a terrific writer and Stephenie Meyer can't write worth a darn\" - Stephen King. Need I say more? 46. It's set in America. It's like you're not even trying... How does that matter? And it's done. Finito. I have no purpose in my life, again. Harry Potter made me a better person, and I will defend it ad nauseam . Click here for my review of Twilight which contains points 1-10. Click here for my review of New Moon , which contains points 11-20. Click here for my review of Eclipse , which contains points 21-30. Click here for my review of Breaking Dawn , which contains points 31-40. ...more I feel like I'm being generous with my two stars. Writing? Overwrought. Plot? Sooo thin. Characters? Mostly unlikeable (or forgettable). Misogyny and patriarchy? Slathered on with a spackle knife. Thinly veiled hopes to compare her stories to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Wuthering Heights\"? Meyer, c'mon. Mormon subtext? Go read storey321's review here: http://stoney321.livejournal.com/3171... because I will never top that. However, after a really slow start, I tore through the last two. I guess Flanag I feel like I'm being generous with my two stars. Writing? Overwrought. Plot? Sooo thin. Characters? Mostly unlikeable (or forgettable). Misogyny and patriarchy? Slathered on with a spackle knife. Thinly veiled hopes to compare her stories to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Wuthering Heights\"? Meyer, c'mon. Mormon subtext? Go read storey321's review here: http://stoney321.livejournal.com/3171... because I will never top that. However, after a really slow start, I tore through the last two. I guess Flanagan had something true in her review that \"Twilight\" taps into something in the adolescent girl mind. I dunno. ...more These book are a shame to literature. One day, I can only hope and pray, this Saga will be laughed at in sheer disgust and mocked, and all who said that it was the \"best and most romantic book ever\" will be mocked as well. If your looking for gushy, teenager romance junk, than these are the books for you. If you want something truly romantic, characters that actually have personalities, and a plot that dousnt make you cringe and want to stab yourself, than don't even glance at these \"books\". It These book are a shame to literature. One day, I can only hope and pray, this Saga will be laughed at in sheer disgust and mocked, and all who said that it was the \"best and most romantic book ever\" will be mocked as well. If your looking for gushy, teenager romance junk, than these are the books for you. If you want something truly romantic, characters that actually have personalities, and a plot that dousnt make you cringe and want to stab yourself, than don't even glance at these \"books\". It saddens me how so many love them, and makes me wonder why the world's taste has suddenly become so low that we result to reading and loving trash instead of the true works of art and literary masterpieces which have changed life. I would rather eat dirt than recommend these to anyone, and let me just tell you (scowls at her rashness which she is unable to hold back) you have absolutely NO taste in books and have not even read good books if you give this book more than one star. Sorry if this upset you terribly: but I must tell you all the truth and hope that you will turn to GOOD books one day. ...more I read this series once in order to keep up with pop culture and stay aware of what my students were reading. I recently reread it when my 11-year old stepdaughter expressed interest in the books. My review is somewhat ambivalent. On the one hand, I was reasonably engrossed with the series despite its obvious simplicity and Stephanie Meyer's apparent ignorance regarding the difference between who and whom. The books include vampires, werewolves, baseball, La Push (one of my favorite places on th I read this series once in order to keep up with pop culture and stay aware of what my students were reading. I recently reread it when my 11-year old stepdaughter expressed interest in the books. My review is somewhat ambivalent. On the one hand, I was reasonably engrossed with the series despite its obvious simplicity and Stephanie Meyer's apparent ignorance regarding the difference between who and whom. The books include vampires, werewolves, baseball, La Push (one of my favorite places on the planet), and enough erotic tension to get anyone in the mood. What's not to like? On the other hand, the story itself could easily be read as a metaphor for conservative Mormon theology. Not only that, the idea of teenage girls accepting Bella and Edward as an acceptable relationship model is horrific. No, they do not practice unsafe sex. Instead, each person in this couple is so inflexibly \"in love\" with the other that they literally cannot exist without the other. Threats of self-immolation, self-hurt, and suicide abound in each other's absence. Edward is an overprotective, controlling, even physically harmful (because of his supernatural strength) partner at times (always remorseful, but never quite able to stop himself); Bella just keeps coming back for more (grimace). When they are apart, Bella LITERALLY falls down and can't get up. Meyers leaves blank pages for entire seasons in New Moon--periods of Edward's absence when Bella's depression is so rampant that her thoughts and actions are not worth recording. Bella is only able to be a person again with the help of another semi-paramour, Jacob. That's right, she needs the help of a good man to get her sad face off the ground. Without blowing the ending for future readings, it's safe to say that all will be right in the world by the end of the series. Marriages will occur, babies will be born, and the happy domestic dream of a Mormon-inspired life will ensue--one in which the female is never able to achieve happiness or true self-realization on her own, but requires the assistance of a man in her life in order to fulfill it completely. Sure, the series tantalizes the Daddy issues of millions of women, but here is the question with which I was faced: would you feel comfortable with your impressionable tween/teen daughter reading this particular paradigm of love and self-growth? You can probably guess my answer. Two stars, Ms. Meyer. You get the second for holding my interest, but you should be mildly ashamed. ...more How this series was ever published is a complete mystery to me. How this became a BESTSELLER is just stupid. I could rant all day but lets start at the so-called main character. Bella Swan is not the kind of strong female character that I like to see. In fact she's the complete opposite. She spends the entire series whining, sulking and just overall being useless (when she's not unconscious). What kind of a main character is she that when her \"boyfriend\" leaves she becomes a living zombie and sim How this series was ever published is a complete mystery to me. How this became a BESTSELLER is just stupid. I could rant all day but lets start at the so-called main character. Bella Swan is not the kind of strong female character that I like to see. In fact she's the complete opposite. She spends the entire series whining, sulking and just overall being useless (when she's not unconscious). What kind of a main character is she that when her \"boyfriend\" leaves she becomes a living zombie and simply curls up into a ball for half the book until he returns? Where is a strong character that gets on with her life? And then she jumps off a cliff. Exactly. It's just ridiculous. The thing is Bella isn't even the worst character. Well... I guess she is. But Edward certainly gives her a run for her money. Edward is manipulative and controlling and I can't stand the guy. He even TAKES HER CAR APART so she can't go and see her FRIEND. That's just creepy. Plus there's the fact that he WATCHES HER SLEEP!!!! How weird is that? It seems like an action of a stalker rather than a caring boyfriend. But then again, he does actually follow her around without her knowledge so I guess he is an official stalker. What I hate is how Bella doesn't get a restraining order but she thinks it's \"sweet\". And, come on, you can't wave stuff like that away with a \"Oh, he's only being protective\". There's being protective and then there's being SO protective that it's controlling and creepy. Edward's the kind of person I'd expect a serial killer to be like. And we're supposed to like him? Really Meyer? Well you may have won over the 12-year-old fan girls but not me >.> Now, maybe I could overlook these awful characters if the plot of the series was any good. Well, it isn't. The books don't even HAVE a plot. Apart from maybe: \"OMG THE GUY I LOVE IS A VAMPIRE! OH NOES! OH NOW THERE'S A WEREWOLF IN THE PICTURE! OMG WHAT TO DO!\" And that's another thing. They fall in love after they've just MET! Bella has no reason to love Edward. In the first book all he does is glare at her a bit and she's in love. She only \"loves\" him because he's pretty. And he only \"loves\" her because she smells nice. At least they deserve each other I guess. The writing isn't even good. In fact, it's pretty bad. Anyone considering reading this series just save yourself some time and go and watch Alex reads Twilight. RANT OVER! ...more Who doesn't love these books? They are embarresingly addictive and so fun to read. I fell in love with the characters, though there wasn't enough Edward in the 2nd book...and can't wait to see what happens next. Twilight (book 1) re-read. Still love it after ten years. Haters gonna hate. No se que nota ponerle a los 4 libros juntos, porque para mi el primer libro es aguantable, el segundo libro es asqueroso, el tercer libro esta muy bien y el cuarto libro esta muy bien hasta el final, el cual es una mierda. Personalmente yo si le tengo que recomendar a alguien que mire esta saga le dir\u00eda lo siguiente, que lo mire multiplataforma de la siguiente manera: el primer libro l\u00e9elo, luna nueva mira la pel\u00edcula (o leerte el spoiler que puse en mi rese\u00f1a, https://www.goodreads.com/review/s No se que nota ponerle a los 4 libros juntos, porque para mi el primer libro es aguantable, el segundo libro es asqueroso, el tercer libro esta muy bien y el cuarto libro esta muy bien hasta el final, el cual es una mierda. Personalmente yo si le tengo que recomendar a alguien que mire esta saga le dir\u00eda lo siguiente, que lo mire multiplataforma de la siguiente manera: el primer libro l\u00e9elo, luna nueva mira la pel\u00edcula (o leerte el spoiler que puse en mi rese\u00f1a, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... para la gente que no sea capaz de aguantar esta trama), tercer libro leerlo, y cuarto libro leerlo hasta llegar a cuando aparezca la chica capaz de ver el futuro, entonces p\u00e1sate a la pel\u00edcula y mira el final de amanecer (parte 2). Vamos las cosas que me evitan ponerle buena nota son el libro completo de luna nueva y el final que tiene el ultimo libro, sinceramente es de los pocos libros que cambian un poquito el final en la pel\u00edcula, y la pel\u00edcula tiene mejor final... As\u00ed que creo valorando todo esto, la saga al completo creo que se merece una nota de: 6/10 (3 stars) Mas reviews en https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... dar a like si te a sido \u00fatil esta informaci\u00f3n, tambi\u00e9n puedes seguirme si tienes inter\u00e9s en ver mas rese\u00f1as como esta y si ten\u00e9is cualquier duda, quer\u00e9is debatir algo, avisarme de alg\u00fan error o cualquier otra cosa lo pod\u00e9is hacer en los comentarios. ^^ ...more Thanks to a bet (involving things I would rather not disclose) I had to read the entire Twilight Saga (all four books). I accomplished the feat in four days back to back (no DNF option). I already had the books on my TBR pile, but I kept finding excuses not to read them. And I was right to dawdle. Instead of writing the review for each and every book in this \"saga\", I decided to put all my eggs in one basket, so to speak, and write only one review, listing only the three major gripes. First: The f Thanks to a bet (involving things I would rather not disclose) I had to read the entire Twilight Saga (all four books). I accomplished the feat in four days back to back (no DNF option). I already had the books on my TBR pile, but I kept finding excuses not to read them. And I was right to dawdle. Instead of writing the review for each and every book in this \"saga\", I decided to put all my eggs in one basket, so to speak, and write only one review, listing only the three major gripes. First: The first person POV was tiresome, though I have to give kudos to the writer for the knack of portraying the convoluted, self-absorbed, manic-depressive, somewhat hysterical thoughts of a teenager. And that\u2019s sarcasm if someone didn\u2019t get it. Second: The writing and style made the books hard to read. Too much crap, too many weeds in the field, if you catch my drift. Were the editors out for coffee? And thanks to all the crap clogging the story and boosting the page count the whole thing was just too damn long. With a good edit you could cram everything up in one (albeit a little thick) book. And third, and the biggest problem for me in these books, the YA take on the vampire lore. *shudder* I love paranormal romance, especially the books dealing with vampires. The creatures of the night are tall, dark, handsome, buff, sexy as hell, exuding eroticism through every pore, not a gangly, frail-looking teenager that glows in the sun and drinks animal blood. Vampires are supposed to drink human blood, burst into flame in sunlight and have lots and lots of sex (possibly while drinking blood from their partner and chosen one). If I can\u2019t have a yummy, hunky, sexy vampire sipping from his lover, what\u2019s there to live for? I think it says a lot that I liked the crappy movies better than the books on with they were based. Bella should\u2019ve been sucked dry in the first couple of pages and Edward dismembered in the next couple. I didn\u2019t like these books, I don\u2019t think the change in POV could\u2019ve improved them, I don\u2019t recommend them, I won\u2019t re-read them, and I certainly will not make a bet like that ever, ever again. I do learn from my mistakes (sometimes). ...more So there is a Japanese manga adaptation of the series and I need it ASAP. I may not be a Twilight fan, but I am a fan of manga. Sometimes, I even read bad manga because it is fun. There is only a level up to which a bad story can annoy the reader. If it gets any worse, it becomes funny. I go pretty fast from, \"What the heck am I reading. It's making me so irritated, I want to tear this book.\" to \"LOL, the author actually thought this would work.\" I know this one is going to be hilarious. Unfortun So there is a Japanese manga adaptation of the series and I need it ASAP. I may not be a Twilight fan, but I am a fan of manga. Sometimes, I even read bad manga because it is fun. There is only a level up to which a bad story can annoy the reader. If it gets any worse, it becomes funny. I go pretty fast from, \"What the heck am I reading. It's making me so irritated, I want to tear this book.\" to \"LOL, the author actually thought this would work.\" I know this one is going to be hilarious. Unfortunately, this manga is available only in Japanese now. Here are the titles of the 13 volumes in English, thanks to Google Translate: 1. People who loved the vampire 2. Blood sorrow of taste 3. Darkness of the vampire clan 4. Fang whisper sweet 5. Month of wolf 6. Grief of fallen angels 7. Red stamped 8. The cold kiss me 9. Twilight demon of time 10. Vampire bride 11. The Guardian of the Dawn 12. Immortal child 13. Being held forever Alright, I know the titles would sound better in Japanese. Someone, please please release an English version soon. ...more The book that I'm writing this about is New moon , the second book in the series. When I read this book, I literally cried for 30 minutes. It's really sad, but you still love it, you love it so much that you get depressed with Bella (the main character). But you also get happy and hopeful when she thinks of hanging out with Jacob Black. It's about love, but it's also action packed when Bella finds out Edward thinks she killed herself and they have to fly to Italy. It was a close call. This book The book that I'm writing this about is New moon , the second book in the series. When I read this book, I literally cried for 30 minutes. It's really sad, but you still love it, you love it so much that you get depressed with Bella (the main character). But you also get happy and hopeful when she thinks of hanging out with Jacob Black. It's about love, but it's also action packed when Bella finds out Edward thinks she killed herself and they have to fly to Italy. It was a close call. This book is inspiring and I just can't get enough of it! I can't wait until Breaking Dawn is released! ...more really, really awesome series. who doesnt like Twilight? TWILIGHT IS AWESOME!!!! GO TWILIGHT!!! Alice is soooo my favorite. Cant wait till the movie!!!! This shouldn't even be called a book. It is horrid. It should be illegal. I'm not just saying this because it's a bad book (which it is) but because it's such a bad influence. The message of this book (given out by one putrid Bella Swan)is that a girl is useless without her boyfriend. Honestly it's all Bella's fault, I mean when Edward leaves her she crawls up on the ground and is depressed for, like, half a year. She only gets better when she gets another man in her life, Jacob Black (canine shap This shouldn't even be called a book. It is horrid. It should be illegal. I'm not just saying this because it's a bad book (which it is) but because it's such a bad influence. The message of this book (given out by one putrid Bella Swan)is that a girl is useless without her boyfriend. Honestly it's all Bella's fault, I mean when Edward leaves her she crawls up on the ground and is depressed for, like, half a year. She only gets better when she gets another man in her life, Jacob Black (canine shapeshifter- Sirius Black's last name- anyone else seeing the connection?) Not just that but she has so little self-worth she throws herself off cliffs just to see a vision of her ex. Get some persepctive! That aside Bella has no will of her own and, when she moves in with her dad (who watches sport and has a gun) what is practically the first thing she does? Goes to the kitchen and starts cooking, I mean come on! Sexist much? And have you noticed that almost all the women in Twilight don't go out and get a job, they just live off their men? Bella is the single most annoying female character I have ever come across in any book I've ever read (with the possible expection of the hypocrite Rose Hathaway from Vampire Academy) and I've read a lot of books. And as for Edward, well let me get started... How on earth is it romantic when he's stalking her and WATCHING HER SLEEP FOR GOD'S SAKE? It's not sweet, it's messed up, call the freaking cops. And later when he's a nice guy etc. and he's trying to encourage her to get a job she's all like \"I want to stay with you\" it just says that he's manipulated her and messed her up into thinking she can't live without him. No to mention that if he's a hundred years old he could have actually done something with that time instead of going to high school a thousand times and seducing someone over eighty years his junior. Honestly! I mean if she's going to risk her life dating someone who has the potential to see her as lunch then it doesn't say much about her sense of what's good for her. Also how many freaking times does the authour need to tell us that he's \"gorgeous\" I got the picture after the first hundered times goddammit. Another thing, why is everyone in that book in love with Bella? Seriously, what is there to love, is her chronic clumsiness supposed to be endearing, or he complete uselessness meant to be a good thing? What happened to strong female characters? This book sends a really bad message to people, that it's alright for a girl to just cling onto her man. That aside the story line is pretty much a rip off of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet and the supporting cast is so weak it isn't even funny. The only decent characters (Alice, Jasper, Emmet, Seth etc) are barely metioned and almost all the human characters at Bella's school are either one dimensional or plain unpleasant with no redeeming qualities. I don't like the Jacob/Renesme pairing, it was just a lazy way to tie up loose ends, and Bella's whole \"sheild\" ability is lame too. I know it ties in with how Edward can't read her thoughts but personally i think that thats because there were no thoughts worth reading in the first place. She certainly doesn't have an individual thought within her head anyway. As for the sparkling in the sunlight... where do I begin? Sparkling, hoenstly, just when you thought this book couldn't get any worse, Edward has to go ahead and sparkle. Not only does it hark back to something from a Barbie princess movie but it's like a very poetic irony to have a lack-lustre character start sparkling. That aside it's just sad when it comes to Edward because on anyone else it could have been mildly fabulous, but no, it just make Edward a complete sissy. As for it's too cloudy in Forks for him to sparkle properly, bitch please, if he sparkles in sunlight and not artificial light then it's the UV doing it, and UV doesn't care about how cloudy it is. He will sparkle in Forks just as much as anywhere else, if this book wasn't already irrealistic enough then this made me want to shoot someone. In conclusion,this book was truly unholy (and this is coming from a La Vey Satanist) so yeah... Rant concluded. ...more I used to think these books sounded stupid and refused to read them, making fun of anyone who did. However, when my nineteen-year-old self got dumped a few years ago and I was looking for a distraction, I decided \"you can't knock it till you try it, right?\" I read the whole series front to back in 4 days (which speaks more to the lack of complexity of this series than it does to my reading abilities) and here's my verdict: This series is about as entertaining as reading a twelve-year-old girl's d I used to think these books sounded stupid and refused to read them, making fun of anyone who did. However, when my nineteen-year-old self got dumped a few years ago and I was looking for a distraction, I decided \"you can't knock it till you try it, right?\" I read the whole series front to back in 4 days (which speaks more to the lack of complexity of this series than it does to my reading abilities) and here's my verdict: This series is about as entertaining as reading a twelve-year-old girl's diary. It's very absorbing and absolutely hilarious at times, but it doesn't do much for me on an intellectual level. The main character, Bella, does nothing but whine and complain about everyone being in love with her. She's a useless human being and she doesn't have much of a personality and certainly doesn't have a mind of her own. When her boyfriend dumps her in the second book, she turns into an even more useless lump by hiding from everyone for months on end. This sends the message to teenage girls that there is nothing more valuable in life than having a boyfriend. Meanwhile, Edward, the supposed love of her seventeen-year-old life (like anyone knows who they're meant to be with at seventeen), is a creepy, possessive stalker who does nothing but obsess over Bella day and night. I'm sorry to all the fangirls out there, but the way Edward \"loves\" Bella is not a true representation of love in my book. That whole watching her while she sleeps thing - awkward?! In the meantime, Bella emotionally tortures her other suitor, Jacob, by playing games with his affections. In my opinion, he's a much more likable character than either Edward or Bella, until of course in the fourth book when he imprints on Edward and Bella's newborn child (pedophilia anyone?). Although I will admit that these were absorbing and entertaining, they should not qualify as literature because of the simplicity of the writing. A seven-year-old could read these were it not for content above their level. ...more I am going to clump all the books into one review even though I preferred the first and 3rd books to the other 2. I enjoyed Breaking Dawn until I read the reviews about how dissapointed everyone was with the book...saying it was too perfect. I heard in Utah there is a group of ladies who have thought less of their husbands after reading about Edward and how perfect he is...a gentleman and handsome etc. Please! He's a vampire. I thought Breaking Dawn ended just how I wanted it too. Yes, there wer I am going to clump all the books into one review even though I preferred the first and 3rd books to the other 2. I enjoyed Breaking Dawn until I read the reviews about how dissapointed everyone was with the book...saying it was too perfect. I heard in Utah there is a group of ladies who have thought less of their husbands after reading about Edward and how perfect he is...a gentleman and handsome etc. Please! He's a vampire. I thought Breaking Dawn ended just how I wanted it too. Yes, there were a few flaws and a few too many perfect scenarios with Bella and Edward and a lot of build-up for nothing, but overall I enjoyed it and still read it pretty fast. I already told my 11 yr old daughter that she couldn't read it because of a little more mature content with Bella and Edward getting married. But, I say good job Stephanie Meyer! We're all just jealous that we couldn't do the same thing with our first novels. ...more OK all these books are good, but extremely frustrating at the same time.... He's like 150years old and has never had sex?!! Drives me crazy!! Just do it already!!! BY the end of the third one I'm so angry I can't see straight. The author does a really great job getting you to keep turning the pages, and just when you think there's gonna be awesome sex...None!! Oh the morals you can learn from this book. Maybe Bella wouldn't be so sad all the time if her cold, bloodsucking, boyfriend wasn't such OK all these books are good, but extremely frustrating at the same time.... He's like 150years old and has never had sex?!! Drives me crazy!! Just do it already!!! BY the end of the third one I'm so angry I can't see straight. The author does a really great job getting you to keep turning the pages, and just when you think there's gonna be awesome sex...None!! Oh the morals you can learn from this book. Maybe Bella wouldn't be so sad all the time if her cold, bloodsucking, boyfriend wasn't such a saint. Sure, he's killed a lot of people but he's not about to have \"relations\" before marriage. Never in all 3 books is the word sex even used!! UGH!!! It's so frustratingly awesome! Who wouldn't want to get it on with a hot werewolf or very strong, freakishly handsome vampire? ...more Amazing book collection. I read these 4 books over the span of a year and a half, which goes to show that I wasn't very keen on them. I read the first one in spring 2008 because it was a bestseller and I was curious what the book was like and why it was so popular. The first 200 pages or so were pretty dull. I felt like there was very little action and too many dialogues. Then finally, the bad guys appeared and the pace quickened up and I actually found the book interesting from that part on. The first book is not that I read these 4 books over the span of a year and a half, which goes to show that I wasn't very keen on them. I read the first one in spring 2008 because it was a bestseller and I was curious what the book was like and why it was so popular. The first 200 pages or so were pretty dull. I felt like there was very little action and too many dialogues. Then finally, the bad guys appeared and the pace quickened up and I actually found the book interesting from that part on. The first book is not that bad, actually, the problem lies in the next ones where Bella's and Edward mutual obsession reaches ridiculous and completely unbelievable levels. What is it with Stephenie Meyer and her unhealthy fascination with perfection? Why does Edward have to be the ideal guy - unbelievably beautiful, a 100 % gentleman and a perfect match for Bella? Why do werewolves have to find their soulmate and imprint on them, no matter the age or the personality of that person? Why aren't the books more focused on things other than \"the match made in heaven\" or later on the love triangle? Why does the writer constantly underline that almost all characters are soulmates : Carlisle and his wife, Emmet and Rosalie, Jasper and Alice, Bella and Edward, Jacob and Renesmee (oh, they WILL live happily ever after together too, no doubt about that!), even James and Victoria must have been soulmates? Heck, even in harlequins the main characters aren't as obsessed with each other as B & E are! Seriously, Meyer's attempt to make a modern remake of \"Romeo and Juliet\" is horrifying! But lets get back to the books. I happened to read \"Eclipse\" before \"New Moon\" in the e-book format and I was terribly bored! It should have been twice shorter. The love triangle wasn't exciting and didn't create real tension because of Bella's eternal commitment to Edward. It was more like constant repetition of : Jacob : Bella, I love you. Leave your bloodsucker and we'll live happily ever after! Bella : No, Jacob, you're just a friend to me! I could never leave Edward because he's oh so perfect and we're meant to spend eternity together. Edward : Bella, I love you more than Romeo loved Juliet, so don't you dare go near her, Jacob! The part of the plot that dealt with Victoria and the newborns also isn't worth attention. The bad guys were dealt with, Bella agreed to become Edward's wife, Jacob turned into a werewolf, ran away, end of the book. I've noticed that a lot of people who were \"Twilight\" fans were very disappointed with the 4th book, so I decided to download it and see how it could get any worse. Also around that time I watched the 1st \"Twilight\" movie, liked it and decided to read the 2nd book to know what to expect from the next movie. I can't say that the 4th book was obviously inferior to previous books, no, it simply continued the \"we're a perfect couple and we're gonna live perfectly ever after\" theme that is present in previous series installments: our ultimate couple gets married,they have a baby who makes them even more blissful, figure out their problems with Volturi (damn, I really hoped there would be an epic battle and many would get killed, but noooo, Meyer is a huge pacifist who allows even the evil Volturi leave unharmed!), the annoying love triangle is solved by Jacob's imprinting on Renesmee, everyone is ecstatic and their ecstasy will last forever. A thing that really bugged me : did we really NEED those 100 pages of Jacob's narrative with Leah and what's-his-name J's buddy thrown in?!! Personally, I don't give a damn about werewolves! Lets also give \"New Moon\" an \"honorable\" mention. I admit it, I am a fan of sad stories, but Bella's agony is just idiotically overblown and melodramatic (but I'm not surprised, seeing that this whole love story is one big hyperbole and there isn't a slightest hint of realism in it). Bella is a zombie for several months, but then Jacob rescues her from complete and utter despair and just like everyone else he falls in love with her, but no, he's just a friend to Bella, because no one can match her perfect Eddie! She does all kinds of dangerous things to hear her one true soulmate's voice, including jumping from the cliffs. Then she learns from Alice that her darling Eddie considers her to be dead and, being a Romeo wannabe, plans to end his life too. She races to Volterra and saves him in the last moment. They have a nice little chat with Volturi and happily go home. No, really, what's not to love in this primitive cliched love story? It's a literature masterpiece, let's recommend it to everyone we know and create a \"Twilight\" fan club! ...more Before I talk about what many expect to hear from those who didn't like the series, I would like to say that this series actually had SOME moments of redeeming qualities. Alice is an amazing character. She is sweet, she is likeable and it's too bad she didn't become more of a main character. Jacob's character had a potential to be well-written and his tribe and perspective was sometimes interesting, but his likeability died for me in the 4th book for a reason that is a spoiler. That being said, Before I talk about what many expect to hear from those who didn't like the series, I would like to say that this series actually had SOME moments of redeeming qualities. Alice is an amazing character. She is sweet, she is likeable and it's too bad she didn't become more of a main character. Jacob's character had a potential to be well-written and his tribe and perspective was sometimes interesting, but his likeability died for me in the 4th book for a reason that is a spoiler. That being said, the 4th book unfortunately had late characters introduced that would have made it a lot more interesting had they been introduced early on. Despite having extreme difficulty reading through this series, I wanted to have a fair read through the entire thing. The Bella/Edward relationship was unhealthy. Unhealthier than Romeo and Juliet (which keep in mind, is a classic for it's tragedy, not it's romance). Over the course of the series, Bella becomes more subservient and spoiled. Edward is the controlling sugar-daddy and Bella is the plain, book-knowledge dark girl high school stereotype. I say \"book-knowledge\" because her actions lack an unfortunate amount of common sense. Her attraction for Edward is immediate and superficial. If you go back over the stories and count the amount of sentences where she talks about how Edward looks, I guarantee that it would fill nearly one book. The amount of sentences where she talks about any other qualities of him that she likes would probably equal one paragraph. This relationship is a senseless shallow one that has no foundation. They are both prone to entirely destructive behavior if they don't get their way, which comes off as two untreated people with bi-polar disorder. The language of this book can be randomly interesting, but most of the time it is repetitive with some of the worst words and filled with word misuse (dictionary abuse some might like to call). The descriptions are also terribly unbalanced. The moments where you would love descriptions there are none and the moments where you just want a scene to end (her sitting in a forest, just thinking) it drags on for half to a full chapter. Now that being said, if you get extremely curious over destructive relationships you might enjoy it, knowing it's still unhealthy, but please for heavens sake... do not glorify this series as a healthy relationship example. In the end, the action of this series may pique some interest, but the ending of each action sequence fell short, especially in books 3 and 4. It was very anti-climactic. ...more The story is not worth much, though I must admit 5 years ago I was completely crazy about these books. Since I am not a fan of the triangle or whatever it was between Edward-Bella-Jacob, I always liked Alice, Emmett, Carlisle etc. Even today, I do like some of the characters in the series and there are bunch of my hostel buddies with whom I bonded and became quite good friends because of these books/movies so yeah, this story will always have special place in my heart. Hence, 3 stars! ;) Otherwi The story is not worth much, though I must admit 5 years ago I was completely crazy about these books. Since I am not a fan of the triangle or whatever it was between Edward-Bella-Jacob, I always liked Alice, Emmett, Carlisle etc. Even today, I do like some of the characters in the series and there are bunch of my hostel buddies with whom I bonded and became quite good friends because of these books/movies so yeah, this story will always have special place in my heart. Hence, 3 stars! ;) Otherwise 2 stars would've been enough. ...more As you can see by my stars I didn't particularly enjoy this book. However, I think it's important to read the books that teen girls are reading to get a handle on how their minds are working, especially in regards to relationships. I know abuse is a really dirty subject and not many of us want to talk about it. Unfortunately, often the things we don't want to talk about are the things that need to be talked about. How many young girls can identify some of the signs that they are in an abusive rel As you can see by my stars I didn't particularly enjoy this book. However, I think it's important to read the books that teen girls are reading to get a handle on how their minds are working, especially in regards to relationships. I know abuse is a really dirty subject and not many of us want to talk about it. Unfortunately, often the things we don't want to talk about are the things that need to be talked about. How many young girls can identify some of the signs that they are in an abusive relationship? I used to think that if I wasn't being physically hurt I was not in an abusive relationship. It took a painful relationship and the help of friends to make me realize that physical abuse is not the only kind of abuse. In fact, a lot of the other sorts of abuse are significantly more harmful than physical abuse. In the Twilight series Edward displays characteristics of posessiveness, murderousness (and not just because he's a vampire), and many other negative characteristics. Because of this Bella shows signs of being posessed, suicidal thoughts, and unrealistic goals. However, all of these characteristics are shown in a good light! The idea is that they must be together because these are obviously characteristics of love. To me this is not the case. The characteristics are the sign of an unhealthy and unproductive relationship. But put these characteristics in front of a young woman (which is who these books are geared towards) who is not capable of distinguishing these signs because nobody has ever talked to her about it and these books could be extremely harmful. ...more<---C>Stephenie Meyer</---C>", "Title": "The Twilight Saga"},
