{"Comments": "I have been waiting for a new book by <---A>Lisa Moore</---A> and this did not disappoint. I read slowly right from the start, so that I could absorb each essential phrase, to appreciate how one sentence moved to the next,<---M> to marvel at a particular paragraph</---M>, or to pause at the end of a subsection to reflect on the way Lisa Moore had crafted a scene. <+++>February</+++> is a fictional story about how one Newfoundland family of five deals with the loss of husband and father Cal, in the real-life tragic sinking of the of I have been waiting for a new book by Lisa Moore and this did not disappoint. I read slowly right from the start, so that I could absorb each essential phrase, to appreciate how one sentence moved to the next, to marvel at a particular paragraph, or to pause at the end of a subsection to reflect on the way Lisa Moore had crafted a scene. <+++>February</+++> is a fictional story about how one Newfoundland family of five deals with the loss of husband and father Cal, in the real-life tragic sinking of the offshore rig, the OCEAN RANGER, on Valentine\u2019s Day, 1982. The main characters are wife Helen, eldest child and only son John, and, in flashback scenes, Cal. Secondary characters are Helen\u2019s sister Louise; Jane, connected to John; and John\u2019s three younger siblings: Lulu, Cathy, and Gabrielle. Then there is Barry, the man who not only renovates the house, including choosing the correct paint, but eventually alters Helen\u2019s life. Like a watercolour painting, Moore builds layer upon layer to build the story from its foundation to its final coming-together. Part one begins November 2008 with son John phoning his mother from Singapore. He asks her: Have you ever tried to figure out the difference between what you are, and what you have to become? This is essentially the theme of the novel. Then Moore whisks us to February 14, 1982 when the OCEAN RANGER begins to sink. John and Helen are presented as more affected by the loss than his three sisters. Back again to John, as Jane, the woman he spent a week with seven months ago, informs him she is pregnant.<---F> This is the present-time story-line</---F>. His mother would force him to do the right thing, whatever that was. She would know. But the heart of the book chronicles Helen\u2019s decades-long grief over the loss of her husband. Flash back to 2008 and her delivery of Gabrielle, the youngest child, born after Dad drowned at sea. Then, Call me when you get to New York, his mother said. We\u2019ll talk about the baby. Moore has created an interesting structure here. Five sections are broken into subheads with titles, including dates for each. Most of the story takes place during 2008: June, August, October and November; not in order, and mostly in November. The rest slips back to 1972; \u201975; \u201978; \u201980; 82; \u201987; \u201995; \u201997; more emphasis on February, 1982, but again, not chronological. And finally, the fifth part takes place in January and February 2009. (<---B>The book\u2019s release date was June 1, 2009.</---B>) The writing is also interesting: Lisa Moore writes the way we often think, with thoughts jumping at random. As with the structure, this semi-stream-of-consciousness style is a very effective way to draw us in and really experience Helen\u2019s grief. At times, Helen\u2019s view of the past and the present reflect a distorted view of reality; thoughts that create images like one of those carnival mirrors. Except that rather than comic, more often the optical-feeling effect is of multiple parts, missing parts, huge parts; memories can loom large, or have pieces missing, or be jumbled together. The present can be distorted by memories of the past. Juxtapose this with clarity of vision that is so startling it can leave the reader gasping. With such structure and writing style, one might think the story would be difficult to follow. On the contrary: it serves to add breadth and depth \u2013 of feeling, of sensory detail, of the moment-to-moment momentum of observation, as when her father-in-law phones to tell her he\u2019d identified Cal: Helen lost her peripheral vision. She could see a spot about the size of a dime in a field of black. She tried to focus on the surface of the kitchen table. It was a varnished pine table they\u2019d bought at a yard sale, and in that little circle she could see the grain of wood and a glare of overhead light. She had willed the spot to open wider so she could take in the bowl with the apples and the side of the fridge and the linoleum, and then the window and the garden. Her scalp was tingling and a drip of sweat ran from her hairline down her temple. Her face was damp with sweat as if she\u2019d been running. Which brings me to the use of light as a motif, starting with the very first lines: Helen watches as the man touches the skate blade to the sharpener. There is a stainless steel cone to catch the spray of orange sparks that fly up. Here is Helen, up at 4:00 a.m., on the night the rig began to list, though she doesn\u2019t know that yet. There\u2019s a storm happening outside: But then a plow came down over the hill and it was bleating and the revolving light on the top of the cab struck the frosted window and Helen could see thousands of crackles and crystals and grey shimmer burning as white as flashbulb, violet-white, just for an instant, burning so fiercely it hurt somewhere behind her eyes. It hurt somewhere deep in her skull. It felt as though the light had pierced her, gone through, and the mad design of the frost, infinitely curling in on itself, had been printed on her retina. It felt like a puncture. A rapture.\u2026the light hitting the frost at that second had refracted, each minute crystal a hall of mirrors, so that the intensity was hugely magnified. If only I could quote three pages (!) here, because it all ties in with her being pregnant; and leaving a pot burning on the stove, and hurling the pot outside into the snow; and dreaming of Cal, and being afraid. February is the shortest month of the year; but it often seems the longest, at least in parts of Canada, when winter can be unrelenting; will February never end? Helen\u2019s grief is relentless for twenty-six years. For me, Helen\u2019s grief was an intimate experience; at once familiar and fresh at the same time. It may sound contradictory, but it never seemed morose; there was beauty in Helen\u2019s memories, in her grieving. In writing this story, Moore knew that she had to reveal glimpses of the intense love Helen and Cal shared; so that we could understand how much Helen had really lost. The bright flame of their love extinguished in a flash when Cal died, plunging Helen into an inward life of loneliness, of darkness. But like the seasons, in the end, Helen cycles back to emerge from the dark into light once more. February is a passionately crafted story that rang true to me, true to life. ...more The oil rig \"Ocean Ranger\" began to sink off the coast of Newfoundland on Valentine's Day 1982. The rig was gone, and every man on it perished in the stormy disaster by the next day. Helen O'Mara was left with three children, and a fourth on the way, when her beloved Cal died. \"Somehow Helen had picked up the idea that there was such a thing as love, and she had invested fully in it. She had summoned everything she was, every little tiny scrap of herself, and she'd handed it over to Cal and said: The oil rig \"Ocean Ranger\" began to sink off the coast of Newfoundland on Valentine's Day 1982. The rig was gone, and every man on it perished in the stormy disaster by the next day. Helen O'Mara was left with three children, and a fourth on the way, when her beloved Cal died. \"Somehow Helen had picked up the idea that there was such a thing as love, and she had invested fully in it. She had summoned everything she was, every little tiny scrap of herself, and she'd handed it over to Cal and said: This is yours....It wasn't just dumb luck that Cal knew what the gift was worth; that's why she gave it to him in the first place. She could tell he was the kind of guy who would know.\" (49) Grief and love are all wrapped up in each other in this book. The story goes back and forth between the present and the memories of Helen and her eldest child John. Themes of death and birth are strong with Cal's death followed by the birth of their fourth child, and a later subplot about the February birth of John's child. Lisa Moore's writing is sensuous and real. She brings the reader into the characters' bodies and minds to experience all the love, numbing grief, and other emotions that life can bring. ...more I tried. I wanted to like this book. My goal this year was to read each of the five \"Canada Reads\" choices, so that I could follow along with the CBC debates. These were supposed to be quintessential Canadian novels - the cream of the crop. Perhaps I made a mistake in trying to read this during February itself - the most grey, depressing time of year here. Maybe in the summer I will try again. In the meantime though, there was so much I just could not like: the main characters frustrated me, I fou I tried. I wanted to like this book. My goal this year was to read each of the five \"Canada Reads\" choices, so that I could follow along with the CBC debates. These were supposed to be quintessential Canadian novels - the cream of the crop. Perhaps I made a mistake in trying to read this during February itself - the most grey, depressing time of year here. Maybe in the summer I will try again. In the meantime though, there was so much I just could not like: the main characters frustrated me, I found the portrait of the widow/mother to be heavy-handed. (\"I get it,\" I thought, over and over again. \"She's a widow, the whole thing is tragic. Yes, yes, she's been very stoic...\") And then the complete lack of quotation marks. Again, I get it: the author clearly wants us to look at the story as though we were looking through the lens of a camera, or leafing through old photos. Perhaps it's my own prejudice, or being far too much of a stickler for grammar, but damn it, use the punctuation you were given as a writer . It's not \"stylish\", not \"bold\" - it just makes your prose more difficult to read, and is distracting to boot. I'm against the vandalism of library books... but ye gods! I wanted so badly to take a red pen to the whole thing. ...more I don't want to give a negative review to a book about the 1982 Ocean Ranger disaster. I don't want to appear insensitive to the people affected by that tragic event. The families and friends of those lost have my sympathies. But I really didn't like this book. Lisa Moore writes beautifully descriptive passages. She writes beautifully descriptive passages about scattered, disconnected and, frankly, not very interesting events. Finishing this book was a chore, and I only did so because I had to giv I don't want to give a negative review to a book about the 1982 Ocean Ranger disaster. I don't want to appear insensitive to the people affected by that tragic event. The families and friends of those lost have my sympathies. But I really didn't like this book. Lisa Moore writes beautifully descriptive passages. She writes beautifully descriptive passages about scattered, disconnected and, frankly, not very interesting events. Finishing this book was a chore, and I only did so because I had to give a full report to my book club. I procrastinated about picking it up again every time I put it down. I groaned when I finally succumbed to the need to plough through it. I impatiently skimmed through the tangential ramblings of the narrator. The main character, Helen, loses her husband in the Ocean Ranger disaster. She has three children at home and a fourth on the way. Understandably, she's shell-shocked, and this book is the story of how she picks up the pieces of her shattered life. The theme resonated with other members of my book club\u2014a single mother and a widow\u2014who felt that Moore had done an admirable job of capturing the emotional journey of people suddenly left to cope on their own. I agree, but Moore captures it, perhaps, too well. Passages rife with non sequiturs and leaps between topics effectively represent the scattered thinking of someone in shock, and I would have liked that approach, if Moore had used it only for the parts of the book that take place immediately after the disaster. But Moore uses this style through the whole book, and it's tiresome. Moore is so busy describing random events and the characters' inconsequential encounters with strangers (that do nothing to advance the story) that she leaves unfinished the story lines we readers are hungry for. We get a lengthy passage on dolphin training, but we don't know what happened to Gabrielle, the baby born in the womb at the time of her father's death. We get an entire short chapter on how Helen and her husband were once on opposite sides of a tug of war, but we're left hungry for more details on the intriguing story line of her son's job skirting safety regulations for oil companies. The whole book was haphazard and exasperating. Too many self-indulgent descriptions of details that don't advance the story. Too many leaps between topics within the same passage. Too many leaps back and forth and all around in time. Oh, and I'm going to send Lisa Moore some quotation marks for Christmas. ...more Some may say that this is a book about death or life or love, but for me this is a book about the \"ifs\" and the \"whens.\" The plot is irrelevant because whatever the plot is it is only the plot because of the perspective from which the story is told. It is a story of moments, the ifs and whens of one woman's life, and those moments, unrelated but for the woman who experienced them, are the tale. February is a novel of fragments. And in those fragments is one of the truest stories I've ever read. I'v Some may say that this is a book about death or life or love, but for me this is a book about the \"ifs\" and the \"whens.\" The plot is irrelevant because whatever the plot is it is only the plot because of the perspective from which the story is told. It is a story of moments, the ifs and whens of one woman's life, and those moments, unrelated but for the woman who experienced them, are the tale. February is a novel of fragments. And in those fragments is one of the truest stories I've ever read. I've read better from Lisa Moore (very slightly better), but there are few -- and only a few -- authors who can write as well as Moore on her worst day let alone her best. And this book is from one of her very good days. I can't see this being a book that I would read again, but I loved the journey, and I would recommend it to anyone who'd like to spend a few days living a life with someone worth knowing. ...more \"Solitude, she thinks, is a time-release drug... it enters the system slowly and you can become addicted. It's not an addiction, it is a craft.\" On Valentine's Day 1982, the Ocean Ranger, an assumed-to-be unsinkable oil rig, sank during a vicious storm out in the North Atlantic. Thirty years later the tragic events of that night still resonate deeply with the affected communities of Newfoundland. Families lost fathers, brothers, sons and lovers during a night when hope and prayers for a miracle t \"Solitude, she thinks, is a time-release drug... it enters the system slowly and you can become addicted. It's not an addiction, it is a craft.\" On Valentine's Day 1982, the Ocean Ranger, an assumed-to-be unsinkable oil rig, sank during a vicious storm out in the North Atlantic. Thirty years later the tragic events of that night still resonate deeply with the affected communities of Newfoundland. Families lost fathers, brothers, sons and lovers during a night when hope and prayers for a miracle turned into despair and grief: all eighty four crew were lost, either on board or in the ice cold water. Newfoundland award winning author, Lisa Moore's 2009 novel February fictionalizes the deep physical and emotional shockwaves in the aftermath of the disaster by telling the story of one widow, her profound grief and the long-lasting scars on her soul while putting all her energy into bringing up her family and healing herself. Lisa Moore's heroine, Helen, thirty at the time of the disaster, was robbed of her husband Cal, the love of her young life, the breadwinner for their young family with three small children with a fourth on the way. Much of the story is set in 2008, yet with Helen's mind often wandering back to that fateful night in 1982, the innocent years prior to the disaster and the many years since. Helen reflects on her emotional state of mind at the time as \"being outside\": \"The best way to describe what she felt: She was banished. Banished from everyone and from herself.\" Still, the daily life had to go on while grief and pain were kept locked into the inner folds of her mind. \"Helen wanted the children to think that she was on the inside, with them. The outside was an ugly truth that she planned to keep to herself.\" Grief, as we know it, is unique to each person, intimately personal and not always easy to understand for others. Moore's capacity to capture and express the individuality of Helen's grieving in a way that we as readers can relate to it in our own personal ways, speaks to the quality and thoughtfulness of her writing. In 2009, I have to admit, this was not a book that I wanted to read, given my own recent loss, but four years later, I can appreciate Helen's story and the winding and twisting process of her coming to terms with her grief and her life. February is in no way a sad or depressing book. Moore brings enough detail to Helen's life moving forward to keep the reader supportively engaged. Helen is surrounded by her three daughters and John, her oldest. John is a major character in the novel and we follow his growing up from the ten year-old at the time of the disaster to a young man who develops his own means to deal with loss. The image of the absent father is well developed through John's and Helen's recollections. As a result, Cal remains very much a part of the novel. Even after many years, Helen's mind keeps returning to the night of the disaster. Not knowing what really happened in the last hours of Cal's and his mates' lives, does not let her rest. What did they know and understand of the crisis? \"They all knew they weren't safe. They all knew. But they had decided not to tell anyone. But it leaked out of them in larks and pranks and smutty puns, and it leaked sometimes out in a loneliness that made phone calls from land hard to handle.\" February is not a chronological account of Helen's efforts \"to get back on her feet\". Not at all. Like memories and dreams, the narration jumps timelines, joining unrelated events or triggering sudden vivid images. Moore's narrative flows from the present in 2008 to 1982, the other still vivid present, to times before and in between... Sometimes her chapter dates give you an indication where we are, often, though, she relies on the reader to figure out where Helen's mind is at that moment. And, with a bit of reading into the novel, you do. Moore has a subtle and compassionate way to convey her character's story. At times, her writing structure reminded me of a puzzle, where, unexpectedly, one small 'piece', be it somebody's gesture or the colour of the ocean on a misty night, connects several until then unconnected images and a broader perspective falls into place. Overall, this is a beautifully developed and affecting story, set in a broader context that is relevant as much today as it was then. Some of the side stories seem to be more than complementing the central story and distracted to some degree. The novel's ending may not be to everybody's liking, but these, in the end, are minor irritants. ...more This book languished in a stack on a to-be-read shelf for almost two years, squashed between a Julian Barnes below and some short story anthology above. It was 31 years ago on Valentine's Day that the Ocean Ranger oil rig sank off the coast of Newfoundland, killing all aboard. 31 years later, on Valentine's Day yesterday, February won the Canada Reads award. (Oh crap, now the masses will like it, it will be popular, and more often than not that means the writing sucks, but jeez, it's Lisa Moore, This book languished in a stack on a to-be-read shelf for almost two years, squashed between a Julian Barnes below and some short story anthology above. It was 31 years ago on Valentine's Day that the Ocean Ranger oil rig sank off the coast of Newfoundland, killing all aboard. 31 years later, on Valentine's Day yesterday, February won the Canada Reads award. (Oh crap, now the masses will like it, it will be popular, and more often than not that means the writing sucks, but jeez, it's Lisa Moore, she's a good writer. She has cred!) I kept putting it off, fearing the mawkishness that was sure to fill the pages of a book about a widow of one of the dead crewmen. But that's not how it turned out. This isn't about wallowing in grief and outrage. It rises above that. The narrative skips around in time, both directly and indirectly as memories and dreams. This seems ideal for this type of story, because the present is so pregnant with the past. Very slowly the widow Helen begins to weave the future into her existence. The structure, the architecture were great, but what I enjoyed the most was Moore's expressive prose. The effortless hyper-realism of her descriptions brought it to life, and overarching it all were quiet wisdoms and simple but profound insights. Lovely. ...more Brilliantly constructed vision of one woman's grief in the wake of her husbands death, when the oil rig he works on sinks into the sea, leaving her regnant and with three children to raise. Interspersed with her stages of grief, is the call from her son John, flying back from Tasmania via New York bearing news that he is to become a father for the first time, a role he has spent all his adult years avoiding, until a chance week in Iceland with Jane, a woman who had been equally set on avoiding be Brilliantly constructed vision of one woman's grief in the wake of her husbands death, when the oil rig he works on sinks into the sea, leaving her regnant and with three children to raise. Interspersed with her stages of grief, is the call from her son John, flying back from Tasmania via New York bearing news that he is to become a father for the first time, a role he has spent all his adult years avoiding, until a chance week in Iceland with Jane, a woman who had been equally set on avoiding becoming a mother. It was never overly melancholic, although Helen's recollections and reconstructions of what may have happened to her husband in those last minutes, her studying of the manuals to understand how to resolve the problem that caused the sinking reminded me somewhat of Joan Didion's The Year of Magical Thinking (2005) , however life continues around Helen and those narratives reminded me of the work of Anne Tyler , and so we seesaw between the practical elements of daily life and the introspection of a death that stays with someone their entire life and in those still moments, returns as potently, as if it were yesterday. Highly recommended. ...more FEBRUARY is a story of real people - people who love, laugh, argue, shop at WalMart and Value Village and raise their children in the best way that they know how. FEBRUARY is also a story of loss and grief - grief that is not of the moment, but rather of the decades. It is the story of three generations: Helen O*Mara and her husband Cal who perished with the Ocean Ranger, their four children - John, Cathy, Lulu and Gabrielle - and their children. The novel has a complex structure where the past and pres FEBRUARY is a story of real people - people who love, laugh, argue, shop at WalMart and Value Village and raise their children in the best way that they know how. FEBRUARY is also a story of loss and grief - grief that is not of the moment, but rather of the decades. It is the story of three generations: Helen O*Mara and her husband Cal who perished with the Ocean Ranger, their four children - John, Cathy, Lulu and Gabrielle - and their children. The novel has a complex structure where the past and present blend - sometimes within a single sentence. The past, the sinking of the Ocean Ranger in 1984, continually intrudes upon the present as Helen lives her life under a cloud of grief and survivor guilt. But Lisa Moore does not allow her characters to wallow in their grief nor does her book at any time descend into sentimentality. Her characters are tough as befits the reputation of Newfoundlanders. Helen O*Mara and her children work through their daily battles and emerge stronger human beings. This is a wonderful book of courage and sacrifice. The reader will come away from it with a renewed sense of hope and faith in the future. ...more I am an unabashed fangirl for all things Newfoundland (fussy weather, knitting traditions, and a diet of rum, potatoes, and bologna? Marry me Newfoundland!) and when I'm Queen everyone will have to visit St. John's at least once. I loved this book and I hope more people read it. February caught my attention before it was nominated for Canada Reads in 2013. I'm sorry It took me so long to read it. It's a sweet story of family who lost their patriarch, Cal, when the Ocean's Ranger sunk in 1982. I th I am an unabashed fangirl for all things Newfoundland (fussy weather, knitting traditions, and a diet of rum, potatoes, and bologna? Marry me Newfoundland!) and when I'm Queen everyone will have to visit St. John's at least once. I loved this book and I hope more people read it. February caught my attention before it was nominated for Canada Reads in 2013. I'm sorry It took me so long to read it. It's a sweet story of family who lost their patriarch, Cal, when the Ocean's Ranger sunk in 1982. I think the metaphor Moore creates among the O'Mara family parallels Newfoundland economic recovery apres-Crosby. John, the only son goes to Fort MacMurray to build a career in Oil and Gas (specifically Non Destructive Testing, which you can study online at SAIT! A link is below!) and the sub-tragedy of Newfoundland culture being siphoned away by the west. Moore's story is one of hope and how the family eventually puts itself together again, perhaps like Newfoundland has since the collapse of the cod fishery. It's really lovely and I looked forward to coming home to this book everyday. I have memories of seeing Knowlton Nash explaining the news - that the North Sea had swallowed the Ocean Ranger and the poor 84 souls on board in the middle of the night on Valentine's Day. Such a tragedy - those poor families. The Ocean Ranger was Canada's worst disaster at sea since WW2. As an aside, I thought I had read that Allan Hawco has bought the rights to turn February into a film. I was mistaken - it was Lisa Moore's Caught. I do hope someone shares this story and turns February into a film, and I hope that they cast Ryan Gosling as Cal. The Science of the Ocean Ranger: https://youtu.be/hxyCpoyikrw Found Photos of life on Ocean Ranger http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/newfoun... Non-Destructive Testing http://www.sait.ca/programs-and-cours... Book 4 of 17 in 2016 ...more This story swept me away and touched me very deeply. It was chosen as a Canada Reads selection by CBC radio and that was why I picked it up. As a Canadian in my fifties, of course I remember when the oil rig Ocean Ranger sank in 1982. This book takes the tragedy to the personal level and examines the subsequent life of a widow who is left to raise her four children after her husband dies. Moore describes loneliness: \"She is as alone and cold and obdurately dull as the tree in her backyard, as the This story swept me away and touched me very deeply. It was chosen as a Canada Reads selection by CBC radio and that was why I picked it up. As a Canadian in my fifties, of course I remember when the oil rig Ocean Ranger sank in 1982. This book takes the tragedy to the personal level and examines the subsequent life of a widow who is left to raise her four children after her husband dies. Moore describes loneliness: \"She is as alone and cold and obdurately dull as the tree in her backyard, as the fender of a car under the street light, as the apple in the bowl on the kitchen table, as the church across the street, as the steeple covered on one side with snow; she is not Helen, and who is Helen?\" She describes the husband's death: \"When the wall closes over Cal, he will be like a fly in amber, a riddle of time, a museum piece. He will lose the desire for escape. The obsession with living will seem like a dalliance to him then. Stillness will be the new thing.\" The experience of trying to date again: \"There had been a hole in the centre of the dining room and all the things a man and woman could say to each other had dropped into the hole, and it had closed over, and the new hardwood floor gleamed shiny and mute.\" I hope these quotes show in some degree the magnificance of Moore's writing and her ability to make you feel, and see, and understand. Canada read this book. I read this book. Maybe you should read it, too. ...more In February Lisa Moore drives me to distraction with her dialog. No one has conversations. Words are just launching pads to daytime reveries and thoughtful meanderings. \"That'll stain if you don't get at it.\" Helen loved her kids. Maybe John best of all. He was far flung and wide ranging ...and here follows a page and a half recounting of a failed attempt to put together a crib and a story of a dog running in the wet sand. \"Maybe a little water will set it right.\" Another page and a half likely sho In February Lisa Moore drives me to distraction with her dialog. No one has conversations. Words are just launching pads to daytime reveries and thoughtful meanderings. \"That'll stain if you don't get at it.\" Helen loved her kids. Maybe John best of all. He was far flung and wide ranging ...and here follows a page and a half recounting of a failed attempt to put together a crib and a story of a dog running in the wet sand. \"Maybe a little water will set it right.\" Another page and a half likely shot through with rich metaphor and deeply layered meaning that I read as a \"buying groceries is hard\" I would read the hell out of a Lisa Moore short story. She could write about a mother walking with her son through winter snow. She would capture the way the light hits the snow, flattening the shadows and it would be so damn Canadian I swear I'd be able to hear the Hinterland Who's Who theme. With an entire book I find myself admiring individual pages beautifully rendered but finding the ending to simply be the absence of additional pages to read. ...more Lisa Moore\u2019s \u2018February\u2019 is not unlike listening to a particularly evocative piece of music. Each sentence is exquisitely composed with exact, appropriate words lined up in the perfect order. Her writing is beautiful on the reader's \"ear\" so to speak, and the images it calls forth are vivid and detailed. The novel has no particular sequenced narrative but repeatedly takes the reader from era to era, and back again, in protagonist, Helen Omara\u2019s life before and after the death of her husband, a vi Lisa Moore\u2019s \u2018February\u2019 is not unlike listening to a particularly evocative piece of music. Each sentence is exquisitely composed with exact, appropriate words lined up in the perfect order. Her writing is beautiful on the reader's \"ear\" so to speak, and the images it calls forth are vivid and detailed. The novel has no particular sequenced narrative but repeatedly takes the reader from era to era, and back again, in protagonist, Helen Omara\u2019s life before and after the death of her husband, a victim of the sinking of an oil rig, Ocean Ranger, off the coast of Newfoundland. Moores's device unfolds as a sequence of sharply defined scenes and deeply felt experiences from one family\u2019s world. As such it builds up a powerful impression of what it must be like to be Helen, with minute details of her exterior world and tremendously moving passages that bear witness to her rich but harrowing interior world. There were times when I became perhaps a little too aware of the writing craft. Does that mean that Moore\u2019s brilliance is too self-conscious? Maybe, but it\u2019s a small quibble. I also sometimes found parts too repetitive \u2014 the same thought or event described several different ways \u2014 which was doubtless purposefully wrought, but almost made me skim over a paragraph or two. I never did, which is a testament to the leeway one is prepared to give to such a marvelous writer. Or, as Richard Ford, describes her on the cover of the book, \u201cAn astonishing writer.\u201d I thought the last section made for a remarkably powerful ending to the book, one of the best \u201cconclusions\u201d I\u2019ve ever encountered. If the book had been a lesser one it would have been worth reading for those last paragraphs. But, as it is, \u2018February\u2019 is worth reading for almost every single sentence. ...more Had I not found out about February through the CBC's Canada Reads top 40 Canadian books list, it is doubtful that I ever would have picked it up. I'm not much in to slow-paced books without a strong storyline or intense characters. But, because of its rave reviews, and an understanding that it is important to break custom once in a while, I gave it a go. Although I'm not likely to recommend it to anyone that is not grieving a profound loss, I'd say I still enjoyed certain elements of the story. Had I not found out about February through the CBC's Canada Reads top 40 Canadian books list, it is doubtful that I ever would have picked it up. I'm not much in to slow-paced books without a strong storyline or intense characters. But, because of its rave reviews, and an understanding that it is important to break custom once in a while, I gave it a go. Although I'm not likely to recommend it to anyone that is not grieving a profound loss, I'd say I still enjoyed certain elements of the story. At its core this is a story about bereavement, and how the occurrence of bad weather and senseless errors can turn a life upside down. Lisa Moore\u2019s depictions of feeling \u2018outside\u2019 of the reality that continues to plug on in the aftermath of tragedy, how loneliness or flashbacks to happy times can pull you away from the surface and hold you hostage deep in your mind, will leave anyone who hasn\u2019t experienced such loss, with a palpable understanding of its destruction. The prose can be choppy and the narrative disjointed, as it skips back and forth between past and present, but if you're patient you'll find the flow. All in all, there were times when I found the story repetitive and exhausting, but I soldiered through in a few sittings, and by the end I was glad that I had read it. ...more This book held me prisoner, or should I say captive. Not often (if ever) has one book raised such emotions. It was like the feeling in the pit of your stomach after you have had a good cry, but are still in the throws of the upset. Helen is 30, has three children and is expecting another baby but is not aware of it yet. Her husband died in an terrible storm while working off the coast of Newfoundland. The writing is uniquely different. I couldn't place it at first, but I think you might say \"easte This book held me prisoner, or should I say captive. Not often (if ever) has one book raised such emotions. It was like the feeling in the pit of your stomach after you have had a good cry, but are still in the throws of the upset. Helen is 30, has three children and is expecting another baby but is not aware of it yet. Her husband died in an terrible storm while working off the coast of Newfoundland. The writing is uniquely different. I couldn't place it at first, but I think you might say \"eastern Canada\". Its beautiful and it takes you right away into a different world and culture, which you become part of. You are with Helen, and her sister Louise, every step of the way. ...more This book was beautifully written and I'm always happy to read a book set in Newfoundland. Having said that, there was something about the story that felt a bit flat. I enjoyed reading it but did not love it. review to follow. I don't remember the sinking of the Ocean Ranger off Newfoundland in 1982, but I was only 14 at the time (such a self-involved age). I had, just the year before, gone on a band exchange with a girl from St. John's, and she and her family were warm and funny and generous people. They didn't seem to have that much, but as they drove me around, proudly showing off the city that they loved, it was apparent that they had everything that mattered. With this frame of reference, I should really have bee I don't remember the sinking of the Ocean Ranger off Newfoundland in 1982, but I was only 14 at the time (such a self-involved age). I had, just the year before, gone on a band exchange with a girl from St. John's, and she and her family were warm and funny and generous people. They didn't seem to have that much, but as they drove me around, proudly showing off the city that they loved, it was apparent that they had everything that mattered. With this frame of reference, I should really have been more aware of this real life disaster, and it may have been within this frame of reference that I found myself sobbing, barely able to read the words through the tears, at several points as I read this book. Although you know pretty much right away that Helen loses her husband Cal in the disaster, when this scene happens, I could barely get through it: (view spoiler) [Somehow Helen had picked up on the idea that there was such a thing as love, and she had invested fully in it. She had summoned everything she was, every little tiny scrap of herself, and she'd handed it over to Cal and said: This is yours. She said, Here's a gift for you, buddy. Helen didn't say, Be careful with it, because she knew Cal would be careful. She was twenty and you could say she didn't know any better. That's what she says herself: I didn't know any better. But that was the way it had to be. She could not hold back. She wasn't that kind of person; there was no holding back Somewhere Helen had picked up the idea that love was this: You gave everything. It wasn't just dumb luck that Cal knew what the gift was worth; that's why she gave it to him in the first place. She could tell he was the kind of guy who would. Her father-in-law, Dave O'Mara, had identified Cal's body. He told her this over the phone. I wanted to catch you, he said. Helen had known there wasn't any hope. But she felt faint when she heard Dave O'Mara's voice. She had to hold on to the kitchen counter. She didn't faint because she had the children in the house and the bath was running. It gave me a turn, her father-in-law said. I'll tell you that much. There were long stretches in the phone call where neither of them said anything. Dave O'Mara wasn't speaking because he didn't know he wasn't speaking. He could see before him whatever he'd seen when he looked at his dead son, and he thought he was telling her all of that. But he was in his own kitchen staring silently at the floor. \u2026 Helen lost her peripheral vision. She could see a spot about the size of a dime in a field of black. She tried to focus on the surface of the kitchen table. It was a varnished pine table they\u2019d bought at a yard sale, and in that little circle she could see the grain of wood and a glare of overhead light. She had willed the spot to open wider so she could take in the bowl with the apples and the side of the fridge and the linoleum, and then the window and the garden. Her scalp was tingling and a drip of sweat ran from her hairline down her temple. Her face was damp with sweat as if she\u2019d been running. \u2026 Helen was in a panic as if something very bad was going to happen, but it had already happened. It was hard to take in that it had already happened . Why was she in a panic? It was as if she had split in half. Something bad was going to happen to her; and then there was the other her, the one who knew it had already happened. It was a mounting and useless panic and she did not want to faint. But she was being flooded with the truth. It wasn't going to happen; it had already happened. You don't want to see him, Dave said. \u2026 Dave kept talking and didn't know he was talking, but it was also an effort to talk; Helen could tell. Dave sucked in air through his teeth the way someone does when he is lifting something heavy. He kept saying the same things. He kept saying about holding Cal's hand. Not to worry about the ring. She would get the ring, he'd make sure. That Cal's glasses were in his pocket. That Cal had on a plaid flannel shirt. The receiver felt sweaty and it was dark early in the afternoon because it was February, and it would be dark for a long time. It was silent out in the dark except for the wind knocking the tree branches together. (hide spoiler) ] I wish I had the room to copy out every scene referring to Helen's loss, because they were touching and brutal and beautiful and relentless-- I think relentless is the most appropriate adjective because, although I have never suffered this kind of a loss, I can imagine that it is the unrelenting nature of grief that most debilitates a person; the moments when you have forgotten to remember that central loss, some rare moment of peace, when suddenly, wham, it all comes flooding back, fresh and horrifying, and conveying that experience is what Lisa Moore achieves in February . In addition to the story, the themes, that overwhelmed me while reading this book, I was also astounded by the craftsmanship of the writing. The beautiful turns of phrase, the nimble interspersing of present and past, even the use of colons and semi-colons made me stop and marvel at their inclusion-- making me wonder if they were used in specific places simply to make me go back to parse why they had been placed in exactly the place they sat, rereading key phrases, as though the author knew she would be forcing me to pay closer attention. I was also stunned by several small scenes that so perfectly described a mundane type experience that I had to reread them, just to see how Moore had achieved such simple perfection. An example of what I mean: (view spoiler) [The one woman at the table full of men, her mouth full, raises her escargot prong, a wet grey slug hanging from the end. She has slug in her mouth and her lips are glossy with slug juice. John is surprised to find this erotic. Butter. It is garlic butter that makes the woman's chin greasy, and she is trying to get the men to shut up\u2026 Butter and the sweat of a boiled organism, all muscle. John tries to think of a muscle in the human body that is the same size as a slug. Natalie is bobbing in her seat and waving the little fork. The men wait. One by one, they fall into an agitated silence\u2026 Natalie Bateman puts her fingers over her mouth and chews and chews and rolls her eyes comically because this is a table of men held up by a miniature fork. Her eyes water and she takes a gulp of champagne and John sees she is beautiful\u2026He watches her wrinkle her nose when she drinks from the champagne glass. (hide spoiler) ] More personally, as the mother of girls, I could identify with the following passage, and am encouraged that I will survive the natural loss of them from my everyday life: (view spoiler) [The girls left hair on the sink and in the drain, and they shaved their legs and left a ring of grey scum around the bathtub, and they talked on the phone, and the parties they threw, the cold smell of cigarette smoke in the morning and beer and all the windows open, the freezing air coming in. And they fought with each other, her girls; they bickered. A hairbrush hit the wall, someone borrowed someone's something or other without asking. Where's my new sweater? She took my sweater. But just let someone outside the family make a disparaging remark. Just let some outsider say something about one or the other of the girls and see how they flew together, to defend. They took care of one another. there was the worry of them driving with drunk boys, the worry of illness or no date for the prom, or they wanted expensive things for Christmas or their birthdays, or there was some injustice with a teacher, some threat of expulsion, or they wanted a job or someone wanted to marry them. And then, without warning, they were gone. They had all grown into their own lives, and it was very quiet. Helen had thought she would have to claw her way out of that quiet, and then, very soon after, she was grateful for it. (hide spoiler) ] This is my first 5 star book of 2013, and it earns every stellated point of it. A work of perfection, not least of all, because it made me feel . ...more Even though I JUST finished this novel, I feel like I read it in a fog of some sort. Kind of like, have you ever answered your phone half asleep and had a five-minute conversation with someone, only to remember a vague outline of what you just discussed? Where I give Lisa Moore three stars is for the story itself. I feel as though she got so caught up in the WAY she was telling it (jumping back and forth between character narratives, hopping around from decade to decade) that she let the story g Even though I JUST finished this novel, I feel like I read it in a fog of some sort. Kind of like, have you ever answered your phone half asleep and had a five-minute conversation with someone, only to remember a vague outline of what you just discussed? Where I give Lisa Moore three stars is for the story itself. I feel as though she got so caught up in the WAY she was telling it (jumping back and forth between character narratives, hopping around from decade to decade) that she let the story get TOO caught up in the past, saving the future for literally the last 10 pages. And while I know this book is about a woman who has never gotten over the death of her husband (a death that came on a cold winter night with dozens of others aboard an oil rig off Newfoundland), Moore pretty much beats us over the head with the fact. Hereeeee comes the BUT... BUT, where I give Lisa Moore FIVE stars is for the way she writes. I read this book in chunks here and there over the past week, and I've concluded that is precisely the way it should be read. Because if you plow through its pages, the richness of these details will be lost on you. Those descriptive scenes will feel like a chore to get through instead of moments to be savored. And you'll miss the enjoyment of Lisa Moore's bird's-eye view on life, feeling as though you are there with her as she listens and observes and makes notes for her novel. Consider how she describes what one of her characters witnesses entering a Toronto pizza shop: \"The walls of the narrow pizza shop are mirrored and the lone customer leans into his pizza slice, and as he bends forward his image splits where the mirrors meet in the corner and there he is, an infinite number of times, his woolen coat and plaid scarf, pulling a piece of pizza away from his mouth, thousands of him, an indefatigable army of the same man having to lean forward after his food...\" Have you, or have you not, BEEN IN THIS PIZZA SHOP BEFORE? But, no way could you write a sentence that gorgeous, right? And THAT is what I love about Lisa Moore's writing. It was this thread of fly-on-the-wall scene-setting that pulled me through \"February\"'s otherwise halfhazard plot. And while I took a go at Moore earlier for Helen's constant heartache, I will say, on certain pages of this book, Moore writes on the subject with such honesty and grace her words make you want to melt. To illustrate, I'll end with this scene, one in which Helen is contemplating online dating at the urging of her daughters (four children she was left to raise after becoming a widow): \"If she had been honest she would have asked: Could you be my dead husband for an afternoon. Could you put on his clothes, I still have them. Will you wear the cologne he wore. Will you smoke Export As, just for an afternoon. Will you drink India beer and burn the steaks on the barbecue, will you be funny and tell jokes and leave groceries for the family down the road who have no groceries. Could you be Cal?\" Hauntingly beautiful, no? ...more A stunning and at times haunting read, which had be lost in some of the passages throughout the book. It will easily be one of my favourite reads of the year. There were many times I was completely lost in the writing and the passages throughout the book, the author is a spectacular writer and I found myself constantly making notes on many passages throughout the book - sometimes two or three on the same page. It was absolutely stunning and it helped the reader get inside Helen's mind and almos A stunning and at times haunting read, which had be lost in some of the passages throughout the book. It will easily be one of my favourite reads of the year. There were many times I was completely lost in the writing and the passages throughout the book, the author is a spectacular writer and I found myself constantly making notes on many passages throughout the book - sometimes two or three on the same page. It was absolutely stunning and it helped the reader get inside Helen's mind and almost feel the emotions and psychological turmoil she was going through. The author did a fantastic job at showing this heartbreak and loss of her husband, its affect on the world around Helen and those around her. I found it to be an emotional book and I was becoming invested with Helen and how her life would turn out. The parts focusing on her husband and the oil rig were haunting - I almost wish there had been a little more on what had really happened when the oil rig went down. Although I do prefer the way the author choose to mainly focus on Helen. Helen's voice telling the story, her reactions, what went through her mind and was a fantastic way to tell the story and I think it probably made it that much more intriguing, as there is always the unknown lurking in the readers minds on what happened in the last moments of the oil rig. It also created a well developed character in Helen, which added to the whole reading experience. John's parts were one of my only issues for this book. His storyline kind of slowed the natural flow down, and I didn't exactly like him as a character. I wish the focus on him was less than it was, and more on Helen's story but he was still a character who was well developed, I just wasn't a particular fan of him. In the end, it was an excellent read which has me looking forward to reading more works from the author. Also on my book review blog Jules' Book Reviews - February ...more \"Have you ever tried to figure out the difference between what you are ... and what you have to become?\" This is just one of many questions and puzzles that Lisa Moore presents her readers in February. For the most part, this book is an enjoyable read. If you want a chronological narrative, with a clear arch of a story, this book is not for you. If, however, you step back and realize that the central core of the novel is of a horrendous disaster that occurred on Valentine's Day, 1982, at that thi \"Have you ever tried to figure out the difference between what you are ... and what you have to become?\" This is just one of many questions and puzzles that Lisa Moore presents her readers in February. For the most part, this book is an enjoyable read. If you want a chronological narrative, with a clear arch of a story, this book is not for you. If, however, you step back and realize that the central core of the novel is of a horrendous disaster that occurred on Valentine's Day, 1982, at that this day set in motion multiple reactions of people's hearts and minds that stretch forward to the present, and also rebounds in people's memories prior to the central event, then you will be grounded. The sinking of the oil platform strikes the motif of water in this novel. Newfoundland is an island, thus surrounded by water, one of the central character's is the father of a child conceived in Iceland, another island, and when that woman's water breaks nine months later, a new life is born, one that will, in part, replace the loss of the new child's grandfather lost when the the oil rig sank on that faithful February day. Cal, the man who lost his life that fateful day was a man who feared water, and decades later his wife finally remarries and realizes her life is born again, as she watches her new husband emerge from the ocean on their honeymoon. And so the question posed of what a person is to become is partially answered by Lisa Moore. Essential, also is the title of this novel. February. Just as most people know where they were on November 22nd, 1963, and again in July 1969, and then again on September 11th, 2001, so every Newfoundlander knows where they were on February 14th, 1982. The novel February is a novel of time and place, and how people remain locked into a specific time and place but yet must still move beyond that selfsame location. The novel's style reflects the jumbled moments of a person's life, the style accentuates the jagged edges that record our days and ultimately the style enfolds us into the chaos that is existence. ...more Again, Moore's prose is lovely. She's got a gift for being poetic without descending into overwrought emotionalism. And I love her ear for the salty tang of Newfoundland English. Moore has certainly captured the devestation - and even the terror - of the Ocean Ranger disaster. Her descriptions of the rig's last moments, and the men in the water, are gut-wrenching. I did feel like some of her transitions could be better, particularly in the beginning. There were times when I didn't know what, or Again, Moore's prose is lovely. She's got a gift for being poetic without descending into overwrought emotionalism. And I love her ear for the salty tang of Newfoundland English. Moore has certainly captured the devestation - and even the terror - of the Ocean Ranger disaster. Her descriptions of the rig's last moments, and the men in the water, are gut-wrenching. I did feel like some of her transitions could be better, particularly in the beginning. There were times when I didn't know what, or who, to focus on because she didn't give us any signs; other times, I ran smack into great big billboards advertising the change. These could have been smoothed out. Towards the end of the book, though, she got better or I accustomed myself to the style, because it stopped bothering me. One of my two criticisms of the books is that I wanted more dialogue. Moore uses it so sparingly and, even when she does, it's often folded into the larger narration. It gets lost. I also wanted more distinction between the characters when they did speak - they all sounded roughly the same in my head. I feel like the way we communicate, the words we choose to use, reveal a lot about who we are. Our manner of speaking, our linguistic quirks, our tone of voice - these are all part of what we present to the world and, for me, it was missing in February. I couldn't hear the characters, couldn't distinguish between them when I did, and it distanced me from them. In some books, this wouldn't be as much of an issue. But here, all the action - the most dramatic events - have already happened, and the only ocnnection we have to them is through these characters. I wanted to be closer. My second criticism is that I didn't buy the ending. It happened too fast, and I had no indication that Helen was truely interested in Barry. As far as I could tell, she thought he was attractive, nothing more. Certainly not someone she'd want to marry. Having said all that, I think it's a remarkable book. Moore packs an enormous emotional punch in less than 200 pages. Give it a try. ...more Lisa Moore has marked herself as one of Canada's best authors in 2013. Not only was her gripping new book \"Caught\" put on the short list for the Giller Prize, but this emotionally powerful 2009 novel won this years CBC Canada Reads award. This is a beautifully structured and deftly written collision with tragedy and death. The focus is a loving but vulnerable woman, Helen, whose husband Cal dies with 83 other oil rig workers in the 1982 Ocean Ranger sinking off Newfoundland -- leaving her with f Lisa Moore has marked herself as one of Canada's best authors in 2013. Not only was her gripping new book \"Caught\" put on the short list for the Giller Prize, but this emotionally powerful 2009 novel won this years CBC Canada Reads award. This is a beautifully structured and deftly written collision with tragedy and death. The focus is a loving but vulnerable woman, Helen, whose husband Cal dies with 83 other oil rig workers in the 1982 Ocean Ranger sinking off Newfoundland -- leaving her with four young children to raise. This is on one level the brave story of her toughening battle to overcome poverty and loneliness in the years that follow. And on another level this is an account of Helen's attempts to think fully through her understanding of what has taken place and then to continue somehow to live. This description may suggest a morose and dispiriting book, but that is not the case. Helen has a stubborn vitality that makes her an endearing character -- when she is struggling with the clutch to learn to drive or chasing young bullies into the waves to protect her small son. The rich texture of Newfoundland life and the diversity of its people shine out from all the pages of this novel. \"Caught\" is a book with a compelling plot, while that is less the case with \"February.\" But this book digs more deeply into the heart and soul of its central character. The result is a very fine novel -- and a fierce dissection of love and death and tragedy in our secular society. ...more I happened upon this author when reading reviews of her newest book. As I looked at her previous titles, I realized she lives in and infuses her work with the Newfoundland city of St. John's, which just happens to be where one of my daughters is currently living. Of course I had to start with this book, since it is, after all, February. I had never heard of the Ocean Ranger disaster, but I began to learn about it through this book and was even inspired to dig a little further and find out more. I happened upon this author when reading reviews of her newest book. As I looked at her previous titles, I realized she lives in and infuses her work with the Newfoundland city of St. John's, which just happens to be where one of my daughters is currently living. Of course I had to start with this book, since it is, after all, February. I had never heard of the Ocean Ranger disaster, but I began to learn about it through this book and was even inspired to dig a little further and find out more. If you, too, want to learn more, a documentary was made in 2002 and is on Youtube, in six parts: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zc-gEt... The disaster is Ms. Moore's vehicle for exploring how death, especially an untimely death, affects the lives of those who lose a loved one. Others have outlined the plot of the book, so I won't repeat that. I only need to say that I became so engrossed with the characters, I was thinking of them and carrying the book with me, trying to devise more occasions to read. I haven't been so besotted with a book since I don't know when. The writing is well-considered, precise, and oh so wise. The sections may seem fragmented at first, as they skip between characters and points in time. As the novel proceeds, this begins to feel very natural, just the way a human brain works. Each little piece reveals more of the story, so it unfolds in incredible depth. I loved this book so much, I have already begun reading another by her. ...more I may have rated this book more highly had she not used the strange chapter jumps or whatever they may be called. I can't help but think it is an author weakness to do so as unable to maintain a narrative momentum otherwise. I am now reading her 2005 novel Alligator so may be unfair to compare. Although it also jumps between separate characters, repeatedly. Am only just started and may sign off without finishing if it is too annoying. There are too many good books to read without convincing myse I may have rated this book more highly had she not used the strange chapter jumps or whatever they may be called. I can't help but think it is an author weakness to do so as unable to maintain a narrative momentum otherwise. I am now reading her 2005 novel Alligator so may be unfair to compare. Although it also jumps between separate characters, repeatedly. Am only just started and may sign off without finishing if it is too annoying. There are too many good books to read without convincing myself to read one slightly irritating structurally. I really thought her thoughts regarding death, survival of death or after a loved one's death were original, interesting, and believable. She was able to develop John as a character in addition to Helen, and all this despite the jumping back and forth between characters and years. I wished she had not done so and felt it would have been a tremendous novel otherwise, but this was a little too distracting to me. And I absoultely hate this cover- struck a discordant note every time I opened or closed this book. Luckily it was a fast read. Talk about false advertising- I know it is superficial, but a cover draws me in or repels me, falsely at times. I wonder how many great books I have missed due to unappetizing or offputting covers. Had I not remembered a New Yorker review or maybe a NY Times review mentioning this specific novel, I would not have picked this up in my library, certainly not in paperback . Oh well. ...more February is a cold and biting account of life after tragedy. Helen's husband drowned when the Ocean Ranger sunk off the coast of Newfoundland in 1980. Helen was left with three children, an unknown pregnancy, and the empty space her husband left behind. Jumping in and out of the present, and mostly from Helen's perspective (though not exclusively), this story shows how people still leave lasting imprints long after they have left our world. This is the personal account of a tragedy - completely s February is a cold and biting account of life after tragedy. Helen's husband drowned when the Ocean Ranger sunk off the coast of Newfoundland in 1980. Helen was left with three children, an unknown pregnancy, and the empty space her husband left behind. Jumping in and out of the present, and mostly from Helen's perspective (though not exclusively), this story shows how people still leave lasting imprints long after they have left our world. This is the personal account of a tragedy - completely separate from the tales the newspaper headlines tell. And when the story is no longer newsworthy and the tragedy falls out of the collective consciousness, it lives on in the family. I think I enjoyed this book more upon finishing it than I did while I was reading it. Like the month, February is stark and cold and sometimes stormy and sometimes bare. It isn't necessarily enjoyable to read. But upon finishing, I realize how expertly crafted this book is. I would not recommend February to everyone. It is not a simple, easy, fluffy read. But it is stunning in its own way. This book would be lovely for anyone interested in Canadian Literature and in love with fabulous literature. ...more How do you live with the loss of a loved one? How do you cope with the long stretch of emptiness in the years to come? Helen in February has lived that nightmare, and Lisa Moore has written it so well that you feel every moment of it. The word that kept coming to mind as I read this book is \"elegiac\", although the main character, Helen, is not dead. The story picks apart the life of Helen, whose husband died aboard the oil platform the Ocean Ranger in 1982, leaving her to raise four children -- one still in the womb. Although it is fiction, it feels so true. The life is like a broken mirror, each shard reflecting the light sometime bright, some dark and tinged with blood. The prose is beautiful, her descriptions of the everyd The word that kept coming to mind as I read this book is \"elegiac\", although the main character, Helen, is not dead. The story picks apart the life of Helen, whose husband died aboard the oil platform the Ocean Ranger in 1982, leaving her to raise four children -- one still in the womb. Although it is fiction, it feels so true. The life is like a broken mirror, each shard reflecting the light sometime bright, some dark and tinged with blood. The prose is beautiful, her descriptions of the everyday and the ordinary bring those things into such sparkling focus that at moments it can hurt the eyes. There is a section in the middle, where the heart of the story seems to drown in her own clever writing, but she pulls back from that toward the end and brings the story into focus. On the whole, a beautiful book. It reminds me somewhat of Colm Toibin's Brooklyn in the sense of tracing a little life, but I think this is better. A worthy winner of Canada Reads 2013. ...more This novel follows the life of a fictitious O'Mara family whose husband/father (Cal) was lost in the Ocean Ranger tragedy of 1982. The majority of the novel is from the perspective of the widow (Helen), but some of it is from the perspective of the son. The story of this family is quite compelling, and it draws you in. I really wanted to like this book, but I just couldn't get past the writing style. I'd pick it up, suffer through a chapter or two, and then leave it on the bedside table for anoth This novel follows the life of a fictitious O'Mara family whose husband/father (Cal) was lost in the Ocean Ranger tragedy of 1982. The majority of the novel is from the perspective of the widow (Helen), but some of it is from the perspective of the son. The story of this family is quite compelling, and it draws you in. I really wanted to like this book, but I just couldn't get past the writing style. I'd pick it up, suffer through a chapter or two, and then leave it on the bedside table for another week before I had the mental fortitude to pick it up again. I found that the author chose two elements which, although I somewhat understand the reasoning for doing so, I found very distracting from the story itself. Firstly, the author flits back and forth in time. In one chapter, it's the near-present day. Then it's the 70's, then the near-present day, then the 90's, then the 80's, then back to the near-present day. And so on, and so on. Only the very last chapter is the actual present day. This style gives you the general impression that you're just following Helen's conciousness as it meanders through time. She remembers little vignettes of how she and Cal met, various snippets of their children growing up, segments following the aftermath of the disaster on the rig, and longer moments of how's she's coping on her own now that all her children have grown up and moved out. I could see no rhyme or reason to the sequence of the flashbacks, and it didn't flow well. Secondly, the writing is very casual. There are no quotations to separate speech from thought from narration. It usually only became clear after you finished the sentence or paragraph whether it was something the main character said, or saw, or heard, or thought. The narration is also overly colloquial, using fantastic traditional Newfoundland syntax and diction. Again, this gives the impression that you're just following Helen's conciousness and memories, as opposed to witnessing the events themselves. While both of these elements do give it a more personal feel - it almost feels as if Helen is just telling you her life story in whichever order the various elements drift to the forefront of her mind - I found it very disjointed and unnecessarily gimmicky. I can appreciate that other readers of a more literary persuasion have thoroughly enjoyed this book, and it no doubt deserves all the accolades that it received, but February was not really my cup of tea. ...more Wow. What is it about Canadian writers - lyrical, well written prose, but god, even when trying to write a sort of happy ending (Margaret Atwood has it so right about our literature) it still comes off as depressing. What would have been wrong with telling the story conventionally? If you put all the back and forths in order of timeline I think the lack of depth in the novel becomes easier to see. She writes beautifully - sets the mood skillfully. At the end of the day, the characters - even the Wow. What is it about Canadian writers - lyrical, well written prose, but god, even when trying to write a sort of happy ending (Margaret Atwood has it so right about our literature) it still comes off as depressing. What would have been wrong with telling the story conventionally? If you put all the back and forths in order of timeline I think the lack of depth in the novel becomes easier to see. She writes beautifully - sets the mood skillfully. At the end of the day, the characters - even the one's who have a voice in the novel, aren't well realized. How well do we know Helen? Her life is the absence of Cal. She says the girls never give her trouble, but one becomes a pregnant teen and another goes heavy goth. So how reliable is Helen's voice in the novel? There are beautiful passages, but also ones that made me cringe. Helen's description of making love with Cal is beautiful and depressing both. Helen telling how feels like Cal is calling her to him and that she's betraying him by living - the guilt buries her. How awful is that? So much so that you almost believe Helen has that right, when everything (as far as we can tell) about Cal says that's not what he'd want at all... Or John's description of his parents' marriage...\"How foolish his parents were to love like that. How foolish to have so many children. They had no money. He wants to ask his mother, What were you thinking? Didn't you know what you were getting into? Why did you love each other so very much? It destroyed you. Don't give that much, he wants to say.\" P54 Then the cringe worthy...What is the \"shiny scalded complexion of someone on antidepressants\" ? Bite me. \"There was monstrous sadness in the world, and you had to look it in the eye.\" This from John. And John's ridiculous dream sequence 'a gushing of love' with the Cornish hen. Yeesh ...more<---C>Lisa Moore</---C>", "Title": "February"},
