{"Comments": "If you have ever considered reading the <---C>Anita Blake</---C> series up to this point, let me save you a bit of time, trouble, and heartache by giving you a plot synopsis of this book. Don't worry, I won't spoil anything nor will I get into so much detail that it will be ruined. PLOT: No, really, this book HAS no plot. The blurb burbles about a vampire ballet,<---M> hints at a pregnancy for Anita</---M>, and dances around the topic of the ardeur, but nothing happens in this book. (<---B>Cover blurb author needs a RAISE.</---B>) OK, n If you have ever considered reading the Anita Blake series up to this point, let me save you a bit of time, trouble, and heartache by giving you a plot synopsis of this book. Don't worry, I won't spoil anything nor will I get into so much detail that it will be ruined. PLOT: No, really, this book HAS no plot. The blurb burbles about a vampire ballet, hints at a pregnancy for Anita, and dances around the topic of the ardeur, but nothing happens in this book.<---F> (Cover blurb author needs a RAISE</---F>.) OK, no, I'm wrong. Stuff does happen in this book. If any one of the following is what you want when you pick up a book called \"Anita Blake VAMPIRE HUNTER\": 1. Women bashing. 2. Talking/whinging about a pregnancy and ignoring the real time problems of your \"best friend\" and proceeding to shame her into humiliation and say that SHE is the one who needs therapy. 3. Metaphysical date rape sex that is used to power up individuals like a video game. 4. Talking/whinging about all the metaphysical sex (unprotected, of course) you have with the stripper boyfriends that fall at your feet and all the complicated relationships between all 7 of them. 5. Evil overly sexualized, pyschotic b!tchy women. 6. Petty fights over the resident Mary Sue. 7. Talking about brand-new character's backstories while characters are in the nude or have just come out of the bath. 8. Bad guys who do bad guy things like talk about how much of a bad guy they are. 9. Talking about who should have sex with whom, when, where, why, and how, and whether that makes you a slut or not. 10. Having sex with two new men \"because the ardeur says so\" when you already have six current boyfriends. And everyone (minus the \"unreasonable\" Richard) is totes OK with being naked around all 6 men, being observed while having sex by all 6 men, or even being a part of a menage a trois with all 6 men. If THAT is what you were looking for when you opened up \"Anita Blake VAMPIRE HUNTER\", then you are in luck! The next 500 pages are full of the plotless meanderings of Anita Mary Sue and her Dancing Troupe of Greatly Endowed Male Sex Objects (because Anita is so not into teh gay). If you are like me, and you were kinda hoping to see, oh, I don't know, maybe a ZOMBIE RAISING or a crime scene or *gasp* a vampire execution, you might as well quit now while you're ahead. \"Dance Macabre\" makes \"Incubus Dreams\" look like a tightly plotted masterpiece (well, almost). \"<+++>Danse Macabre</+++>\" is the poorest excuse for a novel that I've seen in a long, long time - well, since \"Incubus Dreams\". It's plotless, pointless, stupid, and insulting. Anita Sue remains the most unlikeable, worst protagonist I've read. She's rude to her friend, she's a hypocrite, she's demanding, she's sexist, she's a misogynist, she has a chip on her shoulder the size of Texas. We spend nearly the entire first chapter Anita Sue whinging about her pregnancy to Ronnie, when all she needs to do is take 5 minutes out of her oh-so hectic day (between screwing every male in sight) to get a pregnancy test. Or - gasp! - make an appointment with the doctor to be tested. There is no reason why Anita Sue must dominate the ENTIRE conversation with her drivel. When Ronnie tries to talk about her feelings about Louis moving in and how she isn't sure she likes it, Anita Sue makes sure to let Ronnie know how inconvenient it is to talk about something other than Anita Sue's problems (I've got a really nice quote from her about Ronnie's \"penis envy\" that you can see in my early updates). And she tells her \"friend\" that A) Ronnie is just a jealous meanie who only wants to land in Nathaniel's pants and B) Ronnie ought to get some therapy. Because Ronnie is silly for not wanting to commit to Louis - even though Anita won't commit to any of her 7 men and has no intentions of doing so. Here lies Veronia \"Ronnie\" Sims, a once great character massacred by the hatred and vitriol of <---A>Laurell K. Hamilton</---A> and her author avatar, Anita Sue. May she forever rest in peace. Anita demands monogamy from her men, but she is allowed to sleep with whomever she wants. If one of the men gets mad like Richard (who is sleeping around himself), he is the one shown to be unreasonable. God Forbid Richard sleep with multiple other women, even though Anita Sue is doing the very same thing with her 7 men. Anita Sue also continues to hate on women, slut-shaming the mistress of the Master of the City of Chicago because \"she's a real whore\" and insulting her intelligence by agreeing she couldn't see Augie having a scintillating conversation with her. And any woman that isn't as masculine as she is is automatically evil - Thea, Meng Die, etc. The exponentially growing cast composed almost entirely of males might as well be all the same person, given how little there is to distinguish them. Richard yells at Anita; Asher whines about not being fulfilled; Nathaniel is a doormat (except when he isn't); Jason makes lewd comments. Other than a couple of words, it's impossible to tell anyone apart! Gone is Anita's \"day job\". Gone are Zerbrowski, Dolph, Burt, or anything resembling her \"normal life\". Instead of zombie raisings and at least an attempt at a paranormal mystery, we have lots and lots of vampire politics and new stupid rules, with Anita Sue constantly asking what is going on or for someone to explain something to her because she can't put two and two together. It's astonishing how little Jean-Claude, the man who has lived with the ardeur for HUNDREDS of years, knows about the damned thing; every time we turn around, Anita Sue uncovers some new plot device that changes the ardeur into a new brand of metaphysical date rape drug. And don't be misled; these sexual encounters are by and large NOT consensual. Anita Sue doesn't want to have sex with Augie and Jean-Claude because that turns her on; no, of course not! We can't have a thing like pesky female sexuality! Instead, the ARDEUR forces her to have sex with them. Only afterwards does she think she likes it. The same for the scene with the new Interchangeable Male Genitalia added to her harem. The same for the menage a trois with Nathaniel and Jason. The same for sex with Asher. They are done because someone needs to be healed (or that stupid Damien must be saved - the number of times Anita Sue has to have sex to save that stupid vampire is ridiculous!) or the ardeur has to be fed or the ardeur was called. It's never because Anita Sue sees a guy and goes, \"Hot dayum, I want that man on me now\" and then gets permission to go ahead and do that. Do not even get me started on the \"pregnancy\" thing or the \"vampire ballet\". Those \"plots\" are laughable. In one of the earlier Anita Sue books, they wouldn't have made even tertiary plots; in this book, they are supposed to carry the story. Both are done terribly; both are disappointing and a waste of time. In some ways what makes this worse is LKH's atrocious writing. Let me share some of the gems I found: \"Hot anger can feel good, but the cold will protect you better.\" \"Samuel's eyes were hazel, pale brown with an edge of greyish green around the pupil. The green shirt brought out more of the green, so his eyes were almost an olive green. But they were definitely hazel, not true green. But then I had high standards for true green eyes. Samuel's eyes were just eyes.\" \"Your feeding on Augie raised my power level.\" \"...the first bite of his power flickered through the room.\" \"My life wouldn't work if I wallowed in every disaster, every moral quandary. I can't afford the luxury of self-doubt.\" (Followed quickly by Anita Sue showing self-doubt in her life to the very person she made this comment to!) \"'Don't yell at Micah!' I yelled at him. 'I'll yell at whoever I want to yell at,' [Richard] yelled.\" \"Now that I was only minutes away from knowing, I wanted to know. No more guesswork. I needed to know. One way I the other, I needed to know. What I didn't know was...\" \"Let me be covered in your silken chains. Tie me down and let me drown in your sweet flesh.\" \"I touched my stomach, so nice and flat with all the exercise.\" \"'She is cold.' Jean-Claude's voice, his hand moving away from my cheek. Cold, yes. I was cold. So cold. Cold down to the core of my being, as if I'd never be warm again.\" \"He fell into that kiss and spilled over the couch.\" \"'I made you both fall in love with me. That's like evil.' 'If you made us fall in love with you but didn't love is back, maybe it would be evil,' Micah said. 'But you do love us back.'\" \"He tried for arrogant disdain.\" But by far the worst has to go hands-down to: \"Richard made a sound, and it made me glance at him. The look on his face made me look where he was looking.\" And then there is the narrator, Cynthia Holloway. I'm sorry, but I just can't stand her. Her voice is grating, she reads all the sex scenes in this ridiculously cheesy \"porn star\" breathy voice, and she cannot do an accent to save her life. Jean-Claude doesn't sound French in the slightest; London wavered between the most cliched \"British\" accent to country-western to faux-French. And most of the rest of the cast pretty much sounded exactly like each other - which maybe, considering how interchangeable the cast is, was a stroke of brilliance. I am surprised that this book ever sold, in hardcover, in paperback, or at all (well, I do get how fans might be duped into buying this - and for those of you fans who paid for hardcover for this, I am so sorry!). This book is pure torture. Did fans really want another plotless mess of a book that spent most of its time talking about sex and vampire political minutiae? Did fans clamor for Anita Sue to acquire TWO MORE MEN to her Male DingDong Dance Card? Were fans begging for Anita Sue to do fewer zombie raisings and spend more time in her underwear or completely undressed having conversations about conversations about conversations? I can't speak for them, but for me, this book made me LONG for the earlier books and the Anita Blake who would have taken one look at Anita Sue and popped her with her Browning. STAY TUNED: Anita Blake BINGO!! ...more You know when you are reading a book series and then there is a really bad book in there, but you keep reading because you think it might get better again? Well, that doesn't happen here. It is obvious that there is no hope for this series to become what it started as. Anita is now a succubus which means she needs to have constant sex in order to survive. Plot device to bring this series into the porn realm? Yes. Overly obvious indulgent bullshit that is clearly the author's fantasy of wanting to You know when you are reading a book series and then there is a really bad book in there, but you keep reading because you think it might get better again? Well, that doesn't happen here. It is obvious that there is no hope for this series to become what it started as. Anita is now a succubus which means she needs to have constant sex in order to survive. Plot device to bring this series into the porn realm? Yes. Overly obvious indulgent bullshit that is clearly the author's fantasy of wanting to have the most beautiful men that ever exist all desiring her and willing to share her - not to mention the blatant way that Richard has become her scapegoat for all of the anger she feels for her ex? Yes. There is no actual plot in this book. Anita is pregnant and there is a vampire ballet company coming into town. That's it. And yet the book is over 900 pages long. At least 800 of those pages is Anita having sex with every single male she comes in contact with. Also, just like the book with the Mexican restaurant that was wrong, there is another blatantly wrong scene in this book. Anita has an ultrasound to see if she is actually pregnant and the doctor runs the wand over her stomach. Um, no. That's not how it works at such an early stage of pregnancy. First off, they have to use the wand that is inserted into your body. Since the author has absolutely no qualms about writing about lady (and men) parts, she could have been more accurate. Secondly, a quick swipe with a wand over the stomach wouldn't be enough for a doctor to just say \"oh, never mind, not pregnant\" when a test said she was. Doctors are weird about ultrasounds and always get a second opinion with conflicting results. And, finally, she didn't even have to drink water first. If there was some miracle ultrasound machine that could pick up her uterus over the stomach to check an early pregnancy, she would have had to have a full bladder to lift up the uterus for an ultrasound. We, who have been there, are very familiar with seeing your first pictures of your baby while wishing we could just pee real quick. It's the first painful joy of many with kids. Does all of that matter? It wouldn't be a big deal if the author wasn't accurate in this stuff if she didn't get so freaking detailed in everything else. She could have just said the ultrasound was done and came back negative, but she went into great detail of what happened in the doctor's office. She also goes into great detail about what everyone is wearing - for pages and pages. She's a detail-oriented writer. And, that's fine - but at least get your facts straight first! I feel like this is the perfect timing for me to just walk away. Goodbye Anita. Have fun with the humping. ...more Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator. A love triangle doesn\u2019t even begin to explain the most interesting relationships that currently complicate her life. Cursed with the ardeur, Blake suffers through an existence as a succubus. Sex to survive, more sex and even more sex. Although, the sex has made the stories interesting, enough is enough. I mean, c\u2019mon .. stop throwing her naked under random characters and slow things down a bit. Anita has her sweeties, stop tossing spontaneous sex scenes. Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator. A love triangle doesn\u2019t even begin to explain the most interesting relationships that currently complicate her life. Cursed with the ardeur, Blake suffers through an existence as a succubus. Sex to survive, more sex and even more sex. Although, the sex has made the stories interesting, enough is enough. I mean, c\u2019mon .. stop throwing her naked under random characters and slow things down a bit. Anita has her sweeties, stop tossing spontaneous sex scenes. What happened to the dripping brains and gruesome murder scenes? I am a succubus. I am a vampire. Maybe not a bloodsucker, but I feed off sex. It isn\u2019t just Damian\u2019s life that can get drained away if I don\u2019t feed. Nathaniel will die. I will die. As always, we have Richard, the Ulfric and leader of the local werewolf pack. As I\u2019ve said before, I don\u2019t much care for his character. I\u2019m sure that having a sad relationship that keeps popping up may be an interesting twist to the story, but I could live without it. \u201cI love you,\u201d he said. \u201cI love you, too,\u201d I said, and meant it. \u201cI hate you, Anita,\u201d he said with almost no change in his voice. \u201cI hate you, too, Richard,\u201d I said, and meant it. ALSO: Richard has informed me he\u2019s shopping for his white picket fence. I\u2019m happy behind my black wrought-iron fence. The one with the pointy spikes on top. White never really was my color. Everything is slammed upside down when Anita finds our she\u2019s pregnant! Pregnant? Wow! Richard proposes, Doctor\u2019s force choking fear into Anita and her sweeties with possible horrible outcomes. How the hell would a child fit in their lives? There are some interesting and new political relationships formed in this book. The end of the book was rushed. I love the scene with Asher, but what happened to everyone else? All in all, I really enjoyed this book. The surprising twists in the book make for an excellent read. Not one of her best books in this series, but definitely in the top 10. I recommend this book to everyone that is reading this series. Make sure to read the books in sequence. Extreme sexual content. Mild to moderate violence. Some disturbing scenes that totally rock but may be sickening to others! I do NOT recommend this book or ANY books that follow in this series to children OR immature adults. Here on out, every book is for adults only! Happy reading! ...more Really enjoy Laurel K. Hamilton and the Anita Blake series. That being said, I really enjoyed the first few books in the series because they were all about kick ass chick and a sorta interesting kinda mystery/thriller conundrum with some hot steamy scenes in the middle. This past book and the few before it seem to be all hot and steamy and very little advancement of the story. I still like Hamilton, but I enjoyed her older stuff much more. This book is a good explanation as to why this book series hasn't been picked up for television or the big screen. Could you imagine sitting through 1 to 2 hours of a movie or show & watching a room packed full of characters dramatically staring at each other, clutching each other, spontaneous fainting, collapsing, gasping and shuddering in a very mellow dramatic way with very little duologue.... All with nothing actually going on? Yeah, neither can I. And when there is dialog, the character This book is a good explanation as to why this book series hasn't been picked up for television or the big screen. Could you imagine sitting through 1 to 2 hours of a movie or show & watching a room packed full of characters dramatically staring at each other, clutching each other, spontaneous fainting, collapsing, gasping and shuddering in a very mellow dramatic way with very little duologue.... All with nothing actually going on? Yeah, neither can I. And when there is dialog, the characters banter back and fourth verbally beating the most minuscule theories and details of their romantic life to death. Past pages upon pages of the uncomfortable and boring bouts of \"ripples of power\" scenes that infest the book.... Hamilton putties the cracks of her book with pages upon pages of pointless and mindless blow jobs, dry humping and Anita donating blood every few chapters. The sex... So disappointing. It's meaningless and anti-climactic. No thrill of the hunt, no pining or hoping, feeding your imagination or build up. It would be nice if we could see Anita having real sex because she wants to not just randomly doing it with every anyone who crosses her path because she has to \"take one for the team\". I wish Hamilton would just let Anita want to have sex, not be forced into a situation where she has to do it The idea of the adure could actually be a really fun fantasy but it's just over-kill and redundant now. This book definitely drove that feeling home for me. Another thing that bothers me is that Hamilton has really ruined Jean-Claude (among others)for me in this book. He was dark, powerful, unpredictable, mysterious, masculine with that hint of femininity that is attractive. Now he comes off (in his relationship with Anita) as weak, complacent, transparent, predictable, feminine and boring. Part of what made his relationship to Anita attractive to me as a reader was the tension, danger and mystery. Besides Nathaniel, I could go on for pages about how I just don't like most of the characters in these books anymore. Basically, I'll keep reading the series (mostly because I can finish a book in 1-2 days no matter how horrible so I at least don't waste a month of my time reading this crap) in hopes I get a glimpse of what I enjoyed about these stories at one time.... But at the same time, I'll never read the books again and I'm happy I'm getting them from the library so they don't take up space on my book shelf. ...more No amount of ridiculously reasoned hardcore porn is worth this. \u2014 If you want to read someone\u2019s repetitive, repetitive, repetitive Mary Sue fantasy about legions of perfect, beautiful, smart, powerful, perfect men either fighting over or adoring, but all fucking, one insecure, shallow, selfish dumbass character, this book is for you. If you don\u2019t demand a storyline to prop up the epic and imminently selfishly immature and needy fantasies of not one but ten Twilight twihards distilled and poured No amount of ridiculously reasoned hardcore porn is worth this. \u2014 If you want to read someone\u2019s repetitive, repetitive, repetitive Mary Sue fantasy about legions of perfect, beautiful, smart, powerful, perfect men either fighting over or adoring, but all fucking, one insecure, shallow, selfish dumbass character, this book is for you. If you don\u2019t demand a storyline to prop up the epic and imminently selfishly immature and needy fantasies of not one but ten Twilight twihards distilled and poured into one vessel, this book is for you. If you have a love of mind-rapingly tedious domestic disputes occurring every 2 pages for 20 pages thereafter, this book is for you. And if you have no sense of intellectual self-preservation, there\u2019s about twenty of these fucking books, all about exactly the same thing; some woman who has to have sex or everyone will die every day. But it\u2019s not weird, even when she has sex with the shapechanger in cat form, because she loves them all vewy, vewy much each in a different \u201cof course you\u2019re not my slave\u201d kind of way, and they\u2019re all like a family. It reminds me of the documentary about the porn industry I saw where one of the spokespeople said, \u201cWe\u2019re all a big family\u201d, directly before anyone with an STD or HIV as a result of that same industry was immediately forgotten and shunned. Oh, and if you like magical shit more than supernatural shit, this storyline (annoying Mary Sue who just wants to be loved who has to have sex all the time with different men whom she all loves and they all adore her or else) can be found in faerie form in the other series by the same author. Get ready to kiss your standards goodbye. ...more I have been a long time fan of Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake Vampire Hunter series. I have reread the books Guilty Pleasures through Obsidian Butterfly - many times. But this book, as with the last one, I doubt I will reread. This one didn't even have a plot and the plot in the last book was thin. Each book I hang hoping and waiting to see if the entertaining characters that the beginning books had will show back up. And if the tough compassionate Anita will be present. But they aren't there I have been a long time fan of Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake Vampire Hunter series. I have reread the books Guilty Pleasures through Obsidian Butterfly - many times. But this book, as with the last one, I doubt I will reread. This one didn't even have a plot and the plot in the last book was thin. Each book I hang hoping and waiting to see if the entertaining characters that the beginning books had will show back up. And if the tough compassionate Anita will be present. But they aren't there. I used to read her books in one evening...not able to put them down. And now this book took me 3 months to get through as it just didn't grab me. Because I couldn't figure out when the plot would kick in. Even the in last chapter I kept hoping that something would come tying it all together to make sense but it didn't happen. Overall the book....is badly written porn type sex. It isn't even erotic or good porn sex. I would like to count how many pages actually don't deal with sex (the act or just the characters discussing sex) because I would be surprised it it was more then 10 pages out of 483. One chapter might be a page an half and all that just having sex. Now I love sex. But the plot of the book, the premise of the book and what made them entertaining was Anita Blake VAMPIRE HUNTER. I loved the chemistry of her and Jean Claude at the beginning but now Jean Claude hardly says anything interesting. The title of this book came from a dance troop that is coming to town. The dance troop doesn't even show up until the last 80 pages and again very weak and more sex of course. So...if you haven't read it and are a fan of this series do know you might be bored by it. I did hear her next book is going to have Edward back in it and some other characters from the past. So that might be interesting...crossing fingers! If you enjoy stories about Vampires and werewolves, please pick up the the early books and you enjoy the stories. EDIT August 2012: I reread this book for the first time since I first read it in 2007. I wanted to reread the whole series as I was behind on reading Hamilton's last 3 books in this series. So I thought what the heck give it another shot. I will say I am upping this from 1 star to 2 stars. Because I guess going in knowing I didn't like the first time - gave me the permission to let go and be okay with not liking it. But instead - I went from total hating the book to being okay. I still stand by everything I said in my above original review. The sex gets just very boring and annoying as time goes on and this book has a lot of it in it. I feel the book lacks everything that I love about the Anita Blake Vampire Hunter books. ...more I hungrily devoured the first several books in this series - they were the ultimate guilty pleasure. An ass-kicking heroine, lots of steamy sensuality, death-defying acts, moral dilemmas, and plenty of supernatural beings to go around. Starting around book 10, the series started to choke, like a car with electrical problems. It was unclear if Ms. Hamilton had lost her direction where Anita Blake was concerned, or if she'd never really had one to begin with. \"<+++>Danse Macabre</+++>\" descends to the level o I hungrily devoured the first several books in this series - they were the ultimate guilty pleasure. An ass-kicking heroine, lots of steamy sensuality, death-defying acts, moral dilemmas, and plenty of supernatural beings to go around. Starting around book 10, the series started to choke, like a car with electrical problems. It was unclear if Ms. Hamilton had lost her direction where Anita Blake was concerned, or if she'd never really had one to begin with. \"Danse Macabre\" descends to the level of boring porn, and I didn't even know there was such a thing. I gave up after two hundred pages, bored nearly to tears by the lack of plot and the constant, very technical sex. It wasn't even hot sex, which for me is like saying a knife fight wasn't an exciting knife fight. It actually takes work to make sex not hot. The entire plot centers around the idea that Anita Blake is compelled for supernatural reasons to have nearly constant sex. And after spending a couple hundred pages reading about said sexual encounters, broken only by lengthy naked discussions about the supernatural reasons for needing to have constant sex, I decided I had more exciting things to do, like cleaning the oven or rearranging my sock drawer. ...more Not going to give a plot summary. Yes there is a plot but no it is not about raising the dead or slaying vampires. I think if you don't go into the book thinking that then you won't be disappointed. This book is about vampire politics and Anita finding out more about her powers. I think this is a book that was supposed to be much longer and that the publisher split into two since Incubus Dreams was so long and people didn't like it. This book is leading up to the party where all the Masters of t Not going to give a plot summary. Yes there is a plot but no it is not about raising the dead or slaying vampires. I think if you don't go into the book thinking that then you won't be disappointed. This book is about vampire politics and Anita finding out more about her powers. I think this is a book that was supposed to be much longer and that the publisher split into two since Incubus Dreams was so long and people didn't like it. This book is leading up to the party where all the Masters of the City come together. I wouldn't be surprised if Belle or the Mother of All Darkness shows up again. I think this book was done in order to build it all up. I'm hoping the next book will be the novella that Ms. Hamilton keeps talking about with Edward. I would recommend this one for true Blake fans so that you can see what powers she has gained or what the vampire political world is about. Yes there is sex in it and yes it's not very good. Yes there's a plot but it's continued in the next one. It's just not the plot most wanted. ...more Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator. A love triangle doesn\u2019t even begin to explain the most interesting relationships that currently complicate her life. Cursed with the ardeur, Blake suffers through an existence as a succubus. Sex to survive, more sex and even more sex. I really liked this book. It is more erotic than I remember her other books being. Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton. This book had a little bit of action and danger, and a whole lo Anita Blake; Vampire Hunter and animator. A love triangle doesn\u2019t even begin to explain the most interesting relationships that currently complicate her life. Cursed with the ardeur, Blake suffers through an existence as a succubus. Sex to survive, more sex and even more sex. I really liked this book. It is more erotic than I remember her other books being. Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton. This book had a little bit of action and danger, and a whole lot of emotional angst and metaphysically enhanced sex. I've got the sense that this book is a connector building up to something very big happening in a later book - that it gives background you'll need to understand the books later on in the series. It certainly seems that LH is not giving her characters peaceful, tranquil lives anytime soon. ...more I really tried to get through this book by just plowing through it but it's wasn't easy. It feels like LKH got a word of the day calendar and this book's word is \"winsome\". She used it for 3 different characters (when they weren't spilling out or over something. And if Anita says any of the following more than 3 times its not a chapter; I don't get it, point it out to me, I'm sorry I'm missing something here or could you just tell me I'm not following you. She solves murders in the earlier books I really tried to get through this book by just plowing through it but it's wasn't easy. It feels like LKH got a word of the day calendar and this book's word is \"winsome\". She used it for 3 different characters (when they weren't spilling out or over something. And if Anita says any of the following more than 3 times its not a chapter; I don't get it, point it out to me, I'm sorry I'm missing something here or could you just tell me I'm not following you. She solves murders in the earlier books for crying out loud, did falling for (or on) all these men make her stupid or did someone actually f*%& her brains out?! I'm only reading them because I downloaded all of them already and since I spent the time I may as well keep reading because if nothing else it's funny as hell to play a fellow reader's bingo game. As Blake would say, I SO just went there. I know I can't ask the author to stop with the lunacy but I came in late to this party and the damage has already been done but damn! Nothing scary or police related even happened. The meat of the story doesn't start until the damn ballet yet but don't worry, she's had sex many times with many men multiple times with an audience so that's 500 pages right there just to tell us each guys eye color so we can tell them apart. My only question is if, as she states in earlier works, vamp powers don't change you then how did these guys get these eye colors? I understand Micah spent too much time in leopard form and can't change all the way back but everyone else? I've been on this planet a long time and while I think it would be cool as hell to have lilac eyes please tell me how that is humanly possible? One other issue, as if there's only one, this is a series and I know she wants each book to be readable independently but it feels like she spends half the book telling us crap we've already read in 13 other books. Oh wait that's exactly what she's doing! So if you want to hear about Asher and JC's blue eyes are along with Damien's green, Nathaniel's violet, Micah's green/yellow and of course our newest Auggie's grey eyes then you're in luck! There are at least 200 pages of eye color descriptions in this book alone. And if you want to hear about her having oral sex with someone who isn't erect you'll get more of that too. I really wanted to just stop reading but now it's a game to see just how ridiculous the sex can get. I'm not a prude but when I started this series I was promised a bad assed vampire hunter that raises zombies but all I'm getting is a clueless homophobic woman hating slut! Yes I know she gets to have 3ways with 2 guys or more but Heaven help any of them if they seek companionship with others. I'm with Richard's deep brown eyes on this one, it's not fair to them! And when her friend comes to her and points it out she throws a damn fit like a two year old who got caught stealing all the other kiddies crayons. ...more I really tried to read this book, honestly I did. It started off well enough and was better than it's predecessor (not saying much). The idea of a meeting of several different Masters of the City was interesting since it would lead to different types of vamps & magic. Unfortunately all it lead to was providing Anita with different flavors of vamp & were to bang. It honestly was incredibly boring after a while, especially the sex scenes. I'm no stranger to porn or written sex. (I have a f I really tried to read this book, honestly I did. It started off well enough and was better than it's predecessor (not saying much). The idea of a meeting of several different Masters of the City was interesting since it would lead to different types of vamps & magic. Unfortunately all it lead to was providing Anita with different flavors of vamp & were to bang. It honestly was incredibly boring after a while, especially the sex scenes. I'm no stranger to porn or written sex. (I have a few erotica novels on my shelves & a whole collection of anime/manga porn.) So when I say that LKH does NOT know how to write porn, believe that I know what I'm talking about. I think a 12 year old virgin schoolboy could write better sex scenes than LKH does. Her sex scenes just aren't well... sexy. It's boring that the only sex that happens comes through Anita. It's boring to hear LKH drone on about every little detail, and some of those details are actually make the sex a little icky. In any case, I tried three times to finish this novel and couldn't. I got about halfway through when I just decided to flip randomly to the end of the book. I really didn't miss much. Everything takes place within a night or two & the whole plot can be summed up by \"New vamps appear to provide Anita w/ new sex partners. Threats are made. Anita has sex. Everyone talks a lot. More sex. Anita solves it all. Richard whines. Jean Claude looks sexy & Asher broods. More sex while Anita tries to convince everyone that her way is the ok way.\" I want to like LKH's books. I want to be entertained by them. I initially didn't mind the extra sex. However, now it's just boring. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you are missing part of your brain. If you want to read something fluffy & brainless, read some of the vamp books in the romance section. Those are brainless & have MUCH better sex. ...more I read this back when it was first released but am rereading it here as an audiobook. It's one of the later Anita Blake books which are all a blur of sex and power in my mind so I can't remember much about it. Well, just as I remembered with the other later books in this series this is all about Anita's sex with her many men and much less about the paranormal aspects of the book which I found so interesting in the earlier novels. This time around Anita fears she may be pregnant and because she ha I read this back when it was first released but am rereading it here as an audiobook. It's one of the later Anita Blake books which are all a blur of sex and power in my mind so I can't remember much about it. Well, just as I remembered with the other later books in this series this is all about Anita's sex with her many men and much less about the paranormal aspects of the book which I found so interesting in the earlier novels. This time around Anita fears she may be pregnant and because she has a bedroom full of lovers she has no idea just who may be the daddy. So she spends a lot of the book angsting over it while in bed with Nathanial, Micah, Jean Claude, Damian, some random visiting vampire and on and on . . . There are so many characters now that it makes my head spin and not enough character development to drag me in. The book goes on and on about a big vampire ballet and soiree but then ends abruptly before the big party. WTH? It almost seems as if someone told the author the book was long enough and she had to stop and wrap it up. Definitely not a book I'd recommend to those new to the Anita-verse. ...more Better than the last one. But like in most of the books in this series, I feel that there are a lot of stories still unfinished. During the last few books Hamilton started a lot of separate little plots and I keep waiting for some of them to finish. But they don't, I still have questions left form book 10 and 11 and I have a feeling that the questions that I have left form this one will be left unanswered as well. Ah well, it's still a very addicting series. And in this book Anita seems to be unde Better than the last one. But like in most of the books in this series, I feel that there are a lot of stories still unfinished. During the last few books Hamilton started a lot of separate little plots and I keep waiting for some of them to finish. But they don't, I still have questions left form book 10 and 11 and I have a feeling that the questions that I have left form this one will be left unanswered as well. Ah well, it's still a very addicting series. And in this book Anita seems to be understanding more and more stuff about herself. Now I'm just waiting for the big boom :D ...more This was a more closed insular book than some of the others. Besides a chat with Ronnie at the beginning, Anita is neck deep in vampire politics from page one to the final page. So no RPIT and no Animator's Inc. That's not to say we didn't see as much of the necromancer as the vampire and lycanthrope sides. We just played with vampires instead of zombies. Cast list wise... Vamps: Jean-Claude, Asher, Damien, Requiem, Meng Die, Wicked and Truth, and our first real taste of Elinore, London, Auggie a This was a more closed insular book than some of the others. Besides a chat with Ronnie at the beginning, Anita is neck deep in vampire politics from page one to the final page. So no RPIT and no Animator's Inc. That's not to say we didn't see as much of the necromancer as the vampire and lycanthrope sides. We just played with vampires instead of zombies. Cast list wise... Vamps: Jean-Claude, Asher, Damien, Requiem, Meng Die, Wicked and Truth, and our first real taste of Elinore, London, Auggie and Samuel. Oh, and can't forget Belle and Marme Noir's visit. Werewolves: Richard, Graham, Clay, and Jason. Wereleopards: Nathaniel and Micah. Wererats: Claudia and Dr. Lillian. Werehyenas: ??? (names escape me at the moment) Werelions: Joseph, Cookie/Haven, Pierce, Travis and Noel. But, once again, all of the main cast was on stage at one point or another. In the beginning of the book, Jason seemed \"absent\" given how much took place in Jean-Claude's living room/ bedroom, but it was later explained he had his own \"mission\" to accomplish. *g* Spoilers ... Richard. Everyone wants to trash Richard in the recent books, but except for the whole maybe baby surprise, he was surprisingly cooperative here. His initial anger after the scene with Auggie was completely understandable given what we learned about him and Gabriel in \"Incubus Dreams\". So I'll give kudos for his effort here, because very few people will. Truthfully, Anita freaked out much worse than anyone. Ah, what else to say. Anita has gotten over feeding and being fed on by those she loves, but she still can't seem to extend that to anything casual. Not that that is a bad thing, in anyone who isn't a succubus. But, as Jean-Claude notes, Anita has accepted her vampire side in her head, but not her heart. The same could be said for her furry side. Besides giving her beast to Jason and Nathaniel in \"Incubus Dreams\" this is the first time the beasts have become so substantial that the lycanthropes are sure she will slip her skin. Anita learns the ardeur can read a lover soul deep, but that isn't common with Jean-Claude's ardeur, or Belle's. Reading that deeply means binding someone that deeply. All of her lovers besides Jean-Claude and Richard having been read that deeply - Micah, Nathaniel, Damian, Asher, and Jason. But it gives new meaning to Anita's beginning with Micah, and the change in status with Nathaniel. The ardeur gave them all what they needed from each other. Oh, and I haven't been \"counting\" it as such, but Anita and Jean-Claude feeding off of Auggie was as big of a power boost as marrying the marks or forming the second Tri. Jean-Claude became sourdre de sang after marrying the marks, but only now does his power taste of him alone. And Asher gets a big power up this time around, and an animal-to-call. *g* As for number and variety of sex scenes, this book does come closest to that line of too much. But much of that is my discomfort (on top of Anita's) with her sleeping with strangers. My favorite sex scene is still Nathaniel and Jason in the limo after Requiem has left. Of all her threesomes, Jason and Nathaniel are the least demanding in many ways. (Written 04/12/2009) ...more This book did not advance the characters. Those characters I loved, those real lovable characters that were so interesting are trapped under an avalanche of sex. This novel started out fine and then deteriorated swiftly. If I had to keep reading about how everything her sex partners did made her 'writhe\" or how every man wanted to have sex with her, or how her 'writhing' made all her men so eager to keep doing her, my brain would go on strike. In this novel, she had to manage her sexy time bette This book did not advance the characters. Those characters I loved, those real lovable characters that were so interesting are trapped under an avalanche of sex. This novel started out fine and then deteriorated swiftly. If I had to keep reading about how everything her sex partners did made her 'writhe\" or how every man wanted to have sex with her, or how her 'writhing' made all her men so eager to keep doing her, my brain would go on strike. In this novel, she had to manage her sexy time better so she had threesomes and foursomes all the time. If she wasn't blowing some guy, they were all talking about sex and who she should have it with next. All this in the time period of less than a day. Where is the intricate story lines from the earlier novels that all came together in the end? The ones that 'wow'd me into continuing to read the next in the series at 4am because I had been so enthralled that I couldn't help myself? They are gone. Blue Moon was the last novel I enjoyed even though it hadn't come close to the magnificence of Obsidian Butterfly. LKH has decided to change her writing style and it feels like she abandoned the fanbase she built originally. The last full novel (Incubus Dreams but the sex-over-shadowing-chapter-after-chapter started back in Cerulian Sins and Narscisiss in Chains) had no plot whatsoever. This is what I could decipher as the new plot for the series: Anita must have sex with as many men as she can, at the same time and other people get jealous of it. 99 percent of the time, they want to do her so bad that they lose rational thought. Its so frustrating to have Anita, who started out as such a strong female heroine, blowing every man in sight instead of using her brain to stop preternatural killers. After a while, her jaw must ache as much as my head from reading from about it. I am not anti-sex. Plenty of my favorite authors have sex in their novels. But at least the sex adds to the relationships developing story line... here it was sex for sex for some more sex. None of it progressed any relationships along. The whole Dark Mother storyline: is it going anywhere? Holy cripes, even the Dark Mother wants Anita, probably for one of Anita's famous foursomes. If the Dark Mother had a penis, I'd say it was for her one of Anita's stellar blowjobs. All Anita's leopards (except the ones she has sex with) were absent. She doesn't much bother with them anymore, I'm guessing. Funny, I thought being Nimjra meant she had responsibilities to her pard and Micah's new leopards. The last time we heard from them had been in the novel Micah's pard had been introduced in. Overall, this novel was severely lacking. I do not know if I will continue this series... I had an interest in the story, and the characters but it might not be enough for me to push through this bad pornography plotting. I kept waiting for the Pizza delivery guy to come to the Circus to entice Anita with his delivery of 'extra sausage'. ...more \"Does this woman not have an editor?\" She made it into a question. I realize that this is part 14 of a series so it's probably not the best place to start. I also know that most people seem to think that the first 10 Anita Blake books were much better. Perhaps I'll try one of those some time. For now, here's the Big List of things that made this book so bad I wanted to hurt myself: - X made it into a question: easily the most over-used expression in the book. If there's a question mark at the end, \"Does this woman not have an editor?\" She made it into a question. I realize that this is part 14 of a series so it's probably not the best place to start. I also know that most people seem to think that the first 10 Anita Blake books were much better. Perhaps I'll try one of those some time. For now, here's the Big List of things that made this book so bad I wanted to hurt myself: - X made it into a question: easily the most over-used expression in the book. If there's a question mark at the end, it's a question. You don't have to use this quirky little frase all the effing time. - Jean Claude keeps calling Anita \"ma petite\". She's a grown woman with mystical powers, a marshall and apparently some sort of demon hunter (none of that happening here of course). Stop calling her with the most annoying pet name in history! - These people love to talk. They love drama. They talk, talk, talk for nearly 600 pages. A political disaster brewing with the visiting vampires? Let's stop and talk about our feelings for three pages. The doctor has some news? Let's first debate at length if he should tell those news or not and who should hear them. - Anita needs to take an anger management class. She's not cute or quirky, simply just immature. The men in her life need to take a class called \"how not to be a condescending asshole\". - None of the characters in this book have any sense of boundaries or personal space. They need to touch each other all the time or they will DIE! This leads to painfully detailed descriptions of who is touching whom and where and how and how does everyone feel about that. This constant touching and groping made this sound like a teenage house party: \"let's all sleep together in one bed, of course nothing will happen...\" - Then of course there's the constant sex. How much sex can one woman have in about 48 hours (the timeline of this book)? A lot, with a lot of different men and creatures, in various ways that defy the laws of physics. Mostly the sex in this book is uninteresting and lacks sensuality or emotion. It's just something they do when they are not going on and on about their various relationships. There's also a plot about Anita possibly being pregnant. She's angry about it a lot, they talk about it for pages and pages (when not having sex). Some other stuff happens as well, but none of it is really interesting and none of it really goes anywhere despite this book being almost 600 pages long. Colour me unimpressed. ...more OMG. I don't know why I even bothered. Maybe I harbour hope that the Anita Blake series would start to get good again. It didn't. The ONLY thing that caught my attention was the pregnancy scare. It's too damned bad that it was just that - a scare. There could have been so much more if the pregnancy was real. Instead, LKH continues to bore through character interactions that does nothing and goes nowhere. I'm tired of whiney Richard and Anita as the Whore of Babylon, with men of all races/species OMG. I don't know why I even bothered. Maybe I harbour hope that the Anita Blake series would start to get good again. It didn't. The ONLY thing that caught my attention was the pregnancy scare. It's too damned bad that it was just that - a scare. There could have been so much more if the pregnancy was real. Instead, LKH continues to bore through character interactions that does nothing and goes nowhere. I'm tired of whiney Richard and Anita as the Whore of Babylon, with men of all races/species wanting to bed her. Where is the character development? What happened to Anita being a necromancer for hire and the executioner? It's all gone. Now we see her developing new powers, which are all sex based. Frankly, if LKH wants to write erotica, she should do so and do that. If she wants to write urban fantasy/paranormal then do that. I'm tired of plotlines that are ignored until the very end. I'm tired of argumentative prose and Anita constantly getting angry about how she's got every male wanting to bed her (but when she's in the thrall of the event, she has no difficulty being the centre of 3+ men in bed)and I'm tired of her not stepping up to the plate to take responsibility of her situations. Anita used to be strong. She isn't anymore. I'm really wondering if LKH is working out her own sexual issues vicariously through Anita. If so, then enough is enough. ...more It's all been said before, but it bears repeating. Career suicide. It is a testament to her writing skills that she still had fans after this fiasco. In fact, it's so horrifically uneven when compared with her previous work that the only explanation is that there was something else going on - either she was so far past a deadline she just had to turn it in \"as is\", she meant this to be 2 or 3 books but couldn't decide how to wrap up or edit the story to make it fit into one..... something. Becau It's all been said before, but it bears repeating. Career suicide. It is a testament to her writing skills that she still had fans after this fiasco. In fact, it's so horrifically uneven when compared with her previous work that the only explanation is that there was something else going on - either she was so far past a deadline she just had to turn it in \"as is\", she meant this to be 2 or 3 books but couldn't decide how to wrap up or edit the story to make it fit into one..... something. Because Hamilton is so much better than this. The plot starts around page 400. Before that, you have to drag yourself through sex scene after sex scene after sex scene - and she does her best to make them inventive, but it's like eating nothing but triple hot fudge sundaes with double whipped cream and a jar full of cherries on top every day three meals a day. For 8 months. After a while it doesn't matter how good it was in the beginning, you need something else. Maybe a little plot with all that sex? And very little is resolved at the end of the book. I had no problem with the talky Cerulean Sins and I had no problem at all with the \"female P.I. in a tweaked world where vamps have civil rights and supernatural creatures exist solves supernatural crimes\" turning into a much more layered look at just how a human would function in a world like that when caught between the humans and the non humans. I found that fascinating. The harem got to be a little yawnful after a while - you could pretty much count on any man who met her falling in love or at least lust or severe admiration with her. But all in all it was a wonderful series. The best in the bunch is Obsidian Butterfly where you get to take a closer look at the one man who really turns Anita's bones to jelly (and not in a good way) and see how he functions and manages two very disparate worlds. I swore I was done buying her books after this one; I would get them from the library but I would not be buying any more. The ones that came after Danse Macabre were not nearly as bad as Danse, but they still are not up to her previous standards. I am one of those annoying people who reads series in any old order because missing the back story doesn't bother me, it tends to intrigue me and send me off looking for the previous books to see how the character got from A to C. But with this series I was warned to read the books in order or it would ruin some pretty phenomenal plot twists. The advice was excellent. You need to start with Guilty Pleasures and move in order from there with this series. ...more \"What was wrong with me? I was hysterical, that was what was wrong with me. The moment I thought it that clearly, I started to calm. I didn't feel any better, really, but I could think. That was an improvement. I thought about being free of the ardeur , and that was a good thought. I thought about being free of Jean-Claude's marks, and all the metaphysical mess that came with it. My life being my own again, that sounded good. I thought about being just me, as Jean-Claude said, just me in my own s \"What was wrong with me? I was hysterical, that was what was wrong with me. The moment I thought it that clearly, I started to calm. I didn't feel any better, really, but I could think. That was an improvement. I thought about being free of the ardeur , and that was a good thought. I thought about being free of Jean-Claude's marks, and all the metaphysical mess that came with it. My life being my own again, that sounded good. I thought about being just me, as Jean-Claude said, just me in my own skin. Just me, alone, again. Alone again. I had a moment of absolutely joyous nostalgia for my life before I'd acquired so many people.\" I have to agree with Anita. I miss the old Vampire Executioner. I never thought I'd say this, but the new Anita, succubus Anita, sucks. Essentially, the entire book is a series of short anxious arguments interrupting long bouts of violent sex. The sex is boring; there's too much of it, and too much detail. It's become the standard response to every situation; you could almost call it Anita's version of a sonic screwdriver, only messier. ...more I really liked this book. It is more erotic than I remember her other books being. I actually read the first few in this series and quit because they were so violent and bloody. after picking this one up thought I am going back to blue moon and reading forward. Yes they are still violent and bloody, but now I want to know how all the relationships got so complicated and the sex became so good... Is that embarassing or what?!? you know what I'm talking about..like a train wreck..or a bad car accident..you know coming up to the scene that it's going to be bad..you don't WANT to look, but you can't help but slow down and take a lingering look out of some sense of morbid curiosity. At its core, this is what the Anita Blake books have become to me and DM is no exception. I know it's going to be bad but I just have to see how bad it'll get and how long it'll stay that way. And everytime I think 'phew, now that all the horri you know what I'm talking about..like a train wreck..or a bad car accident..you know coming up to the scene that it's going to be bad..you don't WANT to look, but you can't help but slow down and take a lingering look out of some sense of morbid curiosity. At its core, this is what the Anita Blake books have become to me and DM is no exception. I know it's going to be bad but I just have to see how bad it'll get and how long it'll stay that way. And everytime I think 'phew, now that all the horribly written sex is outta the way, now we can get to the plot', BAM..another trashy written sex scene that has nothing to do with plot or character growth pops up. While there are several redeeming qualities of the book that kept it from getting a one star rating from me, the bad outweighs the good by FAR. I think I know why that is too: THE ARDEUR. Quite possibly the worst plot device I've ever born witness to. It's turned a rough around the edges, shoot first and ask questions later vampire slayer into a wallowing and confused (and confusING) sex addict. There's two plots going on in this book. Danse Macabre is a traveling vampire ballet group. It's mentioned in the early goings of the book but really doesn't come into play until the last several chapters. She second is Anita's pregnancy scare (which is actually interesting and laughable at the same time.) Other than that? It's alot of talking heads and alot of talk about sex which is generally referred to with generous amounts of the F-bomb euphemism. We've gotten the character assassination of Ronnie. I've always liked the Ronnie character even though she hasn't been prevalent in the book for quite some time. Now where she was once completely smitten and happy with Louie, she's turned into a jealous and angst laden character who's apparently afraid of having to give up NOT being monogamous. Which is fine, whatever. But WHERE did that come from? All of a sudden we find out (what, 14 books into the series?) that she's had lovers numbering in the triple digits and is afraid to live a happy life with Louie because she doesn't want to give up the possibility of future lovers? The character assassination of Richard continues. He's been on a downward slide for quite a while now and this just continues the thread. People see HIM as the weird one because he's the only 'sweetie' of Anita's that has a problem with sharing her with other men. LOTS of other men. Remember when he was trying to win her over? Confident, charming, powerful. Granted he's picked up alot of Anita's anger due to the marriage of the marks, but still. Half of the time they're fighting and the other half the time he's crying. Ugh. Let's not forget the orgy scenes. Talk Anita is 'brought' again and again and AGAIN (maybe she's just super sensitive?) and none of her lovers (except Richard of course) has a problem with being in the bed with several other guys. Oh yes, there's a lot of emoting and discussion during the orgies too. Very talented, that Anita. Can handle three guys and once and still help them all get in touch with their inner children. Anita's added about four new feeding conquests to this book. Mind you this book happens over the course of about two days. And that's in addition to her usual stable of 'food' and 'sweeties'. What's redeeming about the book? Well, the seemingly perfect nature of Micah and Nathaniel are sort of explained in regards to how they came to be in Anita's life. It deals with the ardeur of course. Seems like the arduer is seeking out what anita needs to keep her fed and happy (more or less) so it's almost like a vampire mind trick. A love potion if you will. So are all these feelings of love she has for so many men genuine or not? That's maybe the one interesting thing to come out of all this ardeur business. What are her true feelings and what are just a result of vampiric magic. Thing is, she seems mad about it at times, but then it just doesn't seem to last. Very inconsistent. I, for one, am sick of her professing love for all these different people and them pledging undying love for her as well. But if it's just a result of JC's idiocy in not knowing what he was truly dealing with when marrying the marks up from? Well I'm willing to ride it out and see where it goes. I still feel that she should be totally peeved with him for the chaos his part in her life has played and maybe we'll eventually get that as a result of this new arduer being a double edged sword revelation. Anita says she's sick of the ardeur (FINALLY!!! some sense creeping back into her). She even goes so far as to try to break the ties to her and Richard and JC. YAY again! One minute she rails to Richard about how her life finally works for her, the next minute she says she's sick of all the men. Between me, you and the wall, she certainly seems to enjoy the stable of Chippendale caliber men she's landing so I find her anger over the ardeur to be insincere more often than not. The fact that she's very confused in this book leads me to believe that there can still be hope for this character. She even realizes that she's as guilty of trying to change Richard into something he's not as she's been accusing him of doing to her all this time. FINALLY. Duh! Plain as day to everyone else. I'm pretty much convinced that minus a few characters (JC, Richard and MAYBE Nathaniel) everyone only loves her as a function of the ardeur and that includes Micah (who's still useless and is only around to make Richard seem less perfect) and Asher (a great character who has been reduced to a centuries old lump of quivering emotional baggage). So in short, minus the pregnancy scare (which was actually alot of fun to read) and the Vampire Ballet, there's just ardeur ardeur ardeur. More excuses to throw in multiple partner sex, sex that most people probably wouldn't experience in the sum of their life, much less over the span of 48 hours Please, somebody tell me. It's a joke right? Just a gigantic dream sequence? We have master vampires and shapeshifters all walking on eggshells around Anita, afraid to tell her what a royal pain in the arse she is. Why? Seemingly because she's just THAT good in the sack. We have once really cool characters than just seem to turn 180 degrees and turn into whiny children with 'issues'. We have a main character who hates and loves her complicated life. She hates the emotional parts, loves all the shagging. Yep, Anita's turned into a raging nymphomaniac. Sure, you can blame the ardeur in part, but she still maintains a steady stable of studly suitors (say that three times fast) even when she doesn't need to feed, then complains about how complicated her emotional life is. Rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrright. She wakes up from this right? Right? Tell me it gets better please! (this is long winded so congrats and thank you if you've made it this far! lol) ...more **I originally rated this story with 4 stars, but after reading it again and having some time to reflect on it, I'm changing it to a 3. I imagine I was more enthusiastic about it the first time because I was just excited to be reading another Anita Blake story (obsess much?).** So. . . . I'm not sure how to sum my feelings up for this one. It seems the negatives outweigh the things I enjoyed this time. The book is actually missing a real plot. Entirely too much of the story was simply about the a **I originally rated this story with 4 stars, but after reading it again and having some time to reflect on it, I'm changing it to a 3. I imagine I was more enthusiastic about it the first time because I was just excited to be reading another Anita Blake story (obsess much?).** So. . . . I'm not sure how to sum my feelings up for this one. It seems the negatives outweigh the things I enjoyed this time. The book is actually missing a real plot. Entirely too much of the story was simply about the ardeur and how unpredictable it is. 500 pages about Anita's new succubus powers isn't exactly what I would call exciting. A large part takes place solely in Jean-Claude's bedroom where there is so much talking and analyzing and then talking and analyzing some more until it made my head hurt. Most of the discussions are about the ardeur , salvaging bruised male egos, and her unyielding stubborness in taking on a new pomme de sang . Where is the smart, independent Anita that doesn't take shit from anybody? I wanted to pull my hair out every time she said \"I'm not following\" or \"What do you mean?\" when the meaning was actually very obvious. Also, the Anita that we have grown to know and love has always held protecting others as one of her top priorities . . . so why does she keep putting Damian in danger over and over and over again? Does she forget he exists until he starts to die? It makes me think less of her intelligence when she has to be reminded so often of something so important. Anita, Jean-Claude, and Auggie. . . I don't really know what to say. I suppose I shouldn't have any weird feelings about Jean-Claude having sex with another man in front of Anita, but I can't lie about it, it really bothered me. Maybe mostly because he enjoyed it way too much. I wouldn't at all mind reading a M/M romance, so that's not the problem. I guess it's just that I want Jean-Claude to only want to be with her and no one else. I know that's lame, but I can't help it. I know that's not fair because she sleeps with so many men, but he knew what was coming after she gained his ardeur , but she didn't go into their relationship knowing how much he enjoyed other men. My next complaint about JC is the discussion he had with Anita about not sleeping with Asher. He said he didn't want to risk her getting upset about him and Asher being together because he was afraid she would leave his bed and destroy the triumvirate. Seriously? Not because he loves her and would miss her if she were gone, but because he wanted to keep his power? Hmmm.... maybe I was right about him all along. When Anita asked why he was shielding his thoughts so hard he admitted to her that he would risk anything to see their power increase and that he was glad that Anita had the ardeur so badly and not him. Nice thing to say, right? Anita didn't give it a second thought or even say \"Fuck you!\". She was okay with it! Why is that? Why did Anita's personality change so much in this book? She is still as stubborn as ever but overall she is missing a lot of the qualities that I admired the most. I think this book made me realize one of the reasons that I have my love/hate (emphasis on the hate) relationship with Richard. He's not interested in how powerful Anita is. Also, there's something I love about a man who is possessive and wants to growl \"She's mine\" at every male in sight ;) Jean-Claude is definitely not that man. I think if he could have his way they would have giant orgies every night and JC would work his way from the outside, getting it on with every man and woman until he reached Anita in the middle. He would be one very happy bisexual vamp ;) Now, on to the ballet. Oh. . . you don't remember the ballet? That's understandable because it was mentioned toward the beginning of the story but it doesn't actually occur until the very end of the book. I must say, Merlin has to be pretty bad ass if he can actually roll the minds of other master vampires. Oh. . . you don't remember Merlin? That's understandable too because he only had a few chapters and then he was gone. I don't entirely understand why he had to be in the story at all. His involvement seemed out of place and rushed through. I miss the Anita Blake who would have shot a hole through his chest for trying to roll everyone's mind :( I really do hate to complain this much, but this book just really rubbed me the wrong way the second time around. \"I know what you are, necromancer.\" I didn't want to ask, but it was as if I couldn't stop my mouth from forming the word. \"What?\" \"Mine.\" ...more This book is the worst thing I have ever read and I refuse to finish it. Everything that made me love the series at the beginning is gone. Sweet lovable Richard has turning into roid raging ass-hat that breaks down sobbing every other appearance, Micah is a doormat as is basically every other man in Anita's life, and Jean Claud, Master of the City, fountain head of his of blood line, is reduced to nothing more than an acquiescent, inconsequential side chick! Don't even get me started on Anita! Sh This book is the worst thing I have ever read and I refuse to finish it. Everything that made me love the series at the beginning is gone. Sweet lovable Richard has turning into roid raging ass-hat that breaks down sobbing every other appearance, Micah is a doormat as is basically every other man in Anita's life, and Jean Claud, Master of the City, fountain head of his of blood line, is reduced to nothing more than an acquiescent, inconsequential side chick! Don't even get me started on Anita! She is a hypocritical bitch and I can't figure out why everyone is so in love with her. Yes, she has the ardore (I can't even bring myself to care about the real spelling), but they all love her for her \"personality\". Left and right she goes on about how tough it is being the only woman (yet every other powerful, strong woman is painted as butch, crazy, or a lesbian) and how the ardore makes her life so difficult and how she can't emotionally handle sleeping with more men. Then, as she sleeps with at least 7 other men regularly and has random sex with strangers, she admits that she would have left Jean Claud if he was sleeping with Asher... She already sleeps with the both of them at once and they have seen her bump uglies with other men on an almost daily basis. But god forbid, these two men who have loved each other for hundreds of years before she even existed and who have finally reconciled after a great loss, they even dare to hug each other in her presence or kiss! These books really made me start to think I was aniti-feminist or something. All I could think while trying to read the newer books was how annoying and high maintenance Anita was. Everyone had to be sooooo careful of what they said around her. She is so unreasonable and hypocritical and CONSTANTLY bitching, not simply complaining, about EVERYTHING! I couldn't help but think that I would have dumped her ass a looooong time ago if I was a guy and forever labeled her as my \"psycho ex.\" The scene with Augustine's mistress was priceless, I almost wanted to high five the woman. She's got fake boobs and a lot of makeup and Anita automatically looks down on her. When the woman defends herself, asking why she's the whore when she's only sleeping with one guy whereas Anita is basically sleeping with everything with a penis I wanted to kiss her! Anita is always playing the \"good girl\" and I was angry when she thought herself better than the other woman. There's nothing wrong with being a sexual person or having multiple lovers if that is your thing, but she has no room or right to take any moral high road, EVER. And as insulted as she was by the accusation, what did she do a few pages later but rape Augustine with Jean-Claude! You know what, I'm ranting, I apologize. I'm just done with this series and anything else this author may shit out. ...more I will say that I have enjoyed the Anita Blake books a great deal. Do I like how they have developed more recently? Not exactly. That is to say, I guess I am a bit bothered by how willingly Anita has done a 180 degree turn from where she was at the beginning of things. This is not to say that I do not enjoy the changes or feel that they are unfeasible. I guess it is that I liked the tough as nails take no prisoners attitude she had earlier on. It is still there, but it has softened tremendously I will say that I have enjoyed the Anita Blake books a great deal. Do I like how they have developed more recently? Not exactly. That is to say, I guess I am a bit bothered by how willingly Anita has done a 180 degree turn from where she was at the beginning of things. This is not to say that I do not enjoy the changes or feel that they are unfeasible. I guess it is that I liked the tough as nails take no prisoners attitude she had earlier on. It is still there, but it has softened tremendously as she has continued to build her own little entourage of lovers and power partners. While I guess the overpowering need for sex is a definite plot driver, it does tend to get monotonous. It seems that in the more recent books Ms. Hamilton is forced to spend such a massive quantity of effort covering the various aspects of the Ardeur and its affects on all involved, especially Anita, that we have limited storyline that takes place outside of the bedroom or where ever the latest \"feeding\" happens to occur. It becomes so omnipresent that Anita seems to have gone from being a totally independent and powerful character to being someone who relies on a huge network of others just to get through each day without accidently killing someone in one of her triumverants because she has not fed...it just seems that this is such a overbearing part of the stories that every other aspect of the storyline suffers. Of course the whole aspect of being a Succubus is interesting, but it is definitely only a small portion of what makes this character so cool, so fun to learn about. Her necromancy, her mixed lycanthropy, heck, just being a plain old Executioner are what makes her so dynamic. In this book the character of Merlin is only briefly explored. Brought up in that last part of the book, his tremendous power is only a factor for a very short period of time and then he disappears while Anita has yet another sexual tryst to complete the novel. I would have loved for there to have been a much more involved confrontations with him, Adonis, and other interesting characters such as Haven, Samuel, and Thea. I feel that the interactions were cut tremendously short with them because of so much space devoted to the Ardeur. It is my hope that after all the knowledge gained in determining the true power that Anita has and can gain that furture books will not have to dwell so completely on it and can have much more complex plots and interesting and new developments that so much captivated me with this series in stories such as Obsidian Butterfly and earlier works. I do enjoy the characters and even though I think this book is a weak link in the series I am definitely hooked and will continue to read on and see what happens next. ...more Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton. This book had a similar vibe to the Merry Gentry series - a little bit of action and danger, and a whole lot of emotional angst and metaphysically enhanced sex. I've got the sense that this book is a connector building up to something very big happening in a later book - that it gives background you'll need to understand the books later on in the series. It certainly seems that LH is not giving her characters peaceful, t Book 14 in the Anita Blake, vampire executioner, series by Laurell Hamilton. This book had a similar vibe to the Merry Gentry series - a little bit of action and danger, and a whole lot of emotional angst and metaphysically enhanced sex. I've got the sense that this book is a connector building up to something very big happening in a later book - that it gives background you'll need to understand the books later on in the series. It certainly seems that LH is not giving her characters peaceful, tranquil lives anytime soon. Basic plot: Anita has a pregnancy scare and accompanying meltdown while a vampire ballet has come to town. Jean-Claude has invited many other master vampires to the gala, and there are all kinds of power struggles happening that always accompany powerful vampires. Anita is part succubus, and has realized that she needs more lovers to feed on, but she's loathe to take another one. The most powerful, original vampire (the mother of darkness) is starting to wake from a long sleep, and she's after Anita through dreams. Some new alliances and anomosities are made with various vampires and shifters. Richard seems to have finally gotten it through his thick skull that Anita is never going to marry him and have 2.5 kids with him. He's still sleeping around \"interviewing\" potential wives. He's still a tortured screw up, very slowly catching on. Jason and Asher become more important to Anita in this book. Requium and London are added as lovers to Anita's harem. ...more I don't even know anymore why I keep doing this to myself. A new Anita Blake... or as I like to call them, a Shitblake. As the previous ones, Im reading this as an audiobook and it has had me snorting and rolling my eyes from the beginning. Why I keep doing this? WHY? Edit: After reading the book (well \"reading\" the \"book\") I have come to the conclusion that this kind of crap is an insult to the trees this crap was made of. Luckily I listened to the audio book instead of even handling the poor pa I don't even know anymore why I keep doing this to myself. A new Anita Blake... or as I like to call them, a Shitblake. As the previous ones, Im reading this as an audiobook and it has had me snorting and rolling my eyes from the beginning. Why I keep doing this? WHY? Edit: After reading the book (well \"reading\" the \"book\") I have come to the conclusion that this kind of crap is an insult to the trees this crap was made of. Luckily I listened to the audio book instead of even handling the poor paper this crap was printed on. Once again I shall make a list 1) horrible sex 2) screaming orgasms which show that LKH has no idea of what joyful sex really is like 3) it was as if x1 000 000 4) everything spills in and on everything. Hair, sperm, magic power; it's all the same. 5) the book had a timeline of about few days, yet it was THIS FUCKING LONG!!!!! If the \"author\" has the urge to report every single detail and whine and angst, one could hope that at least the plot was good, but I have to ask WHAT plot? There was none. Basically this book is something I could've written in my teens. Something I thought was super tragic and super sexy without even knowing what good sex is. Horrible! Reading this book was as if this brown metaphysical goo spilled from the tight and wet depths of my soul and covered me with it's brown, so brown, gooiness. See LKH, I can write like you too! ...more Okay, if you're in the mood for meeting new characters, great sex and nothing but vampire/lycan politics, this is the book for you. But it ticked me off on another point. There was nothing to Anita's job in this one; no raising the dead, no investigations to do, it was kind of boring. I could understand why it had to be done this way. There was just way to much that 'Anita needed to know' about all the new powers, etc..., and I think it would have been too confusing had it been done in the regul Okay, if you're in the mood for meeting new characters, great sex and nothing but vampire/lycan politics, this is the book for you. But it ticked me off on another point. There was nothing to Anita's job in this one; no raising the dead, no investigations to do, it was kind of boring. I could understand why it had to be done this way. There was just way to much that 'Anita needed to know' about all the new powers, etc..., and I think it would have been too confusing had it been done in the regular fashion with an investigation. I've read the excerpts for The Harlequin. Looks like it's going to be a really good book. I certainly hope so. ...more Wowww!!Harika kitaplardan biriydi gene.Nathaniel'in i\u00e7inde \u00e7\u0131kmay\u0131 bekleyen bir dominant var sanki. Anita'n\u0131n hayvanlar\u0131 ne kadar artacak acaba? Kitapta olan t\u00fcm hayvanlardan hangisi daha g\u00fc\u00e7l\u00fc acaba diye d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcn\u00fcyorum.Kurt mu?Leopar m\u0131?Aslan m\u0131?\u00c7akal m\u0131?Fare mi? Ne? Bir t\u00fcrl\u00fc birbirleriyle kar\u015f\u0131la\u015ft\u0131ram\u0131yorum..neden? The vamp politics - great. The pregnancy scare and all the revealed insecurities - crap. The whining Anita - get over it and grow up...put on your shit-kickers, give yourself a right kick in the arse, and get some gosh-darn self-confidence. Cookie - I want him.", "Title": "Danse Macabre"},
