{"Comments": "The writer of this book is definitely talented, but was too enamored of her own powers of description for my taste. Many of the descriptive passages were beautifully poetic, but I often found myself admiring her turns of phrase while wanting her to get on with the story already! Yes, <---A>Cecilia</---A>,<---M> you're a poet and you know it</---M>, but did you really have to bring the story to a halt while you spent a whole page on exactly how the light fell on a pool of water, or listed all 263 tools in a character's wo The writer of this book is definitely talented, but was too enamored of her own powers of description for my taste. Many of the descriptive passages were beautifully poetic, but I often found myself admiring her turns of phrase while wanting her to get on with the story already! Yes, Cecilia, you're a poet and you know it, but did you really have to bring the story to a halt while you spent a whole page on exactly how the light fell on a pool of water, or listed all 263 tools in a character's workshop? Some reviewers were annoyed by the dozens of Celtic stories and myths crammed into the plot, but I didn't mind that too much because that's an interest of mine. But I agree that sometimes it appeared that Dart-Thornton wanted to use every story she'd ever been told or unearthed in her research, without regard to how they affected the structure of the book. I do think a discerning editor could have vastly improved this book by curbing Dart-Thornton's excesses, while keeping enough of the poetic language and the grounding in Celtic mythology to elevate the book above others of the genre. Also, I listened to it as an audiobook, and the reader mispronounced so many not-so-uncommon words I wanted to scream. I wouldn't have minded mispronunciations of the Celtic or made-up words as much, but I was annoyed by the frequent mispronunciation of standard English words whose pronunciation could be checked in dictionary. I wish I'd kept a list, because now the only ones I can remember are \"ebullient\", which she pronounced \"EB-yuh-lent\", and \"demesnes\" which she pronounced \"de-MEN-ses\" (<---B>over and over, aargh!</---B>). I realize that neither of those are good examples of standard English words that a professional reader should know how to say, but trust me, there were many others. I think I'd have liked these books better if I'd read instead of listened so that I could have skimmed the song lyrics and over-long descriptions, and so I wouldn't have been constantly irritated by mispronunciations. After skimming the reviews of the third book in this trilogy, I've decided not to bother with it at all. ...<---F>more This series utterly blew me away</---F>. I was already impressed with the first volume, but Thornton, takes us into a completely different context and setting in her second book, and manages to keep the same level of complexity and atmosphere. I actually think this book was more of a challenge to create the atmosphere. Being predominantly in an enchanted wood, the first book was already predisposed to be enchanting, but the second book takes place almost entirely around the complexities of court politi This series utterly blew me away. I was already impressed with the first volume, but Thornton, takes us into a completely different context and setting in her second book, and manages to keep the same level of complexity and atmosphere. I actually think this book was more of a challenge to create the atmosphere. Being predominantly in an enchanted wood, the first book was already predisposed to be enchanting, but the second book takes place almost entirely around the complexities of court politics, and yet still manages to be quite enchanting. Some people might find Thornton's use of adjectives and obscure archaic nouns a bit cumbersome, but I generally found she used them in a descriptive capacity, which ultimately served to weave the tapestry of the world into vivid immediacy. What I find so refreshing about Cecilia's work is that she does not use the theme of prophesy, which I ultimately find to be a conceit. The heroine is simply living her life, is somewhat adrift in a bewildering set of circumstances, and has no clear notion of what she is meant to be doing. For me this created a greater feeling of suspense as to what was going to occure. The drawback of prophesy, is that it also tends to be a bit of a spoiler. If the hero is destined to save the realm, there's a good chance he's going to pull in off in a fantasy novel. Celia leaves us in the dark as to what will happen to the heroine, and for me personally, she got me to care about the main character, which I rarely do. ...more I'm giving up on this series. I wanted to re-read it because I loved it a lot the first two times I read it (when I was still in my fantasy stage of reading), and I needed to read something that didn't require any thought, but wow, it's boring. The author seems to think that writing in a deadpan, old-fashioned style studded liberally with uncommon words makes for beautiful prose. I beg to differ. She also spends inordinate amounts of time describing food, clothing, furniture, banquets and other s I'm giving up on this series. I wanted to re-read it because I loved it a lot the first two times I read it (when I was still in my fantasy stage of reading), and I needed to read something that didn't require any thought, but wow, it's boring. The author seems to think that writing in a deadpan, old-fashioned style studded liberally with uncommon words makes for beautiful prose. I beg to differ. She also spends inordinate amounts of time describing food, clothing, furniture, banquets and other such things, in a most repetitious fashion. The plot's not bad , as such (actually I was pleasantly surprised), and neither are the characters - though why do people always become boring as soon as they find beauty and wealth? The Irish fairy tales sprinkled throughout the plot are interesting, but often there are just too many of them, and when combined with the yawn-inducing pages and pages of description, there's just not enough happening. ...more maybe it was just me; at the moment, patience isn't my best thing. i'll get the third in this trilogy, and the first in the next, anyway. i sort of can't not, given her subject matter. but i'm not nearly as enchanted at this point. maybe it's because the heroine isn't very interesting at this point. okay, why? she loses a lot of color, and a lot of value, to me. gets her face fixed up (bigger priority than the people she says she cares about), and lies to upgrade her social status and then hobnob maybe it was just me; at the moment, patience isn't my best thing. i'll get the third in this trilogy, and the first in the next, anyway. i sort of can't not, given her subject matter. but i'm not nearly as enchanted at this point. maybe it's because the heroine isn't very interesting at this point. okay, why? she loses a lot of color, and a lot of value, to me. gets her face fixed up (bigger priority than the people she says she cares about), and lies to upgrade her social status and then hobnobs with a bunch of posers she wouldn't have given tuppence for impressing before. okay, learning experience, livelong dreams, shallow end, i get that, but i also stopped liking her. valid, but it's better if the author actually intended that to happen, and see, i just don't think she did, which means she lost control. then of course her longlost love turned out to be king, resulting in yet another status upgrade, and he did more bestowing, and... i thought, what, is she then Cecilia's Mary Sue? of course, now she's penniless again, so onward to Book Three, where perhaps her character will have correspondingly improved. though it's hard to tell exactly what stage of evolution she's even at, at any given moment, because she's in danger of losing her memory as often as an afternoon soap star.... but i'm provisionally concluding that for Rohain, penniless is better.{g} maybe it's because she managed to make Thomas the Rhymer boring. which hey, to me, tsk, the very definition of a bad gambit.... and then the style. what she's up to here, she's taking bits out of different folktales and sticking them in. Celtic stuff. this is that thing she does. and did in the Ill-Made Mute too, mind. but this time, i dunno, she doesn't seem to have assimilated the sources she's using. you get a story, lifted wholecloth out of a source. i usually recognize the sources, maybe that's the problem: i know how much heavy lifting she's really doing? she does biblio them, though, in the back, which is unusual in a work of fiction and might usually be said to cover all the ground. but the trouble is, there's no narrative to speak of, so there's no point to the stories, pretty much, nothing to incorporate them into. she meets someone, a story ensues. not particularly relevant. someone else enters stage left, another story. not much tale of her own in the interstices. it's irritating. like a folklore collection masquerading as a novel. note caveats above: also, no patience, right? so what does this mean? - she's lost the narrative, she's only got the footnotes? - typical second novel paralysis (well-attested phenomenon)? - she's writing a simple romance in this trilogy, and all the stuff i think is neat about her work is really only meaningless filler? who knows? i'll read two more, see if it helps. but currently, i'm thinking, all this lovely material, what a shame that me and this writer aren't getting along any better than this. and also: who would have thunk it was possible to reduce Thomas of Ercildoun to a socialite? ...more The second book in a trilogy, <+++>The Lady of the Sorrows</+++> sets an even faster pace than An Ill-Made Mute . Some quests and questions from the first book are resolved, and at the end of the book both the reader and the character finally has a complete understanding of the beginning of the trilogy. :~D Several throwaway references have gained a deeper meaning by now, and the ending promises a truly exiting finale. There's also a very sweet romance, oodles of action, and several pieces of witty dialogue. The second book in a trilogy, <+++>The Lady of the Sorrows</+++> sets an even faster pace than An Ill-Made Mute . Some quests and questions from the first book are resolved, and at the end of the book both the reader and the character finally has a complete understanding of the beginning of the trilogy. :~D Several throwaway references have gained a deeper meaning by now, and the ending promises a truly exiting finale. There's also a very sweet romance, oodles of action, and several pieces of witty dialogue. I especially enjoy the way Irish-type fairy tales are interweaved through the book, and how these tales are usually quite relevant to the plot. It may look long, but this book just sucks you in and won't let go... as evidenced by my finishing it at 01:30 last night. ...more Overall, I really enjoyed The Lady of the Sorrows . The story got a lot better towards the end - the storyline actually moved somewhere. The author was under the impression that using long and mostly unused words and listing huge paragraphs of what someone was wearing, or the food that was being served etc. contributed to the story. Well, suffice to say, it didn't. I found myself skimming over whole paragraphs, just to get to the actual story. I did like the references to mythology, and the legend Overall, I really enjoyed The Lady of the Sorrows . The story got a lot better towards the end - the storyline actually moved somewhere. The author was under the impression that using long and mostly unused words and listing huge paragraphs of what someone was wearing, or the food that was being served etc. contributed to the story. Well, suffice to say, it didn't. I found myself skimming over whole paragraphs, just to get to the actual story. I did like the references to mythology, and the legends told throughout the book were captivating. The twists were mainly unpredictable, and I couldn't see them coming. ...more I'm not sure what happened here. It's like her writing suddenly got really bad, because I don't remember the first book being like this. The writing was so trite, filled to bursting with metaphors and rambling lists, insipid dialogue...argh. I do want to finish the trilogy because the story at least is still interesting, but this book has got to win a purple prose award of some kind. It actually reminds me of the things I don't like about Tolkien: way too much scenery porn, overly flowery dialog I'm not sure what happened here. It's like her writing suddenly got really bad, because I don't remember the first book being like this. The writing was so trite, filled to bursting with metaphors and rambling lists, insipid dialogue...argh. I do want to finish the trilogy because the story at least is still interesting, but this book has got to win a purple prose award of some kind. It actually reminds me of the things I don't like about Tolkien: way too much scenery porn, overly flowery dialogue, very little complexity, and reading through it just feels like a slog with little reward. ...more Gripping, the story gets better. Very cleverly written and I'm straight onto the next one now :) great series (This is a joint review for the entire trilogy. No spoilers) So, the first book in the trilogy is titled The Ill-Made Mute. I highly recommend it. Now, a large part of the book is very hard to wade through. I would not be surprised if this woman had earned a doctorate in pre-Industrial Celtic and Anglo-Saxon folk tales and legends. She incorporates almost every known folk tale from these cultures as a bona-fide part of her world. The Great Hunt rides at night, seelie and un-seelie wights await a (This is a joint review for the entire trilogy. No spoilers) So, the first book in the trilogy is titled The Ill-Made Mute. I highly recommend it. Now, a large part of the book is very hard to wade through. I would not be surprised if this woman had earned a doctorate in pre-Industrial Celtic and Anglo-Saxon folk tales and legends. She incorporates almost every known folk tale from these cultures as a bona-fide part of her world. The Great Hunt rides at night, seelie and un-seelie wights await at every turn, and more or less every superstition is held as gospel. The woman uses a few Gaelic terms here and there, and much of the spellings, and many of the names, are Celtic. This can get very distracting. There will be long, drawn out 20 page passages where she basically just retells a folk tale for the reader, without any of the book's characters participating, just listening to the tale be told, or she'll even pause the action entirely to give this as a 20 page aside. And when words like Fithiach, Imrhien and Each Uisage are used at whims, the book can sometimes be hard to wade through. But, the tale was amazing, and she is perhaps the best author I've read at being able to make the world around you seem alive. Never before have I read a book where the author evokes in me the thoughts and feelings I had as a child going camping. Every odd noise in the woods was some animal, or a sprite of some kind just out of sight, playing games with our fears. The world is truly alive around you. This was a whole new type of fantasy writing. The tale itself concerns a disfigured mute amnesiac (say that three times fast) who stumbles out of a collapsed mineshaft and is taken in by some type of scullery maid or something. The whole tale is told third person limited, so we only know of the world what this mute knows, which is nothing. It's a great way to introduce the world to us. And what a world it is. There's apparently 2 metals in this world not in ours, sildron and allium. Sildron has the peculiar magnetic property of repelling gravity. Allium, when placed between sildron and earth, nullifies this anti-grav effect. Thus, a whole culture of airborne messengers riding winged horses with sildron-shod feet arises. There are huge sailing ships, akin to the British Navy of the 1700s, with their external hulls lined with sildron, and movable allium covers (allowing them to change their amount of lift). Combine all this with a typical medieval fantasy world, and add in all the folk legends, and you have one helluva new world. Despite what may sound like a few big flags and complaints on my end, I fully suggest everyone read it, if for nothing else than a look at a refreshing new fantasy world, and a completely different writing style than any I've ever come across before. I liked it enough to want to buy the rest of the trilogy Partly because of the novelty of her writing style, and partly because Book II (The Lady of the Sorrows) had a character named The Lady Dianella in it. So, back during my latest Barnes and Noble buying spree I picked up the second and third (The Battle of Evernight) books. The cool thing is, about 3/4 of the way through book 2 (The Lady of the Sorrows), some very cool plot developments arise that make you realize she probably planned out and wrote all three books before anyone even saw 1 page of them, and that they are very cooly thought out and planned. And there is some exciting action and interesting plot twists. Many kudos to her for a well thought out series. She also knows her geology and botany. The problem, however, is that the 20 page asides have grow both in frequency and length, and instead of being a decent quest fantasy, it somehow rapidly turned into a harlequin romance. Or at least, a bunch of Victorian type damsels at court pining and wisting away in very flowery language over the same, graceful, exquisitely handsome (sorry, comely), sensitive, caring, and understanding man. There was even mention somewhere about a woman being proud that the one thing she was able to give to the man who had everything was the most marvelous gift of all, the once given and always cherished maidenhead. Yes, that was how she described it. Or maybe he described it that way. Either way, the books weren't what I bargained for. I found myself skimming 20, 30, 60 page passages at a time simply to getback to a plot and some semblance of a break from internal dialogues. This is the first time I've skipped chunks of a book since I tried to read Dr. Zhivago entirely in 1 night, for a quiz the next morning. (It didn't go well at all) Also, the novel writing style she had in the first book becomes bloated and amplified, so that every description is a long string of alliteration, metaphor, and hyperbole, not to mention anthropomorphization. I mean, passages like, \"the book of night opened across the sky, it's paragraphs written in constellations\" can be very cool, but when that's the shortest, clearest, and most direct description of nightfall the woman can come up with (and believe me, there were many many more in the book, all of them long and pointless ways of saying \"it was nighttime\") - then there's an editor somewhere sound asleep at her desk, or just not showing up for work. This woman can make Robert Jordan's descriptive style seem sparse and insufficient. Anyway, skipping to the end... In the paperback version I have of the third book (The Battle of Evernight), there is a one-page epilogue/Author's Note that says, in a nutshell, that when the first edition of the third book came out, no one could understand the ending. Not that they couldn't see how the characters could do whatever it is they did, but that no one was at all clear on what happened. Apparently, there was enough confusion about this that the author felt it necessary (in the paperback release) to include a few paragraphs explaining, in layman's terms, exactly what happened in clear and understandable language. ...more The second in the Bitterbynde trilogy this was a little better than the first. Halfway through it was like someone else wrote the book. Much tighter, less of the endless descriptive lists. I think maybe she got a new editor. Why they didn't go back and redo the first half I can't fathom. Anyway most of this volume was a lot of wandering around having adventures or not. But we do finally get the main characters story. She has about 4 different named throughout the series so I'm not sure what to c The second in the Bitterbynde trilogy this was a little better than the first. Halfway through it was like someone else wrote the book. Much tighter, less of the endless descriptive lists. I think maybe she got a new editor. Why they didn't go back and redo the first half I can't fathom. Anyway most of this volume was a lot of wandering around having adventures or not. But we do finally get the main characters story. She has about 4 different named throughout the series so I'm not sure what to call her. ...more Deel II in de Bitterbynde trilogie. Ja, eens begonnen moet men doorlezen want het is spannend!hervi In dit deel wordt het ware doel van het hoofdpersonage duidelijk en dit na en met het overwinnen van vele obstakels en gevaarlijke tochten. Opnieuw fantasy zoals het hoort maar nu met een creatieve twist op basis van het verhaal van de rattenvanger van Haemelen. Goed geschreven, vlot leesbaar en eentje dat je moeilijk kan wegleggen. https://www.leespleziervoorjou.nl/bit... Warning: this review contains spoilers for the first book, The Ill-Made Mute. Wow, what a difference one book makes! This second part of the Bitterbynde trilogy is a much better effort than the often rather wordy and plodding first part. Where in book one the prose was frequently needlessly complicated and frustratingly obtuse, in this book the language is rich and powerfully evocative. It is still complicated, but the author seems to have found her voice and come into her stride, and I found thi Warning: this review contains spoilers for the first book, The Ill-Made Mute. Wow, what a difference one book makes! This second part of the Bitterbynde trilogy is a much better effort than the often rather wordy and plodding first part. Where in book one the prose was frequently needlessly complicated and frustratingly obtuse, in this book the language is rich and powerfully evocative. It is still complicated, but the author seems to have found her voice and come into her stride, and I found this a gripping read from start to finish. In book one we were introduced to Imrhien, a mute youth with a hideous face scarred by a plant called paradox ivy, and no memory of anything that happened before waking up in the bowels of Isse Tower. Midway through the book it was revealed that the lad was in fact a girl, and the book finished when she reached the one-eyed witch whose knowledge cured her facial disfiguration, which also restored her voice. Thus presentable and able to speak her piece, Imrhien must travel to the royal court to inform the King-Emperor of the vast treasure she and the adventurer Sianadh discovered in book one. To remain inconspicuous she dyes her \u2013 very rare \u2013 blond hair, changes her name to Rohain and uses her newfound wealth to set herself up as a lady from a faraway region. In this disguise she gains audience with one of the king\u2019s most trusted men, and the treasure is recovered, gaining Rohain a privileged position at the court. This in turn gives her the opportunity to try and find out what happened to Thorn, the brave Dainnan knight who protected her throughout the latter half of the first book. To say more of the plot would give away too many major revelations, but as before the book is rich with creatures and stories of Celtic legend, and these are often interwoven with the main tale or interrupt it briefly. About halfway through the book takes a major turn in a completely different direction, which is confusing at first but makes sense once you get to the end of the book. It is an unexpected twist, and it brings the scope of the book up considerably, compared to the first one. In a way it feels like the author wasn\u2019t entirely sure where she was headed in the first book, and in only became clear in the second book. I personally very much enjoyed this book, but it isn\u2019t for anyone who likes their reading light and fluffy. The language is too complicated, often too old-fashioned to be easy going, and I could have done with a few less prithees and gramercies. I also suspect that I had an easier time with the world itself, as I have some background knowledge of many of the faerie creatures encountered throughout. Still, if you do not mind encountering unknown words and are ready for a very rich world of endless forests, vast stretches of landscape inhabited only by creatures both seelie and unseelie, and are ready for a story that keeps taking things up a level, this is a good book for you. You\u2019ll just have to work your way through the plodding first book first, or you won\u2019t have a clue what\u2019s going on. More reviews at Silk Screen Views . ...more Da: http://www.webalice.it/michele.castel... Quando e' uscito il primo dei due romanzi, La Ragazza della Torre, il mio naso mi ha indotto a lasciarlo perdere. All'uscita del secondo, pero', un po' attirato dalla presentazione molto entusiasta, e da una trama che, sempre dalla presentazione, sembrava abbastanza complessa, ma forse ancora maggiormente dal fatto che con un paio di euro in piu' delle solite edizioni in brossura si poteva avere un libro simile ai vecchi libri \"rilegati\", una edizione Da: http://www.webalice.it/michele.castel... Quando e' uscito il primo dei due romanzi, La Ragazza della Torre, il mio naso mi ha indotto a lasciarlo perdere. All'uscita del secondo, pero', un po' attirato dalla presentazione molto entusiasta, e da una trama che, sempre dalla presentazione, sembrava abbastanza complessa, ma forse ancora maggiormente dal fatto che con un paio di euro in piu' delle solite edizioni in brossura si poteva avere un libro simile ai vecchi libri \"rilegati\", una edizione, insomma, che dava l'impressione di fare anche una sua figura \"libresca\", li ho acquistati entrambi. Probabilmente facevo meglio a dare retta al mio istinto iniziale. La presentazione dice che l'autrice e' un'esordiente australiana (strana questa abbondanza di autori australiani, ultimamente). Che sia esordiente lo si capisce dopo poche pagine. L'ingenuita' nel narrare, la narrazione che avanza a scatti, una certa ristrettezza di linguaggio... tutti aspetti che si trovano spesso negli autori esordienti. La trama si indovina poter essere ricca, ma, onestamente, se avessi voluto leggere una raccolta di leggende della Gran Bretagna del nord, avrei preferito un libro dedicato a questo in modo esplicito, e non camuffato da romanzo. Perche' in realta' i personaggi di questo libro passano la maggior parte del loro tempo a raccontarsi storie, le piu' conosciute o le piu' inverosimili, che l'autrice ha estratto, per sua ammissione, da un nugolo di vecchi libri. Storie di folletti, del popolo fatato, di esseri immortali, benevoli o maligni, mescolate a storie piu' banali, di furbizie e di incantesimi. Mentre la storia che pensavo di dover leggere evolve a fatica. E se queste lunghissime pause di racconti nel racconto appesantiscono la narrazione, poi succede che le azioni della storia principale avanzino di fretta, quasi di corsa, senza una adeguata descrizione, senza ragionevoli giustificazioni. I personaggi sono scolpiti in modo grossolano, con pochi aspetti fondamentali a caratterizzarli. I sentimenti sono estremizzati, come se passati attraverso un amplificatore messo al massimo. Il secondo volume e' leggerissimamente meglio, ma, se anche la storia principale avanza un po' piu' speditamente, l'obiettivo principale dell'autrice sembra rimanere quella di presentare una raccolta completa di leggende, fiabe e aneddoti, spesso molto ben conosciuti anche dal pubblico italiano. Il finale tronco del secondo volume sembra ovviamente indicare che ci sara' un seguito. Credo proprio che mi imporro' il sacrificio di non sapere come la storia va a finire. ...more Most of my review for the first book in the trilogy applies here perfectly. The plot seemed even more pointless and an excuse for the author to jam in her impeccably researched faerie stories to what was meant to be an original novel, or to change the heroine's name again. Rohain is far less likeable than in the previous book and I really don't see why the other characters seem to find her so witty. The style is grating, as always. One scene does stand out though as brilliant story-telling. When Most of my review for the first book in the trilogy applies here perfectly. The plot seemed even more pointless and an excuse for the author to jam in her impeccably researched faerie stories to what was meant to be an original novel, or to change the heroine's name again. Rohain is far less likeable than in the previous book and I really don't see why the other characters seem to find her so witty. The style is grating, as always. One scene does stand out though as brilliant story-telling. When Rohain finds her bracelet and regains the memories of her youth I was spell-bound, it is the only scene that made this book worthwhile to read and is the only part I will ever reread. I have a feeling that Rohain's story could have made for an absolutely incredible book if it had been handled by a more able, less clunky author. My review for Ill-made mute: I loved the heroine's struggle to be accepted in this book, the sense of mystery, the blend of standard and new elements of world building and the depth of (some of) the characters we met, so I've given it four stars. However, I found the prose a bit overwrought and the constant breaking off of the main plot, to give the author a chance to exhibit her collected faerie stories, really irritating. By the end of the trilogy it was nearly unbearable. Other than Sianadh and Imrhien and to a lesser extent Caitri and Grethet, I did not feel a lot of connection to the characters or like we got much insight into their motives. Despite being dreamy, Thorn in particular just seemed like a one dimensional paragon. A lot of the action seemed a bit pointless after the sections taking us from Isse tower to Waterstairs with Sianadh, but despite this I was still gripped by the revelations and the journey of self discovery that Imrhien was going through. Her powerful story is what carried me through the whole trilogy, the absence of something similar, coupled with Ms Dart-Thornton's writing style is what made her subsequent Crowthistle Chronicles impossible for me to finish. I would recommend this trilogy but be prepared to skip over many boring passages, lists of adjectives and descriptions of strange clothes and food (what exactly is a kirtle?). You may also find the put-on ye olde englishe (or irishe) language exasperating. ...more In questo secondo volume della Trilogia di Bitterbynde , il mio giudizio si divide: 2 stelline per la prima met\u00e0 del libro e 4 stelline per la seconda met\u00e0. C'\u00e8 un divario tra le due parti. All'inizio la vita di Imrhien, che ha riacquistato il volto e la parola e che si fa chiamare Rohain, si svolge nella corte di Caermelor, nell'attesa di essere ricevuta dal Re-Imperatore. \u00c8 una parte del romanzo dove gli avvenimenti sembrano misurati con il contagocce, diluiti in fiumi di parole che, alla lunga, In questo secondo volume della Trilogia di Bitterbynde , il mio giudizio si divide: 2 stelline per la prima met\u00e0 del libro e 4 stelline per la seconda met\u00e0. C'\u00e8 un divario tra le due parti. All'inizio la vita di Imrhien, che ha riacquistato il volto e la parola e che si fa chiamare Rohain, si svolge nella corte di Caermelor, nell'attesa di essere ricevuta dal Re-Imperatore. \u00c8 una parte del romanzo dove gli avvenimenti sembrano misurati con il contagocce, diluiti in fiumi di parole che, alla lunga, stancano un po'. Ritroviamo dei vecchi personaggi che erano stati persi di vista nel volume precedente, ma i colpi di scena sono pochi e banali (come quello che riguarda Thorn). La Dart-Thornton scrive molto bene, ma l'ambientazione nella citt\u00e0, e in particolare nella corte, non fa per lei. Non so quale interesse possano suscitare i pizzi di una tovaglia o i motivi del tessuto di un vestito o il linguaggio (peraltro orrendo!) dei cortigiani... Nella seconda parte del libro, invece, si ritorna agli splendori che sembravano offuscati, e l'autrice finalmente riesce a rendere interessante, di nuovo, la vicenda, in parte con la sua magnifica scrittura, in parte con (finalmente) lo sbloccarsi dello stallo narrativo. La storia riprende il volo in maniera spettacolare, e diventa ancora pi\u00f9 interessante di quella contenuta in La ragazza della Torre : in un lungo flashback, infatti, Rohain riacquista la memoria perduta, e forse \u00e8 proprio questa la parte migliore del romanzo. Ancora una volta la Dart-Thornton attinge abbondantemente dal folklore celtico, inserendo minuziosamente nella narrazione storie e leggende legate al Reame Fatato e al Piccolo Popolo. E non senza un motivo: forse, apparentemente, pu\u00f2 sembrare una inutile ridondanza, ma continuando la lettura si scoprir\u00e0 che non \u00e8 cos\u00ec. Peccato per l'iniziale monotonia del romanzo; se la prima met\u00e0 del libro fosse stata meno prolissa, La dama delle isole avrebbe meritato complessivamente le 4 stelline. Infine, una nota positiva: all'inizio del volume c'\u00e8 il riassunto del libro precedente, utile per chi si fosse scordato qualche dettaglio della storia. :) ...more Sadly, I found this book dull at best, which is why it took me nearly a month to read it. So, firstly, there was no character development, which I was really hoping for since Imrhein regained her face (and of course she was flawlessly beautiful. Of course.). That in itself took away the only thing that interested me about the protagonist. Have an ugly mute for a main character was interesting, even if she did have no personality. So when she was cured of her ugliness and her muteness, she was ju Sadly, I found this book dull at best, which is why it took me nearly a month to read it. So, firstly, there was no character development, which I was really hoping for since Imrhein regained her face (and of course she was flawlessly beautiful. Of course.). That in itself took away the only thing that interested me about the protagonist. Have an ugly mute for a main character was interesting, even if she did have no personality. So when she was cured of her ugliness and her muteness, she was just a normal character, and equally as boring as before. Secondly, the plot just didn't do it for me. She hung around at court for awhile and tried to get into the popular crowd, then meekly went away to Isse Tower again when she was discovered to be not \"Rohain of The Sorrows\". Then she decided to go to Huntingtowers because it suddenly became really important for her to discover what happened in her past. Then she went back to Isse Tower, found out the man she was in love with was actually the king, got engaged, farted around on an island for awhile until it exploded then went back to Huntingtowers and discovered who she was. All of this dispersed with Welsh legends which had really not much to do with the story, they were kind of just shoved in there, storytelling style. I really just wish I had skipped the entire part about her engagement and the island because it was about 300 pages worth of nothing, and she just went to where she was going to go anyway. All this seemed to happen for no discernible reason, it seemed, except to stretch the novel into a several hundred page plod. The only part of the story I really enjoyed was when Rohain began to regain her memories, which was at the very end of the book. Really just disappointed about how boring this was. If I even read the third book it won't be for awhile, although the end was pretty intriguing. But I hardly wish to waste my time on another of these long-winded and dull books. ...more The cracks begin to show... On the one hand, this book is a moderately satisfying sequel to the jewel-rich book \"The Ill-Made Mute.\" The world is handsomely expanded, with new magics and perils, the prose remains gorgeous, our heroine meets with new challenges, friends, and enemies, intriguing hints are dropped about our heroine's past, and my personal favorite character from the first book returns. The narrative also finishes up with a wonderful retelling of the tale of the Pied Piper of Hamelin The cracks begin to show... On the one hand, this book is a moderately satisfying sequel to the jewel-rich book \"The Ill-Made Mute.\" The world is handsomely expanded, with new magics and perils, the prose remains gorgeous, our heroine meets with new challenges, friends, and enemies, intriguing hints are dropped about our heroine's past, and my personal favorite character from the first book returns. The narrative also finishes up with a wonderful retelling of the tale of the Pied Piper of Hamelin. On the other hand, this book is also a prequel to the absolutely awful \"The Battle of Evernight.\" An insipid, utterly blah romance plotline is treated like the stuff of glories and dreams coming true, and puts the narrative utterly to sleep. The author's fondness for fancy, multisyllabic words (like \"clepsydra,\" an obscure term for a water clock) and lavish description bogs down the narrative, including a seaside estate where every. Blessed. Object. has an oceanic theme and is described in detail. Our heroine starts to have everything come too easily to her -- beauty, the love of powerful men, wits and learning to pick up any task within days or minutes of learning it. Boring court politics kill time. The Idiot Ball hot potato game begins to hold sway over the narrative, and the explanation of how Ashalind came to become the mute is very unsatisfying, including an extremely stupid definition of \"kiss.\" The writer could have spun a really fascinating sequel out of the material she had -- the relationship between Ashalind and my aforementioned favorite character, the bond that Ashalind has with fairy creatures, the search for her family. But instead the author focuses on what are the weakest and most boring possible elements that she could choose, and sadly, the third book is only going to make things worse. And I really cannot forgive Dart-Thornton for introducing a character who is a fisherman's daughter and has the name \"Anne Chovy.\" ...more La Thornton resta fedele ad uno stile narrativo calmo e minuzioso, anche se il generale avanzamento della trama \u00e8 pi\u00f9 rapido - o meno lento? - rispetto al primo volume della trilogia. Tenuta come schiava nella Torre di Isse, muta e sfigurata, Imhrien \u00e8 riuscita a fuggire dalla sua prigionia e, dopo un viaggio lungo e difficile, ha ritrovato una voce e un volto, ma il suo passato \u00e8 rimasto avvolto nel mistero. La speranza di riuscire a spezzare l\u2019incantesimo che le oscura la memoria, unita a quel La Thornton resta fedele ad uno stile narrativo calmo e minuzioso, anche se il generale avanzamento della trama \u00e8 pi\u00f9 rapido - o meno lento? - rispetto al primo volume della trilogia. Tenuta come schiava nella Torre di Isse, muta e sfigurata, Imhrien \u00e8 riuscita a fuggire dalla sua prigionia e, dopo un viaggio lungo e difficile, ha ritrovato una voce e un volto, ma il suo passato \u00e8 rimasto avvolto nel mistero. La speranza di riuscire a spezzare l\u2019incantesimo che le oscura la memoria, unita a quella di ritrovare Thorn, il misterioso cavaliere che ha conquistato il suo cuore, la spingono verso la citt\u00e0 reale di Caermelor, dove si presenta a corte vestendo una falsa identit\u00e0: Lady Rohain, Dama delle Isole Sorrows. Tuttavia, nell\u2019attesa del ritorno dell\u2019Imperatore - impegnato a difendere i confini con le Terre del Nord, dove si stanno radunando orde di esseri demoniaci - Lady Rohain rimane ben presto invischiata nei giochi di potere di nobili senza scrupoli e nei tranelli di una rivale gelosa. Cos\u00ec, per proteggere se stessa e l\u2019uomo che ama, la Dama delle Isole \u00e8 costretta a intraprendere un nuovo, pericoloso viaggio alla ricerca della sua vera identit\u00e0, anche perch\u00e9 \u00e8 lei l\u2019obiettivo delle forze del male: sar\u00e0 un cammino sar\u00e0 lungo e difficile, punteggiato da insidie in agguato a ogni svolta della strada e dietro ogni albero, perch\u00e9 qualcuno \u00e8 sulle sue tracce... un essere cos\u00ec malvagio da essere disposto a distruggere un intero mondo pur di trovarla. Qualche citazione: \"La grandi aspettative sono il preludio delle grandi delusioni\" \"Quando la follia del mondo travalica ogni limite consueto, le vittime di tale follia devono chiudere la porta della propria mente oppure esserne invase, trasformate e spezzate dall'assurdit\u00e0, dall'orrore e dalla sofferenza\" ...more The story is wonderful and told in such a beautiful and poetic way. As in the first book, I found the last 30 or so pages difficult to read for some reason and some things didn't make complete sense to me. Once I was well into the second book I realized that the confusing bits at the end of book 1 were making sense. I hope that book three will help me with the end of book 2. Due to this irregularity, I don't think any of the books could ever be stand alone books. :) In this second instalment, Rohain has her voice back and also her face. She disguises herself and goes to court as Rohain of the Sorrow Isles so she can gain an audience with the King-Emperor. During this book her goals are to regain her memory and to hopefully see Thorn again, a kind warrior of the King-Emperor's who saved her and her companion in the first book. Near the end of the book Rohain starts having memory flashes, introducing the reader to the world of the golden-haired race that has l In this second instalment, Rohain has her voice back and also her face. She disguises herself and goes to court as Rohain of the Sorrow Isles so she can gain an audience with the King-Emperor. During this book her goals are to regain her memory and to hopefully see Thorn again, a kind warrior of the King-Emperor's who saved her and her companion in the first book. Near the end of the book Rohain starts having memory flashes, introducing the reader to the world of the golden-haired race that has long been dwindling in recent times. To see anyone with natural blonde hair is very rare. We gain more knowledge through stories of the Faraen. I quite like this because the more they are mentioned in the first book, the more the reader wonders what happened to them, so it's nice that the author actually answers the unasked question. One fact I like about this series is at the beginning of each chapter, there's a little verse of poetry relevant to the chapter. Each is 'written' by someone in the book, e.g. a commoner of the land, a song of a well known bard, etc. I think this is a nice unique touch. Again, this second installment does not disappoint. The author keeps to the same level of detail and introduces riddles and more twists to the story. Rohain's past is quite interesting and the romance of Rohain and Thorn is also quite cute. I'd still recommend this book but only if you've read the first, otherwise there's no way you could understand it. Enjoy. ...more I bought the first book in the bitter bind trilogy at a used book store, I enjoyed it enough to continue the story. However, I don't have a lot of time for reading when school is in session, so I bought the audio version. This highlighted some flaws in the writing style that I hadn't noticed when I had been reading. Ms. Thornton, while weaving an intriguing plot, could have cut out about a quarter to a third of her novel by reducing the verbiage. I like it when authors paint a picture for me, bu I bought the first book in the bitter bind trilogy at a used book store, I enjoyed it enough to continue the story. However, I don't have a lot of time for reading when school is in session, so I bought the audio version. This highlighted some flaws in the writing style that I hadn't noticed when I had been reading. Ms. Thornton, while weaving an intriguing plot, could have cut out about a quarter to a third of her novel by reducing the verbiage. I like it when authors paint a picture for me, but don't enjoy having every minute detail spelled out. However, when reading books this type of run on is easy enough to overcome by just mildly skimming through the passage, thus, its not so much of a problem (its highly annoying when listening however). Because I am writing this review on the text version of the book I give it 3 stars, despite the excessive detail. I enjoyed it, and if one reads, then they can, as I said, skip through the descriptions of halls and clothes. As with the first book, Thornton ends the book in such a way as to force you to read the second one. Which I suppose is good if you want to sell more copies, though, now I will have to wait to read it since I certainly do not want to listen to these books again. ...more Complicated. I've read some of Dart-Thornton's other works,and this one rings true with the others. The plot is tricky, but foreshadows just enough to keep you proposing how it might work out. But be warned, if you intend to read any of her works, have a very good dictionary kept nearby at all times. Some of the passages, especially those used for setting up scenes, use lots of unfamiliar words. I liked it though. This wasn't one of those books I could just fly through, I had to stop and pick up Complicated. I've read some of Dart-Thornton's other works,and this one rings true with the others. The plot is tricky, but foreshadows just enough to keep you proposing how it might work out. But be warned, if you intend to read any of her works, have a very good dictionary kept nearby at all times. Some of the passages, especially those used for setting up scenes, use lots of unfamiliar words. I liked it though. This wasn't one of those books I could just fly through, I had to stop and pick up something lighter at times. Never the less, I enjoyed it, and give it 3.5 stars. Imrhien, a scarred mute with no past, has finally made it to White Down Rory and been treated by the carlin (wise-woman) there. With a face and a voice, she heads off to the capital, hoping to give news to the king about treasure, and also see Thorn, the handsome ranger she fell for. There are a lot of twists, most of which were pleasant surprises, but it rings true to life, where nothing can be predicted absolutely. For a heavier fantasy read, I'd definitely recommend this ...more 4/10 Sulla linea del precedente (vd la mia recensione), con la differenza che in questo secondo volume abbiamo una trama pi\u00f9 compatta (pro) pur se sempre lentissima nel suo complesso, e incentrata quasi completamente sulla storia d'amore (contro). A pi\u00f9 riprese, \u201cLa dama delle isole\u201d ricorda molto da vicino una riscrittura medioevale di Twilight: lei \u00e8 una \u201cbanale\u201d umana che pende dalle labbra del suo amante immortale e innaturalmente fascinoso, lo fissa per periodi di tempo patologicamente lungh 4/10 Sulla linea del precedente (vd la mia recensione), con la differenza che in questo secondo volume abbiamo una trama pi\u00f9 compatta (pro) pur se sempre lentissima nel suo complesso, e incentrata quasi completamente sulla storia d'amore (contro). A pi\u00f9 riprese, \u201cLa dama delle isole\u201d ricorda molto da vicino una riscrittura medioevale di Twilight: lei \u00e8 una \u201cbanale\u201d umana che pende dalle labbra del suo amante immortale e innaturalmente fascinoso, lo fissa per periodi di tempo patologicamente lunghi, si strugge sulla sfumatura di indaco ceruleo blallo glitterato dei suoi occhi e via cos\u00ec, in un'escalation di stucchevoli romanticherie che ammazzerebbero Grumpy Cat per diabete fulminante. L'unico colpo di scena degno di questo nome \u00e8 talmente telefonato che si poteva intuire dal volume precedente, la rivelazione sul passato della protagonista \u00e8 abbastanza loffia e caduta dal cielo e le sue duecento identit\u00e0 alternative (Imhrien, Rohain,Tahquil, Elindor, Ashalind... ) cominciano a dare sui nervi \u2013 e a sbancare il Mary Sue Test. ...more I think it's saying something that upon leaving the book in a different place than usual, it took me two/three months to conjure the effort to go find it and finish it. I will not be continuing with this series any longer, this book just destroyed all hopes I had of it picking up the further it went. I don't mind flowery language, however, this was far too much (worse even than the first book) and the plot (of what little there was) was lost. Along with the cringeworthy love interest, progressiv I think it's saying something that upon leaving the book in a different place than usual, it took me two/three months to conjure the effort to go find it and finish it. I will not be continuing with this series any longer, this book just destroyed all hopes I had of it picking up the further it went. I don't mind flowery language, however, this was far too much (worse even than the first book) and the plot (of what little there was) was lost. Along with the cringeworthy love interest, progressively irritating main character and everything being bogged down by mediocre fables I struggled to finish this book, and contented myself with speed scanning the last two-thirds of the book - although I wouldn't have bothered with even that if it wasn't for my slightly neurotic goal to finish all the books I start. ...more Senza dubbio un romanzo avvincente e ricco di stile. Mi \u00e8 piaciuto abbastanza, ma \"La ragazza della Torre\" conserva sempre un certo fascino che ai miei occhi vince sulla \"Dama delle Isole\". Le descrizioni restano sempre ineluttabilmente lunghe e noiose, ma per il resto ci siamo. Eccezion fatta per la parte finale, nella quale invece di piazzarci la storia macinata e rimacinata del Pifferaio, si poteva trovare qualcosa di diverso, e mi sembra alla Thornton la capacit\u00e0 non manchi. Affascinanti la Senza dubbio un romanzo avvincente e ricco di stile. Mi \u00e8 piaciuto abbastanza, ma \"La ragazza della Torre\" conserva sempre un certo fascino che ai miei occhi vince sulla \"Dama delle Isole\". Le descrizioni restano sempre ineluttabilmente lunghe e noiose, ma per il resto ci siamo. Eccezion fatta per la parte finale, nella quale invece di piazzarci la storia macinata e rimacinata del Pifferaio, si poteva trovare qualcosa di diverso, e mi sembra alla Thornton la capacit\u00e0 non manchi. Affascinanti la trama, la storia, i personaggi... Anzi, per quanto riguarda i personaggi ho una critica da fare: Thorn. Al contrario di tutti gli altri personaggi ben caratterizzati e congegnati, Thorn mi sembra un super-stereotipo buttato l\u00ec ad muzzum. Speriamo in una sua ripresa. ...more The interesting part of this novel is the telling of multiple stories within that connect to the main plot in some sense or another rather than simply explaining the method behind them. Dart-Thornton supplies character background via faerie tales from our world most of which are rather obscure though the Pied Piper may ring bells for some audiences. The Court intrigue aspect is a tad boring and the switching of names for the main character is slightly disturbing though her identity as Ashalind i The interesting part of this novel is the telling of multiple stories within that connect to the main plot in some sense or another rather than simply explaining the method behind them. Dart-Thornton supplies character background via faerie tales from our world most of which are rather obscure though the Pied Piper may ring bells for some audiences. The Court intrigue aspect is a tad boring and the switching of names for the main character is slightly disturbing though her identity as Ashalind is obvious from the beginning. The human characters are suitably realistic while the Fair Folk remain mysterious and different even when connection is made showing the difference of the two worlds/cultures. ...more Read the first book ages ago and came across this recently, will see if I remember the story. Still reading but the story isn't really involving, perhaps it has been too long since reading the Ill Made Mute which I do recall having liked. The descriptions in the story are becoming tedious and remind me of when as a child,describing my own idealistic homes, the plates of gold and jewel encrusted goblets with swaths of silks on the walls. Well this takes that a hundred times further. In order to ge Read the first book ages ago and came across this recently, will see if I remember the story. Still reading but the story isn't really involving, perhaps it has been too long since reading the Ill Made Mute which I do recall having liked. The descriptions in the story are becoming tedious and remind me of when as a child,describing my own idealistic homes, the plates of gold and jewel encrusted goblets with swaths of silks on the walls. Well this takes that a hundred times further. In order to get across the opulence every room is inventoried and all of its precious metals and jewels described for us. ...more I just read the book \"The Mysteries\" and I find it very interesting that the myths from that book are found all throughout these books. Very coincidental reading on my part. It's because both authors used existing myths in their books. This book was very good. It actually dragged in the middle. For some reason there are long periods of inactivity by the main character in which the reader is stultified by long passages of description (over which I quickly skimmed). But in the last 3rd of the book I just read the book \"The Mysteries\" and I find it very interesting that the myths from that book are found all throughout these books. Very coincidental reading on my part. It's because both authors used existing myths in their books. This book was very good. It actually dragged in the middle. For some reason there are long periods of inactivity by the main character in which the reader is stultified by long passages of description (over which I quickly skimmed). But in the last 3rd of the book finally something huge began and I was totally engrossed. That last 3rd is probably why this book got 4 stars from me. ...more The continuation of The Ill-Made Mute . Imhrien becomes a lady of the court, and ends up dodging attacks from ill-intentioned humans and fey creatures. Why does Thorn fall in love with her? Because she's humble? Or beautiful? or because he disregards the fact that loving her is actually rather cruel? I don't know. I did sort of enjoy reading about Imhrien fumbling through life at court like any one of us would, and the events of her journey northward are exciting. Again, I love the legendary fey crea The continuation of The Ill-Made Mute . Imhrien becomes a lady of the court, and ends up dodging attacks from ill-intentioned humans and fey creatures. Why does Thorn fall in love with her? Because she's humble? Or beautiful? or because he disregards the fact that loving her is actually rather cruel? I don't know. I did sort of enjoy reading about Imhrien fumbling through life at court like any one of us would, and the events of her journey northward are exciting. Again, I love the legendary fey creatures that Thornton weaves in, and again, the serendipity of her travails and travels wore on me. ...more Again the mystery lady seems to trudge everywhere with a fae entourage. and there's more walking. and mild peril, and eventual romance, snatched away by more fae. It's a detailed world and the hierarchy of the non mortals both seelie and unseelie is impressive. characters change their names more often than their socks, which can make for some confusion. It still takes ages to get anywhere. safety is short lived and the protagonist and her companions have a pretty rough time of it. Determined to Again the mystery lady seems to trudge everywhere with a fae entourage. and there's more walking. and mild peril, and eventual romance, snatched away by more fae. It's a detailed world and the hierarchy of the non mortals both seelie and unseelie is impressive. characters change their names more often than their socks, which can make for some confusion. It still takes ages to get anywhere. safety is short lived and the protagonist and her companions have a pretty rough time of it. Determined to finish this volume and the next, but I think I have had my year's supply of landscape descriptions. ...more<---C>Cecilia Dart-Thornton</---C>", "Title": "The Lady of the Sorrows"},
