{"Comments": "I do love Ms. Anderson\u2019s storylines and have rated a lot of her books five stars; I have tagged and shelved her as an \u201cauto-buy-author\u201d. So, why only three stars? I should tell you up front, I\u2019m not a big fan of the rape theme; however, she\u2019s one of the few authors who could (<---B>note use of past tense here</---B>) incorporate this horrible, devastating event into a beautiful story as she did in Annie's Song and Seventh Heaven . That said,<---M> sometimes she seems to do the rape</---M>, rape, rape theme too much (I I do love Ms. Anderson\u2019s storylines and have rated a lot of her books five stars; I have tagged and shelved her as an \u201cauto-buy-author\u201d. So, why only three stars? I should tell you up front, I\u2019m not a big fan of the rape theme; however, she\u2019s one of the few authors who could (note use of past tense here) incorporate this horrible, devastating event into a beautiful story as she did in Annie's Song and Seventh Heaven . That said, sometimes she seems to do the rape, rape, rape theme too much (IMHO). The Rocky Mountains In this one the murderous outlaws capture the heroine and hold her hostage while they molest and abuse her for days on end. (view spoiler) [Oh, they keep her \u201ctechnically pure\u201d b/c they plan on selling her as a virgin south of the border (Mexico). (hide spoiler) ] This goes on for a while, the hero is helpless to intervene, and it just got to be too much for me. While I liked some of the interactions between the hero and heroine, Matthew and Eden, and I like stories about trekking through the mountains * , there were parts that were just too boring even for me; I found myself skimming parts of a CA\u2019s book for the first time ever.<---F> In addition, some parts were repetitive</---F>. I liked Eden; though she had more than her share of Paxton stubbornness, she is not a whiner and she definitely is not a TSTL heroine. And Mathew Coulter is a perfect tormented hero. They become friends long before they become lovers. Their scenes together are quite lovely. Here is one that takes place soon after he recues her: \u201cMr. Coulter!\u201d she cried. He drew Smokey to a stop and whirled in the saddle to look at her. Eden was about to admonish him for his callous disregard of the beauty around them when she realized she was looking down the barrel of a Colt revolver. He\u2019d drawn the weapon with such speed that she hadn\u2019t seen his hand move. \u201cWhat?\u201d he asked, scanning the trail behind her. \u201cDid you see something?\u201d Eden moistened her lips and tried to swallow. Her throat had gone as dry as parchment paper. If he wanted to destroy every wildflower in his path, who was she to argue? Had she learned nothing during her time with the Sebastians? The trick to surviving was to do as she was told and keep her mouth shut. \u201cNothing, I saw nothing,\u201d she managed to push out weakly. \u201cNothing? You scared the holy hell out of me.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m sorry. I didn\u2019t mean to startle you. It\u2019s just \u2013\u201d He holstered the weapon and reined Smoky around to face her. \u201cJust what?\u201d Eden glanced at the clematis bells that his gelding\u2019s back hooves were brutalizing. \u201cNothing. It was nothing.\u201d \u201cYou screamed my name. You must have had a reason.\u201d \u201cI didn\u2019t scream .\u201d Why was it so infernally difficult for her to keep quiet? Joseph often said her tongue was tied in the middle and loose at both ends, and Eden couldn\u2019t rightly argue the point. \u201cI just want to warn you\u2013\u201d She broke off and tried to swallow again. \u201cYou, um, were about to let Smoky trample the clematis.\u201d \u201cTrample the what ?\u201d Eden inclined her head at the beautiful flowers behind him. \u201cThe sugarbowl clematis. They\u2019re so beautiful, like little church bells, and you were about to ruin them.\u201d He glanced over his shoulder and stared at the flowers for a long, tension-packed moment. Then, meeting her gaze, he rubbed a callused hand over his face and blinked as if he hoped the picture might change once his vision came back into focus. \u201cAre you saying that you screeched like that to save some flowers ? Sweet Christ, lady, I could\u2019ve shot you!\u201d In this story Ms. Anderson has backed off on becoming a bit preachy on the religious overtones she definitely had in Morning Light . Still, CA latest books seem to be going more and more toward \u201cone-foot-on-the floor\u201d love scenes. That is fine with me, as I sometimes read and enjoy (if they\u2019re not unnecessarily moralistic) Harlequin\u2019s Love Inspired romances that contain no mention of sex at all and are often about men or women of faith. While I sometimes like a little delay in the sexual culmination of an earlier declared love, this was a bit \u201ctoo little too late\u201d. Just because CA is headed toward PG-13, that doesn\u2019t necessarily mean she has to let go of the S.T.E.A.M.; you can read love scenes from some of her earlier work, such as the delightful Simply Love , to know that. Over all, I was a bit disappointed; however, a three star rating is still good! *Recommendations of excellent trekking through the mountain stories, by other authors, I\u2019ve read this year: [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This story didn't have a whole heck of a lot going on, but I loved it anyway. The reason I enjoyed it? The hero and heroine, Matthew Coulter and <---C>Eden Paxton</---C>. Wonderful characters. Even though it took a long time for their romance to get physical , I enjoyed reading about their backstories and loved seeing their relationship evolve into what started out as mistrust, to a gradual friendship, and then to an intense desire and need and then a romantic love. Matthew and Eden were terrific characters-- This story didn't have a whole heck of a lot going on, but I loved it anyway. The reason I enjoyed it? The hero and heroine, Matthew Coulter and Eden Paxton. Wonderful characters. Even though it took a long time for their romance to get physical , I enjoyed reading about their backstories and loved seeing their relationship evolve into what started out as mistrust, to a gradual friendship, and then to an intense desire and need and then a romantic love. Matthew and Eden were terrific characters--I especially enjoyed Eden's spunkiness and courage, and Matthew was one of those quiet heroes whose actions speak louder than words--although I must admit when Matthew did speak about his feelings for Eden, it brought some tears to my eyes. <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> is a wonderful storyteller, and from the opening chapter I was glued to the story and couldn't wait to see what would happen next. Basically the plot is this: In 1887 Matthew Coulter's whole happy world vanishes in the blink of an eye when a notorious gang of outlaws (the Sebastian brothers) attack him and his newly pregnant wife, shooting, pistol whipping and beating him into unconsciousness, and raping and murdering his wife. Matthew barely survives the attack, and vows to avenge his wife's murder. So he packs his bags and leaves his family's Oregon home, tracking the wily band of murderous thieves for three years with only his trusted horse and pack mule for companions. Matthew's life is empty, his heart broken, and his only goal in life is to wipe out the Sebastians or die trying. Beautiful red-headed Eden Paxton is heading to Colorado to live with her half brothers after a broken engagement has her leaving San Francisco in disgrace. When her train is ambushed by the notorious Sebastian brothers and Eden sacrifices herself to save a small child, the Sebastians decide to kidnap her and sell her to an old Mexican across the border who will pay big money for her virgin body. When Matthew's tracking of the Sebastians leads him to the scene of the abduction, he decides to set out to see if he can rescue the young woman from the band of low-lifes. He doubts he'll find her alive, but it's worth a shot. Days later he finally finds them abusing Eden (who is miraculously still alive) and though everything in his body tells him to shoot them all dead, he can't risk Eden getting caught in the cross-fire. So he devises a risky plan to save her, but this plan still leaves the Sebastians alive. After the rescue of Eden, the plot is just basically what Matthew and Eden go through to get her safely to her brothers while trying to elude the Sebastians, who are hot on their trail, and dealing with all the hazards while trekking through the wilderness (snakes! a mountain lion attack!) Along the way Matthew deals with his feelings of guilt and unworthiness for not adequately protecting his wife, while Eden deals with her feelings of guilt for doing what she had to in order to survive. After a few days of mistrust by Eden, they settle into a friendship after Eden realizes that she can trust a man again, and Eden helps Matthew come to terms with his feelings of unworthiness for not being able to protect his wife. This friendship later develops into desire and need (on both sides), but Matthew is reluctant to go any further because of his vow to avenge his late wife's murder, and his new vow to avenge Eden's abuse. And what if he gives his heart to Eden, and something happens to her too? Can he get past that fear? Will Eden be able to convince Matthew that the time for vengeance should be over, and move on to a new life? I know a lot of readers didn't enjoy this book because a lot of time (weeks) was spent on Eden and Matthew just trekking through the wilderness, often going in circles while trying to elude the Sebastians (who were one disgusting band of evilness). But I didn't mind this plot device. It gave Eden and Matthew time to get to know one another; they both opened up about themselves and revealed things that they never told anyone before. I think this time together made their eventual romance that much more believable and meaningful. I loved how plain spoken Eden was--she came right out and boldly told Matthew she had feelings for him. I loved how she told Matthew that it was okay that there could be room in his heart for a new love, and that his late wife would always hold a piece of his heart. I loved how she broke through all his defenses and got him to live again. And I especially loved that Eden was a woman who could handle herself--she was an expert markswoman who could handle a weapon, and singlehandedly saved Matthew from a snake attack and held her own in their ultimate faceoff against the Sebastians. Eden was one courageous, very likable, kickass heroine, and I was rooting for her all the way. The love scenes? Well, it seemed like it took forever to get there, and they were sort of PG in nature, but I had no doubt that they were love scenes, and not sex scenes. There was nothing very explicit, and some were referred to rather than shown, but I enjoyed them anyway. Both Matthew and Eden had some very romantic things to say, which caused me to tear up a time or two. I loved them as a couple. So fans of Catherine Anderson, IMO this was one of her better books, unless you're put off by the \"eluding the bad guys\" plot. I enjoyed it, and thought the pacing was pretty good and the romance was solid. There is a bit of violence that you have to deal with (the description of what happened to Matthew's wife Livvy was hard to read, as well as the Sebastians \"playing\" and near rape of Eden; the violent train attack) and I'm sure you'll want to see those despicable Sebastians get theirs. There was a nail biting climax (where Eden's brothers make an eleventh hour appearance), a HEA, and a nice little epilogue. I couldn't ask for much more--and now that I've rediscovered Catherine Anderson, I think I'll backtrack and read one of this book's predecessors, Keegan's Lady . If you like a quiet, tortured hero and a courageous, spunky heroine who find love and are willing to sacrifice themselves for that love, then you'll enjoy this book. 4 1/2 stars ...more I had some wariness coming in to reading this book. I've read so many Catherine Anderson books that I've loved, but then some of the recent few have been so-so and including a lot of religion. So I wasn't sure what to expect of this book. But this ended up being a good one. I enjoyed it a lot, though the story wasn't perfect. Series Note: This book is connected to both other historicals by Anderson, and also her long-running contemporary series. The hero of this book is the ancestor of the contemp I had some wariness coming in to reading this book. I've read so many Catherine Anderson books that I've loved, but then some of the recent few have been so-so and including a lot of religion. So I wasn't sure what to expect of this book. But this ended up being a good one. I enjoyed it a lot, though the story wasn't perfect. Series Note: This book is connected to both other historicals by Anderson, and also her long-running contemporary series. The hero of this book is the ancestor of the contemporary Coulters. But I think this book could be read as a standalone. There are references to of Keegan's Lady and Summer Breeze that may make you want to go back and read their books, though. Summary: Eden Paxton suddenly finds herself at loose ends after her fiance dumps her and his family spreads vicious rumors about her. She and her mother are shunned from long-time friends. So they decide to travel to Colorado to live with her half-brothers. But on the way, the train is robbed and Eden is kidnapped by a nasty, vile gang who beats and abuses her. Hot on their tails is Matthew Coulter. He's been chasing the Sebastian Gang ever since they killed his wife and nearly him as well. He intends to exact his revenge, but when he finds a woman in dire trouble, he can do nothing but save her. With few options after the rescue, the two are forced to roam the wilds of Colorado, hoping to avoid the Gang who wants Eden back and Matthew dead. Along the way, the two develop a strong friendship. Eden is wary at first because of what she went through, but Matthew's kindness draws her. Unfortunately, Matthew has ghosts he has to lay to rest before he can give his heart to Eden. He's just not sure he can do it. Review: This book reminded me more of older Catherine Anderson books. I thought it had much more depth than some of her recent contemporaries. Maybe depth isn't the right word, but I just found this story so much more engaging than say Sun Kissed or Morning Light . Eden and Matthew are both sort of classic Anderson characters. Both are battered emotionally and physically. Matthew's scars run deep while Eden's are new. They were two characters who seemed to fit very well together. I liked the way Anderson wrote their interactions...Matthew'd been on the trail so long he'd become sort of uncivilized, but he begins to change with Eden around. I just liked the way to two complemented each other. For anyone looking for a passion-filled book...you won't find that here. The sexual relationship between the characters does not begin until late in the story...maybe around page 300 of 417 and the scenes are pretty PG/PG-13. So this is not a book to read for sex and steaminess. And just a warning...the beginning of this book does involve some moderately descriptive sexual assault against the heroine. Just something to be aware of. The one area I think this book could have been better was the plot. I liked the overall storyline, but the execution was a bit monotonous. Pretty much the entire book is Eden and Matthew roaming around the wilds of Colorado together. After a while, that got to be a little old. I didn't mind it too much...which is saying something considering how much I tend to dislike storylines where the H/H are lost in the wilderness...so it wasn't a big issue. But I do think the storyline could have had more variety. And also...there were some issues with logic and realism. I shook my head at a few things. It seemed like the H/H did everything the difficult way just to keep the story going. They could have solved their problems a lot quicker, I think. Still, I really enjoyed this story. I found it to be very readable and engaging. I was sucked into the story once I started and wanted to keep reading. ...more Catherine Anderson is one my top favorite romance authors, but I just don't think she writes with the same passion that she used to. Compared to Comanche Moon, Comanche Heart, and Keegan's Lady, this book was pretty tepid. Eden is abducted by outlaws while on her way to join her brothers in Colorado. They abuse her but don't rape her, planning on selling her across the border. Matthew Coulter, whose wife was killed by the outlaws, has been hunting them for 3 years. He rescues Eden, temporarily s Catherine Anderson is one my top favorite romance authors, but I just don't think she writes with the same passion that she used to. Compared to Comanche Moon, Comanche Heart, and Keegan's Lady, this book was pretty tepid. Eden is abducted by outlaws while on her way to join her brothers in Colorado. They abuse her but don't rape her, planning on selling her across the border. Matthew Coulter, whose wife was killed by the outlaws, has been hunting them for 3 years. He rescues Eden, temporarily sacrificing his revenge for her safety. While evading the outlaws and leading them in circles, the two become friends and start falling in love, but Matthew is reluctant to betray the memory of his wife. I read it in one sitting, so I can't claim that it was terrible. Catherine Anderson is a beautiful writer. But there were just moments when I sort of rolled my eyes. Like Coulter's frequent internal monologue about whether or not Eden would recover and how some people never became \"right\" after such an experience. I guess compared to what Anderson's other heroines have lived through (Comanche Moon is the one that really comes to mind, and Keegan's Lady as well), Eden's \"ordeal\" sort of didn't seem that horrific. Anderson's writing has becoming increasingly Christian. I feel like she shied away from depicting things she was willing to face in her other novels. Eden was also stronger and more independent than her previous heroines. I like strong heroines--but at the same time I don't. Anderson's heroines are usually seriously messed up from all the abuse they've endured and really need the hero to be patient with them and coax them into opening up. I like that formula a lot and think Anderson is one of the best at it. So when you've got the strong-minded gun-slinging Eden bouncing back from her moderate-but-not-that-awful-trauma so fast, even though the story was decent and the leads had chemistry, it was kind of lacking and disappointing. Once in a while, I reread Keegan's Lady, Comanche Moon, Comanche Heart, Annie's Song, and a few other Anderson novels; there're some scenes that I really just think were terrific, like when Keegan goes home with Caitlin for the first time, or when Loretta warns Hunter about the snake. <+++>Early Dawn</+++> seriously didn't have a single scene I'd hunt for to reread. That's been true for the last few Anderson novels. Even if I read a book in one sitting, if it doesn't leave me with a single scene I'd want to revisit, it's sort of a bust for me. ...more Reviewed for THC Reviews <+++>Early Dawn</+++> is another sweet, historical romance from Catherine Anderson that was nearly perfect in every way. The hero and heroine are very much the focus of the story with the secondary characters only coming into play during the first few chapters and the last few chapters. The rest of the time it's all about Matthew and Eden as they get acquainted and learn to trust each other while riding around the Colorado wilderness, trying to evade the bad guys. With only two char Reviewed for THC Reviews Early Dawn is another sweet, historical romance from Catherine Anderson that was nearly perfect in every way. The hero and heroine are very much the focus of the story with the secondary characters only coming into play during the first few chapters and the last few chapters. The rest of the time it's all about Matthew and Eden as they get acquainted and learn to trust each other while riding around the Colorado wilderness, trying to evade the bad guys. With only two characters in play for the bulk of the story, and with them, on the surface, just running in circles, it might seem that this would be a boring narrative, but in my opinion, Early Dawn was anything but. I'm still marveling at how she did it, but Ms. Anderson managed to turn this into a very engaging story. The threat from the villains, as well as wildlife, made for enough action and adventure to keep things moving along at a nice pace. This was combined with lots of wonderful getting-to-know-you moments for Matthew and Eden. They also share plenty of tender interactions before finally giving in to their growing feelings for one another. Everything just came together to create a very enjoyable read. The story gets off to an intense start with Matthew regaining consciousness after sustaining grievous injuries when he and his wife were attacked by the notorious bandits known as the Sebastian gang. He finds out very quickly that his wife was brutally raped and murdered, then we fast-forward three years. During that entire time, Matthew has been relentlessly tracking the Sebastians, feeding an almost obsessive need for vengeance. Despite his deep desire to bring justice to his wife's killers, when Matthew discovers that they're holding another young woman hostage and abusing her, he puts his own desires on hold in order to rescue her. From the moment he made the decision to get Eden out of the Sebastians' clutches, he took on full responsibility for her protection which is a very admirable trait. After spending three years with mostly only his horse and pack mule for company, Matthew isn't much of a talker, but I have to give him credit for figuring out fairly quickly that Eden needed him to be a little more forthcoming in order to fully trust him. From there on out, he's completely open and honest with her, and it pays off in spades with her warming up to him pretty quickly after that. They form a deep friendship that slowly blossoms into love. I adored all the little things Matthew did to make Eden feel more safe and comfortable around him. He may be a man of few words, at least initially, but he knows how to speak volumes through his actions. Matthew is a thoroughly honorable gentleman who considers himself to be married to Eden from the first time he makes love to her. Deep down, Matthew was a sweet, peaceable guy who was driven by extraordinary circumstances to seek vigilante justice. On the outside, he's a little rough, but inside he has a tender heart that was badly broken by the loss of his first wife, a woman he loved very much. At first, he's afraid to love Eden. He doesn't view himself as a good husband after what happened with his wife, but Eden slowly convinces him otherwise. Eden is a dichotomous young lady. She grew up with her older brother Ace teaching her how to handle a gun, ride a horse, and work with cattle, so she's not afraid of the outdoors or hard work. The last several years though, she's spent as a proper lady, attending a fancy girl's finishing school, and socializing in the drawing rooms of San Francisco society. Her fianc\u00e9 broke off their engagement when his family discovered she was illegitimate, but rather than stopping there, they sullied her name in all the circles where she'd previously mingled. To escape the embarrassment, Eden and her mother decide to move to No Name, Colorado to be near her brothers, and it's on the train ride there that she is abducted by the Sebastian gang. Eden had a very level head, trying to collect all their valuables before the bandits got to them in hopes they'd just take their things and leave them alone. She also had spunk to throw herself between the gang and a crying child and his mother, trying to protect them even after having witnessed them killing at least three people. She fought her captors tooth and nail too until she was knocked unconscious. Every night when they made camp, the five Sebastian brothers passed her around, physically and sexually abusing her, but stopping just short of outright rape, because they were intending to sell her across the border in Mexico and needed to keep her virginity intact in order to get a good price. Throughout her ordeal, Eden managed to keep her head up quite admirably, although by the time Matthew rescues her a lot of the fight had understandably gone out of her. Still, after the rescue, she traveled without complaint in spite of suffering severe pain from broken ribs and initially being afraid of Matthew, not knowing what his intentions were. Gradually, she begins to see Matthew for the kindhearted person he is and grows to love him, not just as her heroic rescuer, but as a wonderful man who would give his life to keep her safe. When Matthew started falling for her too, he said a few rather harsh things to her out of fear, but Eden was intelligent and intuitive enough to realize that he was probably only saying them because his feelings for her scared him. She is extremely understanding and supportive of Matthew's love for his first wife too. She never tried to force him to forget the other woman, but instead encouraged him to make room for her in his heart as well. All in all, Eden was a wonderful well-rounded heroine who could be tough on the outside but had a heart of gold inside. As I mentioned earlier, the secondary characters don't play big roles. The entire Sebastian gang were some of the most dastardly villains I've ever read in a romance. Their evil deeds fuel a large part of the story, but thankfully, they're only present for a relatively small part of it. All four of Eden's brothers are out looking for her too and eventually, catch up with her and Matthew. As the oldest, Ace ( Keegan's Lady ), leads the charge, but Joseph ( Summer Breeze ) is perhaps the most protective and the toughest nut to crack when it comes to Matthew presenting his case for loving Eden and wanting to marry her. David, who becomes the hero of Lucky Penny , the next book in the Keegan-Paxton series, and Esa have small roles, as does Ace's wife and Eden's half-sister, Caitlin. Overall, Early Dawn was a sweet story that I thoroughly enjoyed, the best in the series so far in my opinion, and it really has me looking forward to reading David's book soon. ...more My friend Rachel told me about this author and I got to tell you CA is amaaazing!! I started this book yesterday and I couldn't put it down, staying up until 3AM to finish. The Sebastian gang are a ruthless group of brothers who destroy everything in their path. Eden Dorelle Paxton is a brave young h who was jilted by a mamas boy. The rumors that were spread forced her and her mother to take a train to Denver. The train is ambushed and Eden is abducted by the gang. Matthew James Coulter has been My friend Rachel told me about this author and I got to tell you CA is amaaazing!! I started this book yesterday and I couldn't put it down, staying up until 3AM to finish. The Sebastian gang are a ruthless group of brothers who destroy everything in their path. Eden Dorelle Paxton is a brave young h who was jilted by a mamas boy. The rumors that were spread forced her and her mother to take a train to Denver. The train is ambushed and Eden is abducted by the gang. Matthew James Coulter has been tracking the six brothers, after the death of his wife. The Sebastian gang took his everything three years ago but by some twist of fate they end up bringing his everything right back to him. He doesn't know it at first seeing first hand what the gang has put Eden through and all the memories it forces him to deal with. He is numb. I thought at first I would spend the book reading how he mourned over a woman long buried now. But it wasn't like that at all. He missed her sure, was saddened at how she left this world but it was more about him not being able to forgive himself. What you get is this delightful, romantic story of healing and forgiving. Eden is one tough lady and her brothers taught her well. She does not bulk under what the Sebastian's put her through. I will say the first part of the book is difficult to read but the author is not graphic with her descriptions she leaves it to your imagination, which is probably worse. LOL. The two spend over a month together keeping the gang guessing where they are in the hope that they would cross paths with her brothers. This is when the author worked her magic and convinced this reader how these two grew in love. Matthew says,\" You remember all those damned corners of the heart you told me about?\" A tiny frown pleated the flawless skin between her finely arched eyebrows. \"Yes.\" \"Well, a pretty, little, redhead with a fiery temper and a sassy mouth sneaked past my guard with a pick and chisel.\" There are no games or lies it is a couple who are trying to put their lives back together. The only sex elaborated on in this book is between the H/h and I have read more graphic so it is not over done. I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves romance and rebirth. Enjoy! ...more Just didn't do much for me. I wasn't impressed at all. I've read better by Anderson. The plot I thought had potential but it just seemed to drag on way too long. I love Catherine Anderson and I really enjoyed this book, but for me it's not up to par with the other books to this series. This story was okay in that it wasn't choppy or anything and the words flowed well etc. If it matters to you, the love scenes are very tame and the scenes where the girl is being abused by the bad guys are merely suggested and nothing is explicit at all. The loving each other part was okay but the story itself was lame plot wise. There will be a few SPOILERS below so don't continue if you don't want to know. Some of the decisions the hero made didn't make much sense. He's been hot on the trail o This story was okay in that it wasn't choppy or anything and the words flowed well etc. If it matters to you, the love scenes are very tame and the scenes where the girl is being abused by the bad guys are merely suggested and nothing is explicit at all. The loving each other part was okay but the story itself was lame plot wise. There will be a few SPOILERS below so don't continue if you don't want to know. Some of the decisions the hero made didn't make much sense. He's been hot on the trail of these bad guys for 3 years but he stops to bury an old man then goes for the doctor after a train wreck when there was a whole train full of people who could have gone. The author makes a point of saying that the hero has buried all his emotions so it didn't really ring true that he didn't ignore all this and chase the bad guys as quick as he could. When he finally rescues the girl then goes back to scatter their horses he doesn't shoot one or two of the drunk guys while he can. We're told that he practices all the time with his gun but he can't shoot 5 sleeping drunks? The worst part of the whole lame plot thing is that after he rescues the girl they spend 5 weeks wandering in circles trying to confuse the bad guys. The excuse is that the bad guys will catch them if he tries to make it to Denver. I'd think if he could hide from them for weeks while going in circles then he could hide her well enough on the trail to Denver, and I'd have had more respect for his character. A couple of close calls and a shoot out or two on the way would sure have livened this thing up. And the scene where she shoots 10s of snakes? Please. It seemed like a cartoon. Eventually, I just wanted the damn long camping trip to end. It wasn't plot it was just a bunch of words with no action. You know, I was going to go on with what else could have fixed the lame plot but I just can't care. All that being said I do usually enjoy this author's work and will not hold this not so good one against her but will try the next one. ...more I wish it hadn't taken me so long to finish this book,it took me awhile to get into the story but it wasn't the books fault. I also wanted to note that I added this to my \"rape\" shelf even though the h wasn't raped. The h was used as the bad guys nightly entertainment but they stopped just shy of actually penetrating her because they wanted to sell her, with her virginity in tact,across the boarder. She still has had all of the emotional issues to.deal with through out the book. Eden,(h) was on a I wish it hadn't taken me so long to finish this book,it took me awhile to get into the story but it wasn't the books fault. I also wanted to note that I added this to my \"rape\" shelf even though the h wasn't raped. The h was used as the bad guys nightly entertainment but they stopped just shy of actually penetrating her because they wanted to sell her, with her virginity in tact,across the boarder. She still has had all of the emotional issues to.deal with through out the book. Eden,(h) was on a train with her mother heading towords her brother Ace, and a new life. After her intended found out she was a bastard, he broke off their engagement and spread rumors about her,making it impossible for her and her mother to continue to live there. Along the way her train is held up and she is taken captive. Mathew (h) has been on the Sabastian gangs trail ever since they attacked and killed his wife and leaving him for dead. After years of near misses he's finally close enough to end this. That was until he saw that they had a young woman with them and watched what they were doing to her. Now he has to save her and get her to saftey before he can return to his vengeance. He also has to find a way to keep Eden from getting under his skin,he swore over his dead wife's grave that he would live her forever and he would make those responsible for her death pay....and pay big. He has no time and nothing else to give to anyone or anything else. ...more I used to like Catherine Anderson when I was younger. Her blend of psychologically scarred, fiesty heroines and strong, gentle heros made her a comfort-read for me. Now, though, I think the writing is too basic and simple. She doesn't really capture the true essence of a romance because... well, because the hero and heroine talk about every single silly issue that they have so that they are always perfectly understood, and so that they never have any conflict with each other. In a nutshell, what I used to like Catherine Anderson when I was younger. Her blend of psychologically scarred, fiesty heroines and strong, gentle heros made her a comfort-read for me. Now, though, I think the writing is too basic and simple. She doesn't really capture the true essence of a romance because... well, because the hero and heroine talk about every single silly issue that they have so that they are always perfectly understood, and so that they never have any conflict with each other. In a nutshell, what I didn't like about this book was that the characters were too perfect. Oh, she tried to make them flawed, both psychologically and personality-wise, but it just fell flat because their actions showed how loving/perfect they were. Eden and Matthew talked and became comfortable enough with each other - over a period of a few days - that it was as though they had been married for years. And they hammered out every. single. detail. that might have ever become a problem between them. And then Anderson spoon fed that mash to us as though we were newborns. All right, so maybe I'm being a little harsh here, or maybe it was just this specific novel. I definitely do still want to read more of her books so I can try to recapture the feeling that I had when I was younger (and likely less cynical). But do romances really have to be this cheesy? ...more I'm sad. Catherine Anderson has gone from \"rush to the bookstore and buy it the day it gets out\" to \"wait to find it at the used book store\" to \"only buy it if I find it at the thrift store or library book sale\". I used to buy her books and devour them in a day. Instead, I had to push myself to finish this one, and I end up skimming the last third of the book. Felt like another re-run to me. And the constant going in circles for weeks on end drove me crazy. I wanted to hero and heroine to just go I'm sad. Catherine Anderson has gone from \"rush to the bookstore and buy it the day it gets out\" to \"wait to find it at the used book store\" to \"only buy it if I find it at the thrift store or library book sale\". I used to buy her books and devour them in a day. Instead, I had to push myself to finish this one, and I end up skimming the last third of the book. Felt like another re-run to me. And the constant going in circles for weeks on end drove me crazy. I wanted to hero and heroine to just go to a city and have the standoff already. I also felt the heroine got over her abuse a bit too easily. Anderson has handled to topic of sexual assault before, and better than this. Also, I wondered why the hero couldn't take on the bad guys while they were asleep / passed out from drinking too much. Even if he had to save the heroine, why not get her out safely and then shoot them all? The element of surprise should have give him enough of an edge to kill them all before they managed to kill him, especially if he was as good with a gun as he claimed to be. What makes me really sad about this is that Catherine Anderson has written some of my desert island keepers. The only thing positive I have to say is that it wasn't preachy. This is going straight into my \"return for trade\" box. ...more I like Western historical romances and good ones are hard to find. (On a side note - for that matter - I'm looking anxiously forward to L. Lael Miller writing another winner some time soon). I've always enjoyed C. Anderson's books, but not lately. However, with this one she has gone back - a bit - to the \"freshness\" of her earlier books. Overall this was a good classic Western story. No need to go looking too much for a sense of realism, it's lacking in that department, but then it's mainly a ro I like Western historical romances and good ones are hard to find. (On a side note - for that matter - I'm looking anxiously forward to L. Lael Miller writing another winner some time soon). I've always enjoyed C. Anderson's books, but not lately. However, with this one she has gone back - a bit - to the \"freshness\" of her earlier books. Overall this was a good classic Western story. No need to go looking too much for a sense of realism, it's lacking in that department, but then it's mainly a romance story and in that the author did ok. Simply put; I let the story & characters come to me and enjoyed it. ...more Really enjoyed this one! A different pace than the other books I've read by CA, but a sweet read nonetheless.. I liked the fact that Matthew didn't pressure Eden for anything and that she didn't fall in lust with him right away, which would have been too improbable give what she'd been through (it was still a little fast, IMO, but then again, it is fiction and they are travelling together!).. Not my fave in the Coulter's Historicals (that would be Keegan's Lady ), but a solid 4*! This was a great book, I flew through it. I love everything Catherine Anderson has ever written and this book did not disapoint. I like that she has written some of her books in a series, when she writes a new one it is like visiting an old friend once again. I had to do nothing at home for a day and one half so that I could read this book from front to back, I don't do that often. You really must read her books if you have not read them before! Started out great and had a lot of potential. Unfortunately, it didn't quite live up to it. It got a little boring in places and it would have been nice to have a little more action going on. I'm torn between a 3 and 4 but decided to stick with a 3 due to the slow boring parts that had me skimming. Not my favorite of Catherine Anderson's books. This book dragged for me. I didn't even find much entertainment in the relationship between Matthew and Eden. Overly long and drawn out. This was an awesome book, i really like this author. \"Sinar mentari yang jatuh menembus dedaunan menari-nari diatas kepala mereka. Anak sungai bernyanyi di samping mereka. Kicauan burung terngiang-ngiang di benak Eden. Dihirupnya dalam-dalam udara yang menguarkan wangi bunga-bungaan\" Well, itu paragraf terakhir dari buku ini dan sepertinya itu salah satu alasan kenapa I love reading Catherine Anderson's book, yaitu penggambaran suasana alamnya. Jadi inget film seri Little House on the Prairie dan Dr.Quinn Medicine Woman, atau film2nya Janette Oke. \"Sinar mentari yang jatuh menembus dedaunan menari-nari diatas kepala mereka. Anak sungai bernyanyi di samping mereka. Kicauan burung terngiang-ngiang di benak Eden. Dihirupnya dalam-dalam udara yang menguarkan wangi bunga-bungaan\" Well, itu paragraf terakhir dari buku ini dan sepertinya itu salah satu alasan kenapa I love reading Catherine Anderson's book, yaitu penggambaran suasana alamnya. Jadi inget film seri Little House on the Prairie dan Dr.Quinn Medicine Woman, atau film2nya Janette Oke. Sepertinya saya memang suka dengan suasana western jaman cowboy^^. Early Dawn buku kedua dari Catherine Anderson yang telah dibaca dan sangat berniat untuk lanjut dengan buku2 Ms.Anderson lainnya. Buku ini menceritakan tentang Eden, adik wanita satu2nya dari keluarga Keegan-Paxton. Eden yang baru saja diputuskan oleh tunangannya dan rahasianya sebagai anak haram diketahui oleh umum akhirnya memutuskan untuk pindah ke No Name, Colorado tempat kakak2 lelakinya berada. Berdua dengan Ibunya, Eden naik kereta api menuju Colorado. Tapi di tengah perjalanan, kereta api mereka dihadang oleh Geng Sebastian, pencuri dan pembunuh yang keji. Karena melindungi seorang anak kecil Eden dibawa paksa oleh Geng Sebastian untuk dijual pada penawar tertinggi. Selama diculik oleh Geng Sebastian, Eden disiksa secara fisik dan mental dan juga dilecehkan. Ketika Eden sudah hampir tidak tahan lagi, Matthew Coulter datang menyelamatkannya. Matthew Coulter sudah memburu Geng Sebastian selama 3 tahun untuk membalas dendam atas kematian istri dan calon anak yang berada di dalam kandungan istrinya. Tapi alih-alih membalas dendam, ketika melihat Eden yang berada dalam cengkeraman Geng Sebastian yang sadis, Matthew memilih menyelamatkan Eden. Eden yang ketakutan awalnya tidak bisa mempercayai Matthew. Tapi perlahan tapi pasti, Eden bisa melihat ketulusan Matthew dan Matthew secara perlahan pula berhasil menghapuskan rasa takutnya terhadap sentuhan2 pria akibat dilecehkan oleh Geng Sebastian. Di lain pihak, kehadiran Eden membuat Matthew bisa tertawa lagi walaupun Eden gadis paling keras kepala yang pernah Matthew temui. Pelan-pelan Matthew terpikat pada keberanian dan ketabahan Eden. Tapi Matthew sudah berjanji di dalam hati hanya akan setia kepada istri pertamanya yang telah meninggal, Olivia dan membalas dendam terhadap Geng Sebastian adalah tujuan hidupnya saat ini. Matthew ragu dirinya bisa membahagiakan dan melindungi Eden. Berhasilkah Matthew membalas dendam terhadap Geng Sebastian? Dan apakah Matthew sanggup mengingkari janjinya kepada istri pertamanya yang telah meninggal? Apakah Eden akhirnya berhasil menghapuskan kenangan pahit akan pelecehan yang dideritanya? Sangat suka dengan endingnya. Buat pecinta HR, this is a must read book. No doubt. ...more This one was...a very mixed bag. Very. On one hand, we have the typical Broken Heroine complete with an ex-lover who makes me want to drop a safe on his head. Eden Paxton's ex-fiance not only ended their engagement, but let his parents drag her name through the mud just because she wasn't a pureborn high society girl like THEY wanted for him. So she goes back home with her mother to nurse her wounds. Then the poor woman gets captured by bandits who do everything short of raping her, and only bec This one was...a very mixed bag. Very. On one hand, we have the typical Broken Heroine complete with an ex-lover who makes me want to drop a safe on his head. Eden Paxton's ex-fiance not only ended their engagement, but let his parents drag her name through the mud just because she wasn't a pureborn high society girl like THEY wanted for him. So she goes back home with her mother to nurse her wounds. Then the poor woman gets captured by bandits who do everything short of raping her, and only because they want to sell her. The first few chapters of Eden being manhandled are VERY uncomfortable to read. :/ The hero of the story is Matthew Coulter, who's pretty broken himself. We start out with him waking up to discover a gang of bandits raped and murdered his wife, so he sets out on a revenge quest. Of course, he happens upon Eden with a gang of bandits...who just happen to be the ones he's chasing! He manages to free her and Eden has no choice but to go along with the guy she just met. So yes, fairly standard Catherine Anderson fare that brings almost nothing new to the table. But at the same time it wasn't such a bad read. Eden's got lots more salt than the typical Anderson heroine and even tries to fight back against the bandits. She's good with a gun, she doesn't spend the entire book wangsting about how she's defiled forever because those nasty men touched her outside the obligatory \"scrubbing herself raw\" scene. Matthew isn't Anderson's usual Perfect Cowboy with a magic cock to heal the heroine's trauma, but instead a bitter widower hellbent on revenge. And the \"second love\" was handled quite well, too. Matthew and Eden were clearly Meant To Be, but Matthew's love for his late wife Olivia remains strong and even when he decides to let go of his revenge and swear himself to Eden, it's clear he'll never really forget her. This being an Anderson book, though, we still have to have that Big Misunderstanding near the end where the couple gets into a giant fight, and to add salt to the wound Eden's brother scolds her for being selfish even though her feelings aren't THAT petty. But to their credit, the lovebirds make up before Matthew heads out. And thankfully, the bandits get what's coming to them. So overall, this book was...okay. Not the best of Anderson's library, but definitely not the worst. ...more I typically don\u2019t like, or tend to read, historical romance novels, but this one was quite good. Matthew Coulter has been on a three-year search for the Sebastian brothers\u2019 gang that raped and killed his first wife. His sworn vengeance has colored his view of humanity a relationships so far, that when he finally rescues the woman recently captured by the gang, he can\u2019t even string a sentence together to calm her down. But Eden Paxton is made of stronger stuff. A recent San Francisco-transplant, E I typically don\u2019t like, or tend to read, historical romance novels, but this one was quite good. Matthew Coulter has been on a three-year search for the Sebastian brothers\u2019 gang that raped and killed his first wife. His sworn vengeance has colored his view of humanity a relationships so far, that when he finally rescues the woman recently captured by the gang, he can\u2019t even string a sentence together to calm her down. But Eden Paxton is made of stronger stuff. A recent San Francisco-transplant, Eden is looking forward to the country life in Colorado before she is savagely taken by the gang. Her savior, Matthew, doesn\u2019t seem to remember how to be human, but Eden\u2019s persistence and charm won\u2019t give up easily. This book was a great mixture of good ol\u2019 fashioned drama, a little bit of comic relief, some interesting tidbits of historical information, and a great romantic sub-plot. These two unlikely characters find themselves forced to depend on each other, and eventually even learn to trust one another. Matthew is one of my favorite Anderson characters that I\u2019ve read to date. He\u2019s stubborn, but he realizes this about himself and doesn\u2019t let himself stew once he sees the other angles of a problem he\u2019s facing. Anderson loves horses, so much of the animal story-line was about Matthew\u2019s relationship with his animals and his caring and humane nature. Anderson is a great author to check out if you like a little more drama in your reading. I would recommend her if you like Nora Roberts, Susan Mallery or Kasey Michaels, but want to give historical romance a shot. I haven\u2019t read any books by Debbie Macomber, but I would imagine their styles are very similar, as she\u2019s one of the reviewers on the jacket of the book. Her stories tend to not be quite as action-packed as a Jennifer Cruisie book, or as funny as a Janet Evanovich, but she\u2019s a great storyteller nonetheless. To me, she seems to excel at setting a scene and really having you get to know the main characters really well through their actions. ...more Early Dawn is book 10 in Catherine Anderson's Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan series. This is my first in the series. I have only read Annie's Song by Anderson and I loved it. My friend had this book in her TBR pile and loaned it to me. It caught my eye because of the back cover. On it said that Eden Paxton was kidnapped and Matthew Coulter whose own wife was murdered at the hands of this terrible gang and he couldn't resist saving Eden. I was immediately hooked. I can't resist a kidnapping/rescue sto Early Dawn is book 10 in Catherine Anderson's Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan series. This is my first in the series. I have only read Annie's Song by Anderson and I loved it. My friend had this book in her TBR pile and loaned it to me. It caught my eye because of the back cover. On it said that Eden Paxton was kidnapped and Matthew Coulter whose own wife was murdered at the hands of this terrible gang and he couldn't resist saving Eden. I was immediately hooked. I can't resist a kidnapping/rescue story. I have to say that I thought that Early Dawn was a very solid story. Eden and Matthew are fully developed characters whose connection and love story develops very believably throughout the book. The things that Eden goes through are not for the faint of heart. Matthew's past is just as challenging. Both characters have a lot to overcome if they are going to get over their past and begin to love again. There are times when I thought that the story dragged a bit. In the beginning it takes a while before Matthew and Eden meet. Eventually, though the fact that so much time is spent on Eden and Matthew developing their relationship and the fact that it moves slowly is a benefit to the story. It helps the believability factor considering all that they have been through. There is a bit of sequel references. I don't feel that it detracted from Eden and Matthew's story. If anything it made me want to go back read about the other characters. I enjoyed this Western and feel that fans of Westerns will want to give this one a try. ...more As my first book by Catherine Anderson, I was happily surprised by just how great of a story this was. Anderson paints a magnificent picture of the Old West, full of danger, emotion, and drama. A wonderful book, a new favorite. Memorable Quotes: \"Nothing's certain in this life, unless you count being born and dying. Everything in between is a gamble and anyone who thinks otherwise is a damned fool.\" ~ pg. 86 \"We can forget the terrible times in our lives and try our best to be happy - or we can l As my first book by Catherine Anderson, I was happily surprised by just how great of a story this was. Anderson paints a magnificent picture of the Old West, full of danger, emotion, and drama. A wonderful book, a new favorite. Memorable Quotes: \"Nothing's certain in this life, unless you count being born and dying. Everything in between is a gamble and anyone who thinks otherwise is a damned fool.\" ~ pg. 86 \"We can forget the terrible times in our lives and try our best to be happy - or we can live in the past and feel awful until the day we die.\" ~ pg. 185 \"Love isn't something we can simply decide to stop feeling. It stays with us all our lives.\" ~ pg. 233 \"Bad things happen. We can't see them coming and there's nothing we can do to prevent them. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't all live life to its fullest.\" ~ pg. 248 \"Darkness is merely the opposite of daylight. Monsters don't come out just because the sun goes down.\" ~ pg. 293 \"Love that ends isn't really love.\" ~ pg. 334 \"When a man allowed himself to be consumed by hatred, he missed out on all the sweetest things life had to offer.\" ~ pg. 405 \"It's a mystery, isn't it, how limitless our capacity for love can be?\" ~ pg. 417 ...more Early Dawn Catherine Anderson 432 Pages In Early Dawn, it starts off with a man who gets in a tangle with a dangerous clan called the Sebastian gang. The man, Matt seeks revenge after he has been beaten to the point of a coma and sexually assaulting before raping and killing his young pregnant wife. Then the story shifts over and focuses on Eden Paxton's life with her very famous guy with an amazing family name. He then dumps her and she moves away. But on the way to her new home, a dangerous clan Early Dawn Catherine Anderson 432 Pages In Early Dawn, it starts off with a man who gets in a tangle with a dangerous clan called the Sebastian gang. The man, Matt seeks revenge after he has been beaten to the point of a coma and sexually assaulting before raping and killing his young pregnant wife. Then the story shifts over and focuses on Eden Paxton's life with her very famous guy with an amazing family name. He then dumps her and she moves away. But on the way to her new home, a dangerous clan stops the train..its the Sebastian gang. I think that this book was really intriguing, Catherine Anderson is great with love stories. They create an illusion of a person experiencing a heroic love story. It may be a bit predictable and repetitive but the content the story possesses makes for it. The writing style is in a third person, so you know what both characters feel about each other and their own characteristic. I love this book and its definitely a page turner. ...more I gave this book four stars for the excellent writing but it did drag some during the middle part of the book in spite of the cougar and snakes. At any rate, I was pleased to get Eden's story and the hook-up with the Coulters and especially an explanation for the letters. I was also pleased that when Ms. Anderson has an injured player, she doesn't slough it off in a few pages making them do things no sane person would do when injured. Her injured players stay true to form and deal with their inj I gave this book four stars for the excellent writing but it did drag some during the middle part of the book in spite of the cougar and snakes. At any rate, I was pleased to get Eden's story and the hook-up with the Coulters and especially an explanation for the letters. I was also pleased that when Ms. Anderson has an injured player, she doesn't slough it off in a few pages making them do things no sane person would do when injured. Her injured players stay true to form and deal with their injuries in a believable manner. Also, she is very clear on what a team has to do to survive in the wild. Having done my share of backpacking as a team member, I could really appreciate this. Definitely will re-read these all in time sequence order when Ms. Anderson gets the last stories done (David and Esa), although Matthew's family has a whole series of possible books, too, so it may be a while. ...more Akhirnya gw menemukan karakter herroine dari karya CA yg tangguh lagi seperti buku CA yg pertama diterjemahkan dastanbooks. Karena setelah buku pertama tsb, mayoritas herroine yg ada sangat memelas dan keras kepala, hanya merasa dirinya yg paling menderita sampe membuat sang hero harus memiliki persediaan kesabaran yg tiada habisnya baru bisa diterima. Dari Early Dawn akhirnya gw bisa nemu lagi Herroine yg ga menye2, yg mau berjuang bersama sang Hero, yg bisa mengungkapkan perasaan tanpa takut a Akhirnya gw menemukan karakter herroine dari karya CA yg tangguh lagi seperti buku CA yg pertama diterjemahkan dastanbooks. Karena setelah buku pertama tsb, mayoritas herroine yg ada sangat memelas dan keras kepala, hanya merasa dirinya yg paling menderita sampe membuat sang hero harus memiliki persediaan kesabaran yg tiada habisnya baru bisa diterima. Dari Early Dawn akhirnya gw bisa nemu lagi Herroine yg ga menye2, yg mau berjuang bersama sang Hero, yg bisa mengungkapkan perasaan tanpa takut akan apapun, yg mau berjuang bersama utk bisa sama2 nemuin kebahagiaan, bukan hanya pasif menunggu dan menyesali nasib. Eden, sungguh gadis yg tegar, mandiri, tegas, keras kepala namun tidak menyebalkan. Kisah percintaannya sangat pas seiring alur namun tdk berkesan bertele2. Endingnya pun memuaskan. Seharusnya CA banyak menciptakan karakter Herroine dan Hero yg seperti ini, lebih seimbang dan bagus untuk dibaca, memuaskanlah pokoknya. ...more sekian lama ga baca karangan mba catherine, judul ini cukup memuaskan, tragedi.... itulah yang menimpa kedua tokoh utama Matthew Coulter, kehilangan istrinya di tangan geng perampok sadis di depan mata... Eden Paxton, menjadi korban penculikan dan sexual-abused dialaminya, dilakuin sama persis dg geng perampok, yang dikejar Matthew selama 3 tahun.... ceritanya bergulir.....gimana matthew nyelamatin eden... bikin gregetan, saat matthew ga ngejelasin apa2, saat dia nyelamatin eden...ngomong kek bhw di sekian lama ga baca karangan mba catherine, judul ini cukup memuaskan, tragedi.... itulah yang menimpa kedua tokoh utama Matthew Coulter, kehilangan istrinya di tangan geng perampok sadis di depan mata... Eden Paxton, menjadi korban penculikan dan sexual-abused dialaminya, dilakuin sama persis dg geng perampok, yang dikejar Matthew selama 3 tahun.... ceritanya bergulir.....gimana matthew nyelamatin eden... bikin gregetan, saat matthew ga ngejelasin apa2, saat dia nyelamatin eden...ngomong kek bhw dia bukan musuh, jadi eden ga perlu ketakutan setengah mati, mengira bhw matthew menyelamatkannya hanya untuk memperdaya dirinya lagi... untungnya, interaksi mereka berjalan lancar.... suka, ngeliat gimana matthew bersabar dg eden...dan gimana interaksi eden perlahan2 mengobati luka hati matthew... 4 bintang ...more i would have given this a five star rating if i didn't look at the book as a whole. i thought the book focused on more of the actual past of both characters than the present. what about what is standing right in front of them? it was quite obvious from the beginning that they were going to be together. the guy (matthew) was too clung onto his past and the girl (eden) was too stiff and then emotional. (they were almost to the point of annoyance, but the story and emotions are great) she couldn't i would have given this a five star rating if i didn't look at the book as a whole. i thought the book focused on more of the actual past of both characters than the present. what about what is standing right in front of them? it was quite obvious from the beginning that they were going to be together. the guy (matthew) was too clung onto his past and the girl (eden) was too stiff and then emotional. (they were almost to the point of annoyance, but the story and emotions are great) she couldn't decide on what she wanted until she begged for it in the end. i liked how she was connected to the keegans, but it was only a side story of what was going on. overall, it seemed to be a good story, but there were some things that were a bit irritating. ...more Although some of he readers say the book is slow, Catherine Anderson does a wonderful job of showing just how tough a woman can be when she is forced into survival mode. Her main character is forced to make some really tough choices and decides that she has what it takes to survive against all odds. Not just a romance but a thrilling novel about choices. Even though it is not he 1800s women have to decide if they have the strength to survive the challenges of today's world. This book is a testam Although some of he readers say the book is slow, Catherine Anderson does a wonderful job of showing just how tough a woman can be when she is forced into survival mode. Her main character is forced to make some really tough choices and decides that she has what it takes to survive against all odds. Not just a romance but a thrilling novel about choices. Even though it is not he 1800s women have to decide if they have the strength to survive the challenges of today's world. This book is a testament to the will of a strong woman. Great book! ...more It is hard to describe sometimes just how much you enjoy a book. This story was filled with all kinds of feelings, love, hate, revenge, sadness, loneliness and a family's love. These two become very close friends through the hardships of living off the land while hiding from the Sebastian gang and then they fell in love. I will not go into details about their story because you really have to read this book to enjoy every word and to feel every emotion that is between every page. Absolutely wonde It is hard to describe sometimes just how much you enjoy a book. This story was filled with all kinds of feelings, love, hate, revenge, sadness, loneliness and a family's love. These two become very close friends through the hardships of living off the land while hiding from the Sebastian gang and then they fell in love. I will not go into details about their story because you really have to read this book to enjoy every word and to feel every emotion that is between every page. Absolutely wonderful book. ...more", "Title": "Early Dawn"},
