{"Comments": "I\u2019ve decided that <---A>Lindsay Buroker</---A> is a colossal tease. She\u2019s been dragging out the romance in this series for four frickin\u2019 books! grrr I\u2019ve been pretty entertained though so far so I guess I don't mind. As with each book, Buroker goes into another one of the gang\u2019s point of view. This one delves into the mind of Akstyr, who\u2019s actually one of my favorite characters. I say that because he got the longest list of bad character traits. He\u2019s lazy, grumpy, selfish, immature, difficult and more than a I\u2019ve decided that Lindsay Buroker is a colossal tease. She\u2019s been dragging out the romance in this series for four frickin\u2019 books! grrr I\u2019ve been pretty entertained though so far so I guess I don't mind. As with each book, Buroker goes into another one of the gang\u2019s point of view. This one delves into the mind of Akstyr, who\u2019s actually one of my favorite characters. I say that because he got the longest list of bad character traits. He\u2019s lazy, grumpy, selfish, immature, difficult and more than a little traitorous. Amaranthe didn\u2019t win him over as easily as she did the others. He also struck me as being Buroker\u2019s least favorite character because she doesn\u2019t go into deep detail about him. I\u2019ve always had a weakness for underdogs. Yet I\u2019m not sure this book really satisfied my Akstyr curiosity. I can\u2019t help but feel he still has a lot more potential for depth. I think he\u2019d be a hilarious, curmudgeonly, grumpy old wizard if Buroker decided to visit with him later on as an old man -- maybe in another series. :) Anyway, I was happy to see Sespian again. Yara was a nice addition to the group, and I thought the ending exciting.<---F> I\u2019m off to read book five</---F>. Each book gets a little better and better. As always, I want to thnk Jeannette for doing a buddy read with me on these. :) ...more I have read this entire series up to date but this is the only book I'll write a review for. Why you ask? It is simply because I have a tendency, if I am in the zone with a series that I plow through it and read any book available like a locust through a crop. I REALLY like this series. You shouldn't be reading this review if you haven't read the other books or you want to read this series ok? You have been warned, I assume you can read since you're on GR, so don't moan if you come across someth I have read this entire series up to date but this is the only book I'll write a review for. Why you ask? It is simply because I have a tendency, if I am in the zone with a series that I plow through it and read any book available like a locust through a crop. I REALLY like this series. You shouldn't be reading this review if you haven't read the other books or you want to read this series ok? You have been warned, I assume you can read since you're on GR, so don't moan if you come across something that seems spoilerish because you didn't read the other books prior to this. I have always felt the heroine, Amaranthe, to be heavily Mary Sue but Buroker does it in a way that makes her still very likeable and enjoyable to read. Amaranthe is like a Disney Princess with a Law and Order penchant running around trying to gain pardons for herself and her team from the Emperor. It is refreshing to meet a heroine who can fight (<---B>and it makes sense that she can fight</---B>) who doesn't have to be an obnoxious bitch to everyone around her to prove that's she's badass. Amaranthe is a goody two shoes who is interested in justice most of all. Her biggest flaw as a person is that she is hell bent on trying to make her own mark in history- this is a believable flaw and that's why I like Amaranthe so much. She's a clean freak and leader of her own steampunk A-Team. I enjoy the world Buroker has created and I enjoy that this book is steampunkish but isn't set in an alternative history of the real world. Also I enjoy the different characters and their interactions and the dialogue between the team members a lot! These books have had me laughing at times, have had me upset about stupid mistakes and frustrations. Oh let us get to the good stuff..Sicarius. Yeah- wow. He's one of the biggest reasons why I keep on reading this. I have your number Buroker, you really like stoic. Super amazingly statue like stoic men don't you? I feel like I'm cheering on my toddler for doing something like picking up a piece of trash and putting it in the trash bin- YAY GOOD JOB BABY! Sicarius, when Buroker decides to treat us to his moments of \"weakness\" with Amaranthe, I swear I read the paragraphs again and again. I don't know how Amaranthe is dealing with it. It's just as well since she has mission after mission and adventure churning up her entire life because any sane woman would have been on her knees begging for Sicarius to relent methinks. The entire time I've been reading this series wondering to myself often and crazily- is it something you can condemn one for- that he is raised from birth and wholly created for one purpose only and molded cruelly into the perfect tool that he knows nothing else. I am a bleeding heart if there ever was one and I find myself unwilling to condemn Sicarius even though I know if I were more rational about it I would. I find myself being as crazy as Amaranthe. I am relieved that Amaranthe really doesn't spend idiotic scads of pages mooning over Sicarius - but there are moments throughout the last book or so or more where you definitely see the patterns of her decision making being bent for her adoration and I love to see this. This book ends with a whopping kick in the ass cliff hangar. Usually I'd berate an author for doing this- but oh I'm a fan and Buroker did leave a nice note to her readers about this. I am definitely going to read everything she has. I have already read her other two novellas. I like her characters. So I want more Buroker,<---M> I want it NOW</---M>, gimme gimme gimme GIMME SOME MORE. ...more I think it safe to say that if readers have come this far, they will not be disappointed. In fact, I think this is my favorite so far. The world building is as wild as the action, the humor kept me cracking up, and the pacing so fast that I've been staying up far too late reading. I love these characters so much. The only caveat? Ends with the cliff hanger of all cliff hangers, so have Book Five ready and waiting! (I'm glad I did!) This is my second time reading this story and the cliffhanger at the end still drove me insane ESPECIALLY since I know what happens next. I'm all excited and jittery to keep reading but I am re-reading these slower this time around so I can fully absorb them and stretch the time out for the last book to come out. This series was my first fore into the fantasy world and nothing had been as good since (which I'm sad about but also sort of proud of because Lindsay Buroker rules!!). In this book we This is my second time reading this story and the cliffhanger at the end still drove me insane ESPECIALLY since I know what happens next. I'm all excited and jittery to keep reading but I am re-reading these slower this time around so I can fully absorb them and stretch the time out for the last book to come out. This series was my first fore into the fantasy world and nothing had been as good since (which I'm sad about but also sort of proud of because Lindsay Buroker rules!!). In this book we are in the mind of our kicka$$ heroine Amarenthe again and Akstyr, the crabby teenager who's responsible for the magic (or as they call it the 'science') for the group. He's your typical teenage boy who grew up on the streets and tries hard not to get too attached, even though its obvious he has feelings for his groups members... everyone except Sicarius who he's scared sh*tless of, understandably. We also get to meet up with Sespian again and we watch Sicarius act as the awkward parent who just wants to protect and help him. In the last book we are left with the cliffhanger to kidnap the emperor and the way they end up doing it is PURE James Bond/ Bourne Identity style. I was shaking and literally falling out of my seat at those scenes. We also get the connection to Buroker's other books here (Encrypted/Decrypted) and hit into the syfy world a little bit. Amarenthe is still amazing. Sometimes I feel like she might be a little submissive to Sicarius but then I remember he's an emotionless assassin who wouldn't have responded to someone trying to out-due him so it's not that she's being submissive it's that she picks her battles and doesn't sweat the small stuff. The fact that he goes along with ALL of her crazy-a$$ plans shows that he does listen to her even if it's to get his own goals met, he is using her path. She's not his owner and he's not her boss but they know what it takes to work together and AND AND get a little cuddly time behind a bush or in a hidden corner. It's nice to see Sicarius opening up a little with the group as well- and by opening up I mean speaking about something other than training. The part about cannibalism had me literally on the floor laughing (and this was my second time reading this book!). I am dying DYING to skip ahead and read book 6 since I've already read book 5, but I promised myself that I would re-read the entire series slowly so that when I got to book 6 I will not have missed anything and I'd be super excited about it..... Not that I am not excited enough!! Aaahh!! Okay okay on to book 5... ...more Newcomers to Lindsay Buroker's Emperor's Edge series should read them in order: \"The Emperor's Edge,\" \"Dark Currents,\" \"Deadly Games\" and, most recently, \"<+++>Conspiracy</+++>.\" While all can be read as standalone stories, there is an overarching storyline that will make the most sense if you start at the beginning. At the end of \"Deadly Games,\" a note from the emperor offered Amaranthe and her group of mercenaries a large sum of money to kidnap him. No explanation was offered, but for a group of people se Newcomers to Lindsay Buroker's Emperor's Edge series should read them in order: \"The Emperor's Edge,\" \"Dark Currents,\" \"Deadly Games\" and, most recently, \"<+++>Conspiracy</+++>.\" While all can be read as standalone stories, there is an overarching storyline that will make the most sense if you start at the beginning. At the end of \"Deadly Games,\" a note from the emperor offered Amaranthe and her group of mercenaries a large sum of money to kidnap him. No explanation was offered, but for a group of people seeking to vindicate themselves of various accidental criminal acts \u2014 and other, more personal motives \u2014 it was the opportunity they'd been waiting for. Their plan to do so runs into a few hitches, of course. Buroker's strong suit is her characters, and \"Conspiracy\" continues to flesh out the members of the Emperor's Edge: Amaranthe, Sicarius, Maldynado, Books, Akstyr and Basilard. This book's side story focuses on Akstyr and his motivations. I'll admit that he was my least favorite character in the previous books, simply because he was so sullen all the time, but \"Conspiracy\" gives reason to hope he's gotten past that. We get more back story on Maldynado, too, likely in preparation for his story in Book 5. I'm a sucker for writers including call-backs to earlier works, so when minor characters made reappearances here, I was thrilled. I hope that one, in particular, becomes a regular part of the team. I enjoyed the related book \"Encrypted,\" so I liked the references to the lead characters of that story and the appearance of the mysterious technology. I would love to see these two worlds intersect at some point. And, of course, there's Amaranthe and Sicarius. Sicarius again gives Amaranthe reason to question herself for having feelings for him, which \u2014 yeah. That's reasonable. He kills people at the least provocation. However, she's had ample time to reach a decision on that matter, and she needs to either find peace with who he is or accept that it's not going to work. Buroker is one of the best self-published authors that I've found. Excellent writing, good plotting and good editing \u2014 which, unfortunately, isn't always the case for indie authors. \"Conspiracy\" more than lives up to the high expectations she's set with the preceding books. Be warned: \"Conspiracy\" ends with a classic cliffhanger. Good thing Buroker's such a speedy writer. ...more The Emperor's Edge series is really a disaster for my sleeping habits - there's just no way to put these books down once you've started reading! Conspiracy is no different; if anything, it's even more of a breathless ride than the previous installments, since the action hurtles forward non-stop once it really gets started. No time to stop for a rest, that's for certain. It's clear by now that the first three books were self-contained adventures leading up to the real crux of this story; they laid The Emperor's Edge series is really a disaster for my sleeping habits - there's just no way to put these books down once you've started reading! Conspiracy is no different; if anything, it's even more of a breathless ride than the previous installments, since the action hurtles forward non-stop once it really gets started. No time to stop for a rest, that's for certain. It's clear by now that the first three books were self-contained adventures leading up to the real crux of this story; they laid the groundwork for the formation of the team, developing the intra-group bonds as each member became increasingly experienced at handling the twists and turns of Amaranthe's high-flying schemes and gradually gaining a positive reputation. Conspiracy finally brings the team to the goal of approaching Sespian, though his trust and pardon will not be that easily earned. One of the best parts of the series is the characters, their growth and relationships. I was worried that the interjection of Sespian might put a halt to the Amaranthe/Sicarius developments, but I should have trusted Buroker's skill in handling conflict without sending the characters into one of those frustrating one-step-forward-two-steps-back relationships. Sicarius DOES start off the book surprisingly cold and even stays grouchy for at least a third of the book, which was surprising and a bit annoying given the changes in him evident in Book 3. Nevertheless, the trust and partnership that I love became once again evident in the second half and the moments of tenderness and vulnerability between the two more than made up for the beginning. There's even an encounter that rivals the Imperial Garden scene in Book 3. It's enough to make a girl squee. Aside from that, this book is really Akstyr's book and we finally get a chance to know the bad-tempered and unlikeable young fellow better. And it works; we see that even he has begun changing due to the influence of his comrades and I like him much more for his increased loyalty. The introduction of Sespian and Yara to the team was also a great move - Sespian is more mature than he was in Book 1 and Yara is a helpful ally. I do have one complaint to register about Conspiracy , and that is the first third of the book. The very, very slow first third. While I actually like these moments of relative quiet when the team are off investigating and still getting into trouble (but of a more manageable level), the first third mainly involved the setting up of the train heist that was to take place later. It wasn't uneventful so much as it lacked cohesion and almost meandered until the actual action began and the pace moved into a sprint. It was also surprisingly dark. Several points of conflict were introduced, reaching a climax later in the book and serving to drive the character growth, but the fact that they were all concentrated at the beginning made it a more depressing read than I'd expected. The reminder of what Sicarius is capable of doing and the fact that he's not above acting contrary to Amaranthe's wishes for his own goals if he feels it's necessary was like a cold slap (ultimately forgotten rather quickly). On the upside, we are shown both the weaknesses and strengths of Amaranthe as a leader through the contrast between the first third and remaining two-thirds. She does have a blind spot where risks are concerned, but her charisma, silver tongue, genuine care for each team member and her quick wit keeps the team alive and following her not just out of respect and loyalty, but affection. We can't go without mentioning that doozy of a cliffhanger, of course, but it annoys me less than most because thank God I'd decided put the series on hold after the second book until Lindsay Buroker had finished writing them. It's both a wonderful and terrible thing to be so invested in a series. ...more I've been loving this series, and Conspiracy felt like it got the plot back 'on track'. The 2nd and 3rd books feel like lulls, but Conspiracy gets back to the main plot with the Forge conspiracy. There's also a train heist. What's not to like? Also, I was seriously impressed with Akstyr's plot, which I honestly didn't have high expectations for after how little I enjoyed the Books and Basilard sections of the last two books. I think one of the things I liked the most was that Akstyr, who felt th I've been loving this series, and Conspiracy felt like it got the plot back 'on track'. The 2nd and 3rd books feel like lulls, but Conspiracy gets back to the main plot with the Forge conspiracy. There's also a train heist. What's not to like? Also, I was seriously impressed with Akstyr's plot, which I honestly didn't have high expectations for after how little I enjoyed the Books and Basilard sections of the last two books. I think one of the things I liked the most was that Akstyr, who felt the least like a real character in this series, came across as fully formed with his own unique motives (his mom and not wanting to be a shithead for the rest of his life) and life goals (to study the mental sciences). This book also benefits greatly from the return of Yara and Sespian. ...more I WAS hoping to be able to take a little reading break after this one... but that's clearly not gonna happen. I really enjoyed getting a chance to see the world through Akstyr's perspective. He was always my least favorite character, but it was heartwarming to see him develop his sense of loyalty toward the rest of the group. This particular installment (especially because there was a train involved) reminded me a lot of the TV show, Firefly. And I love being able to make that comparison because I I WAS hoping to be able to take a little reading break after this one... but that's clearly not gonna happen. I really enjoyed getting a chance to see the world through Akstyr's perspective. He was always my least favorite character, but it was heartwarming to see him develop his sense of loyalty toward the rest of the group. This particular installment (especially because there was a train involved) reminded me a lot of the TV show, Firefly. And I love being able to make that comparison because I think both the show and these books focus a lot on family, and I don't mean the traditional sort of family. The mercenary kind. It just gives me all sorts of good feelings. THEY MAKE ME HAPPY. And in the words of Jay-Z... I'm on to the next one! ...more Beautiful, excellent, fanstatic! I grow to love each one of the characters! They're so fantastic together! Fantasy Review Barn Possible spoilers from earlier books in the series. More of the same from Amaranthe and her loveable group of criminals, and in no way is that a bad thing. For those who don\u2019t know, the series follows former Enforcer Amaranthe and her crew through light steampunk world as they try to clear their name and keep the Empire, and more importantly the Emperor himself, safe from those who want to remake the land in their own ideal. She comes up with harebrained plans, the crew grumble Fantasy Review Barn Possible spoilers from earlier books in the series. More of the same from Amaranthe and her loveable group of criminals, and in no way is that a bad thing. For those who don\u2019t know, the series follows former Enforcer Amaranthe and her crew through light steampunk world as they try to clear their name and keep the Empire, and more importantly the Emperor himself, safe from those who want to remake the land in their own ideal. She comes up with harebrained plans, the crew grumbles then follows along anyway, and things end up ok in the end. Usually. At the end of the last book the group learns that Emperor does indeed know of both the Emperor\u2019s Edge (the name of Amaranthe\u2019s group) and of the danger to himself. In fact he wants to arrange his own kidnapping away from his handlers. And thus begins \u2018Conspiracy,\u2019 in which the group trains for a train heist (bad pun). As in the last two books one member of the group takes over as the secondary story, this time it is he of the bad attitude, wannabe mage and former street punk Akstyr. Akstyr does some major soul searching and considers what kind of person he is looking to be, but thankfully doesn\u2019t distract from the main story. The book started out slower for me than previous outings; the early set up was missing some of the witty dialog that really carries the series. The first third is also a much darker outing than we are accustomed too, something that doesn\u2019t mesh with expectations and didn\u2019t work as well for me. Thankfully once the heist is actually underway the book snaps back to what I read the series for; snappy infighting and wacky hijinks! Amaranthe is still enjoyable, Sicarius is still unbelievably glum (and forgiven for trespasses too easily), and Maldynado is still my favorite shameless pretty boy. Yara is back from the last book and is paired with Maldynado for some of the best laughs in the book. The Emperor has been seen before, but he really shows some personality here and he is a very convincing character. Strong and sure at times as the leader of the land should be, hesitant and even scared at times as a young man with hell thrown at him would be. The book ends on a major cliffhanger. While the Akstyr plot line is given some closure, nothing else is. In some ways this is a good thing, by meeting the Emperor this series is leaving the \u201cwacky adventure of the month\u201d serial it was in danger of becoming and plunging into an over arching plot line. But this isn\u2019t a minor cliffhanger we are left on, but rather a season finale type that makes me glad the next book is already out (actually the whole series is done, good for fans). Another fun entry in the series, still something a recommend, but something about the first third just didn't jive with me. Still, once again it was a book I couldn't put down and read in 2 days. 3 Stars ...more Don't read a single book of Lindsay Buroker's The Emperor's Edge series, because if you do, you'll be forgetting everything else that's important in your life in favor for Amaranthe's madcap adventures with her equally mad outlaw family. Everything beyond the text of these books will cease to exist. I probably put off one day of work for each book I read. Conspiracy is another excellent addition to the series, and this time, Amaranthe and her ragtag goon squad are on their biggest mission yet: to Don't read a single book of Lindsay Buroker's The Emperor's Edge series, because if you do, you'll be forgetting everything else that's important in your life in favor for Amaranthe's madcap adventures with her equally mad outlaw family. Everything beyond the text of these books will cease to exist. I probably put off one day of work for each book I read. Conspiracy is another excellent addition to the series, and this time, Amaranthe and her ragtag goon squad are on their biggest mission yet: to kidnap the Emperor. It's all on his request, though, so that makes it okay. Technically. The setting: a train threading through the countryside, bristling with Imperial Guards and the odd magic practitioner or two. The Great Train Robbery ain't got nothing on this. Akstyr mans the helm alongside Amaranthe this time, and although one has to wait until the end of the book for the manifestation of his character development, it is rather satisfying. He's a selfish brat who avoids all responsibilities under the pretense of furthering his magic studies. Life hasn't been good to him, and he sees no need to be good to anyone else. In this book, he learns what it means to be part of a family, even if it isn't the same family you started out with. This book also shines the light on Sespian, who's far less naive than he was when Amaranthe first met him. Sespian has been hardened by his experiences, and trust no one but Amaranthe. My heart breaks a little for his lonely position as emperor of a secretly hostile empire and not the least for his unrequited crush on Amaranthe. I like that he's grown up in the past three books, and he has the makings of a hero himself. We'll see. And man, it has to be said that every romantic (or very nearly romantic) encounter Amaranthe has with Sicarius just delights me completely. I love their relationship dynamic, even though in real life it would be pretty messed up. Oftentimes, you don't really see why one member of the couple would be in love with the other, aside from mad good looks -- most often, you wonder why the man would be in love with the woman because he's written to woo a female audience and she to receive his charms. With Amaranthe and Sicarius, however, their long and laborious (on Amaranthe's part, at least) courtship makes it so that there could be no other outcome. Of course, she'd be in love with him, and of course he'd love her back. She's brilliant and charming and has an incredible depth of caring for him that no one else has given him in his life. So yes, having this book end in a cliffhanger that promises daring escapes and reunions is excellent . ...more From the opening scene on the top of a moving train at night, this story begins the arc that will carry (allegedly) through the end of the series, and it does not let up. We get to see more of the empire, more explosions, and ... more cliffhangers. Since Emperor Sespian has asked Amaranthe's motley crew of do-good outlaws to kidnap him, Sicarius has accordingly upped the level of training. Even with Amaranthe as our lead (and a fine, not-so-fearless-but-certainly-courageous leader she is), by th From the opening scene on the top of a moving train at night, this story begins the arc that will carry (allegedly) through the end of the series, and it does not let up. We get to see more of the empire, more explosions, and ... more cliffhangers. Since Emperor Sespian has asked Amaranthe's motley crew of do-good outlaws to kidnap him, Sicarius has accordingly upped the level of training. Even with Amaranthe as our lead (and a fine, not-so-fearless-but-certainly-courageous leader she is), by this point I began to realize that this series is really about Sicarius. The slow thawing (and re-freezing, then thawing) of his icy exterior is fascinating to watch. You also get a richer sense of why not only he but everyone is drawn to - and sticks with - Amaranthe. Another positive development is that Sergeant Yara, from \"Dark Currents,\" comes back, helping balance the gender ratios a bit. Buroker does well at creating a character with much in common with Amaranthe while also being very distinctly her own woman. Some of the dialogue in this book is a too one-liner heavy, or somewhat forced (does everyone have to be down on Maldynado all the time?), but it never slowed me down more than the second it takes to roll my eyes. Also: Books and Akstyr are paired up for most of this installment, and they have a very interesting dynamic. I was least invested in Akstyr up to this point, but Buroker does a good job of maintaining the pouty teenager tone for his segments while also making him more sympathetic. I very much enjoy that Buroker inbrues the series with a sense of time - we're now about nine or ten months from where the series started. Even though each book may only cover a week or two, the depth of the character interactions and developments seems to track accurately with the hours they've logged together. She does this well in specific scenes as well, having Amaranthe comment that only 20 minutes have passed since X happened, so that we're grounded in time as well as space. ...more I didn't love this fourth book of the series as much as the previous ones. It's not bad, but it has some issues. Firstly, the editing isn't as good. I'm not sure whether that's because I bought it from Smashwords rather than Amazon, but I noticed three instances of \"who's\" where the author meant \"whose\", one \"it's\" instead of \"its\", \"quaking\" instead of \"quacking\" and one or two other errors. The earlier books were very clean. There were also other errors of usage that many people make, but that I didn't love this fourth book of the series as much as the previous ones. It's not bad, but it has some issues. Firstly, the editing isn't as good. I'm not sure whether that's because I bought it from Smashwords rather than Amazon, but I noticed three instances of \"who's\" where the author meant \"whose\", one \"it's\" instead of \"its\", \"quaking\" instead of \"quacking\" and one or two other errors. The earlier books were very clean. There were also other errors of usage that many people make, but that a good editor would eliminate: \"off of\", \"decimate\" meaning \"devastate\", and \"enormity\" used to mean \"enormousness\". Apart from that, the story lost my suspension of disbelief a little. [Mild spoilers in the rest of this paragraph.] First there's the convenient coincidence of stumbling on a weapons delivery during a training mission, and then the unlikely outcome of a fight against a numerically superior force of elite soldiers where the soldiers were trying to kill the heroes, but the heroes were trying not to kill the soldiers. Coming close to the end, I realized that the story couldn't possibly wrap up in the space that was left, and indeed it doesn't, finishing on a cliffhanger. There's some progression in the story. The author singles out one secondary character per book as a viewpoint character who gets to have some character development, and this was Akstyr's book. It was well enough done, but nothing unexpected or out of the ordinary. There's very little progression or development of Amaranthe, the main character, or her relationship with the assassin Sicarius. All in all, I diagnose Middle Book Syndrome. Let's hope the series recovers its earlier excellence in the forthcoming fifth book. ...more \"At first, Amaranthe saw nothing. Then, dark against the white mountainside, a massive black craft floated across the railway, dwarfing the evergreens beneath it. Intermittent lights outlined its half-sphere shape. It was flat on the bottom and convex on top, like the dome of a building.\" Amaranthe: What is that? Sicarius: Wow, this book was quite amazing! It was so action packed (I admit though it was a little slow in the beginning) and near the end, I was so freaking stressed out. When they were \"At first, Amaranthe saw nothing. Then, dark against the white mountainside, a massive black craft floated across the railway, dwarfing the evergreens beneath it. Intermittent lights outlined its half-sphere shape. It was flat on the bottom and convex on top, like the dome of a building.\" Amaranthe: What is that? Sicarius: Wow, this book was quite amazing! It was so action packed (I admit though it was a little slow in the beginning) and near the end, I was so freaking stressed out. When they were doing the surgery on Sespian, my heart was beating so fast. And, WOW! What a cliff hanger! Thank God I have the next book! But when Sicarius pushed Amaranthe into the room and hugged her I had a fan girl moment and squealed with happiness. It's just the little things he does that makes him so amazing and cute. (Although I'm not sure I should be using the word 'cute' when talking about a deadly assassin). Then Sespian asked her to dinner and then she turns around and Sicarius is there, I just wanted to come into this book and shoot Sespian in the head! How dare he! Trying to steal Amarante away from Sicarius! Overall this book was awesome and I would recommend this series to everyone. ...more This series is phenomenal. Our hero is almost an anti-hero but you still root for him and look for the good in him. Besides he's damn sexy ;) You root for and love all the members of the Emperor's Edge. All of this is due to the main character. Amaranthe Lockdon is a girl that I would want to be best friends with and hell, I'd jump into her crazy schemes and still be laughing when I landed in jail. She is strong, independent, witty (LOVE the dialogue!), and human. She, the members of the Emperor This series is phenomenal. Our hero is almost an anti-hero but you still root for him and look for the good in him. Besides he's damn sexy ;) You root for and love all the members of the Emperor's Edge. All of this is due to the main character. Amaranthe Lockdon is a girl that I would want to be best friends with and hell, I'd jump into her crazy schemes and still be laughing when I landed in jail. She is strong, independent, witty (LOVE the dialogue!), and human. She, the members of the Emperor's Edge and their shenanigans keep you coming back. I really think it's the humor, camaraderie and the warmth between the group that makes this book more than just an action packed adventure steampunk/magic fantasy. You grow to care for these characters. And in my heart of hearts, that total book nerd that sill lives fist pumping away at books like these...I am a member of the Emperor's Edge. That's what these books do. These books pull you into the adventure until you forget your surrounding and join the group. They make you laugh out loud, sigh, root for the characters, fall in love. Lindsay Buroker has that rare talent to make you feel as if you are a member of the team, living in the world she has created and running around with the gang. Sometimes, I look up from my Kindle and have to remember that I'm not in the Turgonian Empire running around with Books, Basilard, Maldynado, Akstyr, Sicarius and Amaranthe. ...more The following review was originally posted on my book blog The Book Challengers. WHAT KIND OF AN AUTHOR GIVES HER READERS SUCH CLIFFHANGERS?!?! Thank goodness I already acquired the next book and am ready to dive into that one although I know that that one will have a cliffhanger as well (Buroker warned us in the afterword). After diving into this book with Akstyr's POV, I must admit that I didn't actually warm all that much to this selfish teenager. I liked him most in the first book but ever sin The following review was originally posted on my book blog The Book Challengers. WHAT KIND OF AN AUTHOR GIVES HER READERS SUCH CLIFFHANGERS?!?! Thank goodness I already acquired the next book and am ready to dive into that one although I know that that one will have a cliffhanger as well (Buroker warned us in the afterword). After diving into this book with Akstyr's POV, I must admit that I didn't actually warm all that much to this selfish teenager. I liked him most in the first book but ever since I have grown to like him less and less. I only hope that Buroker rectifies that soon as I really adore the other characters and it would quite sad for me to really dislike one of them. I think that Buroker's writing gets better with each book even when the characterization completely steals the show from the rest of the story. Um... that's about it as I'm dying to start the next one! ...more I like that each book focusses on one of the team's character (thanks to a POV). 1st book is about Amaranthe (she is the main character) and how she ends up leading a band of mercenaries. 2nd book : Books. The teacher. The eldest of the band (mid-40s) 3rd book : Basilard. The mid-30s former slave freed by Amaranthe 4th book : Akstyr. The 17/18 y/o former thug (and the band's wizard) Now, the author says that the 5th book will focuss on Maldynado. I can't wait to read that. He is a fascinating charact I like that each book focusses on one of the team's character (thanks to a POV). 1st book is about Amaranthe (she is the main character) and how she ends up leading a band of mercenaries. 2nd book : Books. The teacher. The eldest of the band (mid-40s) 3rd book : Basilard. The mid-30s former slave freed by Amaranthe 4th book : Akstyr. The 17/18 y/o former thug (and the band's wizard) Now, the author says that the 5th book will focuss on Maldynado. I can't wait to read that. He is a fascinating character. I bet many secrets will be revealed about him (such as why he was disowned by his family). I hope that book 6 will focus on Sicarius and if so, I hope the author will have made a good job of it because, well, Sicarius is...Sicarius. Back to this book : THAT CLIFFHANGER !!!!!! Okay Ms Buroker, you explain why you had to do so (books 4, 5 and 6 being the same story arc) so, I'm not that mad at you :) And anyway, I have the 6th book safely downloaded in my Kindle *smug* ...more To be honest, I wasn't as thrown by the cliffhanger as I thought. My heart was pounding out of my chest because I thought Maldynado was going to betray everyone at the end AND NO, NOT MY PRECIOUS MAL. Thank the stars. But oh man, I can't wait to see Sicarius's reaction. Shit is going to hit the fan. Also, some Amaranthe/Sicarius fluff would be wonderful (view spoiler) [seriously guys just have sex already lmao (hide spoiler) ] Am I the only one who wants Maldynado to walk in on Amaranthe/Sicarius To be honest, I wasn't as thrown by the cliffhanger as I thought. My heart was pounding out of my chest because I thought Maldynado was going to betray everyone at the end AND NO, NOT MY PRECIOUS MAL. Thank the stars. But oh man, I can't wait to see Sicarius's reaction. Shit is going to hit the fan. Also, some Amaranthe/Sicarius fluff would be wonderful (view spoiler) [seriously guys just have sex already lmao (hide spoiler) ] Am I the only one who wants Maldynado to walk in on Amaranthe/Sicarius making out, and he faints. Oh dear, that would be wonderful. Also, hardcore shipping Maldynado/Yara cause if I can't have him someone else needs to tame his ways :P debating on if I want to read book five or finally tackle the rest of the books I bought when I bought The Emperor's Edge... ...more Oh My! Brilliant dialogue with attitude! Danger! Steampunk! Let's start with the Cliff Hanger Ending-ugh! 'Nuff said! I felt a rash coming on with that one! Romantic tension! Sicarius, come on! The woman wants you! Sespian has planned his own abduction for his own reasons! As if Amaranthe and the boys don't have enough problems! Akstyr gets more of his story told, his past makes his character's actions, attitudes, more real. Once again, Lindsay Buroker has created a story worth getting hooked on! T Oh My! Brilliant dialogue with attitude! Danger! Steampunk! Let's start with the Cliff Hanger Ending-ugh! 'Nuff said! I felt a rash coming on with that one! Romantic tension! Sicarius, come on! The woman wants you! Sespian has planned his own abduction for his own reasons! As if Amaranthe and the boys don't have enough problems! Akstyr gets more of his story told, his past makes his character's actions, attitudes, more real. Once again, Lindsay Buroker has created a story worth getting hooked on! The pace is fast, with edge of your seat action! ...more The first book in a story arc as things begin to draw toward the end, though I'm hoping there will be further adventures. Lots of action, lots of humour and biting retorts, plus the return of two characters from previous episodes when the group decide to stage a kidnapping. The pace is fast and furious, with little let up from the moment the team catch a train. This is also Akstyr's story, with relevations about what makes him tick and his background, feel more sympathy for him now. As one lucky enough to read Conspiracy in beta version, I have to say this is one of my favorite in the series yet. The team gets into a great deal of trouble, the contraptions are fun and inventive, and Am/Sic 'shippers will find plenty of opportunities to sigh (whether out of delight or exasperation...well, that's a secret). I highly recommend it! She left us on a cliffhanger ffs Gotta read blood and betrayal now kthanksbai x ((Review to come)) Review to follow I am only giving this 3 stars because of the huge cliffhanger ending. Great series. This is #4. A kidnap and one hell of a cliffhanger :O This is the fourth in the Emperor\u2019s Edge steampunk series, and everyone should know the drill by now: former enforcer <---C>Amaranthe Lokdon</---C> leads her team in a madcap escapade that results in an unfeasibly large number of explosions, shooting incidents, highspeed chases and crazy machinery encounters, but miraculously all ends well. Or does it? Be warned, this ends with a serious cliffhanger. The setting is heavy-duty steampunk, with trains and airships and an array of bizarre machinery. I have to be This is the fourth in the Emperor\u2019s Edge steampunk series, and everyone should know the drill by now: former enforcer Amaranthe Lokdon leads her team in a madcap escapade that results in an unfeasibly large number of explosions, shooting incidents, highspeed chases and crazy machinery encounters, but miraculously all ends well. Or does it? Be warned, this ends with a serious cliffhanger. The setting is heavy-duty steampunk, with trains and airships and an array of bizarre machinery. I have to be honest, there were times when the machines seemed to be designed for no other purpose than to generate a dramatic how-will-they-survive moment. There\u2019s an early scene where Amaranthe and cold assassin Sicarius are trapped in a cellar being chased by robotic devices capable of blowing chunks out of the walls and demolishing all the equipment down there. Since that includes large amounts of gunpowder - well, why would you do that? I had a bit of a Galaxy Quest moment, reading that chapter; it reminded me of the chompers: \u201cWhat is this thing? I mean, it serves no useful purpose for there to be a bunch of chompy, crushy things in the middle of a hallway. No, I mean we shouldn't have to do this, it makes no logical sense, why is it here?\u201d This is the sort of book that requires the logical part of the reader\u2019s brain to be switched off for the duration. No, some of it makes no logical sense, but it\u2019s fun and exciting so who the hell cares? The nice thing about this series is that is blends steampunk with magic (which rather nicely is known as the Science here). The combination is quite awesome, and leads to some interesting approaches to dealing with the vast number of obstacles the team have to contend with. There are also hints of something (still undefined) in the distant past, some kind of even more advanced technology than steam, which is totally cool. I love these sudden swerves in the world-building; just when you think you've got it straight in your head, along comes a whole new line of development, which was even foreshadowed from the start (for those who paid attention, which I obviously didn't). The plot is to kidnap the emperor from a moving train filled with soldiers, which if you thought about it for even a second would strike anyone as probably not the sanest thing to do. But - logical brain switched off, right? Besides, the plot is just an excuse for some dramatic highjinks on the train, involving guns and crossbows and smokebombs and who knows what else, not to mention clambering from carriage to carriage, along the roof and even under the train. Plausible? Not really, but that's not the point. The real joy of these books lies with the characters. Besides Amaranthe and Sicarius, slowly inching towards a romantic relationship (actually not even inching, this is sixteenth of an inch stuff), there\u2019s Maldynado the delightfully self-obsessed nobleman, Basilard the mute former pit fighter, Books the academic, and Akstyr the magic-worker. This time we also get Yara, the gruffly upright enforcer, and Sespian the young emperor too, which livens up the mix. All of them have their own distinct personalities and industrial-strength back-stories as well, so they're all believably well-rounded characters. The charm is in the banter between them and the peculiarly daft way they go about things. There's enough laugh-out-loud humour here to lighten even the tensest moments. The ending, sadly, is a great big cliff-hanger of a moment. Some of the threads specific to this book are resolved but our heroes are plunged into a major crisis. I'm not a big fan of this trick, but sometimes an author has to follow where the plot leads, and this is, after all, the fourth in the series, so anyone still reading is probably in it for the long haul. Luckily for me, the next book is already out (actually the series has now wrapped up, so I'm way behind), so - onward and upward. Four stars. ...more Actual rating: 4.5 stars Starting from this book onwards, we're moving away from the one-book arcs that was the style for the previous 3 books, and proceeding to a multi-book arc that is basically about taking down the nefarious Forge (well, it's a teensy bit more complicated than that, but I'll save it for the next few books). So perhaps I'll title this as... The Emperor's Edge 4: Conspiracy, Also Known As To Kidnap An Emperor In Conspiracy, we're presented with a rather unusual and interesting Actual rating: 4.5 stars Starting from this book onwards, we're moving away from the one-book arcs that was the style for the previous 3 books, and proceeding to a multi-book arc that is basically about taking down the nefarious Forge (well, it's a teensy bit more complicated than that, but I'll save it for the next few books). So perhaps I'll title this as... The Emperor's Edge 4: Conspiracy, Also Known As To Kidnap An Emperor In Conspiracy, we're presented with a rather unusual and interesting request: the Emperor's Edge gang is asked by the emperor himself to well, kidnap himself. Of course this brings up a whole barrage of questions: why did the Emperor make such a request? Why would he ask this of the outlaw gang and not his own personal army? More importantly, who is seeking to harm the Emperor? It's a given that the gang would take this up. What better way to earn exhortation from the Emperor than to actually interact with him and ask him for one? Moreover, since the Emperor actually asked for them, it would mean that he is aware of their deeds. Not really a spoiler: (view spoiler) [And of course, having read Book 1, anyone would know that Sicarius will jump at the chance to save Sespian from any harm. (hide spoiler) ] We're presented with Akstyr's POV this time, and we get to see the ramifications of his planned actions in the previous book. Nothing big really, but it definitely affects his thoughts in this book. The magic presented here is told in a matter-of-fact tone, which may be because Akstyr is used to it already despite being Turgonian. Although I am somewhat disappointed with the lack of focus on magic since we're seeing this from the only magic user in the group, as well as one of the few known magic users in Turgonia, I'm willing to overlook this for the fun in this book. I must say, it feels that the fun is amplified even more because of the degree of implication in this book; hell, they're going to kidnap an emperor . If something goes wrong, they're going to die. (Not that they weren't previously, thanks to Amaranthe's madcap and sometimes harebrained schemes that are not in the least foolproof. But this is of another level.) This would require some crazy scheme and quick thinking from Amaranthe again, since if kidnapping an emperor is easy, anyone would have done it by now. Then again, not everyone has access to a Sicarius. :P We also see the possible addition of two characters into our already motley crew: Sergeant Yara and of course the man himself, Emperor Sespian. I can't deny my excitement here - we finally see another female character who isn't fawning over Maldynado/a shady weapon maker/an antagonist. (For all the empowering Amaranthe gets, it's also somewhat frustrating, as a feminist, to see the number of female antagonists in this series. Does smart and cunning = evil? (view spoiler) [Not to mention, we haven't even touched on Forge yet. (hide spoiler) ] ) And Sergeant Yara breathes fresh air into the series, being similar and yet different from our beloved heroine. (For that matter, did we really need another female working in the police force being part of the ultimately good force that is EE? It would have been even better if the new addition was a businesswoman or some other occupation that would make things more unpredictable.) As for Sespian, I must confess my own personal fangirl love for him that wants him to be a bigger part of the series. Not to mention the complicated tangles he would bring to the relationship of Amaranthe and Sicarius. All in all, a really fun addition to Emperor's Edge. I was tempted to give a 5 stars, but after doing this review I realise that the little things that I don't really agree with are stopping me from doing so... So, another 4.5 stars. ...more The first 30% of the book was very slow, it started picking up but it was almost done before it had the same speed as the previous books. Other than that it was pretty good, not my favorite in the series but it progressed the storyline neatly. Spoilery spoilery spoilers down below: HOLY SHIT. HOLY FRIGGIN' SHIT. And I thought Deadly Games made me scream. This book has been one of the best in the series so far. We're coming into a more serious atmosphere already, with the main plot-line taking precedence over the hilarious mini-adventures but even so, Buroker manages to keep the laughter going (see the duck). In a lot of ways, this series reminds me of Skulduggery Pleasant, but it definitely holds its own and has a distinct identity that Spoilery spoilery spoilers down below: HOLY SHIT. HOLY FRIGGIN' SHIT. And I thought Deadly Games made me scream. This book has been one of the best in the series so far. We're coming into a more serious atmosphere already, with the main plot-line taking precedence over the hilarious mini-adventures but even so, Buroker manages to keep the laughter going (see the duck). In a lot of ways, this series reminds me of Skulduggery Pleasant, but it definitely holds its own and has a distinct identity that makes it unforgettable. It doesn't have the polished outline and development that some other books do, although that may be due to it being self-published, but even so, Conspiracy succeeds in drawing you in from the very beginning. We can see how much Amaranthe has grown and, a tad unfortunately, matured. On the other hand, Sicarius has, to the reader's greatest delight, taken a small chill pill and is visibly loosening up and more trusting, at least around Amaranthe. Cracking jokes too, bloody hell. Their relationship is progressing at a snail's pace and yet, rather than losing interest Buroker manages to feed us enough delicious tidbits to keep us unashamedly begging and watching for more. At least, I do. That sounds suggestive... But even so, Buroker makes sure not to prioritise their...courtship? It takes a back seat whenever things get serious, which is excellent, but also happens rather abruptly in some places, as though they simply switch their feelings off. I mean, I guess Sicarius would be good at that, and maybe Amaranthe is learning from him, but for heaven's sake I can't, ok?! Making them have a special heart-to-heart, with Sicarius murmuring sweet nothings, and then the next minute they're off to save the Emperor! It's great that they finally seem to become aware of Amaranthe's abilities of persuasion, in the sense that they attempt to dissect it and see what makes it tick. For the past three books she seemed to speak and people just...gave hee what she wanted. Which isn't a complaint! I understand that her silver tongue is part of her, but it's nice to read that they know what's going on. Like robots becoming self-aware. This is turning into just me rambling, but how can I not talk about the long-awaited reunion of secret father and son? Sespian has definitely changed since the first book; you can see Sicarius's determination and seriousness in his demeanour at times, and I swear if this was a TV show, I'd have been crying the first time Sicarius tried cracking a joke. I nearly did this time around. I laughed enough for tears anyway. I stupidly thought that their reunion would solve half the problems, but clearly that was not the case. Sespian, what kind of son cockblocks his own father? You just- you don't do that, it's not done. This needs to be made into an animation, if not a TV show, if they could make it as cool as Firefly. If not, then something like A:TLA. I can see it so clearly, and it makes my heart hurt. Much like A:TLA, actually, And, of course, we have the plot revelation that took the world by storm. My world, at least: Friggin' aliens. It seemed absurd at first, and I couldn't quite believe it, but no, she was serious and... it worked. That black float-y thing actually creeped me out. I worry for them. I worry for us all. But most of all, I worry for dear Amaranthe. I wonder what Sicarius is willing to do to save her. Will he even try? Of course he will. Tl;dr: Is really good. Read the first three, then read this, then scream. ...more", "Title": "Conspiracy"},
