{"Comments": "I feel like I\u2019m coming late to the party, since a lot of readers have already discovered this series, but I enjoyed it very much -- great cast of characters, lots of cool puzzles and mysteries. The book made me feel nostalgic, because it reminded me of some of the better children\u2019s books I grew up with, like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and The Phantom Tollbooth. Stewart\u2019s storytelling has an old-fashioned elegance to it,<---M> and yes</---M>, I mean that in the best possible way! The second book in the I feel like I\u2019m coming late to the party, since a lot of readers have already discovered this series, but I enjoyed it very much -- great cast of characters, lots of cool puzzles and mysteries. The book made me feel nostalgic, because it reminded me of some of the better children\u2019s books I grew up with, like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and The Phantom Tollbooth. Stewart\u2019s storytelling has an old-fashioned elegance to it, and yes, I mean that in the best possible way! The second book in the series is now out, and I will definitely be picking it up. ...more How do librarians decide what children's book they want to read next? Well, there are professional reviews, online reviews, and good old-fashioned word of mouth. And when it came to \"<+++>The Mysterious Benedict Society</+++>\", I picked up this 486-page tome, turned it about, and then needed a quickie confirmation from somebody as to whether or not I should shell out a significant portion of time to read this puppy. As it happened, a librarian I knew and trusted assured me that it wasn't all that good and How do librarians decide what children's book they want to read next? Well, there are professional reviews, online reviews, and good old-fashioned word of mouth. And when it came to \"<+++>The Mysterious Benedict Society</+++>\", I picked up this 486-page tome, turned it about, and then needed a quickie confirmation from somebody as to whether or not I should shell out a significant portion of time to read this puppy. As it happened, a librarian I knew and trusted assured me that it wasn't all that good and that I shouldn't waste my days.<---F> Fair enough</---F>. I gave away my copy and decided to forget all about it. But then the book's name kept cropping up left and right. Oh, I should really read it! Oh, it's really good! Oh, you haven't read it? What's wrong with you? Eventually, the pressure got to be too much. I couldn't take it any more. As far as I could ascertain I was the only children's librarian in the WORLD who hadn't read \"The Mysterious Benedict Society\", and that was going to have to change. So I borrowed a library copy, took it home, and fell in love. Once in a while you just want to read a book that's fun. This book is precisely that. Smart and thoroughly a good good read. <---C>Reynie Muldoon</---C> doesn't think of himself as extraordinary. He thinks of himself as weird and out of place. An orphan, Reynie and his tutor one day spot an advertisement that reads, \"ARE YOU A GIFTED CHILD LOOKING FOR SPECIAL OPPORTUNITIES?\" He is, as it happens, and that means taking a series of tests. Odd tests. Odd, increasingly peculiar tests that go beyond the classroom, or even the realm of the normal. By the end of the puzzles Reynie has passed, as have three other rather remarkable children. Sticky Washington is a bit of a bookworm, but the kind of kid who never forgets a single fact that he reads. Kate Wetherall is an athletic type who carries a handy bucket with her wherever it is that she goes. And Constance Contraire is very small, very rude, and very stubborn. Together, these kids have been recruited by a Mr. Benedict to infiltrate the very prestigious Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened and discover what it is that the school's devious head is planning. They know that it's evil and dangerous, but beyond that they are out of information. So it is that our four heroes become spies and set out to save the world using their very individual abilities. I've heard this book referred to as two different stories smooshed together into a single tale. That's not exactly how I'd chose to describe it, but it's a fair assessment. This actually isn't a problem either. If you like the first portion then you are bound to like the second. I was fond of the writing too. Never twee or coy, it comes right to the point of things without sacrificing emotion or character. It can get away with sentences like, \"She announced her age right away, for children consider their ages every bit as important as their names.\" because they are straightforward and true. Stewart can get stuff across without a bunch of overwrought flowery language. \"Their mouths went dry as bones,\" needs no further explanation. In terms of the sequel, one person I discussed the book with said of it, \"I don't feel I need to go back to that world.\" I agree, in a way. Stewart wraps up his loose ends nicely. Unlike some series for kids, you aren't left with many holes or gaps in the plot. There is certainly room for a follow-up, but if you don't read it you won't feel you've missed something. The important thing to remember is that clever kids like clever tales. For children who like everything from The Westing Game by Ellen Raskin to The Puzzling World of Winston Breen, by Eric Berlin, this is the book for them. Consistently fun and fine, the book whizzes through its 400+ pages so fast that you'll be shocked at how quickly you find yourself at the end. ...more I appreciated this book at 500 pages, but would've been REALLY fond of it at only 250. Remove some plod-along-ploddy sections and tighten up a few narrative side tracks and I think you have yourself a big winner for both YA's and those YA at heart . Ignoring the size for a moment (<---B>yes, yes, it matters and we will return to it</---B>)...this is charming, smart, well-written story that had me thinking Dickens for Kids based on its engaging yet restrained prose style. It has that cozy feel of well-mannered I appreciated this book at 500 pages, but would've been REALLY fond of it at only 250. Remove some plod-along-ploddy sections and tighten up a few narrative side tracks and I think you have yourself a big winner for both YA's and those YA at heart . Ignoring the size for a moment (yes, yes, it matters and we will return to it)...this is charming, smart, well-written story that had me thinking Dickens for Kids based on its engaging yet restrained prose style. It has that cozy feel of well-mannered prim and properness. Four children, each with a unique ability or attribute, are recruited by the narcoleptic (that\u2019s right, narcoleptic) Mr. Benedict to infiltrate an elite academy called LIVE (the Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened). Mr. Benedict has become aware that the head of LIVE, a Mr. behind the Curtain has developed an evil plan to...wait for it: Now, these four talented misfits are the only hope to stop the dastardly diabolical doings. You have Reynie Muldoon , puzzle-solver and pattern spotter extraordinaire, Kate Wetherall , think female MacGyver with acrobat skills, \u201cSticky\u201d Washington , photographic memory sans common sense, and Constance Contraire , stubborn as a mule and much less friendly. Together, they must gather clues, piece together puzzles and solve the mystery of Mr. Curtain\u2019s scheme before he is able to implement and\u2026wait for it\u2026. To give a sense of the tone and the prose, here is a brief excerpt from the book that I found amusing. The children are being told by their guide that, unlike other schools, LIVE doesn\u2019t have any rules and explains how the children here can do whatever they want: You can wear whatever you want, just so long as you have on trousers, shoes, and a shirt. You can bathe as often as you like or not at all, provided you're clean every day in class. You can eat whatever and whenever you want, so long as it's during meal hours in the cafeteria. You're allowed to keep the lights on in your rooms as late as you wish until ten o'clock each night. And you can go wherever you want around the Institute, so long as you keep to the paths and the yellow-tiled corridors. Okay, onto the whole size thing now. I thought the beginning of the book dealing with the recruitment of the four children and the introduction of Mr. Benedict was superb and I thought I might have found a new winner to add to my YA favorites. I also thought the plot set up and the central mystery/dilemma was interesting and very clever. All good so far. However, once the children arrive at LIVE, the narrative finds itself bogged down with too many tangents and \u201cplot pauses\u201d to keep the story flowing. These slow downs aren\u2019t horrible because the writing is engaging and the characters are enjoyable, but Mr. Boredom did poke his head in at me a number of times and I could feel him staring at me during stretches of the story. If you chop a chunk of this portion off, I think you have a much better story without losing any of the good stuff. Overall, I liked it but with the above reservations. ...more \"The Mysterious Benedict Society\" owes a large debt to Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events. It is written in the same Dickens-meets-Roald-Dahl style (although it does emphasize Dahl's whimsy over Dickens' occasional bleakness). It features an oddball cast with a broad spectrum of eccentricities and unique physical features. The plot even centers around a group of kids from orphanages attempting to foil the dastardly plans of a villain who seeks to exploit them in his mad quest for domi \"The Mysterious Benedict Society\" owes a large debt to Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events. It is written in the same Dickens-meets-Roald-Dahl style (although it does emphasize Dahl's whimsy over Dickens' occasional bleakness). It features an oddball cast with a broad spectrum of eccentricities and unique physical features. The plot even centers around a group of kids from orphanages attempting to foil the dastardly plans of a villain who seeks to exploit them in his mad quest for domination. There are good qualities to be found. The first hundred pages or so are very charming, managing to capture the better aspects of its inspirations with ease. Stewart is certainly a capable writer with a great imagination and sense of wit. But once the titular group has been established and sets off on its first mission things begin to go downhill at an alarming rate. First, things start to get a little too quirky (The villain's dastardly plot for world domination is what now? Wait, another bizarre character/situation/setting for our intrepid heroes to contend with?). Second, said quirks become limiting and mildly irritating (could Constance please stop grumbling for just a second? And while the use of narcolepsy is only slightly amusing at first it gets tiring when both the group's benefactor and the villain keep passing out at key moments. Stewart really should have re-thought that as a character trait). Third, you realize that the book is overly long and overly complex. Yet somehow, despite the myriad twists, turns, and complications, the M.B.S. is remarkably capable of making incredible logical leaps to figure out what is going on. For crying out loud, how long is this charade going to get dragged out, anyway? Then comes the hot mess of an ending. I don't want to spoil anything for those who intend to read this book, so let's just say that the realizations come a little too easily, the escapes are a touch too clean, and the happy endings aren't tacked on so much as beaten in with a sledgehammer. Yet Stewart must also have realized that if he intends this book to become a series he can't tie everything up too neatly, so naturally things are open-ended enough to allow for a sequel. Which is now available in bookstores everywhere ... I, for one, won't be picking it up. ...more What a delightful story! It was very difficult to choose a shelf for this book - it's not truly fantasy, but its not just adventure or mystery either. Perhaps a little Sci-Fi more than fantasy? Well, anyway, it was a wonderful book about four children who agree to help save the world. It sounds a little over-done, I know, but it\u2019s really quite sweet and charming. Well-written and with loveable characters and a kindness throughout the book I was enthralled from the first page. The book isn\u2019t incr What a delightful story! It was very difficult to choose a shelf for this book - it's not truly fantasy, but its not just adventure or mystery either. Perhaps a little Sci-Fi more than fantasy? Well, anyway, it was a wonderful book about four children who agree to help save the world. It sounds a little over-done, I know, but it\u2019s really quite sweet and charming. Well-written and with loveable characters and a kindness throughout the book I was enthralled from the first page. The book isn\u2019t incredibly in-depth \u2013 it isn\u2019t Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings \u2013 but it is just one book. The characters and plot, while both intriguing and well rounded, do not have quite as many layers as some other works. However, that said, I still loved the book! The friendships were wonderful and it was so much fun solving the puzzles along with the characters. And, yes, I was still surprised at \u2013 not entirely the ending itself \u2013 but how the ending came about. The letters Reynie writes are delightful, and the \u201cmorals\u201d of the story are apparent without being annoying. If you\u2019re at all curious as to what the Mysterious Benedict Society is, then don\u2019t hesitate to find out!:) (5 stars to the beginning 4 stars to the later half) ****** We started reading this last night (Katie and I) and I'm so looking forward to the journey! So far the style is intelligent and charming, and the characters 3-deminsional and yet somehow sweetly simplistic. However, I am only about 10 pages into the book...;> ...more What a treat this book was to read! I thoroughly enjoyed it -- the kids were great, the villain and his heinous plot were quite terrifying, and the plot clipped right along. My one small reservation is that somehow I find I am in no rush to read the sequel -- yet this might have simply to do with the fact that the story did clearly end (unlike, say, THE HUNGER GAMES ). But basically, I'd recommend MYSTERIOUS BENEDICT SOCIETY to anyone. I plan to give my copy to a bright 11-year old girl I know. This is by far the best YA novel that I have read since the Harry Potter books. Characters are great, thoughtful and like nothing I have read before. Even though this book is almost 500 pages long, I have been reading it aloud to my class and they are loving it! Every day I come into class they are asking if we get to read it for the day. I can't wait to get the second one. Enjoy! In the Mysterious Benedict Society, four children with four different problem solving skill sets come together to solve a mystery. Those four children consist of the reader, who has the amazing ability to memorize things; the engineer, who has the amazing ability to create anything to solve the task at hand from materials she carries with her; the baby, whose chief attribute is to be unpredictable and not listen to the rules much less follow them; and the professional puzzle solver, who looks at In the Mysterious Benedict Society, four children with four different problem solving skill sets come together to solve a mystery. Those four children consist of the reader, who has the amazing ability to memorize things; the engineer, who has the amazing ability to create anything to solve the task at hand from materials she carries with her; the baby, whose chief attribute is to be unpredictable and not listen to the rules much less follow them; and the professional puzzle solver, who looks at everything as a riddle needing a solution. The dangerous mystery they must solve can only be done by children because adults are far too complicit in the evil. Take away the fourth child character, and you're pretty much left with an ungothic Lemony Snicket. There are no great tragedies, the children learn that some adults can very much be trusted (in fact, are necessary to their health and safety), and of course, there is a happy ending. The world has no difficult choices or impossible complexity, and along with that, there is no subtle humor. The book also doesn't have any of the textual play that made Lemony Snicket like a modern day Tristram Shandy. In short, it stripped the Lemony Snicket books of everything I read them for. That's why I couldn't completely finish this book. On the other hand, I still think younger children (6th grade and under) would find this book charming. They don't read Lemony Snicket for the gothic bits, they read them for the puzzle bits, and in this respect alone, the Mysterious Benedict Society is superior. Not only does it give the reader several fun puzzles, it shows how each child solves that puzzle. As one reviewer pointed out, this can get tiring for the adult readers, but I still think children would find it all good fun. ...more Reynie, Kate, Sticky, and Constance are four very gifted children with a mission. They call themselves The Mysterious Benedict Society and together they have to infiltrate the nefarious Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened - a psuedo-school run by the evil Mr. Curtain. It's up to these four disimilar and intrepid kids to save the world and of course they are completely up to the task. I thnk this book will have broad appeal to under-12s. The length of the book threw me off - it was so long Reynie, Kate, Sticky, and Constance are four very gifted children with a mission. They call themselves The Mysterious Benedict Society and together they have to infiltrate the nefarious Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened - a psuedo-school run by the evil Mr. Curtain. It's up to these four disimilar and intrepid kids to save the world and of course they are completely up to the task. I thnk this book will have broad appeal to under-12s. The length of the book threw me off - it was so long I assumed it was a YA novel but instead it is definitely a kid's book. Along the lines of Lemony Snicket it has the same sort of irrevernt feel and tone. Plausability has no place in this book. I don't dislike the book but I don't like it either. I think the plot was too simplistic. The book is too long, with little point, the plot is at times circuitous and the characters show little to no character growth, they are the same in the end as when you met them. The bad-guys are cookie cutter baddies with cardboard personalties and evil or thuggish for the sake of being evil or thuggish. There's no great lesson in these pages. I find little of substance in it at all to be honest. There were a couple good lines, some good description and, at least at first, I found the characters quirky and appealing. In a book this size I expect to see some character growth and I think that more than anything is what irks me. There is no real change. It's all surface for the characters. They beat the bad guy, win the day and *poof* everything is happy and wonderful. It feels trite and simplistic. ...more <---A>Trenton Lee Stewart</---A> seems unafraid to pick up a few children\u2019s lit archetypes: four remarkable and lovable children (albeit one slightly less lovable than the others), missing parental figures, the kind male guardian, the boarding house/ evil school scenario, and themes of mind control and world domination. But within the archetypes, Stewart creates his own brand of magic. One becomes fond of Reynie Muldoon\u2019s human perception, Sticky Washington\u2019s nervous glasses cleaning habit, Constance Contrai Trenton Lee Stewart seems unafraid to pick up a few children\u2019s lit archetypes: four remarkable and lovable children (albeit one slightly less lovable than the others), missing parental figures, the kind male guardian, the boarding house/ evil school scenario, and themes of mind control and world domination. But within the archetypes, Stewart creates his own brand of magic. One becomes fond of Reynie Muldoon\u2019s human perception, Sticky Washington\u2019s nervous glasses cleaning habit, Constance Contraire\u2019s irritability (can you guess the reason for this?), and Kate Wetherall\u2019s acrobatic maneuvering and endlessly helpful red bucket. The intelligent writing, Carson Ellis\u2019s charming illustrations, the in-text puzzles, and memorable characters like Kate Wetherall make this book a must-read for those interested in children\u2019s lit. As soon as I finished the book, I ran out to buy the sequel. ...more In short, The Mysterious Benedict Society was fantastic. Delightful. Whimsical. It starts off with a series of tests- or puzzles, whichever you prefer. But there\u2019s only a few children who will pass the tests, and those children will be chosen for a dangerous task which basically involves saving the world and all that cool stuff. It starts off as the children are taken to the home of a man named Mr. Benedict, who essentially preps them for the task ahead (saving the world XD). Then, the children In short, The Mysterious Benedict Society was fantastic. Delightful. Whimsical. It starts off with a series of tests- or puzzles, whichever you prefer. But there\u2019s only a few children who will pass the tests, and those children will be chosen for a dangerous task which basically involves saving the world and all that cool stuff. It starts off as the children are taken to the home of a man named Mr. Benedict, who essentially preps them for the task ahead (saving the world XD). Then, the children are sent to the Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened (L. I. V. E. Kate, always the optimist, points out that at least it doesn\u2019t say \u2018die.\u2019) as spies. There, they have to discover how to foil the dastardly plot of the Institute\u2019s founder while pretending to be good students. \u201cIt sounds like there are no rules here at all,\u201d Sticky said. \u201cThat\u2019s true, George,\u201d Said Jillson. \u201cVirtually none, in fact. You can wear whatever you want, just so long as you have on trousers, shoes, and a shirt. You can bathe as often as you like or not at all, provided you\u2019re clean every day in class. You can eat whatever and whenever you want, so long as it\u2019s during meal hours in the cafeteria. You\u2019re allowed to keep the lights on in your rooms as late as you wish until ten o\u2019 clock each night. And you can go wherever you want around the Institute, so long as you keep to the paths and the yellow-tiled corridors.\u201d \u201cActually,\u201d Reynie observed, \u201cthose all sound like rules.\u201d Navigating through the Institute\u2019s tricky lessons, learning the Institute\u2019s \u2018lack of rules\u2019, and rising through the ranks to learn the secrets of the Institute is going to prove harder than the children might have expected. The Characters (summed up in quotes as best I could) MR. BENEDICT: \u201cAnd indeed I have been,\u201d said a voice, and out from behind the desk where he\u2019s been sitting, hidden by the piles of books, appeared a bespectacled, green-eyed man in a green plaid suit. His thick white hair was shaggy and mussed, his nose was rather large and lumpy like a vegetable, and although it was clear he had recently shaved, he appeared to have done so without the benefit of a mirror, for here and there upon his neck and chins were nicks from a razor, and occasional white whiskers he\u2019d missed altogether. This was Mr. Benedict. REYNIE: After a few more questions, all of which Reynie felt confident he had answered correctly, he arrived at the test\u2019s final question: \u201cAre you brave?\u201d Just reading the words quickened Reynie\u2019s heart. Was he brave? Bravery had never been required of him, so how could he tell? Finally he gave up trying to decide and simply wrote, \u201cI hope so.\u201d STICKY: There had been times in Sticky\u2019s life when an important question would flummox him no matter how well he knew the answer; and times he had run away from his own problems; and times when he\u2019d felt himself paralyzed when action was most needed. He\u2019d never understood this tendency of his- he knew only that he rarely live up to expectation, and for this reason had clung to fiercely to his nickname. Any boy with a name like George Washington must surely have great things expected of him. KATE: It took Kate Wetherall about three seconds to embrace her new role as a secret agent. While the other children gaped, blinked, and pinched themselves to be sure they weren\u2019t dreaming (actually, Constance pinched Sticky, who yelped and pinched her back)- in short, while the other children were adjusting to the news, Kate was peppering Mr. Benedict with questions: What was their mission to be? Would they need code names? Was it possible to use a somewhat longish code name? CONSTANCE: [from Mr. Benedict] \u201cNow then, where did I leave off? Oh yes, Constance. I take it you didn\u2019t find her answers as amusing as I do. I\u2019m not sure, however- perhaps you laughed while I was sleeping?\u201d He glanced at them hopefully, but was met with blank faces. \u201cI see. Well, perhaps you\u2019ll find this amusing: Instead of answering the questions on the second test, she composed a poem about the absurdity of the test and its rules, particularly about the missing fourth step- which apparently reminded her of donut holes, because these were the topic of a second poem. She is very irritated, it seems, that every donut contains a hole. She feels she is being robbed. I remember a particularly felicitous rhyme between \u2018flaky bereft\u2019 and \u2018bakery theft.\u2019 Let\u2019s see, where was it? I have it right here\u2026\u201d He began flipping through the test pages. MILLIGAN: Before them stood a tall man in a weatherbeaten hat, a weatherbeaten jacket, weatherbeaten trousers, and weatherbeaten boots. His ruddy cheeks where dark with whisker stubble, while his hair (what little peeked from beneath his hat) was yellow as flax. If not for the alertness in his ocean-blue eyes, he would resemble, more than anything, a scarecrow that had come down from its stake. On top of all this, the man\u2019s expression was profoundly sad. All the children noticed this at once. While this book most definitely is a light-hearted rollick full of spies, humor, and good-natured fun, that\u2019s definitely not all it is. The characters and the events of the plot come together in themes of friendship, bravery, teamwork, and doing the right thing no matter what. It sports a cast of extremely well-developed characters, characters who have fears and weaknesses just like everyone. He was just turning from the window when he saw a distant flash, a pinprick of light among the trees of the mainland shore. Someone, at last, was signaling a response. Reynie heard his pulse pounding in his ears. He held his breath until the message was completed. \u2018Remember the white knight.\u2019 Reynie let out his breath. A long, slow release. He didn\u2019t have to think very hard to know what Mr. Benedict meant by that. Though it seemed so long ago, he well remembered their conversation about the chess problem. The white knight had made a move, changed his mind, and started over. \u201cAnd do you believe this was a good move?\u201d Mr. Benedict had asked. \u201cNo, sir.\u201d Reynie had answered. \u201cWhy, then, do you think he made it?\u201d And Reynie had replied, \u201cPerhaps because he doubted himself.\u201d They\u2019re not superheroes, they\u2019ve got their doubts. And it\u2019s the villain who\u2019s going to try to play off these fears and doubts, using his machine called the Whisperer, a machine that eases the fears of anyone using it with lies. \u201cSo it\u2019s just a wonderful illusion!\u201d Martina said. \u201cThat explains why the fears always come back later. I\u2019ve always wondered about that- when I\u2019m in the Whisperer they seem to have gone away forever.\u201d Mr. Curtain laughed. \u201cSadly, no. The only way fears truly disappear is if you confront them. But who in the world wishes to confront his or her worst fears?\u201d Mr. Curtain advocates giving in to your fears. Accepting them. Pretending that they aren\u2019t even there. But in the end, the only way the children can defeat Mr. Curtain and the Whisperer is by confronting their own fears. And when faced with the ultimate temptation of giving in to the Whisperer- and having their fears eased, it\u2019s only by working together that the children can hope to bring an end to it. The cuffs clasped Reynie\u2019s wrists. The helmet lowered. Reynie closed his eyes, only to see the faces of his friends. He remembered the final question of Mr. Benedict\u2019s first test: Are you brave? Now, at least, Reynie knew the answer. He wasn\u2019t brave. He had only hoped he was. No one said saving the world would be easy. But Reynie, Kate, Sticky, and Constance are the only ones who can. And although they\u2019re given a chance to turn back, they\u2019re still ready to choose what they know is right. With the help of Mr. Benedict and his motley crew, it\u2019s up to the children to stop the lies for good. ...more I'VE FINISHED THE BOOK: My initial impressions (and review comments) were overwhelmingly enthusiastic. I admit that the second half of the book did not quite live up to my hopes/expectations but I'd still give the book four stars overall (five stars for the beginning--see comments below). I felt that the second half of the story (once the children officially embark on their mission and become The Mysterious Benedict Society) was not as captivating, mainly because I found a great deal of the char I'VE FINISHED THE BOOK: My initial impressions (and review comments) were overwhelmingly enthusiastic. I admit that the second half of the book did not quite live up to my hopes/expectations but I'd still give the book four stars overall (five stars for the beginning--see comments below). I felt that the second half of the story (once the children officially embark on their mission and become The Mysterious Benedict Society) was not as captivating, mainly because I found a great deal of the charm in the first half was found in the character descriptions/development and the little mysteries and puzzles the children had to solve. Once they embark on their mission, the characters they encounter become more one-dimensional and also the character development of the children is rather forgotten for awhile in the attempt to describe the great mystery/challenge they must face and thwart (and, also, I was not ultra-engrossed in that particular element of the story). Ultimately, the climax was still interesting and exciting and it had a very tidy and happy ending (much more a typical \"children's book\" in that respect than, say, Harry Potter) and I would recommend this to those wishing a pleasant and easy read (though a few of the puzzles in the beginning weren't that easy for me!) about a diverse and entertaining group of orphans who must save the world and find a way to feel loved and to belong in it if they do. UPDATE: ABOUT 2/3 DONE--CONTINUES CHARMING!!!! SO FAR, RECOMMENDED TO ANYONE MISSING STORIES ABOUT CHILDREN AT INTERESTING SCHOOLS NEEDING TO FIGURE OUT A MYSTERY AND \"SAVE THE WORLD\" (NOT THAT IT'S \"HAPPY POTTER\" BY ANY STRETCH OF THE IMAGINATION, BUT IF YOU MISS HARRY THIS CHRISTMAS, TRY THIS BOOK!) It is sooo captivating, I adore the characters (even if one is highly annoying!) and the mystery/suspense is excellent--tantalizing instead of irritating in its unfolding and (as of yet) relative vagueness. I can't believe that this book simply appeared randomly on Amazon as I was searching for something else--truth is, THIS is the type of book I've been looking for! So far, it is a good consolation for missing Harry Potter--it's not really similar, yet has its own style about students and orphans and children who must do amazing things. **Intelligent in content yet sweetly simple in style; the characters already seem quite real--this is an author who seems to remember/understand childhood. I'm excited to continue the imaginative journey...** ...more \"What's wrong with this statement?\" -The Mysterious Benedict Society The Mysterious Benedict Society is probably the best Holiday-read ever! It's a combination of the Harry Potter adventures and The Series of Unfortunate Events! Specifically, I felt that the mystery which made this book an ultimate page-turner is very similar to the Harry Potter series and the characters are akin to The Series of Unfortunate Events, especially Mr Benedict, who reminds me of Lemony Snicket's Uncle Monty. Mr. Benedi \"What's wrong with this statement?\" -The Mysterious Benedict Society The Mysterious Benedict Society is probably the best Holiday-read ever! It's a combination of the Harry Potter adventures and The Series of Unfortunate Events! Specifically, I felt that the mystery which made this book an ultimate page-turner is very similar to the Harry Potter series and the characters are akin to The Series of Unfortunate Events, especially Mr Benedict, who reminds me of Lemony Snicket's Uncle Monty. Mr. Benedict is a very important character in this novel, he is the one who makes a series of tests to find gifted children to assist him in stopping Mr. Curtain, who is heedfully plotting to rule the world. He puts an advertisement in the newspaper, and he gets four (4) very gifted children that he could have only hoped for - Reynie Muldoon, Sticky Washington, Kate Wetherall, and Constance Contraire. \u201cYou must remember, family is often born of blood, but it doesn't depend on blood. Nor is it exclusive of friendship. Family members can be your best friends, you know. And best friends, whether or not they are related to you, can be your family.\u201d ...more Imagine trying to save the world as a child and all you have is Morse code. In The Mysterious Benedict Society, Reynie Muldoon is the brightest kid at his orphanage. His teacher finds out about a special test for special children, and signs Reynie up. Instead of doing the test in sequential order, Reynie goes ahead and finds the answers to earlier questions in the later questions. Because of his power to think outside the box, Reynie passes the test. He soon meets the other children who each pas Imagine trying to save the world as a child and all you have is Morse code. In The Mysterious Benedict Society, Reynie Muldoon is the brightest kid at his orphanage. His teacher finds out about a special test for special children, and signs Reynie up. Instead of doing the test in sequential order, Reynie goes ahead and finds the answers to earlier questions in the later questions. Because of his power to think outside the box, Reynie passes the test. He soon meets the other children who each passed the test in a different way. Sticky passes the test with his photographic memory, so everything Sticky reads or hears, \u201csticks in his head\u201d. Kate doesn\u2019t actually pass the test, but she saved one of the test administrators from a tight situation, involving enraged parents, who wanted a refund after their kid was sent out in just five minutes. Constance didn\u2019t even answer a single question, but instead wrote a poem that amused the test administrator. Soon they meet Mr. Benedict, the man behind the test. He tells them why they passed and surprises them by informing them that they are needed to help him save the world. He sends them off to Nomansan Island where the evil Mr. Curtain is plotting to take over the world, with a mind control device that he will soon broadcast through T.V\u2019s around the world. As the society tries to stop Mr. Curtain, he creates obstacles for Reynie and his friends who keep having to think outside the box and work as a team to avoid being mind-controlled. These obstacles include, secret lairs hidden by sliding boulders and seemingly harmless plants. When Sticky eyes the plants he thinks they\u2019re innocuous, but as he goes to get a closer look, the plants snatch him up, and in the confusion to save Sticky, Constance who was resting upon Kate\u2019s shoulders, goes flying into the plants, but with Kate\u2019s quick reflexes she quickly snags Constance before the plants can get a good grip on her. Sticky on the other hand is almost completely engulfed in the plants, with only his head and arms showing. Reynie, Kate, and Constance have to work together to save Sticky. In the end, The Mysterious Benedict Society was an amazing book and would be especially enjoyable to readers who like puns and figures of speech, like the name Constance Contraire. It kept me wondering what would happen in the end, with many mysteries that stop and start randomly, but everything eventually falls into place. I especially enjoyed seeing the mental connection that developed between the four, throughout the book. Once I started reading The Mysterious Benedict Society, I didn\u2019t stop reading until I finished the whole series in a month and a half! ...more This isn't a bad read for the YA market. The premius is one that I liked but I wonder if kids can follow it (any more). Yes I know...I sound condescending, sorry. The book's protagonists are gifted kids who aren't really interested in TV and think for themselves...wow, if only. They love \"truth\" (that has become a somewhat flexable word of late). All kidding aside a nice book. Books where the \"outsider\" kids are the heroes (like this one)are much more common now. I suppose some of that might be This isn't a bad read for the YA market. The premius is one that I liked but I wonder if kids can follow it (any more). Yes I know...I sound condescending, sorry. The book's protagonists are gifted kids who aren't really interested in TV and think for themselves...wow, if only. They love \"truth\" (that has become a somewhat flexable word of late). All kidding aside a nice book. Books where the \"outsider\" kids are the heroes (like this one)are much more common now. I suppose some of that might be because many of the people who grew up to write these books were the \"outsider\" kids. Try this, see how you like it, what you think of it, and then consider letting your kids read it. ...more Four brilliant orphans are recruited by a Mr. Benedict, who needs their help to discover who is behind a plot to rule the world. The best thing about this book are the logic puzzles the kids have to solve to get invited into the Benedict Society - readers can figure out solutions at the same time the characters do. I really found myself rooting for those plucky orphans, each with their own unique personalities and skills. Go orphans! Save the world! This story is shrouded with mystery and secrets. This story revolves around incredibly clever children who join a secret society which the children later call: \"the mysterious Benedict society\". This story makes you think along with the characters and makes you want to find out what happens next. If these descriptions doesn't make you want to read this book. I don't know what will. The characters They are all a bunch of lovable characters. There's Reynie who's the main character. He is what you c This story is shrouded with mystery and secrets. This story revolves around incredibly clever children who join a secret society which the children later call: \"the mysterious Benedict society\". This story makes you think along with the characters and makes you want to find out what happens next. If these descriptions doesn't make you want to read this book. I don't know what will. The characters They are all a bunch of lovable characters. There's Reynie who's the main character. He is what you call the puzzle solver and the leader of the group. Whenever he's in a fix, he finds his way around it. He's a really humble character. He doesn't act arrogantly because of his wit and intelligence nor does her taunt others. He always pays attention to his surroundings and his fellow team members. Then we have Sticky. He is what you would call a gifted genius. He can absorb information and read really quickly. He knows more than an adult! So,when anyone asks any definition,he will answer you immediately with the full definition. He also knows lots of trivia many people don't know. Then,there's Kate. Kate is someone who is adventurous and very creative. She has this tool bucket which she brings around everywhere. She claims that it is handy to bring one around. She uses these tools to find solutions to the problems they face. She is the one in the group that motivates everyone to go on adventures even when it's risky and when they shouldn't be. Lastly,there's Constance. Constance is a moody and cranky character.She is always throwing tantrums and she knows quite a lot for her age. (Later on,her behaviour is explained) She is a really sensitive character and she can \"sense\" unlike the other characters. Then, there's Mr Nicholas Benedict,Number 2 and Rhonda. They are the masterminds behind this society. They are the ones who have created this society to ward off an evil plan made by a man named, mr curtain. The plot The plot revolves around the four children. They all share a similar past which is that they don't have parents in their lives. (They either ran away,their parents died or they are orphans) So, they sit through a very special and tough test to seek special opportunities.(as explained in the newspaper advertisement) And only four very witty and clever children can enter this society. Mr Benedict then sends them off to a mission to save the world(in a way) from an evil genius aka Mr Curtain. They go off to this academy which promotes the opposite of what the children are accustomed to.(the children don't watch television unlike the students in the academy do) So,they must learn to assimilate and find out the secret plans of Mr Curtain and eventually thwart his plans. Well, along the way,they face a lot of challenges and they discover that not only do they require wit,intelligence and secrets tactics(morse code) to succeed in their mission. They also require loyalty,friendship and teamwork. So, they are \"tested\" constantly during the mission and they discover themselves. In overall,the plot and the characters were really interesting. I was not bored at any point of the book. I also found myself thinking along with the characters and felt myself immersed in the mystery. I really loved it and I recommend it! ...more There's something a bit Roald Dahl -ish about this book in that it has a fairly preposterous story (children infiltrating an institute run by an evil genious baddie, to thwart his plan to take over the world), and a rather light tone. Yet it's also not quite Dahl-ish in a couple ways; despite the evil genious plot the book is permeated with a sense of kindness and is full of deeply nice people (which is good). It's also long and rambling (less good). Dahl could have wrapped the story up neatly an There's something a bit Roald Dahl -ish about this book in that it has a fairly preposterous story (children infiltrating an institute run by an evil genious baddie, to thwart his plan to take over the world), and a rather light tone. Yet it's also not quite Dahl-ish in a couple ways; despite the evil genious plot the book is permeated with a sense of kindness and is full of deeply nice people (which is good). It's also long and rambling (less good). Dahl could have wrapped the story up neatly and crisply in one fourth the space. My son (currently nine) loved it. I was mildly charmed and deeply bored by turns; my unoccupied mind kept itself busy looking for holes in the plot as I read aloud. There were many aspects of it that strained credulity and common sense. We actually started it as an audio book for a Thanksgiving road trip, but when we returned home, we had only listened to three of the eleven CDs. So I got a paperback copy, and we picked up where we left off with it as our bedtime chapter book, interspersed with some chapters of the audio version on slightly longer than usual drives... Goodness, it took us nearly a month to get through it. It had its moments, but didn't merit the huge time commitment. If my son wants to read the next one (and he does -- before he even knew there was a next one, he wanted to write it himself), he's on his own. If he does read the sequel, it will be the biggest longest book he's ever tackled by himself. Curious to see how that will go. ...more I loved this book! It is such an interesting idea which makes for a very interesting plot! The characters were lovable (I just loved Constance, despite her stubbornness) and realistic. I really would say that this book series is as good as Harry Potter! Read it! A fun adventure story with puzzles to be solved and friendships to be made! A fun, whimsical read! The writing style reminded me of Roald Dahl, bringing me back to the good ol' MG days *sigh* Initial thoughts: 1. Loved the writing style. Nostalgia <3 2. Really enjoyed the characters. Heavy in character development and growth. Each of the main characters were unique and fresh. 3. The middle of the plot was a bit slow, and convoluted. The urgency in The Mission didn't quite match the pacing in the middle. 4. Love the illustrations at the beginning of each chapter. AWESOME. I A fun, whimsical read! The writing style reminded me of Roald Dahl, bringing me back to the good ol' MG days *sigh* Initial thoughts: 1. Loved the writing style. Nostalgia <3 2. Really enjoyed the characters. Heavy in character development and growth. Each of the main characters were unique and fresh. 3. The middle of the plot was a bit slow, and convoluted. The urgency in The Mission didn't quite match the pacing in the middle. 4. Love the illustrations at the beginning of each chapter. AWESOME. I'll definitely be checking out the rest of the series. Check out my full video review! ...more DNF at 24% Wow! What a fantastic book. Going into it I didn't really know what it was about or what to expect from it, so it was really fun to read! I picked it up because my friends said I needed to read it. So I did :) I don't want to give too much away, but it's about a group kids who go and take a bunch of tests, but only four kids will complete all of the tests. And then they join the Mysterious Benedict Society. The whole story is a little weird (but not anymore so than Series of Unfortunate Events), Wow! What a fantastic book. Going into it I didn't really know what it was about or what to expect from it, so it was really fun to read! I picked it up because my friends said I needed to read it. So I did :) I don't want to give too much away, but it's about a group kids who go and take a bunch of tests, but only four kids will complete all of the tests. And then they join the Mysterious Benedict Society. The whole story is a little weird (but not anymore so than Series of Unfortunate Events), and the whole Whisperer thing is a bit creepy if you think about it. But once you get over the weird part and just go with it, it's REALLY good. I'd recommend it for kids 11 and up if they're reading it on their own. That's because there's some complicated words and stuff in there, so it might go a little over their heads. But if someone were to read it to them and help them understand what things mean and such, I'd say 8 or 9 and up. And I'd highly recommend it to any of my friends :) ...more This book was great. I love these types of books. Books like this and Lemony Snicket books are wonderful! Whether you are the type of adult who will enjoy this novel depends on the type of child you were. Gawky, studious, overly earnest outsiders will adore The Mysterious Benedict Society . If you were popular, athletic, or a rebellious Goth, this book is sooooo not for you. While Trenton Lee Stewart\u2019s first novel in what is so far a series of three has been compared to J.K. Rowling\u2019s Harry Potter series, I find the bulk of the book more reminiscent of the late E.L. Konigsburg \u2019s The View from Saturday Whether you are the type of adult who will enjoy this novel depends on the type of child you were. Gawky, studious, overly earnest outsiders will adore The Mysterious Benedict Society . If you were popular, athletic, or a rebellious Goth, this book is sooooo not for you. While Trenton Lee Stewart\u2019s first novel in what is so far a series of three has been compared to J.K. Rowling\u2019s Harry Potter series, I find the bulk of the book more reminiscent of the late E.L. Konigsburg \u2019s The View from Saturday with a dash of Cartoon Network\u2019s children\u2019s spy thriller The Kids Next Door . In both The Mysterious Benedict Society and The View from Saturday , a motley collection of misfits comes together to form a team that accomplishes more than anyone would have believed possible. The beginning, of course, is reminiscent of Roald Dahl \u2019s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ; as in Dahl\u2019s classic, in The Mysterious Benedict Society , a forlorn boy gets selected by a mysterious Svengali, rescuing him from his sad circumstances. In the books and the television show, children of an academic bent get an opportunity to shine and to boost their confidence. However, in The Mysterious Benedict Society , the selection process goes on a tad too long, but once on assignment, the book\u2019s pace really picks up. I certainly stayed up too late reading! In addition, Carson Ellis \u2019 old-fashioned illustrations heralding each chapter are a delight in themselves! Readers will also find the quest that the four children undertake pretty thrilling. Four children are chosen to undertake a dangerous and demanding mission; to say more would be to ruin the fun. While not ranking with the best of the kids-on-a-dangerous mission genre \u2014 think A Wrinkle in Time , Stormbreaker ; The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe ; An Enemy at Green Knowe or the beloved Harry Potter series \u2014 anyone who enjoys offbeat children\u2019s fare should give The Mysterious Benedict Society a try. ...more The Mysterious Benedict Society is an absolute delight to read. Filled with clever riddles, twists, and memorable characters, you won't be able to resist following Stewart's characters as they crack codes and go on secret missions. \"Are you a gifted child looking for special opportunities?\" It's this very news article that attracts children from across the country to come take a series of intricate test. But in the end, it's only four children who succeed - Reynie Muldoon, Sticky Washington, The Mysterious Benedict Society is an absolute delight to read. Filled with clever riddles, twists, and memorable characters, you won't be able to resist following Stewart's characters as they crack codes and go on secret missions. \"Are you a gifted child looking for special opportunities?\" It's this very news article that attracts children from across the country to come take a series of intricate test. But in the end, it's only four children who succeed - Reynie Muldoon, Sticky Washington, Kate Wetherall and Constance Contraire. They are sent to study undercover at the Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened, where they must stop an evil doctor before he brainwashes the world. The cast of characters Stewart creates are unforgettable. You have Reynie, who has a keen eye for spotting puzzles and patterns; Sticky, who has a photographic memory for anything he's ever read; Kate, whose athletic ability is something to be reckoned with; and Constance, who's stubborn and moody. Each of these children have different types of intelligence and contribute something equally important to the success of the mission. Each of Stewart's characters are apt in characterization and have wonderful backstories, something I thoroughly appreciated. The most intriguing part of the book, however, are the wonderful puzzles. There are puzzles and riddles galore to solve throughout the course of the book, and adults and children alike will find themselves aptly interested in solving these puzzles alongside them and seeing if they answer them correctly. I cannot recommend this enough; especially if you like solving puzzles and unforgettable characters. If you found yourself engrossed in The Westing Game or The Name of this Book is Secret , I can almost assure you this will be a hit as well. ...more Age: 10+ Plot: 4.5 stars Characters: 5 stars Writing: 4.5 stars Overall: 5 stars My review: This book was amazing. That is all there is to it. I'm still marveling how this 500 page book did not have me bored even once. The plot was exciting and well thought out. And the characters. Where can I even start with the characters? Shy yet smart Reynie, brilliant Sticky, circus performer Kate, and tiny, stubborn Constance. They all work together so well. (view spoiler) [ And at the end when Constance sits in Age: 10+ Plot: 4.5 stars Characters: 5 stars Writing: 4.5 stars Overall: 5 stars My review: This book was amazing. That is all there is to it. I'm still marveling how this 500 page book did not have me bored even once. The plot was exciting and well thought out. And the characters. Where can I even start with the characters? Shy yet smart Reynie, brilliant Sticky, circus performer Kate, and tiny, stubborn Constance. They all work together so well. (view spoiler) [ And at the end when Constance sits in the Whisperer to help the group, I felt so proud of her! I felt almost like her mother by the end. (hide spoiler) ] And those plot twists. They were awesome. So, let's see. If every book is about this length then that will be 2000 pages for this series. EEP, I NEED THE SECOND BOOK NOW! So, yeah, go read this book. You won't regret it. Similar Book: The Westing Game Series: The Mysterious Benedict Society and the Perilous Journey ; The Mysterious Benedict Society and the Prisoner's Dilemma ; The Extraordinary Education of Nicholas Benedict Quotes: \"And please don't call me that.\" \"I didn't call you 'that', I called you George Washington.\" \"Every great thinker keeps a journal, you know.\" \"Oh, here's a clever one. Do you remember this question from the first test? It reads, 'What's wrong with this statement?' And do you know what Constance wrote in reply? She wrote, 'What's wrong with you?\" ...more I'm reading this one aloud to my boys (5 and 7) they are loving it so far. We are about 2/3 of the way through. The first half was excellent. The characters aren't as developed as I would like and the overall plot is dragging a bit right now. But the kids are still captivated. GREAT MORAL LESSONS for kids here; think honesty, good sportsmanship, and especially integrity. Update: The boys loved it. Both boys gave the book five stars. I gave it three. It got off to a roaring start, excellent charac I'm reading this one aloud to my boys (5 and 7) they are loving it so far. We are about 2/3 of the way through. The first half was excellent. The characters aren't as developed as I would like and the overall plot is dragging a bit right now. But the kids are still captivated. GREAT MORAL LESSONS for kids here; think honesty, good sportsmanship, and especially integrity. Update: The boys loved it. Both boys gave the book five stars. I gave it three. It got off to a roaring start, excellent character lessons, etc. but the middle really slowed down, the characters became quite predictable, everything became rather one-dimensional, and the ending was just a little too happily ever after, even for a kids book. ...more The clever start to a clever kids' series that's not quite clever enough to keep this world-weary adult entertained. This book gets off to a fun start with the chapters in which young orphan Reynie is tested for admittance into the eponymous society. Once the actual plot gets going, however, there's way too much Evil Villains and Their Evil Plans Are Evil stuff going on. It's fairly yawn-inducing for anyone who's read anything like that before, and I've read lots . The ragtag assortment of child The clever start to a clever kids' series that's not quite clever enough to keep this world-weary adult entertained. This book gets off to a fun start with the chapters in which young orphan Reynie is tested for admittance into the eponymous society. Once the actual plot gets going, however, there's way too much Evil Villains and Their Evil Plans Are Evil stuff going on. It's fairly yawn-inducing for anyone who's read anything like that before, and I've read lots . The ragtag assortment of child prodigies, despite being pretty awesome--especially Kate!--also take a frustratingly long time to figure out what's going on. I can totally understand why younger kids like these books, but I found the series lacks crossover appeal. ...more I have never finished a book over 300 pages in less than a week. EVER. This book was, in a few different words: -Funny -Fast -Clever -Witty -Thrilling I cannot believe that I let this book sit on my shelf for over a year. It was so good! Of you like Middle Grades with a taste of sarcasm, this book is for you. If you like a well written cast of characters, this book is for you. If you like well written books in general, this book is for you. This boOK WaS sO CLEVER and PrECiOus and WonDEerFuL and YOU SHOULD I have never finished a book over 300 pages in less than a week. EVER. This book was, in a few different words: -Funny -Fast -Clever -Witty -Thrilling I cannot believe that I let this book sit on my shelf for over a year. It was so good! Of you like Middle Grades with a taste of sarcasm, this book is for you. If you like a well written cast of characters, this book is for you. If you like well written books in general, this book is for you. This boOK WaS sO CLEVER and PrECiOus and WonDEerFuL and YOU SHOULD READ IT. And that's all you need to know. Until the next book, Leah Jay ...more", "Title": "The Mysterious Benedict Society"},
