{"Comments": "<+++>13 Little Blue Envelopes</+++> suffers from DPS. Disappearing Parent Syndrome is a tragic epidemic in YA novels. In this case the DPS was particularly severe. Seventeen year old Ginny Blackstone goes on a trip to Europe sponsored by her deceased aunt. Aunt Peg was not reliable when she was around. In fact, during the last several years of Ginny's life Peg was in Europe. She died without contacting the family to let them know she was suffering from a prolonged illness. The family was just expected to p <+++>13 Little Blue Envelopes</+++> suffers from DPS. Disappearing Parent Syndrome is a tragic epidemic in YA novels. In this case the DPS was particularly severe. Seventeen year old Ginny Blackstone goes on a trip to Europe sponsored by her deceased aunt. Aunt Peg was not reliable when she was around. In fact, during the last several years of Ginny's life Peg was in Europe. She died without contacting the family to let them know she was suffering from a prolonged illness. The family was just expected to pick up the pieces after she passed with very little explanation -- but wait! Aunt Peg has left Ginny mysterious envelopes that she's not allowed to open all at once and strange instructions to travel around Europe. Mr.<---F> and Mrs</---F>. Disappearstone allow their seventeen year old daughter -- their only child -- to go traipsing around Europe. The rules state she's not allowed a cell phone or laptop or camera. They're not even allowed to give her extra money so they know there's a back up plan in case Mrs. Disapperancestone's unreliable sister who died from a brain tumor several months before hasn't provided Ginny with everything she might need for this spur of the moment trip. Oh yeah, and she's not allowed to call them even on a pay phone. No communication back home. Honestly, I would have been slightly concerned in Ginny's case. What's the goal here? Sell me on the black market? You know what I would have done if I was Mummy-DisappearanceStone? I would have told my daughter that Aunt Peg was mentally unstable when she was healthy and thrown the envelopes into a fire place before I let her go off on some half-baked adventure across Europe. Of course, Ginny thought mentions that her parents weren't thrilled, but somehow this underaged minor is still on a plane to England in the first few chapters. Awesome, just awesome. Look, some of my annoyance with this book is based on just how often the parents disappear in YA fiction. I know it's the easiest route to take. How can Ginny have a sexy adventure in England and then the rest of Europe if her mom is following her around? Well, if you can't man up and work with the circumstances the age of your character gives you then you have no business writing Young Adult fiction. This book should have been written about a girl who has completed one or two years of college, who has some experience living out there on her own within reasonable distance to her family (even if that reasonable distance is merely being able to pick up a phone and ask for financial help). No sane parent would ever let their child go on the trip Ginny did. I was asked to suspend my disbelief a little too far and now it's lost. Mourn for it. While I think this book was better suited for 20-something chick-lit I also don't think <---A>Maureen Johnson</---A> has the stomach to ever do the sex scene that would have more likely than not happened if she hadn't been writing about a dewy-eyed Virgin. Yes, Virgin with a capital V. From what I gather reading other reviews on Maureen Johnson's books her characters pretty much all have the capital Virgin card in their deck. I'm tired of the constant YA virgin business. Part of what made me love The Duff was the fact that we didn't have another maidenhead to protect throughout the whole book! The novel *gasp* started with a non-virginal teenager. Anyway, Ginny's adventures are very uncoordinated. I get that the aunt made Ginny's trip mimic her own eccentric path across Europe, but I should have felt there was some master intention from the author's point of view rather than constantly imagining Maureen Johnson throwing a dart at a map of Europe and going 'okay, time to buy a travel book for that country!' The writing was, unfortunately, not top notch. There was a scene where Ginny really had to pee, but couldn't tell the difference between the men and women's bathroom symbols. She gets whisked off before she can pee and it felt like a Chekhov's gun. It left me sitting there wondering what just happened. Why did you waste my time with that scene if it meant nothing? Ginny also gets put in a near date-rape situation from following her aunt's advice to hit on a random Italian boy. This immediately follows her nearly getting mugged. Eventually she does get robbed of all her worldly possessions,<---M> what's left of her very dwindling money</---M>, and the last envelope that could have explained all the shit that happened to her. Losing the last envelope was a cop out. It wasn't a clever device that added mystery to the novel. Some of what might have been in the note gets discovered later, but you never know for sure what it said. There is a sequel to the novel planned, but I think the intention was to leave it dangling. Also, the subplot about her aunt's paintings and how the value sky-rocketed after her death? Um no. Peg had not merited a lot of fame in life. Her death was abrupt and she died young, yes, but death does not equate millions of dollars to your estate. It was an over simplification of how the art world works and in the end it just wasn't accurate. A huge portion of the happily ever ending was contingent on these unbelievable stipulations. Oh and the romance.... Yeah. I felt more of a connection between two stick figures I doodled at work. The romance felt like requisite met because it was a YA coming of age novel rather than anything that actually fit with the book. Keith is around for one country and pops up in another so that their romance can develop. Forced, contrived etc etc. So why two stars and not one? The writing wasn't awful. The idea was just underdeveloped and rushed. I think with more time from Johnson and an editor who'd pushed her to really polish it the book could have easily been three stars, maybe four. I do think she has some talent and I want to try her again, but this was definitely a disappointing start. ...more Unimpressive. The way Johnson writes is annoying; more than halfway into the book, I really didn't know ANYTHING about the main character, other than that she was on a (ridiculous) journey. It was all action and no thought. It was not insightful. The main character was not likeable. She wasn't unlikeable either. She was just like...doing things. She didn't have very many thoughts. And never very insightful ones (ie \"I like this boy! I am sad. I am happy. I am angry\"). COME ON. There was no attem Unimpressive. The way Johnson writes is annoying; more than halfway into the book, I really didn't know ANYTHING about the main character, other than that she was on a (ridiculous) journey. It was all action and no thought. It was not insightful. The main character was not likeable. She wasn't unlikeable either. She was just like...doing things. She didn't have very many thoughts. And never very insightful ones (ie \"I like this boy! I am sad. I am happy. I am angry\"). COME ON. There was no attempt made to make her a human, a believable character. Also the end was frustrating but kind of oddly moving (a little) at the same time. But overall, I was not in any way impressed. ...more I am not going to review this book except to say the thing that made me crazy. There were several instances in this book where something was mentioned and you think it is important and then it was dropped. For instance, when the MC goes in the Louvre, it is mentioned that she checks her backpack in at the front--kind of like a coat check. Okay. No problem. But then, as she is trying to get out of the Louvre she kind of starts going down random hall after hall in search of an exit and finally finds I am not going to review this book except to say the thing that made me crazy. There were several instances in this book where something was mentioned and you think it is important and then it was dropped. For instance, when the MC goes in the Louvre, it is mentioned that she checks her backpack in at the front--kind of like a coat check. Okay. No problem. But then, as she is trying to get out of the Louvre she kind of starts going down random hall after hall in search of an exit and finally finds one and leaves. Later, we see that she is on the street and has her back pack. Excuse me? How/when did she retrieve it? This drove me to distraction. Why was it even mentioned that she checked it in??? If you mention a small detail like this, it should be important later. Do not leave me hanging. It would've been differnt if we never saw her leave the Louvre because the reader could then assume she retrieved it. This was not the only scene that did this kind of thing. There was another in Denmark when she gets off a train and it is mentioned that she has to pee very badly. She does not know which restroom is mens or womens. As she is trying to decide, her ride comes, hustles her along to a boat, and we never find out of the poor girl ever got to pee!! I worried about her through the next few scenes! Okay--other than that, the book was a good read. Carry on with your lives. ...more I read this book as an assignment from a mother-daughter book club that I am in with some friends from B.F. Day. It wasn't very good, and while the plot is a nice idea, the author didn't really write it very well. I mean, who would let thier daughter go overseas with no contact to the US and only carrying what she could fit in her backpack. And only haveing 1000 US dollars to spend. In addition to several other appalling facts, some of which are: letting your daughter do the following: 1 stay with a I read this book as an assignment from a mother-daughter book club that I am in with some friends from B.F. Day. It wasn't very good, and while the plot is a nice idea, the author didn't really write it very well. I mean, who would let thier daughter go overseas with no contact to the US and only carrying what she could fit in her backpack. And only haveing 1000 US dollars to spend. In addition to several other appalling facts, some of which are: letting your daughter do the following: 1 stay with a adult male to whom she is not related to, and you have no clue who he is other than she is your unreliable completely out of controll sister's friend 2 travel around unsupervised all over Europe following a pack of envelopes 3 go on a wild goose chase, the letters written by your sister who as I mentioned before is unreliable, and completely out of controll Oh, and by the way, did I mention that your daughter isn't even out of high school yet? ...more Oh, book. I had such hopes for you. Here's the thing - I love travel stories. I love coming of age stories. So what's not to love about a coming of age story that involves lots and lots of traveling? It's a hard question to answer, and the fastest way to answer it is: Aunt Peg is one seriously bitter person. She lives without having constants. Fair enough. She does all sorts of menial, petty jobs while waiting for her career as an artist to hit off. Alright with me. Then she packs up and leaves for Oh, book. I had such hopes for you. Here's the thing - I love travel stories. I love coming of age stories. So what's not to love about a coming of age story that involves lots and lots of traveling? It's a hard question to answer, and the fastest way to answer it is: Aunt Peg is one seriously bitter person. She lives without having constants. Fair enough. She does all sorts of menial, petty jobs while waiting for her career as an artist to hit off. Alright with me. Then she packs up and leaves for Europe without contacting her family again. The next news they get from her is that she is dead. Then comes a letter instructing her niece to go to Europe without money, cell phone or any other means of communication - just a passport and a backpack, and instructions to do all sorts of weird things Ginny (the niece) is probably not comfortable with. And I ask - what kind of person does that to a niece they supposedly love? What kind of person expects her to jump on a plane to England with little more than the clothes on her back, without so much as an explenation. The only person who can be more annoying is the one who actually does it! Unfortunately, Ginny does just that. With surprisingly little drama from her parents, or if there was, it wasn't worth mentioning in the book. A lot of things seem not worth mentioning in the book, for example, why is Ginny not even remotely worried that her aunt's mystic journey might get her adbucted or killed or sold into slavery? Why does she trust all these people who she meets for the first time? Ginny does not rival Luce Price or Nora Gray in the TSTL heroines listing, but she does start a whole new category - Too Boring To Be Real (TBTBR. Sounds like a vaccine). The trademark TBTBR hero(ine) is distinguished by the fact that (s)he does exactly what s(he) is told with little to no deviation, never cheats, and at no point does anything to advance the plot. Ginny, unfortunately, qualifies for all these things. I know I'm going out on a tangent here. This isn't horrendously bad, far from it. There are actually some pretty good moments. But Ginny is by far the most uninvolved heroine I've yet to see. Even Bella Swan, who is known for her uselessness, did stuff to advance the plot of the book. Granted, some of that stuff wasn't very smart *coughjumpingoffcliffscough*, but still, it was something. Ginny just lets stuff happen to her and leaves it at that. I'm not saying all protagonists need to be uber confident and strong but this is a coming of age story without any coming of age in it. What does Ginny learn in the end of it? What does she do with that knowledge? How is she different from the person she once was? I certainly felt like nothing in her had changed. ...more This book is like NOTHING I have ever read before. It is very refreshing and wity, and definitely for travel lovers. I liked the premise. It was sort of interesting and cute. Dead Aunt sends niece on this unpredictable and slightly loony journey. (maybe not so cute). One very similar to the one that her aunt took when she felt a little lost and was dealing with a bit of a reality check. 17 year old Ginny doesn't think twice about it. She jets to her first destination, London. From there on it's one big ride. She goes through many experiences, and although it's a decent read, I just was not in love with the boo I liked the premise. It was sort of interesting and cute. Dead Aunt sends niece on this unpredictable and slightly loony journey. (maybe not so cute). One very similar to the one that her aunt took when she felt a little lost and was dealing with a bit of a reality check. 17 year old Ginny doesn't think twice about it. She jets to her first destination, London. From there on it's one big ride. She goes through many experiences, and although it's a decent read, I just was not in love with the book. I mean, I finished it fairly quickly. It never lagged, and I might even say that it was slightly engrossing. But it didn't feel all that memorable. The love interest? A bit of a jerk, not to mention a major bore. I could not for the life of me figure out what she saw in the guy. I also found her confession - regarding her falling for him, rather random, too. I actually recall getting into the book, but by the time I had finished it, I was kind of underwhelmed. Also, I didn't really connect with any characters. I felt lack of depth might have had something to to with it. I liked it, I just didn't love it. Oh, and the holiday is going rather well so far. A little homesick, but nothing I can't handle ;) ...more If you've ever been to Europe, thought about going to Europe, wanted to go about Europe or even heard of Europe...you'll love this book. It's a quick, fun summer read. Very clever and warm-hearted. I love the characters, the plot and just everything about it. It always keeps you guessing. One of my favourites. Maureen never lets me down. Reviewed by Dena Landon for TeensReadToo.com When <---C>Virginia Blackstone (Ginny)</---C> receives the first blue envelope from her Aunt Peg in the mail, it sends her on an exciting, funny, and sometimes poignant adventure that readers will be delighted to join. The envelope contains $1,000 in cash, and the instructions to pick up a package of envelopes that start Ginny on a trip around Europe, tracing the steps of her eccentric Aunt. The instructions are specific; no cell phones, no maps, and Ginny can only Reviewed by Dena Landon for TeensReadToo.com When Virginia Blackstone (Ginny) receives the first blue envelope from her Aunt Peg in the mail, it sends her on an exciting, funny, and sometimes poignant adventure that readers will be delighted to join. The envelope contains $1,000 in cash, and the instructions to pick up a package of envelopes that start Ginny on a trip around Europe, tracing the steps of her eccentric Aunt. The instructions are specific; no cell phones, no maps, and Ginny can only open one envelope at a time, after she's completed each task in the previous letter. Through the letters, Ginny learns more about what drove her Aunt to flee to Europe in pursuit of her art, and about her Aunt's last year of life, since Aunt Peg has passed away from a brain tumor by the time the first envelope arrives--and Ginny never got to say good-bye. Through her adventures, Ginny learns a lot about herself. Her own strength and ingenuity, her ability to forgive, and that she, too, can be an interesting person. Some of the tasks seem impossible; find the one caf\u00e9 in all of Paris where her Aunt spent a month sleeping behind the bar and decorating the caf\u00e9 to pay her rent. Others are easier, at least on the surface; find a starving artist and be his mysterious benefactor. Readers will both laugh at some of Ginny's mishaps and cringe at some of her mistakes as the envelopes lead her around Europe. Peopled with a strong cast of supporting characters--the cute playwright she meets in London, the annoying family of Americans with a \"schedule\" in Amsterdam, the crazy artist friends of her Aunt--the novel unfolds at a fast pace, while never losing its poignancy as Ginny retraces the steps of the Aunt she loved. Ms. Johnson has written an excellent and entertaining novel that I highly recommend. ...more See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads Mini mini review 13 Little Blue Envelopes is a quick, light read that will intrigue young readers from the first page. This 'road trip novel' is filled with adventure and a cute romance. Maureen Johnson manages to pull off an entertaining story in 300 pages that may not fulfil older readers' expectations. Looking at the Goodreads shelves for 13 Little Blue Envelopes, I'm quite positive that this should actually be under 'Middle Grade'. Now I love the MG genr See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads Mini mini review 13 Little Blue Envelopes is a quick, light read that will intrigue young readers from the first page. This 'road trip novel' is filled with adventure and a cute romance. Maureen Johnson manages to pull off an entertaining story in 300 pages that may not fulfil older readers' expectations. Looking at the Goodreads shelves for 13 Little Blue Envelopes, I'm quite positive that this should actually be under 'Middle Grade'. Now I love the MG genre, in fact, my top two authors are MG writers, so my level of expectation for a MG novel is set at the stars. 13LBE most definitely did my reach my standards. There were so many holes in the plot and the main character was so oblivious and annoying. While I thought the plot line was excellent, the way it was executed was horridly poor. All in all, I am not a big fan of Maureen's novel, it was my first one by her, and probably the last. Everything seemed to childish and just not for me. MG people can try this but MG readers may dispute this as it had nothing too remarkable or anything that screamed depth. ...more Ginger \"Ginny\" Blackstone, a seventeen-year-old college-bound girl, receives a letter from her deceased aunt instructing her to pick up a package from her former apartment. The package contains twelve additional envelopes, numbered two through thirteen. As per her aunt's insistence, Ginny must open an envelope only after completing the task from the previous envelope. The first envelope sends her to London with no money, cell phone, computer or guidebook. Ginny begins her adventure. I honestly w Ginger \"Ginny\" Blackstone, a seventeen-year-old college-bound girl, receives a letter from her deceased aunt instructing her to pick up a package from her former apartment. The package contains twelve additional envelopes, numbered two through thirteen. As per her aunt's insistence, Ginny must open an envelope only after completing the task from the previous envelope. The first envelope sends her to London with no money, cell phone, computer or guidebook. Ginny begins her adventure. I honestly wanted to enjoy this book much more than I did. But I hated the fact that a young girl imprudently travels to unfamiliar regions and places herself in some precarious situations. Though I understand the aunt's desire for Ginny to follow in her footsteps by traveling throughout Europe on a journey of self-discovery, I think it was improper for the aunt to posthumously impose her will in attempt to pave Ginny's destiny. But aside from that personal gripe, I didn't really care for any of the characters, especially Keith. I can't understand why Ginny cared so much for him in such a short period. The only character I liked is Richard, who was sweet, sensible and helpful. Nor did I find the story particularly enthralling, either, until the ending. I will read the second book to see if it can drastically change my mind about this story.... ...more This book would be more aptly marketed as a book about what NOT to do on a trip abroad rather than a YA quasi-adventure/quasi-romance. The most common emotion it drew out of me was annoyance. What parent lets their 17-year-old child go to Europe alone WITH NO SUPPLIES? No parents, that's who. Ginny wasn't properly equipped to travel the way she did. She talks to strangers, goes back to apartments with random people, just walks around some places at night, and leaves her crap unattended like it i This book would be more aptly marketed as a book about what NOT to do on a trip abroad rather than a YA quasi-adventure/quasi-romance. The most common emotion it drew out of me was annoyance. What parent lets their 17-year-old child go to Europe alone WITH NO SUPPLIES? No parents, that's who. Ginny wasn't properly equipped to travel the way she did. She talks to strangers, goes back to apartments with random people, just walks around some places at night, and leaves her crap unattended like it is her job. I'm surprised she didn't end up in a child sex trafficking ring. No, seriously, I am. Her \"romance\" with Keith (who is named Keith these days? I think all Keiths should just be born into middle-age) is weak and pretty unbelievable. We find out basically nothing about the main character, she shows no growth, and the ending is lame. The best part about the entire book is the backstory of Richard and Peg. Richard was likable and seemed realistic. I just don't get it, though: The parents of this child allowed her to go \"all over the world\" with no cell phone, camera, traveler's checks, no money (until she gets some in London, but they would never know that because she can't make any phone calls home), and NO CONTACTS. And we are supposed to believe this? I can't get my eyebrows to come back down even while I write this review. The reason it gets 2 stars instead of 1 is because I love European adventures and it was mildly entertaining. But I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. ...more I really wanted to read this book while I was in China because it has to do with travel. I was traveling, Ginny was traveling - it seemed the thing to do. I read it in two days, as well, which is saying something. But still, there was something lacking for me in this novel. First, I'll admit that this is definitely a fast-paced read. I was never bored with the story. The constant change of setting kept the book clipping along at a pretty breakneck speed. Ginny visits a crazy amount of countries i I really wanted to read this book while I was in China because it has to do with travel. I was traveling, Ginny was traveling - it seemed the thing to do. I read it in two days, as well, which is saying something. But still, there was something lacking for me in this novel. First, I'll admit that this is definitely a fast-paced read. I was never bored with the story. The constant change of setting kept the book clipping along at a pretty breakneck speed. Ginny visits a crazy amount of countries in this 350-page novel, including England, Scotland, Greece, France, Denmark, and Italy, to name a few. But with this constant change of scenery, I never truly felt connected with any of the characters, not even Ginny herself. There's little said about our protagonist before we're thrown into this grand adventure that her insane aunt sends her on. Even at the end of the book, I didn't feel like I really knew much about Ginny or her character motivation. And what kind of crazy parents would allow their teenage daughter to gallivant around Europe unchaperoned and with no contact? I had a really hard time swallowing that. Really, the only character we learn much about is Ginny's aunt, and only through her letters and what Ginny says about her. Honestly, I felt like there was more narration devoted to the aunt than Ginny herself. But this wasn't supposed to be a book about Ginny's aunt; it was supposed to be about Ginny. Right? Then there's the \"romance.\" I put quotation marks around it because it never really felt like a true romance to me. There was pretty much zero chemistry, and the love interest isn't really that essential to the story. He pops up in England, then again in Paris, and we never really see him again until the very end. It was weird. And Ginny's one-minute stand with an Italian at his house? Even weirder. I wasn't on board with the lackluster romance. But all that being said, it was an interesting book. I love travel and creative nonfiction travel journal-esque things, so I was interested and kept reading simply because of that aspect. I've never been to Europe, so I enjoyed the descriptions and experiencing everything for the first time, right along with Ginny. I just wish that I had gotten to know the characters better. The Last Little Blue Envelope was released recently, and I think I'll probably read that one. But it's certainly not at the top of my list. I just want to know what the stupid final letter says! ...more Yeah, it's unrealistic: no parents would send their daughter off for a month with no contact, especially if she's never travelled before. But... who really cares? It's a fairy tale. A lot of the travel stuff *was* very authentic and struck a very strong chord with me. The only thing I really missed were the Canadians, although she definitely got the Taking Up With Random Australians thing. I think it would be a great book to read before traveling, or while traveling. Excellent travel feel, with Yeah, it's unrealistic: no parents would send their daughter off for a month with no contact, especially if she's never travelled before. But... who really cares? It's a fairy tale. A lot of the travel stuff *was* very authentic and struck a very strong chord with me. The only thing I really missed were the Canadians, although she definitely got the Taking Up With Random Australians thing. I think it would be a great book to read before traveling, or while traveling. Excellent travel feel, with just enough romance and mystery to keep you interested. ...more I listened to this book as an audio book during my drive to New Orleans which made me dislike the book even more (I didn't enjoy the reader's voice). I enjoyed the book in the beginning but soon felt like the story was dragging and every country visited after Paris was unnecessary. I also didn't really like any character in this book, they had no depth and weren't interesting or likable. The concept of this book was so intriguing but I was disappointed. I felt that this was only an okay book from Maureen Johnson and that it paled in comparison to my favorite from her, Girl at Sea. There was a good plotline that promised adventure and romance in a foreign country that I was dissappointed to find did not exist. While it was an excellent idea, I felt the story did not develop well enough and it didn't go too in-depth. This book could have been better written but otherwise, still a good read. 13 Little Blue Envelopes by Maureen Johnson is a modern day coming of age story. It centers around Virginia 'Ginny' Blackstone, a 17 year old girl who is given a letter in a blue envelope. The letter tells her to fly to London, but she can't bring any crutches. What ensues is a fantastic adventure. Read the rest of my review here Basic Info Format: Audio Pages/Length: 6hrs and 52mins. Genre: Young Adult; Contemporary. At A Glance Love Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Insta. Cliff Hanger: Eh. Triggers: n/a Rating: 2 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 7 Characters: 6 World Building: 5 Flow: 5 Series Congruity: n/a Writing: 6 Ending: 6 Total: 5 In Dept Best Part: Paris! Worst Part: Boringggg. Thoughts Had: really!; that's how you get raped!; boredddddd. Conclusion Continuing the Series: eh Recommending: eh Short Review: Okay every tim Basic Info Format: Audio Pages/Length: 6hrs and 52mins. Genre: Young Adult; Contemporary. At A Glance Love Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Insta. Cliff Hanger: Eh. Triggers: n/a Rating: 2 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 7 Characters: 6 World Building: 5 Flow: 5 Series Congruity: n/a Writing: 6 Ending: 6 Total: 5 In Dept Best Part: Paris! Worst Part: Boringggg. Thoughts Had: really!; that's how you get raped!; boredddddd. Conclusion Continuing the Series: eh Recommending: eh Short Review: Okay every time i read about a girl just going to Europe all by themselves, i just cringe. That is how girls get either raped or sold in sex trades or murdered, but no, not in the fiction world. In the fiction world you ALWAYS meet some boy who just drops everything to show you around and be your \"guide\". GAG. Glad she doesn't even think to Google the conversion of pounds to dollars before spending all her money. The story is just too much to believe for me. Misc. Book Boyfriend: Nope. Best Friend Material: N/A Review in GIF Form: ...more After hearing a lot of praise surrounding Maureen Johnson, I decided to give one of her books ago. Admittedly I chose 13 Little Blue Envelopes as it happened to be cheap in the Kindle Store, knowing little about the book I plunged straight in with high expectations. These were dashed remarkably quickly. Our heroine, Ginny, is ridiculous from the beginning. Perhaps it is because that is all we know of her, her name. Despite assurances that Ginny's mother is strictly disapproving, especially of h After hearing a lot of praise surrounding Maureen Johnson, I decided to give one of her books ago. Admittedly I chose 13 Little Blue Envelopes as it happened to be cheap in the Kindle Store, knowing little about the book I plunged straight in with high expectations. These were dashed remarkably quickly. Our heroine, Ginny, is ridiculous from the beginning. Perhaps it is because that is all we know of her, her name. Despite assurances that Ginny's mother is strictly disapproving, especially of her wayward free spirit of a younger sister, she doesn't seem to mind that her daughter takes off on a back-packing trip across Europe with only the \"there in spirit\" of her dead aunt. Furthermore, it becomes apparent all too quickly that Ginny herself is ill equipped to take a trip across the continent. Being British it was almost painful to read Johnson's descriptions of London and continual failings in her research. Ginny is confused by the smallest things, including our (shock, horror) abnormally shaped money, ATM machines and public transport. Clearly not a girl who should go traipsing around Europe and getting into cars with strangers. It isn't just Ginny who is ill equipped for Europe however, Johnson herself clearly wouldn't get by with her continual incorrect details about the countries her character visits. ...more The concept of the story, and especially the way the story unfolded, was so preposterous that it makes Twilight realistic. Seventeen year old Ginny receives 13 envelopes from her aunt, and needs to follow the instructions one at a time. This involves going to Europe and getting into stupid situations that miraculously resolve themselves. The first quarter of the story wasn't bad. The envelope containing Ginny's instructions to help an artist through donating a generous gift, were described with The concept of the story, and especially the way the story unfolded, was so preposterous that it makes Twilight realistic. Seventeen year old Ginny receives 13 envelopes from her aunt, and needs to follow the instructions one at a time. This involves going to Europe and getting into stupid situations that miraculously resolve themselves. The first quarter of the story wasn't bad. The envelope containing Ginny's instructions to help an artist through donating a generous gift, were described with believable build-up to the resolution, through details from the author and Ginny making decisions that made sense. But then it was just downhill into stupidity. Situations that were so unbelievable, but not in a sense that was supposed to be humorous, just finding an easy way to explain away the chapter and move onto the next envelope. Plus Ginny was very two dimensional. I do not recommend this book at all. ...more This was a book which seems to have sat on my Kindle forever, and kept on being pushed further down the list of to-read books, as more were added. Somehow I managed to reorder the dates so that the oldest books appeared first on the list, with this book being near the top as a consequence. I have to admit to being pleasantly surprised by this book, and by the author who was previously unknown to me. There was nothing about the book that I disliked, it was very well planned out with wonderful char This was a book which seems to have sat on my Kindle forever, and kept on being pushed further down the list of to-read books, as more were added. Somehow I managed to reorder the dates so that the oldest books appeared first on the list, with this book being near the top as a consequence. I have to admit to being pleasantly surprised by this book, and by the author who was previously unknown to me. There was nothing about the book that I disliked, it was very well planned out with wonderful characters.It certainly wasn't the type of book that I would opt to read, but I am so glad that I did. It follows the path of Ginny (Virginia Blackstock) as she follows the directions left in 13 little blue envelopes. These had been sent to her by her runaway Aunt, who had died of a brain tumour.As Ginny follows these letters, not only does she discover more about her Aunt, but it also helps her to discover more about herself. ...more J'ai emprunt\u00e9 ce livre \u00e0 la biblioth\u00e8que car je me souvenais l'avoir lu lorsque j'\u00e9tais adolescente. Mais impossible de me souvenir de l'histoire et du d\u00e9nouement ! J'ai beaucoup aim\u00e9 l'histoire des petites enveloppes et de la qu\u00eate que m\u00e8ne Ginny. Je suis persuad\u00e9e que ce type d'aventure ne peut que faire grandir et faire prendre du recul sur la vie que nous menons. Je pense que je r\u00eave secr\u00e8tement de r\u00e9aliser ce type de voyage initiatique.. Petit b\u00e9mol sur l'\u00e9criture un peu trop \"simplette\". J' J'ai emprunt\u00e9 ce livre \u00e0 la biblioth\u00e8que car je me souvenais l'avoir lu lorsque j'\u00e9tais adolescente. Mais impossible de me souvenir de l'histoire et du d\u00e9nouement ! J'ai beaucoup aim\u00e9 l'histoire des petites enveloppes et de la qu\u00eate que m\u00e8ne Ginny. Je suis persuad\u00e9e que ce type d'aventure ne peut que faire grandir et faire prendre du recul sur la vie que nous menons. Je pense que je r\u00eave secr\u00e8tement de r\u00e9aliser ce type de voyage initiatique.. Petit b\u00e9mol sur l'\u00e9criture un peu trop \"simplette\". J'aurai aim\u00e9 que chaque exp\u00e9rience soit davantage explor\u00e9e, comme si chaque \u00e9tape \u00e9tait un trop vite boucl\u00e9e..Mais le livre s'adresse \u00e0 un public jeune en m\u00eame temps :) Bref ce fut une lecture sympathique, quelques semaines plus tard je me lance dans le deuxi\u00e8me tome. ...more This was a light, fluffy read which I particularly enjoyed. I really liked the characters- they had a sense of depth to them and each place that the heroine travelled to was described in a specific way that made it really easy for me to visualise the scene. Overall, I think it deserves 3 stars. Todo el mundo deber\u00eda tener una t\u00eda Peg en su vida que la hiciese quitarse de lo f\u00e1cil, sencillo y que la ense\u00f1ase a ver las cosas desde otra perspectiva....Me ha cautivado, de lo mejor de literatura juvenil este a\u00f1o This book was very good! I loved reading about her journey! She met a bunch of interesting people along the way. I love the idea of this book. I can't wait to read the next one! Ongecompliceerde YA roman...ik heb genoten...op het strand in de zon!! RATING: 1.5 stars (barely). Let's see if I can piece together some sort of review for this book. But I must warn you now: it's not going to be objective and I suspect it is more of a rant then a review. Imagine that you're a 17-year-old, completely average and normal American girl who just happens to have a fun but somewhat crazy [favourite] aunt. Said aunt decides suddenly to leave her New York flat and the next thing you (the teenager) and your family know she is dead. Then an envelope comes for RATING: 1.5 stars (barely). Let's see if I can piece together some sort of review for this book. But I must warn you now: it's not going to be objective and I suspect it is more of a rant then a review. Imagine that you're a 17-year-old, completely average and normal American girl who just happens to have a fun but somewhat crazy [favourite] aunt. Said aunt decides suddenly to leave her New York flat and the next thing you (the teenager) and your family know she is dead. Then an envelope comes for you (annoying little and blue) and it's from your aunt and she wants you to grab the 1000 dollars in the envelope and buy a ticket to London. And you just... go. Why? I don't know. A letter comes for you, out-of-the-blue asking you, a teenager, to go from America to Europe with only a backpack and a set of written instructions. I'm sure everyone must have realized what the problem with this entire story line is. Yep. I doubt there are many parents out there who would let their teenage daughter just catch a plane to Europe with no money, barely any clothes and no cell phone . What? I mean, what ? I just didn't buy it. And the fact thar there was no conversation between the main character (Ginny) and her parents at all didn't make it any better, obviously. Still this is fiction. This is teen fiction. I was willing to suspend my disbelief at this completely wacky plot line. Maybe something interesting would happen. But it didn't. The entire book is just about Ginny (Virginia) who is possibly one of the most dull protagonists ever (just like Finley, remember her?) running around all over Europe with a backpack, very little cash and no maps. I could suspend my disbelief no longer; 13 Little Blue Envelopes just didn't work. It was implausible, random and in spite of all the descriptions of European cities, boring. Any self-respecting person, teenager or not would be annoyed that their aunt was apparently making them travel all over for no discernible or logical reason, but not Ginny. Since she is dull, as I mentioned above and just devoid of any personality whatsoever she meekly followed all the crazy instructions in the various envelopes and I was honestly surprised she didn't get lost and/or wasn't repeatedly robbed or beaten up for the contents of her backpack. Johnson's descriptions of Europe are flawed, as if it is some sort of magical land where nothing wrong ever happens. Oh, sure, Ginny has some problems but somehow they get solved in the most fantastic and unrealistic ways: like, when she didn't have a place to stay, an American family just happened to find her and invite her to stay with them. Of course, no teen novel is complete without a romantic interest. Ginny falls for Keith, an English wannabe-actor (at first sight, of course). They keep running into each other (either because they're going the same way or because he decides to show up where she is, at random, as if traveling through Europe costs no money at all) but don't ever know each other very well. But they are still in luurve. In the end there was no point to the whole exercise. Ginny traveled, met a few people and went back home. She didn't change much (or if she did, we're never told). Overall: this book was... not very good. It was pointless, dull and random. The main character was not interesting at all, her quest was annoying vapid and unrealistic and in the end nothing changed. The whole setting was too implausible for words. When I compare this book to the recent YA paranormal fiction I read and find the fantasy books more believable than this one then something is definitely wrong. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, teenagers or adults. There is just too much in this book that doesn't work. ...more GACK. I AM SO CONFLICTED ABOUT THIS BOOK. (Random Fun Fact: This is my 13th book I have read in 2011. And I didn't even plan that. EHEHEH.) Anyway, the reason for the confliction is that in the first three-fourths of this book, I could hardly stand it. However, I actually enjoyed the last fourth. The reason for this was that the main character underwent a character change from an idiotic girl with no personality to one who would actually be fun to talk to. I think the author was getting annoyed at GACK. I AM SO CONFLICTED ABOUT THIS BOOK. (Random Fun Fact: This is my 13th book I have read in 2011. And I didn't even plan that. EHEHEH.) Anyway, the reason for the confliction is that in the first three-fourths of this book, I could hardly stand it. However, I actually enjoyed the last fourth. The reason for this was that the main character underwent a character change from an idiotic girl with no personality to one who would actually be fun to talk to. I think the author was getting annoyed at her own character, and decided to abruptly change her. Because that always works. In all, reading this book was a like a nice wake-up call. I've been reading a lot of amazing books lately (there's a reason classics are classics, ya know), and I was afraid that I was getting too lenient with my reviews. This book reminded me how... less than amazing some books are. But then it was tied off with a satisfying ending to make everyone feel better. In the beginning, to prove her intelligence (sarcasm hand), Ginny sets off on a plane to Europe with no money or means of communication under the cryptic instructions of her rather nutty ( (view spoiler) [oh, and also dead (hide spoiler) ] ) aunt. Early in the story, it becomes clear that Ginny has a serious problem: a complete lack of knowledge of the meaning of \"STRANGER DANGER\". Yes, Ginny, the term \"stranger\" does apply to college-aged foreign guys who take you to their remote houses within ten minutes of meeting you. Believe it or not. Can someone please also explain to me why the most interesting guy in the book falls head-over-heels for this gal, when he could have a more interesting conversation with the wall? Oh, crap. Wait, guys, this is reminding me of a certain other fictional character we all know and love... hmm... let's think here... BITCH YOU AIN'T NO SWAN QUEEN. AND BY SWAN QUEEN, I MEAN BELLA SWAN. ^ Okay, that didn't really have to do with anything. I just wanted to put that picture in here somewhere. ( DFTBAExpressions , anyone? ._.) But seriously. After a while, I was definitely picturing Ginny as the infamous Isabella. She doesn't whine quite as much, though. Well, she does complain about a short bicycle ride. And having to go to the Colosseum, which she basically describes as \"a bunch of ancient-looking columns and a building with arches.\" And everything seems to embarrass her (her touristy clothing, her shoes, her backpack, her hair, the people she's with, etc.). Oh, crap. CRAP CRAP CRAP. You guys, we have a clone! (The one bad thing about reading on a Kindle is that you can't exactly throw the book at the wall. A soft cushion, maybe.) Okay, so then why am I giving this book three stars? (Actually, it's more like 2.5. Maybe 2.7.) Because it was a cute story . It had likable characters, except for the main one. I liked the ending. The envelopes idea was fun. It was a nice read, if you are in the mood for a cute little book that you really shouldn't think too much about. And now I must go. Kbai. (Epic ending is epic.)[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This is my first review on here, and after reading a few last night, I have to say that I doubt mine will be as intellectual as others' may be. Just saying, in case you're expecting something spectacularly detailed. 13 Little Blue Envelopes is a story I can't sum up without rambling a little. It's all about a girl called Ginny, 17-years-old, who recieves 13 envelopes (blue ones, of course) from her Aunt Peg, who has died. She's informed (through letter) that she has to leave for a few weeks, trav This is my first review on here, and after reading a few last night, I have to say that I doubt mine will be as intellectual as others' may be. Just saying, in case you're expecting something spectacularly detailed. 13 Little Blue Envelopes is a story I can't sum up without rambling a little. It's all about a girl called Ginny, 17-years-old, who recieves 13 envelopes (blue ones, of course) from her Aunt Peg, who has died. She's informed (through letter) that she has to leave for a few weeks, travel to foreign places, and follow the rules which are: Rule #1: You may bring only what fits in your backpack. Don't try to fake it with a purse or a carry-on. Rule #2: You may not bring guidebooks, phrase books, or any kind of foreign language aid. And no journals. Rule #3: You cannot bring extra money or credit/debit cards, traveler's checks, etc. I'll take care of all that. Rule #4: No electronic crutches. This means no laptop, no cell phone, no music, and no camera. You can't call home or communicate with people in the U.S. by Internet or telephone. Postcards and letters are acceptable and encouraged. Generally that's the story - of her journey if you will, and what happens along the way, who she meets, that whole idea. Now, at first, I was really pleased to own the book. I'd been told a few times that it was great so when I spotted it randomly in a bookstore (it wasn't one of those books I'd heard of and had just had to get my hands on there and then) I bought it and was pretty - cringe! - excited to get home and get lost into it, like I always am with a book I think will be awesome. It wasn't what I presumed at all. I'm unsure on what I was expecting . . . but it wasn't how I'd predicted in the slightest. I could see what Maureen Johnson had been trying to create - and oui, oui, it was a tres fantastic storyline - yet I didn't think she captured it as well as she probably could have. One of the main reasons why I never truly fell in love with it like I was so sure I would of was the characters. Feel free to argue if you disagree with me, but did anybody else not find the people in the book flat and unrealistic? I perceived Ginny, who was obviously the main one, as having no personality - dull, bland. There wasn't a huge description on her, and one is not always needed, only there was never anything to bring her to life. It basically sort of gives you her name, age and what's happening: the story revolves around this big \"adventure\" that she's going on from following what the letters say. And the second thing that made me dislike it a tad was the fact that the \"adventure\" turned out to be un adventurous. It was as if I'd been waiting for something dramatic and bold and exciting to burst out and it turned out, that wasn't the case at all. Considering the big journey Ginny starts is important to the book as it's all it's about, I was hoping for something a lot more . . . you know. Nothing fascinated me in the book. I could tell it was meant to be heart-warming and upsetting at some points, I just didn't feel it myself. All in all it's an \"okay\" book (I would say), and others may enjoy it a lot more than me. ...more Ok, this book NOT my usual kind of read since I most definitely, absolutely and completely tend to avoid romance shick-lit like the Black Plague. However, THIS was One. Interesting. Read. And I'm reconsidering my anti-light-reads-literature stand. I got through the whole book in 2 days, which for busy little me is quite a feat, but this book is surprisingly readable, relatively short and extremely down-unputtable... [me gosh, what a mangled verb] The plot is basically Eat, Pray, Love for angsty t Ok, this book NOT my usual kind of read since I most definitely, absolutely and completely tend to avoid romance shick-lit like the Black Plague. However, THIS was One. Interesting. Read. And I'm reconsidering my anti-light-reads-literature stand. I got through the whole book in 2 days, which for busy little me is quite a feat, but this book is surprisingly readable, relatively short and extremely down-unputtable... [me gosh, what a mangled verb] The plot is basically Eat, Pray, Love for angsty teens as one of my friends put it in a perfect nutshell. Ginny, or Virginia, receives 13 envelopes from her batty-but-lovable artistic aunt who sends her on a wild goose chase across Europe to find herself and important people in the aunt's life, gain knowledge, stumble upon love unexpectedly [duh] and solve little mysteries along the way. It does seem a little cliche and the ending-hopelessly predictable, but it is refreshing and unusual at the same time, because Maureen Johnson has a talent for making places and people come to life with all kinds of little quirks and details. I approved of her ability to create a perfect image of every country with spot-on descriptions, especially those of Rome and Paris. And I must admit that Keith really was an intriguing character. And something that surprised me to no ends was that the ending was not mushy or hopelessly sweet and Hollywood-ian.... So, kudos for that. I guess I must explain why I only gave it a 3/5 marking. I technically would have given it a 3.5, but Goodreads doesn't allow that, and I am rather strict when it comes to book ratings. I took a star off for the fact that [sorry-another rant] this is not my typical read, and another one [half a star actually, but never mind] for the fact that it's a slightly predictable teen book. Other than that-it's a great read. The laugh-out-loud moments were genuine and unforced-so-bonus points for the author. Dialogues and misunderstandings and unfortunate problems were also incredibly realistic and made it ever so easy to imagine myself in Ginny's place, reacting to life in the same way. And awkward, often lost and confused Ginny managed to touch a little awkward, often lost and confused part of me. While I'm pretty sure my family wouldn't have been as understanding if I were to tell them I'm going across the globe by myself at 16, I most certainly would have wanted to-and hell, I still do. So, even though I don't have a mad aunt [as far as I know] nor enough funds to travel the world [for now], I'll keep waiting for my own set of 13 little, blue envelopes to scurry across the globe for and remind myself that magical things do happen. ...more", "Title": "13 Little Blue Envelopes"},
