{"Comments": "I worked on the TV series and Movie Miami Vice with this author, <---A>T. Rafael Cimino</---A> (<---B>Todd to us</---B>). This book is so true to life, I don't know where to begin.<---F> A true talent, Mr</---F>. Cimino is an artist with his pen. Amazing detail of a life that I've lived and miss so much. I didn't get it. I know other reviewers rated it highly but I really struggled through this book. There was lots of info about boats and a huge cast of characters some of whom seemed to have little or no relevance to the story. It was a very intricate plot - unfortunately most of it didn't seem to lead anywhere. I couldn't see the purpose of much of the narrative. When I got to the end it was all very ho-hum, and what happened to all those characters? I didn't know and didn't care. I'm surprised I finished it. The writing was awful. The editing was non-existent. There were misspellings! The characters were not believable. The plot was ok, but there were irrelevant episodes and subplots that made no sense. Eh...... Lots of characters and character development that had nothing to do with the main story - made it tough to follow who was actually connected to the plot. Atlanta (my home town) being a setting for a small part of the book increased my interest - but reference to it \"snowing\" in Atlanta on more than one occasion during the course of the book soured that for me - we are lucky to get a single snow every few years or so. The author also attempted to inject light humor throughout the read th Eh...... Lots of characters and character development that had nothing to do with the main story - made it tough to follow who was actually connected to the plot. Atlanta (my home town) being a setting for a small part of the book increased my interest - but reference to it \"snowing\" in Atlanta on more than one occasion during the course of the book soured that for me - we are lucky to get a single snow every few years or so. The author also attempted to inject light humor throughout the read that fell flat, just not very connected and believable. I wanted to like this book being a fan of the Miami Vice era and books associated with it. I rarely give a 5-star or a 1-star. this one pushed the envelope as close as it can get for me to a 1-star rating. Some seem to like it greatly - didn't happen for me. ...more I could almost feel the salt spray coming over the bow of the boat as a read \"<+++>Mid Ocean</+++>\" by T. Rafael Cimino. The author's depiction of 1984 South Florida is flawless. In an age that transformed this part of the country and defined a decade, <+++>Mid Ocean</+++> hits the nail on the head with blow by blow prose that grabs the reader and doesn't let go until the last page. Mid Ocean was written by ex-Miami Vice (TV Series) writer,<---M> marine director</---M>, T. Rafael Cimino and his in depth portrayal of the drug smug I could almost feel the salt spray coming over the bow of the boat as a read \"Mid Ocean\" by T. Rafael Cimino. The author's depiction of 1984 South Florida is flawless. In an age that transformed this part of the country and defined a decade, Mid Ocean hits the nail on the head with blow by blow prose that grabs the reader and doesn't let go until the last page. Mid Ocean was written by ex-Miami Vice (TV Series) writer, marine director, T. Rafael Cimino and his in depth portrayal of the drug smuggling culture shines along side the backstory of love and betrayal. Mid Ocean is a must-read for anyone who has ever been to the Florida Keys or has a hankering for Jimmy Buffet and the lifestyle that singer embodies. ...more Well there you have it, only good looking girls like this. What more proof do you need, go get this book immediately pawn. Anything that gets me singing Smugglers Blues is good. My grandfather was a Venezuelan immigrant who came to Miami in the 70's. As a result this is where I was raised. I used to listen to all the stories of the drug dealing and smuggling and it wasn't until I read Mid Ocean that I had a truely graphic picture of what really happened. My own father was killed on 88th Street in a drug deal and this specific part of crime drama has a special place in my heart. Now I keep this book very close to me. Thank you to Mr. Cimino for writing it. Reading Mid Ocean was akin to jumping onto a movie set and becoming part of the story. It usually takes me several weeks to read a book of this length but once I began reading it I couldn't put it down. The portrayal of the drug trade era, south Florida and the surrounding environment of the time, was spot on. When I finished the last page I was a little sad...like parting with new friends. I hope a movie will be made from this book. I just received Table 21 and will begin a new adventure readin Reading Mid Ocean was akin to jumping onto a movie set and becoming part of the story. It usually takes me several weeks to read a book of this length but once I began reading it I couldn't put it down. The portrayal of the drug trade era, south Florida and the surrounding environment of the time, was spot on. When I finished the last page I was a little sad...like parting with new friends. I hope a movie will be made from this book. I just received Table 21 and will begin a new adventure reading Mr. Cimino's latest. ...more I was captivated by the first page and blown away with the ending. I am very critical of American fiction writers but found this book to be very realistic and straight forward. I understand that a film is in the works and cant wait for that to happen. I strongly recommend this book. I thought enough about this book to be on my second time around , to savor more details. I tend to read too fast (the good ones) Could not put it down either time Thank you T Rafael for the adventure. Keep on writing. Not what I thought it would be. A lot of characters that went no where. I really like this genre,but this story didn't fit into it. Guess I've been spoiled by book's like, Blow or Smokescreen. I've never written a book. So I will give the author credit for writing one I was always a fan of Miami Vice. Mid Ocean is the latest in this great storyline of drugs, cops and South Florida. When I found out the Author was a big part of the TV series it made this thrilling story that much better. A brilliant read. I know this author and am pleased to give my unbiased appraisal of his work. Cheers and much success my friend. This was really a fun read, its about the drug runners in Key West, the coast guard chasing them, about boats, boats, boats. Well written, but all of the technical boating terms were too much. Seems like it was filler. Also the ending left a lot to be desired, especially when it came to some of the \"villains.\" I love this author! Great stuff. I'm originally from South Florida and am a huge fan of Miami Vice which this author wrote part of. Waiting on more from him! I felt like I was cruising to the Bahamas in a 100 mile an hour Cigarette boat. This author's descriptive style are both inducing and mentally persuasive. A true instant classic! Shades of Miami Vice but based on true events! Drug smugglers and US Customs deal with each other in Florida and lots of twist and turns in the story. Enjoyed reading! This is the second book I've read from this author and I love his work. I am very selective and I give this book 5 stars because it's great.<---C>Mike West</---C>", "Title": "Mid Ocean"},
