{"Comments": "I have been debating whether to give this book one or two stars for a while now but,<---M> in all honesty</---M>, I did not like this book. I wanted to like this book, I struggled to get to the end to see if there was some redeeming last minute revelation but, alas, it never came. The story rotates around 4 women, - Allison, an ex convict, Brynn, her sister, Charm, a nurse to-be and Claire, a bookshop owner - a little boy and a terrible secret that seems to connect them all.<---F> I didn't see the terrible secret</---F>. I have been debating whether to give this book one or two stars for a while now but, in all honesty, I did not like this book. I wanted to like this book, I struggled to get to the end to see if there was some redeeming last minute revelation but, alas, it never came. The story rotates around 4 women, - Allison, an ex convict, Brynn, her sister, Charm, a nurse to-be and Claire, a bookshop owner - a little boy and a terrible secret that seems to connect them all. I didn't see the terrible secret. Not because it wasn't terrible but because it didn't seem that much of a secret to me. I know this novel was meant to address the issue of newborn children abandonment and promote Safe Haven program but I honestly think it could have been dealt much better in a pamphlet. Or something. This is what I'd call a book of stereotypes. All characters are so cut out from some pre-printed clich\u00e9 that this book gives a whole new nuance to the meaning bi-dimensional. As in made of paper. All characters are pushed to the excess, all black and white with no shades of grey. This is so not realistic. Allison is the monster who is secretly a saint, Brynn is the psycho, Claire is Perfect Mom, Charm is just plain St. Charm, Gus is the dying martyr. Charm's mother is the Bad mother and even Allison and Brynn's parents come out like \"the source of all evil\". This is less feasible than Urban Fantasy, for god's sake. Other characters like Christopher and the girl's Grandma are so barely sketched and superficially introduced that I didn't even understand their reason for being in the book. Aside from the stereotyping factor, there were some major inconsistencies in the book that had me in brow furrowing mode repeatedly. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ So this Allison girl lives in Linden Falls, Iowa - not New York, mind - and goes to jail for manslaughter for abandoning and drowning her newborn baby, fruit of a secret and illicit relationship with a college guy (Mr. X, he's so flat). Now, I live in a town of 30,000 people and I have no idea how bigger Linden Fall could be - i think it is a fictitious town - but I reckon it would take several hundreds of thousands more inhabitants, NOT to know who the mommy/murderer/teenage's identity is. Even if she's underage and her name hasn't been disclosed. If something horrible like what happened in the book happened here, not only would it go on national news but everybody in town would know who the girl is, the family, where they live. It's normal, people talk. But apparently, when Allison comes back to her town after a mere 5 years NOBODY recognizes her. She starts working in a bookshop and NOT ONE single client says: \"Hey, isn't that that child murderer girl......?\" NOBODY. This is a bit unlikely, considering she is repeatedly referred to as Linden Falls' golden girl, therefore popular, an overachiever. Then, in a weird attempt to create a shocker I think, Allison never mentions Joshua until she meets him and suddenly she can't think of anything else but him. That's too much of a humongous detail to overlook, isn't it? Which only makes me think of a cheap strategy concocted by the author to.... yeah, create a shocker. It didn't work, it felt like a black eye, it was so obvious. (hide spoiler) ] Furthermore, stylistically, the alternating 1st/3rd person POV didn't work for me. I'm not referring to the difficulty of keeping track of who was telling what because that was made pretty clear by the heading of each chapter. I'm referring to the continuous 1st/3rd person switching. First of all.... WHY? Why tell all Allison and Brynn's parts in 1st person and Claire and Charm's in 3rd? Was there some recondite meaning I totally didn't get? Second, it didn't work. The 1st person parts were ok but the 3rd person parts were awful, flat, devoid of personality.... pretty much like the characters. It was like reading a bad newspaper article. Finally, this book was just not for me. There was too much drama, too many people with issues crammed together in a single space, their greek drama was all over the place. Actually, it just dawned on me that, in a way, they all had their kind of psychosis going on. Even Perfect Mom. ...more <+++>These Things Hidden</+++> is all about secrets. As the story progresses, the past is revealed piece by piece. The story falls into place easily while offering shocking things, long hidden, yet never expected. The book is written in alternating viewpoints between four different women all linked in some way to a little boy named Joshua. Each woman wants to ensure Joshua is safe and taken care if, even if they have different ideas and motives driving them. The book begins with Allison being released from p <+++>These Things Hidden</+++> is all about secrets. As the story progresses, the past is revealed piece by piece. The story falls into place easily while offering shocking things, long hidden, yet never expected. The book is written in alternating viewpoints between four different women all linked in some way to a little boy named Joshua. Each woman wants to ensure Joshua is safe and taken care if, even if they have different ideas and motives driving them. The book begins with Allison being released from prison. She committed an unforgivable crime, the nature of which we don't learn until later in the book. Every bit of Allison's past is revealed at the perfect moment. Her story is traumatically heart-wrenching and you can't help but feel for her while at the same time hating her actions. The story is scarily realistic for the world we live in today. Bad choices ruin lives. Good choices can just as easily take their toll. Love for family and the secrets we keep can lead down a road we aren't prepared to travel. These Things Hidden is a moving, beautifully written, absolutely compelling novel you won't want to miss. ...more This book has been collecting dust on my shelf for far too long. Like a dental appointment, I kept putting it off, not sure why. Now I am sorry I waited so long for such a great read. Upon release from prison for a devastating crime, Allison attempts to reunite with her family and get her life back on track. This book unfolds from several points of view. Each character telling their own intriguing story, until the inevitable collision in the end. Love that!! Really enjoyed this book. Will defini This book has been collecting dust on my shelf for far too long. Like a dental appointment, I kept putting it off, not sure why. Now I am sorry I waited so long for such a great read. Upon release from prison for a devastating crime, Allison attempts to reunite with her family and get her life back on track. This book unfolds from several points of view. Each character telling their own intriguing story, until the inevitable collision in the end. Love that!! Really enjoyed this book. Will definitely read more from this author! ...more <---C>Allison Glenn</---C> has just been released from prison after serving five years for a terrible crime. Before Allison was sent to prison, she and her sister, Brynn were very close, but that all ended the night Allison was sent away as Brynn wanted nothing more to do with her sister. If dealing with what happened that night wasn't enough, Brynn also had to deal with kids staring and whispering behind her back. It was all becoming too much for Brynn, so her parents sent her to live with her grandmother w Allison Glenn has just been released from prison after serving five years for a terrible crime. Before Allison was sent to prison, she and her sister, Brynn were very close, but that all ended the night Allison was sent away as Brynn wanted nothing more to do with her sister. If dealing with what happened that night wasn't enough, Brynn also had to deal with kids staring and whispering behind her back. It was all becoming too much for Brynn, so her parents sent her to live with her grandmother where she could complete her schooling. Brynn has tried to forget about what happened to her sister five years ago, but now that her sister was out of prison, she knew all too well that it was about to haunt her all over again. These Things Hidden was a brilliant read and I found it difficult to put down. I found it to be fast paced, absorbing and emotional. A definite must read, in my opinion. Highly recommended. ...more <---A>Heather Gudenkauf</---A>\u2019s second novel deals with a difficult subject: murder. Told in first and third person by a quartet of female protagonists, it opens with Allison Glenn, the main protagonist who is getting out of prison after serving half of a ten-year sentence. Her lawyer, Devin, escorts her to a halfway house run by pragmatic-but tender-hearted Oleta. Allison wants desperately to put the past behind her and start anew but finds obstacles at every turn. Her sister, once a confidant, won\u2019t answe Heather Gudenkauf\u2019s second novel deals with a difficult subject: murder. Told in first and third person by a quartet of female protagonists, it opens with Allison Glenn, the main protagonist who is getting out of prison after serving half of a ten-year sentence. Her lawyer, Devin, escorts her to a halfway house run by pragmatic-but tender-hearted Oleta. Allison wants desperately to put the past behind her and start anew but finds obstacles at every turn. Her sister, once a confidant, won\u2019t answer the letters she\u2019s written; her parents want nothing to do with her, and it seems her reputation has preceded her because the other house residents taunt her with cruel notes and even more graphic reminders. Younger sister, Brynn, has struggled to get on with her life, but she has never measured up to the perfect older sister, the straight A student and athletic champion on a fast track to a stellar career as an attorney. In fact, Brynn finds getting on in school following her sister\u2019s imprisonment so traumatic that she tries to overdose on sleeping pills and is sent packing to her grandmother\u2019s. She\u2019s not the scholar her sister was, but she seeks a career working with companion animals. Claire Kelby runs a bookshop. With husband Jonathan, the infertile couple have adopted a baby boy five years earlier\u2013an infant abandoned at their local fire station. Joshua is a special little boy, loving, but with social issues. Attending kindergarten is a hard task for him, made even more difficult when the bookstore is robbed and his adoptive mother injured. Charm Tullia, just twenty years old, lives with her stepfather Gus, a retired fireman in the final stages of lung cancer. Charm cares deeply for Gus while juggling a nurses\u2019 training course at the local college and working part-time for Claire at the bookshop. Charm\u2019s mother is a love-em-and-leave-em woman living with one of a long succession of men, and her brother disappeared years ago. Gus is Charm\u2019s family and she nurtures him as best she can. Ms. Gudenkauf\u2019s story switches viewpoints between all four women. Each character has a voice and both good and bad traits that make them real to the reader. I identified less with Brynn, because she seemed the least capable of dealing with issues. The other three are strong, even in their weaknesses. Ms. Gudenkauf has a wonderful way of humanizing each of them to the point that I felt compelled to read on past my bedtime to see what would happen next. The connection of the women is best left to the reader to discover. Even when you unravel all the threads, the ending will surprise you. This is a skillfully crafted story with many threads, all neatly woven into an exciting and dramatic conclusion. Ms. Gudenkauf\u2019s present tense third person use is highly effective in this tale of loss and redemption. I look for more powerful stories from this clearly qualified new author. ...more Confession: I saw this on the shelf at work a couple years ago and thought it sounded interesting. Put it on my paperbackswap list and forgot about until I got the notification my request came in. Was in a bit of funk yesterday and grabbed this off my shelves on a whim.,hoping it would bring me out of it. Didn't read reviews of it before I started, just plunged in. It reminded me of 'Reconstructing Amelia' and 'Girl on the train' (both I loved) in the fact that the suspense and characters are wel Confession: I saw this on the shelf at work a couple years ago and thought it sounded interesting. Put it on my paperbackswap list and forgot about until I got the notification my request came in. Was in a bit of funk yesterday and grabbed this off my shelves on a whim.,hoping it would bring me out of it. Didn't read reviews of it before I started, just plunged in. It reminded me of 'Reconstructing Amelia' and 'Girl on the train' (both I loved) in the fact that the suspense and characters are well done and the story is told by multiple narrators. Like those, this one draws you in slowly and feeds you the answers bit by bit. At one point, I actually guessed right part of the story but it didn't bother me. I had a feeling though that the whole picture hadn't been painted quite yet. Gus, Charm's step-father touched my heart... such a good man. Charm I warmed up to, doing her best to take care of him and go to nursing school. Claire and Jonathan were sweethearts, Allison I didn't warm up to till later in the story. Joshua... that kid was adorable! How can your heart not melt for him?:) Each of these people is surrounded in a web of secrets and know only pieces of the puzzle. You can feel the web closing in on everyone as the story goes on, even if some of the players don't quite know why. Sometimes the dialogue was a bit stiff but the I never lost interest or wanted to throw the book at the wall. This one sucked me in from the start and made it hard for me to put down. (I even forgot to eat haha and only stopped to grab a snack when I felt dizzy). The ending with (view spoiler) [Brynn revealing what really happened that night by the river, and how she tried to save the baby girl after all. (hide spoiler) ] Wow, that final piece clicking into place... what happened with this person wasn't a surprise I guess and who knows if it could have been prevented? I didn't feel sad exactly but not pity either... if that makes sense. I'm not sure what to say here, it's a well crafted tale though and I would recommend it :). I don't know about it being for fans of 'gone girl' (that one wasn't for me) but if you loved the two books I mentioned at the beginning of my review and 'dangerous girls' by abigail haas this'll probably be right up your alley. Happy reading! 3.5-4 stars ...more All i can say is i absolutely recommend this book to all my lady friends you wont be disappointed this made me have mixed emotions Characters were dealing with real situations we all deal with every day will be reading more of this Author A tragic mystery that slowly reveals it self like peeling an onion. In the beginning I thought I had a handle on what was going on in the lives of the three young girls at the center of the story. Wrong... Needless to say, there are twists and turns that make you keep changing your feelings toward each character. Choices and fate seem to run along in the same lane for two sisters, an innocent bystander and a very lonley couple. The characters were believable and the narration was very good. This A tragic mystery that slowly reveals it self like peeling an onion. In the beginning I thought I had a handle on what was going on in the lives of the three young girls at the center of the story. Wrong... Needless to say, there are twists and turns that make you keep changing your feelings toward each character. Choices and fate seem to run along in the same lane for two sisters, an innocent bystander and a very lonley couple. The characters were believable and the narration was very good. This is not a feel good book and includes some very graphic situations. ...more Why was this on my TBR list? I must have read some review that made it sound interesting, and so I picked it at random at the library. At least I didn't pay money for it. This is a book about secrets and babies and mommy-love and bad parents and crazy. Perfect college-bound athlete Allison gets knocked up by a summer fling, manages to keep this secret from her parents, because they are caricatures of Bad and Superficial Parenting, and when she gives birth, with her flaky sister Brynn present, she Why was this on my TBR list? I must have read some review that made it sound interesting, and so I picked it at random at the library. At least I didn't pay money for it. This is a book about secrets and babies and mommy-love and bad parents and crazy. Perfect college-bound athlete Allison gets knocked up by a summer fling, manages to keep this secret from her parents, because they are caricatures of Bad and Superficial Parenting, and when she gives birth, with her flaky sister Brynn present, she ends up throwing her newborn baby into an ice-cold river to drown. The police find the infant's body, and Allison spends five years in prison before being released to a town that now hates her and parents and a sister that will have nothing to do with her. Though somehow hardly anyone in the small town recognizes the notorious baby-killing popular girl five years later. Yeah, right, like I totally believe this golden girl actually chucked her baby in a river. The author tries to play cagey with what really happened, but I could see the \"Big Reveal\" by the end of chapter two. I never made it past the first third of the book, but skimming other reviews, I can see that I was right. I can deal with a story about babies and mommy-love and teen secrets and so on, if it's actually suspenseful or well-written or has some twist that isn't branded Jodi Picoult or Oprah. These Things Hidden is pure breathless angst about baaaaayybeeeez. The point where I gave up because I couldn't stand the Oxygen Network voice anymore was the second chapter dealing with the B plot, a Perfect Couple (in contrast to Allison and Brynn's shitty parents) who tried and failed to conceive, then had to give up an adopted child to a birth mother who changed her mind. Oh woe and heartbreak! Then perfect, cherubic, beatific perfect little bright-eyed lovely perfect (did I mention perfect?) Joshua came into their lives, and thus I endured two solid chapters of flowing saccharine mommy-love and angst and cooing about wee precious little fingerprints and gods just shoot me now I could not take any more. The POV characters in this book are either angsty teen girl or angsty mommy. The plot was obviously heading straight into Jodi Picoult territory, with a dramatic and improbable twist that nonetheless anyone can see coming. I'm sorry, maybe one star is unfair because I'm just not the target audience and this was a did-not-finish , but honestly, it wasn't very well written, plot contrivances were already striking me as silly, and it's so very girly-girly that I had to go fondle some power tools and scratch inappropriately to erase the breathless histrionic narrator's voice from my head. ...more This is another Audible gem. They were having a \"Buy One, Get One\" sale, and These Things Hidden was my \"Get One\" book, chosen on a whim. But for that sale, I probably never would have read this. (I've been kind of unofficially avoiding YA lately, being sick of the love triangles and the YAPNR and the blah blah blah.) But had I missed this one, it would have been a shame, because this book is fantastic. I almost don't want to talk about the plot of the story at all, because I'm afraid of ruining This is another Audible gem. They were having a \"Buy One, Get One\" sale, and These Things Hidden was my \"Get One\" book, chosen on a whim. But for that sale, I probably never would have read this. (I've been kind of unofficially avoiding YA lately, being sick of the love triangles and the YAPNR and the blah blah blah.) But had I missed this one, it would have been a shame, because this book is fantastic. I almost don't want to talk about the plot of the story at all, because I'm afraid of ruining it. The way this is written, from four different perspectives, is perfect, and the story evolves in just the right way, at just the right pace. Each chapter reveals just a little more about what happened to land Allison in prison, and each chapter reveals just a little bit more about how one mistake in an otherwise perfect life can cause ever widening effect ripples in Allison's life, and her family's and community's lives. At the point when the crime was revealed, I was shocked and dismayed. Not only for the nature of the crime, but for how early in the story the revelation came. I remember thinking, \"Oh no... This is too early! The rest of the story is going to flop now that there's nothing left to wonder about.\" I was so wrong. Not only did those ripples keep widening and showing us more of the story of That Night, but the story was so compelling, so heartbreaking and so honest that I couldn't stop listening. I had to know what happened, and what would happen next. This is a relevant and gut-wrenching story about mistakes and their consequences, about decisions we make, and how they affect us and everyone around us. It's a story of second chances, responsibility, and how sometimes things go horribly, horribly wrong just when we think that everything is going perfectly, but that life goes on anyway. I feel like this is a book that needs to be read and re-read to really feel the full impact. My perceptions of the characters in the story kept shifting constantly, like mercury, but I never felt manipulated, which is the mark of a great writer, in my opinion. For an author to move me around like a chess piece but make me believe it's the board moving rather than my feet, they've made themselves a fan. This girl, right here. If I had anything to complain about, it was that the readers sometimes sounded a little stiff and choppy, but I'm not holding that against the book, because almost as soon as I'd notice the reader, she'd be gone again and I'd be drowning in the story. This book may not be for everyone, but for me, it was just what I didn't know I needed to pull me out of a summer long reading slump. This book reminded me why I love reading, and why sometimes the best things show up when we least expect them. ...more Trying to come up with words is almost impossible. I read The Weight of Silence quite awhile ago but I still think about it and talk about it. This one will be the same. I read different genres and enjoy them all, but I love fiction that could easily be fact. Allison's character was one of the biggest reasons why I enjoyed this book so much. Throughout the book I wanted to hate her, but something told me to be patient. It's rare that there is a character I hate to love, it's usually the other wa Trying to come up with words is almost impossible. I read The Weight of Silence quite awhile ago but I still think about it and talk about it. This one will be the same. I read different genres and enjoy them all, but I love fiction that could easily be fact. Allison's character was one of the biggest reasons why I enjoyed this book so much. Throughout the book I wanted to hate her, but something told me to be patient. It's rare that there is a character I hate to love, it's usually the other way around. There were twists and suprises that caught me a little off guard, which I appreciate. I tend to figure things out quickly and that can be disappointing. I was on my toes throughout and that is another reason why this book will be memorable for me. Again I will be thinking and talking about this story. I was recommending it before I even got fifty pages. Heather Gudenkauf has easily become one of my favorite authors. ...more This was a nice easy-reading book, and although I thought I figured out the ending quite early on, I was wrong. The reason it only gets a three start rating from me, is that I never felt that much empathy with any of the characters. If you want to try a book by the author, which was brilliant and reminded me a lot of Jodi Picoult's writing, I highly recommend One Breath Away The story: When her sister Allison, convicted of a heinous crime, is released from prison to a halfway house and is despera This was a nice easy-reading book, and although I thought I figured out the ending quite early on, I was wrong. The reason it only gets a three start rating from me, is that I never felt that much empathy with any of the characters. If you want to try a book by the author, which was brilliant and reminded me a lot of Jodi Picoult's writing, I highly recommend One Breath Away The story: When her sister Allison, convicted of a heinous crime, is released from prison to a halfway house and is desperate to speak with her, Brynn, unable to forget the past that haunts her, must keep the truth from being revealed due to unimaginable consequences ...more This won't be a long review. I can't find enough words to say about this drawn-out book. I suffered to the halfway point with this book, bored to tears wondering what the point of it all was. Not all books are thrilling page turners but both the plot and the characters fell flat in this for me in this one completely. It's put me off her other books although I know she has her fans and many loved this too. It failed to capture raw emotion that should have been there in this story and in a nutshell This won't be a long review. I can't find enough words to say about this drawn-out book. I suffered to the halfway point with this book, bored to tears wondering what the point of it all was. Not all books are thrilling page turners but both the plot and the characters fell flat in this for me in this one completely. It's put me off her other books although I know she has her fans and many loved this too. It failed to capture raw emotion that should have been there in this story and in a nutshell I found it tedious and gave up halfway through. Next.... Moving on. You can check out my reviews at: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat... ...more This is a must read. I LOVED this book! I couldn't put it down and I was just speechless upon completion. I was surprised at so many points while reading These Things Hidden and that doesn't happen often for me when reading a book. The author did an incredible job of slowly revealing secrets, piece by piece, and from various points of view. My heart broke for many of the characters. I truly felt for them all, although my feelings changed toward the end and I had the deepest compassion for one of This is a must read. I LOVED this book! I couldn't put it down and I was just speechless upon completion. I was surprised at so many points while reading These Things Hidden and that doesn't happen often for me when reading a book. The author did an incredible job of slowly revealing secrets, piece by piece, and from various points of view. My heart broke for many of the characters. I truly felt for them all, although my feelings changed toward the end and I had the deepest compassion for one of the characters. Just couldn't believe it... ...more Got this book for some mindless entertainment...To me, that's just what it was. It wasn't good...it wasn't bad...Won't tell you what it is about because you can read any other review or the book's jacket for that... It's like...you know...when you're flipping through the channels on the tellie and there is nada on...and you settle on some lifetime movie or something that's already been on for however long (who cares anyway?)just because you're tired of flipping and you know you can just keep flip Got this book for some mindless entertainment...To me, that's just what it was. It wasn't good...it wasn't bad...Won't tell you what it is about because you can read any other review or the book's jacket for that... It's like...you know...when you're flipping through the channels on the tellie and there is nada on...and you settle on some lifetime movie or something that's already been on for however long (who cares anyway?)just because you're tired of flipping and you know you can just keep flipping at any moment if ya want--no gain, no loss...just...ehhhh whaaaatever...You might keep watching for the heck of it...it's the same old story you've heard a dozen times...the same cliches...same characters that don't need any figuring out...the ones you could care less about...More than anything you notice something like--Hey, I have those running shoes... and you'll follow just enough to keep your eyes open a little longer...'cause...well, yeah--there's nothing else on and you need the TV noise to lull you to sleep...That's this book. ...more This was a crazy ride! At first I didn't know what was going on, what Allison had done that was so terrible. So I flew through the pages dying to know. In those pages I felt like I got to know Allison well enough that I couldn't imagine she had truly done something horrible. I couldn't imagine why everyone would be so hateful toward her. When I found out what her crime had been I just had to know WHY?! This book alternates characters. We go to know Allison, the center of it all and the one who ju This was a crazy ride! At first I didn't know what was going on, what Allison had done that was so terrible. So I flew through the pages dying to know. In those pages I felt like I got to know Allison well enough that I couldn't imagine she had truly done something horrible. I couldn't imagine why everyone would be so hateful toward her. When I found out what her crime had been I just had to know WHY?! This book alternates characters. We go to know Allison, the center of it all and the one who just got out of prison. We get to know her sister Brynn who is having a hard time dealing with her past, and her life in general. We get to know Charm who takes care of her stepfather as he dies and is going to school to be a nurse. Then we get to know Claire, the mother who adopted beautiful Joshua. We don't know how they all connect but as the story goes on we make connections. At times we assume things or put the puzzle together only to find out that the pieces don't fit. A little past the middle I thought it was all figured out. I wondered why the author let us know everything already and wondered if it was all going to just take a bit to wrap up. But nope~ we don't know everything. There is still so much more to the story and it is one crazy emotional ride! Through the first half of the book I was really liking it. I was thinking it was a 4 star book. It was easy to read and hard to put down. The mystery was intriguing and the characters were interesting. But it was just past the middle that I realized that it was an amazing story. It went from being really good to unbelievably good. I couldn't put the book down. I locked myself in the bathroom to avoid interruptions and flew through the book. I couldn't stop reading! The book is 400 pages, but I flew through it like it was 200. This is an adult book, but I would say it's definitely appropriate for older young adults or young adults used to reading adult books. ...more I must admit, there were things I liked about the book, but more things I didn't. The author was able to paint some images in my head with her descriptions, and that worked. Some of those images I will not be able to erase. Every once in awhile, she said something profound and beautifully-written that made me sigh in satisfaction, but these were few and far between. Many things bothered me about the book. Christopher was too vague. Grandma was too vague. I couldn't figure out the relationship Br I must admit, there were things I liked about the book, but more things I didn't. The author was able to paint some images in my head with her descriptions, and that worked. Some of those images I will not be able to erase. Every once in awhile, she said something profound and beautifully-written that made me sigh in satisfaction, but these were few and far between. Many things bothered me about the book. Christopher was too vague. Grandma was too vague. I couldn't figure out the relationship Brynn and Allison had with their parents. Some of the things Allison feared her mom would do if she found out about the birth of the baby didn't seem to line up with the woman I believed the author had painted. Their parents seemed like people who would do anything to make sure Allison looked like the perfect daughter who would never make a mistake. So why would she fear that her mother would want to keep the baby for herself? Or have Allison raise it? It seems that her mom would have done everything she could to get things back to normal as if a baby had never been born. So Allison's reasoning there made no sense to me. I also didn't understand why they erased Brynn out of their lives. Why? They knew nothing of her involvement. This excuse that she just couldn't be the perfect daughter once they lost their precious Allison didn't quite vibe with me. Brynn really made no sense. The author did a good job of portraying that Brynn had issues with depression; that she often drowned herself in alcohol and medication to overcome that depression; that she tried to kill herself right after the baby died, but we are with Brynn... in first person... for quite a bit of the story. And yet she never shows any signs of mental illness that would cause her to commit the heinous act in the bathtub. We are with her, inside her head, and we don't see it coming? We never even see her visiting her doctor, or having mental breakdowns or conversations that are incoherent until near the end. Instead, her doctor is only vaguely mentioned a couple of times. If Brynn was that messed up, we should have seen it. So the ending to her saga was very disappointing. And something is clearly wrong with Joshua. Is he autistic? I didn't quite get his tantrums. I mean, there is no way he could have suffered some traumatic episode before he was adopted that he could have even remotely remembered. He was only three weeks old when he came to live with Claire and Jonathan. Nobody remembers anything from that young age. But that is the feeling I got--that we were supposed to believe his hardship before adoption had somehow tainted him. It just didn't work for me. I didn't fall in love with Joshua like every woman in this book seemed to because he didn't tug on my heartstrings like he should have. He just seemed spoiled, and everyone tried to walk on eggshells around him like they were afraid he would break if they did or said the wrong thing. It was all very weird. Most of the main characters weren't fully fleshed out, and that always bothers me. Jonathan was too vague. He flitted in and out of the story with no real substance, although he was supposed to be important. Claire was very one-sided; wrapped up in fertility and adoption and the fear of losing another child. We don't know anything else about her. She didn't strike me as real. Joshua is five years old and she's still dwelling on the past. It was strange. The women at the halfway house were so underdeveloped that even Olene and Bea came off as superficial when they were supposed to be the voices of reason for Allison. They had one meaningful conversation, or maybe two. But I felt no connection between the women and Allison. I did not feel the ambiance of the halfway house like I wanted to, either. I wanted to see more of what Allison's life was like there. I would have liked to see scenes where she interacted more with the women. This was her home, after all, for the entire book. The story was rushed, especially at the end--to the point that it began to feel like we were watching flash scenes rather than smoothly making our way through a good story. The action was so fast in certain parts. Dinner with Charm's mother didn't impress me. Charm was there, then she was gone in six pages flat. I wanted meat in that chapter. I wanted to see motives behind her mother. Her mom was again, a disappointment as far as character development. There were things I could see about her very well, and I thought \"this character has potential.\" But then it was gone. She is a character I would have run with. The villainess is the most enjoyable character to create, and she was as close to a villainess as one got in this novel. SPOILERS BELOW: I think if the author had slowed her pace a bit and really allowed us time to get to know Christopher, for example-- to see the relationship between him and Allison blossom into love-- then I would have felt more of a connection to Joshua. I would have seen the Allison that the author merely told us about, but never let us meet. The scene with Allison and Brynn delivering that baby would have been moving in a different and personal kind of way. The author spent a lot of time telling us about Allison and what she was like before the pregnancy, but we didn't really know her, so it was hard to connect with who she was now. All in all, this book had a lot of potential, and I really did like the first half better than the second. I was disappointed when it all became predictable, and then unreasonable. And my one question still is how in the world does a thin, 17-year old girl hide the fact that she's having twins? It's just not realistic. One baby, maybe. Twins? Hmmm... Not sure that could be pulled off as easily. ...more This is a book that is all about secrets, choices, second chances, abandonment, and ultimately of hope. The story is told from the POV of multiple characters whose lives are connected in ways that only become readily apparent as the story unravels in unexpected ways. Allison is the twenty one year old former overachieving highschool student convicted of a heinous crime that has left her alienated and abandoned by her family and an outcast in the small Iowa town that she grew up in. Brynn is Allis This is a book that is all about secrets, choices, second chances, abandonment, and ultimately of hope. The story is told from the POV of multiple characters whose lives are connected in ways that only become readily apparent as the story unravels in unexpected ways. Allison is the twenty one year old former overachieving highschool student convicted of a heinous crime that has left her alienated and abandoned by her family and an outcast in the small Iowa town that she grew up in. Brynn is Allison's younger sister that is so traumatized by her childhood and past events that she lacks the necessary coping mechanisms for a happy and successful life. Charm is a young nursing student from a dysfunctional family. Effectively abandoned by her self-absorbed mother, she is coping with the fatal illness of the only parent figure in her life. Lastly there is Claire, business owner, wife and most importantly mother. Clair has a past full of heartaches and tragedy which she has seemingly finally overcome. Gudenkauf successfully develops four characters whose lives are interconnected in mysterious and unknown ways. Their story unravels in a suspenseful and compelling manner that leaves the reader unable to put the book down, while simultaneously exploring important contemporary social issues. This is the third book that I have read by Gudenkauf and I can say without reservation that she delivers quality writing each and every time. She is consistently able to provide the reader with a suspenseful and gripping read while tackling the important social issues of the day. I can't wait to discover what this author's fourth book is about. ...more Really enjoyed this book. This author is proving to be one of my new favorites. 4.5 stars. Despite a really disturbing event, the author handled it very well. I felt a mix of emotions throughout. Even with a character who had gone to prison for something awful, I felt both horror and hope, which is amazing that the author was able to convey that. The pace of the book moved very quickly with very short chapters. I love finding authors that are new to me who I really enjoy. Highly recommend. Great book! This is my first Heather Gudenkauf novel, but will not be my last. Heather writes beautifully, the story is told with words that flow down a lazy river until they reach the rapids. I especially love the way the story unfolds through the eyes of four women. I read this book in one day, I couldn't put it down. Allison and Brynn Glenn were by far, some of the worst characters I've ever had the displeasure of reading about. I know I was supposed to feel sorry for them, but nothing they did warranted that. Throughout the course of the book, Allison never really showed any concern for anyone other than herself. She used her sister to give birth to the children, but never really cared for her sister much otherwise. Now, I'm not pro-life, far from it, actually. In fact, my first thought was why didn't the b Allison and Brynn Glenn were by far, some of the worst characters I've ever had the displeasure of reading about. I know I was supposed to feel sorry for them, but nothing they did warranted that. Throughout the course of the book, Allison never really showed any concern for anyone other than herself. She used her sister to give birth to the children, but never really cared for her sister much otherwise. Now, I'm not pro-life, far from it, actually. In fact, my first thought was why didn't the bitch get an abortion, especially if she never really wanted it ? Of course this was before I learnt that she didn't realise that she was pregnant till her seventh month. How does a woman who's pregnant with twins (and she's supposed to be incredibly smart, this one) not realise she's pregnant. More importantly, how do the people around her not realise it? She must have been I never really felt anything for her. Of course, in the end, she did the right thing, the altruistic thing, but I couldn't like her. Brynn was depressed, crazy, suicidal...I get it. She needed help. What she did was a terrible thing, though - not drowning the baby, though that was terrible too, but putting it all on Allison. That said, I really liked Charm, Gus, Claire and Jonathan, and Joshua was a cutie. None of this redeemed the book though, because ugh, Allison Glenn. ...more I was fortunate enough to receive a pre publication copy of this book to review via NetGalley from whom I am giving the following quote ... Quote: from the publishers \"Allison Glenn tried to hide what happened that night...and failed. The consequence? Five years in prison. Now she\u2019s free. But secrets have a way of keeping you imprisoned. When Allison Glenn is sent to prison for a heinous crime, she leaves behind her reputation as Linden Falls\u2019s golden girl forever. Her parents deny the existence I was fortunate enough to receive a pre publication copy of this book to review via NetGalley from whom I am giving the following quote ... Quote: from the publishers \"Allison Glenn tried to hide what happened that night...and failed. The consequence? Five years in prison. Now she\u2019s free. But secrets have a way of keeping you imprisoned. When Allison Glenn is sent to prison for a heinous crime, she leaves behind her reputation as Linden Falls\u2019s golden girl forever. Her parents deny the existence of their once-perfect child. Her former friends exult in her downfall. Her sister, Brynn, faces the whispered rumors every day in the hallways of their small Iowa high school. It\u2019s Brynn\u2014shy, quiet Brynn\u2014who carries the burden of what really happened that night. All she wants is to forget Allison and the past that haunts her. But then Allison is released to a halfway house, and is more determined than ever to speak with her sister. Now their legacy of secrets is focused on one little boy. And if the truth is revealed, the consequences will be unimaginable for the adoptive mother who loves him, the girl who tried to protect him and the two sisters who hold the key to all that is hidden. Heather Gudenkauf is the critically acclaimed author of the New York Times bestseller The Weight of Silence. These Things Hidden is her second novel.\" What a brilliant novel Heather Gudenkauf has written, even better than her great debut The Weight of Silence This book would fit the same title but the stories are very different. These things hidden is the story of 4 women, Allison who at the beginning of the book is being released from prison to a halfway house, her sister Brynn, less confident as a youngster and having lived in Allisons shadow through their childhood, spends her time looking after abandoned animals. These sisters relied heavily on one another throughout an upbringing with rather cold and harsh parents but are now estranged, though Allison is desperate to contact her sister now she has been freed from jail. We also meet Claire owner of a Bookstore and adoptive mother to 5 year old Joshua and Charm, training as a nurse and caring for her terminally ill stepfather. The 4 womens lives are intertwined by events in their pasts, things hidden and an innocent little boy. Events and coincidences conspire to force these women to examine the events in their pasts and culminate in a dreadful revelation. The book is told by the 4 women and sometimes they are talking about the past and sometimes the present but its not difficult to follow and the beautifully written dialogue moves seamlessly from one viewpoint to another. I found the story intense and gripping and I'd describe it as an emotional suspense story. I found myself muttering \"Oh Nooo\" in parts and shed more than a few tears too. I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoyed The Ice Cream Girls or Sister but you'll have to hold your breath until February when it will be available in the shops. ...more These Things Hidden was sort of a recommendation from my GR friend Becky. She read this book last year, and even though it had been on my TBR shelf for a while, Becky's five star review pushed me to consider reading it sooner. I happened upon it a few months ago sitting on the $1 clearance section at Half-Price Books. It was a great investment. I really thought this story was about something else entirely. About secrets? Yes. What kind of secrets? I didn't know, or at least my idea was completely These Things Hidden was sort of a recommendation from my GR friend Becky. She read this book last year, and even though it had been on my TBR shelf for a while, Becky's five star review pushed me to consider reading it sooner. I happened upon it a few months ago sitting on the $1 clearance section at Half-Price Books. It was a great investment. I really thought this story was about something else entirely. About secrets? Yes. What kind of secrets? I didn't know, or at least my idea was completely different. I'm always really glad when I'm wrong about a story. I haven't read a novel in a while with so many twists, turns, and well....secrets. Especially twists, turns, and secrets which didn't feel forced or fake. It has been a while since I haven't wanted to put a novel down, and just read it so furiously to figure out what the heck is going on. This was a refreshing read. So many times, I said to myself, \"What is going on?!\" So many times, I thought I had some things figured out, but every time, I was wrong. It even go to the point where I stopped trying to figure it out, because it seemed like every page was a new revelation. I just kept wanting to read more. Something really surprised me about this novel, and it was the fact a major part of this story, one of the big parts of the secret, is revealed early on. MUCH earlier than I would have ever anticipated. I didn't know I had to be prepared to continually be shocked throughout the novel. There is one instance almost at the end where, I actually had to stop reading, and process what I had just read. Well, more like comprehend it. I should have seen that coming. I should have known, but I didn't because all the while, I was led to believe something else entirely. I love when a novel or author can do this to me. I love not knowing what to expect, and this time, I REALLY had no idea what to expect. The book is written with alternating chapters between four different perspectives. Usually, I don't enjoy books written this way because sometimes I forget things which happen or the story feels disjointed. However, this is one which really flowed smoothly and perfectly. I don't think it would have worked any other way, especially with all of the insight we get from the four different sides of the story. To me, I could see each character in my head as I read their chapters. I could see everything which was described, and I think having the alternating chapters really helped to create a believable, compelling story. Excellent read and highly recommended. ...more These Things Hidden was my second Heather Gudenkauf book. And, just like the first book I read and loved, The Weight of Silence , this was also a quick fantastic read! This is a beautifully human story about love. All kinds of love, and the different ways it takes shape in different people. It's also about the difficulties, struggles and consequences of the decisions we make...and the decisions that are already made for us. It's also about the beauty and tragedy of dealing with one's family. The b These Things Hidden was my second Heather Gudenkauf book. And, just like the first book I read and loved, The Weight of Silence , this was also a quick fantastic read! This is a beautifully human story about love. All kinds of love, and the different ways it takes shape in different people. It's also about the difficulties, struggles and consequences of the decisions we make...and the decisions that are already made for us. It's also about the beauty and tragedy of dealing with one's family. The bonds that can never be broken and the one's that sometimes are broken, no matter how hard you try to keep them together. And, most of all, hope and understanding of other's is a theme through this book as well. If you like family dramas, mystery and suspense...this is one to give a read. It's beautifully written and a fast read that keeps you glued to the pages. ...more Four and a half stars. That I read this book through so quickly shows how involved I was in the story and the characters. The story is told from varying viewpoints. That of Allison who has just been released from prison after serving five years for a shocking crime, and her younger sister Brynn who wants nothing to do with Allison. Then there is Charm who is pulled into the consequences of that fatal night when Allison's life took a drastic turn, and Claire - mother of the adopted Joshua. Secret Four and a half stars. That I read this book through so quickly shows how involved I was in the story and the characters. The story is told from varying viewpoints. That of Allison who has just been released from prison after serving five years for a shocking crime, and her younger sister Brynn who wants nothing to do with Allison. Then there is Charm who is pulled into the consequences of that fatal night when Allison's life took a drastic turn, and Claire - mother of the adopted Joshua. Secrets abound and they all centre round the birth of two babies. To find out how these four women's lives interconnect and the consequences of that fateful night you're going to have to read the book, which I highly recommend. My one quibble was that a girl can be pregnant without anyone suspecting. But if you can put this aside you will be riveted by the story and the connections. A compelling read. ...more My personal opinion: This read had my emotions going all over the place. I connected with Allison. She had a quiet strength and even though I thought she made some horrific choices, I could understand where they came from. She was frightened. She was young. She did not have her parents support. I felt for her sister, Brynn. The bullying scenes were heart-breaking. The way the story unfolded kept me on the edge of my seat. I was always anxious to find out how the newest twist would pan out. The en My personal opinion: This read had my emotions going all over the place. I connected with Allison. She had a quiet strength and even though I thought she made some horrific choices, I could understand where they came from. She was frightened. She was young. She did not have her parents support. I felt for her sister, Brynn. The bullying scenes were heart-breaking. The way the story unfolded kept me on the edge of my seat. I was always anxious to find out how the newest twist would pan out. The ending was totally unexpected. Very well-crafted story. Kim S., Harlequin Books ambassador ...more This is a novel about motherhood. What makes a good mother? A bad mother? It's about how faced with motherhood, desired or not, changes a woman's life forever. There are those that want to be mothers and face numerous struggles to become one. There are those that are not ready for motherhood but are faced with it anyway and must deal with it or make a difficult choice. This novel shows how differently every woman handles this life changing event. Allison was faced with motherhood, but it foiled h This is a novel about motherhood. What makes a good mother? A bad mother? It's about how faced with motherhood, desired or not, changes a woman's life forever. There are those that want to be mothers and face numerous struggles to become one. There are those that are not ready for motherhood but are faced with it anyway and must deal with it or make a difficult choice. This novel shows how differently every woman handles this life changing event. Allison was faced with motherhood, but it foiled her plans. She didn't handle things very well and now she is paying the price. From prison to probation to being shunned by society and feeling extreme guilt. Will she ever be able to right her wrong? Will her family ever accept her again? Brynn is Allison's sister and she played a major part in the whole Big Secret. She is paying for it too.. mentally. She is also constantly battling feelings of not being \"as good as Allison.\" Allison was wonder girl Brynn just wants to be a girl. Claire wanted a baby but her body would not deliver. Now that she has a child, she must worry about him being taken away. She is overprotective and scared.. and possibly with good reason. Depends on how the plot plays out... Charm is another main character. She feels betrayed by her mother and has chosen to live and care for her ailing stepfather. She is also a part of the Big Secret. The Big Secret is slowly revealed as the ending of the novel comes closer. Each woman has parts in the book, either first person or third. Just when I thought I had it all figured out, the book would surprise me. I really enjoyed it. Gus, the ailing stepfather was a strange addition. He and his sickness felt out of place.. an unneccessary sub story added to the story so four stars. ...more While I read this book I kept waiting to like one of the characters. Would it be Allison, the girl whose cold perfectionism drove her to commit a terrible crime? Her sister Brynn whose guilt over her sister's actions leaves her socially and emotionally isolated? What about Claire, the woman whose desire to have a child has turned into a needy, obsessed mother of her adopted son Josh? There's still Charm, the young nursing student who cares for her dying step-father while harboring yet another se While I read this book I kept waiting to like one of the characters. Would it be Allison, the girl whose cold perfectionism drove her to commit a terrible crime? Her sister Brynn whose guilt over her sister's actions leaves her socially and emotionally isolated? What about Claire, the woman whose desire to have a child has turned into a needy, obsessed mother of her adopted son Josh? There's still Charm, the young nursing student who cares for her dying step-father while harboring yet another secret that could change the lives of everyone in the story. You'll keep asking yourself which one? Which one? But ultimately, the answer will be none of them. Gudenkauf works tirelessly to show how the dark pasts of her characters have motivated them to engage in atrocious acts, but they never have a redeeming moment. Sadly, her writing isn't quite sharp enough to carry a message through the muck. Everyone is so cold, so sterile, so screwed up that the story soon turns into a waiting game. What has Allison done and how is everyone involved? Gudenkauf gives it all up too soon, so you spend most of the book watching how wretchedly these tragic events have shaped these lives. Somehow the characters have to come together and understand how they're all connected, and while the end has an okay twist, the final chapter was the nail in my coffin of Dislike. I finished the story feeling relieved to be rid of the characters, and disappointed the plot didn't get a chance to shine through. ...more So many people gave These Things Hidden five stars. I\u2019ve had many people recommend it to me. It was good. In all honesty, I finished it in three one hour sittings; I didn\u2019t want to put it down. However, I felt the author told the story more so than made me feel; if that makes any sense at all. For example: when Allison and Christopher fell in love. As the reader, I knew they were in love because the author told me, however, I felt no chemistry between them. Maybe it was because there romance was So many people gave These Things Hidden five stars. I\u2019ve had many people recommend it to me. It was good. In all honesty, I finished it in three one hour sittings; I didn\u2019t want to put it down. However, I felt the author told the story more so than made me feel; if that makes any sense at all. For example: when Allison and Christopher fell in love. As the reader, I knew they were in love because the author told me, however, I felt no chemistry between them. Maybe it was because there romance was so brief. What I enjoyed most was the different relationships. Gus and Charm with their father/daughter dynamic. Allison and Brynn\u2019s sister relationship showed the strong bond during the younger years then a more complicated dynamic as they aged. No matter what happened between them, the protective nature and need to help element never really went away. Then there was the less positive rapport with Charm, Christopher and their mother. Charm was my favorite character. She seemed to be the most mature and responsible \u2013 even being more logical in her thinking. I liked how the author was able to keep me guessing. When the story began, I knew Allison was in prison but the cat was not let out of the bag right away. I kept wondering what her crime was. Overall, I enjoyed the story and I look forward to the next book. ...more", "Title": "These Things Hidden"},
