{"Comments": "<+++>The Girl with Ghost Eyes</+++> is such a cool novel! It invents a whole new genre,<---M> a blend of kung fu</---M>, Daoist magic, crazy monsters, tong wars, immigrant narrative, female empowerment, spiritual journey, and social realism. I googled to see what things look like. 19th-c Chinatown: Yellow paper talismans: Peachwood sword: Creatures: \"My name is Xian Li-lin...and I am a Maoshan Nu Daoshi of the Second Ordination.\" Li-lin is also a grieving widow, a devoted and obedient daughter.<---F> She has yin eyes</---F>. She can see ghosts and must hide her ability in order to continue being an obedient daughter. No nasty magic allowed. Although the Maoshan tradition is keeping malevolent spirits away, actually seeing ghosts is unacceptable, so Li-lin is trapped straightaway in an impossible situation, set in an insoluble conflict with unfathomable \"My name is Xian Li-lin...and I am a Maoshan Nu Daoshi of the Second Ordination.\" Li-lin is also a grieving widow, a devoted and obedient daughter. She has yin eyes. She can see ghosts and must hide her ability in order to continue being an obedient daughter. No nasty magic allowed. Although the Maoshan tradition is keeping malevolent spirits away, actually seeing ghosts is unacceptable, so Li-lin is trapped straightaway in an impossible situation, set in an insoluble conflict with unfathomable tong disloyalty, all while her heart is still freshly broken. Rock, hard place. Cliff. Li-lin is a reluctant heroine, set on a journey by forces beyond her ken with few allies, trickster acquaintances and evil sorcerers. Classic. Boroson is a superb writer, this is his first novel and I hope he sells the screen rights for a tidy sum. Imagine Big Trouble in Little China with a female hero, minus the cultish cutes. Meanwhile I hope he's writing another Li-lin book right now. ...more 4 - 4.5 stars If you are a lover of adult historical fiction - look no further. M. H. Bronson's debut is nothing short of fantastic and fun. The prose is delightful, the world is rich, and the characters are memorable. If you have any interest in Chinese folklore this should be your next read. I highly look forward to the next adventure with Li-lin. Characters like Li Lin do not come around every day, and rarely are they part of a non-anglo culture. She is an exceptional protagonist in a novel full of interesting and exciting characters. As much as I like her as a character, I like that the author gave her plenty of opportunities to fail. This is not a story where things go smoothly and plans are carried out with ease. And so we see our protagonist fail when we expect a victory, and succeed when we thought all hope was lost. I recommend thi Characters like Li Lin do not come around every day, and rarely are they part of a non-anglo culture. She is an exceptional protagonist in a novel full of interesting and exciting characters. As much as I like her as a character, I like that the author gave her plenty of opportunities to fail. This is not a story where things go smoothly and plans are carried out with ease. And so we see our protagonist fail when we expect a victory, and succeed when we thought all hope was lost. I recommend this book to young adults and adults alike. I cannot wait for the next one. ...more If you like historical fiction and you enjoy a good, well written fantasy then this is definitely the book for you. Set in Chinatown, San Francisco in 1898, the story shows much of the way of life of Chinese immigrants at that time as they struggled to maintain their cultural beliefs and customs and yet still adapt to their new home. That's the historical fiction aspect and it is very well done. As for fantasy, the author uses for his main character a very strong, feisty Chinese girl. Li-Lin is t If you like historical fiction and you enjoy a good, well written fantasy then this is definitely the book for you. Set in Chinatown, San Francisco in 1898, the story shows much of the way of life of Chinese immigrants at that time as they struggled to maintain their cultural beliefs and customs and yet still adapt to their new home. That's the historical fiction aspect and it is very well done. As for fantasy, the author uses for his main character a very strong, feisty Chinese girl. Li-Lin is the daughter of a traditional exorcist and is able to see spirits and demons. She also practices Chinese magic and martial arts and is the epitome of a kick ass heroine! The result is an action packed story based in Chinese mythology and set within the customs and traditions of the period. It is well written, the characterisation is good and wow would it make a good movie! Well worth a read! ...more This book was a surprise and a delight. It's so rare for me to come across anything really NEW in my fantasy reading. This story about Chinese magic and monsters and kung fu fighting filled the bill. It also has a kick-ass (literally!)heroine in Xian Li-Lin. It reminded me a bit of Barry Hughart's Bridge of Birds (there's an explicit nod to that story in one spot). It also reminded me a bit of Spirited Away and other Miyazaki movies. Both of these are GOOD things. The story is great. Chinese mag This book was a surprise and a delight. It's so rare for me to come across anything really NEW in my fantasy reading. This story about Chinese magic and monsters and kung fu fighting filled the bill. It also has a kick-ass (literally!)heroine in Xian Li-Lin. It reminded me a bit of Barry Hughart's Bridge of Birds (there's an explicit nod to that story in one spot). It also reminded me a bit of Spirited Away and other Miyazaki movies. Both of these are GOOD things. The story is great. Chinese magic, monsters, gangsters, and fighting make it all fun. The writing itself is a little clunky, but perfectly readable. I'll definitely watch for more books by this author. ...more 4.5 stars The Girl With The Ghost Eyes was a really enjoyable read. I'm really glad to see that it's a part 1. Which means there's more to come. Set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the late 1890's, it blends Asian culture/folklore with fantasy, magic, and monsters. Li-lin is a strong female protagonist. She is smart, and resourceful. Still grieving the loss of her husband and now betrayed by his best friend. You can't help but root for her. Can't wait to read the next one. Lots of Chinese mythology, history of San Francisco Chinatown, and the gangs that controlled it as well as the beliefs of different factions. I'm so glad I recognized The Bridge of Birds! The main character was interesting and believable, and her father was cold and distant. Loved the eye! It was both familiar and brand new; wild from beginning to end. One of those books that is very difficult to put down after you've started, <+++>The Girl with Ghost Eyes</+++> is an absolutely thrilling joyride through the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown in the late 1800's. The story centers on a young Daoist priestess/widow named Li-Lin, who's navigating her way through not only life after her husband's death, but also the spirit and ghoul infested streets of Chinatown. After being betrayed by someone close to her, she embarks on a quest for revenge and redemptio One of those books that is very difficult to put down after you've started, The Girl with Ghost Eyes is an absolutely thrilling joyride through the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown in the late 1800's. The story centers on a young Daoist priestess/widow named Li-Lin, who's navigating her way through not only life after her husband's death, but also the spirit and ghoul infested streets of Chinatown. After being betrayed by someone close to her, she embarks on a quest for revenge and redemption. Along the way, she is assisted by a cadre of fantastic creatures, too awesome to spoil in this review. All this culminates into an epic final battle in the heart of Chinatown with an ancient evil that leaps right off the pages. A culturally sensitive portrayal of the times, this book deftly captures the hardships and stigma of being a widow in the late 1800's. Li-Lin's relationship with her father, and her unending struggle to win his approval, adds a deep layer of humanity to the story. Li-Lin is an underdog, and all the way up to the thrilling end, I could not help but cheer for her as she goes from being an afterthought in society, to a warrior respected by the living and the dead. The book is not only a journey into the otherworldly, but also an emotional journey that mirrors life, with lots of ups and downs, failures and successes. And have I mentioned the creatures?! Wow. As I was reading, I could vividly picture their odd and grotesque features as they parade gleefully down the street. You not only have the grim and the macabre, but also the colorful and the offbeat. They reminded me of great films such as Spirited Away and 1980's Hong Kong spirit magic films. They are unlike anything you've ever read about. As a Chinese-American, I appreciate the author's genuine effort in depicting the characters as flesh and blood, with real emotions and struggles, and not the caricatures you usually see with Asian characters. Li-Lin is not the typical sexpot with a sword dressed in a skimpy outfit; she is a true woman warrior to be revered. Also, many of the religious and folk terms used in the book are the genuine article. I could tell much research was done, with a great emphasis on their authenticity. I believe that once you get into the story, any perceived cultural barriers will dissolve and you'll root for Li-Lin like you would your own sister. I had a great time reading this book, and I'm eagerly looking forward to further tales of Li-Lin's journey. Highly recommended. Definitely worth revisiting. ...more I have read a number of weird wild west fantasy books in the last month. The Girl with Ghost Eyes may be both the saddest and funniest of them. Li-lin mourns her dead, wonderful husband, struggles to please her strict, demanding father, and wishes she did not see the spirit world. She lives in San Francisco at the end of the nineteenth century, when the older Chinese fight to follow their traditions and the younger are embracing their adopted country. Against her will, she is drawn into a battle I have read a number of weird wild west fantasy books in the last month. The Girl with Ghost Eyes may be both the saddest and funniest of them. Li-lin mourns her dead, wonderful husband, struggles to please her strict, demanding father, and wishes she did not see the spirit world. She lives in San Francisco at the end of the nineteenth century, when the older Chinese fight to follow their traditions and the younger are embracing their adopted country. Against her will, she is drawn into a battle formed from old hatreds and a new desire for power. TGwGE is a fast, engrossing read, and I finished it in one large gulp. Mr. Yanqiu is a surprising delight, and my favorite character. I will try to wait patiently for a sequel. ...more I really enjoyed this mystical tale of a Daoist exorcist's daughter in late 1800s San Francisco. There were a lot of fantastical elements, but the story interwove them well, so it never felt unbelievable. There were many interesting characters, including protagonist Li-lin, with the gift/curse of ghost eyes, and many of the supporting cast. Her relationship with her father was particularly interesting, as was her relationship with his severed eyeball, which became the spirit known as Mr. Yanqiu. I really enjoyed this mystical tale of a Daoist exorcist's daughter in late 1800s San Francisco. There were a lot of fantastical elements, but the story interwove them well, so it never felt unbelievable. There were many interesting characters, including protagonist Li-lin, with the gift/curse of ghost eyes, and many of the supporting cast. Her relationship with her father was particularly interesting, as was her relationship with his severed eyeball, which became the spirit known as Mr. Yanqiu. Other supporting characters, such as the cat spirit Mao'er, antagonist businessman Bok Choy, and the mysterious Buddhist monk who is actually a tiger, helped to flesh out the tale. I was a bit worried the story would stay in the spirit world once Li-lin ventured there in the first chapter, but fortunately that journey was short lived. While I did enjoy the spirit world, which reminded me of Hayao Miyazaki's Spirited Away , it was an effect best used in small doses. All in all, I'd strongly recommend this to anyone that likes fantasy stories that are influenced by different cultures and traditions other than the typical Western European J.R.R. Tolkien archetypes. ...more This book was simply fantastic! I'd recommended it to anyone interested in Chinese history, American history, philosophy, religion, a strong female protagonist, and/or a strong immigrant protagonist. This was a beautiful story that sparked my imagination. It makes me want to go out and do some research on this new world I have been shown. I'd also recommend this book to those who love Hayao Miyazaki's Sprited Away. I really got that vibe from it. I think it was all of the spirits. Also it remind This book was simply fantastic! I'd recommended it to anyone interested in Chinese history, American history, philosophy, religion, a strong female protagonist, and/or a strong immigrant protagonist. This was a beautiful story that sparked my imagination. It makes me want to go out and do some research on this new world I have been shown. I'd also recommend this book to those who love Hayao Miyazaki's Sprited Away. I really got that vibe from it. I think it was all of the spirits. Also it reminded me of watching Inuyasha in my youth. But I mean really, how can I not love Mr. Yanqui or Mao'er? There was nonstop action and every chapter was well crafted. I can not wait for a sequel!!! Also do I detect some inspiration from Shigeru Mizuki's Gegege no Kitaro? ...more wonderfully done and paced, managed to illuminate quite few concepts that usually would take several wiki pages to explain. loved the historical aspect and also how chauvinism pervaded but also how the wild west managed to start to change much of that . The start of an excellent new series with a kickass female heroine. Set in the late 19th century in San Francisco's Chinatown, Li-lin is a Daoist priestess battling evil armed only with a peachwood sword, a rope dart, kung-fu and magic spells. There's a whole bunch of goodies in this novel. It's a coming of age story with a marvelous urban fantasy background. There are supernatural elements and plenty of interesting characters in both the real and spirit world. I would have preferred less first p The start of an excellent new series with a kickass female heroine. Set in the late 19th century in San Francisco's Chinatown, Li-lin is a Daoist priestess battling evil armed only with a peachwood sword, a rope dart, kung-fu and magic spells. There's a whole bunch of goodies in this novel. It's a coming of age story with a marvelous urban fantasy background. There are supernatural elements and plenty of interesting characters in both the real and spirit world. I would have preferred less first person narration and a different point of view now and then but it hardly deters from such a strong story. My only minor complaint about the plot is Li-lin berates herself throughout the entire novel as not living up to her father's expectations or not being smart enough. By the end of the book this gets to be a bit tedious. I know this is going to be one of the best books I'll read this year. 4 1/2 stars. ...more Wonderful read! This is a fantastical blend of historical fiction and fantastical aspects like magic and monsters. The world is rich and detailed, and you can't help but root for the dedicated and fierce heroine, Li-Lin. The book starts off strong and doesn't back down - it is packed full of action, but still makes it easy to picture the backdrop of San Francisco's Chinatown, with all of its politics, gangs, and the choices Li-Lin has available to her as a young widow there. No cliffhanger ends Wonderful read! This is a fantastical blend of historical fiction and fantastical aspects like magic and monsters. The world is rich and detailed, and you can't help but root for the dedicated and fierce heroine, Li-Lin. The book starts off strong and doesn't back down - it is packed full of action, but still makes it easy to picture the backdrop of San Francisco's Chinatown, with all of its politics, gangs, and the choices Li-Lin has available to her as a young widow there. No cliffhanger ends this book, but ti does leave an opening for further adventures, which I would love to see. ...more Set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the second half of the 19th century, this story of a young Chinese widow, Li-Lin is so filled with Chinese folklore and mythology it is easy to lose sight of the real pathos of a woman dealing with grief and the limits of her gender. A priestess of significant power and a master of martial arts, she is constantly placed in subservient position even as she struggles alone to save the life of her father--and battle a demon who threatens the lives of hundreds of Set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the second half of the 19th century, this story of a young Chinese widow, Li-Lin is so filled with Chinese folklore and mythology it is easy to lose sight of the real pathos of a woman dealing with grief and the limits of her gender. A priestess of significant power and a master of martial arts, she is constantly placed in subservient position even as she struggles alone to save the life of her father--and battle a demon who threatens the lives of hundreds of innocent Chinese immigrants. I loved this book! Wonderful detail, terrific character. ...more What a rush! This book grips you and doesn't let go. No long pauses, no meandering side stories. Boronson includes only what is necessary to tell the story, from the first fight to the last. Li-lin is a resourceful and resilient character, driven and powerful but still possessed of believable uncertainty and flaws. If he continues her story in more books, I will certainly read them. Outstanding read! I've discovered both a new favorite author and female character in the pages of this book. Excellent incorporation of history, magic and folklore. Highly recommend. 4.5 stars! I enjoyed the world in the story: of Chinatown, spirits, and ghosts. This was a book I could not put down. Utterly Unique. Great book How would you know that a ghost story peopled with one-eye spirit, three-tailed tiger-turned-into monk, prophecy-telling gull, web-making-and soul-trapping baby spiders, and one-hundred-angry-soul monster can be so good? So terrifyingly good? Boronson weaves such a beautiful tale with such a demonic world, I have to say that. It is very impressive to see how the author took the command of the novel, internalizing as the main character Li-lin, a young widow bound by the sense of honor. She travel How would you know that a ghost story peopled with one-eye spirit, three-tailed tiger-turned-into monk, prophecy-telling gull, web-making-and soul-trapping baby spiders, and one-hundred-angry-soul monster can be so good? So terrifyingly good? Boronson weaves such a beautiful tale with such a demonic world, I have to say that. It is very impressive to see how the author took the command of the novel, internalizing as the main character Li-lin, a young widow bound by the sense of honor. She travels between worlds, kicks in the spiritual world, and turtle breathes in the real world of Chinatown. Her peachwood sword might not be as powerful as a daonu of seventh ordination, but her determination will certainly make the memory-eaters flinch. It's true I really enjoyed reading many familiar names of Chinese folklore in the novel \u2013 Bai Fa Mo Nu! But what I love most was how the author described the culture in a poetic and unforgettable gesture. For example, Li-lin asked, \u201cHow long must I protect you if I agree?\u201d The answer goes, \u201cFrom the time of ten suns to the time of none.\u201d Oh, how I love that, and everyone, who knew the tale of Hou Yi would love that. ...more A delightful historical fantasy rich with Chinese lore and magic. Great writing, and a main character you can really cheer for. Li-lin sees spirits, something she views as a burden and shame to her family. I loved watching her character arc develop as she comes to terms with her unique skills. Plus, she's pretty kickass at kung fu and shows the men a thing or two, which is excellent, especially considering this is set in the 1800s. I loved the immersion into this time period and culture, and all A delightful historical fantasy rich with Chinese lore and magic. Great writing, and a main character you can really cheer for. Li-lin sees spirits, something she views as a burden and shame to her family. I loved watching her character arc develop as she comes to terms with her unique skills. Plus, she's pretty kickass at kung fu and shows the men a thing or two, which is excellent, especially considering this is set in the 1800s. I loved the immersion into this time period and culture, and all the unique supernatural beings like the three-tailed tiger spirit and the evil snake spirit. The ending is pretty epic, with a great battle and a satisfying conclusion. Definitely recommended for lovers of fantasy and/or historical novels. ...more Seriously awesome book with a seriously kick-ass heroine. Asian folklore and remixed fairy tales are two of my favorite things; combine them with a woman who can take on the world and you have a winner. Excellent piece! I very much enjoyed the main character and her desire to protect her home (Chinatown). This book would make a great movie some day :) 4.5 Rich, fascinating, really fun. I loved this! The Girl with Ghost Eyes boasts Chinese magic and spirits from Asian mythology, and a turn of the century Chinatown full of complex, nuanced characters. With a spirit world layered just over ours and mythical creatures that spill over to threaten reality, it's got the hallmarks of urban fantasy. But well-researched folklore and the intricate customs and social structure of San Francisco's turn of the century immigrant community make this debut fantasy feel like nothing you've read before. If you'r The Girl with Ghost Eyes boasts Chinese magic and spirits from Asian mythology, and a turn of the century Chinatown full of complex, nuanced characters. With a spirit world layered just over ours and mythical creatures that spill over to threaten reality, it's got the hallmarks of urban fantasy. But well-researched folklore and the intricate customs and social structure of San Francisco's turn of the century immigrant community make this debut fantasy feel like nothing you've read before. If you're looking for rich, folklore-based fantasy in a vivid moment of history, The Girl with Ghost Eyes will satisfy. Chinatown's immigrant community is delivered with an action-packed punch. Recommended for: * Fantasy in a rich historical setting * Spirits and magic from Chinese folklore traditions * Cultural immersion with vivid characters and lyrical language If you like The Girl with Ghost Eyes , try: Range of Ghosts - Folklore and beliefs from the seldom explored Silk Road period come to life in lyrical prose Silver on the Road - Magic in the era of Western expansion, with a strong heroine and a vivid historical setting Sorcerer to the Crown - Historical based fantasy in the regency era with a vivid faery reality Breakdown: Genre: Urban fantasy, historical fantasy, diverse read Magics/Tech: ghosts, spirits and monsters from Chinese (and other Asian) folklore; Daoist magical traditions and kung fu Setting: late 19th century Chinatown, San Francisco Protag: female, widow, first gen Chinese American immigrant, Daoist exorcist Reviewed on Come Hither Books ...more Richly detailed in the tradition of wuxia novels with a more modern Americanized feel. Reading this felt like dropping into the middle of a movie. I could almost pictures the sights, sounds, and smells of old Chinatown. Li-lin is not your typical overpowered heroine. She must use her weakness and her wits more than her martial arts strength to overcome her opponents. In the beginning, she runs away a lot. Some of the language around her repeated decisions to flee began to sound repetitive, but I Richly detailed in the tradition of wuxia novels with a more modern Americanized feel. Reading this felt like dropping into the middle of a movie. I could almost pictures the sights, sounds, and smells of old Chinatown. Li-lin is not your typical overpowered heroine. She must use her weakness and her wits more than her martial arts strength to overcome her opponents. In the beginning, she runs away a lot. Some of the language around her repeated decisions to flee began to sound repetitive, but I admire her ability to assess and pull back from a risky situation rather than blundering further into trouble. The spirits featured in the story are also varied and interesting, from a tiger who has changed his ways through Buddhism to her father's detached eye to a flock of prophetic spirit gulls. The promise they extract from Li-lin before agreeing to help her leaves the story perfectly primed for a sequel. The strength in this novel lies in the immersive world building and colorful descriptions of the Daoist customs of its main characters and the spirits that inhibit Chinatown's spirit world. Sometimes the story felt in turns scattered or repetitive, though this may just a symptom of trying to work in so much into one book. Li-lin is also at times perhaps a bit too naive (e.g. the contract). The fast pacing and attention-grabbing narrative pulled me through those places though, eager to reach the resolution. If you enjoyed the spirit realm depicted here, give The Ghost Bride a try. Meanwhile, I feel like watching some wuxia. :) ...more THE GIRL WITH THE GHOST EYES is a remarkable, inspired debut. Li-Lin, the richly drawn heroine, captured my imagination and my heart. She takes a journey that is both empowering and chilling. Boroson creates two worlds for Li-Lin to navigate, both real and supernatural, and each is filled with unforgettable characters and imagery. This story captivates on every level and is a pure joy to read. Make room on your bookshelf for this one. Bravo.<---A>M.H. Boroson</---A><---C>M.H. Boroson</---C>", "Title": "The Girl with Ghost Eyes"},
