{"Comments": "Chances are, you\u2019re aware that the potato originated in Peru and smallpox in Africa, and that both species crossed the Atlantic shortly after Columbus. You probably know, too, that the potato later became a staple in many European countries and that smallpox decimated the native population of the Americas. However, what you may not know is how profound was the impact on the course of history of the exchange of animals, plants, minerals, and microorganisms from the Old World to and from the New. H Chances are, you\u2019re aware that the potato originated in Peru and smallpox in Africa, and that both species crossed the Atlantic shortly after Columbus. You probably know, too, that the potato later became a staple in many European countries and that smallpox decimated the native population of the Americas. However, what you may not know is how profound was the impact on the course of history of the exchange of animals, plants, minerals, and microorganisms from the Old World to and from the New. Historians call this phenomenon the Columbian Exchange. Writing in 1493, <---A>Charles C. Mann</---A> refers to it as a turning-point equally as profound as the development of agriculture. One after another, this brilliant book brushes away a host of cherished myths that have grown up in the shadows of history. Consider: \u25a0 The Columbian Exchange was by no means limited to commerce between Europe and the Americas. It was a truly global phenomenon, with far-reaching effects in Asia and Africa as well. Mann refers to the era ushered in by the Columbian Exchange as the \u201cHomogenocene\u201d \u2014 a new phase in human history when globalization became a reality and the world we share became increasingly homogenized. \u25a0 Though the Conquistadors\u2019 search for gold was largely frustrated, their discovery of a mountain of silver in Bolivia led to Spain\u2019s flooding the world with so much of this metal that it eventually wrecked the economies of both Europe and China. \u25a0 When Europeans sailed westward to colonize the New World, the native population was huge. For example, the Eastern seaboard of North America was more densely populated than Western Europe. Diseases inadvertently introduced from Europe and Africa reduced the population by half or more within the first few decades. \u25a0 Most Americans think of the westward movement of people as a European phenomenon.<---F> It was,<---M> in fact</---M>, predominantly African</---F>. Africans, transported over the sea as slaves, outnumbered European colonists by huge ratios. Not until the 19th Century, when the Irish potato famine and political upheaval across Europe produced mass emigration to the Americas, did the ethnic balance tip. These are just a few of the eye-opening themes Charles Mann develops so ably in 1493. If you have even a passing interest in how the world got to be the way it is, read this book. (<---B>From www.malwarwickonbooks.com </---B>) ...more 1493 is all over the place...and that's a good thing. Charles C. Mann's follow up to his spectacular 1491 look at the pre-Columbian Americas is quite an admirable undertaking. Here he looks at the consequences of Columbus's voyages to the Americas. For better and/or for worse they had far reaching affects, especially biologically. Mann's premise seems to state that Columbus was not a morally good man, but he should be celebrated as bringing about the world's biological homogenization. Though thi 1493 is all over the place...and that's a good thing. Charles C. Mann's follow up to his spectacular 1491 look at the pre-Columbian Americas is quite an admirable undertaking. Here he looks at the consequences of Columbus's voyages to the Americas. For better and/or for worse they had far reaching affects, especially biologically. Mann's premise seems to state that Columbus was not a morally good man, but he should be celebrated as bringing about the world's biological homogenization. Though this is no murder mystery, I'm going to refrain from giving examples, because that would spoil the fun of reading 1493 . ...hm...well, that doesn't give me much else to talk about. ...more Human history no longer belongs to the twin poles of Eurocentricism, which either praise or damn European superiority or dominance, respectively. One consequence of recent globalization and multiculturalism is a redress of the balance of the human story, one which assigns both place and respect (and appropriate blame) to all of the civilizations of size in this world. It reminds us that not only Europeans engaged in the African slave trade, that not only Europeans conquered and settled and trade Human history no longer belongs to the twin poles of Eurocentricism, which either praise or damn European superiority or dominance, respectively. One consequence of recent globalization and multiculturalism is a redress of the balance of the human story, one which assigns both place and respect (and appropriate blame) to all of the civilizations of size in this world. It reminds us that not only Europeans engaged in the African slave trade, that not only Europeans conquered and settled and traded and stole. Certainly they did all this as well, and in large measure, but not exclusively. The book 1493, by Charles C Mann, is part of this trend and has many interesting stories to tell, centered around the global ecological consequences of Columbus' voyages to the Caribbean. These tales range from tracking the history of malaria and its attendant socio-political consequences (on slavery and war, among other things), to the suggestion that the mini Ice Age in Europe in the 17th century may have been due to the mass decimation of North American native peoples, which was primarily due to the introduction to the continent of infectious diseases such as smallpox. Apparently the native people engaged in widespread burning as an agricultural practice, and the cessation of this, along with the consequent overgrowth of trees, led to a reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In other words, wherever there have been large numbers of humans, they have impacted the environment, including the realm of climate change. That we are doing such now with the fossil fuel burn-off is undeniable, but it is also not unprecedented. It's a conceit of our time that we are the first to do everything. In fact, all of our actions and their unintended consequences are part of a sequence that has been ongoing since the time of the first large-scale human populations, such as in China, Egypt, Mexico, Peru, and elsewhere. Mann argues that the voyages of Columbus kicked off the process of globalization that we are merely continuing now and have been for more than five hundred years. It's a long and complex story, with lots of fascinating aspects, covering the entire planet, from Asia and Africa to Europe and the Americas. It is a truism that history is the story of the conquerors, but we are all now, in this time, survivors of the past, and merely by survival we are all the victors today. History is becoming more and more a story of us all, a vast and curious tapestry of societies all around the world that have far more in common than they ever had differences. It's about time we were all included. ...more 1493 / 978-0307265722 I really enjoyed Charles Mann's 1491, but after struggling to get through 1493, I'm afraid to re-read the first and find that my opinion may now be reversed. 1491 was for me a wonderfully compiled and comprehensive look at the Americas before Columbus arrived and everything was inexorably changed. I appreciated the information presented in the book, as well as the manner in which it was presented -- I was strongly affected by Mann's tone with that volume and how he seemed to 1493 / 978-0307265722 I really enjoyed Charles Mann's 1491, but after struggling to get through 1493, I'm afraid to re-read the first and find that my opinion may now be reversed. 1491 was for me a wonderfully compiled and comprehensive look at the Americas before Columbus arrived and everything was inexorably changed. I appreciated the information presented in the book, as well as the manner in which it was presented -- I was strongly affected by Mann's tone with that volume and how he seemed to take a great deal of care in writing his narrative respectfully as well as engagingly and accurately. We, the readers, may have been treading on the bones of history, but there was (for me) a sense that we were doing so with reverence. 1493, on the other hand, seems to suffer from the success of the first. We'll start with the title, which seems to imply that 1493 will be what 1491 was: a comprehensive look at the Americas in that pivotal year, only instead of taking a snapshot immediately before Columbus' arrival, we'll look at immediately after. Unfortunately, this isn't really the case; 1493 is about what Mann calls \"the Columbian Exchange\", by which he means the fact that people, animals, plants, insects, microorganisms, etc. were ferried all over the world by travelers (like, but not limited to, Columbus) into new ecosystems, where they wrought serious changes to the local ecology and economy. This isn't a bad thesis, and certainly there are a number of interesting facts here, but it means we're talking about a globe-spanning topic with millions of individual unique examples, without any single narrative to really tie things firmly and interestingly together. Perhaps the book would have worked better if it were limited to the Americas, as 1491 had been, and just looked at what the Europeans introduced into the American ecosystem -- and possibly a look at what the Europeans brought back from America with them. That would have been a more cohesive narrative, I think, than trying to tie the African slave trade in the 1700s in with a look at the effects of sweet potatoes on Communist China in the 1900s. Even if you're willing to stick with the narrative wherever it takes you -- and without being bored sometimes at the ratio of encyclopedic facts to engaging narrative -- there's additionally a huge tonal shift between this book and its predecessor, and for me at least this was a serious obstacle. 1491 had a very respectful tone, and was very self-aware of its own shortcomings. Mann open acknowledged that he was something of a dilettante historian, and that he was only stepping forward with his book in order to fill a literary gap that he felt needed filling. There were troubling untruths being told in service to the Columbus myth and he felt that the record needed to be set straight on certain issues. Yet here in 1493, it feels like Mann has shed his respectful demeanor and taken on a tone that seems terribly self-aggrandizing. Just to select from the first chapter alone, he spends a tremendous amount of time setting up a Golden Mean Fallacy: 'some people claim THIS, other people claim THAT, but the truth is here in the middle'. This isn't necessary, it detracts from the narrative, and it pads the book out to a tedious length for no reason that I can see other than so Mann can pat himself on the back for being Right while others are Wrong rather than just getting to the meat of the subject matter. Here is one quote where he handles different aspects of the Columbus myth: \"Unsurprisingly, native people rarely endorse this view of their history, and Col\u00f3n's part in it. An army of activists and scholars has bombarded the public with condemnations of the man and his works. They have called him brutal (he was, by today's standards) and racist (he wasn't, strictly speaking--modern concepts of race had not yet been invented); incompetent as an administrator (he was) and as a seaman (he wasn't); a religious fanatic (he surely was, from a secular point of view); and a greedy monomaniac (a charge, the admiral's supporters would say, that could be leveled against all ambitious souls). Col\u00f3n, his detractors charge, never understood what he had found.\" I don't understand why Mann wants to bash on the people he sees as ideological opponents (an \"army of activists\"? Really?), instead of just talking about Columbus from the ground up. He would have been better served to do so, really, because this kind of summing up of the opposition seems so lazy as to make me worry about the scholarship of the rest of the book. For instance, Columbus isn't called \"racist\" because his detractors mistakenly believe he subscribed to the same understanding of race as we do today; they call him \"racist\" because he didn't have a problem with enslaving and casually genociding people who weren't sufficiently like himself to deserve his empathy. They are, in other words, applying the term to his actions rather than to his supposed train of logic in service to those actions. For Mann to pretend otherwise troubles me: either he really doesn't understand Columbus' detractors, or he does understand and he's deliberately misrepresenting them. I find that a matter for concern. Later, in the same chapter, Mann will casually dismiss local disapproval with the Columbus monument in Santo Domingo as nothing more than misplaced anger at dictator Rafael Trujillo, and will go so far as to lecture the residents on what they should consider the 'true' meaning of the Columbus monument: \"Residents of the walled-off slums around the monument told reporters that they thought Col\u00f3n deserved no commemoration at all. A thesis of this book is that their belief, no matter how understandable, is mistaken. The Columbian Exchange had such far-reaching effects that some biologists now say that Col\u00f3n's voyages marked the beginning of a new biological era: the Homogenocene. The term refers to homogenizing: mixing unlike substances to create a uniform blend. With the Columbian Exchange, places that were once ecologically distinct have become more alike. In this sense the world has become one, exactly as the old admiral hoped. The lighthouse in Santo Domingo should be regarded less as a celebration of the man who began it than a recognition of the world he almost accidentally created, the world of the Homogenocene we live in today.\" So, just to be clear, Dominicans who regard the local monument to Columbus as a reprehensible commemoration to Columbus are wrong because they \"should\" view the monument as recognition of the fact that some people -- including, but not limited to, Columbus -- piloted a lot of different ships to a lot of different places over a lot of different time periods, and some of the results of those events are things like sweet potatoes and their effect on Communist China. Clearly. I wanted -- so much! -- to like 1493. I expected to like it so much that even after receiving a free copy through Vine, I purchased an e-book version as well so that I could have both. I did this because I liked the scope, the cohesion, and the tone of 1491 immensely. But the scope of 1493 is so vast as to be almost infinite, the narrative cohesion is non-existent in places and is often abandoned in favor of lists of facts, and the tone seems to indicate that the author thinks he understands history better than anyone else, in the wake of one extremely popular and successful book. Because of that, I personally did not find 1493 to be entertaining, enlightening, or respectful of the subject matter, and I really cannot recommend it. NOTE: This review is based on a free Advance Review Copy of this book provided through Amazon Vine. ~ Ana Mardoll ...more Remember Fourth Grade? Sister Mary Anne taught us to singsong \"Columbus sailed the ocean blue in fourteen hundred and ninety two.\" Then we skipped to Jamestown in 1607. Did you ever get the feeling that we had missed a lot of something somewhere? Well, boys and girls, we surely did! Charles C. Mann has given us a marvelous account of the events that occurred that directly relate to what he calls the Columbian exchange. Now most of us have a vague idea that the invasive European powers brought so Remember Fourth Grade? Sister Mary Anne taught us to singsong \"Columbus sailed the ocean blue in fourteen hundred and ninety two.\" Then we skipped to Jamestown in 1607. Did you ever get the feeling that we had missed a lot of something somewhere? Well, boys and girls, we surely did! Charles C. Mann has given us a marvelous account of the events that occurred that directly relate to what he calls the Columbian exchange. Now most of us have a vague idea that the invasive European powers brought some unwelcome gifts like influenza and small pox. Most of us have a faint awareness that foods like the potato and tomato crossed to Europe from the Americas. Almost everyone knows that the Spaniards looted for gold and silver. But the things we don't always know may have caused more world shaking events. It was not simply gold doubloons that powered the rise of Western Europe. Trade in items like pineapple, sweet potatoes, blue and white Ming porcelain, ladies' fans of silk and lace, and people, enslaved and free, but mostly in some form of servitude. Mann recounts stories of the deadly silver mines of Potosi, the Manila Galleons, the trade in sugarcane, natural rubber and mosquitoes. He recounts his stories with clarity and wit. This book is easy to read and easy to love. It's full of really neat stuff! ...more <+++>1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created</+++> explores what happened when the New World and Old World came into contact from an ecological, biological, and economic perspective. The result is history not as made by kings and queens and generals, but by the potato, tobacco, the spice trade, and infectious disease. Take this, for instance: West Africans have an inherited immunity to malaria, the disease that beset early colonists and their indentured servants and then the native people of the Am <+++>1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created</+++> explores what happened when the New World and Old World came into contact from an ecological, biological, and economic perspective. The result is history not as made by kings and queens and generals, but by the potato, tobacco, the spice trade, and infectious disease. Take this, for instance: West Africans have an inherited immunity to malaria, the disease that beset early colonists and their indentured servants and then the native people of the Americas they originally enslaved to work the malarial-ridden fields of sugarcane, tobacco, and rice. So can we trace the institution of slavery in this country to a disease? Mann argues persuasively that there is a connection, though he is quick to point out that it would be simplistic to say that malaria caused slavery, and is just as quick to say that slavery would have existed in the Americas without it. And, of course, people being what they are unfortunately, greed and callousness are factors too, another point Mann makes. Phew. It's fascinating stuff, but it becomes something of a chore to get through, I'm sorry to say, especially because I thought his book 1491 (about the pre-contact Americas) was not only brilliant but very readable. ...more How do you feel about history books that subvert your prior beliefs? Because there are a few very good ones out there. 1493, by Charles Mann, is one of them. His earlier best-selling 1491 probably is as well, but I haven\u2019t gotten around to that yet. Briefly, 1493 examines how the world changed due to, and very soon after, the initial contact between the Americas and the rest of the world in 1492. The term \u201cColumbian Exchange\u201d reminds us that the change was bidirectional. We are all familiar w How do you feel about history books that subvert your prior beliefs? Because there are a few very good ones out there. 1493, by Charles Mann, is one of them. His earlier best-selling 1491 probably is as well, but I haven\u2019t gotten around to that yet. Briefly, 1493 examines how the world changed due to, and very soon after, the initial contact between the Americas and the rest of the world in 1492. The term \u201cColumbian Exchange\u201d reminds us that the change was bidirectional. We are all familiar with the devastation the Old World\u2019s diseases caused in the Americas, but there is so, so much more. Mann starts in his New England garden, pointing out that nothing in it originated within 1000 miles. Near the end, he points out that the same is true of the gardens in the Philippines, despite their cherished evocations of homely tradition. The role China plays in the book will probably startle many. Even more dramatic is how far the interaction and mixing of the \u201cRed\u201d and \u201cBlack\u201d got, long before \u201cWhite\u201d Europeans arrived in sufficient numbers to become culturally dominant. Long before the Pilgrims even got to New England, there were entire cities composed of those resisting European subjugation. The scope of the Columbian Exchange is staggering. It affected the collapse of Chinese empires and the timing of the Protestant Reformation, neither of which are explored, as far as I remember, in college history classes, much less in grade school. Most of the United States was settled later, and by different cultural forces, and so I wonder if those south of the Rio Grande (or perhaps in the eastern subtropical portion of the United States) would find this even more revelatory. If you want more arguments on why you might want to read this big, fat book, check out any or all of these reviews: \u2022 New York Times, Seeds, Germs and Slaves \u2022 Washington Post, \u201c1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created\u201d \u2022 The Wall Street Journal, The Herald of A New Creation \u2022 The San Francisco Chronicle, \u20181493,\u2019 by Charles C. Mann \u2022 The GuardianUK, 1493 by Charles C Mann \u2013 review \u2022 The IndependentUK, 1493, By Charles C Mann P.S. A complimentary book I would recommend is Colin Woodard\u2019s American Nations , which dissects the United States into largely discrete and somewhat divergent regions, based on their culture of their \u201ceffective\u201d founders. Woodard\u2019s book has more flaws than Mann\u2019s \u2014 the author\u2019s personal allegiance to New England gets in the way of an unbiased analysis \u2014 but is in many ways a more important book, at least to North Americans, with a significant bearing on the caustic partisan contemporary environment in the United States. Mann\u2019s book highlights a few of the biases implicit in Woodard\u2019s telling, but the real goal of the pair is to force the reader to reexamine old beliefs about the history of the Americas. ...more Absolutely fascinating. Worms and parasites, slaves and masters, greed and commerce, tobacco and guano \u2013 all have radically shaped today's world, and continue to do so. The Columbian Exchange united, both for better and for worse, this earth in ways that Columbus could never have dreamed. The author's writing is well organized, researched, illustrated, and annotated. Given that, it still could have been boring but it wasn't. Charles Mann kept me entertained and interested through every word, rema Absolutely fascinating. Worms and parasites, slaves and masters, greed and commerce, tobacco and guano \u2013 all have radically shaped today's world, and continue to do so. The Columbian Exchange united, both for better and for worse, this earth in ways that Columbus could never have dreamed. The author's writing is well organized, researched, illustrated, and annotated. Given that, it still could have been boring but it wasn't. Charles Mann kept me entertained and interested through every word, remarkable considering how much information he was able to impart in the roughly 400 pages of text. I knew bits and pieces of this story, but never the bigger picture as he was able to show me. He did this without becoming pedantic, condescending, or proselytizing. I highly recommend this book to anyone at all interested in the history and future of this planet. I received a free uncorrected proof of this book for purposes of review. ...more The subtitle is noteworthy: \"Uncovering the New World Columbus Created,\" not \"Discovered.\" In arriving at the New World, Charles C. Mann proposes, Columbus created a new world of globalization and modernization. The author carries the readers through a breathtaking geological scope and time span stretching from Spain, England, Americans (north and south), Africa, China, and Philippines and from the 15th through 21st centuries in a truly global and cosmic scale, providing an account of trade, dis The subtitle is noteworthy: \"Uncovering the New World Columbus Created,\" not \"Discovered.\" In arriving at the New World, Charles C. Mann proposes, Columbus created a new world of globalization and modernization. The author carries the readers through a breathtaking geological scope and time span stretching from Spain, England, Americans (north and south), Africa, China, and Philippines and from the 15th through 21st centuries in a truly global and cosmic scale, providing an account of trade, diseases, ecological booms and busts, piracy, slavery, wars, and many more topics. This is not a history of the past but a compelling genealogical account of how the present came about. I now understand the present Americans, Philippines, and China better than ever, thanks to this book. This book tells the history told not by the winners but by the victims of the inevitable \"Columbus exchange\" that changed everyone's life forever all around both in individual and societal scare and both the victims and the perpetrators alike who are affected by the \"Columbus exchange.\" Like a careful archeologist and a genealogist, Mann uncovers the hidden, repressed, ignored, or otherwised forgotten facts which account for the genealogy of the present in the Nietzschean sense. Betweens the lines in many pages of the book one can hear the cries of the victims who fell at the hands of harsh enslavement in the American plantations, the Andes mountains, and the Amazonian rain forests and river basin along with the silent weeping of the earth from the soils of China, Philippines, and elsewhere. The utter devastation and destruction of the Indian races by diseases and human cruelty cannot be ignored. This is a compelling and well written book (equally well narrated by Robertson Dean) with a remarkable thesis: That Columbus ushered in the global age with all of its ecological, political, and economical consequences still impacting the present global world. The link Columbus established unknowingly around the world is called \"the Columbus exchange\" whereby not only goods and cultures were exchanged by trade and exploit but also micro organisms, plants, diseases, and host of other species that were exchanged wittingly or unwittingly not only between Americas and Europe but also with China and Philippines, Brazile, and Central America. The Columbus exchange was an exchange of global magnitude that tied the world into one destiny, one corner of the earth affecting the other, for good or ill. The result of the global exchange is called \"homogenescene\" (sp?) - making and mixing diverse species so as to shape the world into an homogeneous and essentially one ecologically and culturally familiar place. To be sure, Columbus never saw China, his ultimate destination. But his dream of establishing the lucrative trade route to China (for silk and spices) was realized less than 100 years later, in 1565, when Miguel L\u00f3pez de Legazpi, the first royal governor, arrived in Cebu from New Spain (Mexico), who shared the same vision and goal as Columbus, and met the Chinese merchants for the first time. Thus, the global galleon trade began in earnest. At the bottom of Columbus's ambition was to bring the riches of China to Spain in order, in turn, to fund the Franciscan goal of rescuing Jerusalem from the Muslims. Of course, the purported reason was to evangelize China. (Columbus resided in the Franciscan monastery and later years believed that he was the only qualified person to convert the Chinese emperor to Christianity.) Columbus was eventually sponsored by the Spanish monarch who lusted after the China's wealth, then the world's richest country. For better or for worse, the consequences of the Columbus exchange, foreseen and unforeseen, were of biblical proportion: the indigenous Indian races first in the now-a-day Puerto Rico and soon thereafter the rest of the Americas were almost completely wipe out by malaria, small pox, hepatitis, and yellow fever; the introduction of corn and sweet potatoes to China deforested the country, causing unprecedented flood and famine, while also making China the world's most populous nation. The Ming Dynasty coveted the silver shipped from the New Spain (Mexico) in order to fund its currency. But millions of Incas died while mining and refining silver from the mountains of Inca (Peru and other places), as poisoned by mercury while being forced to labor in the Peruvian mountains. Spain's wealth based on silver and her rise to world power was obtained at the cost of millions of Inca Indians' lives that perished at the silver mines and refineries. The European luxuries and booms in burgeoning cities like Seville, London, and Paris were brought by the sacrifice of the Indians. Riding in the galleon trade was also the American tobacco, first smoked by the native Indians. Tobacco quickly addicted Londoners, Chinese, as well as the Japanese emperor and countless others around the globe, including the priests who smoked it during the mass in the cathedrals of Europe. All corners of the world were at once hooked in nicotine-a true globalization brought on by the Columbus exchange. The list of the Columbus exchange brought on with global implications for good or ill goes on and on. But the underlying thesis of the book is that these ecological changes were revolutionary not only biologically but also economically, socially, and politically, giving the ultimate rise to the Western dominance in the modern age--the dominance obtained at the cost of devastation of the Indians and by the African slave labor. The malaria was transported from London but once it landed in the tropical climate of James Town, it took off like a wild fire, decimating both the American indians and the new comers alike. The death toll of the new comers to the disease was staggering; but its impact on the Indians were greater. It was malaria that could explain the passivity of the Indians who did not wipe out the white invaders despite many opportunities to do so. It was malaria that even explains in an important way the defeat of the British forces later, giving rise to American Independence. It was malaria too which made African slaves more viable as slaves economically in America, as the Indian slaves (first used by the tobacco farmers) grew feeble and smaller in numbers in the face of malaria. African slaves were genetically superior to the European slave masters to resist malaria; but the superiority worked against them, as it make them more attractive as slave laborers. As Mann puts it, the slave ships from Africa were riding on the winds of malaria, providing much needed labor force for harvesting the tobacco in James Town, Virginia, North Carolina, and elsewhere. Yes, James Town, the first American settlement, was founded on the tobacco leaves to meet the demands of the nicotine addiction in Europe. It must also be noted that James Town gave birth to the first representative democracy as well as the first institution of slavery. The first slave was purchased there only 4 days after establishing the first representative governing council. If James Town in Virginia fed the nicotine crave in London and elsewhere in Europe, the eastern most Caribbean island, Barbados, first supplied the sugar craze in Europe--the taste of which was first discovered when the Crusaders invaded the Middle East. There again in Barbados, the African slaves proved to be superior in resisting the malaria, who also in turn brought with them the yellow fever from Africa which in turn devastated the Dutch traders and slave masters, while not affecting the Africans themselves who were immune from the disease. Nonetheless, the lucrative sugar industry could not be deterred by the onslaught of diseases. The labor force had to be provided at all cost, which in turn ushered in a full blown slavery industry, the like of which was never seen in the entire history of slavery from ancient time to the present from Rome to Africa. Adam Smith opposed slavery, arguing that it did not make economic sense (i.e., slaves did not speak the language, did not know how to farm European way, would rebel or run away, as they did). But with the help of malaria and yellow fever cradled in the ideal Caribbean/Mid-Atlantic tropical conditions (like James Town), these diseases made slavery of Africans viable and superior alternative to the indentured servants from Europe or to the native Indian slaves (who could not be put to slavery if they were baptized as Christians). Again, Africans' physical superiority contributed to their enslavement to their detriment. However, more than half escaped and intermarried with Indians and founded the modern nations such as Nicaragua and Haiti. There were more Africans and Indians than Europeans until the massive European immigrations in the 19th century; as every European brought two or three African slaves to America. Potatoes transported to Europe gave population boom, which stabilized the governments of England, Dutch, Spain, and Portugal, who in turn were able to focus outward and expand toward the world in their respective imperialistic ambitions and dominance. Nothing else but potatoes were largely responsible for their rise, says the author. With the rise also came the downfall, however, as potatoes were grown in mass, uni-crop farming--specially in Ireland--which in turn were wiped out by the pestilent that attacked potatoes exclusively and efficiently, causing the infamous Irish famine, which in turn created the influx of Irish immigrants to the US in the mid 19th century. Another example of the global impact of the Columbus exchange. African slaves were not docile laborers. They rebelled and joined with the native Indians and successfully fought against the slave masters. The run-away slaves, not the Spaniards, were the first ever to see the Pacific Ocean from the ridges of high mountains in Panama. They ran many successful ambushes and gorilla attacks against the plantations from which they escaped, so much that they gave the Spanish government enormous problems. The maroons (the Spanish word for renegades) joined forces with the native indians but also with English pirates (include the famous pirate Drake) to attack Spanish shipments of silver and other goods. Many maroons were absorbed by the Indian communities (which in turn were formed in the deep forests unreachable by the Europeans) and married Indian women, thus creating the present day latin American nations such as Mexico, Nicaragua, and Brazil. (They had no choice but to marry Indians, as only one third of the African slaves brought to America were women; and marrying to a Christianized Indian woman meant legal protection (though only good on paper) from enslavement.) Haiti was the first nation of maroons to form an independent nation, which shocked the slave trading nations of Europe. Thousands of Napoleon troops, to came to squish the rebellion, fell to the yellow fever, which in turn caused France to give up Haiti in the end. Defeat at the Haiti also largely contributed to selling off at a bargain the large chunk of America in the Louisiana Purchase. American diseases then were largely responsible for bringing about American Independence and the Louisiana Purchase! The maroons forms many parts of the present Mexico. The maroons called Quilombolas in Amazon jungles were only recently acknowledged formally by Brazilian government. It appears that they have finally gained freedom but they are facing the industrial globalization that threatens their livelihood through deforestation for timber. The struggles of the maroons continues. It must be underscored once again: That from silver extracted through devastation of Indian land and forced slavery arose the Spanish world power; and that from the equally devastating African slavery that cultivated tobacco and sugar came the Western commerce and imperialism. Also It is also from the forced Indian labor in South America the rubber was extracted and brought to England to fuel the industrial revolution, as rubber was one of the three essential elements of the Industrial Revolution along with steel and fossil fuel. The atrocities committed to the Amazonian indians by the rubber industry--even to the present day--not to mention the environmental disasters, must be underscored. Thanks to the Columbus exchange, the rubber production became truly global, as Indonesia and southern China are nowadays aggressively cultivating the foreign trees, driving away the forests and the animals. In short, there was (and still is) enormous human cost to the rise of western imperialism and wealth. The wealth of London, Paris, Madrid, and other European cities sailed on the blood of the American Indians and African slaves. The Western rise and dominance had nothing to do with free trade, the efficiency of capitalism, or the Western technology and ingenuity. Until Columbus landed in America, the Incas and China had the most advanced civilizations known to the world at the time. (Charles Mann's previous book, 1491, offers the most up-to-date account of the perished but once dynamic and thriving Indian civilizations that once dominated in the American landscape.) The present demographic dominance of Caucasians in North America will be short lived; and the world will become increasingly \"homogenescene.\" And the affects of the Columbus exchange will continue for better or for worse. Wealth accumulated off the back of the poor gamblers, as seen in the skylines of Las Vegas, and a society promoting such accumulation of wealth (such as in the US) cannot be sustained economically and morally. \u00a0But such phenomenon is not only a deviation and anomaly of capitalism (an honest result of a free market economy, as some would say!) but, I submit in light of reading this book, a global phenomenon inaugurated by the \"Columbus exchange,\" the exchange which made such usurpation possible in a global scale. \u00a0Structurally, there is no difference between the way in which the wealth of Las Vegas was obtained (from the back of the poor) from how the wealth of the colonial imperialism of the West was won (off the back of the wretched Indians and African slaves), thanks to the Columbus exchange. \u00a0Wealth by usurpation of the poor and the weak must be the overarching theme of world history from ancient times to modern or post modern capitalism. The Columbus exchange locked the world globally forever in this inextricable chain of economic and political injustice. ...more This fascinating, authoritative book describes the \"Columbian Exchange\" after Columbus' \"discovery\" of the Americas. The book describes the exchange of people, products, plants, animals, and micro-organisms between the Americas and the rest of the world. Much of the book discusses the growth and trade of tobacco, potatoes, tomatoes, corn, silver, sugar, slaves, mosquitoes, smallpox, guano and rubber. Charles Mann emphasizes the unintended consequences of this trade. The book is peppered with int This fascinating, authoritative book describes the \"Columbian Exchange\" after Columbus' \"discovery\" of the Americas. The book describes the exchange of people, products, plants, animals, and micro-organisms between the Americas and the rest of the world. Much of the book discusses the growth and trade of tobacco, potatoes, tomatoes, corn, silver, sugar, slaves, mosquitoes, smallpox, guano and rubber. Charles Mann emphasizes the unintended consequences of this trade. The book is peppered with interesting facts. In England, for example, it was much more lucrative for rich people to hire indentured servants than to buy slaves. However, until the 19th century, twice as many slaves were brought to the Americas as Europeans, largely due to the fact that Africans were less susceptible to malaria! Jamestown was the American settlement where African slaves were first bought. Jamestown was a project of a private investment company; huge amounts of capital and large numbers of English people went there. Most of the people perished, due to arrogance and incompetence. Spanish conquistadors displayed amazing inhumanity to the populations they encountered in the Americas--not just by modern standards, but even by the standards of their time. Even the Spanish rulers recognized the inhumanity, and tried unsuccessfully to rein in the Spanish atrocities. Mexico City was the first truly international metropolis, inhabited by people from all the continents. The Chinese economy during this time period was a mess. Incoming rulers would periodically invalidate the currency, and replace it with new currency, thus bankrupting the nation with impunity, all for the sake of personal vanity. Silver from Bolivia helped to temporarily stabilize the economy, before wrecking it again. Many other reviewers have compared 1493 to Charles Mann's earlier book 1491 , which details the Americas before Columbus. However, one should not view 1493 as simply a continuation of 1491 , as 1493 is just as much about the \"old world\" as it is about the new. One can view 1493 as being primarily about unintended consequences, both good and bad, for the new world as well as for the old world. ...more In 1491 Mann explored the newest findings about what the Americas were actually like before the \"Old World\" set foot on it (as opposed to the dated perceptions that we can't seem to easily shake loose). Now Mann explores how the world reacted, and was affected, by this meeting. I can't even begin to summarize what information is covered here, but here is a list of things that are discussed: potatoes, tomatoes, tobacco, sugar, rubber, gum, rum, Madeira, mosquitoes, malaria, yellow fever, smallpox, In 1491 Mann explored the newest findings about what the Americas were actually like before the \"Old World\" set foot on it (as opposed to the dated perceptions that we can't seem to easily shake loose). Now Mann explores how the world reacted, and was affected, by this meeting. I can't even begin to summarize what information is covered here, but here is a list of things that are discussed: potatoes, tomatoes, tobacco, sugar, rubber, gum, rum, Madeira, mosquitoes, malaria, yellow fever, smallpox, silver, guano, Africans, Indians, the Chinese, Spaniards, Basque miners, slavery, pirates, and a lot more. We may know a little about each of these subjects but here their connections are explained and, even better, the consequences and results of those connections are fully explored. To say this is exceptionally interesting would be an understatement. A lot of the information presented here is new to me, or at least new in the sense that what I learned as separate histories is shown here to have connections that were never explicitly pointed out (and I never would have guessed at). (Case in point, everyone is taught that the Spanish mined South America for its silver, but who ever pointed out that half of that silver ended up in China? And the reasons why it ended up there? And the impact it had there? Etc.) The author does reference this book, but I'm pretty sure he expands on the original idea rather than simply rehashing it(and if I ever read that book, I'll insert an update about that here). I consider this a far more historically dense book than 1491 since the cultural and biological exchanges between the Old and New Worlds, as can be guessed, was (and continues to be) very complicated. This is just as much a worthy sequel to 1491 as 1491 is a worthy 'prequel' to this book. ...more Most elementary school children today are taught the basic gist of what is now known as the 'Columbian exchange' - the exchange of goods, people, and trading routes between Europe, Africa, and the American colonies of the New World. Most often, this is depicted as a neat triangle, and only one good being sent across the trading route. Apart from being a simplification, this vastly understates the importance of this grand exchange. We can say, without any fear of exaggeration, that the course of w Most elementary school children today are taught the basic gist of what is now known as the 'Columbian exchange' - the exchange of goods, people, and trading routes between Europe, Africa, and the American colonies of the New World. Most often, this is depicted as a neat triangle, and only one good being sent across the trading route. Apart from being a simplification, this vastly understates the importance of this grand exchange. We can say, without any fear of exaggeration, that the course of world history was changed forever, and in more ways that any of the discoverers or conquistadors or traders could have ever imagined. Obviously, anybody in the Western Hemisphere has this to thank. But let me list too briefly a few of the effects described: 1) Massive exchange of foodstuffs back and forth, allowing the populations of Europe and East Asia to swell massively. 2) The rise and fall of indentured service and slavery. 3) Massive exchange of microorganisms and small animals - the introduction of earthworms and bees to the New World, and disease back and forth across both. 4) The natural resources and economic background which allowed the Industrial Revolution to develop. Steel, rubber, and Fossil Fuels. Without the Columbian Exchange, it's doubtful if we'd have one of these. In effect, Mann concludes that we have created a 'Homogenocene Age', where the world is environmentally homogeneous, as much as being economically unified. We are still feeling the effects of this. It is still to early to tell what the ultimate result of 1492 will be. This is a tremendously informative and very fluidly written and researched history of everything. The minutest subjects have the greatest possible influences. Thoughts that come on dove's feet guide the world. Emphatically recommended. Note: 1491 is not needed to read this first, but it's still great anyway! ...more Maybe not quite as good as 1491? But probably just because I was more interested in the subject matter there. Once again, Mann has written a kickass book. I really dig this guy. Well written and mind expanding tour of the economic and ecological changes that were set in motion in the centuries after Columbus' landing in the New World. The interconnectedness of the world is elucidated in Mann's dizzying excursions to the European colonies in the Americas and Caribbean, Africa, and China. The roots of globalization are to be found in the so-called \"Columbian Exchange\", the transfer of peoples, plants, domesticated animals, agricultural practices, and diseases between cont Well written and mind expanding tour of the economic and ecological changes that were set in motion in the centuries after Columbus' landing in the New World. The interconnectedness of the world is elucidated in Mann's dizzying excursions to the European colonies in the Americas and Caribbean, Africa, and China. The roots of globalization are to be found in the so-called \"Columbian Exchange\", the transfer of peoples, plants, domesticated animals, agricultural practices, and diseases between continents. Mann has a fresh perspective on the blending of peoples and cultures. His coverage of the enslavement of black Africans and subjugation and slaughter of Native Americans by the colonials goes beyond the portrayal of these peoples as passive victims without \"agency\". He highlights how Indians fought back successfully many times before successful colonies were established, and diseases such as smallpox and influenza and the colonist's exploitation of intertribal competition often sealed their fate. Africans accompanied Europeans from the earliest expeditions, and in most colonies they outnumbered them. Examples from Santo Domingo, Brazil, Panama, and Florida highlight how from the beginning escape and establishment of guerilla bases with renegade Indians sowed the seeds of their eventual independence. The key role of malaria and yellow fever in the growth of black slavery is a major source of speculative exploration by Mann. The delusion of early explorers to America that China could be readily reached was a pervasive theme that in some senses was soon realized. Mann balances the story and impact of the transfer of tobacco, corn, and potatoes from the Americas to Europe and Asia with that of the introduction of wheat, sugar, coffee, and domestic animals to the colonies. The new agricultural bounty is associated with population explosions in Europe and China, but at the same time the changes are linked to famines and floods wrought by transferred pests and negative ecological consequences of deforestation and the dependence of industrial agriculture on a few vulnerable crops. The boom-and-bust history of rubber is nicely told, as is the economic bonanza of guano as the first industrial fertilizer. Overall, this lengthy, but readable, book is a great accomplishment as a synthesis of trends that make the modern world what it is today. ...more Loved this book! For every sentence I read in it, author Charles C. Mann read hundreds, and he has the bibliography to prove it. I loved it for two reasons: I love the sweeping overview of human *everything* that Mann provides: foods, migration, slavery, the global trade that preceded--in fact, led to--Columbus's discovery of the New World. And I loved it because it told me so much I didn't know: how the discovery of the potato, in the New World, saved the population of Europe from, if not exactl Loved this book! For every sentence I read in it, author Charles C. Mann read hundreds, and he has the bibliography to prove it. I loved it for two reasons: I love the sweeping overview of human *everything* that Mann provides: foods, migration, slavery, the global trade that preceded--in fact, led to--Columbus's discovery of the New World. And I loved it because it told me so much I didn't know: how the discovery of the potato, in the New World, saved the population of Europe from, if not exactly starvation, then chronic malnutrition. And while I suppose that any assertion like that is open to debate, Mann cites a statue the Nazis destroyed. The statue,in Germany, depicted English pirate/adventurer Sir Francis Drake, holding a potato. Mann insists that Columbus was trying to find China, not India. I'm a little baffled by that - if that's the case, then why didn't they call the people they found Chinese, not Indians? - but he makes a case for China as the supplier of the world's goods even before Columbus set sail. This book upended an assumption I held, unknown to me, that Europe was a dominant world power in the 1400s. It also gave me a much more vivid understanding of the cultures that existed in South America before the Spanish conquest of that continent. There is one section--the Spanish trading with the Chinese in the Philippines--that vividly describes the chaos and bustle of international trade. I could picture the boats and the enclave. There was also a lot of eye-opening information about the native Americans the immigrants to North America found. The native people had a lot of diverse cultures, but what struck me was the news, to me, that one group routinely burned forest undergrowth to make the woods clear for hunting, travel, and agriculture. An author undertaking a book like this, it seems to me, has to decide which authorities he finds most persuasive, and assert their findings. I imagine scholars in the hundreds of specialties that Mann touches upon are itching to correct or refine what he says. But never mind; he has given me a whole scaffolding upon which to base new knowledge. ...more Mann documents the Columbian Exchange, the beginning of globalization. Fifteenth century Europe, desirous of Chinese silk and porcelain, was blocked to the east by hostile Muslim countries. Columbus embarked to find a western route. Within 100 years global trade with China and the Americas was underway and the Columbian Exchange was firmly established. Silver mined in Bolivia by slaves brought in from Africa was shipped to China for silk and porcelain shipped to Spain via Mexico and Panama. Anot Mann documents the Columbian Exchange, the beginning of globalization. Fifteenth century Europe, desirous of Chinese silk and porcelain, was blocked to the east by hostile Muslim countries. Columbus embarked to find a western route. Within 100 years global trade with China and the Americas was underway and the Columbian Exchange was firmly established. Silver mined in Bolivia by slaves brought in from Africa was shipped to China for silk and porcelain shipped to Spain via Mexico and Panama. Another example is the shipment of Virginia tobacco and Caribbean sugar to every corner of the globe in return for finished goods, farm animals and slaves. Riding along with the silk, porcelain, tobacco leaf, sugar, silver, farm animals and slaves were wild animals, plants and microbes dramatically changing the ecosystems of their new homes where they often faced no natural enemies. The native population of Hispaniola, where Columbus established his first permanent settlement, was decimated by disease as invasive insects and pathogens ran amok. Likewise native populations of North America were reduced to a fraction of their original numbers. Mann speculates that this depopulation led to the little ice age in the sixteenth century. The Indians had been clearing extensive areas through burning. With far fewer Indians the North American forests regenerated. As the forests grew back they sucked carbon dioxide out of the air. Global cooling was the result. The Columbian Exchange transformed cultures. For example North American Plains Indians became nomads as they mastered Spanish horses creating the image we have today of the Apache and Comanche. Lifestyles of people around the world were radically altered. New food plants spread everywhere and people half a world apart began farming the same genetically similar crops which were vulnerable to the same pests and diseases. Diversity declined. This post 1492 world Mann calls the Homogenocine. Mann selectively explores consequences of the Columbian Exchange. He ties everything from famine in Ireland to the fall of the Ming dynasty to the Exchange. The settlements in Hispaniola and Jamestown, the spread of malaria and yellow fever, the development of tobacco and sugar farming in the new world, and even a brief history of the Ming dynasty\u2019s wars with pirates get special coverage. Changes in China were dramatic. Diets for many Chinese shifted from rice and beans to sweet potatoes and corn which grew where traditional crops would not. This led to rapid population growth, over farming, deforestation, flooding and civil unrest. Reliance on the silver trade, a key component of the Columbian exchange furthered political instability hastening the demise of the Ming dynasty in 1644. Using silver as the official medium of exchange meant control of the money supply was impossible. Much of China\u2019s wealth was squandered purchasing silver. Europe also was destabilized by the Columbian Exchange. Potatoes became a staple crop extending the Malthusian trap which finally caught up with Ireland in the 1840\u2019s with dire consequences. The potato fueled rapid population growth becoming the only solid food 40% of Irishmen consumed. When another Columbian exchange import, the potato blight, hit the genetically similar potatoes, they all quickly succumbed. The ensuing famine led to mass migration changing the course of US history as well as Ireland\u2019s. Mann also traces the guano trade from South America which initiated large scale fertilizer use greatly increasing European crop yields and population. He even shows how the Colorado potato beetle led to the development of pesticides, first arsenic then DDT. Mann explores the exploitation of the Amazon and its residents beginning with tapping rubber trees in the forest which eventually gave way to the development of the rubber plantation industry. Henry Ford established a huge plantation in the Amazon, which after a bad start was finished off by the South American leaf blight. India and Indonesia established plantations that got off to better starts but they too got hit by the leaf blight. They had selected high yielding trees that turned out to have little resistance. Recently China has deforested huge areas of its own land for rubber plantations. China is expanding its rubber plantation operations to Laos and Thailand where it exploits locals with one sided contracts. These new plantations are already sucking the water out of the native forest forcing people out of their traditional way of life. In the end the South American leaf blight will find its way there. The story just goes on as short term profit trumps all. The Columbian Exchange included people as well as plants, animals and microbes creating the first global urban center, Mexico City. It mixed together Europeans, Africans, Asians, and of course Native Americans. Intermarriage between the different races was widespread. The Spanish established elaborate categories to try to distinguish those of mixed heritage based on the particular mix. Mestizo (Indo European), mulatto (Afro European) and zambo (Afro Indian) were just the beginning. When these groups mixed with each other, the Spanish even had labels for the further mixed offspring. For example, the child of a Spaniard and a mestizo was a called a castizo. It wasn\u2019t long before those with a single heritage were few and far between. Something often not fully appreciated is that more Africans than Europeans initially came to the Americas even though it wasn\u2019t their choice. Slavery was driven by the tobacco farms in the US and even more significantly the huge Caribbean and South American sugar plantations and mining operations. Many slaves escaped throughout the Americas and mixed with exploited Indian tribes. Mann contends that very likely escaped African slaves saw the Pacific from Panama before Balboa. The Indians and former slaves formed new communities and developed new cultures throughout the Americas. One example was Palmares in Brazil which defied constant Portuguese attacks for 90 years in the seventeenth century before succumbing. In other cases these new groups would overwhelm their European exploiters as in the 1804 revolution in Haiti. The slaves were typically prisoners of war captured in fighting between African tribes who sold them to Europeans. They were fighting men who would escape and seek retribution against their exploiters. They intermarried with Native Americans creating formidable new groups with their combined skill sets. The Columbian Exchange changed the concept of slavery. Prior to 1493, slave-owners typically had contact with their slaves. Africans practiced slavery as well as Europeans and there were established roles for owner and slave. The slave was a human in the lowest category, but still a person like everyone else. Slavery was not considered wrong and did not have to be justified by labelling the slave sub-human. Race was not a concept, as we know it, back then. For Europeans any heathen could be made a slave. Christians could not. Thus Jews, heretics, Indians, Muslims and most Africans were all equal candidates for slavery. The Columbian Exchange changed the practice of slavery. As large plantations were built in the New World with their owners living in Europe the traditional relationship between slave and owner was broken. This was particularly true in the sugar plantations and mines. Slaves were managed by taskmasters who treated slaves like cattle in their drive to meet profit expectations and quotas set by owners far away who didn\u2019t have to see the human consequences. The slave trade in Africa developed to supply the huge numbers needed. African slaves were particularly valuable because they were more resistant to malaria and yellow fever that was ravaging the New World. Mann\u2019s history is wide ranging, a potpourri of the fallout from Columbus\u2019 discovery of the New World. It is a fascinating read although not tightly crafted and not as well done in my opinion as his earlier 1491 . Still he makes his case. Today as we struggle with the effects of 21st century globalization, it is worthwhile to look back at how it all started. ...more \u201cColumbus\u2019s voyage did not mark the discovery of a new world, but its creation.\u201d So claims Charles Mann in his impressive 1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created. After reading the book, I can\u2019t help but agree. Mann builds on the work of scholars like Alfred Crosby, who posited that \u201c[a]fter Columbus, ecosystems that had been separate for eons suddenly met and mixed in a process\u201d he called \u201cthe Columbian Exchange.\u201d While being \u201cneither fully controlled nor understood by its participants,\u201d \u201cColumbus\u2019s voyage did not mark the discovery of a new world, but its creation.\u201d So claims Charles Mann in his impressive 1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created. After reading the book, I can\u2019t help but agree. Mann builds on the work of scholars like Alfred Crosby, who posited that \u201c[a]fter Columbus, ecosystems that had been separate for eons suddenly met and mixed in a process\u201d he called \u201cthe Columbian Exchange.\u201d While being \u201cneither fully controlled nor understood by its participants,\u201d the exchange \u201ctook corn (maize) to Africa and sweet potatoes to East Asia, horses and apples to the Americas, and rhubarb and eucalyptus to Europe\u2014and also swapped about a host of less-familiar organisms like insects, grasses, bacteria, and viruses.\u201d It also moved people all around the globe. Sound like something you\u2019ve heard before? The core argument may not be new, but the examples Mann uses to bolster his take on it are fascinating. For instance, when revisiting the effects of European diseases on Native Americans (which he examined at length in 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus), Mann makes the case that the Columbian Exchange may have temporarily helped cause \u201ctoday\u2019s climate change in reverse.\u201d Specifically, the Little Ice Age of 1550-1750 (or so), which brought hard winters, late springs, and bad harvests to the Northern Hemisphere, might have been a secondary consequence of the mass death of Native Americans: prior to Europeans\u2019 arrival, Native Americans used fire to shape their surroundings, regularly burning forests on such a scale that for \u201cweeks on end, smoke from Indian bonfires shrouded Florida, California, and the Great Plains.\u201d But after smallpox and other plagues took their devastating toll, the fires diminished, resulting in less CO2 in the atmosphere, more trees to reduce the CO2 that remained, and a colder climate. Then there\u2019s the role malaria (and to a lesser degree, yellow fever) likely played in the rise of the Atlantic slave trade. This other \u201cOld World\u201d disease was no friendlier to Native Americans, but it flourished in the warmer areas of the Americas so virulently that European colonists died there in droves. But Africans\u2019 inherited and acquired resistances to the illness meant that, \u201cbiologically speaking, they were fitter, which is another way of saying that in these places they were\u2014loaded words!\u2014genetically superior.\u201d Sadly, Africans\u2019 immunity \u201cbecame a wellspring for their enslavement,\u201d since for (unscrupulous) Europeans \u201cthe economic logic was hard to ignore. If they wanted to grow tobacco, rice, or sugar, they were better off using African slaves than European indentured servants or Indian slaves.\u201d Not coincidentally, the \u201cMason-Dixon line roughly split the East Coast into two zones, one in which falciparum malaria was an endemic threat, and one in which it was not.\u201d And that\u2019s just for starters: 1493 goes on to delve into the Galleon Trade and chart how Spanish silver from the brutal mining town of Potos\u00ed, Bolivia knit the world together like never before, financing wars in Europe and fueling a debilitating currency crisis in China, long the world\u2019s largest economy. Next, Mann tracks the impact of crop migrations (like the introduction of Andean potatoes into Europe), the birth of the \u201cagro-industrial complex,\u201d the race for Amazonian rubber, and finally the \u201cextraordinary cultural mix that slavery inadvertently promoted.\u201d Mann\u2019s writing is excellent, and the book is stuffed with devastating details, such as the tidbit that, when officials at the Peruvian mine of Huancavelica dug up the graves of their conscripted Native American workers in 1605, they found that the miners\u2019 corpses left behind puddles of inhaled mercury. But while Mann claims in his prologue that \u201cglobalization brought both enormous economic gains and ecological and social tumult that threatened to offset those gains,\u201d and later that \u201cthe huge benefits of moving species outweigh the huge harms,\u201d his emphasis is decidedly on the negative aspects. In short, 1493 isn\u2019t\u2014and doesn\u2019t pretend to be\u2014a comprehensive account of the roots of the modern world. It\u2019s just a damn good one. (For more reviews like this one, see www.nickwisseman.com ) ...more I'm sure this is less than a perfect picture of all the nuanced history involved -- it wouldn't be pop history if it weren't. But in that Jared Diamond kind of mold, this is quite a book. The argument runs: Columbus may not have had any idea what he was doing, but he's still the genesis of an entirely changed world -- a world connected all the way round, economically and (and here's the kicker) therefore biologically. You make a world market, you remake Pangaea, extremely messily. Each chapter ju I'm sure this is less than a perfect picture of all the nuanced history involved -- it wouldn't be pop history if it weren't. But in that Jared Diamond kind of mold, this is quite a book. The argument runs: Columbus may not have had any idea what he was doing, but he's still the genesis of an entirely changed world -- a world connected all the way round, economically and (and here's the kicker) therefore biologically. You make a world market, you remake Pangaea, extremely messily. Each chapter just takes a thread and runs with it, peppering you with hundreds of fascinating shards of history, so you're not getting a summary. Instead, big themes are: proto-globalization, and the first world consumer crazes; tracking Andean silver as it hyperinflates one currency after another (Spain, of course, but CHINA far worse); The Philippines as the place the West finally pulled off Columbus' gambit and found the East from behind; the invention of the Chinatown from Manila to Mexico City; potatoes as they travel out of the Inka homeland (one tiny clone fragment of an intensely biodiverse cloud of species) and give the Irish vastly better nutrition (and famine); sweet potatoes as they make huge portions of western China suddenly farmable, then cause their OWN famine; The way the Triangular Trade/chattel slavery and the silver/silk trade with the East were intimately linked; Malaria, also known as the reason New World jungles were a great place to live until we showed up; Malaria, also known as one of the things that shaped the creation plantation economies filled with slaves from West Africa; Slavery, a violent forced immigration which DWARFED any such movements to the new-found continents by white Europeans until the Victorian Era. In all, a pretty fascinating book. A bit too globalization-is-just-a-force-of-nature/Thomas Friedman, and a bit too cute with its modern-day correspondences, but intense food for thought. Also, worth noting that Chinese emissaries from a Ming Dynasty emperor showed up in Manila demanding the truth of rumors of a magical mountain of gold and silver where precious metals were free for the asking. The Spanish posted there were so taken aback that they massacred the entire trade settlement. This happened a lot, apparently. It's an unfathomable world, folks. We just live here. ...more Like his previous work, 1491, the author uses Christopher Columbus\u2019s European discovery of the New World as a pivotal point in history; in this case, what changes occurred to our world in the wake of this momentous discovery? The task of deciding which threads of history are worth writing about is no less daunting than the act of retracing each significant event that will elucidate and enhance his story. By organizing his history into four main categories Mann is able to get a hold of this unwie Like his previous work, 1491, the author uses Christopher Columbus\u2019s European discovery of the New World as a pivotal point in history; in this case, what changes occurred to our world in the wake of this momentous discovery? The task of deciding which threads of history are worth writing about is no less daunting than the act of retracing each significant event that will elucidate and enhance his story. By organizing his history into four main categories Mann is able to get a hold of this unwieldy subject. After that it becomes similar to reverse engineering a complex mechanical device as he tries to trace each noteworthy change in our environment since the time of Columbus\u2019s discovery. First there are the diseases like malaria and yellow fever; then there are the botanical swaps that occur, like the use of maize, potatoes, and peppers; and the human changes like the introduction of Europeans, Africans and Asians to the Western Hemisphere and the subsequent intermingling of these races with the indigenous population. Prior to Mann\u2019s 1943 these changes were referred to as the \u201cColumbian Exchange.\u201d Mann also refers to it as the homogenecene, or if you will, the homogenization of species on our planet. The story is full of surprises and because it has been so well researched it should be regarded as a welcome addition to the history section of any library. ...more So, so glad I was able to get my hands on this during the summer. I read the predecessor, 1491, because Mann came to Wilmington as the Honors Spring Speaker. This book seemed less dry than 1491 but also less mind blowing. Perhaps this was a result of hearing Mann's speech in which he mostly talked about 1493. Perhaps this was a result of taking AP Euro in high school. I knew a lot of what the book talked about based on Mann's speech, though the details he had not included were still interesting. So, so glad I was able to get my hands on this during the summer. I read the predecessor, 1491, because Mann came to Wilmington as the Honors Spring Speaker. This book seemed less dry than 1491 but also less mind blowing. Perhaps this was a result of hearing Mann's speech in which he mostly talked about 1493. Perhaps this was a result of taking AP Euro in high school. I knew a lot of what the book talked about based on Mann's speech, though the details he had not included were still interesting. I also enjoyed the tangents he went on in regards to European, African, Indian, and Asian history. From this book (and 1491) you will gain a greater knowledge of the before and after American (and by American I mean the NORTH and SOUTH American, not U.S.) picture than you would ever have gained from your somewhat sanitized AP Euro or AP US History class. Great read, very fascinating. Thanks again for expanding on what I know and changing what I thought I knew, Mr. Mann. ...more This was great engaging writing from an author I really admire. 1493 gives a fantastic overview of the kind of changes the globe has seen after Columbus landed in the New World and started what would be called the Columbian Exchange. Boy can Mann can weave a narrative, like how his grandfather's decision to buy a Philippine mahogany dining table might have led to ecological catastrophe by introducing invasive earthworms into the Philippines that destroyed the rice field terraces. Or how Potosi in This was great engaging writing from an author I really admire. 1493 gives a fantastic overview of the kind of changes the globe has seen after Columbus landed in the New World and started what would be called the Columbian Exchange. Boy can Mann can weave a narrative, like how his grandfather's decision to buy a Philippine mahogany dining table might have led to ecological catastrophe by introducing invasive earthworms into the Philippines that destroyed the rice field terraces. Or how Potosi in 16th Century Bolivia was probably the first boom town in the wild west. Maybe you wanted to learn about Ford's madcap rubber town in the middle of nowhere Amazonia. Every one of these tales deals with extraordinary humans, and how effects such as globalization and disease, slavery and colonialism, played a much a larger role in actually shaping all our lives. This is an extraordinary book. Read it. ...more COLUMBIAN EXCHANGE, CHARLES C MANN, SLAVERY Nothing Stands Alone In Fleshed Out Tweets, Thoughtful- Items I'd Like you to Read on September 26, 2011 at 10:48 am Rate This Anyone who has ever received one of my tweets or is in my FB circle this week is aware that I am obsessing about \u201c1493\u201c by Charles Mann. His prior book, that I read, \u201c1491\u201c describes the Western Hemisphere just prior to interaction with Europeans. The gist of 1491 is that European technology and numbers were insufficient to conque COLUMBIAN EXCHANGE, CHARLES C MANN, SLAVERY Nothing Stands Alone In Fleshed Out Tweets, Thoughtful- Items I'd Like you to Read on September 26, 2011 at 10:48 am Rate This Anyone who has ever received one of my tweets or is in my FB circle this week is aware that I am obsessing about \u201c1493\u201c by Charles Mann. His prior book, that I read, \u201c1491\u201c describes the Western Hemisphere just prior to interaction with Europeans. The gist of 1491 is that European technology and numbers were insufficient to conquer the native peoples of the Americas at the end of the 15th century. The number of indigenous peoples and the sophistication of their cultures far exceeds what was taught in school when I was a kid. The myth of virgin wilderness in the Americas is just that a myth. The forests of the amazon and of North America were carefully tended agricultural plots, maintained by a large and advanced population exploiting and husbanding both animal and plants. Had the Indians been resistant to European Diseases such as Small Pox the Europeans would have barely made a toe hold and would have stacked up on the shores as isolated trading ventures. It is entirely possible that in time Europe could have mustered the forces to invade, however in the interim the exchange of trade goods and specifically weapons would have rapidly diminished the European advantage. 1493 is a careful analysis of \u201cunintended consequences\u201d of the \u201cColumbian Exchange.\u201d Far reaching it offers up new explanations of \u201cthe Little Ice Age\u201c, Chinese isolationism and African Slavery in a suddenly globally connected world. Some of it is, at first glance, quaint- who knew there were no earth worms in the North East? Some of it scary- the introduction of the earth worm completely changed the ecology of the forests. Indentured servants as agricultural workers make for a better economic model- until you factor in their mortality rates from malaria, which the English introduced at which point African Slaves become viable economically. Who knew that England was a malarial miasma? The Chinese weren\u2019t necessarily isolationists- prior to Spanish Silver extracted from South America coming to market- Europe offered nothing that interested the Chinese. The quirky factoids are enjoyable, the thoughtful analysis is an exercise in delving deep. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed Mann's other book on this general topic, 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, so I was quite keen to read this one. 1491 charted the history of America before Columbus' arrival and the dramatic changes that occured as a result. 1493 is in effect an expansion on a theory expounded in 1491, what is known as the Columbian Exchange. Whilst 1491 dwelt almost solely on the impact of Columbus' discovery of the America on the original inhabitants, 1493takes a globa I thoroughly enjoyed Mann's other book on this general topic, 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, so I was quite keen to read this one. 1491 charted the history of America before Columbus' arrival and the dramatic changes that occured as a result. 1493 is in effect an expansion on a theory expounded in 1491, what is known as the Columbian Exchange. Whilst 1491 dwelt almost solely on the impact of Columbus' discovery of the America on the original inhabitants, 1493takes a global look at the impact of the Columbian Exchange, a worldwide translocation of people, plants, animals, pests and diseases as a result of the sudden contact between two previous disparate hemispheres. Crops previously indigeonous to the Americas becames staples across the world - potatoes. maize and tomatoes in Europe, peanut and manioc in Africa, rubber to Southeast Asia. And that's not mentioning the introduction of malaria and yellow fever to the Americas, or animals such as the horse and cow, even the honey bee! The impact in some places is staggering. Even something as small as an earthworm can destroy millennia-old systems of agriculture in less than a decade. It's quite sobering, in fact, just how much of an impact the introduction of one species to a new area can have on the native plants and animals. Dutch Elm Disease, for example, is a direct result of the Columbian Exchange. The potato blight is another. Grey squirrels in the British Isles driving out the native red population. Kudzu vine in America is another. This is a fascinating read, as I've come to expect from Mann, to see just how much the world has shrunk and homogenised over time. Plants that seem such a fixture of particular countries, like tomatoes in Italy or potatoes in Ireland, are in fact 'exotic' imports. The potato in particular had an immense effect on the population in Europe, and yet one hardly reads about it in the history books. I would personally make this book required reading for schools and colleges. It's an immensely important study, and reading the impact of what Mann calls the Homogenocene Era from a global perspective makes you realise just how small our world is now and how inter-connected. And how, one way or the other, we will all rise and fall together. ...more This is a rambling, fascinating analysis of the origins of globalization and what Mann calls the \"homogenocene,\" the homogenization of ecologies around the world since Columbus \"discovered\" the New World, and malaria was exchanged for potatoes, to oversimplify just a tad. Mann offers a balanced account of the benefit of this globalization that has been going on for centuries, and which if we have ever eaten tomatoes or corn, for example, we have benefited from. But he's far from blind to its oft This is a rambling, fascinating analysis of the origins of globalization and what Mann calls the \"homogenocene,\" the homogenization of ecologies around the world since Columbus \"discovered\" the New World, and malaria was exchanged for potatoes, to oversimplify just a tad. Mann offers a balanced account of the benefit of this globalization that has been going on for centuries, and which if we have ever eaten tomatoes or corn, for example, we have benefited from. But he's far from blind to its often appalling costs. For example, the potted history of Sao Tome and Principe that he gives in the course of a few pages is one of the most depressing accounts of centuries of human greed, exploitation and misery I've read (the plantation system there served as a kind of model for slavery in the Americas). There are plenty of eye-opening surprises here. I was entirely ignorant of the fact that the first cowboys in the Americas were African slaves (probably on Cortes's vast estate South of Mexico City), and that indeed the cowboy tradition of freedom and reliance on nobody originated (oversimplifying again a bit obviously) not in the Western US, but on the plains of West Africa, with its millennia-old traditions of horsemanship and cattle tending. And there are also plenty of rather inspiring stories here of resistance of escaped African slaves and American Indians and other outsiders who established communities that managed in some cases to stay more or less under the radar into the present century. Another of the nuggets among tons of engrossing accounts that struck me was the fact that the Muslim solution in the Middle East to the fact that sugar production from sugar cane required intensive, readily available labor was to pay workers very well, so that they would be encouraged to stay. The Christian Europeans, who discovered sugar through the first Crusade, came up with their own, appalling solution to this labor problem. ...more Excellent book by the author of 1491. Everything in the world changed with Columbus's discovery of the America's. Globalization did not begin today or in the last 100 years. Globalization began immediately when Columbus stepped food on Hispaniola. The Americas were filled with cultures and innumerable people. Globalization led to the import of measles, small pox, and ever malaria. Defenseless natives fell quickly to these invisible invaders. Potatoes, native to the Americas, were exported all ove Excellent book by the author of 1491. Everything in the world changed with Columbus's discovery of the America's. Globalization did not begin today or in the last 100 years. Globalization began immediately when Columbus stepped food on Hispaniola. The Americas were filled with cultures and innumerable people. Globalization led to the import of measles, small pox, and ever malaria. Defenseless natives fell quickly to these invisible invaders. Potatoes, native to the Americas, were exported all over the world. Invasive species are everywhere, not just kudzu but all of the products in our farms and gardens. Interesting facts abound, there were no earthworms in North America. They were all killed in the ice age, but returned to this country, unknowingly by European settlers. When the first settlers arrived, they saw no fences and no European type fields, but the native Americans were excellent farmers. Their fields just looked different - they planted many different crops in the same place - peaceful coexistence, so what looked to be just scrub and forest, were in fact organized farming communities. Mann delves into slavery. How did African wind up being slaves? Mann's thesis is invaluable. We forget the scourges of malaria and yellow fever. Many Africans were immune to these plagues. Therefore, they were able to exist in tropical climates. Europeans, on the other hand, died very quickly when they arrived in America. Settlers died in frigthful numbers. Settlers needed to be \"seasoned.\" The Mason Dixon really separated malarial lands to the south from colder climes to the north. Therefore, slavery flourished in the south and never really took hold in the north. Fascinating book on how the world became what it is. ...more The older I get the more I understand the inter-connectedness of history. Mann, using a huge variety of sources, pulls together the way Columbus's \"discovery\" of the New World set in motion the way our world is connected today, from ecology, through food (can you say pizza?), slavery, and disease, to economics and political processes. I really liked this book, especially since it didn't just focus on the Europe to South America angle, but brought in the thriving trade with China. Mann admits that The older I get the more I understand the inter-connectedness of history. Mann, using a huge variety of sources, pulls together the way Columbus's \"discovery\" of the New World set in motion the way our world is connected today, from ecology, through food (can you say pizza?), slavery, and disease, to economics and political processes. I really liked this book, especially since it didn't just focus on the Europe to South America angle, but brought in the thriving trade with China. Mann admits that he left out many countries in the interests of simplifying a complex concept, but the book was very satisfying anyway. I recommend this for people who are even slightly interested in history. The Intro and first chapter were a little slow going, stick with it. They are worth reading in light of later chapters. I especially appreciated Mann's humor--not obtrusive, but fun. ...more This book is only in part a continuation of 1491's description of the Americas before Columbus. Spanning the period from then to the present, it is in part a history of biological exchange, in part a history of trade and, in repeated excurses, in part a history of the globalization of slavery. As regards the latter, most notable is how Mann makes slaves, particularly black slaves, the agents of their own--and the Americas'--history. Much like 1491 , this book features a vague thesis (exchange between the Americas and the rest of the world in the past 500 years has shaped the present) over which Mann drapes digression upon digression, some of them fascinating, others decidedly less so, all thoroughly cited, but few of those citations referring to primary sources. Here's what I found interesting: Chinese demand for silver drove a great deal of European expansion When I think about the motives for European colonialism, I think of Much like 1491 , this book features a vague thesis (exchange between the Americas and the rest of the world in the past 500 years has shaped the present) over which Mann drapes digression upon digression, some of them fascinating, others decidedly less so, all thoroughly cited, but few of those citations referring to primary sources. Here's what I found interesting: Chinese demand for silver drove a great deal of European expansion When I think about the motives for European colonialism, I think of greed, flight from religious persecution, and geopolitical maneuvering. A Chinese capital sink was not on my radar, but Mann did a good job convincing me it played a role. I would have liked to see more exploration of what might have happened without a huge consumer for American silver. Inflation? Also, Chinese currency history and the endless successions of retribution in Potosi? Not that interesting. Summarize, cite, and move on, please. Jamestown was a corporate enterprise, not a government one. This was a minor point in the book, but I hadn't realized one of America's founding colonies wasn't exactly a bunch of people trying to reinvent themselves or the English crown making a land grab, but rather a corporation trying to turn a buck. Corporate greed is more deeply rooted in our history than I thought! Success of old-world tropical diseases predicated social institutions, particularly slavery This was one of his larger points. Aside from the irony that Europeans generally failed to survive in tropical regions of the Americas because of diseases they brought with them from the tropics in other parts of the world, Mann focused primarily on the way these diseases shaped demographics and cultural institutions, drawing mostly from the work of Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson at MIT. Obviously it's hard/impossible to prove disease played a greater role than, say, suitability of an area for crops that can be grown en masse and require a lot of manual labor, but I think Mann successfully summarized the importance of disease. Acemoglu et al's work goes on to explore how differences in social / governmental institutions that were related to disease have influenced current economic success, basically pointing out that colonies where Europeans settled in large numbers are more economically successful today than colonies where they maintained small numbers but employed many slaves (they do a lot to separate the influence of disease on institution forming and the influence of institutions on economic success from other factors that I don't entirely understand, but I believe that's the gist). I wonder how this kind of analysis holds up when applied to US states, comparing slave and non-slave states. American tubers and tobacco facilitated population booms and population expansion into agriculturally marginal areas in China and Europe, facilitating huge social and landscape changes Many people seem surprised to learn that Italians hadn't heard of tomatoes before Columbus, or that the Irish weren't eating potatoes since the dawn of time, or that southeast asians weren't turbo charging their cuisine with hot chilies before Europeans showed up with their wimpy palates. If you're one of those people, be surprised no longer: all these veggies come from the Americas, along with tobacco, sweet potatoes, and corn/maize. If you're a food/history nerd, though, this probably isn't news. What I found interesting was the history of how productive, nutritional crops that could be grown in marginal soil abetted landscape changes in China (migration to hillier terrain, deforestation, increased erosion, catastrophic flooding), and how potatoes assuaged famine and may have effected political stability in European nations as those countries were industrializing and expanding their reach. There were many synthetic communities of escaped African slaves that survived well into the present I was totally unaware of these \"maroon\" cities, so this was definitely interesting. Much as the bulk of 1491 was an effort to illuminate agency among American Indian peoples, these chapters did the same for Africans in the Americas. However, I wanted to see more about how these independent hybrid cultures influenced the present. Candombl\u00e9 was mentioned, along with some of Brazil's other Christianish religions, but it would have been cool to learn about what components of these practices originated in maroon communities and not among slaves. Overall, interesting stuff. I would have liked to see some exploration of one of Mann's least supported assertions in 1491, namely that American democratic principles were influenced by Indian example, but maybe he's saving that for another book. Notes & Words moil (v) : while this is basically synonymous with \"toil,\" apparently it can also mean \"twirl.\" Twirling, apparently, is hard goddamn work. (p. xvi) ensorcel (v): bewitch (p. 5) entrep\u00f4t (n): warehouse or distribution center (p. 8) optative mood (n): like the subjunctive. Actually not clear what the difference is. Maybe optative is a subclass restricted to indicating a desired state? (p. 28) p. 30 Apparently at some point a Swiss bishop exorcised a glacier. Looks like Ladurie 1971 p. 181 is the citation, but it doesn't look like it's been digitized. p. 31 He doesn't dwell on this, but he describes the work of Dull 2010 asserting that Indian die-off lead to massive reforestation b/c of the absence of Indian-managed fire, which lead to massive carbon sequestration out of the atmosphere, which induced a reverse greenhouse effect that influence the Little Ice Age experienced from the 16th century to the 18th. That's pretty wild. Need to read the paper. I think the crux is how they measured carbon released due to burning. anodyne (adj): relieving pain (p. 41) p. 59 \"By women his flesh was scraped from his bones with mussel shells and, before his face, thrown into the fire.\" Ow. Apparently this is from a primary source. inanition (n): starvation, lethargy (p. 61) lagniappe (n): a small bonus added on to a purchase, like a complimentary cookie from Bakesale Betty's (a bakery here in Oakland). Apparently comes from Cajun creole , and may have originated in S. America. Mann used this (to me) unusual word numerous times, yet I don't think he commented on its origins, which seems odd. (p. 142) tisane (n): an aromatic tea (p. 152) p. 197 apparently the word potato comes from the Taino word batata , which means sweet potato (which is unrelated to the potato) sansculotte (n): a poor French revolutionary, literally \"without knee breeches.\" I guess the modern equivalent might be sansipad (totally worth enduring the ad for). p. 213 There exists 554 treatise entitled The Biogeochemistry of Vertebrate Excretion. I can't seem to find a copy online, but I imagine the first page of this review is just as funny. encomium (n): formal high praise (p. 215) p. 240 ullamamalitzli was a Mesoamerican sport played with a rubber ball in which players could only hit the ball with their butt. I was having some trouble visualizing this so YouTube to the rescue . To-read The Columbian Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492 The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor ...more After I finished this book, for some reason I had a strange urge for a Big Mac... Considering I never ever eat fast-food, after reading this book I got a new sense of the world around me, looking differently at all these inventions of industry, society and homogeneity... The 'Homogenocene' - an era of world history triggered by Christopher Columbus' arrival into the new world - a biological era referring to the mixing of unlike substances to create a new blend... From the silver found in the mount After I finished this book, for some reason I had a strange urge for a Big Mac... Considering I never ever eat fast-food, after reading this book I got a new sense of the world around me, looking differently at all these inventions of industry, society and homogeneity... The 'Homogenocene' - an era of world history triggered by Christopher Columbus' arrival into the new world - a biological era referring to the mixing of unlike substances to create a new blend... From the silver found in the mountains of Bolivia which became Chinese currency, to tomatoes originated in South America that found its way as a staple into the Mediterranean diet... And from Europe's sweet tooth that drove an insatiable demand for sugar creating the sugar plantations run by African slaves, to the industrial revolutions need for rubber which gave way to espionage to find the best strains of the tree that would overcome disease leading to wealth.... This book has it all... It's like so many books in one... From the origins of slavery in the Madeira and S\u00e3o Tom\u00e9 islands, and how it thrived below the Mason-Dixon Line in the south of the US, to how it was affected and isolated by the spread of malaria and yellow-fever, eventually freeing the slaves allowing them to create new communities in the new world... It all points to The Colombian Exchange... A huge global shock to the way the planet has existed with its natural course of evolution... American history often describes Europeans entering a nearly empty wilderness.... However for centuries after the discovery of the new world, most of the newcomers were African, and the land was not empty, but filled with millions of indigenous people... \"Much of the great encounter between the two halves of the world thus was less a meeting of Europe and America than a meeting of Africans and Indians - a relationship forged both in the cage of slavery and the uprising against it.\" As the author so eloquently explains, Christopher Columbus did not discover the new world, instead with the Homogenocene, he created it. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed this book. So why did I give it only one star??!! Well, I'll tell you. First the good: this is a wide-sweeping review of what Mr. Mann calls the homogenocene - the result of Colombus discovering America and the worldwide mixing of plants, animals, microbes, and humans that has resulted. I learned a lot of historical facts that Mr. Mann spices up with stories that give you a real feel for the boomtowns that sprang up around silver mines and rubber plantations in South America, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. So why did I give it only one star??!! Well, I'll tell you. First the good: this is a wide-sweeping review of what Mr. Mann calls the homogenocene - the result of Colombus discovering America and the worldwide mixing of plants, animals, microbes, and humans that has resulted. I learned a lot of historical facts that Mr. Mann spices up with stories that give you a real feel for the boomtowns that sprang up around silver mines and rubber plantations in South America, trading villages in the Philippines, etc. etc., clear around the globe. For example, I never realized what a big event it was when East truly met West in the Philippines - when Spanish sailers met Chinese traders. A whole range of middlemen was cut out, and global trade began to flourish. Mr. Mann does an acceptable job keeping the book balanced. Despite his near-constant snuffling about environmental destruction, he at least recognizes how the homogenocene has lifted millions of people from abject poverty and starvation. And it turns out that anti-global trade rioters race to the barricades, oh, three centuries or so late. I'm afraid fellow-rioters like the king of Spain were staunchly against free trade long, long ago. After all, every ounce of silver that went to China was one less ounce the king could use in his European wars. Turns out its damn hard to control a silver mine on another continent. And it turns out that China has been a source of cheap labor for centuries. Traders were transporting clothing and porcelain across two oceans and the Isthmus in the age of sail and MAKING PROFITS??!! See how late the anti-free trade protestors are? So here's why I gave the book only 1 star. Mr. Mann's strength is also his weakness: he is a correspondent. He's great at putting together a sweeping view of history that real professionals would never tackle because they know they don't have the expertise. But that's his greatest weakness: UNDERSTANDING the facts he lays before readers sometimes requires expert opinion. No problem for a correspondent. Just call up the best-known expert he can find in the Yellow Pages and viola! an explanation appears. The problem is that what he has is just an expert OPINION. Cause and effect is still being debated centuries later. There are other opinions out there. And some of the opinions he publishes are pure stupidity on the face of them. Try this one: \"the Spanish and Chinese economies were ruined by, um, too much silver.\" See what I mean about stupidity? Probably realizing that publishing that opinion could get him laughed at, he tries to explain that since the Spanish king didn't index his tax rates, he was driven to bankruptcy by inflation. Well that would be the proper conclusion if one believes in the divine right of kings and their humanist successors, the all-powerful State. The idea that the Spanish king wasted a lot of silver in riotous living and interminable wars couldn't be the reason. No, governments the world over are marked by thrift and prudence in financial matters. It's always someone else's fault when they go broke. Uh huh. So let's get a real explanation of what happened. The king claimed (for reasons that Mr. Mann does not explain) a large chunk of the silver coming out of South America. He was now extremely wealthy - IN SILVER. The problem was that Europe was still only able to produce so many goods and services. Once that load of silver got dropped on the European economy, the result was as predictable as the rising of the sun: the value of silver fell. Or, as Mr. Mann puts it, inflation occurred. Suddenly all the king's silver couldn't buy as many armies and palaces as it could before. He failed to adjust his standard of living downward, and suffered the natural consequences: bankruptcy. Something similar happened in China. So that's why I gave the book only 1 star. On at least this one point Mr. Mann's chosen experts were foolish to the point of imbecility. That and the fact that the book might just be a tax write-off vehicle so that Mr. Mann can deduct his travel expenses. He apparently travelled the globe to \"experience\" the places he wrote about first hand. In only a couple of instances did it seem to add any value to the book. But it's a great idea and more of us should use that method to finance our travels. So read the book. Expand your knowledge of history and how the discovery of the New World forever changed the Old. Listen respectfully to the conclusions but be prepared to challenge them. ...more<---C>Charles C. Mann</---C>", "Title": "1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created"},
