{"Comments": "I've read two Shreve novels now and I think what I've learned from her is this: Before agreeing to marry a man, one should ask him if he's actually deeply in love with someone else. If he's honest he may reveal that he's just marrying you because he thinks it'll never work out with another woman. As Shreve illustrates so well in her novels, it sucks to find out ten or twenty years into a marriage that you were actually the runner-up. I'm pretty tired of books about domestic funk. Why do I keep r I've read two Shreve novels now and I think what I've learned from her is this: Before agreeing to marry a man, one should ask him if he's actually deeply in love with someone else. If he's honest he may reveal that he's just marrying you because he thinks it'll never work out with another woman. As Shreve illustrates so well in her novels, it sucks to find out ten or twenty years into a marriage that you were actually the runner-up. I'm pretty tired of books about domestic funk. Why do I keep reading them? Do I think I'm going to find one that isn't brimming with middle class malaise? (I think I stole the phrase \"middle class malaise\" from the NYT review of A Wedding .) Still,<---M> I'm not gonna lie</---M>, I liked this book. I'll probably read another just like it next week. It's like I think if I read enough books about unhappy marriages I'll be able to prevent myself from entering one. ...more I feel I was let down, in the end, when I found out the last details of some dead high school all-star shortstop who died twenty-seven years ago. But, I don\u2019t feel I was let down by this book, which was entertaining and held my attention. In the end, I was surprised by parts of some of the outcomes which were not as happy or as Christian as they could have been portrayed. At times, I was bothered by the baseball parts which felt as though my mother was describing the terminology. \u201cHole between s I feel I was let down, in the end, when I found out the last details of some dead high school all-star shortstop who died twenty-seven years ago. But, I don\u2019t feel I was let down by this book, which was entertaining and held my attention. In the end, I was surprised by parts of some of the outcomes which were not as happy or as Christian as they could have been portrayed. At times, I was bothered by the baseball parts which felt as though my mother was describing the terminology.<---F> \u201cHole between second and third</---F>.\u201d And, at one point the main character, Harrison, claimed the dead kid would have become the greatest shortstop to ever play Major League Baseball (that made me laugh). During the Novel, characters do some of the writing and those parts don\u2019t do much for me. I did like the story within, written during the events by a schoolteacher, but I didn\u2019t care that much about how that story related to the rest of the book (I guess I might be missing something). The extra story did mean there were a lot of characters to keep track of. A Wedding In December may not be all that memorable compared to most weddings I have been to, but I wanted to know what was going to happen next all the way through. And that means quite a bit, especially when the story included a few (possibly unfair) stereotypes - a gay piano player who won't play wiffle ball for fear of hurting his fingers. ...more This novel brings seven former schoolmates together after more than 20 years to attend a wedding at an inn in the Berkshire Mountains. The tight bond held by this group of friends was shattered years earlier when one of their own died unexpectedly. The blossoming relationships and potential of each of these central characters jackknifed with the death of this friend, and the wedding reunion gives the characters an opportunity to seek out a resolution for the paths they did not follow. This is the This novel brings seven former schoolmates together after more than 20 years to attend a wedding at an inn in the Berkshire Mountains. The tight bond held by this group of friends was shattered years earlier when one of their own died unexpectedly. The blossoming relationships and potential of each of these central characters jackknifed with the death of this friend, and the wedding reunion gives the characters an opportunity to seek out a resolution for the paths they did not follow. This is the second book I have read recently in which the others who have read it with me have been dissatisfied. This book was chosen as our December read for my book club. Many, if not all, of the other book club members were turned off by the unhappy marriages and questionable moral behavior that plays out in the novel. (But, then again, this is a church book club!) I, however, was struck by this book. While I did not completely understand the motivation of the characters, I was moved by their strong inner turmoil and their struggles to overcome weakness and temptation. Despite the setting (which is very appealing to the imagination), the book, like the other <---A>Anita Shreve</---A> novels I have read (The Pilot's Wife and The Weight of Water), is shrouded in sadness and regret. The characters are consumed with unhappiness and a feeling of general unease. A member of my book club shared that she felt the characters in this novel were underdeveloped. I believe Anita Shreve intentionally writes her characters to be vague. Like real people, they are complicated and troubled. The reader must infer understanding of the characters through their obscure thoughts and behavior. The most interesting part of this novel for me was the story within a story. In the book, the character Agnes, a lonely classmate pining for a former teacher, is writing an historical fiction short story about the Halifax disaster. The explosion that occurred in the city of Halifax in Novia Scotia during the winter of 1917 parallels the tragedy of 9/11 in this book- the characters in the novel are reuniting merely two months after 9/11. The story of Innes and Hazel (as written by Agnes in the novel) is told during and after the Halifax disaster and their relationship mirrors the others in the novel in it's tempting impossibility set against a recent tragedy. Prior to reading this novel, I had never heard of the Halifax explosion and I was saddened to learn of the deaths and injuries that occurred during that significant historical event. This book is not a good one to pick up if you are looking for a lighthearted read. While the novel is easy to follow and won't take long to finish, a melancholy feeling permeates every word and may linger for awhile after you put the book down. ...more Well I bought this thinking it would be my tie-breaker for Anita Shreve. I've read two book by her that I enjoyed and two that I flat out hated. I won't be reading Anita Shreve anymore. After the first 100 pages or so, I started just skimming the 'story-within-a-story' parts of the book. For me, this made it much, much better. I didn't really get the point of including this story. The other thing that I hated was the whole, overall message. She should have included one couple who was at least sem Well I bought this thinking it would be my tie-breaker for Anita Shreve. I've read two book by her that I enjoyed and two that I flat out hated. I won't be reading Anita Shreve anymore. After the first 100 pages or so, I started just skimming the 'story-within-a-story' parts of the book. For me, this made it much, much better. I didn't really get the point of including this story. The other thing that I hated was the whole, overall message. She should have included one couple who was at least semi-happy who hadn't gotten where they are through infidelity. I hated how the idea of infidelity was approached with the idea that if you are happier in your affair than your marriage then it's ok. As long as you're 'in love'. Puh-lease. I'm over this book. Yuck. ...more The basic message of this book is that adultery can be justified, which I firmly disagree. At first I thought this book was ok - it has an interesting plot concept: reunion of a group of friends from high school after 27 years. It also had a story within a story (which the transitions were confusing, but I started looking forward to reading more of the second story) and was an easy read. But by the end (and time I realized the main message), I was disappointed that I wasted my time. Oh my god, this book was boring and pretentious, for at least the fifty or so pages that I got through, and I almost never put down a book in the middle. I think I've somehow managed to read almost every book by Anita Shreve and I've only liked about half of them, so I believe I give up now. As with all of her books, the storyline has promise, but falls short (for many reasons). I am not a fan of her abrupt/erratic writing style (she seems to jump from topic to topic with her characters). With this book, I didn't like how she had so many characters that seemed under-developed. The book is about seven former classmates, but there are a few that just seem to be thrown into the storyline. The best part of the book was the mini Halifax story within the story. This book started out with so much possibility. A group of old high school friends gathering for a wedding between two of the friends who had found each other again. It was very interesting to see where each of their lives had taken them. It was interesting to learn of their relationships in high school. There was even a wonderful second story taking place because one of the characters was writing a novel and it was being revealed as she wrote it. However, the book ended UGLY. It revealed some This book started out with so much possibility. A group of old high school friends gathering for a wedding between two of the friends who had found each other again. It was very interesting to see where each of their lives had taken them. It was interesting to learn of their relationships in high school. There was even a wonderful second story taking place because one of the characters was writing a novel and it was being revealed as she wrote it. However, the book ended UGLY. It revealed some really terrible things about most of the people. That in itself would have been okay, but nothing was resolved or no great break throughs were made. In fact several more mistakes were made by the characters that seemed to have no meaning or merit. Both the real book, and the novel being written just stopped. There was no ending to either. The stories just stopped in really bad situations. Worse yet, I didn't want to know what happen to the characters. I didn't want to know them. I was not endeared to them. ...more This is possibly one of my least favourite of the Anita Shreve novels I have read (there are about 3 I haven't read yet - 1 TBR) I didn't find there was the depth that exists in some of her earlier work, like Fortune's Rocks, or The Weight of Water. The actual story of The wedding - is pretty bland, predictable , and not very compelling, although Anita Shreve's writing is always hugely readable. However within the novel, there is a story within a story, which irritaed me at first but then hooked This is possibly one of my least favourite of the Anita Shreve novels I have read (there are about 3 I haven't read yet - 1 TBR) I didn't find there was the depth that exists in some of her earlier work, like Fortune's Rocks, or The Weight of Water. The actual story of The wedding - is pretty bland, predictable , and not very compelling, although Anita Shreve's writing is always hugely readable. However within the novel, there is a story within a story, which irritaed me at first but then hooked me in a way the main narrative didn't. One of the characters Agnes is writing the story of a terrible disater that took place in Halifax (Canada) during the first world war - and it is this story that is the more compelling of the two. The relationships explored in A wedding in December are done well, and certainly there is a definite feeling of sadness that pervades the whole story - a sadness which seems in keeping with how some of the characters begin to look at their lives, their past and their future. I do generally like Anita Shreve's books, but this was a little disappointing. ...more So, I began this book in May just before I went to grad school and was actually intrigued by the plot synopsis. I found the first few pages dry, but I knew better than to give up on a book before the quarter marker. When I picked it up again this month, I re-read the few pages I had already read and continued for another 20 or so more, but I just couldn't get hooked into it anymore. I thought the narrative was needing spice in numerous areas and even the foundation of the plot began to seem unap So, I began this book in May just before I went to grad school and was actually intrigued by the plot synopsis. I found the first few pages dry, but I knew better than to give up on a book before the quarter marker. When I picked it up again this month, I re-read the few pages I had already read and continued for another 20 or so more, but I just couldn't get hooked into it anymore. I thought the narrative was needing spice in numerous areas and even the foundation of the plot began to seem unappealing to me. I can't say that my worldview has changed over six months, but the idea of people leaving their spouses for the \"real\" loves of their lives just couldn't settle in my tummy. While romantic, in theory, the potentially catastrophic repercussions for all involved are just not my thing. I'll give LIGHT ON SNOW a try in the near future. I've heard such great things about Shreve that I'd hate to give up after just one try. ...more I was annoyed with this book practically from the first few pages. I could not relate to any of the characters for whatever reason. Maybe it was the repetition behind each character\u2019s selfish thought process which made the reasoning for their actions seem overdone and invalid. There were some promising moments, but overall I was disappointed. For example, what was the deal with nearly every character being an adulterer? I look forward to reading the author\u2019s more highly recommended works and hop I was annoyed with this book practically from the first few pages. I could not relate to any of the characters for whatever reason. Maybe it was the repetition behind each character\u2019s selfish thought process which made the reasoning for their actions seem overdone and invalid. There were some promising moments, but overall I was disappointed. For example, what was the deal with nearly every character being an adulterer? I look forward to reading the author\u2019s more highly recommended works and hope for something better next time. It\u2019s pretty lame that the big secret to the entire mystery of the story lies behind this alcoholic teenager who died because he soiled himself and drowned cleaning himself off in the ocean. Very lame. I would not recommend this book. ...more Obviously, I went through an Anita Shreve phase. This was one of those books that was hard to get into and hard to finish. I actually quit reading it for a while, read a few other books, and came back to it when I had nothing else to read. I guess it was just boring...nothing really happens to any of the characters, they rarely leave the house where the wedding is taking place, and most of the book is spent reminiscing uninteresting memories from the characters' high school/college days. Skip th Obviously, I went through an Anita Shreve phase. This was one of those books that was hard to get into and hard to finish. I actually quit reading it for a while, read a few other books, and came back to it when I had nothing else to read. I guess it was just boring...nothing really happens to any of the characters, they rarely leave the house where the wedding is taking place, and most of the book is spent reminiscing uninteresting memories from the characters' high school/college days. Skip this one. ...more This was my first Anita Shreve book. It was enjoyable, but disappointed where it ended. It was almost as if there was to be a continuation. The one female character who was having an affair with an old teacher, her story seemed abruptly cut off. Why was she having trouble w/ her vision? I almost feel I need to read this again in case I missed something the first time around. I never felt there was enough back ground to each character. This wasn\u2019t bad. It is a story of a small reunion of highschool friends. One of the girls, Bridget and one of the guys, Bill are getting married at the Inn owned by one of their friends. This is definitely similar to \u201cThe Big Chill\u201d. I liked that about it. The Inn is in the Berkshires. There are, of course, demons that are hidden in the back of each of the friends mind. Specifically, the death of their friend, Stephen who drowned in the ocean when they were seniors. The truth comes out in the st This wasn\u2019t bad. It is a story of a small reunion of highschool friends. One of the girls, Bridget and one of the guys, Bill are getting married at the Inn owned by one of their friends. This is definitely similar to \u201cThe Big Chill\u201d. I liked that about it. The Inn is in the Berkshires. There are, of course, demons that are hidden in the back of each of the friends mind. Specifically, the death of their friend, Stephen who drowned in the ocean when they were seniors. The truth comes out in the story. Stephen was an alcoholic already and had soiled himself at the party thrown the night of his death. He went to wash himself in the ocean and fell in and drowned. Harrison, his roommate, always felt responsible. Especially since he was in love with Nora, Stephen\u2019s girlfriend. Stephen caught them kissing the night he died. Agnes, another friend, has a secret as well. She teaches at the school they graduated from and has been having an affair with one of their teachers for years. He is married. She is also writing a book about the Halifax explosion. That story is woven into this one. The book could have done without this, although it was interesting. I never heard about the Halifax explosion but it was mentioned in \u201cUntil I Find You\u201d. And finally, Bridget has breast cancer. Her and Bill, highschool sweethearts, reunited at their highschool reunion. He left his wife and daughter to marry her. I liked this better reading it the second time. ...more \u00c9 um livro lento, com pouca ac\u00e7\u00e3o. A autora \u00e9 sempre uma mestra nas descri\u00e7\u00f5es das rela\u00e7\u00f5es humanas, e n\u00e3o estava a dormir quando escreveu este \"Casamento em Dezembro\". Eu quase adormeci ao longo das p\u00e1ginas, porque me pareceu demasiado nost\u00e1lgico, pensei que n\u00e3o fosse a lugar algum. E ent\u00e3o, de repente, conforme me estendia \u00e0 beira da piscina num festival de ver\u00e3o com ele aberto, aconteceu: a revela\u00e7\u00e3o, o inesperado, a qualidade ineg\u00e1vel da autora. E n\u00e3o vou revelar o que sucede que me fez chor \u00c9 um livro lento, com pouca ac\u00e7\u00e3o. A autora \u00e9 sempre uma mestra nas descri\u00e7\u00f5es das rela\u00e7\u00f5es humanas, e n\u00e3o estava a dormir quando escreveu este \"Casamento em Dezembro\". Eu quase adormeci ao longo das p\u00e1ginas, porque me pareceu demasiado nost\u00e1lgico, pensei que n\u00e3o fosse a lugar algum. E ent\u00e3o, de repente, conforme me estendia \u00e0 beira da piscina num festival de ver\u00e3o com ele aberto, aconteceu: a revela\u00e7\u00e3o, o inesperado, a qualidade ineg\u00e1vel da autora. E n\u00e3o vou revelar o que sucede que me fez chorar \u00e0 frente dos meus amigos, numa situa\u00e7\u00e3o jamais esperada. Foi a escritora a falar da vida, da ilus\u00e3o de que o passado est\u00e1 enterrado e que tudo est\u00e1 bem ou vai, simplesmente, acabar bem. \u00c9 por isso que a adoro e que amei o livro. ___________ It's a slow book, with little action. Shreve is always a master when it comes to describe human relationships, and she wasn't asleep when she wrote this 'A wedding in December'. I almost slept through the book pages, because it seemed so nostalgic that I thought it wouldn't go anywhere. And then, suddenly, as I layed by the pool in a summer festival with it, it hit me: the revelation, the unexpected, the undeniable quality of the author. And I won't reveal what happens that made me cry in front of all my friends, in the most unexpected situation. It was Shreve speaking to me about life, about the ilusion that the past is buried and everything is fine or will simply end up right. That's why I love her and I loved the book. ...more One of my favorite movies is The Big Chill about a group of friends who get together for the funeral of one of the group. <+++>A Wedding in December</+++> has all of the same ingredients needed for a weekend reunion of friends from their youth; plenty of drama, secrets revealed, handsome, champion baseball players, beach scenes, memories of favorite teachers and of course romance. Having read way too many mystery novels recently, it was nice to read a story about people, their friendships, their flaws and One of my favorite movies is The Big Chill about a group of friends who get together for the funeral of one of the group. <+++>A Wedding in December</+++> has all of the same ingredients needed for a weekend reunion of friends from their youth; plenty of drama, secrets revealed, handsome, champion baseball players, beach scenes, memories of favorite teachers and of course romance. Having read way too many mystery novels recently, it was nice to read a story about people, their friendships, their flaws and their aspirations. This is what Anita Shreve excels at, the drama of interpersonal relationships. Now I hope she does a movie script for The Wedding in December. ...more I didn't like Pilot's Wife, by Anita Shreve. So I've not really sought out her others. But, when you are on the road travelling and you need a new book because you've exhausted the three you brought with you, you'll pretty much take anything that isn't utter crap. Boy, was I suprised. It was AWESOME! One of the best books I have read in a really really long time. I savored every word. I loved every word. Enjoy! I did not really care about the characters. It was a straight character study about people who really bored me to death. We compared it to the big chill (that was more entertaining) The book ends kind of like it started it just was and it was nothing I wanted to read. I've read quite a few of Shreve's books & they're a guilty pleasure - she's not the greatest writer in the world, but she tells an interesting story, usually with some historical background, & they're often a quick read. I liked this one less than some of her others, but give it four stars on the strength of the story-within-story - a technique that I always LOVE! The main story is about a group of old high school friends who reunite over 20 years later, for the wedding of the separated- I've read quite a few of Shreve's books & they're a guilty pleasure - she's not the greatest writer in the world, but she tells an interesting story, usually with some historical background, & they're often a quick read. I liked this one less than some of her others, but give it four stars on the strength of the story-within-story - a technique that I always LOVE! The main story is about a group of old high school friends who reunite over 20 years later, for the wedding of the separated-but-now-reunited sweethearts. There's a quasi-mystery about the death of one of their group, which is probably the most interesting part of the modern-day story. Other than that I didn't much care for, or about, any of the modern-day characters. The story-within-story is about the explosion of the munitions ship Mont Blanc in Halifax, Nova Scotia in 1917, & how it affected a young doctor & the family he'd been staying with. I didn't realize this had actually happened, so on finding the story so interesting I looked up more details. The explosion was the largest human-created explosion that had ever taken place in the world, & held that record until the first nuclear bomb test explosions in 1945. Everything within a mile of the Halifax blast site was obliterated. 325 acres of the town were destroyed. The explosion took place in a harbor & caused a tsunami that resulted in additional deaths besides those caused directly by the blast. Some victims were carried miles from where they'd been at the time. Many people had gone to the windows to look at the ship on fire in the harbor, & there were a huge amount of injuries as a result of people being hit, often in the eyes, by flying glass. 2,000 people were killed. Shreve ties the historical Halifax story to the \"modern-day\" story which takes place not long after 9/11/2001, but 9/11 is just background. It might have been more interesting, if harrowing, if Shreve had written parallel stories of people whose lives really were affected by each of these events. Still, it's a good book, well written, & worth spending the time particularly for the Halifax story. ...more Anita Shreve is a great storyteller, especially when her milieu is the past. In this novel, the focus is on a group of middle aged friends who have not seen each other since they were classmates at a boarding school in Maine. There are lots of secrets to share, as well as a wedding to celebrate. One of the former classmates is creating her own fiction, a story within the story, which highlights the Halifax explosion of 1917 a disaster which occurred when two ships in the harbor, laden with warti Anita Shreve is a great storyteller, especially when her milieu is the past. In this novel, the focus is on a group of middle aged friends who have not seen each other since they were classmates at a boarding school in Maine. There are lots of secrets to share, as well as a wedding to celebrate. One of the former classmates is creating her own fiction, a story within the story, which highlights the Halifax explosion of 1917 a disaster which occurred when two ships in the harbor, laden with wartime explosives caught fire. ...more A Wedding in December is a pretty simple book about seven former classmates who reunite for a wedding. Each person has his/her own storyline and there is the group storyline of the wedding/reunion. My takeaway is confirmation that we are a composite of the choices we make and the chances we take throughout our lives. One slight deviation from our decisions and our lives could be very different. I really enjoyed this novel. The notion of reunions is always scary and the relationships rediscovered didn't disappoint. The subplot novel, written by Agnes was also interesting and parallels the main plot. It is a novel about unfolding relationships. So if you are looking for an action thriller this is not the book for you. \u201dThe things that don\u2019t happen to us that we\u2019ll never know didn\u2019t happen to us. The nonstories.\u201d Anita Shreve , the author of the critically acclaimed novel, A Wedding in December , which garnered a massive buzz from thousands of readers across the globe, some raised one comical eyebrow as if to lay a question not too profound however, dismissively and some went to such great lengths, loathing this novel as if it has never been a work of literature. But guess what, it was included in the selectio \u201dThe things that don\u2019t happen to us that we\u2019ll never know didn\u2019t happen to us. The nonstories.\u201d Anita Shreve , the author of the critically acclaimed novel, A Wedding in December , which garnered a massive buzz from thousands of readers across the globe, some raised one comical eyebrow as if to lay a question not too profound however, dismissively and some went to such great lengths, loathing this novel as if it has never been a work of literature. But guess what, it was included in the selection of Oprah\u2019s Book Club, I think two novels of Anita Shreve were handpicked and were enlisted in the said selection. Damn right. At first I had doubts swirling in my befuddled brain but my curiosity won over my doubtful mind. It\u2019s a heartbreaking story in which I was not prepared for the emotional turmoil it had put me through. I wanted to reach something, anything beyond my grasp. It\u2019s a wonderful story about seven people (Nora, Harrison, Bill, Bridget, Jerry, Rob, & Agnes) who were once friends during their teenage years spent in the Kidd Academy, now twenty-seven years had passed in a purple haze, their lives have been placed in a pedestal which led them to different road paths with different choices, one must have felt like an intruder, an emotional terrorist, the other one a loner, as they stood to each other at arm\u2019s length, eyeing each other up from head to toe with absolute scrutiny however fate had another thing in stored for them which none of them have immediately recovered as the secrets begun to unfold one after the other. The story encompasses of unrequited love, deception, second chances and forgiveness. I liked Harrison\u2019s enormous patience when it comes to love although he was already married to Evelyn, he thought that the love he felt for her was enough but his other half was still longing for something else; perhaps his heart was still waiting for someone he desired long before he knew he was in love. But my heart went out to Bill and Bridget the entire time. \u201cI didn\u2019t have you for so long, and now I might lose you.\u201d \u2013 Bill I was riding in the bus en route to my province when I decided to read a few pages but as I pore over the lines I got engrossed and next thing you know I cannot stop. I cannot put it down. A series of queries has started to pique my interest, I felt the tension welling inside me and for a few maddening seconds I was momentarily nonplussed. Oh, don\u2019t you just hate cliffhangers? The ending was left unresolved which my imagination found it difficult to process. I wanted to say a lot of things, for the mixed emotions inside my chest that wanted to get out but I decided to be adamant about it. For the first time in months I felt shattered, bereft of words. I prided myself with one bottle of San Mig Apple after, relishing the taste that rolls off my tongue while I think of those characters in the book as if they are real. I have an odd feeling about reunions. The feeling of anxiety, the utter anticipation of nonstories nearly kills me like a thousand daggers hightailing me, aiming towards my chest and the cold, clammy skin, the fast beating of my heart as if it would come out inside my pectorals, all of these things will be manifested and consumed in every part and parcel of my being and next thing you know it would be my turn to speak the untold story, unleashing my premeditated thoughts, giving away myself to a couple of strangers whom I called friends before. I don\u2019t want that to happen. I don\u2019t do well with surprises much less show up to this reunion of sorts they orchestrated. I would want to come with a relish if my close friends, really, really close friends will be there but I have lost my contacts of most of them but as what other peeps said there are a thousand ways to reach them, to bring my friends back if this is what I wanted in the first place, otherwise I should be creative. Let me tell you a story about my friends on how we had clung to each other for dear life. People come and go. They get replaced. I have met a bunch of freaks, fought a couple of bitches, and encountered empowered and liberal women in their utmost stylish, good-looking self; that I-don\u2019t-give-a-shit-about-what-you-think-of-me certitude, in my twenty years of existence I have never felt so enthusiastic and a bit proud of myself and I am looking forward to know more of them. I\u2019ve had my fair share of freaks, you know. Well, at first I didn\u2019t have the faintest idea that these people had similar interests with mine nor the fact that we have the same ideas, opinions and X-rated imagination running through our mind like a series of explicit scenes flowing like so much water. We enjoyed each other\u2019s company, sure, even if we differ from each other like how the blazing sun differs from the shaft of moonlight at night, like how the sun never misses the moon but it is just there and you will never be mistaken. A friend is someone whom you could share your deepest, darkest and worst-kept secrets with. A friend is someone whom you could run on to in case everything had gone ballistic and momentarily fucked up you needed a shoulder to cry on, perhaps, just warmth of a living soul is enough. A friend is someone you could call as your confidante, a nonjudgmental freak, a good listener and someone who would give even the worst advices in this monotonous world but, hey, even his or her witty banter might caught you off guard in a second or two and you would end up rolling onto the floor while laughing so hard, and the next minute you\u2019re catching your breath like you have been kicked in the solar plexus or you could have pissed on your pants from laughing maniacally. Having true friends by your side is the best experience one could ever have and having each other is the closest thing that, you and I, will ever have. Xx Now Playing: A Thousand Years by Christina Perri ...more This is my third audio book by Anita Shreve. I cannot finish it. I'm not sure if it's the writing or the monotonous voice of the narrator. I've read some of Shreve's other works and thought them pretty good. This one was extremely hard for me to read. It was just plain boring. A group of old highschool friends are meeting at one of their member's Bed and Breakfast (more like a European resort) for a wedding between two other members of the group. Nora, the owner of the B&B, lost her husband a few years back. He was an acclaimed poet and his death was just fine to Harrison, another member of the group who has carried a torch for I've read some of Shreve's other works and thought them pretty good. This one was extremely hard for me to read. It was just plain boring. A group of old highschool friends are meeting at one of their member's Bed and Breakfast (more like a European resort) for a wedding between two other members of the group. Nora, the owner of the B&B, lost her husband a few years back. He was an acclaimed poet and his death was just fine to Harrison, another member of the group who has carried a torch for Nora his whole life despite having a wife and children at home. He looks forward to this reunion of sorts to reconnect with her. Other members are Bill and Bridget, who are the two getting married. Bill has left his wife for Bridget after falling in love with her again at a class reunion. Bridget, a single parent, has recently been diagnosed with aggressive breast cancer and her uncertain fate is what hurries the nuptials. Jerry, an annoying guy who used to be a good baseball player, has brought his frigid wife and can't help but boast about how wonderful he is. Agnes is now a teacher at the school (who has had an affair with one of THEIR old teachers) and is writing a short story about the Halifax disaster. This mention is important because half of the book is this short story. There is also Rob, a famous pianist who has come out of the closet officially and brought his boyfriend. Finally there is one other member who is actually not there in presence but in memory. Stephen was a good friend to all and terrific baseball player but died in their senior year at the school by drowning. Throughout the story there are three parts that are comprised of Friday, Saturday, and Sunday of this reunion weekend. Intermixed with all of the characters happenings is Agnes' story involving a doctor and his desires during the Halifax disaster. All the characters go through turmoil, indecisiveness, and trouble reconciling their feelings about each other and about Stephen. As far as the characters go in this book, I really couldn't connect with any of them. The only ones I did really like were Rob and his boyfriend. They at least had some class and dignity but the rest acted like they were back at their precious high school. I realize adults can act very juvenile but these people, to me, were pathetic. Life doesn't always go the way you want but that is no reason to be stuck in the past. Move on and enjoy some things. Shreve has a nice writing style although she tends to drill into your head certain details she wants known (like Nora's B&B being fancy and European-like). After a couple mentions I'd like for such details to be left alone as it just gets repetitive. Shreve usually spins a nice story too but in this one she was so focused on getting the character's personalities across, that I think she lost focus of some kind of plot. I also think this book may have been her way of dealing with the events of Sept. 11 2001 as there are numerous references to it and it comes up in the character's discussions quite a bit as well. There is nothing wrong with this, but it only develops characters once again instead of plot. I think out of the book, the best part of it was the short story. While this also started out slow and boring, it at least was interesting by the end of the book and showed more plot and likeable characters than the actual book. Not a great book to be sure. Great fans of Shreve may like it but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone else. It may be a good character study, but not a good story. A Wedding in December Copyright 2005 325 pages Review by M. Reynard 2010 ...more I think I picked the wrong Anita Shreve novel as my introduction to this often-acclaimed author. A Wedding in December is a reunion story, think \"The Big Chill\" set in a country inn 27 years after a high school graduation. Its ensemble format consists of multiple story lines, unresolved grudges, marital infidelities, yuppie angst and even an \u201coff camera\u201d dead guy. (Oh, and also a novel within a novel, sigh.) Agonizingly slow, with lots of conversations on paths to nowhere, I found myself mentall I think I picked the wrong Anita Shreve novel as my introduction to this often-acclaimed author. A Wedding in December is a reunion story, think \"The Big Chill\" set in a country inn 27 years after a high school graduation. Its ensemble format consists of multiple story lines, unresolved grudges, marital infidelities, yuppie angst and even an \u201coff camera\u201d dead guy. (Oh, and also a novel within a novel, sigh.) Agonizingly slow, with lots of conversations on paths to nowhere, I found myself mentally screaming at the characters to move the story forward. And, small thing, but there are at least a half dozen uses of the word \u201cfinger\u201d as a verb. ...more It's amazing to contemplate how little actually happens in Shreve's A Wedding in December , yet, at the same time, that which does is so very monumental \u2013 changing nothing but impacting everything, though there is a sense that readers just get to experience a moment of what has been building for decades and will continue to build for years. Perhaps this is because of the issue of time and how the author approaches it. Three days \u2013 no, actually, it's more like two days and the fleeting morning of It's amazing to contemplate how little actually happens in Shreve's A Wedding in December , yet, at the same time, that which does is so very monumental \u2013 changing nothing but impacting everything, though there is a sense that readers just get to experience a moment of what has been building for decades and will continue to build for years. Perhaps this is because of the issue of time and how the author approaches it. Three days \u2013 no, actually, it's more like two days and the fleeting morning of a third \u2013 pass the characters by in this novel, but through recollections and shared conversations, readers come to feel as if they have known these people, these former friends now reunited at an inn for a wedding, for forever \u2013 the turbulent dramas of their lives \u2013 infidelity, loneliness, cancer, an unhappy marriage, impending blindness, a life unfulfilled \u2013 more guests than the individuals who own the tragedies. Plus, woven into the folds of the book is a story within a story \u2013 one of the former friends supplementing her own unhappiness with the decisions of another. The result is a delicious, intense character study which allows readers to feel as though they have been a part of this group since high school \u2013 their recent introduction to the various players reminiscent of the gap in time which separated the friends, sometimes rivals, but always connected individuals between their high school graduation and the wedding which reunited them all. A Wedding in December isn't perfect. There were a couple of continuance issues \u2013 for example, while one character noted another's French twist, another referred to the hairstyle as a bun, and parts of the narrative were missing \u2013 opinions, insights, secrets left unshared by players whom the author did not give a voice. Yet, these faults will fade in the mind of readers, blending into the background as, years after first finishing the novel, they will remember its rich insight into the human mind and heart rather than a bumbled description or a curiosity as to what Jerry, or Bill, or Rob, or Nora might have been thinking. However, the ending \u2013 in its beauty and its maddening abruptness \u2013 will be recalled as well, for Shreve's leaves off her book with an unanswered question; will he, or won't he? As a writer, I relish in the ambiguity, savoring its potential for what's to come after the last page is turned, but, as a reader, I loath the unknown \u2013 needing, wanting closure but also knowing that such a gift will never be given to me, my opportunity to be a voyeur into these characters' lives now snatched away. Nevertheless... or perhaps because of its ending, A Wedding in December is a work that will not only make you feel but also think, a study of life perpetually in the gray. It is also a joy to read. ...more Esta \u00e9 a hist\u00f3ria de 7 colegas de escola que ao fim de 27 anos se encontram na estalagem de Nora em Massachusetts, reunem-se l\u00e1 para o casamento de Bill e Bridget. Bridget que tem um cancro da mama a que o mais prov\u00e1vel \u00e9 n\u00e3o sobreviver. E Bill que deixou a mulher e a filha para ficar com Bridget. Durante o casamento s\u00e3o revelados segredos que afetam todos os presentes: Agnes que anda com um homem casado que foi professor deles no liceu, Nora que conta a Harrison que o seu marido, Carl, a tra\u00eda, Esta \u00e9 a hist\u00f3ria de 7 colegas de escola que ao fim de 27 anos se encontram na estalagem de Nora em Massachusetts, reunem-se l\u00e1 para o casamento de Bill e Bridget. Bridget que tem um cancro da mama a que o mais prov\u00e1vel \u00e9 n\u00e3o sobreviver. E Bill que deixou a mulher e a filha para ficar com Bridget. Durante o casamento s\u00e3o revelados segredos que afetam todos os presentes: Agnes que anda com um homem casado que foi professor deles no liceu, Nora que conta a Harrison que o seu marido, Carl, a tra\u00eda, Harrison que confessa a Nora que sempre foi apaixonado por ela, Bill confessa a Bridget que tem um pavor inacredit\u00e1vel que ela morra. Enfim, todos os segredos s\u00e3o revelados nestes 3 dias que os ex-colegas passam juntos. O que dizer sobre este livro? Gostei ! Como este ano terminei uma fase da minha vida em que conheci muitas pessoas, entre elas as minhas melhores amigas, este livro fez-me acreditar que s\u00f3 perdemos o contacto com as pessoas que gostamos e com quem convivermos se quisermos, pois o reencontro \u00e9 sempre poss\u00edvel. Gostei da forma como a autora preservou as mem\u00f3rias e o amor de Harrison durante 27 anos, e como proporciounou a Nora uma vida melhor depois de o seu marido ter falecido. Gostei do facto de Agnes estar a escrever uma hist\u00f3ria que achava ser fic\u00e7\u00e3o e, no entanto, era a hist\u00f3ria de Nora e Harrison. Apaixonei-me pelo amor de Bill por Bridget que mesmo sabendo que ela poderia morrer brevemente quis casar com ela para sagrar o seu amor... Fiquei intrigada acerca da raz\u00e3o de Julie, esposa de Jerry, lhe ter chamado hip\u00f3crita \u00e0 mesa de jantar; este acontecimento n\u00e3o foi explicado e eu gostaria que tivesse sido mais desenvolvido, \u00e9 o \u00fanico ponto negativo que aponto a este livro. Quanto ao final gosto de acreditar que Harrison ficou l\u00e1 com Nora e que ia visitar os filhos pontualmente ao Canad\u00e1, mas que n\u00e3o desistia do amor que tinha por Nora desde os tempos do liceu. Aconselho a leitura, sem reservas algumas! E, desde j\u00e1, obrigado \u00e0 minha irm\u00e3 por me ter emprestado este maravilhoso livro. http://oprazerdaleitura94.blogspot.pt... ...more I just proved that my reading taste has changed for the better. Many years ago I tried to read an Anita Shreve novel and couldn't finish it. Even though it's been so long ago that I don't remember which book it was, I do recall thinking it was awful because nothing happened. The protagonist just thought and thought and thought, and I was totally bored with her thoughts. Other bloggers whose opinions I trust have been posting good reviews of Shreve lately though, and I decided I should try her ag I just proved that my reading taste has changed for the better. Many years ago I tried to read an Anita Shreve novel and couldn't finish it. Even though it's been so long ago that I don't remember which book it was, I do recall thinking it was awful because nothing happened. The protagonist just thought and thought and thought, and I was totally bored with her thoughts. Other bloggers whose opinions I trust have been posting good reviews of Shreve lately though, and I decided I should try her again. I must be missing something. Sure enough, I was missing something. Now that I'm more mature (read old), I'm more patient with character development and books like A Wedding in December where nearly all the action takes place in people's memories of the past. Several people are reunited after 27 years for the wedding of two friends. They had all been classmates at a private prep school and one of the group of friends had died not long before graduation. He was sort of the catalyst around which all the others had melded into a solid group and without him, they all went their separate ways after graduation. There is a mystery about the boy's death that haunts them all and it creates an underlying tension throughout the wedding celebration. The bride, it turns out, has cancer which appears to be terminal. She is marrying the man she had loved in school. He had broken up with her then and they had both married someone else. Now they are together again and want to celebrate that fact with their friends from long ago. One of the friends is writing a novel based on a real tragedy that happened in Halifax, Nova Scotia during World War I. Since I had known about this event from a vacation there, this was an interesting side story for me. She, it turns out, also has something she has been hiding, but is bursting to disclose. This book was published in 2005 but it is a timeless story of love, loss, guilt, and people's expectations of their friends. In short, I have become an Anita Shreve fan. I did enjoy her writing, the plotlines, and her characters. I recommend her for others who may not have realized she had something to tell them before. ...more From November 2005 School Library Journal: A Wedding in December carries many of Shreve\u2019s hallmarks: simple and elegant prose; characters who are entirely convincing in their portrayals of human fallibility; and a plot buildup with a twist toward the end that packs a wallop. Set in New England several months after the September 11 attacks, this is the story of seven former classmates who have not seen each other in twenty-seven years, but who have come together for a wedding. Bill and Bridget, who From November 2005 School Library Journal: A Wedding in December carries many of Shreve\u2019s hallmarks: simple and elegant prose; characters who are entirely convincing in their portrayals of human fallibility; and a plot buildup with a twist toward the end that packs a wallop. Set in New England several months after the September 11 attacks, this is the story of seven former classmates who have not seen each other in twenty-seven years, but who have come together for a wedding. Bill and Bridget, who dated during high school and then went their separate ways, have reunited and are getting married in the face of Bridget\u2019s advanced breast cancer. Nora, who owns the inn where the wedding will be held, is trying to rebuild her life after the death of her husband. Harrison believes himself to be content with the life he has made in Toronto with his wife and two sons\u2026 until he sees Nora again. Agnes, Nora\u2019s old roommate, has a secret she is desperate to share with the others. Jerry gives every appearance of outward success, but is helpless to prevent the fa\u00e7ade from crumbling over the weekend. And over all of them hangs the specter of Stephen, Harrison\u2019s old roommate whose charismatic life and tragic death they all allude to but seem unable to address head-on. Paralleling the story of these friends, Agnes is writing a novel about the Halifax explosion of 1917, a little-known disaster that resulted in the deaths of almost 2000 citizens of the Nova Scotia community when two ships collided in the harbor. This story-within-a-story not only provides an eye-opening account of a piece of World War I history, but allows Agnes to address some of her own issues through her characters. Shreve\u2019s novels are consistently understated and graceful explorations of the choices we make in our day to day interactions with each other and the consequences of those choices. A Wedding in December is an excellent piece of American literature to add to any high school library. ...more<---C>Anita Shreve</---C>", "Title": "A Wedding in December"},
