{"Comments": "Do you guys know that feeling when you just have finished an astonishingly excellent book? You feel full of life and understanding. It's why as readers we come back and back again and hope this will be the book that gives us that exhilaration. I guess it's akin to a literary high. This book did that for me and more. It deserves more than the five star rating. Let's see if I'll be able to give a concise review without confusing people. This story is loosely based on an obscure Grimm fairy tale ( Do you guys know that feeling when you just have finished an astonishingly excellent book? You feel full of life and understanding. It's why as readers we come back and back again and hope this will be the book that gives us that exhilaration. I guess it's akin to a literary high. This book did that for me and more. It deserves more than the five star rating. Let's see if I'll be able to give a concise review without confusing people. This story is loosely based on an obscure Grimm fairy tale (Hale mentions which one it is at the end of the book). The premise is that Lady Saren will be locked up in a tower for seven years because she will not marry Lord Khashar. Lady Saren takes <---C>Dashti</---C> who oddly doesn't mind this arrangement. She comes from a harsh background and the guarantee of having food for seven straight years while serving someone of royal blood? It seems like the gods have smiled upon her. Things start to look not so rosy anymore though, and Dashti and Lady Saren will be caught in a web of lies that will lead to an adventure neither of them could have seen coming. The strongest point of the book for me was the character of Dashti. She is resilient, funny, caring, and loyal to a fault. The refreshing aspect about her is that she is definitely not your typical flawlessly pretty character. It's her spirit that brings forth her beauty, and that may sound cheesy but it's true. Like any other character she has her shortfalls, but comes to realize how stunted her view of things was. The author does an excellent job of weaving in the Mongolian setting and customs so the reader feels as if this is a real place. Since this is written in journal form we really get the mood Dashti's in and the progression of her and Saren's growth. Throughout we see some illustrations that aid in the storytelling. I imagine this would be a great story to read out loud. I LOVED Khan Tegus, and that's all I have to say about him because anything else I would say wouldn't even come close to describing his wonderfulness. <---A>Shannon Hale</---A> has permanently become one of my favorite authors, she was already but now she is cemented,<---M> written in black sharpie</---M>, engraved permanent . Hale is more than an author, she is a bona fide storyteller. I will have to retire from this review before I totally botch it up, but I want to conclude that the characters are lovely, the story enchanting, and displays the power of the written word. ...<---F>more So, so, so good</---F>. As I got towards the end I was planning on giving it 4 stars, but then at the very end it surprised me and it was like the book was about something completely other than what I'd been thinking it was about the whole time. It surprised me, and I love well-executed surprises. Thus 5 stars. Not that there was a surprise ending (I don't like those), just that there was a reframing that totally delighted me. I'll say more about it down below if you want, but I'll put them beneath spo So, so, so good. As I got towards the end I was planning on giving it 4 stars, but then at the very end it surprised me and it was like the book was about something completely other than what I'd been thinking it was about the whole time. It surprised me, and I love well-executed surprises. Thus 5 stars. Not that there was a surprise ending (I don't like those), just that there was a reframing that totally delighted me. I'll say more about it down below if you want, but I'll put them beneath spoiler alerts to come later. Anyways. This is a retelling of a Grimm fairly tale. If you've read any of the original Grimm stories, you know they're fairly brutish and cold. Here, the author-- she doesn't reinvent the archetype, she stays very true to the genre, but she reshapes it and totally give it wings. Can I say \"breathes new life into it\" without sounding totally cheesy? Because that's pretty much what's happening here. For me she made the Grimm style of fairy tale wondrous and fun again, like they must have been when people first started hearing them, hundreds of years before Disney came along and ruined fairy tales for everyone, forever. I was worried, on the first page, that this book would suffer from the nondescript/slightly awkward \"person from foreign land\" voice that afflicts a lot of books in this genre, but that was totally not the case. By about page 5 I was totally on board with no worries or qualms. I don't know what else to say about it, except that I flew through it, and was totally stealing every moment I could to find out what happens next. possible spoilers below seriously OK! It's not just about what happens when you get locked in a tower for 7 years, and what happens after, and the relationship between the servant and the maid. It's about books! And writing! And the power of writing! And even though it ends with a wedding to a prince/khan or whatever, which is so not my scene, it was all enchanting and amazing. ...more Hale has proved herself adept at finding obscure fairy tales and reworking them in mouth-watering new ways. Her latest offering is based on the little-known \"Maid Maleen\" by the Brothers Grimm. A lady and her loyal maid are locked in a tower for seven years as punishment for the lady's refusal to marry the man her father wants her to. The story details their imprisonment in the tower and the adventure that follows. Hale's version is told in diary format from the point of view of the maid--Dashti Hale has proved herself adept at finding obscure fairy tales and reworking them in mouth-watering new ways. Her latest offering is based on the little-known \"Maid Maleen\" by the Brothers Grimm. A lady and her loyal maid are locked in a tower for seven years as punishment for the lady's refusal to marry the man her father wants her to. The story details their imprisonment in the tower and the adventure that follows. Hale's version is told in diary format from the point of view of the maid--Dashti. I finished this one with mixed feelings. The conclusion I came to is that I wanted more. There was so much potential yet I felt I wasn't allowed to scratch past the surface of things. I liked Dashti, but she didn't have to struggle that hard to get what she got. Or at least her struggle wasn't given the gravity it deserved. Lady Saren, who had quite clearly been driven mad by some atrocious event, was so wonderfully vacant and creepy. I wanted to get to the root of her madness. When I finally found out, it was appropriately weird but it wasn't given enough time or depth. I wanted more. More psychological exploration, more emotion, more pages in general. Her previous books are chock full of it and so this one came off a bit...flat. These comments aside, I always recommend Shannon Hale highly and I eagerly await the fourth Bayern book. ...more July 30-31, 2009 Ummm... So I started this book at 2:00 am. (Note to self: don't start books at 2:00 am! Are you crazy???) Yeah, I couldn't put it down! I finished at about 7:00. Then my husband woke me up at noon! How rude! Doesn't he realize that reading makes me nocturnal? ;) Anyway, I started the book, and was like, \"Why is this written from the lady's maid's point of view and not from the lady's point of view. Yeah, that becomes very clear within just a few pages. I really loved Dashti\u2014she wa July 30-31, 2009 Ummm... So I started this book at 2:00 am. (Note to self: don't start books at 2:00 am! Are you crazy???) Yeah, I couldn't put it down! I finished at about 7:00. Then my husband woke me up at noon! How rude! Doesn't he realize that reading makes me nocturnal? ;) Anyway, I started the book, and was like, \"Why is this written from the lady's maid's point of view and not from the lady's point of view. Yeah, that becomes very clear within just a few pages. I really loved Dashti\u2014she was such a fascinating character! I loved the world that Shannon Hale created for this book. The acknowledgments at the back say that it's based on Mongolian history (hence the usage of \"khan\"...), which is just fascinating to me. (I've always wanted to go to Mongolia. I don't know why...... *shrugs*) The belief system in the book was so interesting, and the bad guy was SERIOUSLY FRIGHTENING! EEK! He was freaking me out! But good conquers evil (it IS based on a fairy tale, after all)... as it always will... eventually! ;) Loved it. It was fabulous! 4.5 stars, at least, which rounds up. ...more 3.5 stars for a cute YA high fantasy. Fans of fairy tale retellings, this is one for you! Dashti, a mucker maid, is going to be locked up in a tower with her Lady Saren for seven years. Lady Saren refused to marry a man she did not love, so Dashti must prepare for a rigorous and daunting imprisonment. Soon, Dashti finds rats in the flour and mold on the cheese. It becomes a struggle to survive, and Dashti also must deal with Lady Saren\u2019s two completely different suitors. Dashti must make a choice, for herself, and for Saren. In <+++>Book of a Thousand Days</+++>, Shannon Hale brings to life the Dashti, a mucker maid, is going to be locked up in a tower with her Lady Saren for seven years. Lady Saren refused to marry a man she did not love, so Dashti must prepare for a rigorous and daunting imprisonment. Soon, Dashti finds rats in the flour and mold on the cheese. It becomes a struggle to survive, and Dashti also must deal with Lady Saren\u2019s two completely different suitors. Dashti must make a choice, for herself, and for Saren. In <+++>Book of a Thousand Days</+++>, Shannon Hale brings to life the tale of Maid Maleen. Set in an area much like Mongolia, the Eight Realms, Hale creates up a social system very different than our own. Some realms are ruled by women, which rarely happened at the time. Hale strives to combine reality with magic, and focuses not on the princess, but on the dirty maid. Hale questions arranged marriage and encourages independence and hard work through the determined character of Dashti. Throughout the book, Hale carries a message of hope and fortitude. Hale succeeded in her message, and inspires girls to be stronger. Although Dashti often had an attitude of servitude, she prevails with her competing attitude of perseverance. Dashti challanges unfair but long used customs of arranged marriage, a lesson for girls. Most adapted fairy tales focus on the princesses, but Dashti is in no way a princess. She knows how to work, and Hale attempts to show a different kind of heroine . Book of a Thousand Days is a valuable book in today\u2019s world of Clique and Gossip Girl novels. It has a message that supports girls for who they are, while telling an entrancing tale. Despite not having that much action to attract reluctant readers, after a couple chapters, the book picks up. In today\u2019s society, any book with a strong girl main character that doesn\u2019t do drugs or make bad decisions is extremely valuable. I\u2019m very excited about this book because Shannon Hale is coming near me in January. The book raises a few questions for me that would be great to ask her. Shannon Hale has also written five other books; Austenland, River Secrets, Princess Academy, Enna Burning, and The Goose Girl. She has been heralded as one of the best living fantasy authors of the day. She won a Newbery Honor for Princess Academy. I adored Book of a Thousand Days because it was a fantasy with not too much magic. I\u2019m not a huge fantasy person, if only because I like to delve into a character\u2019s feelings. Many fantasies don\u2019t do that, and focus more on the magic. Book of a Thousand Days has characters with realistic, understandable feelings that draw you in to the fairy tale. ...more I enjoyed this a lot - so much so that I DIDN'T finish it last night. I wanted to save it so that I would have something to look forward to reading this afternoon. I found myself thinking about the story several times throughout the day and wondering how it might end. I wasn't disappointed. Another great job by Shannon Hale! Quite possibly Shannon's best book! A joyous read, rich with detail and written in the author's inimitible, poetic style. I not only felt a deep connection for the narrator, but also for the male protagonist, and the Mongolia-like world she created was gorgeous to behold. Lovely, lovely, lovely! This particular story has a fairy tale feel to it... and it was incredibly entertaining. Seven years they were to stay, Lady Saren and her handmaid Dashti. You\u2019d think the first a strong princess, a brave one\u2026 another one of those in your face, I\u2019ll do as I please versions of princesses. She\u2019s not. You\u2019d think Dashti, meek and obedient. She is. Despite said fact, it\u2019s still Dashti who shines in this one because the princess was often times too delicate, too soft, too shy\u2026 and just not quite all This particular story has a fairy tale feel to it... and it was incredibly entertaining. Seven years they were to stay, Lady Saren and her handmaid Dashti. You\u2019d think the first a strong princess, a brave one\u2026 another one of those in your face, I\u2019ll do as I please versions of princesses. She\u2019s not. You\u2019d think Dashti, meek and obedient. She is. Despite said fact, it\u2019s still Dashti who shines in this one because the princess was often times too delicate, too soft, too shy\u2026 and just not quite all there. And just so you know, all those stars are on account of Dashti, who\u2019s loyal to a fault, kind and soft hearted. It\u2019s Dashti who\u2019s a special ability to sing others well. She shines despite having to do things she had no choice but to do. Despite her servitude and the attitude she bore in that position, she\u2019s still a strong voice, the strongest in fact. Because were this all about Saren, I don\u2019t think I\u2019d have enjoyed the story one bit. It's Dashti\u2019s thoughts, her voice what excited me, what had me laughing and then sometimes cringing. I enjoyed her voice; the change in their circumstance and her views of the same. Starting off as excited, plodding toward being bored out of her mind, then later being utterly frustrated at what her lady would and would not do. There\u2019s the added bonus in how it\u2019s told: each entry by Dashti revealed the changes in her thinking and some times even glimpses of her Lady improving. There's also a fantastic and magical feel to it, but it's something that didn\u2019t drown everything else out. Her skill was just extra. This wasn\u2019t a heavy on the magic; it being mainly about staying resilient, holding true to who you are, what you want and what\u2019s right. 3.5/5 ...more Reviewed by Jessica Cave for TeensReadToo.com Shannon Hale's BOOK OF A THOUSAND DAYS is a riveting read that allows you to see into the soul of a young girl. Angry at her for not marrying the ruler of a nearby kingdom, Lady Saren's father locks her and her maid in a tower. He plans to leave them there for seven years. It is Dashti, the maid's, responsibility to keep them fed and in good condition, no matter how hot or how cold it may be. With evil lords, unresponsive guards, and dreamy suitors kn Reviewed by Jessica Cave for TeensReadToo.com Shannon Hale's BOOK OF A THOUSAND DAYS is a riveting read that allows you to see into the soul of a young girl. Angry at her for not marrying the ruler of a nearby kingdom, Lady Saren's father locks her and her maid in a tower. He plans to leave them there for seven years. It is Dashti, the maid's, responsibility to keep them fed and in good condition, no matter how hot or how cold it may be. With evil lords, unresponsive guards, and dreamy suitors knocking on their tiny window on a daily basis, they have enough views of outside life to keep living through to the next day. But when all signs of outside human life suddenly vanish, they find themselves in a race against time to save the eight realms and their own lives. I started and ended this book in a single day (despite having household tasks, homework, and a to-do list longer than it's ever been before). I was caught up in the world of Dashti and her dear Lady Saren. Their tale brought me to tears and made me laugh. This novel was definitely an enjoyable read that kept me turning pages as fast as I could. ...more I definitely liked the first half better than the last half (and I'm still convinced that I've read this before), but it was a good book. I love Shannon's writing style and how it's always so fairytale like and amazing. *needs to reread her Books of Bayern series immediately* Kisah yang sangat menakjubkan! Tanpa ragu saya memberikan bintang 5 untuk buku ini. Book of a Thousand Days bercerita tentang kehidupan yang dijalani Lady Saren dan pembantunya Dashti saat mereka dikunci oleh ayah Lady Saren di menara selama 7 tahun karena Lady Saren menolak perjodohan dirinya dengan salah satu penguasa daerah, Lord Khasar. Kisah ini diceritakan oleh Dashti yang memang pandai menulis dan membaca. Dashti datang untuk bekerja pada Lady Saren di hari kesatu tanpa mengetahui apa yang Kisah yang sangat menakjubkan! Tanpa ragu saya memberikan bintang 5 untuk buku ini. Book of a Thousand Days bercerita tentang kehidupan yang dijalani Lady Saren dan pembantunya Dashti saat mereka dikunci oleh ayah Lady Saren di menara selama 7 tahun karena Lady Saren menolak perjodohan dirinya dengan salah satu penguasa daerah, Lord Khasar. Kisah ini diceritakan oleh Dashti yang memang pandai menulis dan membaca. Dashti datang untuk bekerja pada Lady Saren di hari kesatu tanpa mengetahui apa yang akan menimpanya ketika Lady Saren menyuruhnya bersumpah tidak akan meninggalkannya. Dashti pun bersumpah dan dijebloskan ke dalam menara untuk menemani Lady Saren. Dashti menuliskan kegiatan dan kejadian yang menimpa mereka selama terkunci. Bagaimana persediaan makanan mereka perlahan-lahan digerogoti tikus, dan mereka harus berperang melawan tikus atau makanan mereka akan cepat habis. Lalu kekasih Lady Saren, Khan Tegus, datang. Namun Lady Saren menyuruh Dashti untuk berpura-pura menjadi dirinya dan berbincang-bincang melalui sebuah lobang di menara tanpa pernah saling menatap wajah satu sama lainnya. Setelah tiga tahun mereka terkunci di menara dan tak ada seorang pun yang datang menolong mereka, kecuali Lord Khasar yang mengancam dan menakut-nakuti mereka, persediaan makanan pun menipis, dan Dashti harus berjuang agar mereka bisa keluar dari menara itu. Setelah mereka berhasil keluar dari menara, mereka kembali ke kota Lady Saren untuk menemukan bahwa kotanya telah hancur dan semua anggota keluarganya mati. Kini tinggal dirinya dan Dashti yang tersisa. Tanpa memberitahu kemana mereka berjalan karena Lady Saren tak sudi menemui Khan Tegus, Dashti justru membawa Lady Saren ke kota Khan Tegus. Disana mereka bekerja sebagai pencuci panci kotor di dapur rumah Khan Tegus. Sementara itu Lady Saren tetap tak mau memberitahu jati dirinya karena khawatir dirinya akan dibunuh. Keberuntungan sepertinya mengiringi Dashti terus, hingga akhirnya Dashti bisa menjadi juru tulis di rumah itu sementara Lady Saren tetap bekerja sebagai pencuci panci di dapur. Lady Saren yang rapuh perlahan mulai terlihat sembuh, sementara Lord Khasar dan pasukannya perlahan namun pasti menguasai hampir semua daerah sekitar, dan sebentar lagi kota mereka pun akan diserang. Lord Khasar mengumumkan bahwa mereka tak akan menyerang kota itu, kalau mereka menyerahkan Lady Saren. Lagi-lagi Lady Saren menyuruh Dashti untuk menggantikan dirinya dan mengaku sebagai Lady Saren. Dashti tak bisa menolak karena dirinya sudah bersumpah setia. Dashti pun mengaku dirinya Lady Saren, dan mengorbankan dirinya ke Lord Khasar. Apakah Dashti bisa terus menjaga Lady Saren dan tetap hidup setelah menghadapi Lord Khasar? Menjelang ending ceritanya makin seru dan saya kagum dengan cara bercerita Shannon Hale yang tidak mudah tertebak. Memang, saya berharap a happy ending (ya, saya memang kuno) tapi bagaimana happy endingnya, Shannon Hale mampu mengantarkan saya ke akhir cerita yang indah. I really-really like this book *geleng-geleng ala Bollywood* Ide ceritanya orisinil dan alurnya tidak terlalu cepat juga tidak terlalu lambat. Pokoke pas dah :D ...more OMG THIS BOOK. Shannon Hale you mastermind!!! I cannot believe I had this GEM untouched on my bookshelf for so long---why, why am I an idiot?? Awww, it was so cute, and lovely, and emotional, and fairytale-like! What am I saying? This isn't just fairytale-like, this IS in fact a fairytale retold, and the original is called \"Maid Maleen\" by the Brothers Grimm. It basically tells the story of two girls, one a princess (not really a princess, but the daughter of a very rich and powerful lord) the ot OMG THIS BOOK. Shannon Hale you mastermind!!! I cannot believe I had this GEM untouched on my bookshelf for so long---why, why am I an idiot?? Awww, it was so cute, and lovely, and emotional, and fairytale-like! What am I saying? This isn't just fairytale-like, this IS in fact a fairytale retold, and the original is called \"Maid Maleen\" by the Brothers Grimm. It basically tells the story of two girls, one a princess (not really a princess, but the daughter of a very rich and powerful lord) the other one her maid, who get imprisoned in a tower because the princess refuses to marry this evil guy. A few years later they manage to escape and find out everyone in the kingdom is dead -- so they travel to a neighbour kingdom and start working in the kitchen of another powerful lord's house, but this one is kind and lovely and everything a woman wants in a man. The original story has the princess as the protagonist, but Shannon made the maid the heroine of Book of a Thousand Days , and I have to say IT WORKED. I love the irony between this book and my absolute favorite by the author, which is Goose Girl -- the stories are similar, but in Goose Girl the maid is vicious and steals the princess's identity, while in Book of a Thousand Days the poor maid, Dashti, has to pretend she's the princess because the real one is constantly afraid of the world and makes Dashti do things for her. I absolutely loved Dashti's voice and practical manner during the whole story; loved how she took care of what needed to be done most of the times under the worst circumstances; loved her undeniable loyalty towards her loony lady; loved the touching memories and stories regarding her mother, the only person she had in the world (YOU BREAK MY HEART SHANNON HALE!); loved how, in time, she realized she could make a difference, even if she wasn't born in a golden crib. I say, this is quite the flawless heroine. The writing is typical Shannon Hale: musical, addictive, sarcastic, brilliant, and my only regret is that the final events happened too fast -- I wanted more! Definitely one of the best books I've read this year so far, and a new all time favorite. Go read it! *PT* Cuidado com o D\u00e1lmata -- Book of a Thousand Days Fairy Tales Retold Challenge 2012 ~ 5/12 ...more After reading and thoroughly enjoying Goose Girl and Princess Academy, I was excited to see this new young adult novel (another retelling of an obscure fairytale) from Shannon Hale. I was even more excited when I saw that it had been given great reviews so far. Could I possibly enjoy a book from this genre more than Princess Academy? I was anxious to find out. Well, maybe it was my anticipation that left this book feeling flat. It was readable enough, for sure; the storytelling style (a diary) le After reading and thoroughly enjoying Goose Girl and Princess Academy, I was excited to see this new young adult novel (another retelling of an obscure fairytale) from Shannon Hale. I was even more excited when I saw that it had been given great reviews so far. Could I possibly enjoy a book from this genre more than Princess Academy? I was anxious to find out. Well, maybe it was my anticipation that left this book feeling flat. It was readable enough, for sure; the storytelling style (a diary) led to an easy-going, intriguing development of the plot. But for me, there just wasn\u2019t enough character development \u2014 to the reader, everyone is more or less just who they seem all the way through a book (ironic considering that disguise is a major plot element). I finally yielded that, given the first-person perspective, I wasn\u2019t ever going to learn the inner thoughts and motivations of Khan Tegus or Lady Saren \u2014 but even still, I found myself wishing for more growth from the characters. Even Dashti, who pours her secret thoughts out to the book (and us as readers), felt rather one-dimensional: yes, she finds strength to do hard things, to take risks \u2014 but she credits most of that to her mucker background; she\u2019s basically been the loyal, hardy type throughout the bulk of the story. So. I didn\u2019t love the book \u2014 but I did like the book. I liked that it was set in an Asian (Mongolian)-like setting; a unique setting that was a fresh surprise in this fairytale (though I didn\u2019t particularly care for the overemphasis of the made-up theology). I liked Dashti\u2019s moral courage; she is a strong heroine (even if her character development left little to surprise). Okay, okay; so maybe the one thing I liked unequivocally was the sweet romance and the happily-ever-after at the end! Does that make me shallow?? ;-) ...more I loved this Young Adult book! Hooray for Shannon Hale! I probably wouldn't recommend this book to girls under 12, but I think Hale has produced a wonderful heroine for the older teen set. I liked this book better than Princess Academy. I felt the themes were more accessible--everyone can relate to having a crush on someone totally out of your league. And who can\u2019t envision the horror of being betrothed to a grotesque villain or locked up with rats? I loved how the two girls-- Saren, a princess I loved this Young Adult book! Hooray for Shannon Hale! I probably wouldn't recommend this book to girls under 12, but I think Hale has produced a wonderful heroine for the older teen set. I liked this book better than Princess Academy. I felt the themes were more accessible--everyone can relate to having a crush on someone totally out of your league. And who can\u2019t envision the horror of being betrothed to a grotesque villain or locked up with rats? I loved how the two girls-- Saren, a princess and lady, and Dashti, a peasant \u201cmucker\u201d maid--reversed roles in the course of the story. The story begins with Dahti thinking that Saren is so much more valuable as a person because Saren is gentry. However, Dashti comes to realize that Saren is weak and cowardly. Slowly, Dashti evolves into a heroine partly out of necessity (she can see Saren doesn\u2019t possess what is needed to save them) and partly because she comes to realize that she is in love, and is loveable. Hale\u2019s writing style is amazing, as usual. And the setting of Mongolia with a dash of the mystical I found refreshingly different in today\u2019s fantasy market. I can\u2019t even describe what a fantastic book this is. I am always looking for books with great role models for my daughters, and this is definitely one of them! ...more Book of a Thousand Days is quite different from the rest of Shannon Hale\u2019s stories. This one has a completely different structure. It\u2019s written in the form of diary entries from the point of view of Dashti. I enjoyed reading about their imprisonment in the tower as it was captivating but I was disappointed they didn\u2019t stay in there longer, nor were their troubles all that life-threatening. The characters felt a bit flat this time around. I don\u2019t understand why Saren didn\u2019t want to marry her other Book of a Thousand Days is quite different from the rest of Shannon Hale\u2019s stories. This one has a completely different structure. It\u2019s written in the form of diary entries from the point of view of Dashti. I enjoyed reading about their imprisonment in the tower as it was captivating but I was disappointed they didn\u2019t stay in there longer, nor were their troubles all that life-threatening. The characters felt a bit flat this time around. I don\u2019t understand why Saren didn\u2019t want to marry her other suitor, as it wasn\u2019t explained very thoroughly. Dashti\u2019s song singing was pretty neat and I liked the fact that she wasn\u2019t the usual perfectly beautiful heroines as she was marked from birth with red splotches over her skin. Hale\u2019s writing was as fluid as ever but I felt there was something missing from it, just like the story. Maybe it proclaimed to have adventure, a lot of it, but there wasn\u2019t enough to substantiate my thirst. Dashti's song singing reminds me of this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8ur_... I\u2019ve never heard of this fairy tale and found it uber fun that she reset it on Asian steppes, because my Asian side of me totally digs that. There needs to be more of these sort of Asian-esque novels. Nice entry into her works but lacking something. ...more A true heroine rises from the Grimm Brother ashes. Hale has created a female character worthy to be loved and adored for a long time to come. She is filled with guts, heart, and soul. This is a tale of imprisonment, courage, love, romance, fantasy, and one spectacular protagonist. This is a tale of the silenced being given a voice, of the oppressed fighting their way out of darkness, so they can feel the burn of the sun of life on their skin once again. It is a tale about the power and magic of wor A true heroine rises from the Grimm Brother ashes. Hale has created a female character worthy to be loved and adored for a long time to come. She is filled with guts, heart, and soul. This is a tale of imprisonment, courage, love, romance, fantasy, and one spectacular protagonist. This is a tale of the silenced being given a voice, of the oppressed fighting their way out of darkness, so they can feel the burn of the sun of life on their skin once again. It is a tale about the power and magic of words. And the power of the female body. Hale uses Dashti, her beautifully crafted mucker maid, to express the necessity of the written word, and to provide the glorious hope of storytelling. Everybody has a story worth telling, because everybody has a life worth living. Dashti, for me, represents of those who have been told they can't. All those who have been silenced, broken down, pushed aside. But all those who have believed in their worth, in their need to tell their story. ...more Sigh. I really, really wanted to love this book because I love Shannon Hale and all my Goodreads friends have given it 5 or 4 stars but... I just didn't . I didn't like Dashti or Saren. Really, I HATED Saren. More often than not I wanted to beat her head against a rock. She's stupid, annoying, and a terrible person. Dashti, the narrator, wasn't much better. While people who like the book would probably say that she's just fiercely loyal, I found her to be kind of an idiot. I think I would've boug Sigh. I really, really wanted to love this book because I love Shannon Hale and all my Goodreads friends have given it 5 or 4 stars but... I just didn't . I didn't like Dashti or Saren. Really, I HATED Saren. More often than not I wanted to beat her head against a rock. She's stupid, annoying, and a terrible person. Dashti, the narrator, wasn't much better. While people who like the book would probably say that she's just fiercely loyal, I found her to be kind of an idiot. I think I would've bought the whole \"maid willing to be locked up for 7 years to serve her lady\" thing if Dashti had been with Saren for years before it had happened. But no, Dashti had literally just met Lady Saren when she agreed to be locked in a tower for 7 years with a whiny brat she didn't even know. I don't find that to be loyal, I find it to be idiotic. Especially (view spoiler) [once Dashti figures out how to get out of the tower, and Saren freaks out and cries and takes like 3 days to \"work up the courage\" to leave, followed by months of acting like a child and refusing to take responsibility for herself. Seriously, Dashti. LEAVE HER. (hide spoiler) ] I appreciated the whole ancient Mongolian kind of feel and backdrop for the book, but the constant references to the Eternal Blue Sky and the Sacred 9 really started to grate on my nerves. If I had a dollar for every time Dashti said \"Ancestors, forgive me\" or talked about praying to a specific god I would be able to buy myself a nice, big library of books I actually enjoy. I also found that I was annoyed by the healing songs Dashti would sing, mostly because she would ALWAYS preface it by saying \"I sang the song for [whatever], the one that goes like this.....\" as if knowing the nonsensical words would actually mean anything to read. I could go on, but just know that Shannon Hale has done much better. The Goose Girl is fantastic and forever one of my favorites, but skip Book of a Thousand Days. 2 stars at the most ...more Another retellings to add to my collection, this book was different and intriguing with some of my favourite plot devises ever! I loved the story telling format and the illustrations as well as the strength of the main character, Dashti! I would never have picked this one out for myself without seeing it praised on the GoodReads group page \"Steampunk, New, Weird, Bizzaro, Scifi, Fantasy Book Group\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/group/show/2... ). When it starts out, it sounded to me like a sword-and-sorcery, princesses-and-magical realms kind of story written for a teen-aged audience. It quickly changed course, and developed into a really very good book. The story is based on a Grimm's Fairy Tale I never heard of: \"Maid Maleen.\" The st I would never have picked this one out for myself without seeing it praised on the GoodReads group page \"Steampunk, New, Weird, Bizzaro, Scifi, Fantasy Book Group\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/group/show/2... ). When it starts out, it sounded to me like a sword-and-sorcery, princesses-and-magical realms kind of story written for a teen-aged audience. It quickly changed course, and developed into a really very good book. The story is based on a Grimm's Fairy Tale I never heard of: \"Maid Maleen.\" The story has been re-cast (I assume)into medieval Mongolia, with a pretty realistic setting of the constantly battling khans, or local war-lords, forever attacking or defending their city/states from one another. Against that backdrop is the story of a young princess, or daughter of a khan, and her serving-maid, who is in fact the heroine of the tale. On the very first page, Dashti, the serving-girl, and her mistress, Saren are being walled-up within a three-story tower by her (Saren's) vengeful father because the thirteen-year-old princess refuses the match arranged for her by him in order to seal a strategic allegiance with another city-state. Saren, of course, prefers to marry a different, younger, more charming, more romantic Khan who she has fallen in love with. The arranged marriage, is of course with the most evil and debased of the surrounding war-lords. The first quarter of the book relates the cruel and pointless life within the tower, which allows no view or communication with the outside world, except for what can be gleaned through a small hole the size of an omitted brick, through which they eject their waste each day. The tower has its own water well and has been stocked with what Saren's father believes to be sufficient food to least the two of them for the whole seven years. -----------SPOILER ALERT!-------------------- After a very long time and a very well-written description of their confinement, the two escape from the tower. The second quarter of the book relates their dreary travels and their efforts to survive alone on the desolate plains of war-torn Mongolia. Again, this is a very well-written portion of the book. This portion of the book reminded me somewhat of \"The Road\" by Cormac McCarthy, except that the fire, ash, soots, smoke, and devastation through which this pair struggles is not some un-named cataclysm, it is the all-too-real result of an actual historic culture of ceaseless warfare. In my opinion, a better depiction of the human condition under such circumstances! ------------MORE SPOILERS!------------------- The next section details their lives incognito living in the city of the princess's love-object, the young and handsome Khan. The two take refuge as scullery maids, the hand-maiden of course, fitting right in immediately, but the princess, of course, struggling to believe and adapt to the rigors of life among the under-classes. This section begins to flesh out the girls' characters, particularly their developing romantic longings. Up to this point, the princess has been nearly hopelessly dependent on Dashti, but now, she begins to develop as something more than a pampered victim and pitiful figure. Dashti, too develops, and the depth of her internal resources and inventiveness in bringing them to bear on their situation is exploited to advance the story in interesting ways. -------------EVEN MORE SPOILERS!-------------- The final portion of the book is the climax of several story threads ... the revelation of the princess's true identity, the exposure of Dashti's romantic longings, the climactic confrontation of (of course) the dashing young Khan who Saren has loved from the first with the dastardly and evil ruler to whom she was promised by her father so long ago. With somewhat predictable results. I generally disdain stories of magic, because when magic is introduced, anything goes, and without some kind of restraint, the writing just seems to me like shooting fish in a barrel - imaginative, maybe, but not really interesting. There are huge exceptions to this rule of mine, of course, and the only proper judge of when a good story is served well by the introduction of magic is ... well ... it's me. The magical portion of this story is not much of a surprise by the time it occurs, and it is of a form that has such a long history that it has constraints and limitations of its own, which are honored here, and even exploited. The climax of this book on the battlefield is very satisfying and laces together several threads of the story planted earlier and seamlessly in the book. As almost an anti-climax, the final chapter of the book resolves the romantic issues which had been placed on hold because of the war, which is in itself a very realistic proposition, I guess. Again, none of this is much of a surprise, but as fairy-tales must do, this one ties up all the loose ends and evokes the eternal moral that it's not who you are or how you look that matters, but what you do. Honor, character, bravery, loyalty, and the rest prevail in a satisfactory ending. ------------------------------- CONCLUSION I liked this book very much. It was an interesting and easy read. For sure it is intended for a young-reader audience and will appeal to young girls I think much more than boys of any age. I am neither young nor female, but I was running the high-concept movie in my head the whole time I was reading this book and finished wishing that someone would make this exciting tale into a movie RIGHT NOW! ...more As luck would have it, the very day Dashti enters the service of a lady is the very day said lady is bricked into a tower for seven years to learn obedience. Dashti goes along with her to keep her company and take care of her. Between fighting off rats, Lady Saren's torpor, and the unsettling attentions of Saren's two very different suitors, Dashti has her hands full. And that's just the beginning. I love Dashti. She grows so much in this book! She starts off a simple girl from a simple way of li As luck would have it, the very day Dashti enters the service of a lady is the very day said lady is bricked into a tower for seven years to learn obedience. Dashti goes along with her to keep her company and take care of her. Between fighting off rats, Lady Saren's torpor, and the unsettling attentions of Saren's two very different suitors, Dashti has her hands full. And that's just the beginning. I love Dashti. She grows so much in this book! She starts off a simple girl from a simple way of life, unquestioningly following the laws of the land, and she becomes a strong woman, confident in herself and her abilities. The book is really Dashti's diary, so it was interesting to see her thinking and even her writing style change as she grows into herself. Dashti's is the most obvious transformation, but Lady Saren quietly undergoes some drastic changes. She starts out a weak, irritating, ineffective girl who seems to be nothing but a chain around Dashti's neck, but sometime when you aren't looking she becomes something... more. This is my first time reading Shannon Hale, and if this is any indication of the rest of her work, it won't be my last. I sat down to get started on this before spending a little time on the computer, and the next thing I knew I was finishing it. Seriously. One sitting. There was one part that started to drag just a little bit, but somehow a book about two girls in a tower became a page turner. I enjoyed how Dashti's \"voice\" changed as she changed, and I'm very impressed with Hale's skill in pulling that off. I was thrilled to read a young adult book with a strong female lead and no love triangle in sight! Yay! I know I wrote the bit about two suitors, but believe me, there's no love triangle. I highly recommend this all the way around. ...more After her mother's death, Dashti the mucker leaves the desolate steppe in search of her fortune (or at least, survival). On her first day as a maid, she is assigned to Lady Saren--who is promptly locked in a tower for refusing to marry the formidable Lord Khasar. Although Saren is silly and clearly too traumatized to think straight, Dashti is so overwhelmed by their class differences that she lets Saren do whatever she wants, even eat all their food. To make matters worse, Khasar shows up outsid After her mother's death, Dashti the mucker leaves the desolate steppe in search of her fortune (or at least, survival). On her first day as a maid, she is assigned to Lady Saren--who is promptly locked in a tower for refusing to marry the formidable Lord Khasar. Although Saren is silly and clearly too traumatized to think straight, Dashti is so overwhelmed by their class differences that she lets Saren do whatever she wants, even eat all their food. To make matters worse, Khasar shows up outside their tower and swears he'll tear down the tower to get Lady Saren. Dashti is clever enough to figure out a way to escape the tower, and she hauls Saren along with her like dead weight. They make it to the city ruled by Saren's childhood friend, Lord Tegan. Saren (who is practically catatonic with shock) forces Dashti to switch places with her, and while Saren works in the kitchen Dashti is forced to pretend to be a lady. But then Khasar shows up at the city walls, demanding Saren, and Dashti's true identity is revealed. Unique characters, a haunting and creepy story, set in a fantasy world that is not medieval Europe--I should have loved this. As it was, I could barely get through it. I think it's mostly because the target audience for this book is much younger than I. The book felt really manipulative, to the extent that I got extremely frustrated with Dashti for A)not realizing how damaged Saren was and B)being soooo perfect and humble. In fact, her wide-eyed amazement that nobility could ever deign to talk to such a low-class mucker as herself got really, really old really, really fast. Dashti is consistently smarter and braver than everyone else, and it got unbelievable that she never notices this. ...more So here I was, so incredibly tired after a long day that I decided I was going to start a light book and go to sleep early... next thing I know it's 3 AM and I'm at 70% of Book of a Thousand Days . I only stopped reading because I couldn't keep my eyes open any longer! The only Shannon Hale books I'd read before were the Ever After High ones and I found those surprisingly good, so I was eager to read more of her work. I admit what first prompted me to pick this one was that it only had 5-star or 2 So here I was, so incredibly tired after a long day that I decided I was going to start a light book and go to sleep early... next thing I know it's 3 AM and I'm at 70% of Book of a Thousand Days . I only stopped reading because I couldn't keep my eyes open any longer! The only Shannon Hale books I'd read before were the Ever After High ones and I found those surprisingly good, so I was eager to read more of her work. I admit what first prompted me to pick this one was that it only had 5-star or 2-star reviews, and I found that intriguing xD What can I say? Hale's writing is excelent. The story is told from the perspective of the princess' maid, and what we're reading is the maid's diary or \"book of thoughts\". As she passes her days in the tower, she grows bored and starts writing about the events that brought them there. It's a beautiful story, beautifully told. Dashti's growth throughout the book is so subtly and smoothly crafted, by the end we can't believe she's the same girl that started writing her diary. I loved the setting too, inspired by medieval Mongolia, and the religion Hale created, that comes to play an important part in the ending. I can safely say I'm a fan of Shannon Hale now xD ...more I still can't get over why Dashti can place her foot out the 'mini' window, hold hands with the Khan and be pulled out forcefully by the Khan but they can never peek out to see each other's faces. Yup, still boggles me. Oh, and the fact that it took 2 years and a few months before she figured out that of course the rats had a way in/out of the tower! I really tried to shut off my brain while reading this and kept reminding myself that it's a children's book but I just couldn't shut it off complet I still can't get over why Dashti can place her foot out the 'mini' window, hold hands with the Khan and be pulled out forcefully by the Khan but they can never peek out to see each other's faces. Yup, still boggles me. Oh, and the fact that it took 2 years and a few months before she figured out that of course the rats had a way in/out of the tower! I really tried to shut off my brain while reading this and kept reminding myself that it's a children's book but I just couldn't shut it off completely. There wasn't a thing about Dashti that gave me warm thoughts. EDIT: And then I noticed I seem to be the odd man out. Read the positive reviews if you're thinking of reading this book! :) ...more Read this for a book club challenge. I didn't realize it was a \"Young Adult\" genre until I started reading it and found myself wondering about the writing style and then there were pictures throughout the book (which I found myself looking forward to) Apparently, this book is based off of a Grimm Fairytale in which the author greatly embellished into a book of its own, which I found intriguing. A maid and her Lady Saren are looked into a tower, sentenced for seven years. I found myself wanting to Read this for a book club challenge. I didn't realize it was a \"Young Adult\" genre until I started reading it and found myself wondering about the writing style and then there were pictures throughout the book (which I found myself looking forward to) Apparently, this book is based off of a Grimm Fairytale in which the author greatly embellished into a book of its own, which I found intriguing. A maid and her Lady Saren are looked into a tower, sentenced for seven years. I found myself wanting to know how the story ended, and it was a lighter, quick read. ...more Ever since I was able to read (when I was about four years old, I believe), I always found something admirable about authors. Perhaps it was just so magical the way they picked out words, stuck them here and there, sewed them together, and, voil\u00e0! had their stories collected in nicely-bound books. It was as if they were a sort of literary witches and wizards. But now, they also strike me as chefs; some give you a tasty but calorie-packed hamburger with deep-fried French fries that fill you up bu Ever since I was able to read (when I was about four years old, I believe), I always found something admirable about authors. Perhaps it was just so magical the way they picked out words, stuck them here and there, sewed them together, and, voil\u00e0! had their stories collected in nicely-bound books. It was as if they were a sort of literary witches and wizards. But now, they also strike me as chefs; some give you a tasty but calorie-packed hamburger with deep-fried French fries that fill you up but make you want something more (your everyday fluff fiction\u2014which I\u2019ve read none of), others cook up a plate filled with a perfect piece of filet mignon along a delectable side dish of vegetables (beautiful classics, e.g. Pride and Prejudice ), and a few serve way a Thanksgiving dinner-type meal with too much to take in but are very good otherwise, like a Thanksgiving dinner ( War and Peace , A Tale of Two Cities \u2014not that I\u2019ve actually read or finished either). If this was so\u2014if those cheesy YA lit authors flipped burgers at McDonald\u2019s and Jane Austen was the Julia Child of this world\u2014then Shannon Hale would most likely be a sous-chef of the latter. Or perhaps I\u2019ve just been watching a tad bit too much Food Network and cooking-related shows. Summary: Everyone gets grounded by their parents for misbehaving once in awhile; sometimes a ten-year-old can\u2019t watch his or her favorite TV show for a week, or a teen is forbidden from calling their friends every night for a month. What would you do if you had the option to stay with a friend who was to be grounded for seven years in a tower, and if you didn\u2019t step up to stay with her, no one would? This is exactly the question that Dashti, a young mucker living in medieval Mongolian times, faces when given the chance to become the maidservant of Lady Saren, who is given this sentence for refusing to marry a man she has feared ever since she was a young girl. If Dashti said no, this story would be nonexistent; but she said yes, and thus, an adventure began. I really can\u2019t say more than that, or I\u2019ll give it away, but if you read the \u201crecipe\u201d above, that is exactly what this three hundred-odd paged book contains: an intriguing plot, marvelous lyrical writing, characters you feel like you\u2019ve known all your life, and fantastic adventure fantasy with the right amount of romance that will keep female readers young and old swooning (here\u2019s a secret: I totally LOVED the romance and swooned for days on end :D ). Thoughts: I\u2019ll be honest. I love fairy tales, especially Brothers Grimm ones. But never in my life had I heard of \u201cMaid Maleen\u201d, not until I heard about this novel. So after reading the synopsis of it on Wikipedia, you\u2019d think Hale\u2019s version of it would be exactly the same, just written and lengthened in typical Hale flair. In reality, it\u2019s almost as if the author combined \u201cMaid Maleen\u201d with a trillion other classics: Mansfield Park and Persuasion ( Jane Austen ), Cyrano de Bergerac ( Edmond Rostand ), Jane Eyre ( Charlotte Bront\u00eb ); in addition, there is a scene towards the end that is easily comparable in artistry and intelligence to the famous pivotal trial in Harper Lee \u2019s To Kill a Mockingbird . Even if you don\u2019t know me very well, you would\u2014and should\u2014be aware of my secret and unbearable obsession with this book, which I recommend to even the most reluctant readers. But allow me to put it this way: if you hate plots that are absolutely stunning, if you hate fantasy with a classic feel to it, if you hate heroines who have a little na\u00efve goody two-shoes side to them, then you won\u2019t like this book. But really, who doesn\u2019t want at least one of those things? Pros: Pretty much everything and anything about it, but see below for the one thing I didn\u2019t like. Cons: As much as I rave about this book, I may honestly say that there was one part near the ending that turned the story into complete YA (which is a little shocking, being that this is a Hale novel) and almost adult; it was a somewhat edgy scene (I don\u2019t know if that\u2019s the right word), and it totally came as a surprise for me. I wasn\u2019t fond of it, and I think it could have been done without and changed. Recommended For: I\u2019ve heard of a few guys who have read this book and enjoyed it, but I don\u2019t personally know any guys who like reading, so\u2026I guess I should say I recommend this to any girl fourteen and up, and a very mature, bookworm-ish guy fifteen or sixteen and up. Grading: Plot: 10/10 Characters: 10/10 Writing: 10/10 Overall: 10/10 Also Recommended: - The Goose Girl by Shannon Hale - Princess Academy by Shannon Hale - Howl's Moving Castle by Diana Wynne Jones For more reviews like this one, please visit my blog, Butterfly Forest . ...more If I had not started blogging and reading other blogs I don't think I would have ever read a Shannon Hale book. I'd never even heard of her until I read reviews of her books on the Internet. But about 20 or so pages into my first Shannon Hale book I thought, uh-oh, I don't think I am going to like this book. I've heard so much about Shannon Hale and her books but I'm not gonna like them. The problem is that I have never been a fan of fantasy, but before I knew it I was half way through the book If I had not started blogging and reading other blogs I don't think I would have ever read a Shannon Hale book. I'd never even heard of her until I read reviews of her books on the Internet. But about 20 or so pages into my first Shannon Hale book I thought, uh-oh, I don't think I am going to like this book. I've heard so much about Shannon Hale and her books but I'm not gonna like them. The problem is that I have never been a fan of fantasy, but before I knew it I was half way through the book and totally engrossed in the story. I stayed up until after 1:00 last night so I could finish reading it. Here is what the publisher says about Book of a Thousand Days:\"When Dashti, a maid, and Lady Saren, her mistress, are shut in a tower for seven years for Saren\u2019s refusal to marry a man she despises, the two prepare for a very long and dark imprisonment. As food runs low and the days go from broiling hot to freezing cold, it is all Dashti can do to keep them fed and comfortable. But the arrival outside the tower of Saren\u2019s two suitors\u2014one welcome, and the other decidedly less so\u2014brings both hope and great danger, and Dashti must make the desperate choices of a girl whose life is worth more than she knows.\" I become engrossed in the story because I really wanted to know what was going to happen to these girls and for the most part I really liked Dashti's voice as she wrote in her diary. A great deal of the book was a bit predictable but even though I could guess what was going to happen, it did not make the story any less enjoyable to read. At times, I did feel that Dashti used language and phrases that were a bit modern and western and therefor felt foreign and misplaced in this tale. And there were some parts that seemed a bit contrived and hokey but overall I really enjoyed this book. Book of a Thousand Days is a wonderful story about love, friendship, family and loyalty for young or even not so young readers. ...more Shannon Hale is climbing the ranks in becoming one of my favorite authors, and this book helped a great deal, by being an automatic add to my favorites shelf. I read it in 2 days, and absolutely loved it! She has perfected the craft of Grimm's fairy tale reduxes. Dashti is a mucker, which means that she has grown up in the steppes of Mongolia, in a gher, and also has the power of healing through song. When she is no longer able to live in the steppes, she goes to town, and quickly is hired and tr Shannon Hale is climbing the ranks in becoming one of my favorite authors, and this book helped a great deal, by being an automatic add to my favorites shelf. I read it in 2 days, and absolutely loved it! She has perfected the craft of Grimm's fairy tale reduxes. Dashti is a mucker, which means that she has grown up in the steppes of Mongolia, in a gher, and also has the power of healing through song. When she is no longer able to live in the steppes, she goes to town, and quickly is hired and trained to be the maid to Lady Saren. Unluckily, Dashti pledges to do her lady's bidding the same day that Lady Saren's father decides the fitting punishment for turning down the proposal of Lord Khasar, and instead wanting to marry Khan Tegus, is to wall her up in a tower...for 7 years. Dashti hardly hesitates before she agrees to go into the tower with Lady Saren, because her Lady bids it. The book takes the format of a diary that Dashti writes from the tower. She finds that Lady Saren is unexplainably terrified of Lord Khasar, and, when Khan Tegus comes to visit, Dashti is shocked to find Lady Saren bid her to talk to him through the tower in her place. Over their several nights of discussions, Dashti discovers that Khan Tegus is a wonderful person, and, despite her efforts not to, she falls in love with him. This leads to several problems, not the least of which is that Dashti and Lady Saren have hardly begun their seven years of captivity in the tower. There is so much more to this story. It has everything that I look for in a good tale, including a believable sense of place, a unique and fully realized main character, adventure, romance, and more. It has the sadness that turned me off from The Goose Girl, but in this book, it fits into a more realistic and well-rounded world, rather than being overwhelmingly depressing. In the end, I found this more like Ella Enchanted, one of my most favorite books, than any of Gail Carson Levine's follow-ups. ...more Hale keeps getting better with each book I read. Dashti is a charming and engaging character, Tegus is wonderful, and I love the way Hale takes real beliefs and traditions and adds just a little edge of fantasy to them. I've read three of Hale's books, and she seems to have a very different (and consistent) way of treating nobility vs. commoners. The three protagonists so far have been solid, intelligent commoners - and the vast majority of her commoners have been in the same vein. Meanwhile, mal Hale keeps getting better with each book I read. Dashti is a charming and engaging character, Tegus is wonderful, and I love the way Hale takes real beliefs and traditions and adds just a little edge of fantasy to them. I've read three of Hale's books, and she seems to have a very different (and consistent) way of treating nobility vs. commoners. The three protagonists so far have been solid, intelligent commoners - and the vast majority of her commoners have been in the same vein. Meanwhile, male members of the nobility have fared pretty well, seeing as they're often romantic fodder (as much as there is romantic fodder in any of Hale's books). But women of the nobility have been weak, vicious, cruel, stupid, crazy - not very flattering portrayals, especially because they weren't all villains. Saren drove me nuts, crazy little weakling she was, and Isi from Enna Burning was similar, though she at least had half a brain. They're effective foils for her protagonists, I guess. I thought I knew Lord Khasar's secret, but I was wrong - and Hale gave me all the information I could need, too. Usually I'm much more on top of things. Nitpicks aside, a wonderful book with a strong main character, scary villain, excellent love interest, and great plot. ...more This was a lovely tale. I love the way Hale is able to set her stories in a place \u201cother\u201d than where we live. She gives enough detail so its obviously not here, but not so much that you need to worry about building a world in your mind. She keeps enough familiarity that the differences simply add to the tale, not detract from it. Had there not been (view spoiler) [ a werewolf in this novel I would be giving it five stars instead of 4. I wish she had found another means of making him deplorable. I This was a lovely tale. I love the way Hale is able to set her stories in a place \u201cother\u201d than where we live. She gives enough detail so its obviously not here, but not so much that you need to worry about building a world in your mind. She keeps enough familiarity that the differences simply add to the tale, not detract from it. Had there not been (view spoiler) [ a werewolf in this novel I would be giving it five stars instead of 4. I wish she had found another means of making him deplorable. I actually feel he may have been despicable enough simply being the power hungry warrior he was. The whole werewolf angle was unneeded and distracting to me. (hide spoiler) ] There was so much character growth in these pages. For the relatively short length a lot happens, but each event is described enough that we understand the importance and the characters develop as a result of each. There seemed to be no filler. That\u2019s a rarity and I appreciate it. This was obviously written with a young audience in mind, but Hale in no way dumbs down her subject matter. This felt more like an adult fairy tale along the lines of Stephen King\u2019s Through the Eyes of the Dragon, that your typical YA novel. ...more", "Title": "Book of a Thousand Days"},
