{"Comments": "when i finished the book, i realized that the hurricane's presence in it had been much stronger than i had realized at first. even though katrina occupies only two chapters, it seems as if the prose breathes hurricane weather in and out in every chapter -- through water, heat,<---M> stifling humidity</---M>, the stillness of the air and then the non-stillness of the air as the trees sway in a wind that gives no relief, hunger, dirt, restless sleep. you know it if you've been in a hurricane, but i think havin when i finished the book, i realized that the hurricane's presence in it had been much stronger than i had realized at first. even though katrina occupies only two chapters, it seems as if the prose breathes hurricane weather in and out in every chapter -- through water, heat, stifling humidity, the stillness of the air and then the non-stillness of the air as the trees sway in a wind that gives no relief, hunger, dirt, restless sleep. you know it if you've been in a hurricane, but i think having followed one on tv may be enough. the tv, though, doesn't give much of a sense of the tremendous heat. the heat and the humidity are enormous. so this book is pretty amazing -- brave, really, because it tells, it seems to me, a rather unconventional story using the weather as the thing the book is about, the atmosphere the book's events are wrapped in, and a metaphor for various elements of the narrative. this is a book that is rife with metaphors, but they didn't seem heavy to me; also, i don't mind heavy. the story is unconventional because these are people who are truly at the margins of representation. poor, rural black people appear in movies and books only as color. if they play any role at all other than that, it is to be bit characters in genre fiction. there are just not a lot of places where you get to see rural black folks in their communities as fully developed characters with rich, interesting and complex lives. my personal experience proves nothing, of course, but i think i've encountered these people only in slave literature -- and then they were not these people at all (i'm mentioning them only because they were black, rural, and poor)! so really this is interesting and beautiful because it opens up a space for other people to be met, seen, and known.<---F> it enlarges the scope of representation</---F>. it enriches the cultural village. there is a huge blank space in representation and this book helps fill it. and these lives are interesting. they are fascinating. they are rich with love, desire, family, courage, survival, communication, growing up, trying to be good, trying to do good. they are not alien lives. they are intense and nuanced lives minus air conditioning, square meals, and working televisions. this should not need to be said and maybe my saying it is offensive, but i think many of us just don't realize it because we never see it. poor rural black people are just about as othered as people get in our society. i think i feel more connected to poor black folks in other countries than to poor black folks in the united states. if our culture does anything about poor rural (and urban) black communities, it teaches us to be afraid of them. this book kicks this fear in the teeth. i think, by the way, that jesmyn ward did the exact right thing in not trying to represent accents and regionalisms in the writing, because that would have reproposed the othering. there is so much more than can be said about this book -- in fact, i have spoken not at all about what happens in it. but we are discussing this in january 2012 over at Literary Fiction by People of Color so there will be plenty of time to get into the intricacies of the story when the discussion gets started (link to come). what i wanted to say here was mostly that this is a beautiful and brave novel, and that everyone should read it, and then maybe a movie should be made of it, and that people should start getting to know each other beyond the heinous stereotypes hammered into us by the stupid news. ...more There is a moment in the beginning of this book when I want to put the book down (the birthing of puppies). There is a point in the middle when I breathe raggedly, as though from a gut punch (Ward\u2019s description of the dog fight). And there are long stretches at the end of this book when I cannot take my horrified eyes from the page, when I feel my insides crumbling and my heart breaking and my memories reeling and I know I have read something extraordinary. <---A>Jesmyn Ward</---A> just gives us words, but wo There is a moment in the beginning of this book when I want to put the book down (the birthing of puppies). There is a point in the middle when I breathe raggedly, as though from a gut punch (Ward\u2019s description of the dog fight). And there are long stretches at the end of this book when I cannot take my horrified eyes from the page, when I feel my insides crumbling and my heart breaking and my memories reeling and I know I have read something extraordinary. Jesmyn Ward just gives us words, but words like none other has written. She has put them together in a way that creates a world apart but with all the love, pain, pathos, hope, fear, and loyalty that we will recognize from the finest examples of our literature. When she describes the color and texture of a man\u2019s arm, or the watery pressure of a new pregnancy, or the terror of discovering rising water through the floorboards of one\u2019s living room, Jesmyn Ward has caught that thing as though it were alive. When I try to say in a few words the story of this novel, everything I write is inadequate. A poor family lives outside a town but near the coast in Mississippi. Our narrator is fourteen with hair that frames her head \u201clike a pillow.\u201d She has three brothers, a father that drinks too much, and several paramours but one in particular. Katrina hits and we experience the storm. This is classic literature, and, difficult as it may seem at first, wholly appropriate for teens. It is a little like saying A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier by Ishmael Beah is a teen title. That book, about a teen forced into soldiering in Sierra Leone, is similarly hard-hitting. It might be better for our teens to know than not to know. They are exposed to so much anyway--a little reality might improve their outlook. I wouldn't \"require\" this novel, but I would add it to reading lists. Teens can do much worse than experience the exquisite sense of language in this wholly original work. ...more Salvage this Book. That\u2019s my take, though I do feel bad about dogging it. Not for the author\u2019s sake\u2014for mine. With lavish awards and reviews, I suspect I\u2019m missing something. Like I\u2019m some plot-driven bonehead who can\u2019t see the point of this softer tale. And I tried so hard. I\u2019ve never had so many 4-page reading sessions\u2014all totaled, it took 3 months to read this 200-page book. The most frustrating part about it is that sentence-by-sentence, Jesmyn Ward wrote a damn beautiful collection. These p Salvage this Book. That\u2019s my take, though I do feel bad about dogging it. Not for the author\u2019s sake\u2014for mine. With lavish awards and reviews, I suspect I\u2019m missing something. Like I\u2019m some plot-driven bonehead who can\u2019t see the point of this softer tale. And I tried so hard. I\u2019ve never had so many 4-page reading sessions\u2014all totaled, it took 3 months to read this 200-page book. The most frustrating part about it is that sentence-by-sentence, Jesmyn Ward wrote a damn beautiful collection. These pampered phrases are poetic, serene and metaphorically delectable. It\u2019s in stringing them together where she gets into trouble. First, Ward is a muddled narrator of action, a problem she remedies in the first half of the novel by not including any. Most pages read like a jumpy catalogue of scattered activities and observations. Conflict exists, but lingers on the fringe, where it remains inert, waiting for a catalyst that doesn\u2019t arrive. On top of this, the first-person narration of an under-educated, clich\u00e9, pregnant black-teen feels wildly inconsistent. Forget about the fact that this narrator has no business using words like \u201cdetritus,\u201d dialogue like \u201cAnd we wasn\u2019t fixing to drown it in no bucket\u201d just doesn\u2019t mesh with prose like \u201cIn the woods, animals dart between the valleys of shadow, birds trill up through pathways of sunlight,\u201d when it is supposed to be come from the same voice. On the dimly-lit bright side, Ward does succeed in providing a vivid portrayal of a poor Louisiana black family and community. Unfortunately, it takes a hurricane (literally) to provide any momentum to the story. And this doesn't happen until the final third of the novel, at which point I was so agitated with having muscled through the long-winded setup, I couldn\u2019t bring myself to enjoy it. If you\u2019re the poetic type who just can\u2019t pass up a pretty sentence, here\u2019s my recommendation. Wander aimlessly through the first 8 chapters, cherry-pick without concern over what\u2019s happening. (Warning: least-potent-spoiler-ever ahead) Now turn to chapter 9. The hurricane is coming, Mom died years ago, the narrator is prego, and her brother is caring for his wounded dog. You have 65 pages to go. Enjoy. ...more I couldn't dull the edges and fall in love with my characters and spare them. Life doesn't spare us. -Jesmyn Ward The words in this novel are wounds with fragile scabs. This story is the beat of a wounded girl's heart; it bleeds on the page and hurts to read. These words are tears that have not been shed, so they build up on the inside and fill up buckets of anguish: I learned how to cry so that almost no tears leaked out of my eyes, so that I swallowed the hot salty water of them and felt them ru I couldn't dull the edges and fall in love with my characters and spare them. Life doesn't spare us. -Jesmyn Ward The words in this novel are wounds with fragile scabs. This story is the beat of a wounded girl's heart; it bleeds on the page and hurts to read. These words are tears that have not been shed, so they build up on the inside and fill up buckets of anguish: I learned how to cry so that almost no tears leaked out of my eyes, so that I swallowed the hot salty water of them and felt them running down my throat. Hurricane Katrina is twelve days away. Enter The Pit, a clearing of trailer homes in the coastal town of Bois Sauvage, Mississippi. Junk cars, used appliances, a misplaced RV, and fighting pit bulls. Hear from Esch, a motherless child who searches for love in sex, a child with a drunk and physically abusive father, a girl child who lives with three brothers in a place as dark as night, with some semblance of love to shine through. Here, love is distorted, perception skewed. The rest of the world exists on the other side of The Pit, where it averts its face. Hurricane Katrina knows this. She targets them with her fighting winds, these downtrodden survivors, but in them she meets her match. For survivors are powerless but strong. And in The Pit, these survivors know all about fighting back. They fight to live, fight to love; maybe this is what the book is about - the unrelenting will to survive, to fight despite the obstacle. Even in the middle of scenes that made me cringe, I saw Struggle stand bold and brave (especially through the character Skeet). These words feel tender yet tough; gritty yet gentle. And love exists here, askew and blemished, still, it exists. ...more It is so exciting when I read a book that I know will be with me forever. <+++>Salvage the Bones</+++> seemed at first to be in the same vein as Beans of Egypt, Maine , Bastard Out of Carolina , or The Book of Ruth . *Except* the overall affect is quite different. Instead of violence and desperation Jesmyn Ward gives us sweetness, beauty, and anticipation. Her writing is gorgeous (as one of the characters is racing through the woods his legs are described as looking like black ribbons) and the story is a time It is so exciting when I read a book that I know will be with me forever. <+++>Salvage the Bones</+++> seemed at first to be in the same vein as Beans of Egypt, Maine , Bastard Out of Carolina , or The Book of Ruth . *Except* the overall affect is quite different. Instead of violence and desperation Jesmyn Ward gives us sweetness, beauty, and anticipation. Her writing is gorgeous (as one of the characters is racing through the woods his legs are described as looking like black ribbons) and the story is a timeless one: familial love and allegiance and impending doom/disaster (in this case, the days leading up to Hurricane Katrina). The way that Esch and her brothers love and nurture one another gives the reader a sense of optimism. And the use of Greek mythology to examine Esch's experiences and relationships is absolute. ...more A gritty, tough story about a scrappy family living in poverty in the Gulf Coast of Mississippi in a twelve day period encompassing the landfall of Hurricane Katrina. The bleakness of their plight is juxtaposed with hauntingly beautiful prose that is almost poetry. I have a full-fledged author crush on Jesmyn Ward - this woman has supernatural powers. No one else writes like her! Be prepared for content that may make you cringe, including graphic accounts of dog-fighting. It is essential to this A gritty, tough story about a scrappy family living in poverty in the Gulf Coast of Mississippi in a twelve day period encompassing the landfall of Hurricane Katrina. The bleakness of their plight is juxtaposed with hauntingly beautiful prose that is almost poetry. I have a full-fledged author crush on Jesmyn Ward - this woman has supernatural powers. No one else writes like her! Be prepared for content that may make you cringe, including graphic accounts of dog-fighting. It is essential to this story, though, and if you can hang with it, you will be rewarded with a rich reading experience you won't soon forget. This was a 5 for me until the last few chapters. I thought the book lost steam at the end a little; I was expecting a powerful and gut wrenching conclusion, but it ended much more softly that I anticipated. A 4.5 for sure - if you haven't read this yet and are a fan of strong storytelling and writing so luscious it is almost a character, do pick this one up. Loved it. ...more Update: I did it. I finished it. I skimmed over some spots, but read it, I did. Right to the end. The ending that I am going to believe was a happy one. Yes. __________ This book seethes with brutality - implied, overt - and I turn each page with my heart in my throat, steeling myself for what is to come. Kids, dogs subject to abuse, trauma, neglect. Can't do it. It's beautifully written, even poetic in places, but I can't do it. Unfortunately, I felt like I was reading an extended undergrad creative writing piece, not an award winning author. The language is just so hard to get through-everything is a simile. I counted 3 uses of \"like\" to describe someone or something in one short paragraph. I had to slog my way through it, but I did find there were parts that intrigued me more than others and did want to read on, thus not a total dislike. 5/18/13 I just re-read this for a workshop I am teaching. Still love every raw bit of this book. Be prepared though...it's the kind of book that wrecks you. 3/19/12 I feel like I want to write a love letter to this author. This book just earned a spot on my list of all-time favorites. It is the story of fourteen year old Esch and her family who live in the Bois Sauvage in rural Mississippi. It takes place over the ten days leading up to Hurricane Katrina. Esch's mother is dead, her father is a dru 5/18/13 I just re-read this for a workshop I am teaching. Still love every raw bit of this book. Be prepared though...it's the kind of book that wrecks you. 3/19/12 I feel like I want to write a love letter to this author. This book just earned a spot on my list of all-time favorites. It is the story of fourteen year old Esch and her family who live in the Bois Sauvage in rural Mississippi. It takes place over the ten days leading up to Hurricane Katrina. Esch's mother is dead, her father is a drunk, and she is pregnant. They live on \"The Pit,\" a destitute and wild place, as almost feral children. I fell in love with Esch and her brothers, particularly Skeetah, who is driven nearly mad in his attempt to keep his beloved fighting pit-bull, China, alive after she gives birth to puppies. I found myself aching for each of them as they sought the simplest of things: attention, love, survival. I have never read something so beautiful about subject matter that is so difficult: dog-fighting, rural poverty, and teenage sex. It is also about family and loyalty, about survival and the cruelty of nature. The language is masterful; every single line of this novel sings with gorgeous brutality. I borrowed this from the library but intend to buy the hardcover to add to my own library. And you should too. ...more Brutal and savage story told almost entirely in the present tense. I found it both repelling and compelling. In my opinion it had little to do with Katrina (the hurricane) and more to do about surviving in a savage land. Most of the descriptive writing is eloquent, but at times it could have used better editing. Now I'm looking for something that does not use the word detritus once. I started the book not impressed and ended the book not impressed. I wasn't blown away by Ward's writing, which I did not find poetic or beautiful (Kundera is my standard for breathtaking prose). However, the story line is solid and Ward tries to give an acute portrayal of the twelve days leading up to Katrina for the Batiste family. There are many reasons this novel didn't work. For one, Ward fails in many key descriptions. While she can minutely detail the beauty of the woods, in other areas, s I started the book not impressed and ended the book not impressed. I wasn't blown away by Ward's writing, which I did not find poetic or beautiful (Kundera is my standard for breathtaking prose). However, the story line is solid and Ward tries to give an acute portrayal of the twelve days leading up to Katrina for the Batiste family. There are many reasons this novel didn't work. For one, Ward fails in many key descriptions. While she can minutely detail the beauty of the woods, in other areas, such as when the house is filling with water and the Batiste family needs to jump branch to branch to get to another house, her scenic words leave me confused and bewildered. How is that even possible? Why did Esch's dad push her? How were they not sucked away by the swirling currents but saved by a random tree (why is the tree not uprooted and itself lost in the whirlpool)? Secondly, while the book is set in the modern era (2005), Ward writes in such a way that is reminiscent of older, bygone times. She uses language and imagery I can see in Uncle Tom's Cabin but I find hard to believe exists in our world today--particularly because she never provides the context and background that, as a reader, I need in order to situate and conceptualize myself in the work. Lastly, the characters are so disappointing. As the main voice, Esch is a rather passive perspective. She sleeps with men she doesn't want to sleep with because it's easier to and she rarely shows her steely personality. It's incredibly hard for me to relate to Esch, despite her unrequited love, her coming of age, and her blossoming motherhood. She is a juxtaposition of contradictions: an incredibly smart, mature beyond her years tween reading Medea in her free time to a blundering, shifty, timid, and insecure child; I can't figure out who Esch is. This is in part to Ward's ill-advised use of Esch as the narrator--Esch is Ward's sole channel of expression but still has a character role to fulfill in the story. Randall and daddy Batiste aren't given much personality or focus and Junior is incredibly irritating, slightly twisted, and always lingering in the shadows. Either way, the only winner is Skeetah and China, and what Ward captures with these two is a wondrous love between man and dog that even Katrina can't destroy. ...more When the finalists for the National Book Award in Fiction were announced last month, I\u2019m embarrassed to admit that I was among those critics grumbling about the obscurity of some of the authors (Andrew Krivak?), even some of the publishers (Lookout Books?). Partly, I was annoyed that novels I\u2019ve adored this year (\u201cDoc,\u201d \u201cState of Wonder\u201d) didn\u2019t make the cut, and partly I was operating under the time-tested prejudice that books I\u2019ve read are always better than books I haven\u2019t read. But one of the When the finalists for the National Book Award in Fiction were announced last month, I\u2019m embarrassed to admit that I was among those critics grumbling about the obscurity of some of the authors (Andrew Krivak?), even some of the publishers (Lookout Books?). Partly, I was annoyed that novels I\u2019ve adored this year (\u201cDoc,\u201d \u201cState of Wonder\u201d) didn\u2019t make the cut, and partly I was operating under the time-tested prejudice that books I\u2019ve read are always better than books I haven\u2019t read. But one of the judges, a writer named Victor LaValle, whose critical opinions I admire, fired off a refreshingly assertive retort to people like me in Publishers Weekly. Denying that he and his fellow judges had ignored popular novels in hopes of making the public \u201ceat their spinach,\u201d he said, \u201cThese five books worked some special kind of magic on us. In the end, what\u2019s any good reader really hoping for? That spark. That spell.\u201d I\u2019m happy to eat my words. And my spinach. I\u2019ve just read another one of the so-called obscure finalists, \u201cSalvage the Bones,\u201d the second book from Alabama writer Jesmyn Ward, and it\u2019ll be a long time before its magic wears off. This trim, fiercely poetic novel takes place in the fictional town of Bois Sauvage, Miss., in the 10 days leading up to Hurricane Katrina. The way that approaching storm compresses this story about devoted siblings recalls Jayne Anne Phillips\u2019s \u201cLark and Termite,\u201d which in 2009 was also a finalist for the National Book Award. But Ward is working on a more elemental level \u2014 no mystical sympathies between long-separated people, no kaleidoscopic impressions of the mentally impaired. On one level, \u201cSalvage the Bones\u201d is a simple story about a poor black family that\u2019s about to be trashed by one of the most deadly hurricanes in U.S. history. What makes the novel so powerful, though, is the way Ward winds private passions with that menace gathering force out in the Gulf of Mexico. Without a hint of pretension, in the simple lives of these poor people living among chickens and abandoned cars, she evokes the tenacious love and desperation of classical tragedy. The force that pushes back against Katrina\u2019s inexorable winds is the voice of Ward\u2019s narrator, a 14-year-old girl named Esch, the only daughter among four siblings. Precocious, passionate and sensitive, she speaks almost entirely in phrases soaked in her family\u2019s raw land. Everything here is gritty, loamy and alive, as though the very soil were animated. Her brother\u2019s \u201cblood smells like wet hot earth after summer rain. .\u2009.\u2009. His scalp looks like fresh turned dirt.\u201d Her father\u2019s hands \u201care like gravel,\u201d while her own hand \u201cslides through his grip like a wet fish,\u201d and a handsome boy\u2019s \u201cmuscles jabbered like chickens.\u201d Admittedly, Ward can push so hard on this simile-obsessed style that her paragraphs risk sounding like a compost heap, but this isn\u2019t usually just metaphor for metaphor\u2019s sake. She conveys something fundamental about Esch\u2019s fluid state of mind: her figurative sense of the world in which all things correspond and connect. She and her brothers live in a ramshackle house steeped in grief since their mother died giving birth to her last child. As the story opens, Esch realizes she\u2019s pregnant by an older boy named Manny. \u201cHe was the sun,\u201d she swoons. A junior in high school with a thirst for books, Esch is devouring Edith Hamilton\u2019s \u201cMythology,\u201d vibrating in sympathy with Medea\u2019s boundless passion. \u201cWhen Medea falls in love with Jason, it grabs me by my throat. I can see her,\u201d Esch says, \u201cI know her.\u201d She laps up the ardor of that fiery myth and continually translates her own unrequited love into the tropes of those ancient stories. \u201cIn every one of the Greek\u2019s mythology tales,\u201d she notices, \u201cthere is this: a man chasing a woman, or a woman chasing a man. There is never a meeting in the middle.\u201d A palpable sense of desire and sorrow animates every page here (and how surprisingly Ward employs the classics). Without her mother, and with a father who moves clumsily along the edge of their lives, Esch is struggling to figure out what love is. Can it be the unyielding ache she feels for a boy who rejects her? Can it be the sense of care she feels for her elfin youngest sibling, who plays among the garbage and rusting trucks in the yard? Or is true love closer to what her older brother Skeetah feels for his pit bull, China? That relationship between a boy and his dog was the genesis of Ward\u2019s novel, and it remains the most striking aspect of the story. Skeetah\u2019s affection for China shimmers with that transcendent understanding you see sometimes between owners and their animals, and in this case, it\u2019s a bond fraught with contradictory allusions, from \u201cSounder\u201d to Michael Vick. Skeetah\u2019s entire life revolves around his beloved dog and the five fragile puppies she gives birth to at the opening of the novel. But he also pits China against other dogs in illegal fights that provide the book\u2019s bloodiest scenes. This may be Ward\u2019s most masterful move: her ability to capture the tenderness between a boy and his dog, while also rendering their joint enthusiasm for these vicious fights sickeningly believable. But to be honest, everything in \u201cSalvage the Bones\u201d sounds believable, even the fantastical climax that most of us only watched from a distance on TV. Ward survived Katrina with her family in De Lisle, Miss., and her description of the storm, the blind terror, the force of wind and water, is filled with visceral panic. What remains, what\u2019s salvaged, is something indomitable in these tough siblings, the strength of their love, the permanence of their devotion. Tea Obreht\u2019s \u201cThe Tiger\u2019s Wife\u201d is an odds-on favorite for the National Book Award, partly because it\u2019s the only well-known novel among the finalists, but \u201cSalvage the Bones\u201d has the aura of a classic about it. http://www.washingtonpost.com/enterta... ...more Wow, this was a rough book to read from page one. I understand that the author wanted to paint a vivid picture of poverty in the present day South, but I feel like she painted this picture in a bubble. At times it felt artificial, like she was trying too hard and as if the story was taking place in 1890. Maybe that was her point. But what I really didn\u2019t get was the whole point of the book at the end. This wasn\u2019t a story of struggle, determination, inspiration and hope. It was just a story that Wow, this was a rough book to read from page one. I understand that the author wanted to paint a vivid picture of poverty in the present day South, but I feel like she painted this picture in a bubble. At times it felt artificial, like she was trying too hard and as if the story was taking place in 1890. Maybe that was her point. But what I really didn\u2019t get was the whole point of the book at the end. This wasn\u2019t a story of struggle, determination, inspiration and hope. It was just a story that read like a colorful newspaper account of an event \u2013 with lots of added cuss words and sex. There was absolutely no purpose to it at the end. I didn\u2019t feel more connected to the characters after reading it. I honestly felt nothing for them because I felt like they felt nothing for themselves. This book was simply graphic, vulgar and awful in most parts. It was about people feeling and living like animals and treating animals better than humans. Big Henry was the only character with any tiny glimpse of humanity, and it just wasn\u2019t enough in a story where characters value pit bulls eating each others faces off as their main purpose in life. This could have been a story of change and hope set during a disaster, but it\u2019s not and it just left me hopeless, disgusted, sick to my stomach, and wishing I never read it. ...more There are a few \"too recent\" things that have happened in our country's history that I find difficult to read about yet, primarily because everyone jumped on the bandwagon of wanting to write about them the minute they happened and it was too much for me because I had my own feels about what had happened. Those two things are 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina. This book is about Hurricane Katrina. Except it's not entirely about that. It's a big part of the story, and it refuses to be ignored, but it's no There are a few \"too recent\" things that have happened in our country's history that I find difficult to read about yet, primarily because everyone jumped on the bandwagon of wanting to write about them the minute they happened and it was too much for me because I had my own feels about what had happened. Those two things are 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina. This book is about Hurricane Katrina. Except it's not entirely about that. It's a big part of the story, and it refuses to be ignored, but it's not the biggest thing (well, not the only thing happening). The unfortunate part is that the other things that are happening in this book are almost as uncomfortable to read about. Esch is a fourteen-year-old girl living in Mississippi with her three brothers and their father, and a pit bull who has just given birth to a pile of puppies. Esch's story is sad and heartbreaking, having lost her mother a few years prior, and one that is familiar to a lot of young people who find themselves in difficult positions. I'm going to go ahead and put this next bunch behind a spoiler tag just to avoid ruining anything for anyone who may want to read the book. I realized that I can't really discuss my likes and dislikes of this book without spelling out exactly what happens since it's the author's treatment and execution of what happens that I either like or dislike. (view spoiler) [This is not an easy book to read. As I already stated, the background theme of Hurricane Katrina is tough for me to read about, and more so knowing the author lived through it herself, so she drew from personal experience when writing this book. Unfortunately, what this felt like was too much Man Vs. Nature, like the way the taught conflict to us in junior high English classes when we were learning how to write short stories. They broke it down for us: Man vs. Man Man vs. Nature Man vs. Society Man vs. Self What I had difficulty with was that I felt Ward hit on each of those conflicts specifically because that's how we were trained to write about conflict. In other words, it smelled a little too much like Creative Writing Workshop - not a bad thing in and of itself, but sometimes in literature it comes across as too obvious and therefore distracting. Man vs. Man : Esch against Manny when she confronts him about her pregnancy; Skeetah against Rico at the basketball game when they get in a brawl; Skeetah against their father when it comes to the dogs; etc. etc. Man vs. Nature : Do I need to be specific? It was the whole reason Hurricane Katrina was in the story. But also everything involving Skeetah and China (and Kilo against China, and China against the puppies); etc. etc. Man vs. Society : Esch's pregnancy; the break-in; etc. etc. Man vs. Self : Well, this is a coming-of-age novel, so it's all there... it's told from Esch's perspective, so we see all of her internal struggles - we also see everyone else's struggles through her eyes, so there's a whole lot of Man vs. Selfing going on. Too much conflict that felt it was meant to be very much \"Look! Conflict! In your face!\" Not much subtlety here. Another issue I had was with the first person narrative overall. This is Esch's story, and remember, she's a 14-year-old girl. She has insight into the minds and beliefs of everyone around her in a way that most 14-year-old girls do not have. She is a relatively well-educated teenager - she is reading Edith Hamilton's Mythology throughout and making connections from the stories in the book to her own life, so she's not an idiot by any stretch of the imagination. But her insights speak for the characters way more than is probably good for the story; she's meant to be an omniscient narrator (another writing term!), but it's not believable because of her age. Aside from that (because maybe I'm being way too harsh on that), there's a bit where one of her brother's confronts Manny for \"dogging\" on his sister. Esch is nowhere near the conversation, and yet we're told about the conversation as if Esch was there and able to include it in her narrative. It was a sloppy shift in perspective that made the sequence not at all believable for me. (hide spoiler) ] In addition to what I've hidden in the spoiler tag, a major distraction throughout the story was the amount of similes and metaphors. Oh, lord. And not even particularly good ones. I would say there were at least one on every page, usually more than one on every page. It was too much. It was jarring. All this being said, I also found the story interesting enough to keep reading, even though I wanted to skip all the parts about the animals because it was too much too much safe word too much for my sensitive nature. Luckily the other issues I had with some of the writing distracted me enough from the treatment of the animals that I was able to sort of breeze through those sections without vomiting all over myself from anxiety. I think this is an important book, and certainly details the collective life of one family living in Mississippi during 2005. I just wish the rest of it wasn't so heavy-handed and intentional. ...more Ok. I have to admit it. I felt an abundance of awe while reading Salvage the Bones by Jesmyn Ward. The sort of awe-inspiring admiration an avid reader\u2019s experience, while reading a novel whose lyrical prose is so breathtaking, that you know you\u2019ve just discovered your new favorite author. Ward has received numerous notable attentions for this novel, including the National Book Award for fiction. After reading it, I can undoubtedly understand the reason the accolades were given. The novel begins Ok. I have to admit it. I felt an abundance of awe while reading Salvage the Bones by Jesmyn Ward. The sort of awe-inspiring admiration an avid reader\u2019s experience, while reading a novel whose lyrical prose is so breathtaking, that you know you\u2019ve just discovered your new favorite author. Ward has received numerous notable attentions for this novel, including the National Book Award for fiction. After reading it, I can undoubtedly understand the reason the accolades were given. The novel begins on a humid Mississippi Summer in 2005. Readers are introduced to the Batiste family eleven days before Hurricane Katrina makes her violent mark upon the coastal town of Bois Sauvage, MS. The story is told in first person narrative by the main character Esch, a coy fourteen year old girl, who seems to waddle in despair over the failure of an idolized crush and holds an immense amount of uncertainty of her self-worth. Esch is the sole feminine presence in the household, which consists of her father and three brothers. Esch\u2019s mother, Rose, had an untimely death years before, resulting from the complicated birth of Junior, the youngest member of the Batiste family. With no female influences present, Esch has taken on the role of the mother of the house, only to discover that the role may soon become a permanent responsibility in her life. Although the novel spans twelve days and leads up to the climatic point of when the storm lands, Ward demonstrates a remarkable ability at creating relatable characters. Esch is the main character; however her three brothers and fathers are also notable figures in the book. The Batiste family resides in a rural, poverty stricken area in the coastal regions of Mississippi. Randall is the oldest sibling in the family, and the most athletic, with his keen and precise basketball skills. He is presented as the practical figure in the family, especially when his drunken father, Claude, is uselessly milling around their yard searching for junk and scraps. This spacious area of land is known as the Pit. Jason, also referred to as Skeetah, is the second oldest and is described as an incredibly fearless and unapologetically stubborn young man. He also shares a seemingly passionate love affair with China, a female pitbull, doused in a pristine white coat and regarded as a vicious dog fighter within the community. The relationship between Skeetah and China borders the union between man and wife. Lastly, there is Junior, the youngest at seven years old, and is described as the typical energetic boy, whose curiosity of the world, allots him with mischievous adventure. Salvage the Bones is a brilliant novel that showcases the unconditional love of family, the enduring support of community, and the unconventional love that can be forged between man and animal. The narrative delves into the harsh realities of poverty, while illustrating the power of survival. With each turn of the page, Ward not only offers a memorable story, however, readers are engorged in such melodic lyrical expositions, that it reads like poetry. I highly recommend this book to others. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Salvage the Bones follows the Batiste family through 12 days in August of 2005 as they prepare to ride out what starts as a tropical depression, but ends up turning into Hurricane Katrina. As the impoverished family attempts to scrape together enough scrap wood to board the house and a stockpile of food and water to last them a few days, they are also forced to come to terms with their past, present and future. The past is a m Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Salvage the Bones follows the Batiste family through 12 days in August of 2005 as they prepare to ride out what starts as a tropical depression, but ends up turning into Hurricane Katrina. As the impoverished family attempts to scrape together enough scrap wood to board the house and a stockpile of food and water to last them a few days, they are also forced to come to terms with their past, present and future. The past is a mother who died giving birth to Junior, the youngest sibling, leaving the family to be raised by an alcoholic father. The present is a litter of puppies born by Skeetah\u2019s prize fighting pit bull who could sell for enough money to change their lives for a bit, but who are instead dying one by one. The future is 14-year old Esch\u2019s baby that she hasn\u2019t been brave enough to tell anyone about. One of the most beautifully written books I\u2019ve read all year and I\u2019m finding it so hard to review. This is a book that is about nothing, yet about everything at the same time. I found myself completely hypnotized by the prose, waiting for the crescendo of Hurricane Katrina. Although this book isn\u2019t free of problems, Jesmyn Ward is a master of language and honest, believable, bleak, brutal, gritty, characters. A very \"book clubby\" book that will spark great conversation over a glass (or three) of vino. ...more Salvage the Bones is a Hurricane Katrina story that won the 2011 National Book Award for Fiction. That's all I knew when I requested a copy from my local library and I figured I couldn't go wrong with reading this book. Sigh. I did. I wanted to like it. It had all of the right ingredients for a powerful novel. Characters were conflicted with themselves, each other, and nature. There was room for characters to develop and change throughout the story. The backdrop was one of the worst disasters Am Salvage the Bones is a Hurricane Katrina story that won the 2011 National Book Award for Fiction. That's all I knew when I requested a copy from my local library and I figured I couldn't go wrong with reading this book. Sigh. I did. I wanted to like it. It had all of the right ingredients for a powerful novel. Characters were conflicted with themselves, each other, and nature. There was room for characters to develop and change throughout the story. The backdrop was one of the worst disasters America has ever seen. Author Jesmyn Ward has a distinct narrative voice that can be powerful and beautiful at the same time. But, the story just didn't work for me. One reason Salvage the Bones didn't work for me as a reader is that I didn't know what I was getting myself into. I tend to take the 'know as little as possible' approach to books because I want to be surprised by the story. As I mentioned, all I knew before opening up the book was that it was a Hurricane Katrina story that won this year's National Book Award for fiction. I wasn't expecting to start the book with a dog birthing her first litter of puppies nor was I expecting the emotional and physical violence inflicted by something other than Hurricane Katrina. Usually my approach to books works for me, but this is one instance that knowing more would have been better. If I was aware of what I was getting into, I may have enjoyed it more. The other reasons why this book didn't appeal to me stem from the narrative. As powerful and beautiful as Ward's voice is, it barely evoked any emotion in me. This was disturbing. Shouldn't I care that a fourteen year old girl is pregnant and that she views sex as something to give in and have because it's easier than fighting the guys off? Shouldn't I care that four children lost their mother after giving birth to the youngest sibling and that their father is an absentee dad with a drinking problem? Shouldn't I care that there isn't enough food in the house or that they don't have any money to buy food in preparation for the hurricane? I should have cared, but I couldn't bring myself to because it didn't seem like any of these characters cared. The only person trying to make his situation better was Randall, a high school basketball player working toward a scholarship to a basketball camp where college scouts could see him play. When his family lost that opportunity for him, no one really seemed to care. This family lives at a level of poverty that I can't even begin to fathom. Maybe they had given up, resigned themselves to their fate. That was the impression I got and it doesn't make for good reading. Hurricane Katrina's role in the narrative isn't what I expected. Most of the book is spent getting ready for the hurricane to make landfall. Very little focuses on the wrath she brings and just what this family does to survive. The family finally rallied together and fights back, fights for their lives, and only a handful of pages were dedicated to this harrowing and life changing chain of events. Then, the aftermath of the hurricane is described in a very cold way. It seemed like a lot of 'telling' rather than showing the reader how the landscape and inhabitants of this Mississippi town were forever scarred by the hurricane. Again, very few pages were dedicated to detailing the devastation. These were the aspects of the story that drew me to the book. Finally, the parallels fourteen year old Esch draws between herself and 1) her brother's dog, China, and 2) Medea seemed a bit too far fetched. Maybe these parallels were meant to be that way so readers could see Esch was still a child and immature even though she carried her own child. Or maybe Esch making these connections between herself and others is the author's way of showing readers that there is more to Esch than what we see and that she has actually has hope for the future. I just don't know. I think this is one of those books that readers will love or hate; there won't be much middle ground. These books generate heated debates and intense book discussions, reminding me why I love reading and reviewing books. Even though I give Salvage the Bones one star out of five, I'm sure there are others out there who would give it a five star rating and then some. That's the beauty of books. Each reader reads a book just a bit differently because of who they are, what they've experienced, and where they are in their lives. This book may not work for me now, but I could reread this book five years from now and love it. This review originally appeared on Feeding My Book Addiction: http://feedingmybookaddiction.blogspo... ...more Salvage the Bones has been heralded as a testament to the endurance of those of have faced Katrina. Although Katrina does make an appearance at the end of this book, it is more a story about family: Esch, the only girl among men who turns to her mythology books and her mother\u2019s memory for guidance, Randall, eldest brother who hopes his athletic prowess will be his ticket to college Skeetah, full of temerity; whole-heartedly devoted to his pit bull, China And Junior, the son who will never know his Salvage the Bones has been heralded as a testament to the endurance of those of have faced Katrina. Although Katrina does make an appearance at the end of this book, it is more a story about family: Esch, the only girl among men who turns to her mythology books and her mother\u2019s memory for guidance, Randall, eldest brother who hopes his athletic prowess will be his ticket to college Skeetah, full of temerity; whole-heartedly devoted to his pit bull, China And Junior, the son who will never know his mother The Batiste family has known loss and struggle. Living in the poor rural town of Bois Sauvage, motherless children with an alcoholic father, the brood may seem as restless as the untamed wood they call their home. But they are moored in the strength they provide for each other. It is this sense of family that makes Salvage the Bones such an evocative story. In this award winning piece, Jesmyn Ward weaves imagery, foreshadowing and metaphor to deliver a resounding piece. \u201cHer chariot was a storm so great and black the Greeks would say it was harnessed to dragons. She was the murderous mother who cut us to the bone but left us alive, left us naked and bewildered as wrinkled newborn babies, as blind puppies, as sun-starved newly hatched baby snakes. She left us a dark Gulf and salt-burned land. She left us to learn to crawl. She left us to salvage.\u201d ...more A gritty, honest (I believe) soul searing book that engrossed me and made me very angry. America need not have people living in such desperate poverty. I am angry at the 'system', at the politicians who won't do anything to change the system, and at myself and others who feel powerless to make the necessary changes. Too many of us are greedy, self centered, and wear blinders. Thank you to Jesmyn Ward for opening my eyes and my heart wider. \"We hid it. I learned how to cry so that almost no tears leaked out of my eyes, so that I swallowed the hot salty water of them and felt them running down my throat.\" Beautiful writing. Brutal story. Reading a distinct artistic voice remains one my great pleasures. Even if I know ahead of time that the writer's voice and acclaim precedes him/her the surprise of the journey through the novel stays with me for a long time. Steinbeck's The Winter of Our Discontent grabbed me like that--so did Kerouac's On the Road--along with McCullers' The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, Rand's Atlas Shrugged; Robinson's Housekeeping; Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day; de Saint-Exup\u00e9ry's The Little Prince...and so o Read\u00ading a dis\u00adtinct artis\u00adtic voice remains one my great pleasures. Even if I know ahead of time that the writer's voice and acclaim pre\u00adcedes him/her the sur\u00adprise of the jour\u00adney through the novel stays with me for a long time. Stein\u00adbeck's The Win\u00adter of Our Dis\u00adcon\u00adtent grabbed me like that--so did Ker\u00adouac's On the Road--along with McCullers' The Heart is a Lone\u00adly Hunter, Rand's Atlas Shrugged; Robin\u00adson's House\u00adkeep\u00ading; Ishig\u00aduro's The Remains of the Day; de Saint-Exup\u00e9ry's The Lit\u00adtle Prince...and so on. This morn\u00ading I read Jes\u00admyn Ward's Sal\u00advage the Bones in one sitting--just under five hours. Ward is an artist--make no bones about it. The novel builds in sub\u00adtle inten\u00adsi\u00adty and hits its stride just past the halfway mark--I phys\u00adi\u00adcal\u00adly felt the anx\u00adi\u00adety and squirmed with impa\u00adtience to read through the next page. I had to slow myself down, how\u00adev\u00ader, so that I did not miss the joy of her craft beyond the story. The lay\u00ader\u00ading of lan\u00adguage is unlike any\u00adthing I've read recent\u00adly. The first thing I want to share is that this is a love story. The lay\u00aders of love, some frayed, some bro\u00adken, some deep, just dom\u00adi\u00adnates the sub\u00adtext of each page--from the moth\u00ader's final words, to the father never chang\u00ading the bed\u00adroom, to the pho\u00adtographs dad kept, to way Skeet attends to China (the pit\u00adbull), to what the pro\u00adtag\u00ado\u00adnist craves from Manny, to what Manny will never give her, to the pro\u00adtag\u00ado\u00adnist's com\u00ading to grips with what is grow\u00ading inside of her, the love of the father for his chil\u00addren, to the love extend\u00aded by neigh\u00adbors after Hur\u00adri\u00adcane Kat\u00adri\u00adna hits, to final images and moments in novel when Big Henry extends his love for the unborn child, to Skeet sit\u00adting and watch\u00ading and waiting... This is a bril\u00adliant study and jour\u00adney of love. And sadly, I will not put it in my 8th grade class\u00adroom because of the mature nature of some of the scenes. I don't hold it against the book or author by any means, and per\u00adhaps I shouldn't be so cau\u00adtious with a beau\u00adti\u00adful book, but it's just the world we live in now, which is a shame...but that is anoth\u00ader story. How\u00adev\u00ader, this does not in any\u00adway reflect on the book. I make the point of it here to illus\u00adtrate the power between these pages. This novel is a shared experience--I defy you to read it and put it and down and pass it off and out of your memory. You can't do it. The raw beau\u00adty Ward etch\u00ades into the read\u00ader can be traced to her com\u00admand of nuance with\u00adin the sever\u00adi\u00adty of the sub\u00adject mat\u00adter. My per\u00adson\u00adal loathing and dis\u00adcom\u00adfort for dog fight\u00ading should have trig\u00adgered my hands to clap the book closed. Hey, I can't even watch Mar\u00adley and Me. How\u00adev\u00ader, I didn't close the book until I read through to the final page. A strong case can be made that this story belongs to the main pit bull in the story, China. To a cer\u00adtain degree, this is her story. Used as a pawn on the sur\u00adface, the read\u00ader slow\u00adly dis\u00adcov\u00aders that the money China earns from birthing pups because she is a leg\u00adendary fight\u00ader will go to this fam\u00adi\u00adly (it's what they do--it is a part of the cul\u00adture) bare\u00adly mak\u00ading it on Ramen noo\u00addles and eggs found around their property. Addi\u00adtion\u00adal\u00adly, and most rel\u00ade\u00advant, China's owner loves her and she loves him back--I'm con\u00advinced of it. It is hard to imag\u00adine mak\u00ading a main char\u00adac\u00adter a dog who doesn't speak--so, Ward gives us Esche, the only sig\u00adnif\u00adi\u00adcant female in the story who isn't killed off. We live the story through Esche and while she has the arc and she expe\u00adri\u00adences change and the story runs through her, I have to argue that much of the same can be said about China. China's jour\u00adney, in many ways, mir\u00adrors Esche's. I'm a new and enor\u00admous fan of Ward and Sal\u00advage the Bones. Through some raw and grit\u00adty sub\u00adject mat\u00adter she grabbed my bones and wrung them out for just over four straight hours until I was left with noth\u00ading but empa\u00adthy. And won\u00adder. In my heart I know what hap\u00adpened to China. And it is just dev\u00adas\u00adtat\u00ading to walk away from the final page of the book...because I also know I'm going to carry it with me for a long time. ...more i had a really tough time getting into this book. maybe it's because i was reading it in between doing other things (i generally prefer to block out a big chunk of time so i can really get into a story--especially with fiction). maybe it's just because it wasn't really that engaging. it's the story of a family living in mississippi countryside, in the week & a half before hurricane katrina hits. the story is narrated by esch, age fifteen & the only girl among the four siblings. randall, i had a really tough time getting into this book. maybe it's because i was reading it in between doing other things (i generally prefer to block out a big chunk of time so i can really get into a story--especially with fiction). maybe it's just because it wasn't really that engaging. it's the story of a family living in mississippi countryside, in the week & a half before hurricane katrina hits. the story is narrated by esch, age fifteen & the only girl among the four siblings. randall, one year older, is a basketball prodigy hoping to get a scholarship to basketball camp & get scouted by college recruiters. skeetah is one older than him & is obsessed with his white pitbull, china, who has just had puppies. skeetah hopes to sell the puppies when they're old enough to send randall to basketball camp is he doesn't get the scholarship. he also enters china into dog fights. junior is the baby of the family at seven. the kids' mother died giving birth to him. their father is around, but he's an alcoholic & the kids mainly do what they can to parent themselves. the book reviews & descriptions make a big fuss over how esch is pregnant. which she is, & it's definitely part of the story, but probably 85% of the book consists of esch observing skeetah's relationship with china. seriously. it's weird to me that there is almost nothing about this...can you even really call it a plotline when it's almost the entire story? the entire book is just skeetah obsessing over the puppies, skeetah panicking when one of the puppies seems sick, skeetah recruiting esch to help him break into the neighbors' barn to steal some deworming medication, skeetah getting into a fight with another dog fighter who thinks he is entitled to one of china's puppies, skeetah fighting china mere days after she gives birth in order to retain his claim to the puppies, skeetah busting his ass beyond belief to try to save china & the puppies during the hurricane. i guess maybe there was supposed to be some metaphor or allegory there, skeetah loving china & being an excellent surrogate father to her puppies while esch comes to terms with being pregnant & is summarily rejected by the baby's father, who is in a serious relationship with another woman. maybe? but if that's what ward was going for, it was awfully heavy-handed. almost as heavy-handed as esch's periodic ruminations on the story of medea. i'll just leave it at that. maybe this was hard for me to get into just because i am not a dog person? i am not kidding when i say that the dog was the central focus of nearly the entire book! i was really bored until we got to the hurricane scenes, which were horrifying. the writing was not great--i had trouble visualizing exactly what the author was describing, especially the sequence in which the family makes for higher ground to escape rising floodwaters. it was all very poetic & everything, but it wasn't really very descriptive. but the poetry of the language did succeed in creating an atmosphere of terror. because the book ends the day after the hurricane, the reader has no way of knowing how things transpired for this family after the storm. in a better book, i think i would have felt more curious. i am kind of idly curious about how esch does with her baby, especially because the author really ladled on the idea that with all her brothers & all her brothers' friends, the baby will not be hurting for father figures (which kind of ignores the fact that people do not often maintain an interest in children for the entire 18 years it takes to raise them to adulthood even when they are their own children, let alone when they belong to some neighbor girl). but that's it. it's not a bad book. but it's not a great book. i honestly believe, absurd as this sounds, that you'll enjoy this book a lot more if you like dogs (& if you can make your peace with the dog fighting scenes). i gave it an extra star for the storm scenes. ...more Novelists like Jesmyn Ward don't come along very often. Only truly special writers can slip readers beneath the skin of a character, make them feel as if they are experiencing the events happening on page first hand. Reading Salvage the Bones one is drawn into the oppressive summer heat of Louisiana; aches with helpless desire; is burdened by a stifling sense of loss; vicariously goes through youthful yearning to be loved, even if only as much as a treasured pet. Prior to the arrival of Hurrican Novelists like Jesmyn Ward don't come along very often. Only truly special writers can slip readers beneath the skin of a character, make them feel as if they are experiencing the events happening on page first hand. Reading Salvage the Bones one is drawn into the oppressive summer heat of Louisiana; aches with helpless desire; is burdened by a stifling sense of loss; vicariously goes through youthful yearning to be loved, even if only as much as a treasured pet. Prior to the arrival of Hurricane Katrina, the pace of the narrative is slow and steady. We wait for the inevitable devastation to arrive, knowing far more about what is to come than the family we're observing up close. A motherless girl lets the local boys take what they please from her until she meets one that she wants something back from. She is a lone woman in a world of men, and it is through her eyes that we pass idle time waiting, watching, remembering, wishing for what is plain will not be, settling for whatever she is able to grab hold of. This girl does not get placed on a pedestal like her brother's prized dog, but like China she is able to nurture when called upon, ready to fight tooth and nail for survival when necessary. Read this book. Then join me in the wait for Jesmyn Ward's next one. ...more This was a difficult book for me to read. It is bleak, so very bleak, and one of the story threads is dog-fighting, which meant I had to skip more than a few pages (although I did read enough to get the gist of what was going on). That being said, I think the book probably presents a very accurate portrayal of life for this family in that part of Louisiana and, given the culture, the dog-fighting aspect was probably accurate and necessary, as well. The writing is beautiful in an unusual and unex This was a difficult book for me to read. It is bleak, so very bleak, and one of the story threads is dog-fighting, which meant I had to skip more than a few pages (although I did read enough to get the gist of what was going on). That being said, I think the book probably presents a very accurate portrayal of life for this family in that part of Louisiana and, given the culture, the dog-fighting aspect was probably accurate and necessary, as well. The writing is beautiful in an unusual and unexpected way - it literally sweeps you along like the storm that also is a main part of the story. I really felt as though I knew the characters, both the ones I liked and the ones I didn't. The last part of the book - when Hurricane Katrina hits - is spellbinding and kept me on the edge of my seat with the vastness of its descriptions. And, in the end, the strength of relationships - family and community - is what shines through. I waver between four and five stars - I really would like to give it 4.75!!! ...more I finished this one last night, and I'm still digesting it, most likely will be for some time. This is a beautiful, brutal, heartbreaking portrait of rural, poverty-stricken Mississippi during the time leading up to, during, and following Hurricane Katrina. The hurricane itself is in the background for most of the book, which is really how she was until she came ashore with full force and destroyed the Mississippi gulf coast. The book is more about family, love, and loss, with a young 14-year-ol I finished this one last night, and I'm still digesting it, most likely will be for some time. This is a beautiful, brutal, heartbreaking portrait of rural, poverty-stricken Mississippi during the time leading up to, during, and following Hurricane Katrina. The hurricane itself is in the background for most of the book, which is really how she was until she came ashore with full force and destroyed the Mississippi gulf coast. The book is more about family, love, and loss, with a young 14-year-old pregnant girl at the center. It's not an easy read, with punches to the gut coming all too frequently, but it's beautiful and not to be missed. ...more I don't read slasher books. I don't read dogfighting books. I don't read books featuring lots of animal/animal violence or human/animal violence. Made it past page 100 and realized it would only get worse, not better. There are four of them: Junior, age seven; Esch, fifteen; Skeetah, sixteen; and Randall, seventeen. Their Mama died seven years ago when Junior was born. The Daddy is around but has a problem with alcohol and anger. They have a dog: a pit bull named China, a dog trained for fighting. She gave birth to five puppies in the very first chapter. Early on we also learn that fifteen year old Esch began having sex at the age of twelve and has had quite a number of local partners in the three years since There are four of them: Junior, age seven; Esch, fifteen; Skeetah, sixteen; and Randall, seventeen. Their Mama died seven years ago when Junior was born. The Daddy is around but has a problem with alcohol and anger. They have a dog: a pit bull named China, a dog trained for fighting. She gave birth to five puppies in the very first chapter. Early on we also learn that fifteen year old Esch began having sex at the age of twelve and has had quite a number of local partners in the three years since then. Condoms were not quite enough protection and Esch is pregnant. Since Esch is the narrator, the pregnancy is covered closely. In the past couple of months Esch has limited herself sexually to Manny so she figures he is the daddy. She\u2019d like him to love her or at least notice her more. But he has another woman. She doesn\u2019t tell anyone she is pregnant, not even saying it out loud to herself. The story takes place over twelve days including Hurricane Katrina but Esch does recall earlier events in the life of the family. The book can be seen as small stories that are put together to make the whole. At the end of chapter four there is the escape and chase ending with the dog fight. When that scene concludes, you are just as out of breathe as the characters on the page. Then there is the confrontation between Skeetah and Daddy about getting rotting plywood to board up the house in preparation for the coming hurricane. If you know the stories of the Greek gods, this book has a bonus for you. References to myths, gods and goddesses occur regularly: \u201cHe is the Patroclus to Randall\u2019s Achilles tonight.\u201d I don\u2019t know the myths or the gods. I could look them up and figure out what the references mean but then I would never finish the book! But if you know them, it undoubtedly adds to the reading. Imagine the Greek myths in a story about ramshackle country people with a ramshackle home place. Salvage the Bones has some terrific descriptive writing about people and places. Vivid little bits about the deteriorating homestead are sprinkled throughout. \u201cOur house is the color of rust, nearly invisible under the oaks and behind the rubbish, lopsided. The cement bricks it sits on are the color of the sand.\u201d If I can just relax, focus and let the words come to me, it is a moving experience. The characters can be brutal, physically and emotionally. Here is Manny attacking Esch in the women\u2019s bathroom at a high school basketball game: The bathroom is dark, darker even than the gym, and it is small\u2026Been thinking about you says Manny, and then he has pushed me back into the stall . . . he will look at me . . . He snorts, puts his head down into my shoulder. I pull hard, and my hands slide along his face. I grab again. . . . He will look at me. . . . He grunts, grabbing at my sweaty sides, his eyes closed. His lashes are longer than those of any girl I know. Beautiful. The thumbs of his long hands press into my stomach, so he can pull again, but then they stutter. He presses hard again: my belly pushes back. He looks down and back up, eye to eye, all I have wanted, here. He is looking. He is seeing me, and his hands are coming around to feel the honeydew curve, the swell that is more than swell, the fat that is not fat, the budding baby, and his eyes are so black they are all black, and they are a night without stars. All I have ever wanted. He knows. \u201cFuck!\u201d Manny yells, and he is throwing me up and off of him. I hit the door behind me, the rough cat tongue of his face gone . . . Dog fighting is a rural, small town sport. Men have their pit bulls and get together to cheer on the blood sport. Usually they are too fond of the dogs to let them fight to the death. The book includes a dog fighting episode that gives you a taste of the \u201csport\u201d and how the dogs can be the substitute acting out the antagonisms between men. The juxtaposition of the fierce dog vs. dog and the tender feelings between owner and dog are a part of the complexity of the story. The idea of dog fighting is abhorrent to me and I found myself conflicted about the dog China. This book does \u201cintense\u201d so well. The last example is the family going though the raging storm that was Katrina along the Mississippi coast. But for all the intensity, I thought that the ending was rather blah and sentimental. Maybe it was just a little too hopeful and neat. It didn\u2019t fit the book for me. The writing is excellent and the story is enveloping. You have to be willing to be battered by the intensity and to live with the experience of being a pregnant teenager. This is not an easy book. It honestly earns four stars. But for the ending, I would call it five. ...more By far the most difficult book to trudge through that I've read this year, or in recent history for that matter. Over-stylized + over-aestheticized to the point of being nearly unreadable. A deft reader can sense, from the first page, just how much Ward wants to dazzle with her language\u2014and there are certainly moments where she does\u2014but it feels as if the only motivation and purpose of Salvage the Bones is to demonstrate that Jesmyn Ward can write sentences. She never uses one simile when she ca By far the most difficult book to trudge through that I've read this year, or in recent history for that matter. Over-stylized + over-aestheticized to the point of being nearly unreadable. A deft reader can sense, from the first page, just how much Ward wants to dazzle with her language\u2014and there are certainly moments where she does\u2014but it feels as if the only motivation and purpose of Salvage the Bones is to demonstrate that Jesmyn Ward can write sentences. She never uses one simile when she can use three. She mixes three, four, five metaphors in one paragraph. I'm really amazed that nobody at Bloomsbury's editorial department objected to a manuscript that is, on a sentence level, replete with overwrought language and trying so desperately to impress. As far as the plot itself goes, not very much happens. It's anticipating Hurricane Katrina for ten chapters\u2014chapters that make such meaningless activities as stealing from the neighbors a twenty-page exercise\u2014and then the storm and its aftermath in the final 30 pages. And I wish I could say what Ward lacked in control and restraint in her language she made up for elsewhere, but it isn't so. For example: the heavy-handedness of the juxtaposition between China's recent birth and Esch's recent pregnancy is a drum that Ward never tires of banging; indeed she's banging it in the last sentence. What frustrates me most\u2014the issue of the problematic, self-satisfied, showboating language notwithstanding\u2014is the many missed narrative opportunities in Salvage. The novel has within it the possibility to occasion a sincere and thoughtful look at the root and reason of the Mississippi Gulf Coast's systemic poverty, especially in the face of a natural disaster like Katrina that only served to magnify the area's indigence. I\u2019m not sure a better premise exists in which to interrogate and analyze the economic condition of a place whose culture is so imbued with financial strife. And though Ward illustrates the poverty faced by Esch and her family anecdotally throughout the novel over and over again, I never felt she fully communicated that what Hurricane Katrina, as it neared closer with every chapter, threatened to destroy was a community already destroyed, dismantled, disenfranchised, and disenchanted by pre-existing conditions having nothing to do with natural disaster. In order for Ward to fully achieve her intention of educating those who marginalized the communities she\u2019s interested in\u2014communities that are unequivocally shaped and determined by that marginalization, so much so that it\u2019s impossible and incomplete to leave out this disenfranchisement in any discussion of the region\u2014she needed to have included some context for it, rather than hoping the illustrations of poverty\u2014the pauper fantasia\u2014would somehow impart this lesson on its own. ...more This is a prose novel written by a poet. The language is beautiful and the pacing is perfect. It was difficult to put this one down at night, and sometimes I didn't. I wish it was longer. I hated to come to the last page and leave this family. I have read in some places that it is considered a Hurricane Katrina novel; however, I think that would be an incorrect characterization of the book. It actually is about a poor family in Mississippi and how they live, and how they deal with the adversity This is a prose novel written by a poet. The language is beautiful and the pacing is perfect. It was difficult to put this one down at night, and sometimes I didn't. I wish it was longer. I hated to come to the last page and leave this family. I have read in some places that it is considered a Hurricane Katrina novel; however, I think that would be an incorrect characterization of the book. It actually is about a poor family in Mississippi and how they live, and how they deal with the adversity and problems of life without money or a mother. The surviving parent is a neglectful alcoholic father. The children are raising themselves as a result, and the way they handle their problems fall somewhat short of success. They are not doing the best they can, but they are surviving each day despite the still fresh hurt of the mother's death in childbirth several years previously. They each turn to things which best get them through their days and distract them from emotional pain. At the same time, each recognizes the value of being part of a family and inconsistently have each other's back. When Katrina does hit, the author's talent shows the force of the hurricane easily with a poet's facility. This book is wonderful to read. ...more I really did not like this book. It only got 2 stars instead of 1 because I ultimately appreciated the end part when Hurricane Katrina finally hit. Finally! I thought this whole book was about the hurricane, but only the end part was. Which would have been fine, if the rest of the plot had been remotely interesting. But I just found it all very tedious. I only finished it because it was such a quick read, and I kept waiting for the storm to hit. It's not that the author is not a good writer, but I really did not like this book. It only got 2 stars instead of 1 because I ultimately appreciated the end part when Hurricane Katrina finally hit. Finally! I thought this whole book was about the hurricane, but only the end part was. Which would have been fine, if the rest of the plot had been remotely interesting. But I just found it all very tedious. I only finished it because it was such a quick read, and I kept waiting for the storm to hit. It's not that the author is not a good writer, but I just personally really disliked the writing style. Holy metaphor, Batman! She could not refrain from using overwrought, overly-flowery metaphors and similes constantly. If they had edited out all her metaphors and similes, it would have been a 50-page (and much better) book. It felt like an overexcited high school creative writing student just learned about metaphors and similes and went way overboard with it. Also, there was a 30ish-page scene of a dogfight that I just pretty much completely skipped. Disappointing. ...more<---C>Jesmyn Ward</---C>", "Title": "Salvage the Bones"},
