{"Comments": "Baghdad\u2019s Green Zone is a world unto itself,<---M> with its own power supply</---M>, water, restaurants. One need never leave, and many never do. The author describes the separateness of the place but uses that as a base from which to foray out to related subjects. Some of his examples are particularly poignant. One enterprising fellow built a pizzeria just outside the compound, only to discover that the Americans all eat inside. He talks much about the plague of outsourcing and how it resulted in oddities l Baghdad\u2019s Green Zone is a world unto itself, with its own power supply, water, restaurants. One need never leave, and many never do. The author describes the separateness of the place but uses that as a base from which to foray out to related subjects. Some of his examples are particularly poignant. One enterprising fellow built a pizzeria just outside the compound, only to discover that the Americans all eat inside. He talks much about the plague of outsourcing and how it resulted in oddities like sending laundry to Kuwait to be done. He offers many examples of earnest people trying to do good, but being stymied by either the impracticality of their dreams or interference from a completely politicized administration. He devotes considerable space to the process whereby so-called sovereignty was handed over to the locals. Despite the vast sums allocated by the USA for this enterprise it seems that many of those attempting to actually reconstruct Iraq were always sorely lacking in funds. There was a ridiculous level of bad-faith dealing between the CPA, which was aligned with the Defense Department and any personnel operating at the behest of State. They refused them funds, and even threatened violence against at least one State rep. This is yet another portrayal of the bounteous ineptitude of an administration that put ideology and partisanship ahead of any form of practicality.<---F> It continues to be shocking</---F>. Bremer features heavily here, as an imperious dictator, but with some tempering of the dark portrayal. While the gist of the content is certainly familiar, it is useful, nonetheless, to have the gist filled in with a host of details. A worthwhile if not a required read. The excellent film, The Green Zone , was based, to a large extent, on this book. ...more Alternate Titles for this book could have been: 1. How not to rebuild a nation you just bombed the sh*t out of 2. How to F*ck up everything you touch, the Neocon way 3. Corruption, cronyism and good old fashioned incompetence on an unforeseen scale 4. Southern Efficiency in the Middle East 5. A Confederacy of Dunces 6. Beavis and Butthead Do Iraq You get the message. In other words, if 10% of what Chandasekaran writes is 10% true, then this was the greatest con job in the history of the American Republ Alternate Titles for this book could have been: 1. How not to rebuild a nation you just bombed the sh*t out of 2. How to F*ck up everything you touch, the Neocon way 3. Corruption, cronyism and good old fashioned incompetence on an unforeseen scale 4. Southern Efficiency in the Middle East 5. A Confederacy of Dunces 6. Beavis and Butthead Do Iraq You get the message. In other words, if 10% of what Chandasekaran writes is 10% true, then this was the greatest con job in the history of the American Republic. Seriously, people need to be in jail, starting at the very top and working on down to the lowliest Republican crony. That they got away with it (<---B>and continue to by and large</---B>) is simply amazing. Of course, not a lot of the things written here caused a lot of outrage when reported individually. It is only when seen together that the gross misconduct and the sheer negligence and dereliction of duty by the American State Department, defense contractors and Provisional Government really shines through. ...more The short take: bad organizational structure and writing that is really just mediocre journalistic prose. Although Chandrasekaran begins with a narrative \"I,\" he never really identifies himself, and then launches into details about things like relationships between State department members and Pentagon members back in Washington, making one wonder where the information is coming from. There is little direct quotation, and his presentation and interpretation of events are so mixed that it's diffic The short take: bad organizational structure and writing that is really just mediocre journalistic prose. Although Chandrasekaran begins with a narrative \"I,\" he never really identifies himself, and then launches into details about things like relationships between State department members and Pentagon members back in Washington, making one wonder where the information is coming from. There is little direct quotation, and his presentation and interpretation of events are so mixed that it's difficult to feel that it's an unbiased account. The author hence fails to be convincing in his arguments for the exact reasons and mechanisms by which the U.S. (or more specifically, the Coalition Provisional Authority) failed in Iraq. His explanation of sources given in the notes at the book's end is somewhat redeeming, but not necessarily helpful at the end of the book. Sadly, what appears to be his other goal - to provide an engaging story about the war in Iraq and paint a portrait of life inside the Green Zone - only half succeeds for some of the same reasons. There is no clear voice: sometimes you hear directly from the author, but this often slips into third-person narration, sometimes focused on a CPA employee, sometimes on the state of events in Iraq overall, but he never stays long on one given theme. These vignettes tend to feel stilted, disjointed and formulaic. His attempt to build characters out of key CPA personnel basically includes introducing each person with the same details: what they were doing before Iraq; basic physical description, including particular attention on dress and hair style; current job in the CPA; 2-3 key personality traits; if they're qualified for the job and good, reason they are soon fired; if they aren't qualified, explanation of the GOP connection that got them the job and is why they're keeping it and bungling things up in Iraq. The book is obviously supposed to outrage you at our handling of things in the early part of our presence in Iraq. That it manages fairly well: there's no missing the fact that loyalty to Bush was the main standard by which people were chosen for CPA projects, and that for the most part, this landed us with a bunch of incompetent, unknowledgable fools who were supposed to \"build democracy\" in the country whose infrastructure we had just destroyed in our \"shock and awe\" campaign. Also fairly obvious throughout the book is that the definition of \"democracy\" most of these people are working with looks suspiciously like the definition of \"free market capitalism.\" The money that gets poured into privatization efforts and computerizing the Baghdad Stock Exchange, rather than into rebuilding power plants, water purification plants, or education and improved public safety, is astounding. The lack of questioning of this conflation is also amazing. Why should we think that unlimited opportunities for businessmen to make money will bring peace to a land and teach people how to govern themselves? There's an obvious lesson that we need to really examine what we mean by \"democratic values\" at home before we attempt to force them upon others. The other point that I find most interesting, which comes up only briefly, is that the ethnic and religious divisions fueling Iraq's civil war were largely created by us Americans. The distinctions between Kurd, Sunni, and Shiite existed, but much less so before the American occupation. (Claiming certain affiliations could be pretty dangerous under Saddam's government.) In our attempt at \"fairness,\" however, we hardened these categories to set up governing structures equally divided among these different groups, forcing stronger affiliations, and essentially laying the groundwork for civil war. While Chandrasekaran doesn't lay this out, it lines up well with what has happened in other colonized states like Rwanda (see Mahmood Mamdani's book on this). So, all told, it was an informative book, though otherwise disappointing. ...more A brilliant satire on the occupation of a Middle Eastern country....well it would be, if it weren't true. This gives the reader a fairly shocking insight into the incompetency, arrogance and corruption involved in the Iraq occupation. The Coalition Provisional Authority sets up shop in one of Saddam's palaces and creates a little bubble of Americana called the Green Zone surrounded by a Baghdad teetering on and, subsequently, falling into an abyss. The author, <---A>Rajiv Chandrasekaran</---A>, restrains hims A brilliant satire on the occupation of a Middle Eastern country....well it would be, if it weren't true. This gives the reader a fairly shocking insight into the incompetency, arrogance and corruption involved in the Iraq occupation. The Coalition Provisional Authority sets up shop in one of Saddam's palaces and creates a little bubble of Americana called the Green Zone surrounded by a Baghdad teetering on and, subsequently, falling into an abyss. The author, Rajiv Chandrasekaran, restrains himself from too much editorializing and lets the main characters speak for themselves. These characters do present themselves as, in the main, honourable people who were woefully out of their depth and/or practising self-deception to a staggering level. There are also tales of corruption and plain stupidity - as well as heroism and selflessness. An excellent piece of reportage, that is both well-written, witty and ultimately, inceredibly sad. ...more I knew the war was hatched by a fantasy driven cabal, but this book really laid it out in detail. It's an interesting contrast to another book I recently read, titled \"Muqtada,\" by Patrick Cockburn. Cockburn's book deals with the Iraq almost exclusively from the standpoint of (anti-U.S.) Iraqi Shias. This book deals with the war almost exclusively from the standpoint of the U.S. crew than ran Iraq up until the elections in 2005. Both compliment each other well. The gist of the book is that as so I knew the war was hatched by a fantasy driven cabal, but this book really laid it out in detail. It's an interesting contrast to another book I recently read, titled \"Muqtada,\" by Patrick Cockburn. Cockburn's book deals with the Iraq almost exclusively from the standpoint of (anti-U.S.) Iraqi Shias. This book deals with the war almost exclusively from the standpoint of the U.S. crew than ran Iraq up until the elections in 2005. Both compliment each other well. The gist of the book is that as soon as the war was started, a hand-picked bunch of neocons, or neocon sympathizers, were put in charge of administering Iraq. Most had no idea what they were doing. As Chandrasekaran describes it, many were true believers of the neocon fantasy of rebuilding Iraq to be a shining example of democracy and free capitalism in the Middle East. Douglas Feith, the neocon in charge of setting up the CPA, though it would be accomplished in 90 days. The Coalition Provisional Authority's viceroy, Paul Bremer, dropped all trade restrictions immediately and moved to privatize industry, which the old ministers of the state owned companies were happy to do to make a bunch of money...until their workers tried to assassinate them. Chandraskaran gives a good sense of how much the CPA really believed they were revolutionizing Iraq and his examples of how they did it make a really interesting read. He talks about people hired to deal with traffic who went about writing traffic laws based on those of Massachusetts, a professor from Johns Hopkins University hired to reconstruct the university system who set his sites on creating academic freedom rather than rebuilding the bombed out buildings, and grand plans to create an area code system well before a constitution was even written. To me, Chandraskran is operating a little too much within the official story--he says the occupation ended when sovereignty was handed over and at times suggests that a free market might not be such a bad idea--but it's his total immersion within their fantasy world that makes the book good. His illustrations of life inside the Green Zone, where people used water shipped from Kuwait and had their laundry done there too, are emblematic of US involvement in Iraq: they have their own little world, where they pat each other on the back for being pioneers of freedom, while hell reigns down around them. ...more This was a well-researched and shocking look at the attempt to provide Iraq with a democratic, capitalistic government and way of life after its US invasion/liberation. That such a massive undertaking was began without a clear idea of the next step is a strange truth that is drilled home again and again. Missteps, misguided actions, and good-but-not-thoroughly-thought-through-intentions make up most of this book, but the insights into day-to-day life in the green zone are no less compelling. Heav This was a well-researched and shocking look at the attempt to provide Iraq with a democratic, capitalistic government and way of life after its US invasion/liberation. That such a massive undertaking was began without a clear idea of the next step is a strange truth that is drilled home again and again. Missteps, misguided actions, and good-but-not-thoroughly-thought-through-intentions make up most of this book, but the insights into day-to-day life in the green zone are no less compelling. Heavily recommended. ...more I read this during Spring Break. A very informative book. It is kind of depressing to see how the U.S. Government has allowed private contractors carte blanche as well as establishing a bureacracy in the middle of the war zone in Iraq that would compare with any on Capitol Hill. It made this die-hard Conservative wonder about the effectiveness of our involvement in Iraq. A review of the book when it first came out a few years back: Rajiv Chandrasekaran is with the Washington Post; he has spent time in both Afghanistan and Iraq since the American missions in both places. His experiences in Iraq as well as his interviews with those in Iraq during the time of the CPA (Coalition Provisional Authority, under the control of Paul Bremer) and the precursor organization (under Jay Garner)provide important bases for this work. The picture is not pretty, and ties in with ar A review of the book when it first came out a few years back: Rajiv Chandrasekaran is with the Washington Post; he has spent time in both Afghanistan and Iraq since the American missions in both places. His experiences in Iraq as well as his interviews with those in Iraq during the time of the CPA (Coalition Provisional Authority, under the control of Paul Bremer) and the precursor organization (under Jay Garner)provide important bases for this work. The picture is not pretty, and ties in with arguments advanced by other books on Iraq written of late. First, as readers already know, there was no real plan for after the war. The book makes it clear that much of the redevelopment of Iraq was ad hoc. Since no one understood how much in tatters the electrical grid was, there was no real preparation for dealing with the degraded system. And the end result was that infrastructure was worse after the war as compared with before. And the CPA was unable to do much to restore power and make the system work better. Second, many of the \"leaders\" selected by the CPA were chosen for their political connections. For instance, very young (twenty something) people who had built IOUs from the Administration for, for instance, working in the Bush election campaign, were selected to head units for which they had no expertise at all. Sometimes, seasoned administrators were pushed aside, occasionally because they were not gung ho enough politically. Third, the CPA was fairly clueless about what was happening on the ground in Iraq. They were slow to pick up on the insurgency, for example. It took them some time to understand the importance of the Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. They became landlocked in the \"Green Zone,\" as conditions worsened outside. The book begins with a quotation from T. E. Lawrence (of Arabia), who said in 1917: \"Do not try to do too much with your own hands. Better the Arabs do it tolerably than that you do it perfectly. It is their war, and you are to help them, not to win it for them.\" The book indicates the number of times when Iraqis were given secondary status to Americans, whether in running organizations or on political decision-making. One important neoconservative, on reflection of his experiences in Iraq, became most disillusioned. He commented to the author: \"I'm a neoconservative who's been mugged by reality (page 5).\" What began as an easy military victory turned into a quagmire. As the American involvement moved from liberation to occupation, things began to disintegrate. As one Iraqi told the author (page 290): \"The biggest mistake of the occupation was the occupation itself.\" All in all, one of the more powerful books about the American incursion into Iraq; it is also one of the best descriptions of the CPA's reign in Iraq. It triangulates strongly with other volumes. ...more <+++>Imperial Life in the Emerald City: Inside Iraq's Green Zone</+++> is the compelling story about the U.S. occupation in Iraq and the culture of inexperience, arrogance, and cronyism within the U.S. Green Zone. My previous impression of the Iraq war was that U.S. officials were well-meaning but sometimes misguided and the U.S. media portrayed a sugar-coated view rather than the reality of life on the ground. Listening to this audiobook, I felt shocked by just how much worse the situation had been than I <+++>Imperial Life in the Emerald City: Inside Iraq's Green Zone</+++> is the compelling story about the U.S. occupation in Iraq and the culture of inexperience, arrogance, and cronyism within the U.S. Green Zone. My previous impression of the Iraq war was that U.S. officials were well-meaning but sometimes misguided and the U.S. media portrayed a sugar-coated view rather than the reality of life on the ground. Listening to this audiobook, I felt shocked by just how much worse the situation had been than I'd previously realized. I found Imperial Life in the Emerald City so enlightening and informative that I didn't want to take a break from listening. Ray Porter's narration more than does justice to Rajiv Chandrasekaran's story. This audiobook felt like listening to a fascinating novel rather than a nonfiction account by a newspaper journalist... the story and narration are powerful and engaging. I highly recommend this audiobook to anyone who wants to better understand the \"story behind the story\" of the U.S. in 2003-2004 Iraq. ...more Rajiv Chandrasekaran's book is journalism at its best, and the loss will be irreparable if newspaper journalists fade into extinction. The Emerald City is an image reminiscent of the Raj \u2013 Americans relaxing around a swimming pool, in a 7 square mile enclave, enjoying drinks, eating American food, relaxing in clean clothing in the middle of Baghdad. The segregation from the real Iraq was genuine; the relaxed lifestyle an illusion. The occupation of Iraq brought a flood of ill-prepared, idealisti Rajiv Chandrasekaran's book is journalism at its best, and the loss will be irreparable if newspaper journalists fade into extinction. The Emerald City is an image reminiscent of the Raj \u2013 Americans relaxing around a swimming pool, in a 7 square mile enclave, enjoying drinks, eating American food, relaxing in clean clothing in the middle of Baghdad. The segregation from the real Iraq was genuine; the relaxed lifestyle an illusion. The occupation of Iraq brought a flood of ill-prepared, idealistic visionaries with conflicting goals to reconstruct a society that was already broken before the American invasion. They enjoyed the comfort of air-conditioning, laundry service carted out to neighboring Kuwait, and a modern hospital facility run by the 28th Combat Unit. What they lacked was the time to scale the steep learning curve ahead of them, an overall plan that included knowledge of Iraqi political and economic realities, and an incentive to leave this cocoon of safety. IMPERIAL LIFE IN THE EMERALD CITY; INSIDE IRAQ'S GREEN ZONE, intersperses anecdotal \u201cscenes\u201d of individual lives and vignettes of ironic humor with in-depth analysis of the events from the fall of Baghdad to June 2004 when an interim Iraqi government took over and Viceroy Bremer departed. The arbitrary decision making that affected these lives is at times disturbing. A primary obstacle to reconstruction was the hasty selection of a team lacking in experience \u2013 especially post-conflict experience. Some quickly adapted. Steve Browning's name is frequently mentioned. Originally with the Army Corp of Engineers, he succeeded in providing generators for the country's hospitals, and distributing medicine sitting idly in warehouses to the places they were needed. He also tried to learn some Arabic and to observe respect for Iraqi customs. Unfortunately, his story was the exception rather than the rule. Too many appointees were selected because of their Republican Party affiliations. One such recruit tried to make an anti-smoking campaign a public health priority. The occupation lasted for less than 9 months. It was too short a time to learn from mistakes, but long enough for mistakes to accumulate in an increasing number of Iraqi minds. The occupation began with no overall plan, but with conflicting political agendas in Washington. The Pentagon wanted to stabilize Iraq and favored installation of Iraqi exile Ahmed Chalabi. The State Department and the CIA did not trust Chalabi and wanted their own people included in the reconstruction process. The NSC initially left the details in the hands of the Defense Department. By Fall they were re-thinking the domestic implications of Bremer's plans and began exerting greater control. Colin Powell learned the details of Bremer's transition plan from the op-ed pages of the Washington Post. Internal communication was not the only problem. The Green Zone was an island of safety. Few Americans ventured out of it or were curious about Iraqi customs or learning Arabic. A major misstep was the failure to recognize the importance of religion \u2013 even for secular moderates. Insistence on an American-style separation of Church and State made no sense in Iraq. Similarly, no one in a leadership position understood the importance of the Shiite leader, Sayyid Ali al-Sistani. Another miscalculation was the structure of the Baath Party under Saadam. Bremer's de-Baathification policy disqualified many of the most able and well-educated from a role in the new Iraq. IMPERIAL LIFE IN THE EMERALD CITY is a long book portraying dozens of people, and includes interviews with dozens of others. Chandrasekaran holds our interest by organizing various stories \u2013 the obsession with privatization, the problems with the electric grid, the escalation of violence, the ill-conceived awarding of an airport security contract to an inexperienced start-up which went on to scam the government out of millions due to fraud. However, this can, at the same time, make for a confusing narrative. The astute reader would be wise to keep a brief chronology of events, and a list of names mentioned in order to grasp the structure of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA). (If you want mine, I'm happy to oblige). Chandrasekaran obviously wonders if fewer mistakes would have led to a better outcome. Yet, he does not force the reader to agree with him. By presenting a many-faceted story, he allows each reader to judge for himself. I finished this book with the sad conclusion that failure was inevitable. Rather than finding fault with any particular individual, his story seems to tell the saga of a classical tragedy brought on by hubris. ...more Rajiv Chandrasekaran brings depth to the story behind the headlines. He has certainly taken a large body of knowledge and distilled it for easy consumption. Now I know why stories of reconstruction were so fuzzy and few. Tommy Thompson (Secy of Health and Human Services) provides a photo-op for a new hospital --- opened in the Green Zone but not presented as such. Now I know how Casey (son of Cindy) Sheehan (and 7 others) died --- Bremer closed Moqtada al-Sadr's paper without alerting the US patr Rajiv Chandrasekaran brings depth to the story behind the headlines. He has certainly taken a large body of knowledge and distilled it for easy consumption. Now I know why stories of reconstruction were so fuzzy and few. Tommy Thompson (Secy of Health and Human Services) provides a photo-op for a new hospital --- opened in the Green Zone but not presented as such. Now I know how Casey (son of Cindy) Sheehan (and 7 others) died --- Bremer closed Moqtada al-Sadr's paper without alerting the US patrols of that area. I learned much more. This book makes me angry all over again. One of the benefits of this endeavor could have been providing a better life for the Iraqis, but it's like Katrina on a larger scale. Even seasoned disaster or war zone professionals would find this a challenge. Mr. Chandrasekaran describes how people were hired, not because they were qualified, but for their connections, starting with the top, Jerry Bremer was tied to Henry Kissinger. Did Bremer think that rendering 1/3 of the Iraqi population unemployed was a practical thing? Did Bremer think that changing the food rations (socialism) to debit cards (capitalism) in a country with no phone lines, computers, etc. was a practical thing? Fortunately a firefighter from Buffalo could explain this to him, but he may not have backed down if he hadn't had so many other problems. The 24 year old hired to open the Iraqi stock exchange impeded its opening by fanciful attempts to copy the US stock exchange technology and regulations and on pages 229 -231, takes credit for its eventual opening in a manner, if not for him could have been done months earlier. This is the template for the attitude expressed by Bremer and others in the Green Zone reunion described at the end of the book. The actions and the attitudes that spawned them clearly fit the patterns described in Conservatives without Conscience . Some participants, like John Agresto have a more realistic appraisal of what could have been and what went wrong. Others may never understand. In the meanwhile, the missed opportunity has made life for Iraqis (for insight into this Waiting for an Ordinary Day: The Unraveling of Life in Iraq more difficult, and the latest news suggests little change. ...more Imperial Life In The Emerald City by Rajiv Chandrasekaran is a journalistic recounting of the disastrous American attempts to rebuild Iraq as a mini-America in the aftermath of the second Gulf War. I am British and have read numerous historical accounts of our monumental Empire-building cock-ups, however it would have been nice to believe that such heavy-handed imperialism was a thing of the past. Chandrasekaran's book shows that it certainly isn't and I spent much of the first half in a state o Imperial Life In The Emerald City by Rajiv Chandrasekaran is a journalistic recounting of the disastrous American attempts to rebuild Iraq as a mini-America in the aftermath of the second Gulf War. I am British and have read numerous historical accounts of our monumental Empire-building cock-ups, however it would have been nice to believe that such heavy-handed imperialism was a thing of the past. Chandrasekaran's book shows that it certainly isn't and I spent much of the first half in a state of almost continuous disbelief. By the second half, I was becoming quite punch-drunk from the continued revelations. When Iraq fell to the American army, politicians back in Washington had already determined that they wanted the country to rise up again as a shining beacon of capitalist democracy in the Middle East. They didn't know how to achieve this goal, but set about it by cocooning their staff in Saddam's luxurious palace complex, giving lots of press conferences in English and, most importantly, by only sending people who had been vetted for the 'right' political leanings. Not for ability or experience, just for an unshakeable belief in George W Bush. Extreme paranoia an advantage. Imperial Life In The Emerald City is basically a guide for how not to occupy a country you have just invaded. Even if that country's people wanted you there initially, they will soon change their minds if treated as irrelevant and, with hindsight, it really is no surprise that organisations such as ISIS grew out of the chaos. I appreciated Chandrasekaran's clear writing style as there are so many different people mentioned that keeping track of who's who is difficult, especially for someone like me who doesn't really follow American politics. The book has extensive detail which makes vividly imagining the Green Zone enclave easy and I now feel as though I have a far greater understanding of what really happened in Iraq and why. See more of my book reviews on my blog, Stephanie Jane ...more This book was well done; however, a lot of focus was on the negative. MSM tends to already be trying to drag down what is going on there; Not saying it's all rosy, but as a retired Military person, I know exactly what the cost is in combat and \"occupation\" force, and really would like to see someone not use this war (and that's what it is) for political badgering because you don't like how the administration is doing things, so much as an opportunity to observe and report and let smart people de This book was well done; however, a lot of focus was on the negative. MSM tends to already be trying to drag down what is going on there; Not saying it's all rosy, but as a retired Military person, I know exactly what the cost is in combat and \"occupation\" force, and really would like to see someone not use this war (and that's what it is) for political badgering because you don't like how the administration is doing things, so much as an opportunity to observe and report and let smart people decide what is truly going on. It's tough enough for the command structure to keep people motivated in a long war without those they are protecting (as in free speech) using it to focus on how things aren't perfect. They never will be... but why not focus on something positive for once. I rarely hear about the good things we are doing, unless I open the blogs of military people doing the hard job, being away from their families, helping a nation to recover. And at the same time, making sure the other nations around this one do not get too medieval in trying to grab land from the weak. This topic deserves a long, many-volume review, not a sound bite. That said, many things in this book were enlightening and brought out the true nature of those in power below the Presidential level. I've been in charge of thousands of people, and there is so much that is never reported that cannot or should not be brought to light...and so much that is neglected which SHOULD be highlighted. ...more I started reading on a Friday night and could not put it down until on reaching page 274 I simply couldn't keep my eyes open. This is a shocking, damning picture of the idealogically driven attempts of the Coalition Provisional Authority to rebuild Iraq after the fall of Sadaam Hussein. The utter naivity of some at the highest levels is sad, but unforgivably there is also deliberate refusal to engage with the country's actual situation in lieu of creating a utopian America of the Middle East. Cha I started reading on a Friday night and could not put it down until on reaching page 274 I simply couldn't keep my eyes open. This is a shocking, damning picture of the idealogically driven attempts of the Coalition Provisional Authority to rebuild Iraq after the fall of Sadaam Hussein. The utter naivity of some at the highest levels is sad, but unforgivably there is also deliberate refusal to engage with the country's actual situation in lieu of creating a utopian America of the Middle East. Chandrasekaran's portrait is scathing but achieves this through an almost laconic prose style that largely lets the idiocy and amorality speak for itself. There is so much damning material that almost anyone could have pulled together an interesting account but Chandrasekaran charts the events with understated skill and an exceptional eye for the absurd. He rightly captures the seemingly few good souls who fought against the prevailing winds of incompetence and therefore achieves a balance in the account as well as relief from an almost unmitigated tragedy. I am wiser for having read this sobering and important book. ...more Everyone knows the American occupation of Iraq has been anything but a success, but if you really want to know how and why it spiraled into a free-fall, read Imperial Life in the Emerald City . It\u2019s an enraging document of spectacular failure--about how, during the first year of the occupation, virtually every effort to restore food rationing, medical care, electricity, factory production, traffic law, the university system, the police force, the Iraqi news media, and the writing of a new constit Everyone knows the American occupation of Iraq has been anything but a success, but if you really want to know how and why it spiraled into a free-fall, read Imperial Life in the Emerald City . It\u2019s an enraging document of spectacular failure--about how, during the first year of the occupation, virtually every effort to restore food rationing, medical care, electricity, factory production, traffic law, the university system, the police force, the Iraqi news media, and the writing of a new constitution was hobbled by the American authorities\u2019 \u201cIt\u2019s my way or the highway\u201d attitude towards decision-making--not to mention the infighting between the CIA, the Pentagon, and the State Department. What hurt the U.S. most, thought, was a mix of stubborn allegiance to rewarding recruits\u2019 political (Republican) loyalties and the government\u2019s willingness, for the sake of saving time, to seek out people who had little to no experience in the problems they were sent to Iraq to fix. (The phrase \u201cno previous experience\u201d appears in just about every chapter). A candidate applying for a staffing job in the Green Zone could be considered \u201cideal\u201d simply because he'd worked for the Republican Party in Florida during the presidential election recount, or was a prominent Republican National Committee contributor, or simply responded that he opposed abortion and supported capital punishment when asked in a Pentagon interview. The biggest takeaway from Imperial Life in the Emerald City is that, in the end, the war in Iraq is the Iraqis\u2019 war, not America\u2019s, and that perhaps our biggest failure was to think that democracy can be replicated on a one-size-fits-all basis. For his epigraph, Chandrasekaran chose a 1917 quote from T.E. Lawrence: \u201cDo not try to do too much with your own hands. Better the Arabs do it tolerably than that you do it perfectly. It is their war, and you are to help them, not to win it for them. Actually, also, under the very odd conditions of Arabia, your practical work will not be as good as, perhaps, you think it is.\u201d ...more Hey, I've got an idea. We've got a big project. An important one. Actually, an impossible one. But we're Americans, and we've done some great things in the past. Let's grab our friends and head out. No need to hire selectively and look for highly qualified people. There are 300 million people in this country, but our friends are probably as good as it gets, so we'll use them. No need to train them. Now that they're over there, let's make sure that they can't possibly get their hands on the resou Hey, I've got an idea. We've got a big project. An important one. Actually, an impossible one. But we're Americans, and we've done some great things in the past. Let's grab our friends and head out. No need to hire selectively and look for highly qualified people. There are 300 million people in this country, but our friends are probably as good as it gets, so we'll use them. No need to train them. Now that they're over there, let's make sure that they can't possibly get their hands on the resources they need to do their jobs. Make sure they spend all their time together and that no one else talks to them, so that they don't get any stupid ideas. Anytime they start to get traction on whatever impossible task we've set for them, let's change the plan. You know what, when I write it down it starts to sound like a bad startup. Which just goes to show you that one doesn't need to be a Republican to fall for this kind of thinking. At least your typical bad software startup fails on a small scale, and no lives are at stake. This is a good book, but an incredibly depressing one. The author points out that there were some extremely hard-working intelligent people in the CPA, and even they couldn't overcome the obstacles. The hard-working people who weren't so intelligent and had no useful experience...well, no surprise that they couldn't get it done, either. If the author found lazy people in the CPA, he doesn't mention them. There's one thing in our favor. The military comes out looking like a world-class organization made up of well-trained, disciplined individuals. The military takes planning very seriously, and it shows. Too bad we don't have a group of civilians that we prepare for situations like this, the way we do with the military. Oh, wait, that's the State Department. I honestly don't think they could have accomplished this impossible task, either, but at least we could say we sent in the A team. ...more This is primarily a collection of anecdotes of the tenure of the Coalition Provisional Authority under Bremer in Iraq, and to a lesser extent the shorter tenure of Jay Garner preceding the CPA. The purpose of the book is to illustrate how badly the U.S. screwed up the occupation of Iraq. While a few of the anecdotes don't strike me as being nearly as negative as the author colors them, on balance this book basically makes one ill, just by emphasizing how badly we were served by our government. T This is primarily a collection of anecdotes of the tenure of the Coalition Provisional Authority under Bremer in Iraq, and to a lesser extent the shorter tenure of Jay Garner preceding the CPA. The purpose of the book is to illustrate how badly the U.S. screwed up the occupation of Iraq. While a few of the anecdotes don't strike me as being nearly as negative as the author colors them, on balance this book basically makes one ill, just by emphasizing how badly we were served by our government. The lessons he draws from all of this seem to be the following: 1. The mission of creating a liberaly, moderate democracy in Iraq was unrealistic from the beginning. It remains unclear to this day to what extent this was, in fact, a driving motivation for our invasion; certainly, there were elements in the Bush administration for whom this was the principal goal, but at the same time it is clear that other parts of the administration weren't particularly interested in this at the beginning. The author does not get into the internal domestic politics of this, but he does make it clear how foolish it was to believe we could impose a political culture on Iraq. 2. By and large, the CPA was staffed by Republican loyalists, rather than by those considered the most experienced, expert and competent for the particular tasks. Those few individuals who were actually sent to Iraq because of their expertise were often ignored by CPA senior management. 3. As a result, much of the attention and energy of the staff was focused on projects which were silly, pointless or worse, rather than focused on the essential tasks of re-establishing adequate electrical power, etc. 4. Even where the U.S. addressed important project missions, the resources committed were completely inadequate and were spent wastefully. ...more Never in all of the years of reading have I been as outraged as I was while reading this book. The matter of fact recitation of the never-ending list of inept post-Iraq war decisions, incompetent staffing, corrupt contractors' waste of now-sorely needed tax dollars caused me fits of apoplexy. Beyond defeating Saddam there were few other identifiable victories during the period covered by the book. Post-war planning occurred organically, as messes developed strategies were eventually devised to co Never in all of the years of reading have I been as outraged as I was while reading this book. The matter of fact recitation of the never-ending list of inept post-Iraq war decisions, incompetent staffing, corrupt contractors' waste of now-sorely needed tax dollars caused me fits of apoplexy. Beyond defeating Saddam there were few other identifiable victories during the period covered by the book. Post-war planning occurred organically, as messes developed strategies were eventually devised to counter them. Results: too little too late done poorly. The extent of cronyism and inexperience of the people sent to manage complex governmental and civil affairs made me shudder. The Bush Administration seems to have completely ignored anyone with Arabic/Iraq expertise and sought to apply a let's remake Iraq in the image of America strategy. With hubristic blindness they sought to nation-build but sent political hacks, adventure seekers, avaricious and unprincipled contractors, progeny of \"big\" donors and lackeys. Couple this with the false reports of success that were then reported to Washington and it makes the perfect recipe for the civil unrest that percolated. What makes matters worse is that those in power made decisions in isolation from Iraqis. The assumptions that neoconservative ideology could trump on-the-ground realities did a huge disservice to the legacy of Ronald Reagan and neoconservatism. The cost of this lost opportunity to leave Iraq better than we found it should haunt all who were involved. ...more Written by the former Baghdad bureau chief of the Washington Post , this book is simply what he saw in Iraq between the \"end\" of combat in 2003 and Paul Bremer's ignominious departure in 2004. Mostly what he sees is the complete mismanagement of basic postwar planning; the first raised, then dashed, hopes of Iraqis who have already suffered through the destructive rule of Saddam Hussein; and the arrogant approach of American political appointees, institutions and companies that are intent on tran Written by the former Baghdad bureau chief of the Washington Post , this book is simply what he saw in Iraq between the \"end\" of combat in 2003 and Paul Bremer's ignominious departure in 2004. Mostly what he sees is the complete mismanagement of basic postwar planning; the first raised, then dashed, hopes of Iraqis who have already suffered through the destructive rule of Saddam Hussein; and the arrogant approach of American political appointees, institutions and companies that are intent on transforming Iraq with little or no knowledge of the country that they are in. Life in the \"emerald city\" - the Green Zone for the Americans, set up in one of Saddam Hussein's former palaces -- takes on an unreal quality, as Americans first set up a miniature world with all of the comforts of home, and then become increasingly frustrated and disillusioned with their mission. The book strives to set an impartial and objective tone by simply describing increasingly ineffective and unrealistic American plans to transform Iraq. Given the politics around the Iraq war, this makes it an effective firsthand account, particularly of the absurdities of American life and intentions in Iraq. However, the book doesn't really have an overall narrative or viewpoint, which detracts from its ability to analyze why things happened the way they did. The book is most effective when it follows the particular struggles of people in Iraq, mostly Americans, who are often well-intentioned but often clueless. As one of them puts it, \"I'm a neoconservative who got mugged by reality\". ...more Although not a supporter of the US administration that entered Iraq under the pretense of finding and destroying WMDs that never existed, this author expresses an unabashed bias against the administration and virtually everything the team in Iraq, and Washington, did during the days immediately following the invasion and the chaos that ensued. At times the author was contradictory. Criticizing in earlier chapters that some things moved too quickly, the author would, in later chapters, criticize t Although not a supporter of the US administration that entered Iraq under the pretense of finding and destroying WMDs that never existed, this author expresses an unabashed bias against the administration and virtually everything the team in Iraq, and Washington, did during the days immediately following the invasion and the chaos that ensued. At times the author was contradictory. Criticizing in earlier chapters that some things moved too quickly, the author would, in later chapters, criticize that those same initiatives moved too slowly. Where other people who may have never been in the midst of a disastrous, chaotic situation ( e.g., hurricane, tornado, flood, fire, earthquake, etc.) may find this book fascinating, for those who have been in the midst of a disaster will remember how so many things are so unfortunately out of control, that you find the author's contempt for progress of any kind belittling. The only (small) redeeming factors were that I learned of some details about the days following the Iraq invasion that I was not aware of, and the book was a quick read so not much time was wasted. However, those qualities do not rise the level of wanting to recommend this book. There are too many good books to be read than to be spending time listening to someone express one-sided biases. ...more Rajiv Chandrasekaran, assistant managing editor of the Washington Post and its former Baghdad bureau chief, knows the landscape in Iraq as well as anyone, having spent two years in-country as a reporter. His careful, evenhanded reportage amplifies the seriousness of the problems that America still faces in Iraq. As Adam Dunn points out, \"the Iraqis don't fare much better than their occupiers\" under Chandrasekaran's judicious gaze. The book covers ground similar to that of Larry Diamond's Squande Rajiv Chandrasekaran, assistant managing editor of the Washington Post and its former Baghdad bureau chief, knows the landscape in Iraq as well as anyone, having spent two years in-country as a reporter. His careful, evenhanded reportage amplifies the seriousness of the problems that America still faces in Iraq. As Adam Dunn points out, \"the Iraqis don't fare much better than their occupiers\" under Chandrasekaran's judicious gaze. The book covers ground similar to that of Larry Diamond's Squandered Victory (2005) and Anthony Shadid's Night Draws Near (2005), though the author's proximity to the events he reports in this \"withering assessment\" (Andrew Metz) separates Emerald City from the spate of books being published on the war in Iraq This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine . ...more An outstanding, and darkly comic, inside look at America's false hope and ill intentions toward rebuilding Iraq. As someone \"who came of age\" during the run up to the Iraq invasion and subsequent years, this book took me back to 2003 and 2004 as the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) set out to remake Iraq in Bush's vision of America. This book delves deep into the CPA's Green Zone - and explores the horrible irony of setting up shop in Saddam's former palace grounds with all the trappings of An outstanding, and darkly comic, inside look at America's false hope and ill intentions toward rebuilding Iraq. As someone \"who came of age\" during the run up to the Iraq invasion and subsequent years, this book took me back to 2003 and 2004 as the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) set out to remake Iraq in Bush's vision of America. This book delves deep into the CPA's Green Zone - and explores the horrible irony of setting up shop in Saddam's former palace grounds with all the trappings of modernity and comfort all the while the Iraq's people lived with no basic services, no protection, and no support from the CPA. The author intertwines personalities, both Iraqi and American, life in the Green Zone, with life around Baghdad and tell the story of an invasion that was ill planned and horribly executed. An excellent read - very detailed, well written, and darkly entertaining. ...more who needs satire when you have the coalition provisional authority? without a doubt, fred flinstone would have done a better job in iraq that paul bremer Rajiv Chandrasekaran, the author and narrator of Life in the Emerald City, describes his experience in the Green Zone of American occupied Baghdad, Iraq. The Green Zone was originally used for the Ba\u2019ath Party\u2019s administrative headquarters lead by Saddam Hussein. However, after the Americans invaded, it was used as the headquarters for the American military. Jay Garner, the head of the Office of Reconstruction for Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA), was transferred to Baghdad to set up his headquar Rajiv Chandrasekaran, the author and narrator of Life in the Emerald City, describes his experience in the Green Zone of American occupied Baghdad, Iraq. The Green Zone was originally used for the Ba\u2019ath Party\u2019s administrative headquarters lead by Saddam Hussein. However, after the Americans invaded, it was used as the headquarters for the American military. Jay Garner, the head of the Office of Reconstruction for Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA), was transferred to Baghdad to set up his headquarters. As he struggled to find a competent team to help him with Baghdad\u2019s post-war reconstruction, the American government attempted to pass Ahmed Chalabi as the new Iraqi prime minister. Imperial Life in the Emerald City by Rajiv Chandrasekaran is a non-fiction book about the aftermath of the invasion in Iraq, and the attempt of the American government to rebuild Iraq and re-establish an Iraqi government. The tone throughout the book is informative. The book contains nothing but facts. This is beneficial to the reader if his or her goal is to be informed of post war Iraq. The book contains fervent descriptions and vivid imagery. These parts of the book can be quite interesting and sometimes go on for several pages. The characters in the book seem real because the characters are real people. Overall, the book is very thorough in explaining the facts of post war Iraq. Although Life in the Emerald City has an abundance of factual information, the book is at times hard to concentrate due to the constant bombardment of information. The book may not engage some readers due to a lack of connection with a main character because the book is of the nonfiction genre. Also, the authors purpose is strictly to inform, and some readers may not desire to be informed but to be entertained. Readers with a shorter attention span may find it difficult to focus for long periods of time while reading this book. This book deserves a four star rating due to its surplus of accurate facts about post war Iraq. It did not receive four stars because the book would only be enjoyed by a small audience. Also, it was difficult to stay concentrated for long periods of time (after about fifty pages). This book would not be recommended for readers that have difficulty concentrating or short attention spans. However, the book would be enjoyed by someone interested in Iraq\u2019s history, especially someone interested in the period after the American invasion. Overall the book was decent and provided a lot of information. ...more One may be wondering when picking up this book and beginning to read it on the background of Chandrasekaran, like I was, with the point being that someone from an Iraq or Middle East background would give a different perspective than the many books written by Westerners. According to Wikipedia, Chandrasekaran is an Indian-American journalist. I suspected he was an American, but him presumably being originally from India is an interesting twist. I guess you don't see many Indian journalists out t One may be wondering when picking up this book and beginning to read it on the background of Chandrasekaran, like I was, with the point being that someone from an Iraq or Middle East background would give a different perspective than the many books written by Westerners. According to Wikipedia, Chandrasekaran is an Indian-American journalist. I suspected he was an American, but him presumably being originally from India is an interesting twist. I guess you don't see many Indian journalists out there on the global scene, and a view from such an individual on Iraq would be, again, interesting. Overall, the tone or attitude Chandrasekaren writes with makes the book rather readable, and likeable, at least for me. He is mildly to moderately wary of the American-led war; but the book does go through some of the basic problems, and a bit of the progress of the Coalition Provisional Authority - i.e, the CPA - the administration set up by in Iraq by Washington to lead reconstruction after the initial, temporary Army-based one withdrew [forget it's name]. The scope of the book is basically the year of the CPA (concluding with the post-return CPA anniversary party). There are insights you might not find elsewhere, and that is what I like. These details are just the nitty-gritty nuts & bolts of the CPA issues--nothing -too- detailed or comprehensive, but good enough for me at my current level of knowledge on the Iraq War, War on Terror, etc. Just a disclaimer (sort of a humorous one) - I listened to most of this on audiobook and slept through some degree of the last few chapters. However, I don't think this affected the gist of my opinion (smiley face). ...more Where do I begin? How do I start to review a book such as this? Is this one of my favorite book? Oh, no. Not even close. But this is a very IMPORTANT book. This might be one of those books that everyone should read. First of all, after 9/11, if America needed to chase after the perpetrators of that event, we should have gone after Saudi Arabia rather than Iraq. Where there any Iraqis among them? Out of nineteen, fifteen were from Saudi Arabia. Two were from UAE. One was from Egypt. One was from L Where do I begin? How do I start to review a book such as this? Is this one of my favorite book? Oh, no. Not even close. But this is a very IMPORTANT book. This might be one of those books that everyone should read. First of all, after 9/11, if America needed to chase after the perpetrators of that event, we should have gone after Saudi Arabia rather than Iraq. Where there any Iraqis among them? Out of nineteen, fifteen were from Saudi Arabia. Two were from UAE. One was from Egypt. One was from Lebannon. I don\u2019t want to go into why America declared war on a sovereign nation which had nothing to do with 9/11, BUT I\u2019d like to believe that President Bush did what he believed was best for our country at the time. I think this book should be required reading for the President of United States and his cabinet members as well the various department heads and all those who are going into foreign service. I\u2019m sure America will inadvertently be drawn into another nation building sometime in the near future. There is so much to learn from this book. Unfortunately, it\u2019s mostly what not to do, not the other way around. I\u2019m also currently reading John Adams (which is a much thicker book), which I\u2019m enjoying immensely. What surprises me about that book is\u2026how in the world did all the stars and planets line up, and all these men, with flaws and all, came together to form this great nation? It\u2019s as if all the men rose to the challenge of the time and pulled together and compensated for one another\u2019s weaknesses. America was indeed lucky to have such men at such desperate times. But supposedly Oprah Winfry famously declared that she didn\u2019t believe in luck. That luck only happened when preparation (however long it took) met opportunity. Well, America\u2019s efforts to rebuild Iraq were EXACTLY the opposite. How President Bush and his cabinet can pull together a team that failed and disappointed at every turn (except for a few who only succeeded by breaking the rules) was amazing. How they squandered such an opportunity to rebuild Iraq is stupefying (I know. I\u2019m repeating myself). I don\u2019t think they could have put together a worse team if they\u2019d tried. I guess that\u2019s the sad part \u2013 they pulled the team together based on loyalty and party allegiance rather than experience and capabilities. A couple of people have succeeded, against overwhelming odds, by breaking the rules but most have failed because they were driven by American ignorance and arrogance. SPOILER ALERT. \u201cAs the [American] viceroy, [Paul] Bremer need only put down his signature to impose a new law, or to abolish an old one. He wasn\u2019t required to consult with Iraqis or even seek their consent.\u201d How does this work? An American, who is not an expert in Arabic anything, gets this kind of power? If in the far future, America\u2019s power wanes and some other country occupies it for whatever reason, would we want someone to impose or abolish our laws with a stroke of his/her pen? I\u2019ve been reading some books on Korean history in the time of Japanese occupation. In these books, celebrated Korean patriots (and yes, some were suicide bombers) who fought against the occupation were called terrorists, rebels, commies, etc. by the Japanese occupiers. The books go on to explain that any man, in any country, would most likely to resist and fight against an occupying power, no matter what. There is no benevolent occupying force. There are no greater incentives to bear arms and fight than for your family, for your home, for your culture, and for your country. This should not be a new concept to the American diplomatic corp, should it? Whether it is McPherson\u2019s clean-slate approach to forgiving debt and nullifying assets to Foley\u2019s utter disregard for the international law which prohibits the sale of assets by an occupation government when he talked about privatization, these people didn\u2019t consider what the lasting consequences of their actions would be. Considering that Alexander Hamilton, America\u2019s first treasury secretary, insisted on the American government making good on its foreign and domestic debts, McPherson\u2019s approach was flawed but worse still, he refused to listen to any other input. One after another, the list of ineptitude, misdirection, lost opportunities, not taking input from native Iraqis or regional experts, unscrupulous contractors, and ignorant arrogance is appalling and eye-opening. But worst of all (in my point of view), is that Americans forced the Iraqis to identify themselves in sectarian terms. In their blind, formulaic efforts to create a more \u201cdemocratic government,\u201d the Americans forced each Iraqi to declare himself as a Shiite, a Kurd, a Sunni, a Christian, a Turkmen, etc. The Iraqi governing council had strict quotas \u2013 13 Shiite Arabs, 5 Sunni Arabs, 5 Sunni Kurds, 1 Christian, and 1 Turkmen. Before this, most Iraqis \u201c\u2026never saw each other as Sunnis or Shiites first. We were Iraqis first.\u201d This forced identification led to dramatic rise in sectarian violence which continues to this day. I, who hate to dog-ear any book, have dog-eared many pages in this book, because I wanted to write about those issues. But I\u2019m getting tired and depressed (because there are so many\u2026), so I\u2019ll let you find out for yourself. The last bit\u2026in an interview before his departure from Iraq, Paul Bremer, the American viceroy, touted \u201clowering of Iraq\u2019s tax rate, the liberalization of foreign-investment laws, and the reduction of import duties\u201d as among his biggest accomplishments in Iraq. To that, I just want to say \u2013 what the\u2026? I usually read fiction because partly, I want to live in denial and think that these horrible things (not just talking about this book) don\u2019t happen in real life. But this is one book that everyone should read because it\u2019s so eye-opening. This is an eloquent and a riveting book that is surprisingly balanced in its writing. It\u2019s a chronicle of what took place. A set of data put into words. But I can\u2019t deny that the data, how little was accomplished for so much money, is damning. But most importantly, although these CPA staffers thought they were doing good, how much misery was heaped on the Iraqi people by the sum of CPA\u2019s good intentions based on their sheer ignorance and arrogance is almost unforgivable. ...more By now, pretty much the entire world knows that the American occupation of Iraq was a colossal catastrophe. The idiocy of the criminal conspiracy known to history as the Bush administration combined with the disregard that occupation forces showed for Iraqi wishes and the utter lack of knowledge of Arabic, Iraq, or basically anything other than how to punch \"Republican\" in the voting booth or make the requisite thrice-daily ablutions and sacrifices to Mammon that most of the people sent to admin By now, pretty much the entire world knows that the American occupation of Iraq was a colossal catastrophe. The idiocy of the criminal conspiracy known to history as the Bush administration combined with the disregard that occupation forces showed for Iraqi wishes and the utter lack of knowledge of Arabic, Iraq, or basically anything other than how to punch \"Republican\" in the voting booth or make the requisite thrice-daily ablutions and sacrifices to Mammon that most of the people sent to administer the occupation had led to years of strife, hundreds of thousands of civilian deaths, and the current rise to power of ISIL, one of the most horrific movements in modern times. But this is before all of that. Imperial Life in the Emerald City only really covers 2003-2005, the years where we directly controlled Iraq before the handover of sovereignty. Chandrasekaran was Washington Post chief of the Baghdad bureau, so he had access to a lot of the decision-makers in the occupation forces and knew Iraq reasonably well, and he paints a picture of one disaster after another. The base cafeteria in Saddam's former palace served a lot of Southern food, which made heavy use of pork even though a lot of the workers hired to staff the cafeteria were Muslim. The Pentagon and the State Department repeatedly got into jurisdictional disputes that hindered both sides' ability to do their jobs. The Bushites wanted famously-corrupt and ineffective Iraqi exile Ahmed Chalabi to head the transitional government because he had the most important characteristic to them--loyalty to their agenda of making Iraq a glorious free market libertarian utopia--even though he was famously-corrupt and unlikely to be supported by most of the locals. They ignored most of the proclamations of Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, figuring he was just some cleric they could brush aside, and only changed their tune when they realize how influential he was. Of course, by that point, he had dug in his heels--and really, \"The constitution should be written by Iraqis who are democratically elected by Iraqis\" isn't an unreasonable demand even if the occupiers wanted to set up a puppet government. That's kind of theme throughout here, actually. Democracy is dangerous because what if people elect someone you don't like, and as America has always done in the world, when freedom and democracy conflict with American monetary and corporate interests, freedom and democracy get black-bagged and set to Abu Ghraib. The Coalition Provisional Authority set up a policy of de-Baathification, which was reasonable popular among Iraqis, but then they utterly botched it due to Paul Bremer's my way or the highway attitude. See, the Baath Party contained both true believers and people who had to take membership in order to advance at work or keep their jobs, and de-Baathification basically fired everyone above the rank of grunt, which included huge portions of the army and professional class. All of a sudden, unemployment is at 40% and a ton of people with combat training are out of work, so what do they do and who do they blame? Also, I learned that Halliburton is literally kitten-killing evil. Apparently there were a lot of stray cats and kittens on the grounds of the Green Zone, and CPA staffers would steal milk and meat from the cafeteria to feed them. Eventually Halliburton got annoyed with them and was worried about the risk of disease and put out an order that they be shot on sight. Understandably, CPA staffers thought this was terrible and started keeping the kittens in their trailers, and Halliburton's response was to search the trailers while the staffers were at work, drag the cats out, shoot them, and leave notes in the trailers. In case you didn't think Halliburton was quite horrible enough. There was one thing that Bremer got right, when he was asking Congress for more money to help with reconstruction: We cannot simply pat the Iraqis on the back, tell them they are lucky to be rid of Saddam, and then ask them to go find their place in a global marketplace. To do so would invite economic collapse followed by political extremism. If after coming this far we turn our backs and let Iraq lapse into factional chaos, some new tyranny and terrorism, we will have committed a grave error. Not only will we have left the long-suffering Iraqi people to a future of danger and deprivation, we will have sown the dragon's teeth which will sprout more terrorists and eventually cost more American lives. Well. Mission accomplished. I could go on and on listing the disaster that we made of the occupation, but that's what the book does and it does it quite well, so I'll refrain. Despite all that and how much Imperial Life in the Emerald City agrees with my pre-existing biases, it falls a bit short for me simply because it's all Chandrasekaran's point of view. Everything in the book is either from public sources or from interviews he conducted, and while he admits that some conversations from memory and memory is fallible...well, how sure I can be here? The notes section is pretty small, there's no bibliography, and I'm pretty familiar with how unreliable memory is. I would have preferred more sources even if I realize that it isn't the point of the book, and while that's a \"screw you dog, you aren't a cat\" criticism, it nonetheless hurt the book for me. Otherwise it's great, for values of great that involve massive corruption, a transfer of money from the American taxpayer to Bushite-connected corporations, destroying a country and laying the seeds for sectarian violence and terrorism, and showing that Republicans can't govern other countries either. ...more In my opinion, this book should have won a Pulitzer. I had not realized how much my impressions about the failures of the Iraq war and attempts at reconstruction were the product of my own misunderstanding of what the Bush administration and the Cheney administration were trying to achieve. To be honest, I put off reading this book because it looked like it might be difficult and maybe dry and maddening. So even though I really wanted to know more, I dreaded starting. I couldn't have been more wr In my opinion, this book should have won a Pulitzer. I had not realized how much my impressions about the failures of the Iraq war and attempts at reconstruction were the product of my own misunderstanding of what the Bush administration and the Cheney administration were trying to achieve. To be honest, I put off reading this book because it looked like it might be difficult and maybe dry and maddening. So even though I really wanted to know more, I dreaded starting. I couldn't have been more wrong. The book is a delight to read because Mr. Chandrasekaran's writing is so clear and he knows when to break up dense information with lighter anecdotes. Not a word is wasted or out of place here and the (as the book jacket tells you) hundreds of interviews and internal documents and over a year of reporting from Iraq for the Washington Post really show. The book is thoroughly researched and his sources are thoroughly documented with quotes throughout from all the major players alongside the people who had to implement policy and the Iraqis who had to live with it or circumvent it. This is a book every American should read because it tells us how our taxpayer dollars were squandered to completely destroy this country and then fail to give them anything like a functioning government or nation. What interested me from the very beginning was that Mr. Chandrasekaran was not out to fault us for going into the war. He points out that while there never were weapons of mass destruction to justify the invasion, Saddam Hussein was an extremely unpopular and destructive leader. His book begins when the initial invasion ends. Instead, he points out a depressing number of decisions that were made that, had Bush's people acted on the advice of experts or even the Iraqis themselves, could have turned things around. There were moments, he feels, when things could have been contained and nation building achieved. From the book pg. 246: \"We missed a great opportunity,\" one of Brahimi's aides told me later. \"But that's the story of the American in Iraq: missed opportunities\" Many of Bush's people (or Cheney's) were chosen on the basis of loyalty to the Republican party first and came in with no knowledge of the work they were expected to do. They tried to use American values instead of respecting Iraqi customs and they tried to do everything at once instead of adjusting expectations to the reality on the ground. They tried to make Iraq all at once into a little America instead of doing practical things that would have made their lives better. There are a number of amazing examples of American officials writing laws about everything from regulating traffic to forming a government as if anyone was going to understand or follow these manuals. From page 273: \"The Americans misunderstood us,\" said Major Raed Kadhim, the senior officer at the Rafidain station. \"We will fight for Iraq. We will not fight for them.\" And page 277: \"We were so busy trying to build a Jeffersonian democracy and a capitalist economy that we neglected the big picture,\" one of Bremer's aides ruefully told me in late May. \"We squandered an enormous opportunity, and we didn't realize it until everything blew up in our faces.\" It didn't help that there were divisions in our government that prevented a unified policy. The Pentagon and the State department and the CIA were all pursuing different goals with different priorities and not communicating with each other. The Americans were increasingly isolated in the Green Zone as the situation in Iraq deteriorated until at last they were forced to congratulate themselves for a job well done and leave before their security was completely breached. Mr. Chandrasekaran's points are simple, beginning with a beautiful quote from T.E. Lawrence: Do not try to do too much with your own hands. Better the Arabs do it tolerably than that you do it perfectly. It is their war, and you are to help them, not to win it for them. Actually, also, under the very odd conditions of Arabia, your practical work will not be as good as, perhaps, you think it is. In the end, our blundering policy emphasized religious differences in a country where they had been suppressed before. We divided them into ethnic categories for governing purposes and buried their in some cases tentative sense of national unity and identity. From page 285: Bremer's approach \"magnified rather than muted the very divisions that so many Iraqis rejected,\" Agresto said. \"The best Iraqis knew that they could not form one country, one democratic country, unless they were somehow able to get these categories behind them and look for leaders who, one way or another, would transcend these divisions. The best Iraqis ... knew this. We didn't.\" In the end, the honest members of the Green Zone knew that they had left the country a mess. From page 289: Within the Green Zone, there was an aching sense of a mission unaccomplished. \"Did we really do what we needed to do? What we promised to do?\" a senior CPA official asked over drinks at the al-Rasheed bar. \"Nobody here believes that.\" Don't think that the book is just an unrelieved catalogue of mistakes and ungodly amounts of money spent to make a country worse. There is a lot of heart and humor in the book. I really enjoyed reading it because it was so easy to read, even though the subject matter was depressing and of course you have to relive all that anger with Bush and Cheney and the rest of them. But it is important to know what Americans have done in the world and to the world because we are judged by that by the world. Ignorance is no excuse. ...more Can't say this was an enjoyable book but I learned a lot. I don't think that author was immune to biases in reporting the story but did keep editorializing to a minimum. I don't think you can be completely impartial after living and breathing a story like this. The author was rational and fact-based. What I got from the book: the Iraqi occupation was an abysmal shitshow (my words. NOT the author's).<---C>Rajiv Chandrasekaran</---C>", "Title": "Imperial Life in the Emerald City: Inside Iraq's Green Zone"},
