{"Comments": "I actually had a massive struggle to be-star this book in an appropriate manner. I think it's one of the first times I've ever really cursed GoodRead's refusals to allow half stars because whilst this wasn't QUITE a four star read, it was definitely more than a three. In fact, I really want to give it four stars just on principle.<---F> I might</---F>... But, no, that would compromise my ethics. And that's like Spiderman deciding to turn into a giant, flying douche evil. It's just WRONG. Nobody wants to see that. I actually had a massive struggle to be-star this book in an appropriate manner. I think it's one of the first times I've ever really cursed GoodRead's refusals to allow half stars because whilst this wasn't QUITE a four star read, it was definitely more than a three. In fact, I really want to give it four stars just on principle. I might... But, no, that would compromise my ethics. And that's like Spiderman deciding to turn into a giant, flying douche evil. It's just WRONG. Nobody wants to see that... <+++>Raised by Wolves</+++> is rather predictably about a human girl, Bryn who is... raised by wolves. There's nothing particularly original about the portrayal of werewolf society in this novel. It is highly reminiscent of the Mercy Thompson series and some of the descriptions about pack running reeked of Bitten. Bryn gets in trouble when a 'bitten' boy shows up and she and he both discover they were attacked by the same rabid werewolf. OOOOOHHHH! Shit just got real! So Bryn has been a very bad girl and in pack society, this is the perfect opportunity to exercise their rights to BEAT THE SHIT OUT OF A FIFTEEN YEAR OLD GIRL. Until she's sorry. Shit... Now, Bryn knows that she's deserved this and rightfully brought the anger of the pack down onto her little, barely-pubescent shoulders because in a moment of stress she broke a small, tiny, insignificant agreement she had with a leader. She totally knows they're justified and was all ready to start telling people she tripped... repeatedly until she suffered cracked ribs,<---M> seven contusions</---M>, four lacerations, a concussion and passed out for three days. She knows this is perfectly reasonable. Unfortunately, her adopted human-yet-married-to-pack mother packs up Bryn and her four month old twins, flips her husband the bird and moves her family as far away as she possibly can. Now this is where the story really picks up because Bryn starts to take matter into her own hands and I really enjoyed her journey from brainwashed pack member into someone who realizes that maybe it's not okay to beat someone who's not legally allowed to drink - just because she didn't follow every rule perfectly. So why wasn't this book a four star read? Well, for starters, Barnes needs to clean up her prose a little. There were times when I felt like she kind of got lost in writing things that didn't make sense. Often, her writing didn't always convey what I think she felt it would and the climatic end needed to be more powerful in its deliverance. I think Callum gets off really lightly for his actions. I finished the novel really wanting to bash his face in for masking his actions as love. Gross. This isn't sexy! It's hard to know what to think about <+++>Raised by Wolves</+++>. On one hand, I want to read about Bryn when she's much older and no longer easily grounded by everyone within a 10 mile vicinity. I think that would be a more enjoyable story. I think I'd really like to read about her come into her own, but I do need the writing to clear up a little and become smoother and more emotive. I don't know how interested I am in reading more of teenage Bryn though. Other than that, for a YA paranormal read, this wasn't bad at all. And if you don't like it - they may just beat you... for your own good of course... ...more Ugh. I really kind of hated this book. I kept asking myself, \"WHY am I still reading this? Why do I continue to punish myself with more than 400 pages of this crap?\" Then I would remember how the sweet librarian I've become friends with at our library branch recommended the book and had been so sure I'd like it that she put it on hold for me herself. Sigh. I guess I wanted to be able to honestly say that I had finished it. So there's that. The problem with this book was the sheer ridiculousness o Ugh. I really kind of hated this book. I kept asking myself, \"WHY am I still reading this? Why do I continue to punish myself with more than 400 pages of this crap?\" Then I would remember how the sweet librarian I've become friends with at our library branch recommended the book and had been so sure I'd like it that she put it on hold for me herself. Sigh. I guess I wanted to be able to honestly say that I had finished it. So there's that. The problem with this book was the sheer ridiculousness of it. And the stupid characters. And the dumb plot. Oh yeah, and the writing. And the entire, revolting theme that centers around characters owning each other. The uber-annoying 15-year-old Bryn refers to herself as \"his\" in reference to at least three different male characters. Very empowering, eh? Plus, um, did I mention that she's only fifteen?? If the author insisted on placing her protagonist in a creepy co-dependent, soul-mate sort of relationship, couldn't she have made her just a tad older? In fact, everything that happens with and to this character really demands that she be older. I just couldn't ever see her as being only fifteen. The writing itself was a mix of pretentiousness (<---B>\"Hey, look at all the really, big words I know!\"</---B>) and a desperate attempt at dramatic flair (which failed, in case you were wondering). Incessant repetition of short phrases and/or words does not a brilliant author make. Maybe the biggest problem for me was that I just wasn't buying it. Now, I'm all for a great fantasy book that creates a different kind of world. But the concept of that fantasy has to believable within the parameters the author has created. The world of Fablehaven was fantastic; the writing that created The Hunger Games (Hunger Games, #1) was flawless; The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy was ridiculous and hilarious, but still believable within the world(s) that it was created. While I know that none of those books represent reality, at no point while reading them did I roll my eyes and think, \"Yeah, right.\" So, now I just have to figure out what to say to my nice librarian friend. Sigh. I may have to resort to a stealthy drive-by to make sure she's not there when I drop this thing off . . . ...more I am going to write this review in the style of this book. Not Good. Not Mine. I read a review of it and someone said it was \u201cevocative\u201d. No. Not. Bryn was adopted by the alpha werewolf as a child after her parents were murdered in front of her by a rogue werewolf. Rogue. Whispers. No. Although she is human, she was taken in to the pack and raised amongst them. Now, she\u2019s fifteen. A teenager. Love. Hate. Confusion. She thinks that the alpha is keeping something from her and she discovers she is right when sh I am going to write this review in the style of this book. Not Good. Not Mine. I read a review of it and someone said it was \u201cevocative\u201d. No. Not. Bryn was adopted by the alpha werewolf as a child after her parents were murdered in front of her by a rogue werewolf. Rogue. Whispers. No. Although she is human, she was taken in to the pack and raised amongst them. Now, she\u2019s fifteen. A teenager. Love. Hate. Confusion. She thinks that the alpha is keeping something from her and she discovers she is right when she finds a newly turned werewolf in the alpha\u2019s basement. New werewolf. Also, a teen. Rage. Love. Mine. Bryn decides she will stop at nothing to get the answers to her questions about the new werewolf, Chase. Nothing. Stop. No. So, she embarks on a mission to do so. So, was that wearying? I may have exaggerated it a tiny bit, but try reading 418 pages of that and then you tell me how you liked it. I disliked the author\u2019s efforts at creating a sense of impending\u2026something. It felt contrived. Also, I found this book to be too full of werewolf politics. If you are a werewolf fanatic, go out immediately and read it because you\u2019ll probably love it. Then, be even happier to know it\u2019s a series: a series that I won\u2019t be reading. Won\u2019t. ...more Bullet Review: DNF at 22%/Chapter 8 As Young Adult Urban Fantasy werewolf books go, this is certainly not the worst you could do. It feels like Barnes put a lot of work into imagining how the werewolf pack would act, much like Briggs did for Mercy and Armstrong did for Women of the Otherworld. But it's like every other freakin' YA UF book out there. Super Speshul Snowflake who is not worthy of knowing why she must be protected because she has ovaries. Way too much time on stupid, boring crap like w Bullet Review: DNF at 22%/Chapter 8 As Young Adult Urban Fantasy werewolf books go, this is certainly not the worst you could do. It feels like Barnes put a lot of work into imagining how the werewolf pack would act, much like Briggs did for Mercy and Armstrong did for Women of the Otherworld. But it's like every other freakin' YA UF book out there. Super Speshul Snowflake who is not worthy of knowing why she must be protected because she has ovaries. Way too much time on stupid, boring crap like werewolf puppies and all this intricate werewolf business. A mysterious hawt guy that our SSS is attracted to for no gorram reason. Dead parents. Tragic backstory. Oppressive guardians. Virtually no female characters to speak of and certainly none in any position of power (who aren't evil baddies). And then, once again, we have yet another werewolf mythology where female werewolves are stupidly rare - this time, it's almost WORST because it's a painfully stupid pseudoscience explanation that makes no sense (something attacks female embryos but won't attack them if there is a twin male???). If you like werewolves, you could do worse, and at least it doesn't seem to have a royal d-bag, oppressive, abusive boyfriend. And like I said, there seems to be some effort to make the werewolf pack its own unique creation, not just some weird humans. But I would probably recommend either Mercy or Women of the Otherworld over this. It's certainly not worth my time to finish it. And, to make matters worse, the audiobook is awful. Narrator sounds painfully childish and naive and silly. ...more Really this book is a debatable 3.5 stars for me. I may or may not lower that to a three later. Okay, lets get this review started. I have never ever disliked the first half of a book as much as I did Raised by Wolves. And that's saying something if anyone has seen some of my other reviews. First of all, the writing, prose, and flow is downright atrocious. It was like she was leading a one-woman crusade against all long sentences with any kind of flow to them. Come. My brothers!. It is. Time Really this book is a debatable 3.5 stars for me. I may or may not lower that to a three later. Okay, lets get this review started. I have never ever disliked the first half of a book as much as I did Raised by Wolves. And that's saying something if anyone has seen some of my other reviews. First of all, the writing, prose, and flow is downright atrocious. It was like she was leading a one-woman crusade against all long sentences with any kind of flow to them. Come. My brothers!. It is. Time! *soldiers* Yeaaah.aaaaaahhhh.aaaaahh. Woo.Hoo! And almost every other freaking page in the first tenth there were one of these: Blood. Blood-blood-blood-blood-blood... I got bit. I got bit. I got bit. I understand that the girl is scarred for life because of what happened to her parents, and I get that the blood repetition brings it up as a painful memory and something that she will never get rid of, blah blah blah. I just got insanely tired of it after the first ohhh..... 10 times. The I got bit was even worse. Again, the whole I-can't-get-it-off-my-mind thing is just peachy if she remembers it only sometimes, but it eventually becomes a bore and bother when it started interrupting the flow of the story; Bryn would be thinking about something else and all of the sudden that accursed phrase would come back up interrupt it and just threw me for a bit of a loop. Then, when she re-opens her reconnection with the \"pack\" all syntax hell breaks loose. Here are a few examples: Saftey. Warmth. Alpha. Pack. Mine. Mine. Mine. Mine. Fight. Fight. Fight. (this one's a doozy) Fight. Trapped. Blood. SURVIVE. Three bodyguards. No more fights. No more bond. Again, Barnes, I comprehend the fact that wolves aren't exactly on the same level with us intellectually, but Bryn is HUMAN, so I would have appreciated it if she hadn't gone full cave woman for half of the fucking book. That was honestly the reason why I practically skipped over some parts; I just couldn't stand it. Then, there was Bryn herself. Maybe it was just the feminist in me, but I totally agreed with her the first forty pages about not wanting to be owned/controlled by anybody, then after such vehemence about the whole thing; all of the sudden didn't matter to her anymore. I felt like Barnes was writing about a totally different character for the next two-hundred pages. And that person I absolutely hated. She all of a sudden turned into a girl who was just exuding and aura of \"who cares if I am a person and have my own rights? I'm just going to be controlled by a guy and do whatever he tells me to!\" It's not like she was exactly forced into the situation; she chose to do it knowing what would happen. She didn't even question what was right or wrong anymore. Bryn even began using ownership terms; especially with Chase who, may I remind you, she'd only met twice, and it was seriously the worst case of instalove that I've ever seen: Instalove: the one and only way to fall in love instantly with the first random person you meet for no apparent reason; it's guaranteed! I think what was the worst about Bryn in the first 200 pages was when she finally, heaven forbid, made her own choice considering her life and what she wants and that repercussions that happened to her afterwards. Even if her choice is about a guy she barely knows, they beat the hell out of her until she has four cracked ribs, a face that's been punched to a pulp, and is unconscious for THREE days. Then if you couldn't imagine it getting any worse, it does . She blames herself for the whole thing, and the cherry on top is that she thinks she deserves being beaten, and doesn't blame Callum for doing it to her when he's been essentially her \"father\" since she was four. No. Just no. It's not okay to get beaten because you feel like you deserve it, ever, especially if that person is only 15. And to be so brainwashed that someone would think they deserved a beating is actually kind of sad. Technically, she wasn't even a wolf, so to do the same ritual of punishment they do to wolves is another layer of ridiculousness. Sigh. The first half of the book was just plain painful. The only character that helped to alleviate this seemingly never-ending pain was Ali. God, was she ever awesome. First, she survives a birth that, apparently, not many human mothers survive, and she lived and had twins. When her husband goes to slap her after defying \"the Alpha\" *gag* AND he brings back Bryn beaten up and broken after promising that he wouldn't, she locks her husband in a cage, grabs Bryn and the twins and gets the hell out of there without even looking back once. She knew what was important, what's right to do and what's wrong to do (like beat a 15 year old girl into the ground) and stood up for her beliefs, Alpha or no. I honestly think she's the only reason why I had the will to go on with this book. Oh, and did I mention that Bryn got mad at her because Ali wanted her to live a slight normal and dare I say it, human, life and not hang out with a bunch of sweaty wolves who want to beat her to a pulp? I think this picture will suffice for my feelings: [image error] yeaaahhhhhh Alright, so, if you can get over the first half of the book, it finally begins to pick up the pace and get better. The writing did improve although there was still a lot of those annoying one-word sentences splattered around everywhere. It was actually smooth enough to read. What I really enjoyed was the plot and character changes, especially with Bryn. She finally becomes the character that I saw the first sixty pages, and really takes charge of her life again-and on her own terms, too (again because of Ali forcing her to leave, that awesome chick) Really, it started feeling like an actual story since the first half didn't have much of a plot, or a real objective. I also really liked the addition of Lake. She was badass with her gun (it was pretty funny how much she was obsessed with weapons) but wasn't just merely bad. She had her own problems and concerns that she had to deal with (view spoiler) [ being a female werewolf (which is rare in itself) who probably won't die during childbirth makes her a pretty big asset and she's become a wolfman perv magnet, even at 15 (hide spoiler) ] And I've got to admit, in the dictionary under the words \"creep\" and \"pervert\" his name and face would probably be front and center. To say much about him would kind of ruin the whole suspense, but if you've read or is going to read this book, you'll know what I'm talking about. I kind of like the description or should I say lack of it with how he really looked. I'm going to give Barnes the benefit of the doubt and say that she didn't describe him well on purpose because Bryn couldn't see him as anything other than a monster; to find out he looks like just a normal guy was too much, I mean he killed her parents while she was watching, so she just blanked out his face due to trauma. I also enjoyed the ending; there was no drastic cliffhanger and everything ended pretty smoothly which made me happy. So, in the end, I did like this book; it's not my favorite of all time, but it was okay. Pick this one up if you don't mind verryy rocky beginnings. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 4.5 Stars Raised by Wolves starts off the story with Bryn, who's parents was murdered by a rabid werewolf when she was only four years old. Callum, the alpha werewolf, rescued, adopted and marked her as his own and gave her to Ali to be raised like a daughter. Now a fifteen year old Bryn struggles with where she truly belongs, not a wolf, but more then human, not till she meets a new wolf named Chase does she find a link to her past, connecting her to the future.... I've got to say, I'm mighty imp 4.5 Stars Raised by Wolves starts off the story with Bryn, who's parents was murdered by a rabid werewolf when she was only four years old. Callum, the alpha werewolf, rescued, adopted and marked her as his own and gave her to Ali to be raised like a daughter. Now a fifteen year old Bryn struggles with where she truly belongs, not a wolf, but more then human, not till she meets a new wolf named Chase does she find a link to her past, connecting her to the future.... I've got to say, I'm mighty impressed with this book! It's fascinating, captivating and kept me entertained and intrigued till the very last page. At first it took a bit to get into since it's described with intimate details of Bryn'a predicaments, but I think it was needed to understand the sway of power that the Pack holds which is needed for the full effect of the storyline. And believe me when I say they hold power. But this also lead me to be some what frustrated since I couldn't for the life of me figure out some of the motives behind these characters. Callum was hardest one to understand through out the entire book. I liked him and hated him at the same time. He has such an air of complexity about him that lingers when ever he's in a scene, but in the end I couldn't help but forgive his sins. Bryn is an outstanding character and while I'm still not sure about a few things pertaining to her gifts, I think she handled her new role with confidence and fairness. Her link with Chase was very unusaul and while it was very sweet I'm not sure I'd call it romance, or at least not for this book. It was more like a wave of respect, admiration and affection, but I'm still very puzzled about the why's ? Is it because she was the first 'would be victim'? I guess I just don't understand why she has this overwhelming link to him and why she was able to mark him or him to her? Anyone have an answer, please feel free to fill me in, but overall I still enjoyed there dream like interactions and when there in each others minds, that was pretty amazing stuff. I liked the rest of the characters as well. Devon is a great best friend and I really enjoyed how he cared about Bryn. It felt real and very sweet. Lake was another great role and even the Rabid played evil well. Basically I loved this book. <---A>Jennifer Lynn Barnes</---A> pens a great Werewolf story, very different from what I've read in other books. It's gripping and kept me on my toes and she totally nailed the flavor of dominance in a steady pace that will keep readers in suspense from start to finish. Can't wait to read the sequel and see how thing play out for Bryn and the rest of the Wolves. A Great Read! ...more Simply put: this is the best werewolf YA I've read. (I stayed up to finish it in one blur.) Books about wolves are kind of my \"thing\", I know a lot more about the werewolf genre than I feel comfortable admitting. Like the famous words from Jerry Maguire \"you had me at hello\" well, thats what these books are to me, but obviously replacing the words hello, with wolves. So, I think its safe to say that I was more than a little bit excited to get my hands on a copy of this book. Bryn is 15 years old and is quite literally being raised by a pack of wolves. This is as shoddy as it sounds, bec Books about wolves are kind of my \"thing\", I know a lot more about the werewolf genre than I feel comfortable admitting. Like the famous words from Jerry Maguire \"you had me at hello\" well, thats what these books are to me, but obviously replacing the words hello, with wolves. So, I think its safe to say that I was more than a little bit excited to get my hands on a copy of this book. Bryn is 15 years old and is quite literally being raised by a pack of wolves. This is as shoddy as it sounds, because being the only human in a pack full of wolves means that restrictions and rules are aplenty. Her guardian Callum is overly protective and Bryn hates the fact that just because she's human, she's seen as the weakest link. And then Chase comes onto the scene and it's like lighting a firework, you know it's going to explode, you just don't know when. I loved that Barnes decided to write the book from Bryns perspective because we get a lot of insight of how she copes with pack life, how she manages to deal with the constant power struggles and feelings of inadequacy. It was through Bryn that we get to see the inner workings of pack life, and how she has come to view and respect members of her family that harbour deep resentment at Callum for bringing Bryn into their misdt. I honestly couldn't turn the pages fast enough once Bryn realised that her pack and leader were keeping secrets from her, and I knew she wouldn't give in until she uncovered the truth. Wow, Barnes writes in such a captivating and electrifying way that keeps you on your toes, always second guessing any speculations you may have about the plot line and outcome of the book. The way the characters interacted with each other was endearing and sincere, especially the interactions between Callum and Bryn. At first I resented Callum for the boundries he set Bryn and not letting her have space and freedom, but once you get to know him, I sympathised with his situation and his insistent need to keep Bryn safe no matter the cost or the conseqences of his actions. Bryn, OH BRYN!!! I frackin loved this girl something rotten. She's one of those girls that just doesn't really give a crap about what other people think. She's that girl everyone wants to play truth or dare with because they just know she'd take whatever was thrown at her and give as good as she got. Bryn was fiesty, kick ass and sneaky, but most of all, she was mature, smart AND fierce. She understood why Callum was more strict with her than other members of the pack, but just because she understood it, it didn't mean she was going to keep quiet and let him get away with it. Boy, I love my characters when they have some sass and take no shit. Makes me want to pull out the fist pumping. Raised by Wolves is one of the best books about wolves I ever had the pleasure of reading. It was fast paced, action packed and most importantly, it had one of the most well thought out protagonists to tell us the story. Addictive and engaging, if you don't read this book, then more fool you, because you are seriously missing out. Am I reading the sequel? You bet your ASS I AM!!! ...more Time for a re-read. And it STILL gets 5 stars. This was a fantastic book and the best book that I've read in awhile-one of those that you don't put down until finished and where you've got this excited feeling in the middle of your chest. Written in the first person by a 15-yr old, it has a maturity that is not common in today's youth, but nevertheless believable. While I consider it to be a self-contained story, by the end of the book, there are indications that it could be the 1st in a series. I Time for a re-read. And it STILL gets 5 stars. This was a fantastic book and the best book that I've read in awhile-one of those that you don't put down until finished and where you've got this excited feeling in the middle of your chest. Written in the first person by a 15-yr old, it has a maturity that is not common in today's youth, but nevertheless believable. While I consider it to be a self-contained story, by the end of the book, there are indications that it could be the 1st in a series. I really, really, hope so because Bryn's voice and story have the potential to become an awesome UF series. Many female protagonists in today's UF series really irritate me. Despite her age, Bryn displays a maturity, clear and intelligent thought process and subtle, but very clear bad-assedness that a lot of other UF protagonists lack. She is sarcastic, knows her own mind, and her actions remain true to her character throughout the book. In a glut of UF books that are starting to seem cookie-cutter, this book is a welcome (and VERY good) breath of fresh air. ...more I purchased this book in September and began reading it the same day. I put it down and it took me four months to pick it back up. I was never really interested in it. The first few chapters contained so many wince-worthy things that it automatically felt like one of those books I would have to just endure in order to finish. It improved marginally about a third of the way in and got much better in the last third, but it felt like a lot of time to invest in something that really only evened out I purchased this book in September and began reading it the same day. I put it down and it took me four months to pick it back up. I was never really interested in it. The first few chapters contained so many wince-worthy things that it automatically felt like one of those books I would have to just endure in order to finish. It improved marginally about a third of the way in and got much better in the last third, but it felt like a lot of time to invest in something that really only evened out in the end. The main character's name made me want to kill puppies. <---C>Bronwyn</---C> Clare, plus I believe one too many middle names that got emphasized way too often. It's like Jennifer Barnes never heard of a Mary Sue test and didn't know that the test would have gone off like a firecracker with the sheer crap of the name. Aside from being name-special Bronwyn is one of very few humans allowed to live in a pack of werewolves. Her parents were made snacky-snack by a rabid wolf. (Another pet peeve was the misuse of the word rabid. Just say rogue. The wolf in question did not have rabies, although I suppose it sounds more 'intimidating' than rogue.) Bronwyn was the only survivor of the attack that killed her parents and possibly siblings. Um yeah. She questions whether or not she had siblings when her mother and father died and believes she did, but does nothing to find out for sure or really to reconnect with her past in the slightest. We hear a lot about 'what was done' to her, but she doesn't seem to be grieved by it or haunted even if it was the motivation for 90% of the plot. It was less than impressive as back stories go. You know why Luke Skywalker's motivation for leaving home was powerful to the audience? Because we got to see the abrupt violence of it. A new wolf comes in and through elaborate measures Bronwyn finds out he was attacked by a rabid. We never really learn too much about the new wolf. His name is Chase and he is hot. After three very short meetings, two of which are heavily supervised, Bronwyn does some mystical werewolf bonding to him that makes them just short of mated for life. AWESOME. Seriously, three very short meetings and she risks her life to um touch him because that was important... except it wasn't at all. I didn't like the best friend character. He made poorly dated references to movies and musicals. The voices were annoying. Don't buy the audio version because they were a thousand times worse on there. I alternated between book and audio and the physical reading of the character was slightly easier to bear. Anyway, the book does a lot of meandering around in circles, kind of like a legitimately rabid little woodland creature although nothing as intimidating as a wolf. A rabid chipmunk. The book wanders in circles like a rabid chipmunk. A lot of the circling is pointless and all of Bronwyn's extra big helping of special gets old after a point. I don't recommend it unless you're a hardcore YA Werewolf lover. For all the talk of the author's numerous degrees in the field, much of it felt false and repetitive. Even with my opinions, however, I can see how someone else might like it. There are moments were the writing is pretty good and the plot moves at a clip, but I'm inclined to believe that's an editor more than the author. ...more Why did I wait so long to read this!?! Someone tell me! I love literature about werewolves... or wolves or any other variation thereof. That being said... this novel isn't told from the perspective of a wolf.. or werewolf, or whatever you want to call them, it's told from the perspective from a girl, a human girl. That was indeed as the title implies... raised by wolves. And I loved that about this book. I think being on the outside as Bryn was, was even more insightful than had it been from the Why did I wait so long to read this!?! Someone tell me! I love literature about werewolves... or wolves or any other variation thereof. That being said... this novel isn't told from the perspective of a wolf.. or werewolf, or whatever you want to call them, it's told from the perspective from a girl, a human girl. That was indeed as the title implies... raised by wolves. And I loved that about this book. I think being on the outside as Bryn was, was even more insightful than had it been from the pov of one of the wolf pack members. As a character, I adored Bryn. I loved her stubbornness and her outlook. It was easy to become fully engrossed in this story and vested in its characters because of Bryn. She leaps of the page. Her relationship with Callum, with Ali, Devon... I guess with everyone, was wonderfully written, these characters are so very well fleshed out. As a reader you feel like you are there with Bryn, experiencing what she does. I love books that do that! This story is jammed pack with action... with questions that Bryn wants answered. I can honestly say that I had no idea the ride that Barnes had in store for us, but I'm glad that grabbed a seat! This was a great start to a series which I know I will be devouring. I can't wait to read more about Bryn, and Devon.. and CHASE! This might just be my new favorite werewolf series! ...more I gave up after 10 pages. Until This day my hate for Ya werewolves stories never decreases. I just hate werewolves. Alot. This isn't even a review. This is just about one just significant thing about me. I goddamm hate werewolf books. Die! Die! When Bryn was just four years old her family was attacked by a rabid werewolf, she only survived because of the arrival of Callum and his pack but they weren't in time to save her parents. Despite the fact that Bryn is human Callum adopted her and marked her as a member of the pack for her protection. She has been brought up as one of just a few humans living amongst the werewolves and has never quite felt she belonged. When Bryn finds Chase - a newly turned werewolf - locked in Callum's basemen When Bryn was just four years old her family was attacked by a rabid werewolf, she only survived because of the arrival of Callum and his pack but they weren't in time to save her parents. Despite the fact that Bryn is human Callum adopted her and marked her as a member of the pack for her protection. She has been brought up as one of just a few humans living amongst the werewolves and has never quite felt she belonged. When Bryn finds Chase - a newly turned werewolf - locked in Callum's basement she begins to realise that the pack has been keeping secrets. She is determined to uncover the truth and needs to work with Chase to do that. I'm a huge fan of paranormal stories so have read a lot of books in this genre both adult and YA. I was really looking forward to reading Raised by Wolves but was expecting the story to be similar to others I've read before. I thought I'd seen pretty much everything that could be seen when it came to werewolves but Jennifer Lynn Barnes pulled out all the stops and created a story that had me hooked from the very first page. She has created a captivating story with a first class heroine and plenty of twists that took me completely by surprise. If you're a fan of paranormal stories then this is a must read book, one that I would highly recommend - I'd rate it right up there with Shiver, in fact I think I liked Raised by Wolves even more! Bryn is a fantastic character, as one of the only humans in the pack she is used to being physically weaker than everyone around her. That doesn't mean Bryn is a pushover though - she is a rebel through & through and is constantly pushing the boundaries of the pack rules. She needs to know about her past and about how Chase became a werewolf and will do whatever it takes - including breaking Callum's rules, which will have severe consequences if she is caught - to find out more. Alongside Bryn there is a host of likable and fun characters. I loved Bryn's adopted mother Ali, another human amongst the wolves she is someone else who is prepared to stand up for what she believes in no matter what the cost to herself. She wants to keep Bryn safe and only joined the pack to be able to protect her. I also loved Bryn's friends Devon and Lake, Devon has been Bryn's best friend since she first joined the pack, he is the strongest of the younger werewolves and an alpha in the making. Lake is one of a very few female werewolves and has been brought up by her father away from the rest of the pack, she is very independent and knows how to protect herself. Alongside Devon, Lake looks out for Bryn and wants to help her dig into her past and solve the mystery of where both Bryn and Chase came from. The story is fast paced and has plenty of action and Jennifer Lynn Barnes has created an interesting world with an unusual twist to the werewolf mythology. The story sucks you in and takes you along a roller coaster journey until the very last page. Although the story ended well things have definitely been left open for the next book Trial by Fire and I can't wait to get my hands on it. I'm very much looking forward to reading more of this series and will definitely be looking up some of the author's other books in the meantime. This is definitely a book I would recommend to urban fantasy / paranormal fans. ...more For anyone who picks up Raised by Wolves and is tempted to put it down because of the slow-paced beginning, please keep reading! The novel's heroine fleshes out into a single-minded and determined narrator; Ali, her adoptive mother, an awesome 'mama bear', and the storyline so realistically developed that it is one of the most authentic werewolf novels I have yet to read. Jennifer Lynn Barnes style reminds me of Rachel Vincent and her Shifter series, giving this YA book a harder, more adult edge For anyone who picks up Raised by Wolves and is tempted to put it down because of the slow-paced beginning, please keep reading! The novel's heroine fleshes out into a single-minded and determined narrator; Ali, her adoptive mother, an awesome 'mama bear', and the storyline so realistically developed that it is one of the most authentic werewolf novels I have yet to read. Jennifer Lynn Barnes style reminds me of Rachel Vincent and her Shifter series, giving this YA book a harder, more adult edge than others in its genre. After the first 100 pages the pace picks up, the plot unravels fast and Barnes dishes out some refreshingly original surprises, like Bryn's 'gift'. A very cool addition to the genre. Cannot wait to read Trial by Fire. Off to do so now... ...more I try to write honestly about the books I read and sometimes it doesn't sound like I really do enjoy the book but that isn't the case, so here's my best shot. As a 21 year old who still (not so secretly) loves to read YA fiction I think that \"Raised by Wolves\" deserves a little more attention than some of the garbage out on the bookstore shelves right now. **Reasons why I liked this book: Ms. Barnes (who happens to be close to my age)is very good at engaging the reader. I read this book in one s I try to write honestly about the books I read and sometimes it doesn't sound like I really do enjoy the book but that isn't the case, so here's my best shot. As a 21 year old who still (not so secretly) loves to read YA fiction I think that \"Raised by Wolves\" deserves a little more attention than some of the garbage out on the bookstore shelves right now. **Reasons why I liked this book: Ms. Barnes (who happens to be close to my age)is very good at engaging the reader. I read this book in one sitting and came close to crying a couple of times (but I think that's just because I'm a crybaby). Barnes is very quick to make you like Bryn and cuts quickly into the werewolf world. You instantly like Dev and I personally wanted her to end up with Dev but for everyone who reads the book you know what happens. Other reasons why I like Bryn is that she is resourceful, doesn't let her situation get her down and is all-in-all one tough chick. Especially for a 15 year old. I'm actually quite excited to read the next installment (if there is one). **Reasons why I wish this book had been better: While Barnes does make for a very engaging writer there are a lot of faults with this book. For starters, it takes forever and a day to know what Dev fully looks like and Bryn's own appearance is a rough estimate at best. There is a very (unfortunately) popular series that does this same thing where they describe the love interest over and over but leave the main character as more of a ghost. This is a good device for someone looking to sell books because that means anyone can put themselves in the main characters shoes. It makes for a faster connection for the reader and the bookworld but it's also lazy. (And of course there are the knit-picky things of what does her studio look like besides a garage? What does the high school look like? The inside of Callum's house? Bryn's house? What don't we have a better description of Dev's parents? etc.) My next gripe is that there are a couple of Bryn's catchphrases that are overused. When \"mind bunnies\" was used more than twice in the first 25 pages I got annoyed. A good writer knows not to make cliches too obvious and especially not to overuse key words. A characters catchphrases should be limited but still discernible as their catchphrase (look how quickly \"that's what she said\" got real old real fast). Bryn is 15 (which took a while to figure out) not 25. It takes a real hard life (a lot harder than Bryn's) to have the sort of maturity that Bryn portrays. I think Barnes' mistake here is that she isn't writing with the mindset of a 15 year old (although Bryn's antics and wonderful stubbornness is definitely a hallmark of the teenage years). With the arrival of the character Lake we do see some of the child that Bryn should be but it doesn't excuse the fact that Bryn (who is the consummate survivor) isn't scared shitless by bringing on the Senate and being eventually paired up against Callum. Honestly, what 15 year old is ready to be the head of a pack? Most 15 year old's want to be taken more seriously but that's just a lot of responsibility to just suddenly dump on one person at such a young age. I guess to sum up my meaning: Barnes makes Bryn's acceptance of everything a little too easy. For example, why didn't Bryn become furious at Callum when she learned about the situation with the Rabid? Why wasn't there more conflict concerning that topic? Why didn't we see Bryn struggling more with losing her sense of identity? Yes she accepted Callum's conditions in order to see Chase but there was never a sense of remorse for leaving her old self behind. Also, for as important as Callum is in Bryn's life, why didn't the separation at the end of the book hurt her more? I understood that there was a solid relationship between the two (one that Barnes is careful never to apply a father/daughter relationship to) but I never got the sense of loss. If one of the most important people in your life is suddenly gone and you realize that he could have foretold the majority of the events... why isn't there more of a response? Some might argue it's because of Bryn's maturity but I think it's more of a scapegoat. Lastly, there is the issue of Chase but what would be a story without a little romance? So I'll just let that be. I know it seems like I didn't like this book but I did. If I hadn't liked it I wouldn't have read it in one night. So, even with all of my criticism, please give this book a read. It really is good. ...more WOW!! Have any of you looked at the reviews for this book? Apparently everyone is really REALLY into this book. Children.... this book.... ugs... this book.... sigh.... this book was hard to get through. Seriously. I can't tell you how many times I wanted to put it down, throw it against the wall, or have a bad feeling that if I rolled my eyes up into my head one more time they would stick up in my skull. Okey dokey... Where to start? How about the writing? Well, the main character's name is Bryn a WOW!! Have any of you looked at the reviews for this book? Apparently everyone is really REALLY into this book. Children.... this book.... ugs... this book.... sigh.... this book was hard to get through. Seriously. I can't tell you how many times I wanted to put it down, throw it against the wall, or have a bad feeling that if I rolled my eyes up into my head one more time they would stick up in my skull. Okey dokey... Where to start? How about the writing? Well, the main character's name is Bryn and she is 15 years old. THe writer on the author hand is some whipper snapper who is going to Yale. -- so, with that being said.... The 15 year old at times sounds like a 35 year old. OH! And what is up with writer's now-a-days using the world 'palpable'? It seems to be popping up alll over the place in this book... and in every other book I read lately. Wow... I remember back in 2000-2002 when the word of the year was \"Jaded\" lolz. But curious.... what 15 year old USES that word? I never used it back then. COme to think of it... I never EVER use that word today. When the author had our 15 year old (Bryn) talk all like 'totally!' and 'Yeah!' she chose some words that were just downright eye-rolly. Let's see... my least favorite was the word CHUNKY CHUNKS when she talked about fake vomit. UGS! and then there was the word MIND BUNNIES when I guess she needed some Focus Factor or something. I just didn't dig it. - The Characters - Bryn - She's the main character. Her Mommy and Daddy were killed by a rabid werewolf and she was taken in by the head honcho of a werewolf pack and ummm... raised by wolves. She's all Rough and tough and wants to be her own person and ummm... she bored me. I can't stand it when people go all \"The Crow\" on things and act like they are a bad ass and then fold into the person they are soooo in love with. UGS!! 15 year olds!! They don't act like that. AND!! I think you would kill today's teenager if you made her run 10 miles everyday. LOLZ. I'm just saying :) Devon - Hmms... I hated this character most of all because the author didn't do one little thing... BRING HIM OUT OF THE CLOSET!! Ok... this big bad wolf (15 years old) is into Show Tunes, Belting out Broadway numbers, Quoting Dirty Dancing, Fashion, Plucking his eyebrows, jazz hands, I'm sure if they had cable he'd watch Glee, and Armani. Come on!! Seriously? Really? And they want us to believe that he's straight? Ummms..... hmmms..... Now, I'm not saying that if he's not straight - that that's a bad thing. NOES!! That would be awesome! But bring him out of the closet!! I got sooo sick and tired of having to try to believe that a boy werewolf would trim his eyebrows. Pa-lease!! Lake - She a rough and tough, rootin tootin, gun-toting, mountain living girl werewolf. Ok... there ya go... There's my eyeroll. Callum - Alpha Wolf - I really liked his character. I have to give the author some credit. She did him right ;) Chase - This is how we got the story. HE is what the back cover is about. Chase got bit (as a human) by a rabid and now he's the mysterious stranger in the pack and Bryn is just going ga ga over him. He was also a good character. I especially lovered his wolf (see!! I'm not all negative nancy about this lolz) - Story Line - The plot for this could have gone quicker. Actually, I would have cut like 100 pages out of this. Crazy man!! IT just seemed to drag. I will admit that once you hit Page 200 you'll be glued no matter how many times you eye roll. The mystery of the story (cuz there has to be a mystery) is a good one. And the answer to it is interesting. I just didn't see what all the hype was about. I had a hard time BELIEVING in the characters. LOLZ... but with that being said - after I told my hubz this problem he said - But you don't have a problem in believing in werewolves? - HAHS! Well, of course not!! Everyone knows that werewolves and supes are just as natural as bunnies and foxes in the woods ;) So, kids... I don't recommend this book. I only recommend it if you want to know what all the hype is about. I enjoyed this book about as much as FALLEN. But I would be quite interested in knowing what a 15 year old teeny bopper thinks of this book. I guess I'm still on my search for an awesome girl werewolf story ;) -nothing to howl at - ...more I just finished this book and I loved it. It was an action packed, thrilling read that I had trouble putting down. And when I did I couldn't stop thinking about it. It is about Bryn who watched her parents being brutally killed by a rabid werewolf when she was four. She was saved and taken into a pack by a alpha werewolf named Callum who marked as one of his own and raised her with his pack. Now Bryn is 15 and finds the pack has been keeping a secret from her and while exploring meets Chase. Cha I just finished this book and I loved it. It was an action packed, thrilling read that I had trouble putting down. And when I did I couldn't stop thinking about it. It is about Bryn who watched her parents being brutally killed by a rabid werewolf when she was four. She was saved and taken into a pack by a alpha werewolf named Callum who marked as one of his own and raised her with his pack. Now Bryn is 15 and finds the pack has been keeping a secret from her and while exploring meets Chase. Chase has answers that Bryn needs about her past. And Bryn will stop at nothing to get them. At first it took me a little bit to get into and I found the style of writing a bit confusing but about 100 pages in I fell in love with this book. The story line was different from other werewolf books I've read. I loved the main character Bryn instantly, she was headstrong and fearless. All the characters were great. Chase was a real sweetie. I liked how protective he was of Bryn. Hopefully we will get to know him a little better in the next book. I will warn you though there is one scence in the book that may upset some people. It didn't effect how I felt about this book but enforced how much a fighter Bryn is. Overall, a great start to this series and I can't wait to read the next installment. ...more Quick review: Cover: I like Rating: PG Thumbs Up: 2.5 Overall: A promise that wasn't well delivered Characters: Okay Plot: 15 year old girl somehow saves the day Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Probably Recommend: Maybe Book Boyfriend: Callum & Chase SUMMARY (50 words or less) I wanted to like this book. I hadn\u2019t read the summary, I went in blind. If you ignore all the glaring plot holes, there is an undertow of potential that keeps you sucked in when you\u2019re reaching for perches to get yourself ou Quick review: Cover: I like Rating: PG Thumbs Up: 2.5 Overall: A promise that wasn't well delivered Characters: Okay Plot: 15 year old girl somehow saves the day Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Probably Recommend: Maybe Book Boyfriend: Callum & Chase SUMMARY (50 words or less) I wanted to like this book. I hadn\u2019t read the summary, I went in blind. If you ignore all the glaring plot holes, there is an undertow of potential that keeps you sucked in when you\u2019re reaching for perches to get yourself out. Too bad the plot holes are many. (I have a lot to say about this one. See my full review for explanation) To see my full review and likeness of my book boyfriend, check out my blog post. http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2... Audio Review Eileen Stevens did a decent job of narrating. The acting was good. The voices were okay. All her male voices sounded pretty much the same. Thankfully, her male voice is pretty good. Other than that, I was able to follow along well enough. ...more Awesome! Don't let the three stars fool you (Really, I'm not sure whether to give it three or four. Maybe 3 1/2? Well, the stars don't matter so much. What matters is the book). This was a really, really good book about instinct, freedom, and what it means to be family (or not to be family). It's really an excellent book. Did it completely blow me out of the water? No. Was it fantastic? Yes. Plot : Great. Possibly the best part of this book (and I don't say that often. Normally I'd take characters Awesome! Don't let the three stars fool you (Really, I'm not sure whether to give it three or four. Maybe 3 1/2? Well, the stars don't matter so much. What matters is the book). This was a really, really good book about instinct, freedom, and what it means to be family (or not to be family). It's really an excellent book. Did it completely blow me out of the water? No. Was it fantastic? Yes. Plot : Great. Possibly the best part of this book (and I don't say that often. Normally I'd take characters over plot any day). I loved how every little piece of the story was connected to every other little piece, and how every bit contributed to the final result. And I loved that line at the end...I don't remember the exact quote but it went something like \"change one piece of the puzzle and you change them all\". I also loved the whole concept of a pack, and making your own. AND! Possibly my favorite part, the lesson that no one has to be dominate over anyone, and that everyone is their own person. Oh! And did I mention the mystery plot? Pure awesomeness. ***I can't promise that there won't be spoilers in this next bit*** Main Character : Bryn was tough, strong, and meant well. She had morals galore, and was admirable. She was also fairly ratable, although there were a lot of parts where I had trouble relating to her at all. Then again, maybe I'm just not an overly Bryn-like person. The few complaints I have about her is that she was unrealistically slow to figure a lot of things out, and that her ego was too big for her sometimes. But, it did make her human, I guess, so I shouldn't be complaining. Don't get me wrong, I did really like her. And I loved how she went from the bottom of the pack ladder to the top. Kind of like transforming from a pawn to a queen (I apologize for the chess references, but that's the reference that came to mind). And she was definitely not a doormat. Thank you, Jennifer Lynn Barnes! Other Characters : Let's talk about Chase. I have to admit, I didn't like him very much. Sure, he was sweet and utterly convinced he was in love with Bryn, which was kind of cute. And he was protective, which was kind of cute. But, let's face it, he was pretty two-dimensional. And, despite all the time Bryn spends in his head, I never got a feel for his character. At all. Most book characters you can tell what they're going to act like off-page, or after the book ends, and here I have no idea. Who is Chase? I don't know. He was just kind of....there. Also, even when Bryn is in his head, the reader never gets coherent thoughts. I understand that part of him is a wolf, and that maybe a wolf thinks in one-word sentences, but it didn't help the reader understand him. I just...I don't know. It looks like this is the first in a series, so maybe I'll like him more in the next book. Moving on to my favorite characters: Devon and Lake!!! I related most to Lake out of everyone in this book (related to her loads). Plus, I loved her character. She was tough, but vulnerable and emotional, and it made her a well-rounded character. I also loved the dialogue with Lake in it, because she was witty and smart. And Devon!! *sigh*. I loveloveloved him. How many times in books (or real life, for that matter) do you get a straight guy who makes cultural (and Broadway) references, and can sing and do accents? Not often. But here he is. All crushworthy and (sadly) fictional. I loved him all the same though, and I didn't really understand why Bryn never saw him as anything but her friend (seeing as I would've been seriously crushing if he lived in my town), but I guess he's set up to be more of her brother-figure than anything else. Which makes me hope that he'll end up with Lake (Because they were both kind of oddities in the pack, and could have lots in common. I also want to see more interactions between the two of them in the next book) And then there's Callum. Ah, Callum. Callum who has a \"knack\" and thinks more about the big picture than the people around him. I have to say, I didn't really like Callum either, but I think I could learn to understand him. And as far as minor (or minor-ish) characters go: I loved Ali, Katie, Alex, Keely, Mitch, Maddy, and Lily, and I hated Prancer, Sora (couldn't she have refused an order?), and Shay (and the rest of the Senate for that matter). ***Possible Spoilers over. You can keep reading, now *** Ending : A perfect fit for the book, and I loved how Bryn turned things around from the beginning, and the relation to the title. Writing : Really, really good. Flowed nicely, and kept me interested. I also liked that when Bryn was under the influence of the pack bond, the reader almost couldn't tell, because they're in Bryn's head and Bryn doesn't know. Good writing, definitely good writing. Also, the pack bond allowing the reader (and Bryn) to see into the minds of other characters was a good idea. I haven't read any of her previous books, but I guess now I should. She's a seriously good writer. Cover : Perfect! Do I really need to say more? I love the lighting, the color scheme, the font, the moon, the shadows, and everything. Plus, the girl on the cover looks a lot like how I pictured Bryn. Overall : Really, really good. In fact, I really ought to change that three stars to four (so please, mentally change it in your head). I definitely recommend. If you like werewolves, complicated plots, strong characters, and the downfall of seriously creepy villains, this is the book for you. I highly recommend!!! (Did I mention Werewolves ? Don't you love them?) ...more I\u2019m of two minds about Raised by Wolves . It features a suspenseful plot (especially in the second half) and one really good message, but also includes, possibly by accident, a couple of disturbing messages. Bronwyn \u201cBryn\u201d Clare is a human girl being raised by werewolves. As a little girl, she and her parents were attacked by a feral werewolf, a \u201cRabid.\u201d A pack of \u201cgood\u201d werewolves burst into the house and rescued Bryn but were too late to save her parents. Bryn is now fifteen, and like many teena I\u2019m of two minds about Raised by Wolves . It features a suspenseful plot (especially in the second half) and one really good message, but also includes, possibly by accident, a couple of disturbing messages. Bronwyn \u201cBryn\u201d Clare is a human girl being raised by werewolves. As a little girl, she and her parents were attacked by a feral werewolf, a \u201cRabid.\u201d A pack of \u201cgood\u201d werewolves burst into the house and rescued Bryn but were too late to save her parents. Bryn is now fifteen, and like many teenagers, is chafing at the restrictions placed on her by her adoptive family. This only intensifies when she meets Chase, a cute boy who was Changed by a Rabid and is now in pack custody. Bryn is drawn to him and to the idea that he might be able to tell her more about the attack she survived all those years ago. At about the halfway point of the book, Bryn breaks pack law and is badly abused for it. It was here that I nearly gave up on Raised by Wolves . The problem is not that there\u2019s abuse in the book (though this scene is hard to read); bad things happen to people in real life and in fiction. The problem is that Bryn seems to think it\u2019s a just punishment for her actions. Her human adoptive mother, Ali, uses this as a reason to leave the Pack and take Bryn far away, and I\u2019m in total agreement with Ali: \"The fact that you don\u2019t hate him for this breaks my heart. And if we weren\u2019t leaving because of what they\u2019d done to you, we\u2019d be leaving because the pack has twisted you enough to make you think that it\u2019s okay for someone to treat you that way.\" I did persevere with the book and I\u2019m glad I did. Bryn learns that something horrible is going on and that the werewolf Senate wants to sit by and let it happen. She gathers a few friends \u2014 Chase, plus \u201cmetrosexual werewolf\u201d Devon and weapon-obsessed Lake \u2014 and hatches a plan to stop the atrocity. Bryn really comes into her strength here, and it seemed the book had redeemed itself and that Bryn had realized her abuser wasn\u2019t worthy of the pass she was giving him. I can\u2019t say I like the answer to why some people live when bitten by werewolves and others die; it smacks a little of blaming the victims if they don\u2019t survive. But other than that, the second half is great. Until we get to the ending, and Bryn\u2019s abuser shows up and explains his reasons. It was all part of a master plan, you see. So it\u2019s okay. Yuck. So, Raised by Wolves is, on the one hand, a story about how an underdog becomes a leader and a hero. On the other hand, at times it seems like a story about how abuse is sometimes justified and how anyone who dies in a violent assault is somehow \"lacking.\" The romance aspect doesn\u2019t really work either; we don\u2019t get to know Chase well enough for that. There is literally nothing between Bryn and Chase besides mutual stubbornness and their supernatural bond. Friendships are well-drawn, though; Bryn\u2019s relationships with Devon and Lake are beautiful. I also loved Ali and her kids. Especially Kaitlin. How adorable! Overall, Raised by Wolves isn\u2019t quite up to the level of Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Shiver or Jackson Pearce\u2019s Sisters Red , but you might enjoy it if you liked those books. Just be prepared for some seriously dysfunctional werewolves. ...more A few years ago, I remember watching a cartoon show on the Cartoon Network where the animals are in a trance, and over and over, they repeat \"pretty, pretty, shiny, shiny\" while staring at anything that has major bling to it. At the time, I thought it was pretty funny until I had those four words in my head all day long. It is kind of like when you have a verse from a song in your head and you can't stop singing it. Fast forward to today, \"Survive\", \"Kill\", \"Mine\", (I could list about 20 words fro A few years ago, I remember watching a cartoon show on the Cartoon Network where the animals are in a trance, and over and over, they repeat \"pretty, pretty, shiny, shiny\" while staring at anything that has major bling to it. At the time, I thought it was pretty funny until I had those four words in my head all day long. It is kind of like when you have a verse from a song in your head and you can't stop singing it. Fast forward to today, \"Survive\", \"Kill\", \"Mine\", (I could list about 20 words from the book that were repeated over and over again). Initially the one word sentences were creative. I guess if you want to convey the way a wolf pack thinks, cavemanish (yes I know that is not a word) language is the way to go. But come on, the entire book was like this. After a period time, I felt like I was watching the cartoon show again. I haven't even started on the characters; the main character Bryn was as annoying as her one word sentences. There is no depth to her. The entire first half of the book is about Bryn and what she wants and how she'll go about getting it regardless of the costs and risks to her people. We can't forget about Chase, he's Bryn's instant \"bite me\" boyfriend. I wonder if more teenage guys were bitten in the same manner as Chase (can't tell you that manner or it would be a spoiler), would Bryn have the same weird instant bond? Who knows? I did finish the book and I do admit, the last few chapters were interesting enough that it moved it from a one star to a two star. ...more There have been some amazing wolf book releases lately, that when I bought Raised By Wolves, I held off on reading it right away. That was a mistake, as soon as I opened to page one, Jennifer Lyn Barnes took ahold of me and thrust me into her amazing Wolf world, and didn't let me go until I finished. Raised By Wolves is an in-depth book that not only introduced me to the snarky, won't take no for answer, strong willed, main character Bryn, but it captured me and brought into the amazing world of There have been some amazing wolf book releases lately, that when I bought Raised By Wolves, I held off on reading it right away. That was a mistake, as soon as I opened to page one, Jennifer Lyn Barnes took ahold of me and thrust me into her amazing Wolf world, and didn't let me go until I finished. Raised By Wolves is an in-depth book that not only introduced me to the snarky, won't take no for answer, strong willed, main character Bryn, but it captured me and brought into the amazing world of werewolves. Jennifer's world building and writing style allowed me to get a bird's eye view of what it would be like to live with werewolves. The pack is made up of both wolf pack traditions and human family emotions. There's tight bonds, frustrations, heart ache, love, action and strong unbreakable bonds formed that will forever change the way Bryn's pack has lived for centuries. It's the bond that Bryn has with Chase that that intrigued me the most. Even with feeling some scene towards the end of the book dragged on longer than what I liked, Raised By Wolves is a thrill ride that picked me up, absorbed me into it's story and dropped me off before I wanted it to be over with. Normally I would say the story and characters captivated me, but really it was the world building that captured my attention the most. ...more Sorry, nice try but no...this was just...nope. Not for me. Same problem as with the Shifter series. The main character is a spoiled and selfish brat who endangers herself and the people who care about her by her absolutely stupid actions. The basic idea was good (meaning the secret behind it all etc.) but otherwise I found the story seriously lacking. I couldn't realte to Bryn and I couldn't understand the connection between her and Chase at all. No swooning, no awwing, nothing. Instead I got lo Sorry, nice try but no...this was just...nope. Not for me. Same problem as with the Shifter series. The main character is a spoiled and selfish brat who endangers herself and the people who care about her by her absolutely stupid actions. The basic idea was good (meaning the secret behind it all etc.) but otherwise I found the story seriously lacking. I couldn't realte to Bryn and I couldn't understand the connection between her and Chase at all. No swooning, no awwing, nothing. Instead I got lots of cheesy dialog. Ugh. Still, I liked this better than the first book in the Shifter series and I finished it fairly quickly so here you go: 2.5 stars. ...more How, hot, cute, mesmerising, sweet, and loving is Callum then. I love this alpha, I loved him the moment his name popped up in this book, and I didnt believe for one second he betrayed Bryn. Chase? Yeah ok I love him too but come on, ITS CALLUM. Alpha, leader, hot callum! I loved this book definitley worth a full rating. Cant wait to read the next one! Dont underestimate this book, I did but wow, itll blow your mind! Jennifer Lynn Barnes is one of my favourite writers. She knows how to combine humor, action, romance and the supernatural elements all into one book. Raised by Wolves is no different. It's not a book that I would delve into again but it's good for for a summer read. Wow! This book is another example why I crave all things werewolf. I found the book by accident, in fact it was my husband who picked it up and I instantly knew I had to read it. It quickly became one of those books where you sneak away from company so you can read a few more pages and stay awake all night with matchsticks propping open your eyelids. Life amongst a pack fascinates me and I love being able to watch/read about how each person/wolf interacts with each other according to where they Wow! This book is another example why I crave all things werewolf. I found the book by accident, in fact it was my husband who picked it up and I instantly knew I had to read it. It quickly became one of those books where you sneak away from company so you can read a few more pages and stay awake all night with matchsticks propping open your eyelids. Life amongst a pack fascinates me and I love being able to watch/read about how each person/wolf interacts with each other according to where they fit in the hierarchy. I'm definitely an Alpha girl and I devour any book that lets me learn more about the different layers of their responsibilities. So if you're anything like me, this book is the perfect read. I loved how the author told the story of Bryn, a human girl who was adopted by Callum, an Alpha wolf. I always get this image of Alphas being ruthless, dominating leaders and of course that is definitely one of their necessary roles but in this book, the author also gives the reader a glimpse of a loving, protective, nurturing Alpha. I loved the relationship between Bryn and Callum, of the way she constantly searched for ways to keep her independence from the pack while also showing respect for him. She had spunk and I immediately fell in love with her. She was smart, protective and followed her heart (which is a character trait I look for in my heroines) I have to tell you that of all the men in the story I loved Callum the most and he really appealed to my heart. He was proof that although you might not understand why the people you love make the choices they do, when looking at the big picture, they actually did have your best interest in mind. I recognized how difficult some of Callum's choices were and admire the strength it took him to do it when every instinct told him to protect. It was a really good story, well written and the only thing that threw me was that the author introduced an idea that I'd never thought of before. I'd always read and assumed that to be Alpha you had to actually be a wolf and so it took a little time to accept that there could be alternatives. The new idea added depth to the story and really made the book an amazing read. But that aside I LOVED this book and think it's an excellent addition to the great werewolf books out there. ...more I have waited a long time to read this book, i finally ended up buying it as a PB (kindle sacrilege!) as it was far cheaper that way. I am now glad i waited as i will get to read all three in the series back to back but i think if i had even guessed how amazing it was going to be i would of bought it months ago instead of just wishlisting it on amazon. Cover - I like the colours & the scene. After reading the book I can totally picture bryn as the model & the scene as a scene out of the I have waited a long time to read this book, i finally ended up buying it as a PB (kindle sacrilege!) as it was far cheaper that way. I am now glad i waited as i will get to read all three in the series back to back but i think if i had even guessed how amazing it was going to be i would of bought it months ago instead of just wishlisting it on amazon. Cover - I like the colours & the scene. After reading the book I can totally picture bryn as the model & the scene as a scene out of the book. Favorite Quote - \u201cThere wasn't an in-between for me. I lived at extremes. And maybe I'd die at them too.\u201d The story was mind blowingly fantastical :) I love a wolf story - it is by far my favorite, if it is UF wolves then *ding ding! we have a winner* when it comes to me. I was expecting a lot from this book as i have read its reviews & seen its rating. The book did not disappoint me in the slightest. Since i have read most YA wolf stories that are out you would think that it would blend with the others but no, it stands out like a candle in the dark - a bright shining light of brilliance. It was edited perfectly, i found no faults in the entire book. I loved the characters & the complexity of there relationships. I would recommend this book & i will of course read more in the series (I am almost trying to rush this review so i can start the next book straight away!). Similar themed books i would also recommend are - Shiver Dark Heart Forever Six Moon Summer Finding Sky (to read this review & more like it visit - http://bookprotagonist.blogspot.co.uk/ ) ...more Reviewed by Jennifer Rummel for TeensReadToo.com As a young girl, Bryn lost her parents in a brutal attack. Callum, the alpha of his werewolf pack, brought her into his circle and treated her like a daughter. As the only human in the pack, Bryn has always felt like an outsider. Until a new wolf, Chase, appears. Chase wasn't born a wolf. Bryn instinctively knows that she must meet him. As he's locked away for his own protection by Callum, she goes to Callum for permission to see him. Bryn asks Callu Reviewed by Jennifer Rummel for TeensReadToo.com As a young girl, Bryn lost her parents in a brutal attack. Callum, the alpha of his werewolf pack, brought her into his circle and treated her like a daughter. As the only human in the pack, Bryn has always felt like an outsider. Until a new wolf, Chase, appears. Chase wasn't born a wolf. Bryn instinctively knows that she must meet him. As he's locked away for his own protection by Callum, she goes to Callum for permission to see him. Bryn asks Callum, not as a daughter would ask a father, but as a member asking the Alpha. Therefore, she must abide by his decisions and his rules. He declares that she will be allowed to see Chase if she meets the following conditions: first, she will train until he's satisfied that she can defend herself should the need arise. Second, there will be pack members with her at all times, and these pack members have his authority during the meetings. Third, she must open herself up to the pack bond and become an insider. Finally, she must agree not to attend the next Senate meeting of Alphas. Bryn, annoyed and confused by some of the conditions, agrees to all of his demands. Once she's allowed to meet Chase, she feels a very strong connection to him. She wants to know what happened to allow the change from human to wolf. As far as she knows, nothing like this has ever happened. She won't rest until she uncovers the truth. The truth is twisted in a way that combines her past with her present, and once she gains that knowledge, nothing will stop her from taking charge - not even the Alpha's commands. With a powerful connection between her and Chase, her life will never be the same. Jennifer Lynn Barnes pens an amazing werewolf tale that leaves you breathless for more. Besides the paranormal aspect, RAISED BY WOLVES touches on friendship, loyalty, betrayal, strength, family, and a little romance. It's absolutely perfect, and I can't wait for the sequel. ...more I've been waiting to read this book for awhile so forgive me for reading it a day early, it's my Sept BOM. I gave it 3.5 stars. I have mixed feelings about this book. So I will start with what I liked. The concept was intriguing. Rather than another book about a shifter growing up, this is about a human growing up in a shifter world. Yes, same sort of context but from an entirely different perspective. The writing was.. different. This is both a positive and negative for me. I liked being able to s I've been waiting to read this book for awhile so forgive me for reading it a day early, it's my Sept BOM. I gave it 3.5 stars. I have mixed feelings about this book. So I will start with what I liked. The concept was intriguing. Rather than another book about a shifter growing up, this is about a human growing up in a shifter world. Yes, same sort of context but from an entirely different perspective. The writing was.. different. This is both a positive and negative for me. I liked being able to see the inner thoughts of the wolves and understanding more about the pack hierarchy. The one word sentences became rather repetitive and more than a bit annoying. Yes, we get the picture, Mine, Protect, Pack blah blah. I get it. I also liked the storyline which as it developed and moved past the egocentric Bryn and her \"woe is me\" thought process it actually got damn interesting. You just have to look past the annoyance of Bryn to see the really shiny parts of the story. What I didn't like: Bryn, Bryn, Bryn. She was insensitive, egocentric, selfish, spoiled and a brat. Whew. That's a lot and I'm sure there's more I could probably think of. She is a tiny little ball of all the characteristics I can't stand in people. So she was one point down to begin with, but as the book progressed she just did stupid things for the sake of doing them. She gained a little bit of common sense toward the end, so I forgave her a bit, but not much. As I said before, the repetitive language bugged me after awhile. In the end, it was a good start to a series with some irritating points, but hey there's no perfect book. I will read the next to see where it goes. On a side note, while reading this did anyone get weird flashes of Jeremy from Kelley Armstrong's series? Callan and Jeremy were creepily similar in my mind. ...more http://inbetweenwritingandreading.blo... I\u2019m team wolf. Period. Always have, always will. So when I saw this book in my friend\u2019s shelf I did not hesitate to practically steal it. I. Loved. It. Devoured it, actually. In just one day I was done. Raise by Wolves is different, it\u2019s not your average wolf story, yes there\u2019s some forbidden romance going on but still, different. First, they actually act like a pack of wolves, it all seemed logical, not completely invented and false; they really acted like http://inbetweenwritingandreading.blo... I\u2019m team wolf. Period. Always have, always will. So when I saw this book in my friend\u2019s shelf I did not hesitate to practically steal it. I. Loved. It. Devoured it, actually. In just one day I was done. Raise by Wolves is different, it\u2019s not your average wolf story, yes there\u2019s some forbidden romance going on but still, different. First, they actually act like a pack of wolves, it all seemed logical, not completely invented and false; they really acted like a pack, united and bonded. Second, every character jumped off the page! Seriously, everyone was fascinating. Also, all the situations that Bryn \u2013 main character \u2013 was in, problems with the pack, and her past; and to think that everything, everything was connected at the end. And boy! The end was creepy! . . . I just re-read this last paragraph and realized I just threw a lot of confusing words and never actually said anything xD! Sorry! But it was really good! From being welcomed into the pack, to mysterious boys that become forbidden, beaten up from those you call your family, moving away to escape your everything and meet your hunter, to actually end up haunted and end up in a thin line that can either destroy you, or free yourself and others. Raised by Wolves is a must read wolf book. If you see it, do not hesitate. Read. [image error] ...more", "Title": "Raised by Wolves"},
