{"Comments": "2.5\u2605 From the blurb: \u201cPart thriller, part historical novel.<---F>\u201d I beg to differ</---F>. There is nothing about this that would put it in the category of \u201cthriller.\u201d In my opinion \u201chistorical novel\u201d is stretching it as well. Inspired by historical events might fit. Some reviews and endorsements have also suggested that this could be considered in the same company with To Kill A Mockingbird . Again,<---M> perhaps inspired by</---M>, with scenes and characters mirrored from that treasure of a novel is my takeaway. It was n 2.5\u2605 From the blurb: \u201cPart thriller, part historical novel.\u201d I beg to differ. There is nothing about this that would put it in the category of \u201cthriller.\u201d In my opinion \u201chistorical novel\u201d is stretching it as well. Inspired by historical events might fit. Some reviews and endorsements have also suggested that this could be considered in the same company with To Kill A Mockingbird . Again, perhaps inspired by, with scenes and characters mirrored from that treasure of a novel is my takeaway. It was neither hot nor cold but rather tepid and was about as interesting as it would be to watch Stroud\u2019s sugar beets grow. It took me a week to get through it because there always seemed to be something more compelling to do than read. I can say that sixty-five years after the fact, the portrayal of racial prejudice and fear among the locals when the Japanese are interned in the relocation camp on the outskirts of their home town reflects the climate of fear, concern, and politics with current day refugees and Muslims following 9/11. History somewhat repeating itself fits. ...more I loved this book! I bought a copy of it last summer when the author was signing copies in a little bookstore in Fort Madison, Iowa, and gave it to my wife as a birthday gift. Last week I picked it up at the library on CD to listen to while driving. listening to it was a pleasant suprise. The story begins in 1942 in rural Colorado as Japanese Americans are arriving at an internment camp. The story unfolds through the eyes of a thirteen year old local farm girl. It is a story of the tragedy of wa I loved this book! I bought a copy of it last summer when the author was signing copies in a little bookstore in Fort Madison, Iowa, and gave it to my wife as a birthday gift. Last week I picked it up at the library on CD to listen to while driving. listening to it was a pleasant suprise. The story begins in 1942 in rural Colorado as Japanese Americans are arriving at an internment camp. The story unfolds through the eyes of a thirteen year old local farm girl. It is a story of the tragedy of war, the prejudices that grow out of ignorance, as well as the triumph of standing up for what you beleive. This is not a book that I would have chosen for my self, under normal conditions, but the library's selection of books on CD was rather slim last week so I brought it home. I'm glad I stepped out of my normal comfort zone and listened to it. ...more <---A>Sandra Dallas</---A> is back! I had thoroughly enjoyed Dallas's earlier novels but was sorely disappointed with The Chili Queen so it was with some apprehension that I approached <+++>Tallgrass</+++>. Would she be able to deliver? Deliver she did. Only two or three pages in and I was hooked (<---B>the hallmark of a good book.</---B>) Unlike with some of her previous novels there are no quirky characters here, which is fitting as the subject matter does not warrant it. The central characters are likable. Rennie, the story's na Sandra Dallas is back! I had thoroughly enjoyed Dallas's earlier novels but was sorely disappointed with The Chili Queen so it was with some apprehension that I approached <+++>Tallgrass</+++>. Would she be able to deliver? Deliver she did. Only two or three pages in and I was hooked (the hallmark of a good book.) Unlike with some of her previous novels there are no quirky characters here, which is fitting as the subject matter does not warrant it. The central characters are likable. Rennie, the story's narrator, is tenacious and wise beyond her years yet vulnerable. Her father bears resemblance to Atticus Finch (although, to be fair, having heard him described as Finch-like prior to reading the novel I was predisposed to think of him in this vein and I'm not entirely sure I would have thought of him in this way on my own.) Rennie's mother is a woman of integrity,she is strong, determined, and compassionate. The Japanese interns whom Rennie's family employs are respectable and gracious. the trouble I had was with Dallas's overly black and white depiction of her cast of characters. The evil were so evil with no redeeming qualities to the point where they seemed to be almost caricatures. The same can be said of the Japanese. Though likable, they fit a bit too well into the stereotype of the subservient Asian, calm and sagacious. I envisioned them in a near constant bow (Ahhhh, Daniel san.) The plot is engrossing, though not entirely unpredictable. The ending is a bit abrupt, it does not correspond to the pacing of the rest of the book. I could not help but feel a bit cheated as I was left with several questions unanswered. Additionally, I simply was not ready to leave Ellis, Colorado, not ready to say good-bye to the Stroud family, not ready to return to the twenty-first century. I hate it when good books end! ...more The main character of this book is Rennie, a teenage girl who's family lives next to a Japanese internment camp in southeast Colorado during WWII. I didn't like this book because the characters were so one-dimensional. They were either good guys or bad guys, and no one ever changed or learned anything from the beginning to the end of the story. Of course, Rennie's family are one of only a few families that accept the Japanese into the community, and her family is the first to hire Japanese worke The main character of this book is Rennie, a teenage girl who's family lives next to a Japanese internment camp in southeast Colorado during WWII. I didn't like this book because the characters were so one-dimensional. They were either good guys or bad guys, and no one ever changed or learned anything from the beginning to the end of the story. Of course, Rennie's family are one of only a few families that accept the Japanese into the community, and her family is the first to hire Japanese workers on their farm. And of course, all the Japanese workers are patriotic Americans who are the hardest workers to have ever been employed on the farm. Without any character development, the only thing left to drive the story is over-the-top drama. Here are some of my favorites: 1. Rennie's grandma has alzheimers. 2. Her mother has a heart condition. 3. Her brother is captured by the Germans. 4. Her sister gets pregnant and moves to Denver so she can give the child up for adoption and no one in town will know she is \"wild\". 5. Her best friend's father is a morphine addict who beats his wife and daughter. 6. Her other friend is found raped and murdered and everyone in town blames the Japanese, but her friend's brother-in-law is guilty of the crime. 7. When her mother's heart condition worsens they hire a young Japanese woman named Daisy to help with household chores. Daisy is raped by the same man who impregnated Rennie's sister and the rapist then tries to kidnap Daisy's baby after it is born. There is a struggle in Rennie's family's barn and the rapist is killed with a beet knife by Rennie's mother. The sheriff, who is friends with Rennie's family, agrees that it would be a great injustice for Rennie's mother to go to jail for killing a rapist, and agrees to report the death as an accident. The only reason I gave this book two stars instead of one is that I enjoyed the scenes in 1940's Denver, but mostly I feel like I just finished reading the script of a Lifetime Network made-for-TV-movie. ...more A coming of age story set on a farm in Colorado near a Japanese internment camp during World War II -- what's not to like? It had every storyline I enjoy all rolled up into one neat little book. Loved it! I wrote the following while reading _Tallgrass_. Speaking of being disappointed, I'm trying to get through _Tallgrass_ by Sandra Dallas. I can't believe how the author stretches the book out with descriptions of boring domestic routines which can hold no possible interest for anyone. For example: \"The boys had finished their coffee, and Carl took their cups to the sink, washed them, and put them into the dish drainer... Dad ... standing up and reaching for his plaid wool jacket on a hook beside t I wrote the following while reading _Tallgrass_. Speaking of being disappointed, I'm trying to get through _Tallgrass_ by Sandra Dallas. I can't believe how the author stretches the book out with descriptions of boring domestic routines which can hold no possible interest for anyone. For example: \"The boys had finished their coffee, and Carl took their cups to the sink, washed them, and put them into the dish drainer... Dad ... standing up and reaching for his plaid wool jacket on a hook beside the door.\" (p.201, lge prnt) How exciting! More: \"Mom put on an apron and stood behind the table, cutting slices of cake and setting them on plates. I took a piece of cake for Granny and led her to a chair, then went back to the table to help Mom.\" (p. 162-3) Thrilling! And if they mention quilting once more, I'll scream! Alright already... they're making quilts! Get past it! LOL Otherwise the book has the potential to be an interesting novel about the internment of the Japanese during WWII, told from the point of view of a young American girl who lives near the location of the internment camp in Colorado. PS-Perhaps the author is trying to describe the flavor of life back during the war years, but the writing itself has no flavor, IMO. PPS-I see that one of the Goodreads reviewers (Kerri) said that the writing was \"very stilted at times\". I agree. See Kerri's review at: ====> http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... . ...more This book was written beautifully through the eyes of a young farm girl, Rennie Stroud. The setting is Ellis, Colorado during World War II and the Japanese incarcerations in internment camps. It discusses the narrow-mindedness, fear, and stereotyping that has repeated itself throughout the history of our country when it comes to the white man's view of other races and cultures. It touches upon subjects of life during war times, the struggle of the small-town American to survive in these times, t This book was written beautifully through the eyes of a young farm girl, Rennie Stroud. The setting is Ellis, Colorado during World War II and the Japanese incarcerations in internment camps. It discusses the narrow-mindedness, fear, and stereotyping that has repeated itself throughout the history of our country when it comes to the white man's view of other races and cultures. It touches upon subjects of life during war times, the struggle of the small-town American to survive in these times, the fear of the loss of a child at war, etc. Read it! I know you'll all enjoy it. I couldn't put it down, read it in a day and a half! ...more I had a difficult time with this book. The premise was interesting - the internment of the Japanese during WWII - and it's one very rarely addressed, unlike racism against blacks or sexism in the Middle East. Probably because it's an episode the U.S. would like to forget - for good reason. Normally, I finish a new book in a few days, and this one took me about that long, though it's short. I had a hard time picking it up. It sat there on my bedside table, and every night I'd settle down and look I had a difficult time with this book. The premise was interesting - the internment of the Japanese during WWII - and it's one very rarely addressed, unlike racism against blacks or sexism in the Middle East. Probably because it's an episode the U.S. would like to forget - for good reason. Normally, I finish a new book in a few days, and this one took me about that long, though it's short. I had a hard time picking it up. It sat there on my bedside table, and every night I'd settle down and look at the pile of books, and I had to force myself to start reading \"Tallgrass.\" Literally force. It took some willpower to postpone \"Sense and Sensibility\" for this dull excuse for a novel. First, the writing was boring. It wasn't too evocative; it wasn't too blunt. It was dull. There wasn't really something to hate about it, but there was certainly nothing to love. Or even like. Rennie, the main character, is supposedly 13, but the way her mind works and the things she does are more like an eight-year-old's thoughts and actions. I wasn't behaving like she does when I was 13. Scout Finch acted like a six or seven-year-old. Rennie Stroud does too, but she's five years older. Something's weird here... Second, there were a lot of things that were taken directly - directly! - out of \"To Kill a Mockingbird.\" A note of advice to all you aspiring Harper Lees: there is only one TKaM. There will only ever be one TKaM. Any attempt to copy, steal, change or manipulate it to fit your own novel will not work. You're going to end up with a very pale, weak, uninteresting plot development which is OBVIOUSLY not your own idea - and instead of being character-driven, it turns into a lame plot device. Sandra Dallas, THIS MEANS YOU. Rennie was quite obviously a fake Scout, but even this isn't as bad as the scene in which Rennie's (upstanding, kind, blah blah blah) father is approached by a gang of men planning on killing/maiming him. R's mother turns up and says things like, \"Hello there, Mr. Smith, how's your wife?\" The men leave. Does this sound familiar? If not, you haven't read TKaM. (Go out and beg, borrow, or steal a copy. Read it. Do it now.) This is so blatantly stolen from Harper Lee that I find myself getting short of breath. Third, there are more than two hundred pages in the middle of the book where NOTHING happened. I skipped a hundred of these and picked up again when it looked like something was finally going to happen, and I understood completely what was going on although I hadn't read a third of the book. The plot doesn't move. Since the characters are really boring, they don't do anything either. Blah. I'm falling asleep just thinking about this boring book. ...more By far one of my favorite Sandra Dallas books (with Buster Midnight's Caf\u00e9), Tallgrass is set during World War II and at its center is the plight of the American Japanese\u2019s being forcibly relocated to internment camps, mostly in the West of the US, after Pearl Harbor. The novel is told through the eyes of Rennie Stroud, a thirteen year old beet-farm girl, who lives near one of these camps in their community of Ellis, Colorado. This one internment camp is called Tallgrass because of the patch of By far one of my favorite Sandra Dallas books (with Buster Midnight's Caf\u00e9), Tallgrass is set during World War II and at its center is the plight of the American Japanese\u2019s being forcibly relocated to internment camps, mostly in the West of the US, after Pearl Harbor. The novel is told through the eyes of Rennie Stroud, a thirteen year old beet-farm girl, who lives near one of these camps in their community of Ellis, Colorado. This one internment camp is called Tallgrass because of the patch of land it was built on. Most of the townspeople are very suspicious and act quite hatefully towards the American Japanese, the newcomers, believing that the government has confined them to the camp for good reason. The Strouds, however, are an open-minded bunch, believing their new neighbors to be nothing more than a group of American citizens suffering unfair treatment at the hands of their government. This does not make the family at all popular with the majority of their fellow townspeople. When a young girl, a friend of Rennie's, is found brutally raped and murdered, most everyone in Ellis blames the Tallgrass camp for bringing this kind of criminal to their little community. This was definitely a highly satisfying read because I enjoyed the characters so much. This heartwarming coming-of-age tale has many elements brought together into a wonderful story - history, prejudice, human decency, friendship, mystery, and, of course, unique characters. These are people you want to know, people you want to read about, people you can cheer for. The Stroud family, especially the parents Mary and Lowell, were my favorite people - they were both hardworking, honest, and good-natured, but also extraordinary people. I have to confess I fell in love with Lowell Stroud from the first moment he opened his mouth. Mom, Mary Stroud was simply astonishly honorable. Sandra Dallas is the master in bringing genuine and compelling characters. A round of applause for Lorelei King the narrator of this audio version. She is truly excellent \u2013 and I\u2019m going to be on the look-out for other narrations by her \u2013 for sure! I absolutely recommend this book, and in a year or two, I want to read the book version. Absolutely! ...more I thoroughly enjoyed the first chapter of Tallgrass. I thought I was getting To Kill A Mockingbird but with innocent Japanese detainees in camps during World War II instead of an innocent black man detained for rape in the south. It had the requisite small town setting with a few violently ignorant residents. It had the naive daughter narrating the story with a do-the-right-thing-even-if-it's-unpopular father as her hero. Like I said, the flavor was there. But the taste was not. I don't know if t I thoroughly enjoyed the first chapter of Tallgrass. I thought I was getting To Kill A Mockingbird but with innocent Japanese detainees in camps during World War II instead of an innocent black man detained for rape in the south. It had the requisite small town setting with a few violently ignorant residents. It had the naive daughter narrating the story with a do-the-right-thing-even-if-it's-unpopular father as her hero. Like I said, the flavor was there. But the taste was not. I don't know if the author, Sandra Dallas, was trying to write a copycat novel or purposely veered off track, but Tallgrass quickly fell far from the Mockingbird tree. The characters were boxy and predictable, the plot stretched too thin with an unrelated murder mystery (was I supposed to suspect the Japanese in the nearby camp? Because I didn't. The author never develops the suspicion for the reader with Rennie as the narrator) and the dialogue feels unnaturally scripted. Mostly, I felt disappointed because Dallas didn't write enough about the Japanese camps. Its existence around the Colorado town of Ellis is placed so far into the background of her story, that having it as a part of the story's setting actually seems unnecessary. Sure, she included a few Japanese characters who came to work for Rennie's father on his sugar beet farm, but they were as boxy as the white folks. Why bother? I wish I hadn't. ...more Wow, this book was pretty bad. Tallgrass is an internment camp in Colorado outside the town of Ellis. A town where everyone knows your name and business. The japanese internment camp has the townsfolk a little worried, but not for the Stroud's. The Stroud's own the local beet farm and soon employ some prisoners from Tallgrass to work the fields. The story is told by Rennie Stroud, a 13 year old girl who is trying to understand the current events surrounding her. Suddenly, Rennie's friend Susan i Wow, this book was pretty bad. Tallgrass is an internment camp in Colorado outside the town of Ellis. A town where everyone knows your name and business. The japanese internment camp has the townsfolk a little worried, but not for the Stroud's. The Stroud's own the local beet farm and soon employ some prisoners from Tallgrass to work the fields. The story is told by Rennie Stroud, a 13 year old girl who is trying to understand the current events surrounding her. Suddenly, Rennie's friend Susan is raped and murdered and the town is blaming the Japanese. While the author tries to give Rennie some, Scout/To Kill a Mockinbird type qualities, she doesn't really succeed. This adult novel starts sounding more and more like a YA book (not like that's a bad thing). This would actually make a nice companion to Farewell to Manzanar, because it gives the perspective of the outside world of the camps. But, this book just really wasn't written well at all. Very stilted at times The patron that borrowed the book before me actually made correction marks. Its a little cheesy, and while it starts to take on a mystery, its pretty obvious. If you want to read a book about this time period in history, Farewell to Manzanar is still my favorite. ...more This novel is an excellent addition to the collection of materials concerning Japanese internment during WWII. Actually, the \"camps\" for Japanese-American citizens were called \"relocation camps.\" The \"internment camps\" were for those considered to be high risk/threat. I love a book where I learn more about a subject, and Tallgrass fits that bill. Tallgrass is a fictional name for a relocation camp in Colorado (they did have an actual camp in that state, Amache). The story centers around a family This novel is an excellent addition to the collection of materials concerning Japanese internment during WWII. Actually, the \"camps\" for Japanese-American citizens were called \"relocation camps.\" The \"internment camps\" were for those considered to be high risk/threat. I love a book where I learn more about a subject, and Tallgrass fits that bill. Tallgrass is a fictional name for a relocation camp in Colorado (they did have an actual camp in that state, Amache). The story centers around a family of beet farmers who become friends with some of the Japanese-Americans of the camp, employing some. The hate and fear of Japanese and Japanese-Americans is demonstrated by many of the residents of the area, but the compassion and trust of other residents gain voice, too. My only criticism of the book is that I think it fell short of presenting more information about camp conditions. I realize that the focus was on life outside of the camp, but there were some missed opportunities to elaborate a bit more on inside the camp. However, Tallgrass deftly portrays a small Colorado town caught up in one of the most infamous parts of our country's history. The characters are well developed, and the storyline is full of little and big truths about people and events. ...more This would make a really good book club book. It\u2019s a fascinating look at the Internment camps, actually more of a look on the people in the towns and how they felt about it; it was nice to find out that some didn't want the camps and that these people should be released because they were American citizens. It\u2019s a sad chapter in the US History but something that we need to look at so it doesn\u2019t happen again especially in this day and age. I enjoyed the characters in this book especially Rennie an This would make a really good book club book. It\u2019s a fascinating look at the Internment camps, actually more of a look on the people in the towns and how they felt about it; it was nice to find out that some didn't want the camps and that these people should be released because they were American citizens. It\u2019s a sad chapter in the US History but something that we need to look at so it doesn\u2019t happen again especially in this day and age. I enjoyed the characters in this book especially Rennie and her family, she was lucky to have great parents who objected to the camps, even when their own son was off at war. This book is also a bit of a coming of age story for Rennie. There is also a mystery added in and I\u2019m sure you can guess who is blamed for the crime. This was my first book by this author but it won\u2019t be my last I really enjoyed her writing style and thought she was a very good storyteller. Lorelei King\u2019s narration was as always spot on, everyone had their own voice and it was easy to differentiate between all the characters. 4 \u00bd Stars ...more The only other book I've read about Japanese detention camps was Corner of Bitter and sweet by Jaime Ford. This book takes place in farmland of Colorado and tells the tale of the farm family that lives near the camp and of the townspeople who are ready to blame the members of the camp for anything and everything that goes wrong. With a sister that has moved to the city, a mother with a heart condition, a classmate who is raped and murdered, and a brother who joins up and is MIA, the girl in this The only other book I've read about Japanese detention camps was Corner of Bitter and sweet by Jaime Ford. This book takes place in farmland of Colorado and tells the tale of the farm family that lives near the camp and of the townspeople who are ready to blame the members of the camp for anything and everything that goes wrong. With a sister that has moved to the city, a mother with a heart condition, a classmate who is raped and murdered, and a brother who joins up and is MIA, the girl in this book has a great deal on her plate but in plucky style she wades through it all... Some of Sandra Dallas' books bend almost to the genre of romance -- this one stands on it's own as historical fiction. It's a good read. ...more Great book, wonderful characters, nicely developed plot and setting, a good look at life during the war from the perspective of a young teenager living in a very rural farm town that happened to have a Japanese detention center. It wasn't always engaging in a way that made me want to keep reading but the characters were all really likable and it was a pleasure to read, slowly. Side benefit: I'd like to get into quilting now. As always, see my comments to see what I actually thought as I read (th Great book, wonderful characters, nicely developed plot and setting, a good look at life during the war from the perspective of a young teenager living in a very rural farm town that happened to have a Japanese detention center. It wasn't always engaging in a way that made me want to keep reading but the characters were all really likable and it was a pleasure to read, slowly. Side benefit: I'd like to get into quilting now. As always, see my comments to see what I actually thought as I read (the cathartic release of an ending often makes me forget what I felt earlier while reading). PS Sometimes it was a bit preachy about women and their relationships but it's pretty easily excused by being the perspective of a young woman just starting to recognize how adults interact. ...more This book takes place during World War II and what happens when a Japanese internment camp is opened in the small town of Ellis, Colorado. The narrator is a thirteen-year-old girl named Rennie Stroud. I thought this book would be more about the camp, but it is really about the people of Ellis and how their prejudices affect their lives. Rennie learns a lot about life and people in this story. It is a very good coming of age story with a lot of emotion and great characters. Author, Sanda Dallas\u2019 This book takes place during World War II and what happens when a Japanese internment camp is opened in the small town of Ellis, Colorado. The narrator is a thirteen-year-old girl named Rennie Stroud. I thought this book would be more about the camp, but it is really about the people of Ellis and how their prejudices affect their lives. Rennie learns a lot about life and people in this story. It is a very good coming of age story with a lot of emotion and great characters. Author, Sanda Dallas\u2019 writing has a lot more depth in this book. She really hit it out of the ballpark. ...more Really good book about the Japanese internment camp during World War II and a colorado town's relationship with them. I love being able to learn about a piece of history while enjoying a good story. Good story about a strong-willed father's bravery to stand up to prejudice and how this impacted his family and those around him. An interesting novel about the Japanese interment camps during WW2. It reflected how one small Colorado town dealt with it. Not always well for the most part with the exception of the main character's family. There was also a murder & typical family dramas for this beet farm family. Although not a YA book, it was told from the point of view of a 13 year old girl which I liked. Tallgrass by Sandra Dallas is the story of a young girl growing up in a small town in Colorado during WWII. A Japanese internment camp is built down the road from her family's farm; her father is a beet farmer and hires several young boys to help with the beet planting/harvesting over several years. Of course, that comes fraught with many issues since quite a few of the townspeople hate the Japanese. I really did like the plot and the characters of this story. There are many characteristics of T Tallgrass by Sandra Dallas is the story of a young girl growing up in a small town in Colorado during WWII. A Japanese internment camp is built down the road from her family's farm; her father is a beet farmer and hires several young boys to help with the beet planting/harvesting over several years. Of course, that comes fraught with many issues since quite a few of the townspeople hate the Japanese. I really did like the plot and the characters of this story. There are many characteristics of To Kill a Mockingbird: strong father/daughter relationship; father takes unpopular stand in the community. There were quite a few subplots that really portrayed the paranoia and frustration of this period in time. All in all, it was a great book! Go Cards! L1C4!! ...more I was going to give this one star, but the ending was like WOW . There were so many plot twists at the end! Not my favorite historical fiction book, but it was okay. TALLGRASS is one of those stories I won't forget. Some authors' books blend all together after a while, but this one really stands out. Sandra Dallas weaves a plot set in a small rural farm town in the early 1940's. It's about one particular family, the Strouds, and their interaction with other townspeople when a Japanese internment camp is built on the edge of town, adjacent to the Stroud's beet farm. Times are rough--they're \"making do\" without the usual amenities of life because of the depres TALLGRASS is one of those stories I won't forget. Some authors' books blend all together after a while, but this one really stands out. Sandra Dallas weaves a plot set in a small rural farm town in the early 1940's. It's about one particular family, the Strouds, and their interaction with other townspeople when a Japanese internment camp is built on the edge of town, adjacent to the Stroud's beet farm. Times are rough--they're \"making do\" without the usual amenities of life because of the depression, but are a tightly knit, loving family.The book is mostly about Rennie, an adolescent girl, the youngest of three children, who becomes the only sibling left at home. Buddy, her brother, goes off to war, and her older sister, Marthalice is living in Denver, \"doing war work\". The characters in this novel are so well-written, and the plot is very smoothly developed, becoming a thriller, when you though you were reading an historical novel. It tells what it was like for this particular family to live so close to the internment camp. Fortunately, they are not prejudiced, and want to involve the internees as workers on their farm. This causes dissention in town, as most of the townspeople are racist, and feel that the internees are \"the enemy\", even though they are Americans, born on American soil. The Stroud family is made of honorable people, though. Even the father's name, \"Loyal\", describes his character. They ask for help from the camp, and take in internees to help the mother, who has a heart condition, and help the father bring in the beet crop, when his regular workers are gone to war.Through their working relationships, they become attached to each of the Japanese/Americans sent to help them. Daisy, the mother's helper is particularly interesting, as she is much more worldy and \"with it\" as far as trends of the day and style. She wears beautiful, \"store bought\" clothing, knows how to jitterbug, and sings along with popular songs on the radio. She seems \"more American\" in some ways, than Rennie, the main character. Throughout the story, there are incidents which occur that foreshadow the sense of fear which builds after a young girl, a friend of Rennie, the main character, is sexually attacked and murdered. When the murderer can't be found, life becomes stressful for not only the Stroud family, who were their neighbors, but for the rest of the town, who blame the internees. The entire story was a pleasure to read, and although the ending solves some of the mysteries in the plot, I was sorry when it was over. I liked the characters so well, that I could have read even more! I would say this book is a classic, on a par with TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD. If you enjoyed that, you will want to read TALLGRASS, by Sandra Dallas. ...more After a friend of mine raved about Tallgrass, by Sandra Dallas, I decided to try the audio version. The reader Lorelei King was terrific. I started this one about 2 weeks ago, but since I do not drive long distances too often it took me until now to finish it. The story is narrated by a young girl named Rennie Stroud, and the story takes place in the early part of 1942, not long after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Rennie tells the story what happened the summer she turned thirteen when the Japanes After a friend of mine raved about Tallgrass, by Sandra Dallas, I decided to try the audio version. The reader Lorelei King was terrific. I started this one about 2 weeks ago, but since I do not drive long distances too often it took me until now to finish it. The story is narrated by a young girl named Rennie Stroud, and the story takes place in the early part of 1942, not long after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Rennie tells the story what happened the summer she turned thirteen when the Japanese came to Ellis, Colorado to live in an internment camp known as Tallgrass. Tallgrass is less than one mile from Rennie's home and the family farm. I loved Rennie. She is a bright and intuitive young girl who spends her days observing the actions of the people around her. Rennie\u2019s father is much more tolerant of the Japanese people at the camps than most of their neighbors. He feels that these people have been stripped of their rights. The neighbors, on the other hand, believe it is wrong that their own sons are off to war while some Japanese roam free. When a young handicapped girl in town is murdered, the neighbors become suspicious of the Japanese camp residents. Rennie's keen eye during the investigation of the murder of the young girl to helps aid those investigating the crime. There are several themes which evolve in this story: family bonds, friendship, loyalty and injustice. Towards the end of the story the mystery of the young girl\u2019s death is uncovered, for a satisfying ending. This is a heart warming coming of age story. I am looking forward to the author\u2019s next novel Prayers for Sale which will soon be released. 4.5/5 stars ...more Set in a Colorado beet farming community that gets a Japanese internment camp, this is To Kill a Mockingbird nearly scene for scene. It\u2019s told by Rennie, a young girl. Her father is a forceful man who has given up fighting, but goes against many in the town by hiring Japanese- Americans to help him on the farm. There\u2019s a mean low- class family who threaten Rennie\u2019s family. The neighbor ladies make cakes for each other, even during the war. Rennie, her Mom (there\u2019s a difference with TKaM, Rennie Set in a Colorado beet farming community that gets a Japanese internment camp, this is To Kill a Mockingbird nearly scene for scene. It\u2019s told by Rennie, a young girl. Her father is a forceful man who has given up fighting, but goes against many in the town by hiring Japanese- Americans to help him on the farm. There\u2019s a mean low- class family who threaten Rennie\u2019s family. The neighbor ladies make cakes for each other, even during the war. Rennie, her Mom (there\u2019s a difference with TKaM, Rennie has a powerful strong Mom) and Dad stop a mob by calling them by their names. There\u2019s two rapes and a rape- murder in this where To Kill a Mockingbird had only the rape accusation, which was plenty damaging to Tom Robinson. That said, I found this unputdownable, or maybe that was the flat characters, too much coffee and foreshadowed happenings. I read this for a library discussion group; I wonder if it will be as obvious to other library patrons. I\u2019ve read so many TKaM- related books over the last two years. My favorite is Erskine\u2019s Mockingbird . For a more orginal telling of the Japanese internment and its consequences on a Japanese - American try No-No Boy . ...more \u201cTallgrass\u201d is set during World War II and focuses on the plight of the American born Japanese that were \"relocated\" to internment camps. It is told through the eyes of a thirteen-year-old farm girl, who lives near one of these camps in the southeastern Colorado. A local handicapped young girl is found brutally murdered. Quickly the town\u2019s population assumes the Japanese must have committed the crime. This murder and the local folk's reaction form the central plot of the book. Sandra Dallas does \u201cTallgrass\u201d is set during World War II and focuses on the plight of the American born Japanese that were \"relocated\" to internment camps. It is told through the eyes of a thirteen-year-old farm girl, who lives near one of these camps in the southeastern Colorado. A local handicapped young girl is found brutally murdered. Quickly the town\u2019s population assumes the Japanese must have committed the crime. This murder and the local folk's reaction form the central plot of the book. Sandra Dallas does a skillful job of bringing her characters, often-bigoted rural residents, to life. She interprets small town attitudes during World War II as well as farm/ranch life in that era accurately. I have a very dear friend who was born while her family members were in a camp in Northern California. While reading this book I continued to learn about the horrors of American families being yanked from their homes, shipped to far away camps and housed like prisoners. The prejudice and ignorance of the American people continues to dumbfound me! I hope that our government and its people will never repeat these offenses against its own citizens and not judge or imprison others based on their family heritage! \u201cTall grass\u201d has many sub-plots that show life as it was in the forties. This book is an excellent read. . . it takes the reader back to an era that on one hand was innocent, but on the other hand was simmering. Sadly, at present our society is just as churning perhaps we need to stop learn learn toleration from Tallgrass experience. ...more Tallgrass of a fiction Japanese internment camp during World War II. Tallgrass, the novel, centers less around the camp itself and more about the small (and small-minded) town that surrounds it. Racism and tension run amok, worsening when a local girl is raped and murdered and most of the townspeople believe a prisoner at the camp must be responsible. Told from the viewpoint of thirteen year old Rennie from her family beet farm, the story has multiple layers and dimensions and all the main chara Tallgrass of a fiction Japanese internment camp during World War II. Tallgrass, the novel, centers less around the camp itself and more about the small (and small-minded) town that surrounds it. Racism and tension run amok, worsening when a local girl is raped and murdered and most of the townspeople believe a prisoner at the camp must be responsible. Told from the viewpoint of thirteen year old Rennie from her family beet farm, the story has multiple layers and dimensions and all the main characters are well-developed. This is a story of the effects of war - not the fighting, bloodshed aspect of war - but the effects on those back home that, try as they might not to be, are changed by it. This book beautifully covers the narrow-minded racism that can spring up and the importance of those who disagree with this mindset to speak out or in the case of Loyal Stroud, Rennie\u2019s father, to lead by example. Fear and stereotypes threaten to overtake the whole town and Loyal won\u2019t be a part of it, despite backlash and shaming thrust upon him by friends and neighbors. It\u2019s not hard to do the right thing. That\u2019s the lesson that is taught to Rennie by the actions of her parents, the Japanese-Americans working on her family\u2019s farm on work release from the internment camp and by her own experiences during the life of the camp in her town. The very end of the book felt a little rushed, like Dallas was up against a deadline that concerned her more than wrapping up the story properly, but the rest is good enough that this is a small issue. ...more In the audio interview, when asked about the point-of-view, Dallas said something along the lines of, \"I didn't want to write from a Japanese perspective because I'm not Japanese and that would be pretentious.\" But she's using these experiences as a backdrop to her narrative and culling a Scout-esque narrator in fairly flawed way. This is first-person omniscient, somehow, with parts of the story revealed that the narrator never observes. Also in the interview, the author is asked why the Japanese In the audio interview, when asked about the point-of-view, Dallas said something along the lines of, \"I didn't want to write from a Japanese perspective because I'm not Japanese and that would be pretentious.\" But she's using these experiences as a backdrop to her narrative and culling a Scout-esque narrator in fairly flawed way. This is first-person omniscient, somehow, with parts of the story revealed that the narrator never observes. Also in the interview, the author is asked why the Japanese were sent to interment camps and not also the Germans. She said something along the lines of, \"I suppose it's because the Japanese did not look like quote normal Americans.\" This is when I had to snap off the audio and send it back to the library (I had finished the book, as it comes before the conversation). For a writer, what a horrible way to phrase this, even with the imaginative quotes. I wonder if this book would have been better off with a young adult audience? But even then, would I recommend it to young adult readers? No. I'd check out Obasan, if one is interested in the Japanese internment experience during World War II. Even Snow Falling on Cedars at least has its gorgeous setting descriptions to make up for its flaws. ...more The Japanese internment camps have always been a puzzle to me and a bit of a black spot in American history. Why just the American citizens who were Japanese, and not the Americans of German heritage? Was it because they were more visible, more \"different\"? Were there more economic gains to be had in terms of the land and business they had to abandon? The government seemed to not see the oddities in taking their possessions, and bundling them behind barbed wire in internment camps, yet expecting The Japanese internment camps have always been a puzzle to me and a bit of a black spot in American history. Why just the American citizens who were Japanese, and not the Americans of German heritage? Was it because they were more visible, more \"different\"? Were there more economic gains to be had in terms of the land and business they had to abandon? The government seemed to not see the oddities in taking their possessions, and bundling them behind barbed wire in internment camps, yet expecting their young men to enlist in the US Military to combat the Germans. This book explored a bit of that, from the perspective of a thirteen year old farm girl in Colorado, who lived in the town near a camp called Tallgrass. Seeing it through her eyes was interesting. The book covers human nature, plus a bit of a mystery, as another young girl is murdered in the town, and tensions rise. One aspect of the book, particularly, fascinated me: the community and fellowship women build in the art of sewing. I see it still today, in various women's groups formed over knitting, quilting, crafting, etc. Art is good, but art in fellowship seems to work extra magic. ...more I enjoyed this book despite the amount of prejudice, hatred and unlikable characters that populated this book! That is because the main characters were so strong and good. There were a ray of sunshine in a dark, troubled time in our history. I have read about the concentration camps for the Japanese and have been appalled that our nation - indivisible, with liberty and justice for all - was so divided! I have always wondered also why there were not camps for people of German descent but there we I enjoyed this book despite the amount of prejudice, hatred and unlikable characters that populated this book! That is because the main characters were so strong and good. There were a ray of sunshine in a dark, troubled time in our history. I have read about the concentration camps for the Japanese and have been appalled that our nation - indivisible, with liberty and justice for all - was so divided! I have always wondered also why there were not camps for people of German descent but there were for people of Japanese descent - sometimes generations removed from being a citizen of Japan. The mystery was not solved until the end, always a plus as well as other incidents added in kept the story moving along. There are times when I worry about what is happening in our country now and I become concerned that we spend too much time defining who we are as a person or a small group - not as a state or as a country... I will be looking for other books by Sandra Dallas ...more I liked this book better than I thought I would. Growing up in Greeley, CO and knowing where a Japanese camp was settled there really made this book hit home. The pace and feel of this book reminded me of Haruf's \"Plainsong\". Unfortunate and very real predicaments and how members of small towns handle them with stride among a typical small town mentality. My favorite character was the mother, Mary. She always did right by herself, her family, and what was right despite the severe prejudices held I liked this book better than I thought I would. Growing up in Greeley, CO and knowing where a Japanese camp was settled there really made this book hit home. The pace and feel of this book reminded me of Haruf's \"Plainsong\". Unfortunate and very real predicaments and how members of small towns handle them with stride among a typical small town mentality. My favorite character was the mother, Mary. She always did right by herself, her family, and what was right despite the severe prejudices held by the people of Ellis, including her own friends. When Rennie asks her mother if she was worried about what her mother's quilting group would think about hiring Japanese workers to help with sugarbeet planting, Mary replies, \"I've never been one to care about what other people think.\" A very personal motto of my own. ...more Not quite as good as The Help, but an insightful look into the encampment of Japanese Americans during WWII and the prejudice that ensues, a subject not talked about much. I enjoyed the weaving of a coming of age story amongst the turmoil of war. The most impressive passage was the kitchen table discussion where Mary offers Rennie her first cup of coffee, a rite of passage I remember vividly from my own pre-teen years. It was humorous while at the same time heart-wrenching in the midst of a disc Not quite as good as The Help, but an insightful look into the encampment of Japanese Americans during WWII and the prejudice that ensues, a subject not talked about much. I enjoyed the weaving of a coming of age story amongst the turmoil of war. The most impressive passage was the kitchen table discussion where Mary offers Rennie her first cup of coffee, a rite of passage I remember vividly from my own pre-teen years. It was humorous while at the same time heart-wrenching in the midst of a discussion regarding an unwanted pregnancy. Isn't that how life is? Experiencing a simple yet complex cup of coffee (everyone likes theirs a certain way), while learning things that forever change your perspective of the world and the people in it. I'm impressed enough to read more from this author. ...more<---C>Sandra Dallas</---C>", "Title": "Tallgrass"},
