{"Comments": "When I first got the chance to review this book, I was excited because my children (<---B>my daughter especially</---B>) loves new books and loves being read to. Once I downloaded the book via Amazon,<---M> and she saw the cover</---M>, she would constantly ask for me to read the book to her. Now, if the cover of the book can lure her in that much, that's a win in my book. So we start reading and the illustrations in the book has her enthralled. She is actively listening and pointing (interacting). I was actually impress When I first got the chance to review this book, I was excited because my children (my daughter especially) loves new books and loves being read to. Once I downloaded the book via Amazon, and she saw the cover, she would constantly ask for me to read the book to her. Now, if the cover of the book can lure her in that much, that's a win in my book. So we start reading and the illustrations in the book has her enthralled. She is actively listening and pointing (interacting). I was actually impressed because as much as she likes being read to, there aren't many books that can hold her attention long enough through to the end. So again, kudos to the illustrator! Now, on to the story. The story itself for me, was a little scattered and short; it just felt like little pieces were missing in between. However, my daughter thoroughly enjoyed it and was asking questions about other people (cultures) and animals so another win in my book. I liked how the author introduced the animals in a fun way but wish they had chosen more exotic animals or animals native to where they were representing in the story (the Amazon). Overall, I thought it was a good book for children and I applaud the intention of the author, ie.<---F>, introducing different cultures and animals</---F>. Great illustrations to accompany a good children's story. ...more The illustrations in Carmi's books are always cute and the books are always very kid friendly. There is absolutely no violence or anything inappropriate in any of her children\u2019s books that my son and I have read together. This one is no different. I think this sort of thing is very important when introducing a young child to new books. It is very easy to read and comprehend for young/beginning readers. It's not a long story which is good because not many young readers will get into a book that is The illustrations in Carmi's books are always cute and the books are always very kid friendly. There is absolutely no violence or anything inappropriate in any of her children\u2019s books that my son and I have read together. This one is no different. I think this sort of thing is very important when introducing a young child to new books. It is very easy to read and comprehend for young/beginning readers. It's not a long story which is good because not many young readers will get into a book that is too long and won't hold their attention. This book is good because the story is about a young girl who magically travels to a new place, meeting new animals and makes new friends. I think that books like this are very entertaining for young children and encourage them to use their own imaginations. My son loved all of the characters in the book. He has read the book over a few times and loves talking about it. He likes to pretend that he\u2019s going on an adventure to the jungle and meeting all kinds of new animals and making discoveries just like little Abigail. Yes, I recommend this book for both boys and girls. ...more Author <---A>Tali Carmi</---A> and illustrator Mindy Liang introduce a wonderful little story about an imaginative and curious little girl who uses her curiosity and imagination and enthusiasm to find a wonderful adventure. Abigail is a curious child whose parents are away on business so she is staying with her grandparents. Her grandpa is a scientist and an inventor who makes wonderful machines. One day when her grandparents were sleeping Abigail crept up to the attic where she found all sorts of things incl Author Tali Carmi and illustrator Mindy Liang introduce a wonderful little story about an imaginative and curious little girl who uses her curiosity and imagination and enthusiasm to find a wonderful adventure. Abigail is a curious child whose parents are away on business so she is staying with her grandparents. Her grandpa is a scientist and an inventor who makes wonderful machines. One day when her grandparents were sleeping Abigail crept up to the attic where she found all sorts of things including a bicycle and an old book containing pictures from places all around the world. On the book's last page was a phrase that if repeated three times the magical tour would begin. Not being able to resist, Abigail soon finds she is flying on the bicycle over the Amazon jungle where she sees the Amazon river, a toucan, a jaguar cub, monkeys, and a little Indian boy named Nuka with whom she shares her bicycle. Nuka take Abigail to his village where she meets all his family and friends, but as it grows dark she must return home on her magic bicycle - where her imaginative grandparents welcome back Abigail and the secrets of her adventure. The marriage of words and images is just right for this nice little story that celebrates curiosity, imagination, and the love of discovering new ideas, new place, new culture, and new people. Grady Harp, February 14 ...more Such an awesomely cute childrens book! My 7 year old daughter absolutely loved it - she laughed and had a blast trying to read it to me. She can't read words yet but she looks at pictures and tries to tell the story - so I read it to her once and she tried to tell me the story the second time :) Her name is Abigail too so that was awesome she thought it was about her! So what is the story about you ask? Well ... it's about a little girl named Abigail who finds a mystical magical bicycle in the g Such an awesomely cute childrens book! My 7 year old daughter absolutely loved it - she laughed and had a blast trying to read it to me. She can't read words yet but she looks at pictures and tries to tell the story - so I read it to her once and she tried to tell me the story the second time :) Her name is Abigail too so that was awesome she thought it was about her! So what is the story about you ask? Well ... it's about a little girl named Abigail who finds a mystical magical bicycle in the garage and it takes her to the Amazon! She has a great adventure and kids get to learn a lot about a new culture all while having fun :) I loved the illustrations, they were bright and colorful, easy to grab a childs attention and hold it. But the story itself is simple to read so it is perfect for little ones. Abigail meets all kinds of new friends on her journey through the Amazon. She meets a toucan, a little Indian boy named Nuka and more - the kids will NOT get bored with this story :) I enjoyed reading it to my daughter as much as she enjoyed listening to it. I love these books - so check out all of the adventure books like \"Where is my Home?\" and more and make your kids happy! ...more Abigail and the Jungle Adventure by Tali Carmi, is a sweet story about Abigail, who finds a magical bike that can take her anywhere in the world. Reading it as an adult, I felt there needed to be a better explanation to how, where, when. My children, however, enjoyed the whimsy and simplicity. I wanted there to be some sort of warning for children to remember not to hop onto a stranger's bike. l know, I'm splitting hairs but the story was still cute. My son,5, LOVED that Abigail was visiting her Abigail and the Jungle Adventure by Tali Carmi, is a sweet story about Abigail, who finds a magical bike that can take her anywhere in the world. Reading it as an adult, I felt there needed to be a better explanation to how, where, when. My children, however, enjoyed the whimsy and simplicity. I wanted there to be some sort of warning for children to remember not to hop onto a stranger's bike. l know, I'm splitting hairs but the story was still cute. My son,5, LOVED that Abigail was visiting her grandparents as he does very often too. He liked that she was allowed to play in the attic and giggled when the grandpa took a nap. I recommend this book for anyone who has a kid that loves to read about far off places, adventures, and fantasy. I wish the title had been more direct and called it the rainforest or the Amazon. I don't recall it being specified. A more specific location with more descriptive clues would be a pleasant bonus. My ll year old didn't seem too impressed, but she is into more advanced reading now. My 10 year old, however enjoyed reading this to her younger siblings over and over ...more I just finished reading this book with my boys, ages 4 and 5. My boys have big personalities and are often hard to engage in stories. They prefer to be playing or acting out their own stories. This story managed to keep their attention for the entire reading! One of their favorite parts was the flying bicycle. My 4 year old has a red bike and is fascinated by the idea that red bikes can fly. The mark of a good children's story is that it either teaches a lesson or sparks the imagination (or both I just finished reading this book with my boys, ages 4 and 5. My boys have big personalities and are often hard to engage in stories. They prefer to be playing or acting out their own stories. This story managed to keep their attention for the entire reading! One of their favorite parts was the flying bicycle. My 4 year old has a red bike and is fascinated by the idea that red bikes can fly. The mark of a good children's story is that it either teaches a lesson or sparks the imagination (or both!) and this story definitely sparked their imaginations. They are currently outside pretending that their bikes can fly and pretending that various parts of our yard are places that Abigail visited. My favorite aspect of this story is the way the author incorporated words that are not normally found in children's stories. The author uses words (such as \"extraordinary\") that the parent will most likely have to explain. This is a fantastic way to build a child's word bank. This book has a lot of wonderful themes that a parent can use to build good pre-reading skills! It's a wonderful story and I'm sure we will be reading it again very soon! ...more This is now one of our new favorite bed time reads, this is a story about a sweet girl visiting her grandparents. While there she goes exploring and discovers a magic bike, this bike takes her around the world to the jungle. This is a great read for bed time, not so short that your child will feel like there isn't enough and it's not so long that you feel it drags on forever. The story is positive the entire way through and ends on a sweet \"note\" - a moment between Abigail and her grandfather. T This is now one of our new favorite bed time reads, this is a story about a sweet girl visiting her grandparents. While there she goes exploring and discovers a magic bike, this bike takes her around the world to the jungle. This is a great read for bed time, not so short that your child will feel like there isn't enough and it's not so long that you feel it drags on forever. The story is positive the entire way through and ends on a sweet \"note\" - a moment between Abigail and her grandfather. This story shows how with a little bit of child innocence and faith you can make it anywhere, even if it's just your child's imagination. The book has great illustrations with great colors, that kept my 2 year old enticed through out the entire book. He loved pointing out things to me- trees, feathers, etc., etc... I will be looking for more books by this author, we are now big fans! ...more I knew this was going to be a good book just from the cover. They say don't judge a book by its cover, with this one you can. It's great! From beginning to end it had my son captivated. It was fun for the whole family! The bright colors of the illustrations were great and the story was easy to read. The story is about a little girl named Abigail that is staying with he grandparents for Christmas. She finds an old bike and book in the basket. The book shows her all these pictures of different pla I knew this was going to be a good book just from the cover. They say don't judge a book by its cover, with this one you can. It's great! From beginning to end it had my son captivated. It was fun for the whole family! The bright colors of the illustrations were great and the story was easy to read. The story is about a little girl named Abigail that is staying with he grandparents for Christmas. She finds an old bike and book in the basket. The book shows her all these pictures of different places around the world and at the end of the book that shes reading it says to think of the place that she wants to go and say the magic words and she will be there. That she does and the next thing she knows she flying over the Amazon Jungle. That's just the beginning of a great adventure! The book goes on about her adventures and keeps your little one interested through the whole book. ...more This is a great book to read to/with your child and is also perfect for school aged children to read on their own. It is a sweet little story about a young girls vivid imagination and her travels. I love how it teaches children the importance of other cultures, having good manners, being polite, friendship and that a little curiosity can open up an array of interesting thoughts. My daughter really enjoyed this book and the cute illustrations. It really helped open her mind and showing her that y This is a great book to read to/with your child and is also perfect for school aged children to read on their own. It is a sweet little story about a young girls vivid imagination and her travels. I love how it teaches children the importance of other cultures, having good manners, being polite, friendship and that a little curiosity can open up an array of interesting thoughts. My daughter really enjoyed this book and the cute illustrations. It really helped open her mind and showing her that you don't always physically need to go places because with your imagination you can go wherever you please. I would recommend this book to anyone with children, it has so many positive messages for a little ones developing mind in a sweet story. ...more Recently I was invited to review the Ebook - Abigail and the Jungle Adventure http://www.amazon.com/childrens-book-... #promotion! This is truly a charming children's story about a little girl's incredibly imaginative descriptive adventures! My son LOVES reading books just like his mommy and my favorite part of every day is cuddling up to him with something exciting and new to share together. This book uses bright and fun color to illustrate the storyline while capturing his attention with all t Recently I was invited to review the Ebook - Abigail and the Jungle Adventure http://www.amazon.com/childrens-book-... #promotion! This is truly a charming children's story about a little girl's incredibly imaginative descriptive adventures! My son LOVES reading books just like his mommy and my favorite part of every day is cuddling up to him with something exciting and new to share together. This book uses bright and fun color to illustrate the storyline while capturing his attention with all the fun discoveries she makes! The part I liked best was it got him involved, guessing what would happen next in all the adventurous places she goes! This is definitely a book you will love reading to your child! ...more This is a well written children's book about a girl named Abigail who finds a magical bicycle in her grandparents' house. The bicycle takes her to the Amazon jungle! The story encourages creativity and imagination but allows children to ask real questions about real cultures. They are able to build upon their knowledge of the world and have fun at the same time! My 4-year-old son was very interested in the entire story. He stopped me many times during the story to ask relevant questions and asked This is a well written children's book about a girl named Abigail who finds a magical bicycle in her grandparents' house. The bicycle takes her to the Amazon jungle! The story encourages creativity and imagination but allows children to ask real questions about real cultures. They are able to build upon their knowledge of the world and have fun at the same time! My 4-year-old son was very interested in the entire story. He stopped me many times during the story to ask relevant questions and asked me to show him the jungle on a world map when we were finished. He was fascinated with the fact that the story was about a real place in the world! The illustrations are very well done and fit in the story perfectly! This book is perfect for children ages 2- 8 and even beyond! ...more <+++>Children's book: Abigail and the Jungle Adventure</+++> (Explore the World kids book collection ages 2-6) [ Illustrated very colorful children's book about Abigail who is able to sepnd time with her grandparents because her parents are on a business trip. She gets to explore every room in their house. Each room has lots of treasures. She finds a magic bike and book and reads about the adventures she might want to go on and sits on the bike... Love that this book allows a child to dream and make their wi <+++>Children's book: Abigail and the Jungle Adventure</+++> (Explore the World kids book collection ages 2-6) [ Illustrated very colorful children's book about Abigail who is able to sepnd time with her grandparents because her parents are on a business trip. She gets to explore every room in their house. Each room has lots of treasures. She finds a magic bike and book and reads about the adventures she might want to go on and sits on the bike... Love that this book allows a child to dream and make their wish come true. She does find a new place and explores it and finds all kinds of new things to learn about. More works of the author are highlighted at the end of the book. ...more Abigail is an adorable little girl who by using her imagination and a little magic goes on a fun Jungle Adventure one day when she stays at her grandparents' house. This story is creative and imaginative as it takes the reader along for the journey as Abigail rides on her little red bicycle to a different place and meets unusual animals and people. The illustrations are colorful and beautiful! This author is a talented storyteller who mixes fun with a little bit of magic to create a delightful an Abigail is an adorable little girl who by using her imagination and a little magic goes on a fun Jungle Adventure one day when she stays at her grandparents' house. This story is creative and imaginative as it takes the reader along for the journey as Abigail rides on her little red bicycle to a different place and meets unusual animals and people. The illustrations are colorful and beautiful! This author is a talented storyteller who mixes fun with a little bit of magic to create a delightful and engaging story that children will love! ...more this was such a cute short childrens story my kids really liked it and my 6 year old read it to my 4 year old son and he just loved he has already asked that we get the other books. It has cute pictures and it lets the kids join right in with Abigail in her Adventure. They loved the pictures and it was a book i could enjoy right along with them and not get bored like so many other kid books. I love that it teaches them about new places. It gets 5 stars from my kiddos and me. I am glad we had a c this was such a cute short childrens story my kids really liked it and my 6 year old read it to my 4 year old son and he just loved he has already asked that we get the other books. It has cute pictures and it lets the kids join right in with Abigail in her Adventure. They loved the pictures and it was a book i could enjoy right along with them and not get bored like so many other kid books. I love that it teaches them about new places. It gets 5 stars from my kiddos and me. I am glad we had a chance to enjoy this book and im sure it will be one of my sons favorites for a long time to come. ...more This is a cute children story about a little girl who discovers a wonderful bike in her grandparents attic - she goes off to the jungle and I am sure she will have more adventures as time goes on - The story is cute and easy to understand - I would say that reading this to your child or having them practice their reading by reading to you would be a great idea for this book - the illustrations are cute and colorful. I would read every other page and have my child read every other page - When Abigail\u2019s parents go on a business trip she spends Christmas with her grandparents. Her grandfather was a scientist and inventor. When her grandparents take a nap, Abigail begins to explore. She slips into the attic. She discovers a magical book and bicycle. She decides to take a trip to the Amazon. Read the book and go on this great adventure with her. The graphics in the book are really nice. They are clear and well illustrated, making the book easily engaging for young kids. The story is short, but it allowed our twins to learn about the Amazon, its animals and the jungle. Toddlers have a very short attention span and it was wise for the author to make the story short, but very educational. I highly recommend this! Another great children book! My son loved this story and so did I. My son doesn't know how to read yet so he goes by the picture. Soon as he saw the flying bicycle he said he wanted to get one too lol I love how easy it was to read this to my son, especially after a long day. Definitely worth reading! This was another great book written for children from Tali Carmi, my children and grand children love the books that she has. We like this book because it has a girl who goes on adventures, something that is hard to find in books but very much needed for the healthy growth of the next generation of women. I received this book for free for my honest opinion. Tali Carmi has done it again! The illustrations in this story are so bright and beautiful! Love the imagination that comes with this story line. It created lots of questions from my little one as we read it and has opened up doors and fostered a curiosity about the animals and people of the Amazon. GREAT job! Abigail and the Jungle Adventure is a story of a girl called Abigail and her adventures in Amazon jungle. This book in told in simple words and illustrations that even young kids can follow. My son loves the book so much and he always asks me to read it to him. I really enjoyed reading this book to my son. We try to read a book every night before bed. I will definitely read this again to him! Great book! The kids enjoyed reading and the additional coloring pages the author emailed as well. Will definitely add any additional books to my kids collection. This is a great bed-time read. My son enjoys pointing to the colors and hearing the sweet story of Abigail and her journey into imagination land. I would highly recommend this book!! This is the first in a series of books featuring a little girl named Abigail. She is curious and adventurous. Abigail is spending Christmas at her grandparents\u2019 house while her parents are on a business trip. Grandpa is a retired scientist and inventor who lives in a big, old house full of interesting places to explore. Abigail takes the opportunity to investigate the home while her grandparents are napping and finds many interesting objects in the attic. One of these is a shiny red bicycle cove This is the first in a series of books featuring a little girl named Abigail. She is curious and adventurous. Abigail is spending Christmas at her grandparents\u2019 house while her parents are on a business trip. Grandpa is a retired scientist and inventor who lives in a big, old house full of interesting places to explore. Abigail takes the opportunity to investigate the home while her grandparents are napping and finds many interesting objects in the attic. One of these is a shiny red bicycle covered with a blanket. Inside its basket, Abigail discovers a antique, dusty book containing pictures of different spots all over the world. On the last page she finds the instructions to think of a place and repeat this sentence three times: \u201cTake me there, let me see, Show me where I want to be!\u201d What young explorer could resist the temptation? Abigail finds herself in the Amazon jungle where she will meet a Toucan, a jaguar, some squirrel monkeys, and a native boy named Nuka. Abigail is a generous young girl and she shares her magical bicycle with her new friend. What will happen next? Will Abigail stay in the jungle, explore a new site or return back to her grandparents? This story is targeted for children aged two through six. The beautiful, bold and colorful illustrations will capture a young child\u2019s imagination and interest. Vocabulary in the text contains enough of a challenge to extend a young child\u2019s vocabulary when read aloud by a parent or caretaker. There is a bonus fun pack with activities offered to all readers. The elements of adventure, magic and repetition are combined and balanced nicely. Little ones will want to read it over and over and surely look forward to more books in the series. ...more While Abigail's parents are on a business trip, Abigail is staying with her grandparents. Yes, that's right, if you have read any of the Abigail Adventure books, these are the same grandparents with a magic bike in their attic! Have your kids every told you about dreams of flying? I think we might all have them. Abigail's adventures always involve flying, flying on her magic bike to exotic places. And she always learns about the place that she is in. This is the first in the Abigail Adventure se While Abigail's parents are on a business trip, Abigail is staying with her grandparents. Yes, that's right, if you have read any of the Abigail Adventure books, these are the same grandparents with a magic bike in their attic! Have your kids every told you about dreams of flying? I think we might all have them. Abigail's adventures always involve flying, flying on her magic bike to exotic places. And she always learns about the place that she is in. This is the first in the Abigail Adventure series. In this book, she finds a book in the basket of the bicycle. It has lots of pictures about places Abigail has never been to. She pages through the book and on the very last page she reads these words. \" Dear Adventurer, the book and bike before you are magical. Just think of the place you want to visit and repeat the following sentences three times: Take me there, let me see, show me where I want to be!\" While in the jungle, she meets a toucan, a jaguar cub, baby squirrel monkeys in a very tall Kapok tree and she makes a new friend, a young Indian boy named Nuka. If you would like your children ages 2-8 to learn about different places and cultures, a very good place to start is with Abigail and the Jungle Adventure. I received the e-book in exchange for an honest review and I am sharing the series in a few weeks with my 5 year old granddaughter. She is a beginning reader and this will be a good series to see her read with help from grandma and grandpa. I wonder if she will want to go in our attic the next time she comes? You can find Abigail and the Jungle Adventure on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/children-books-... ...more it was perfect because he has been learning so much from these books. This one was his second book of their wonderful series and his speech has opened up tremendously since we started this series. As in previous posts, traveling is a big part of our family. While all of our family tracked with our three kids have been stateside, this give him an outlook on what is further in the world to explore. For Isaiah our 2 almost three year old is important. Because he has Craniostynosis and is behind in s it was perfect because he has been learning so much from these books. This one was his second book of their wonderful series and his speech has opened up tremendously since we started this series. As in previous posts, traveling is a big part of our family. While all of our family tracked with our three kids have been stateside, this give him an outlook on what is further in the world to explore. For Isaiah our 2 almost three year old is important. Because he has Craniostynosis and is behind in speech.. This is our time to spend to work on his condition and open up his vocabulary as well as increase his learning. His speech has significantly improved with this series because it has peaked his interest and for this book I'm particular he loved leaning about the jungle and the animals. He made sound effects on every page and it kept him involved to explain to me how he loved this book. I haven't been able to keep my tablet away from him these days because he is recognizing words and reading it to me. For most parents it might not be a big deal but for Isaiah, this is a huge leap. No more tantrums on me not understanding him and no more meltdowns. The communication gap is non existent with this book. And many in this series. I has brought our family closer. ...more This delightful little book tells the story of Abigail and the magical bike she finds at her grandparent\u2019s house. By riding the bike and saying the magic words she ends up in the jungle where she meets a new friend and some of the animals living in the jungle. The book is full of wonderfully colourful illustrations which will catch the eye of any young child. The story is simple, fun and educational too and gives children some basic knowledge of the jungle environment. I liked the idea of a magic This delightful little book tells the story of Abigail and the magical bike she finds at her grandparent\u2019s house. By riding the bike and saying the magic words she ends up in the jungle where she meets a new friend and some of the animals living in the jungle. The book is full of wonderfully colourful illustrations which will catch the eye of any young child. The story is simple, fun and educational too and gives children some basic knowledge of the jungle environment. I liked the idea of a magical bike transporting Abigail to the jungle as that is something most children have and I think will result in a great deal of imaginative play afterwards. I also liked the bonus gifts which will get some of the slightly older children (and I\u2019m sure parents too!) engaged using the computer mouse, a skill which is a necessity these days. This will make a great bedtime story and is, hopefully, not the last one of Abigail\u2019s adventures. ...more My daughter loves to watch different pictures on my computer or tablet. She cannot read yet and loves when I read out to her. Abigail and the jungle adventure is a nice well written book. Perfect for new readers, there are no hard words that they cannot read or understand with the help of adults. The protagonist Abigail goes for an adventure to the Amazon on a magical bike that her scientist/ invertor Granddad made. She meets few cute animals and the natives of the jungle, made new friends and ca My daughter loves to watch different pictures on my computer or tablet. She cannot read yet and loves when I read out to her. Abigail and the jungle adventure is a nice well written book. Perfect for new readers, there are no hard words that they cannot read or understand with the help of adults. The protagonist Abigail goes for an adventure to the Amazon on a magical bike that her scientist/ invertor Granddad made. She meets few cute animals and the natives of the jungle, made new friends and came back home just in time for dinner. My daughter and I both loved the bright colorful pictures of the book; those were the most attractive part of the book to my daughter. I liked the e-book and for the price I would surely buy other e-books from the writer Tali Carmi. ...more Me and my girls have just read Abigail and the Jungle Adventure and as we were reading it it seemed like the begin on the series and I think it was because she just got her red bike and they tell the whole store of how she got it. Even Though we did read the book out of order my girls really love them, they are 5 and 3 years of age. This book is exciting because she went to the jungle.I love that she always knows when to come home so it tell the children that no matter where you are or what you Me and my girls have just read Abigail and the Jungle Adventure and as we were reading it it seemed like the begin on the series and I think it was because she just got her red bike and they tell the whole store of how she got it. Even Though we did read the book out of order my girls really love them, they are 5 and 3 years of age. This book is exciting because she went to the jungle.I love that she always knows when to come home so it tell the children that no matter where you are or what you are doing at a certain time it will be time to go home. You can go get your copy at amazon here is the link http://www.amazon.com/Children-books-... ...more<---C>Tali Carmi</---C>", "Title": "Children's book: Abigail and the Jungle Adventure"},
