{"Comments": "Originally posted on The Book Nympho Quick Summary It was an ordinary day like any other but from the moment when Grace Lawson picks up her pictures from the photomart, her life was never the same.<---F> But I'm getting ahead of myself</---F>. The story actually begins with a surprising admission from a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder. That sets off a chain of events that reaches back 15 years to the present. The mystery Since it is a mystery, I can't tell you much more. What I can say is I was off Originally posted on The Book Nympho Quick Summary It was an ordinary day like any other but from the moment when Grace Lawson picks up her pictures from the photomart, her life was never the same. But I'm getting ahead of myself. The story actually begins with a surprising admission from a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder. That sets off a chain of events that reaches back 15 years to the present. The mystery Since it is a mystery, I can't tell you much more. What I can say is I was off balance for most of the book. There were several storylines in play that I knew had to be connected but couldn't figure out how. And,<---M> with one exception</---M>, I was never sure who the bad guys were. But that one exception was a doozie. This guy was SERIOUSLY scary...I mean bone-chilling frightening. The bottom line I figured out some of this by the end of the book but not a whole lot. It was a little complicated but I didn't have any issues keeping up. Of course, those curveballs at the end were truly out of left field! And the ending still has me pondering. But isn't that typical with a Coben story? I loved this book. ...more Although it was still a decent read much like his other novels, it could be time for Coben to change a little of his formulaic writing. The plot in this novel is so confusing that the last two to three chapters were devoted to explaining it all. It almost felt like the rest of the novel were just fillers. This book was slow for me at first but Man oh man towards the middle I couldn't put it down! All of the connections with the characters and then the twist at the very end made me feel like I was right there with the family. Great book! Coben never fails! Why is it when people hear you enjoy reading that they automatically assume that you read the same books they do? A neighbor reccomended this one. I don't think the friendship will survive. I may have to move. I really enjoyed this book, felt the suspense and action made it a page turner. However, I HATED the reason for all the secrecy, seriously lame, I wanted a big conspiracy and got, they were drunk, he stole my song and we didn't want to lose the trust fund. Blah, unsatisfying. \"The stages of grief: Supposedly the first is denial. That was wrong. The first is just the opposite: Total acceptance. You hear the bad news and you understand exactly what is being said to you. You understand that your lo I really enjoyed this book, felt the suspense and action made it a page turner. However, I HATED the reason for all the secrecy, seriously lame, I wanted a big conspiracy and got, they were drunk, he stole my song and we didn't want to lose the trust fund. Blah, unsatisfying. \"The stages of grief: Supposedly the first is denial. That was wrong. The first is just the opposite: Total acceptance. You hear the bad news and you understand exactly what is being said to you. You understand that your loved one-your spouse, your parent, your child-will never come home, that they are gone for good, that their life is over and that you will never, ever, see them again. You understand that in a flash. Your legs buckle. Your heart gives out. That was the first step-not just acceptance, not just understanding, but total truth. Human beings are not built to withstand that kind of hurt. That then is when the denial begins. Denial floods in quickly, salving the wounds or at least covering them. But there is still that moment, mercifully quick, the real Stage One, when you hear the news and stare into the abyss, and horrible as it is you understand everything.\" ...more Wow! Where has Mr. Coben been all my life? This is my second book to read of his and they have both been heart-pounding and can't-stop-reading!! I will be steadily working my way through his offerings. This thriller starts out with a housewife picking up some photos from a local shop. Little does she know her life will soon explode into chaos. The ramifications of a 'wrong' photo placed in her pack are far-reaching and criss-cross all over the place. You are kept on the edge of your seat as the Wow! Where has Mr. Coben been all my life? This is my second book to read of his and they have both been heart-pounding and can't-stop-reading!! I will be steadily working my way through his offerings. This thriller starts out with a housewife picking up some photos from a local shop. Little does she know her life will soon explode into chaos. The ramifications of a 'wrong' photo placed in her pack are far-reaching and criss-cross all over the place. You are kept on the edge of your seat as the mystery unravels and then kinks back on itself. Just a great book all around. Recommended to any who enjoy fast-paced suspense with plenty of twists. **POSSIBLY SPOILERISH--Some reviewers have complained about info dump towards the end, but personally I saw the breadcrumbs he sprinkled throughout the book. Discerning readers will and won't be offended! I thought the ending was great!! ...more An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one in the pack: a mysterious picture from perhaps twenty years ago, showing four strangers she can\u2019t identify. But there is one face she recognizes\u2014that of her husband, from before she knew him. When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without explanatio An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one in the pack: a mysterious picture from perhaps twenty years ago, showing four strangers she can\u2019t identify. But there is one face she recognizes\u2014that of her husband, from before she knew him. When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without explanation. She doesn\u2019t know where he\u2019s going, or why he\u2019s leaving. Or if he\u2019s ever coming back. Nor does she realize how dangerous the search for him will be. Because there are others interested in both her husband\u2019s past and that photo, including Eric Wu: a fierce, silent killer who will not be stopped from finding his quarry, no matter who or what stands in his way. <---A>Harlan Coben</---A> is like Taco Bell, you know his books will never disappoint and always so good. ...more I decided on this book so I could use it for my A-Z challenge since I love Harlan Coben and I have not yet been disappointed by anything that he wrote. I really enjoyed this book just as much as other ones. I love the writing style and all the mystery. He is just a pleasure to read. Synopsis An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one I decided on this book so I could use it for my A-Z challenge since I love Harlan Coben and I have not yet been disappointed by anything that he wrote. I really enjoyed this book just as much as other ones. I love the writing style and all the mystery. He is just a pleasure to read. Synopsis An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one in the pack: a mysterious picture from perhaps twenty years ago, showing four strangers she can\u2019t identify. But there is one face she recognizes\u2014that of her husband, from before she knew him. When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without explanation. She doesn\u2019t know where he\u2019s going, or why he\u2019s leaving. Or if he\u2019s ever coming back. Nor does she realize how dangerous the search for him will be. Because there are others interested in both her husband\u2019s past and that photo, including Eric Wu: a fierce, silent killer who will not be stopped from finding his quarry, no matter who or what stands in his way. Her world turned upside down, filled with doubts about her herself and marriage, Grace must confront the dark corners of her own tragic past she struggles to learn the truth, find her husband, and save her family. I loved the plotline of this story. I found it to be very interesting and the more I read, the more intriguing it got. This one did seem a bit more complex than other Coben books with all the characters to remember and the separate plotlines as well, but it still flowed pretty well. I only really had one complaint and that is that it seemed just a little unfinished when I reached the end because it ended on questions, questions I had no answers to. Other than that, I loved the story. Lots of great twists in this one too and I loved that. I found a lot of the characters to be very intriguing. They were each developed very well. I also liked how some of them were rather mysterious and remained that way throughout the entire story. They were both relatable and realistic. Grace was probably my favorite character, and she one of the smarter ones. She used her head before making choices. I was on the fence about Carl Vespa who plays a large role in this story and I am still not too sure what to think about him. Overall this was a great story by a very gifted author. I would recommend this one to anyone who likes mystery or anyone who enjoys Coben's writing style. This one is a real treat! ...more Harlan Coben manages to snag your attention within the first few pages of his books and then reels you in like a helpless fish until you are so ensared in the story that there is no way you can put the book down until you reach the end. This book is no exception! I will admit that there were a few parts in this book that were slightly far-fetched, but then again, reality can be a bit far-fetched sometimes. Overall, it was another great suspense story from Coben. If you enjoy his books, you will Harlan Coben manages to snag your attention within the first few pages of his books and then reels you in like a helpless fish until you are so ensared in the story that there is no way you can put the book down until you reach the end. This book is no exception! I will admit that there were a few parts in this book that were slightly far-fetched, but then again, reality can be a bit far-fetched sometimes. Overall, it was another great suspense story from Coben. If you enjoy his books, you will certainly enjoy this one as well. ...more <+++>Just One Look</+++> is the first book I have read of Harlan Coben. I was surprised, and I enjoy <+++>Just One Look</+++>. The twist and turns of the story and the fantastic ending ensure me to read another book from Harlan Coben. Just One Look highlighted the consequence of greed and how it affects everyone. I enjoy in Just One Look having a strong female main character who was determined to find out the truth. Just One Look also makes the readers think about Internet security. I recommend this book. Despite the rather convoluted plot I enjoyed this read immensely. It\u2019s Harlan Coben\u2019s talent for portraying compelling and likable characters that drew me in. I sympathized with Claire and Jack Lawson. There\u2019s no doubt in my mind that the man, the Jack, that Claire knew all this time, as her husband, was a truly loving husband and a cherished father to their two kids, Emma and Max. No doubt at all. I enjoyed the juxtaposition between suburban life and the popping up of questionable characters lik Despite the rather convoluted plot I enjoyed this read immensely. It\u2019s Harlan Coben\u2019s talent for portraying compelling and likable characters that drew me in. I sympathized with Claire and Jack Lawson. There\u2019s no doubt in my mind that the man, the Jack, that Claire knew all this time, as her husband, was a truly loving husband and a cherished father to their two kids, Emma and Max. No doubt at all. I enjoyed the juxtaposition between suburban life and the popping up of questionable characters like Vespa and Cram. I liked Cram, with the crooked teeth, despite his profession, he was so good with the kids. As I mentioned, the plot was a bit far-fetched, and there were many characters that played a role in covering up one bad act, with another, then another. At one point, it served me well to pay attention. If this story proves one thing, is that it goes to show that secrets from the past will always, ALWAYS, catch up with you. ...more I see mixed reviews on this book, but I am of the opinion that it was exceptional. I have come to love this author. His characters are always so unique. The mysteries are so complex, it makes me wonder how he comes up with all this stuff?? Ok, so I quit giving book reports a long time ago, and you can read the synopsis yourself right here on Goodreads so I will forego all of that. What I will say is that typically of Coben, you never see the end coming. Usually all the questions are answered and I see mixed reviews on this book, but I am of the opinion that it was exceptional. I have come to love this author. His characters are always so unique. The mysteries are so complex, it makes me wonder how he comes up with all this stuff?? Ok, so I quit giving book reports a long time ago, and you can read the synopsis yourself right here on Goodreads so I will forego all of that. What I will say is that typically of Coben, you never see the end coming. Usually all the questions are answered and tied up in a neat little bow. There are some of his book that are the exception, and I'm not saying if this is one of them or not. You'll just have to read to find out! It was a quick and easy read. I found it very entertaining. He did not disappoint me based on the quality of work I have read by him in the past. Love this man! ...more This was one of Coben's best books - if not THE best. First it grabs the reader's attention with a prologue in which a killer who is about to be executed admits to an Assistant US Attorney that he killed his sister (<---B>not the crime for which he is being executed</---B>) Then it launches into the main story, when an ordinary middle-class wife and mother discovers a picture of what looks like her husband in a context in which she would not expect to find him. Then the confrontation and then the disappearanc This was one of Coben's best books - if not THE best. First it grabs the reader's attention with a prologue in which a killer who is about to be executed admits to an Assistant US Attorney that he killed his sister (not the crime for which he is being executed) Then it launches into the main story, when an ordinary middle-class wife and mother discovers a picture of what looks like her husband in a context in which she would not expect to find him. Then the confrontation and then the disappearance. I won't say more, but this is a devilishly complicated story with more twists than a corkscrew - each one capping the one before. And a real humdinger at the end! ...more This book seemed to have good reviews, but I didn't enjoy it that much. It moved pretty slow and I felt there were wasted pages. I hate to give bad reviews, but I don't think I would reccommend this one. 3.5 stars However unlikely the premise or convoluted the plot, Harlan Coben guarantees more \"bang for your buck\" than your average thriller author. Although my experience has so far been limited to his more recent material, he has never failed to catch - and hold - my interest, leaving me turning the pages at a rate of knots! Maybe because so many of his novels have focused on the domestic suspense market I find their similarities to the humdrum lives of suburban couples perceptive and enjoy seei 3.5 stars However unlikely the premise or convoluted the plot, Harlan Coben guarantees more \"bang for your buck\" than your average thriller author. Although my experience has so far been limited to his more recent material, he has never failed to catch - and hold - my interest, leaving me turning the pages at a rate of knots! Maybe because so many of his novels have focused on the domestic suspense market I find their similarities to the humdrum lives of suburban couples perceptive and enjoy seeing how the most ordinary and banal lives can be turned on their head. Coben delivers thrills and plot surprises which are the very definition of a rollercoaster ride and has an uncanny eye for portraying how everyday folk cope with new-found pressures and the angst that these occurrences bring. Living in the heart of suburbia and with a comfortable lifestyle, Grace Lawson's memories of her traumatic past seem way behind her. Running from her position as the poster girl who survived the Boston Massacre stampede at a teenage rock concert, she still bears the scars of her past, from a marked limp to her connections with the parents of whose who were not so fortunate. Married to Jack Lawson, a man who she met in the South of France after leaving the U.S. she accepted his story of having distant parents and a sister he was never close to. For Grace, who also had an unwillingness to express the horrors of her past, she accepts Jack at face-value, never probing his own situation too closely. However, that all changes when Grace arrives home with a pack of newly developed photos from the local Photomat which contains what appears to be a decades old photo of her husband and four companions. The photo looks to Grace to date from approximately twenty-years ago and the blonde girl standing beside Jack has a black 'X' scored on her forehead. Less than twenty-four hours after showing the picture to Jack, he denies any knowledge of the people in the image, and ups and vanishes leaving Grace with a hell of a lot of questions. Receiving a phone-call from Jack a day later claiming he \"needs space\", she smells a rat and alerts the police. However, what Grace does not know is that others, including a lethal Korean fighting machine by the name of a Eric Wu, also have an interest in her husbands past, from his sister to a private investigator. After a traumatic past Grace has no option to go on and face what the future holds but as the rose-tinted spectacles fall she is ably assisted by good friend and excellent cybersleuth, Cora Lindley. As they send a spam email asking for identification of the people in the photo, an eventual response comes from a very unexpected source in that of Assistant U.S. Attorney, Scott Duncan. He claims that the blonde girl was his sister, Geri, and she perished in an accidental fire fifteen-years earlier. As Grace probes the strange phone numbers that appear of Jack's phone bill, her concerns skyrocket but his long estranged sister seems only too willing to tell her to wait for his return and trust him. With Jack's old acquaintances untraceable can she risk placing her children, Emma and Max, in jeopardy and pursuing the truth? Part of why Coben's novels always provide such an engrossing read is just how well he fleshes out his entire cast, creating intriguing characters and scenarios where the perfect modern housewife can rub shoulders alongside the hired assassin, the District Attorney and the small-time crooks that make an appearance. The theme here is very much of two worlds colliding and shaking the foundations of a person's life. I can't pretend that this is plain sailing from start to finish, and not everything is immediately transparent as Coben unravels his twists, but it does all lead to a coherent juncture. An unlikely starting point and an even more unlikelier resolution, but since when has that ever got in the way of a romp amongst the suburban neighbourhoods that Coben has made his own? As usual, Coben managed to blindside me and the sucker punch shot into the closing pages left me contented, despite the massive information overload that led up to it. In my opinion this isn't the neatest wrap-up that Coben has delivered, but once again he answered the questions he posed from the off and kept me very satisfied. ...more My mind was all over the place with this one, what was happening? Where did that person go? But what about him? Another awesome delivery from Mr Coben. Man this guy is good. I am never hit and miss with this guy, he always delivers and does so with style. Grace was quite the woman here, trauma survivor and all round pretty cool chick. Quite the sleuth too which is good for her as she is facing an almost impossible task of finding her beloved, and facing many traumatic memories along the way. I lo My mind was all over the place with this one, what was happening? Where did that person go? But what about him? Another awesome delivery from Mr Coben. Man this guy is good. I am never hit and miss with this guy, he always delivers and does so with style. Grace was quite the woman here, trauma survivor and all round pretty cool chick. Quite the sleuth too which is good for her as she is facing an almost impossible task of finding her beloved, and facing many traumatic memories along the way. I love the nuanced bits and pieces he always pops in: \u201cLike every other parent, Grace only had eyes for her own. The rest of the pack, uncharitable as this may sound, was scenery.\u201d Of course this reader also loves an Aussie reference: \u201cShe grabbed a bottle of Lindemans, a decent-yet-cheap Chardonnay from Australia, and popped the cork.\u201d Can I please borrow that phrase?! These little tid bits are nothing in the scheme of things. This author is brilliant, simply brilliant. Last page throw backs, and leaves a reader absolutely satisfied. This man makes a reader satisfied and wanting more. All good things. Nothing sappy in the ending, just good writing and satisfaction everywhere you look. ...more Just read this and it's such a mess in my head right now that I can't even properly review this. The end is incomprehensible, seems like the final twist/explanation was thought of in a rush, badly explained, I totally didn't catch all of it. I appreciate the lack of happy ending (sorry for the spoiler) where it was totally expected, in fact I didn't even predict it should end like this? so, the end was a big fat disappointment. SPOILERS I was looking forward to Cora being the fifth person in the pho Just read this and it's such a mess in my head right now that I can't even properly review this. The end is incomprehensible, seems like the final twist/explanation was thought of in a rush, badly explained, I totally didn't catch all of it. I appreciate the lack of happy ending (sorry for the spoiler) where it was totally expected, in fact I didn't even predict it should end like this? so, the end was a big fat disappointment. SPOILERS I was looking forward to Cora being the fifth person in the photo and planting it in the envelope with other photos, I was thinking the explanation would be something ingenious, not this load of crap, band, song, 21yr olds, security guard, wtf??? and kids kids kids in every Coben book and descriptions of their mother hens, its really annoying from book to book, it makes children go on my nerves even more! this had potential despite discrepancies and many unrealistic details but the end was such a major fail that I have to think seriously about wanting to read Coben ever again. ...more I like Harlan Coben\u2019s writing style. He manages to hook you from the beginning. I like his focus on the characters. He brings ordinary citizens to life in his descriptive story telling. Overall, I liked this book, mainly because of the hook and because of the character development. However, with that being said, I was glad this book wasn\u2019t any longer. There was so much going on. Everyone had a hand in the plot. Everyone had a secret. It was a little busy and a little far-fetched at times. I don\u2019 I like Harlan Coben\u2019s writing style. He manages to hook you from the beginning. I like his focus on the characters. He brings ordinary citizens to life in his descriptive story telling. Overall, I liked this book, mainly because of the hook and because of the character development. However, with that being said, I was glad this book wasn\u2019t any longer. There was so much going on. Everyone had a hand in the plot. Everyone had a secret. It was a little busy and a little far-fetched at times. I don\u2019t think I could have taken one more coincidental twist in this. There were just so many threads thrown in it felt knotted up. Even with all the different threads, he did manage to throw in some zingers that left me saying \u201cgenius\u201d. I am a big fan of the author so I was torn between 3 and 4 stars. So I give the story 3 and the author 4. I have read his later stuff and found from reading this particular book, that he re-purposed a lot of his one-liners and even a character in later books. I guess he figured it worked before, it will work again. ...more This is my first Coben book. It totally held my attention and was a pretty quick read for me. I couldn't wait to figure out who was responsible for Jack's kidnapping. While I felt for Grace who finds herself in a horrible situation, I just didn't really connect with her. She took off on her own search for her husband which seemed unrealistic to me. Especially with two children to protect. I can't imagine myself in that situation but don't think that I would have acted in the same way. Wu was an This is my first Coben book. It totally held my attention and was a pretty quick read for me. I couldn't wait to figure out who was responsible for Jack's kidnapping. While I felt for Grace who finds herself in a horrible situation, I just didn't really connect with her. She took off on her own search for her husband which seemed unrealistic to me. Especially with two children to protect. I can't imagine myself in that situation but don't think that I would have acted in the same way. Wu was an incredibly creepy killer. The details that emerge about his past and his knowledge of the human body are incredible and bizarre. I was more interested in him and his connection to Grace and her family than I was in some of the other aspects of this book. Overall, this book is hard for me to review. While it's not unforgettable, it's extremely convoluted, wordy and full of people. There are so many characters and so many twists that it was sometimes hard to follow. Even when I found out what I'd wanted to know about the whole scenario, I was still confused, yet I still kind of liked the book. I have two other Coben books in my pile that I'm planning to read. I'm just hoping that they are not all this messy. ...more 3-1/2 stars. This book was headed towards a 4-star review due to its infectious page turner style of prose that will be mistaken by no one for literary flair. Strictly meat and potatoes. This writing style effectively accomplishes the goal of all mystery books which is to make readers extremely curious about who dunnit and why they dunnit. As I have found to be the case with quite a few mysteries, the grande finale portion where all/most gets solved and the culprits are revealed was a bit underw 3-1/2 stars. This book was headed towards a 4-star review due to its infectious page turner style of prose that will be mistaken by no one for literary flair. Strictly meat and potatoes. This writing style effectively accomplishes the goal of all mystery books which is to make readers extremely curious about who dunnit and why they dunnit. As I have found to be the case with quite a few mysteries, the grande finale portion where all/most gets solved and the culprits are revealed was a bit underwhelming. Hence I settled on 3-1/2 stars, but GoodReads/Amazon won't give us a half star option for some incomprehensible reason, so 3 stars it is. The explanation section at the end of Just One Look is so choppy and convoluted and hole punched that I stopped caring halfway through it. In other words, I raced to the end only to find myself somewhat dissatisfied by the destination. Nevertheless, I will be sure to give another Harlan Coben book a shot because he is excellent at leaving a trail of crumbs for readers to eagerly devour, and that's what we read mystery novels for - the thrill of the blind chase. ...more This is my first Harlan Coben and I have no idea how I've lived this long without reading one of his books. Well, I can no longer say that since I just finished this one. On the road so fortunately I read (listened to is more accurate) it for hours at a time. I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I even listened in the car for an extra 15 minutes a couple of times. Now that I have been anointed, I won't walk pass a Harlen Coben book again without picking it up. The End No spoilers About 75 p This is my first Harlan Coben and I have no idea how I've lived this long without reading one of his books. Well, I can no longer say that since I just finished this one. On the road so fortunately I read (listened to is more accurate) it for hours at a time. I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. I even listened in the car for an extra 15 minutes a couple of times. Now that I have been anointed, I won't walk pass a Harlen Coben book again without picking it up. The End No spoilers About 75 pages from the end (knowing of course the end is near) I was thinking, 'ho-hummmm' another three star review. Then my three stars gained speed fast and everything I thought about the characters and the storyline was turned up, around, and then down. At that point, a few pages from the end, the three star became a solid four star. Harlan Coben knows how to write a story. In my opinion he can run with the big dogs. ...more I read this ENTIRE book in one long summer day! Coben definitely knows how to keep things moving. Synopsis: An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one in the pack: a mysterious picture from perhaps twenty years ago, showing four strangers she can\u2019t identify. But there is one face she recognizes\u2014that of her husband, from before she knew him. When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without Synopsis: An ordinary snapshot causes a mother\u2019s world to unravel in an instant. After picking up her two young children from school, Grace Lawson looks through a newly developed set of photographs. She finds an odd one in the pack: a mysterious picture from perhaps twenty years ago, showing four strangers she can\u2019t identify. But there is one face she recognizes\u2014that of her husband, from before she knew him. When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without explanation. She doesn\u2019t know where he\u2019s going, or why he\u2019s leaving. Or if he\u2019s ever coming back. Nor does she realize how dangerous the search for him will be. Because there are others interested in both her husband\u2019s past and that photo, including Eric Wu: a fierce, silent killer who will not be stopped from finding his quarry, no matter who or what stands in his way. Her world turned upside down, filled with doubts about her herself and marriage, Grace must confront the dark corners of her own tragic past she struggles to learn the truth, find her husband, and save her family. This was an exciting book up until the last couple of chapters where everything slowed down in order to tie up all the loose ends (and there were many) and spring a surprise twist in the last page or two. This left me a little disappointed with the conclusion of the book, but still worth a 4-star rating. ...more Had to give this a 5 star rating because the twist at the end was fantastic! A fabulous story of long buried secrets, pain, revenge and loss, families entwined somehow in the same mystery, nothing making too much sense - you think! After developing a film Grace finds an old picture amongst the new ones, a picture that she's never seen before but which appears to be of her husband; when she shows her husband he disappears; at the same time she receives a phone call from her past; the two things do Had to give this a 5 star rating because the twist at the end was fantastic! A fabulous story of long buried secrets, pain, revenge and loss, families entwined somehow in the same mystery, nothing making too much sense - you think! After developing a film Grace finds an old picture amongst the new ones, a picture that she's never seen before but which appears to be of her husband; when she shows her husband he disappears; at the same time she receives a phone call from her past; the two things do not seem to be connected but as Grace discovers more and more and gets deeper into the mystery, it would appear that there could be a connection somewhere, but what or who is it? This book really does keep you guessing and enthralled, a fantastic read. ...more 4.5 stars really. Excellent story. Grace, mother of two, finds a fifteen year old picture mysteriously mixed in with her roll of freshly developed film. Her husband Jack, extremely upset upon seeing the picture, disappears that same evening. As Grace searches for Jack, the situation gets more mysterious and more frightening. How did that photo get into her envelope and what happened all those years ago? The more information Grace gets, the more questions she has. Eventually all the questions get 4.5 stars really. Excellent story. Grace, mother of two, finds a fifteen year old picture mysteriously mixed in with her roll of freshly developed film. Her husband Jack, extremely upset upon seeing the picture, disappears that same evening. As Grace searches for Jack, the situation gets more mysterious and more frightening. How did that photo get into her envelope and what happened all those years ago? The more information Grace gets, the more questions she has. Eventually all the questions get answered and I would have given this book five stars, but at the end of the book, once I had all the answers, I felt like I needed to create a flowchart to keep straight who did what when and why. Whew! But it was really good, so I'd highly recommend this one. ...more \"Apenas um Olhar\" apresenta um enredo complexo, com boas doses de perigo, adrenalina e um assassino cuja t\u00e9cnica \u00e9 arrepiante. Opini\u00e3o completa em: http://quandoseabreumlivro.blogspot.p... Maybe Harlan Coben is just not an author for me. This is my fourth book by this author and my ratings have ranged from 1 to 3. This was recommended by a friend as a fun read - it was so confusing it gave me a headache- not fun! There were some very interesting plot points but they were interspersed with some of the most ridiculous actions that I got dizzy. JUST ONE LOOK (Pub. 2004) by Harlan Coben was a great read, my second favorite of this author's works to-date. Coben kicks things up a couple notches from some of his tamer domestic thrillers. Although the story is largely centered around Grace Lawson and her husband that goes missing, there is an intriguing underlying plot, that at first appears to be a subplot, but in classic Coben fashion, he manages to weave the two incidents together in a way that makes for a great read. I had a hard time p JUST ONE LOOK (Pub. 2004) by Harlan Coben was a great read, my second favorite of this author's works to-date. Coben kicks things up a couple notches from some of his tamer domestic thrillers. Although the story is largely centered around Grace Lawson and her husband that goes missing, there is an intriguing underlying plot, that at first appears to be a subplot, but in classic Coben fashion, he manages to weave the two incidents together in a way that makes for a great read. I had a hard time putting this one down, and read it in a 24-hr period. As usual, Coben has a strong narrative voice while rolling out his characters in a way that makes the reader care about them quickly. Coben's masterstroke in this novel is the incredibly evil and well-drawn main antagonist, Wu. There are certain traits/scenes of the character that made me actually shudder. Luckily, the author keeps those horrific moments to the perfect minimum - just long enough to get your heart pounding without crossing the gross-out creep-out threshold that can make a person not finish reading a book. Call me a bit of a sissy, but I do have a creep-out line, and if an author crosses it, the book goes from being entertaining to upsetting. Harlan gets it just right. Wu is also an original feeling-character, both in his traits and background, as well as his methods of hurting and controlling his victims. But in classic Coben style, the evil Wu is only a taskmaster of the true underlying bad guys, both of whom are on separate pages and end up impacting each other and the MCs right up to the last page. There are a couple minor glitches in Coben's wrap-up on one of the MC's motivations at the very end of the book, that made me go 'huh?', but it didn't ruin the story by any means, and it would be a spoiler for readers to go into detail here on those coupld minor things, so I won't. My only other negative comment is not related to the author, but to his line editor, who should be ashamed of his/herself - there were at least 20 blatant errors (seemed like one every 15-20 pages. Not typos, but either one word too many, or too few. I'm still giving this read a straight-up 5-star rating because I thoroughly enjoyed the story, as well as the author's writing style, and the small glitches in no way took away from that. ...more SPOILER-FREE RECENZIJA Cobena sam otkrio prije \u010detiri-pet godina s hvaljenom (i ekraniziranom) knjigom \u201eNikom ni rije\u010di\u201c. S obzirom na pozitivno sje\u0107anje, odlu\u010dio sam se posvetiti ovom romanu i moram priznati da se isplatilo. \u201eSamo jedan pogled\u201c je roman izuzetno brze, dinami\u010dne i slojevite pri\u010de s obratima do, doslovce, posljednjih redova. Sve po\u010dinje naizgled bezazlenim podizanjem razvijenih fotografija majke Grace u prosje\u010dnoj obitelji me\u0111u kojima se nalazi fotografija stara 15-20 godina. Upra SPOILER-FREE RECENZIJA Cobena sam otkrio prije \u010detiri-pet godina s hvaljenom (i ekraniziranom) knjigom \u201eNikom ni rije\u010di\u201c. S obzirom na pozitivno sje\u0107anje, odlu\u010dio sam se posvetiti ovom romanu i moram priznati da se isplatilo. \u201eSamo jedan pogled\u201c je roman izuzetno brze, dinami\u010dne i slojevite pri\u010de s obratima do, doslovce, posljednjih redova. Sve po\u010dinje naizgled bezazlenim podizanjem razvijenih fotografija majke Grace u prosje\u010dnoj obitelji me\u0111u kojima se nalazi fotografija stara 15-20 godina. Upravo je ona okida\u010d svih doga\u0111aja i iako se \u010dini kao tipi\u010dna gre\u0161ka zaposlenika, istina je puno zamr\u0161enija. S obzirom da je Grace tek jedan kota\u010di\u0107 u cijelom procesu morat \u0107e se suo\u010diti s ljudima razli\u010ditih motiva i uloga u cjelokupnoj slagalici, a iznena\u0111enja ne\u0107e nedostajati. Sumnja koja \u0107e se provla\u010diti kroz njezine poku\u0161aje da shvati pro\u0161lost i paralelne radnje zbog kojih \u0107e \u010ditatelj \u017euditi da budu povezane u jednu kompoziciju su ono \u0161to u kona\u010dnici od \u010ditatelja konstantno tra\u017ei \u201ejo\u0161 jednu stranicu\u201c. Dodu\u0161e, neke manje primjedbe bi se mogle na\u0107i i ne mogu tvrditi da je knjiga potpuno zaslu\u017eila savr\u0161enu ocjenu (da ne ulazim sad u spoiler dio ne\u0107u previ\u0161e o tome), ali mora se priznati da se Coben jo\u0161 jednom pokazao kao autor koji mo\u017ee napisati neizvjesnu misteriju slojevite radnje i intrigantnih likova. Tijekom svih 300+ stranica ne mogu na\u0107i niti jedan dio u kojem tempo pada, \u0161to je definitivno veliki plus za knjigu. Za kraj mogu preporu\u010diti ovu knjigu svima, pogotovo onima koji su fanovi ovog \u017eanra, dok oni koji nisu otkrili Cobena i njegov opus ovo mo\u017ee poslu\u017eiti kao po\u010detna stanica za otkrivanje jo\u0161 jednog autora kojeg \u0107e obo\u017eavati na dulje staze. Dvoumio sam se oko ocjene, iako se mo\u017eda iz svih hvalospjeva to ne vidi, ali ako se ocjena mjeri po tome koliko Vas knjiga obuzme i uvu\u010de u svoj svijet onda definitivno sve manje od maksimalne ocjene ne bi bilo korektno dodijeliti knjizi. ...more I hadn't read a Harlan Coben in a while (maybe since our trip to Costa Rica?) but I remembered how much I liked him with this book. It's a book that opens with a felon asking to see Scott Duncan, a US ADA, and confessing that he killed his sister way back when (because even though the hired hand didn't kill women as part of his \"code\", obviously the name Geri sounds like the male version of the same). Then the reader becomes introduced to Grace Lawson, a wife with two kids married to Jack, who d I hadn't read a Harlan Coben in a while (maybe since our trip to Costa Rica?) but I remembered how much I liked him with this book. It's a book that opens with a felon asking to see Scott Duncan, a US ADA, and confessing that he killed his sister way back when (because even though the hired hand didn't kill women as part of his \"code\", obviously the name Geri sounds like the male version of the same). Then the reader becomes introduced to Grace Lawson, a wife with two kids married to Jack, who discovers an old picture of her husband in her newly developed photos. How she will be tied into Scott becomes clear about halfway through. Along the way, Coben introduces a lot of characters: Rocky Conwell, dead too soon; Eric Wu, another hired assassin who uses his hands as lethal weapons; Charlaine, the concerned neighbor; Cora, Grace's best friend; Carl Vespa, a mafioso whose son was killed 15 years ago at the \"Boston Massacre\" and his driver/thug Cram; Jimmy X, an old rocker who was performing that same Massacre night, and Josh, the innocent (or is he?) photo developer who manages to be a part of this from the beginning. There are lots of twists and turns (including Jack's sister (view spoiler) [ who turns out to not be his sister at all (hide spoiler) ] and I loved it, even though the ending (view spoiler) [ where Jimmy X plagiarized a song from Jack and his friends' band Allaw and John Lawson was killed and no one should speak up because it would ruin the Lawson trust and take away Sharon's law license (hide spoiler) ] was a bit confusing and honestly ridiculous. There were also quite a few typos (at one point Charlaine was referred to as Grace as well as Charlotte, who isn't even a character in the book) but overall, a great fast summer read. ...more<---C>Harlan Coben</---C>", "Title": "Just One Look"},
