{"Comments": "Awful. \"<+++>Daemon</+++>\" suffers from all the usual pitfalls of the first novel: unoriginal premise,<---M> wooden dialogue</---M>, melodramatic action, clumsy exposition, sloppy resolution, inconsequential subplotting. When the author tries to be witty, he comes off as conceited; when he tries to impress with his tech-savvy, he sounds as if he's quoting from \"Popular Science\" magazine. This was the worst book I've read in a while, and I'm not sure whether I want <---A>Daniel Suarez</---A> to stop writing altogether, or give him c Awful. \"<+++>Daemon</+++>\" suffers from all the usual pitfalls of the first novel: unoriginal premise, wooden dialogue, melodramatic action, clumsy exposition, sloppy resolution, inconsequential subplotting. When the author tries to be witty, he comes off as conceited; when he tries to impress with his tech-savvy, he sounds as if he's quoting from \"Popular Science\" magazine. This was the worst book I've read in a while, and I'm not sure whether I want Daniel Suarez to stop writing altogether, or give him credit for having nowhere to go but up. ...more Daniel Suarez's Daemon is an amazing story. And I'm not talking about the actual plot; for that, the word \"Amazing\" would not suffice. No, I am referring to the incredible series of events which are leading up to its publication and release on January 8th. After writing Daemon back in 2004, Suarez faced the uphill battle common to many first-time authors. Unable to find a buyer, yet confident of the quality of his work, he decided to self-publish. Using print-on-demand, Suarez pumped out a few do Daniel Suarez's Daemon is an amazing story. And I'm not talking about the actual plot; for that, the word \"Amazing\" would not suffice. No, I am referring to the incredible series of events which are leading up to its publication and release on January 8th. After writing Daemon back in 2004, Suarez faced the uphill battle common to many first-time authors. Unable to find a buyer, yet confident of the quality of his work, he decided to self-publish. Using print-on-demand, Suarez pumped out a few dozen copies a month, at the time sporting the pseudonym of Leinad Zeraus, his real name spelled backwards. Eventually the book achieved an underground and vocal following. A tipping point of sorts was reached, and the right people began promoting the book in whatever way they could, people like Craig, of craigslist fame and Rick Klau, at Feedburner (<---B>now owned by Google</---B>). This network helped boost sales until the bright folks at Dutton publishing realized that a phenomenal author was going ignored. What thrills me about the way this book came to life isn't the underdog-triumphant cliche, it is that the themes within Daemon are eerily germane to its own birthing pains. The premise of this book is that our technological interconnectedness will create as many problems as it solves. Empowering the little people with cheap processing power and an Internet which can not be regulated nor destroyed is great if you are a first time author trying to get a book out the door; it isn't so good for the rest of us if you are able to steal the identities of others, plan terrorist attacks, or abuse an infrastructure designed for efficiency, but capable of worse. Other authors have probed these questions; Suarez goes one step further. His is an even bigger query: can our current economic and political systems evolve in a way that will handle the increase in individual power, or is a geopolitical revolution going to be required? If it sounds like heady stuff, it is. But don't worry, you'll have plenty of incentive to chew this fat as you feast on the meaty murder mystery which holds these premises together. Well, maybe \"mystery\" is the wrong word. You see, Daemon starts with a gruesome death scene and a typical police procedural, but events unfold in a unique manner after just the first few pages. Very early into our story a man identifies himself to our head detective and confesses to the two murders. Here is the twist: The murderer is the famous billionaire videogame programmer <---C>Matthew Sobol</---C>; And Sobol died of cancer before these crimes took place! There is no \"whodunnit\" in Daemon . When you think about it, 'Who?' is really an uninteresting question compared to \"Why?\" and 'How?'. The former is just a name, a character. There is some suspense, sure, but the 'Why' and 'How' of this book make a normal murder mystery seem blase.<---F> The 'Why' is a philosophical revolution</---F>. The 'How' is a frightening glimpse of a future managed by machines and programs. The real antagonist in \"Daemon\" isn't the dead Sobol, though he serves as its figurehead, the real enemy in this book is the titular Daemon, the distributed algorithm that Sobol meticulously crafted and unleashed on the world. The power of Sobol's Daemon comes from his advances in videogame AI. Sobol created the book's version of our World of Warcraft, which they call \"The Gate\". This MMORPG not only provides the technical know-how for designing incredibly robust logic trees, it also provides the perfect virtual world for training and recruitment. And the rapt population is the ideal one for a cult of personality to form: Dissatisfied 20-somethings looking for a cause to celebrate, as one of his characters powerfully puts it: This was as far from Main Street as he'd ever been. This wasn't the tattooed, pierced neo-tribal rebellious bullshit of his generation. This was a quiet demonstration of networked power. This was it . Couple this empowerment with the addictive concept of \"leveling\" in real-life and you have a recruitment process that Al Qaeda can't match. Look at how XBox gamers compare their real-world \"Gamerscores\" and trophies, how forum denizens brandish post-counts as proof of actual superiority, or how millionaire doctors can be reduced to clawing at one another for \"loot\" bags at medical conventions. The mechanisms that make videogames engaging, addictive, and all-powerful do NOT work on us because of anything inherent in videogames, they succeed because of truths inherent in humanity. Especially for virile males seeking the alpha-male status of 1337ness. Suarez's grip on this undercurrent is matched by his knowledge of today's leading-edge technology. The book reads like Engadget, Gizmodo, and Wired Magazine rolled up in some military \"Janes\" articles. This isn't science fiction, it is fiction based on scientific FACT. In a speech for the Long Now foundation, Suarez recently detailed how some of the advances which power the plot of his novel are in action today. From bots that scour our medical records and approve our loans, to convincing text-to-voice technology, and on to cameras which read the license plates of traffic violators with an automated process which results in an actual ticket being cursed by a real human. Soon RFID tags will interact with mesh networks that can track everything, all in the name of efficiency and profit, but hackable for more nefarious purposes. This contemporary relevance is why some are already comparing Suarez to Michael Crichton, but I don't think the comparison is fair to Suarez. Chrichton was great at taking science to its extremes, creating worlds which seemed plausible, yet unlikely. Suarez does something better: He uses a mastery of the micro-technological to posit, with convincing force, a macro-future which seems more inevitable than fanciful. Which of these is scarier: Reading about a dinosaur chasing your imaginary hero, or putting down a terrifying thriller and seeing another Reuter's article which drags that fiction into YOUR reality? The former isn't even a close second. For me, Suarez is the new Neal Stephenson. If Stephenson's \"Diamond Age\" is a glimpse of our world 200 years from now, Suarez is the more-germane prophet of a literal tomorrow. His particular fiction is as unlikely as any to ever come to pass, but the questions it wrestles with MUST be raised and dealt with by a generation alive today. Daemon 's brilliance is that it combines an engrossing mystery with nerve-splitting action, and yet still raises these heady questions. This mixture creates a novel that you never want to put down, and when you are forced to do so, the implications of its philosophical underpinnings stir your imagination into a frenzy. You don't find yourself perseverating over the precarious situation you left the characters in, you instead find yourself seeing the world around you in a different light. It is as if a HUD becomes overlayed on your vision, filled with the data and info that Suarez's book illuminates, an experience not unlike that endured by his characters as they are bent to the will of his fictional mastermind, Mathew Sobol. The next time I make a flight reservation by interacting with an imaginary voice that is following a logic tree, a simplified version of the Daemon , it will be with a new, chilling awareness. Daemon was a perfect storm for me, as a reader. I grew up on science fiction, but I now prefer a realistic thriller. I enjoy the effortless pleasure of reading make-believe, yet prefer thought provoking non-fiction. I am an avid gamer and a worshiper (albeit rarely a purchaser) of consumer electronics. This novel touched on so many passions, and sated them all. Even when the plot disappointed me at times, it was a devious sham that Suarez teased me with, then made up for it in the end. Rarely do I put down a great read like I did tonight and have the urge to call friends and family to share the experience with them, but that is how Daemon made me feel. It isn't just a great book; it is an important book. ...more I've just become a huge fanboy with one book. That's to say I was rightly blown away. :) All right. To explain. What first seems like a techno-thriller with gamers and programmers and a murderer doing all his murders after his own death by cancer then quickly turns into a social and economical exploration based on the trends we're now facing. This is a fun and complicated story filled with many twists and turns, awesome characters, and a world-changing creation that turns us all into players in a I've just become a huge fanboy with one book. That's to say I was rightly blown away. :) All right. To explain. What first seems like a techno-thriller with gamers and programmers and a murderer doing all his murders after his own death by cancer then quickly turns into a social and economical exploration based on the trends we're now facing. This is a fun and complicated story filled with many twists and turns, awesome characters, and a world-changing creation that turns us all into players in a world-wide socio-economic game based on distributed network theory and game-development strategies. You know that little military idea of Game Theory? Why not take it to an All New Level and create for ourselves a Game Of Our Lives, so pervasive a virus and lucrative for all the players that it takes over every level of government, corporation, and home? It's like having the mafia become a super genius living in every computer and taking over everything purely by social hacking. It's beautiful. I've seen a number of somewhat similar tales grace the page, but most of those are social hacking through social media. This one is a bit more fundamental than that. This one leaves us all alone unless it has something it needs, in conjunction with so many other people-pieces, that when they're put together, create major changes without anyone knowing exactly what was up until it happened. A computer god or Microsoft Design Strategy. Whatever. It's gorgeous. And so strange that the novel still keeps up with it's techno-thriller ride, still managing a wonderful story while also exploring the depths of an entirely plausible and scary takeover of the world. :) By AI. I totally recommend this fantastic SF. It is both fun and important for the field. :) Solid as hell and a pure delight, even with some of the more disturbing social aspects intact. No one is innocent. That's kinda the point. We deserve to be taken over by a computer parasite. :) ...more If you were someone with more computer knowledge and money than Bill Gates, and you found out you were dying, would you: A) Give all your money to charity just in case you can buy your way into heaven. B) Indulge in an around the world drinking, drug and sex spree until going out in a blaze of glory by crashing your private jet into an erupting volcano live on CNN. C) Pour all your money into a cryogenics program and freeze yourself like Walt Disney in the hope that they\u2019ll finally figure out a way If you were someone with more computer knowledge and money than Bill Gates, and you found out you were dying, would you: A) Give all your money to charity just in case you can buy your way into heaven. B) Indulge in an around the world drinking, drug and sex spree until going out in a blaze of glory by crashing your private jet into an erupting volcano live on CNN. C) Pour all your money into a cryogenics program and freeze yourself like Walt Disney in the hope that they\u2019ll finally figure out a way to bring back the human popsicles. D) Devise an intricate high-tech web of infrastructure and computer programs that will carry out your will and launch an Internet scheme that will kill a whole lot of people when your obituary is published. If you chose A, B or C, then you obviously weren\u2019t cut out to be a crazy billionaire. I loved the premise of this book and thought the first half of it was a fun and original thriller. I was a little disappointed in the second half. The climax was exciting, but at that point, I thought the technology being introduced began to border on science fiction. Part of the hook of the book for me was the idea that this dead billionaire could rig existing computer programs to carry out a worldwide scheme, and the author made that idea very believable because of the detail he had of current networks. And even though the tech introduced in the final act is probably on somebody's drawing boards, it took away from the realism built up in the first half. Plus, I didn't like that this is apparently the first book in a series. I wasn't aware of that until I hit the last page, and then there was an ad for the next book. I'll probably read the next one, but I thought I was getting a complete story when I read this one. Despite my complaining, I still thought it was a very original and interesting book. One of the better thrillers I've read in recent years. ...more Very smart, very cool. Daniel Suarez\u2019 2006 novel Daemon was a pistol hot cup of rhyme, a mix of Ready Player One , Age of Ultron, The Matrix and Left Behind (without the overt theology). But whereas Ernest Cline\u2019s 2012 book was charismatic and kooky with the 80s trivia, Suarez\u2019 work is dark and at times disturbing; it hums and growls with a dark net underground magnetism. Matthew Sobol was a billionaire genius who had invented wildly popular and stunningly realistic online games. Poisoned by brain Very smart, very cool. Daniel Suarez\u2019 2006 novel Daemon was a pistol hot cup of rhyme, a mix of Ready Player One , Age of Ultron, The Matrix and Left Behind (without the overt theology). But whereas Ernest Cline\u2019s 2012 book was charismatic and kooky with the 80s trivia, Suarez\u2019 work is dark and at times disturbing; it hums and growls with a dark net underground magnetism. Matthew Sobol was a billionaire genius who had invented wildly popular and stunningly realistic online games. Poisoned by brain cancer and wasted by chemotherapy, his final days were marred by reclusiveness and mental instability. No one knew how mentally unstable until after his death when a series of bizarre events revealed his detailed and well planned machinations to change the world. A dark net, automated daemon he left behind is making dramatic and dangerous alterations to government, business and society as a whole. Suarez has populated his narrative with an intriguing cast of well developed characters. Eschewing any one dominant protagonist, the writer moves deftly between perspectives, even following his players into death. This cacophony of omniscience serves his narrative structure well as we follow the malevolent creation of a man gone from this world physically but living on actively through his online creations. Suarez also provides sufficient and cause-and-effect backstories to reveal Sobol's pre-death planning. Unlike Left Behind\u2019s Nicolai Carpathia, this humanist villain bears a nihilistic, philosophical rationalization for his world changing intrigues. While this does at some times get bogged down with overly technical explanations (I don\u2019t know if this is science fiction or if this could really happen) Suarez does a better than average job of both stepping the science down for us knuckle draggers and keeping the pace moving along. Fast moving, slick Sci-fi with horrific elements, this is a very good read. I\u2019ll read more from Mr. Suarez. ...more Into the third chapter of this book I had to close it for good. I was very disappointed given its good reviews. There were a few swear words but as the F-bombs started to land, the Rave parties began, drug dealers started trash talking, prostitutes hit the scene and a date rape began I had to quit, all before chapter 4. This was such a departure from the \"computer program gone awry, murder mystery\" premise I was totally taken off guard. I wish there was a content rating for books like there are Into the third chapter of this book I had to close it for good. I was very disappointed given its good reviews. There were a few swear words but as the F-bombs started to land, the Rave parties began, drug dealers started trash talking, prostitutes hit the scene and a date rape began I had to quit, all before chapter 4. This was such a departure from the \"computer program gone awry, murder mystery\" premise I was totally taken off guard. I wish there was a content rating for books like there are movies. I think I will start rating my books so other readers may know what they are getting into. Please join me in doing so. RATING - R ...more Okay, I'm going with an unpopular opinion here. And a DNF @ 16%. There's a scene with one of our POV characters where he goes to a rave, separates a young woman from her \"peer support system\" (his words), drugs her, and then convinces her to strip in front of a hundred people, after which he gets her to have sex with and/or give blowjobs to about 40 guys who are standing in line, waiting \"their turn\". All while he's streaming it live on the internet. Oh, and it establishes that he does this on a Okay, I'm going with an unpopular opinion here. And a DNF @ 16%. There's a scene with one of our POV characters where he goes to a rave, separates a young woman from her \"peer support system\" (his words), drugs her, and then convinces her to strip in front of a hundred people, after which he gets her to have sex with and/or give blowjobs to about 40 guys who are standing in line, waiting \"their turn\". All while he's streaming it live on the internet. Oh, and it establishes that he does this on a regular basis. I get that Suarez is trying to get the point across that this guy is a creep but this was a long and nauseating scene and I really struggled with it. There are better ways to get the point across. This aside, the story itself was interesting and I want to read it. But I can't bring myself to pick the book back up. Take that opinion as it is, I know that people aren't going to be happy with it. But I think some people will be glad I said something. ...more Billionaire computer software mogul Matthew Sobol has died and he wants to make sure he leaves behind a legacy. That legacy comes in the form of a daemon, or a computer programing running in the background of every system that has installed his massively popular on-line, multi-player video game. When news of Sobol's death hits the Internet, the daemon becomes active, creating havoc across the world as it exploits vulnerabilities in computer networks and uses them for its own purposes. Daniel Suar Billionaire computer software mogul Matthew Sobol has died and he wants to make sure he leaves behind a legacy. That legacy comes in the form of a daemon, or a computer programing running in the background of every system that has installed his massively popular on-line, multi-player video game. When news of Sobol's death hits the Internet, the daemon becomes active, creating havoc across the world as it exploits vulnerabilities in computer networks and uses them for its own purposes. Daniel Suarez's first novel \"Daemon\" is a fascinating, compelling and, at times, downright scary story of just how open to attack and manipulation many of our computer networks are. It may be one thing to think about hackers taking advantage gaps in the security to get free wi-fi Internet access, but it's entirely another to see a home security system run amok, intent on killing anyone who tries to approach Sobol's home and to disable it. Or seeing how easily the system can manipulate multiple networks to reduce the sentence of a hardened criminal from maximum security prison to a low-security facility and eventually set free in order to facilitate the next step in the daemon's plan. The story of how Suarez's novel went from a self-published story to a major book contract and potential movie deal is one that will give hope to every aspiring writer out there. Suarez got his book into the hands of a target audience and created a buzz for himself that it was impossible for a conventional publisher to ignore. But the thing is--if \"Daemon\" weren't a good book, no one would be talking about it. And \"Daemon\" is that good. This is not a book to pick up at bedtime and think you're going to read a few pages before you head to sleep. \"Daemon\" is the kind of book that you find yourself lulled into, thinking you're only reading a few pages and spending a few minutes caught up in this high-tech, scary and all to close to real world, only to find you've read half the book, its 2 a.m. and you've got to be at work in a few hours. And you still find yourself regretting having to put the book aside. \"Daemon\" is smart, fresh and reminded me a lot of the early intensity of Tom Clancy novels. Suarez clearly knows and understands his technology but is able to translate that into the story without it feeling like he's bringing the plotline to a halt for an infodump. The only negative thing I can say about this book is that it was over too soon and left me wanting more. Suarez has promised a sequel and the book comes to a conclusion that effectively wraps up the story for this book but leaves open a lot of doors for a sequel. It's a sequel that I will be waiting impatiently for at my local bookstore. ...more A 3.5 for me. A crazy individual who happens to be a millionaire genius somehow hacks the Internet and after his death his ideology runs havoc within law enforcement, the military, America's judicial system, the public sector, etc.... It was a well written book with a good story line, I just wish I could have connected with the characters more, there were too many and none very likable. Computer gamers would probably enjoy this book very much. It is the first of two books but I probably won't r A 3.5 for me. A crazy individual who happens to be a millionaire genius somehow hacks the Internet and after his death his ideology runs havoc within law enforcement, the military, America's judicial system, the public sector, etc.... It was a well written book with a good story line, I just wish I could have connected with the characters more, there were too many and none very likable. Computer gamers would probably enjoy this book very much. It is the first of two books but I probably won't read the next one unless it shows up as a Daily Deal. ...more Originally reviewed in May 2014. Just had to repair a couple of typos. By the way if find more typos I missed...sorry. #%*&@#%.....grrrrrrr.....I hate this book!!!!!! It ended in a cliff hanger! I hate cliff hangers!!!!! I have now downloaded the next book so I can start it immediately. For 2 days I laid all other books aside and whenever I could was reading this one. I finished it today...and there's only one other book. In my experience nobody finishes a \"new\" series in TWO books anymore! I s Originally reviewed in May 2014. Just had to repair a couple of typos. By the way if find more typos I missed...sorry. #%*&@#%.....grrrrrrr.....I hate this book!!!!!! It ended in a cliff hanger! I hate cliff hangers!!!!! I have now downloaded the next book so I can start it immediately. For 2 days I laid all other books aside and whenever I could was reading this one. I finished it today...and there's only one other book. In my experience nobody finishes a \"new\" series in TWO books anymore! I suspect I have fallen prey to another series I will soon find myself caught up in and waiting for more books! Is this so? I don't know but I plan to start the next book Freedom\u2122 sometime this evening. Okay, so this is an exceptionally well written book with a story that doesn't fall into all the stereotypical traps it could fall into. The characters are good and their stories have some twists and turns that while not totally unpredictably come off well and don't lose the interest. You'll like some, hate others, see some of their actions coming a mile off but know it's because \"you've met them in real life\". Others will surprise you and it will keep you reading. The plot while not ground breaking is very well handled. No boring worn-out cliche's here. I have read thousands of books. Sometimes this is a problem as I can find myself losing interest in books that really aren't bad but leave me with a \"been there, done that, got the T-shirt\" feeling. That never happens here. I picked this book up a few weeks ago and barely got started but had to send it back to the library. I'd only read the first few paragraphs...but when I restarted the book i fell right back into the story, even though I hadn't really gotten into it. Within a few pages I was hooked and I NEVER LOST INTEREST throughout the entire novel. Many of you will have read Robopocalypse . Others have probably read enough of the Dune series to know how Mentats came about....and there are others. Let me suggest that maybe you'd like to go old school and consider finding a copy of Colossus by Dennis Feltham Jones. It's a book with a similar idea behind it...but from 1966 before our computer controlled world \"could\" even be imagined. Okay...so I like the book, even though I HATE that I may be getting involved in ANOTHER series I'll have to live long enough to finish! Okay...five stars...highly recommended....enjoy.... If you can knowing it ends in a cliffhanger. Colossus ...more Someone should give this man a pat on the back. He got every tech detail accurate as far as I could discern, which is a welcome change to the current Hollywoodification of tech thrillers (Skyfall anyone? - yuck) I flew through this book and loved every minute of it. I could have done without the brutal mistreatment of a woman at the beginning of the the book, but it did server to vilify one of the main antagonists. After this opening scene, you are thrown into a world of action, and mystery. I lo Someone should give this man a pat on the back. He got every tech detail accurate as far as I could discern, which is a welcome change to the current Hollywoodification of tech thrillers (Skyfall anyone? - yuck) I flew through this book and loved every minute of it. I could have done without the brutal mistreatment of a woman at the beginning of the the book, but it did server to vilify one of the main antagonists. After this opening scene, you are thrown into a world of action, and mystery. I loved trying to guess what would happen next, and being pleasantly surprised at the realistic ways in which the characters dealt with the situations. Sobol's deamon was terrifying, but completely possible. I think that if such a program were to exist, the public and the private sectors would react in essentially the same way. I haven't been this engrossed in a book since my last Crichton read. I highly recommend this book, and I would love to hear about any others that are similar. ...more Wonderful, wonderful read. I'm taking off one star because I found the ending to be very... well, not to my liking. I thought it was too abrupt, and I didn't feel like anything was resolved. Maybe it was supposed to be, but I tend to like closure. In the Eighties, I read and loved the genre called \"cyberpunk,\" and was disappointed to see it vanish as the fantasy Net was replaced with the very real Web, imagined microcommunicators were replaced with Bluetooth headsets, and anyone anywhere with a bit of knowledge and equipment became able--for real--to dive into government databases, corporate financial records, and anything else on the web. Cyberpunk-era virtual reality bore a strong resemblance to Second Life, but as the reality became ma In the Eighties, I read and loved the genre called \"cyberpunk,\" and was disappointed to see it vanish as the fantasy Net was replaced with the very real Web, imagined microcommunicators were replaced with Bluetooth headsets, and anyone anywhere with a bit of knowledge and equipment became able--for real--to dive into government databases, corporate financial records, and anything else on the web. Cyberpunk-era virtual reality bore a strong resemblance to Second Life, but as the reality became manifest my much-loved fiction became relegated to the history piles. Fortunately, much of that spirit, that wonderful blend of pure optimism in the midst of dystopia, can be found in what is now called \"tech fiction\" ... IF the author can pull it off. Daniel Suarez can, and he does so far better than most. Other people have already posted synopses, so I'm not recapping the plot here. But if there are others of my generation out there wishing for a bit of the edgy future we once envisioned and feel certain ought now to exist ... pick Daemon up at your public library. You won't regret it. ...more \"The DaVinci Code\" for Wired readers. Some mindless fun for when the mood strikes. Read it soon though, since the \"modern high tech\" or 2006 has already started to expire. 3.5 stars. A unique fictional take on the world of MMORPGs and video game AI. I liked this because in some ways it was very \"Michael Crichton-y\" in its combination of action and thriller with science and technology, though I suspect that folks with extensive knowledge of programming and computer network systems will find some of the explanations and details in Daemon overly simplistic or flat out nonsensical. The book doesn't really paint a very positive or flattering picture of gamers either, bu 3.5 stars. A unique fictional take on the world of MMORPGs and video game AI. I liked this because in some ways it was very \"Michael Crichton-y\" in its combination of action and thriller with science and technology, though I suspect that folks with extensive knowledge of programming and computer network systems will find some of the explanations and details in Daemon overly simplistic or flat out nonsensical. The book doesn't really paint a very positive or flattering picture of gamers either, but I thought it was a fun read nonetheless, especially the first part of the book. Admittedly, the second half loses its steam somewhat, but then the novel had to go and end in an infuriating yet nail-bitingly intriguing cliffhanger, and so of course now I *have* to read the sequel. In some ways, this book reminds me of Ready Player One, but it is much darker and more violent. Both novels involve filthy rich, reclusive, and renowned game developers who leave behind a legacy for their fans after their deaths. In RPO, James Halliday challenges the denizens of the OASIS to find the ultimate Easter egg by hiding a series of hidden clues and puzzles in the vastness of his virtual world. Fun! On the other hand, Matthew Sobol in Daemon is a psychopath who uses technology to kill people, relying on the news of his premature demise from a long battle with brain cancer to trigger a virus thst infects the internet, as well as using his games to recruit a secret army to cause chaos and anarchy to the world's economy and society. Diabolical! ...more Apparently this is first of a series. MMO and videogame magnate dies, but somehow works his will through outlandish technological means to implement some plan of collapsing/remaking society. People try with absolutely no success to stop him. The problem with this book is that all the cards are held by the villains, to the point of absurdity. Literal absurdity, once they start pulling the Razorbacks in. The heroes exist only to be struck down, and while this might be good as a set-up, an entire bo Apparently this is first of a series. MMO and videogame magnate dies, but somehow works his will through outlandish technological means to implement some plan of collapsing/remaking society. People try with absolutely no success to stop him. The problem with this book is that all the cards are held by the villains, to the point of absurdity. Literal absurdity, once they start pulling the Razorbacks in. The heroes exist only to be struck down, and while this might be good as a set-up, an entire book of it grows wearying. It's not a bad premise, and there's an especially nice scene where the bad guys are directed almost by a virtual GPS to do a step-by-step process, receiving \"experience points\" for completion. The idea of factions as well, and the gamification of real life are interesting ideas that beg for exploration. Yet he wastes time on pointless elaborate deathtrap scenes, and introducing more evil characters than good ones. The daemon has ridiculous power and foresight for a game A.I. reacting with no visible control. It's a tremendous disappointment to me because the theme needs more than just a typical thriller. It could be an incredible book if it explored the ideas in it. But now it's just an over-long set up for books two and probably three. ...more This is definitely one of the best books I've read in a year. The premise was fascinating. It's a great thrill ride. Can someone program computers with backdoor programs to read the newswires and make other things happen? Can a computer drive a car and kill people? Are there people so involved in the gaming world that they would do things in the real world just because a game told them to or just to earn more points in their gaming world? This book is extremely fast paced and never boring. Don't This is definitely one of the best books I've read in a year. The premise was fascinating. It's a great thrill ride. Can someone program computers with backdoor programs to read the newswires and make other things happen? Can a computer drive a car and kill people? Are there people so involved in the gaming world that they would do things in the real world just because a game told them to or just to earn more points in their gaming world? This book is extremely fast paced and never boring. Don't worry about knowing a lot about computers or the gaming world. It will explain it in simple terms. It's both scary and exciting in the concepts that are in this book. It makes you wonder could this happen. Could a computer programmer destroy financial institutions and the banking system? I don't know if this is Mr. Suarez's debut, but I will definitely be looking for his books in the future. I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a great read. ...more *** Spoiler Alert *** The premise is intriguing. A genius game designer dies and when his obituary is published it triggers all sorts of mayhem through the Internet and his code recruits disaffected gamers as helpers to satisfy his Blofeldish scheme. Suarez definitely knows his technology. But I grew weary of the technical jargon, the thin characters, the generic writing. There are explosive action sequences you'd expect to find in a Michael Bay movie. And paragraphs like this: \"Gragg opened the Ne *** Spoiler Alert *** The premise is intriguing. A genius game designer dies and when his obituary is published it triggers all sorts of mayhem through the Internet and his code recruits disaffected gamers as helpers to satisfy his Blofeldish scheme. Suarez definitely knows his technology. But I grew weary of the technical jargon, the thin characters, the generic writing. There are explosive action sequences you'd expect to find in a Michael Bay movie. And paragraphs like this: \"Gragg opened the NetStumbler logs and checked each entry. The new AP was running Wi-Fi Protected Access--WPA--a form of wireless encryption. Damn. He was hoping it would be WEP-encrypted. That would take only seconds to defeat. WPA had no structural flaws. It was as strong as its passphrase. But that would be the test, then, wouldn't it? Hopefully, the phrase wasn't more than eight or nine characters. Gragg would need to sniff the key exchange messages between the adapter and the access point, then crack the key off-line with a PSK dictionary (which he had on his laptop). He could use Air-Jack to force the key exchange by broadcasting a disassociate message. Gragg slumped in his seat. Hopefully there would be some client exchanges to monitor. But if this was a test, then that was the only correct answer.\" Here's the kicker: this novel does not have a resolution--it just ends--apparently the first in a series. After more than 600 pages, that is very frustrating. ...more To properly understand Daemon, ask a biologist about Michael Crichton. Then get some opinions of ER from some doctors and Law and Order from people with Esq. after their names. If you're particularly brave ask a theologian about Dan Brown. (If you're suicidal ask a physicist). Once your hearing recovers and your bones have knit consider that in all likelihood you've based decisions and impressions of the real world on models informed by said fiction. How many times have you eavluated a trivial le To properly understand Daemon, ask a biologist about Michael Crichton. Then get some opinions of ER from some doctors and Law and Order from people with Esq. after their names. If you're particularly brave ask a theologian about Dan Brown. (If you're suicidal ask a physicist). Once your hearing recovers and your bones have knit consider that in all likelihood you've based decisions and impressions of the real world on models informed by said fiction. How many times have you eavluated a trivial legal quandary based on what Jack McCoy would do? Or bloviated at length on what that swelling might be because it's like that one episode of House? Daemon closely fits all these stereotypes with one minor exception: it's not full of shit. If you value this as I do this book will appeal to you, though perhaps not quite as strongly if you're not conversant in the nuances yourself. If, however, you aren't bothered by egregious chicanery and hence delighted by its absence this book will likely not rise above its defects. Like Stephenson, Suarez doesn't so much end his stories as simply stop writing and some of the plot points are a bit contrived. I loved it anyhow. ...more 4.5 Stars I know there may be some that disagree, and I really don't care. This was some good reading. Fun, entertaining and made you wonder, \"Could this really happen? I think so. If someone can think this up for a book; then there is someone out there who is already trying to apply principle. This is about the potential power of the internet. Basically, what that potential power could do, if used by someone who truly understands how it all works. All of those hackers, tech nerds, programmers, e 4.5 Stars I know there may be some that disagree, and I really don't care. This was some good reading. Fun, entertaining and made you wonder, \"Could this really happen? I think so. If someone can think this up for a book; then there is someone out there who is already trying to apply principle. This is about the potential power of the internet. Basically, what that potential power could do, if used by someone who truly understands how it all works. All of those hackers, tech nerds, programmers, etc., who are just dithering around... yeah, one of those guys. One of those guys is behind the worst disaster to happen. \"Bots\" are let loose on the internet and make the vision of Reamde look tame. Don't get me wrong, this is not really a comparison. The game in Reamde didn't try to take over the world and ruin people. It was more about how those living beings could have their lives intertwine because of a internet virus and the bad things that happen when they do. This novel is about the virus itself. I think virus is the wrong word for it, but I am not computer savvy, in the least, so there you have it. From one reviewer; explaining what this \"techno-thriller is, \"...hypersonic sounds systems that make voices appear in mid-air, autonomous vehicles, electronically fired stacked projectile technology, non-lethal infrasound weapons, zombie computer systems, virtual 3D worlds overlaid on the real world via HUD glasses, and computer viruses stored in undetectable wrappers that don't run under your operating system....\" WHAT!?? What did he just explain?? I can't even share pix on Instagram! Much of the story was really guess-work for me... just trying to figure out the endgame. What is the purpose of ruining so many, causing so much pain and suffering; and then I realized who the targets were and some of the players involved. ....ahhh, it makes sense. Damn. ...more This is the first of a couple of first books by authors that write technology related fiction that I finally acquiesced to engage with after enduring relentless promotion within the technology community. Yes, I am deeply enmeshed, submerged or whatever, but no matter how deeply I dive into IT, I still have that BA in English. I am not so much a stickler that I can't abide some deviation from the rules of grammar. I am a techie, after all. But really, you should at least know the rules before you This is the first of a couple of first books by authors that write technology related fiction that I finally acquiesced to engage with after enduring relentless promotion within the technology community. Yes, I am deeply enmeshed, submerged or whatever, but no matter how deeply I dive into IT, I still have that BA in English. I am not so much a stickler that I can't abide some deviation from the rules of grammar. I am a techie, after all. But really, you should at least know the rules before you break them, if you expect to make your living via Microsoft Word. After all, it does have a grammar checker. Mr. Suarez apparently self published this, his first work. This book is an argument for editors if there ever was one. Perhaps he didn't know what those squiggly blue lines were. If you aren't a techie, you should know that a daemon is a kind of control or utility program that can perform certain tasks on its own, based upon some type of event that it can monitor. It is usually pronounced the same as the evil demigod homonym. The premise here is that a software genius dies of cancer and unleashed a series of daemons that make it appear that he lives after death. They do this mainly by monitoring the news and killing people with computer systems based upon some kind of bizarre decision tree, I guess. The narrative quickly runs out of control and it isn't helped one bit by the fact that this guy can't write. Perhaps that is why those crazy publishers just couldn't see the value of his work. This guy has written a couple more books... Is it OK to laugh at unintentional comedy if nobody gets hurt? ...more This book is as stunning as Dune. I give it ten stars. if you've previously taken a programming class so that you understand programming concepts, you'll want to discuss this book's plot madly with everyone. Unfortunately, those folks of the Earth without much computer knowledge probably won't understand how far seeing this book is. Another book in the same class of speculative fiction would be the Fight Club. They all tap into a stream of collective consciousness where it could REALLY be true s This book is as stunning as Dune. I give it ten stars. if you've previously taken a programming class so that you understand programming concepts, you'll want to discuss this book's plot madly with everyone. Unfortunately, those folks of the Earth without much computer knowledge probably won't understand how far seeing this book is. Another book in the same class of speculative fiction would be the Fight Club. They all tap into a stream of collective consciousness where it could REALLY be true somewhere sometime. The programming/hacking/hardware parts of the plot are accurate but not at all boring, as the facts are knit into the plot so deftly with quick descriptions one barely notices except for the scary realization this could happen. This series is a must read. I've got the next installment, Freedom, on my list. I adore two of the characters, Peter Sebeck, Detective, totally computer illiterate, and Jon Ross, computer genius. But they are only a part of those trying to stop a conspiracy launched by a dead billionaire, who for unknown reasons is controlling all the economies of the world by linked computers through an entity called Daemon. I suspect the name Matthew Sobol, the dead billionaire video game designer, will become a famous cult name in geek literature. ...more Well written, and successfully both gripping and credibly accurate, as one would expect of a book reviewed on Slashdot . Unfortunately, the beginning has several problems, all of which may be Suarez attempting to ensure he is taken seriously: * The painstakingly correct detail distracts from the story a bit. * The concept of the world being decided by a battle between carders feels silly. * Suarez makes it a point to demonstrate just how evil some of the characters are. This squicked me out slightly Well written, and successfully both gripping and credibly accurate, as one would expect of a book reviewed on Slashdot . Unfortunately, the beginning has several problems, all of which may be Suarez attempting to ensure he is taken seriously: * The painstakingly correct detail distracts from the story a bit. * The concept of the world being decided by a battle between carders feels silly. * Suarez makes it a point to demonstrate just how evil some of the characters are. This squicked me out slightly -- reminiscent of S. M. Stirling, and we'll have to see if he follows the Summer Lands story arc in the sequels. Fortunately these problems all subside as the story continues. I'm not really a fan of (techno-)thrillers, but I did enjoy the book, up until the ending. I hadn't realized it was just an introduction to his world, so the lack-of-an ending was disappointing. I'll probably read the second book, Freedom , and see if he manages to focus on the good parts without getting bogged down by the same problems. ...more Atrocious, but so close to being a great thriller; possibly a good movie some day. In desperate need of an editor and an ending. Geeks rave about this book the way Germantown housewives raved about _The Firm_ in 1991. \"Oh, I know all these places/terms.\" Sure. But otherwise... it kinda sucks, right? Editors fix things like this: > Southerners mocked as sounding like Colonel Sanders wouldn't subsequently say \"ten March,\" they'd say, \"the tenth o' March.\" > How does a total stranger recognize a Atrocious, but so close to being a great thriller; possibly a good movie some day. In desperate need of an editor and an ending. Geeks rave about this book the way Germantown housewives raved about _The Firm_ in 1991. \"Oh, I know all these places/terms.\" Sure. But otherwise... it kinda sucks, right? Editors fix things like this: > Southerners mocked as sounding like Colonel Sanders wouldn't subsequently say \"ten March,\" they'd say, \"the tenth o' March.\" > How does a total stranger recognize a place as a \"mixed race\" neighborhood? > Plexiglass, not Perspex > Are the prisons run by the \"Texas Department of Criminal Justice\" or the \"Texas Department of Corrections\"? Book uses both on same page. I'll bet the answer is on Wikipedia. > A \"Manx/Celtic fusion restaurant\" joke is not American; although the teller of the joke is. > \"y-two-k\"? We'd print it \"Y2K.\" > There's speech in quotes that contains parentheses. That doesn't make sense. Example: Miss X said, \"This is a Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attack. That's bad.\" That's nonsense. People don't speak parentheses. AARGH. ...more Thinking about how I've told people about this book, as \"a geeky action flick of a book\" doesn't really do it justice, although I can't really put it any more succinctly. The truth is that this is probably one of the best books I have ever read, and finishing it was extremely bittersweet because I really wanted to read more. What Daemon does is mix suspense, action and technology into a story that is rich with heroes, villains and a surprisingly plausible plot about a computer script taking over Thinking about how I've told people about this book, as \"a geeky action flick of a book\" doesn't really do it justice, although I can't really put it any more succinctly. The truth is that this is probably one of the best books I have ever read, and finishing it was extremely bittersweet because I really wanted to read more. What Daemon does is mix suspense, action and technology into a story that is rich with heroes, villains and a surprisingly plausible plot about a computer script taking over world corporations. Admittedly what kept me turning the pages was that a lot of the power for the computer script came from a videogame that in turn it used as a model to organize its operatives in a \"dark net\". The appeal to my \"videogame addled\" mine is an easy one, and I hesitate to say that this book would probably appeal most to the tech and videogame crowd rather than a more general audience. That is unfortunate though because a lot of what makes this book so interesting is its plausibility and the fact that a lot of what is mentioned inside its pages shows just how affected by videogames and technology everyone on this planet really is. In a world where your credit, your medical information, and just about everything else about you is stored digitally, it doesn't really take much to show how vulnerable we all are to something that we understand very little about. Our entire identity is integrated in a shockingly dependent way on computers, the Internet and databases of institutions to we probably don't even know the names of. What's more, our government is increasingly dependent on those same systems as well. On top of all of that the people most capable of understanding this new system that we are all dependent on are the geeky kids who play a lot of video games. To say that we hold the reins on such a dynamic and growing system shows how na\u00efve we probably all are about the way this world is evolving. The idea that a daemon could possibly gain such a foot hold that it can control corporations, affect lives of everyday citizens within the bleak of an eye, and if necessary eliminate threats to its processes isn't that far-off a reality. Fantastic book - hands down a must read, or listen in my case. In fact, I highly recommend checking out the audiobook version because the narration is top notch. Listening to Jeff Gurner perform the characters is almost like sitting down and watching a full cast act out the scenes in a blockbuster movie. ...more This came highly recommended from some friends which makes it all the more unfortunate that it didn't live up to expectations. Daemon's merit is that the ideas in it serve a plot from the realm of sci-fi but one whose execution is feasible and even thinkable with our current state of technology and society. The philosophy and story it tells is a bit of a mashup between Snow Crash, the Matrix and most pop-sci books from the past ten years. Unfortunately the story crashes under the weight of its own This came highly recommended from some friends which makes it all the more unfortunate that it didn't live up to expectations. Daemon's merit is that the ideas in it serve a plot from the realm of sci-fi but one whose execution is feasible and even thinkable with our current state of technology and society. The philosophy and story it tells is a bit of a mashup between Snow Crash, the Matrix and most pop-sci books from the past ten years. Unfortunately the story crashes under the weight of its own ambition and ridiculousness. The problem is that the changes envisioned in Daemon will happen (a lot of them are happening right now), but the scale and speed with which they happen is greatly compressed in the book for effect. Suarez should take a page from Gibson and realize that the future will not ever be evenly distributed like that and a writing lesson from Stephenson would not hurt either. The ideas in it are interesting, but the treatment is blunt and the writing is poor which does not help its credibility nor pushes it out of the realm of common technothrillers. Thrilling read, mildly mind expanding but nothing too insightful. And oh yeah, you need to buy Suarez's next book to find out how it ends. ...more Spectacular techno-thriller (hate that term). I was hooked from the beginning. A very plausible story of a game dev that dies, and leaves behind a narrow AI, that sort of... um.. takes over.. very cleverly. It had some great twists and turns, great tech being used with bloody effect. Very entertaining all round, batteries not included. Daniel Suarez's Daemon was a gripping read about an essential cyber apocalypse. The late computer genius Matthew Sobol created a globally distributed cyber daemon, a virus type program which infiltrated essentially the entire world wide web without anyone even knowing. Upon his death, Sobol's daemon was unleashed upon the world, with not only incredible cyber power and seemingly endless capital at its disposal, but an unemotional will to achieve its goal, a goal which to all except the daemon's Daniel Suarez's Daemon was a gripping read about an essential cyber apocalypse. The late computer genius Matthew Sobol created a globally distributed cyber daemon, a virus type program which infiltrated essentially the entire world wide web without anyone even knowing. Upon his death, Sobol's daemon was unleashed upon the world, with not only incredible cyber power and seemingly endless capital at its disposal, but an unemotional will to achieve its goal, a goal which to all except the daemon's dead programmer was unknown. As I read this fantastically suspenseful novel, I couldn't help but reflect on Suarez's apparent views on human nature. As government and private agencies attempted to stop the daemon, they were stopped at every turn. But how? The daemon was always a step ahead of them, leading them willingly but unknowingly into traps while the agents thought they were close to a breakthrough in the war on the daemon. Humans are generally quite predictable, and just as Sobol took advantage of this, Suarez knew it fully. I am fascinated by human behavior, and I found it amazing how spot on Suarez was about the behavior of the people in this novel. The character depth was refreshing and exciting, and I can tell that Suarez has a deep knowledge of the human condition. Suarez's view of the world in this book is a mysterious one, perhaps even pessimistic, but yet full of hope. (view spoiler) [ At the end of the book, the daemon's motives are revealed as Pete Sebeck speaks to a hologram of Matthew Sobol. Sobol wanted to change the world and erase social boundaries, a process which would not only result in many deaths, but also a complete social and economic upheaval. (hide spoiler) ] If Suarez's beliefs are inline with his writing, he believes in a techno-modified new world order in which there is no central government, but rather each person acts as a complete individual alongside peers and equals, not superiors or subordinates. This is quite a profound view of the world, and it has affected me. My belief is that human nature would get in the way, just as it does in communism, socialism, and capitalism. Greed destroys any social system, but it is quite an insightful view on the world. I would recommend this book to anyone alright with moderate profanity and some racy scenes towards the beginning of the novel, but the latter die down in part two. Personally, I could do without the rave and sex scenes, but not only do these provide character establishment, they set up later events which the daemon plays off of. All in all, it was a fantastic read, and I can't wait to read the sequel, Freedom ! ...more This book's premise, that a genius-programmer/Nega-Steve-Jobs named Matthew Sobol dies and leaves behind malicious code that corrupts the world, was mind-blowing. It was current, original, well thought out, and flawlessly executed -- but (insert record scratch here) the further Daemon got from Sobol's death, the more and more unbelievable it became, almost to the point of sparkling vampires , which in this book's case was self-driving samurai sword wielding motorcycles . Even before the book devol This book's premise, that a genius-programmer/Nega-Steve-Jobs named Matthew Sobol dies and leaves behind malicious code that corrupts the world, was mind-blowing. It was current, original, well thought out, and flawlessly executed -- but (insert record scratch here) the further Daemon got from Sobol's death, the more and more unbelievable it became, almost to the point of sparkling vampires , which in this book's case was self-driving samurai sword wielding motorcycles . Even before the book devolved into theater of the absurd, there were stress fractures. In the middle of the book, we disengage from one protagonist (view spoiler) [when Detective Peter Sebeck, the main protagonist, is executed (hide spoiler) ] , skip weeks and months into the future, and continue on, rudderless, visiting various secondary characters until eventually circling back to a second protagonist, who participates in an unsatisfying climax of epic proportions (view spoiler) [the mostly meaningless death of Agent Roy Merritt at the hands of The Major (hide spoiler) ] . Equally frustrating is that two of the most fleshed out characters are hacker Jon Ross, who has a mysterious past, but no character resolution, and the dastardly villain/Daemon-disciple Brian Gragg, whose only character arc is to get more evil as he gets more powerful. Don't start this book unless you are prepared to commit to reading its sequel, Freedom (TM) , as there is no closure in this first volume. I can't decide if I will pick up its successor -- on one hand, I want to see how this story ends, but on the other, it has become so ludicrous, I'm not sure I could get through it. ...more Kind of Dan Brown-esque but with a fun geek twist. And the geek in me enjoyed it. Would have given it four stars, but I didn't love the ending. It was a truly interesting premise though: A computer programmer dies of cancer and leaves behind a program that kicks into life when it sees his obituary in the news, and wreaks havoc with some unknown goal in sight. In the first half of the book I had a lot of fun trying to imagine the program that Sobol wrote. It was basically a big logic tree, where e Kind of Dan Brown-esque but with a fun geek twist. And the geek in me enjoyed it. Would have given it four stars, but I didn't love the ending. It was a truly interesting premise though: A computer programmer dies of cancer and leaves behind a program that kicks into life when it sees his obituary in the news, and wreaks havoc with some unknown goal in sight. In the first half of the book I had a lot of fun trying to imagine the program that Sobol wrote. It was basically a big logic tree, where each possibly outcome in the real world was accounted for in the program. It would have taken a lot of preparation and attention to detail to go through all the possible outcomes and not missing anything, and one bug could make the whole thing fail. Wouldn't that be embarrassing? I guess Sobol had some good unit tests? In the second half of the book (trying to not give anything away), the AI goes beyond what I think a skilled programmer could do today. Certainly an interesting thought exercise, but playing up a little bit too much on our fear of \"oh my gosh all information is digital now so a hacker could just take out our whole society!\" Many a hacker has stayed up all night with the same thoughts! What I really want to know is where I can get some of those voice projector/sensors? They sound cool! ...more", "Title": "Daemon"},
