{"Comments": "Oh, frack it. I\u2019ve started and deleted and restarted this review too many times already. <---A>Dan Simmons</---A>\u2019 Ilium and <+++>Olympos</+++> have left me speechless. (If you ask my wife, you\u2019ll discover that\u2019s a rare occurrence indeed.) I don\u2019t think I can put together an entirely coherent review, much less something with any significant insight on the author\u2019s ideas. So I\u2019ll just share what I\u2019m able to get out in a little solitary brainstorming session. First of all, you have to realize that <+++>Olympos</+++> isn\u2019t merely Oh, frack it. I\u2019ve started and deleted and restarted this review too many times already. Dan Simmons\u2019 Ilium and Olympos have left me speechless. (If you ask my wife, you\u2019ll discover that\u2019s a rare occurrence indeed.) I don\u2019t think I can put together an entirely coherent review, much less something with any significant insight on the author\u2019s ideas. So I\u2019ll just share what I\u2019m able to get out in a little solitary brainstorming session. First of all, you have to realize that Olympos isn\u2019t merely the sequel to Ilium ; neither book is complete without the other and I must review them together. That bugs me insofar as I like the idea of a book standing on its own. Prequels and sequels and subsequesequels (that should be a word, yes?) are fine and dandy\u2014indeed I encourage them so long as the author doesn\u2019t screw it all up with some lazy cop-out\u2014but each book,<---M> or at least the first book</---M>, should be able to stand on its own. Ian Tregillis\u2019 Bitter Seeds is a good example of a book that clearly leaves the door open to be part of a larger series but stands on its own as a satisfying story. I can see how Dan Simmons wanted Ilium to stand on its own, how he left the story at a good place to pause, but that\u2019s all it was: a good place to pause. Ilium by itself simply is not a satisfying read. And it\u2019s too bad, really, because Ilium is fucking brilliant\u2014I was stunned by the breadth of imagination and creativity expressed while maintaining depth and quality of character\u2014you\u2019ll read nothing like it, I guarantee. But I give it four stars because it doesn\u2019t stand on its own. Olympos gets three stars because it also doesn\u2019t stand on its own and because it\u2019s just not as good as Ilium , which seems to be the near-universal consensus if GR reviews are to be trusted. (Admittedly, I gave five stars to Dan Simmons\u2019 other epic work, Hyperion , despite the fact that it doesn\u2019t stand on its own. Hyperion , however, is different, and someday when I review Hyperion properly I\u2019ll explain why.) Second thing you have to realize is that Ilium and Olympos are long, grueling, complex, at times tedious ... oh, did I mention they\u2019re long? Put together they are 1,664 pages in paperback or 1,296 in hardback. I read both books on the iPhone Kindle app and, let me tell you, it was A LOT of page turning. Still, I don\u2019t have a problem with length if it\u2019s needed and if the story is worth it. In this case, the main story arc is complex enough to justify a great deal of length by itself, but the author threw in sub-plots and side-plots that, although interesting, when all was said and done, served to lengthen the books without adding significantly adding to the books. Now, having said all that, Ilium and Olympos were fascinating, original, creative, challenging, and, in the end, rewarding. I put a lot of time, and expended a good deal of mental energy, into reading and understanding these books and I\u2019m glad I did. The author\u2019s central idea around which he crafted the Ilium Universe is intriguing, to say the least, and presents some awesome opportunities for original world-building. (view spoiler) [Okay, I'm trying out the new embeded spoiler function here. Dan Simmons' idea is that, when the mental energy of some super-genius writer, like Homer or Shakespeare, is focused sufficiently, that energy pops off into a new universe where the writer's imagined story comes true. So, when Homer wrote the Iliad , a universe popped into existence full of Greeks and Trojans fighting and killing each other. When Shakespeare wrote The Tempsest , that also came true in its own universe. The characters from Homer's Iliad and Shakespeare's Tempest play central roles in Dan Simmons' story. (hide spoiler) ] So doesn\u2019t that mean they\u2019re good books? Isn\u2019t that why we read books? To be challenged and rewarded? To learn new ideas? And if we\u2019re glad we read something, then what\u2019s the problem? I\u2019ll tell you the problem: I\u2019m stuck in Dan Simmons\u2019 goddamn self-indulgent head-trip of a universe.<---F> That\u2019s the fucking problem</---F>. The books were so loooong and so complex that, now that I\u2019m done, I don\u2019t know what to do with myself. I was roommates with the main characters, whether they be ancient human, old-style human, post-human, moravec, or god (it\u2019s hard to explain ... you just have to read it) and, now that I\u2019ve moved out, I\u2019m finding it difficult to make new friends. I need a literary pallet cleanser. I need a new best friend. I need to move on. Any recommendations? ...more I enjoyed the beginning of this book as it picks up where Ilium left off. Leading up to about the middle of the book the story line is interesting and exciting. And then wham! Stinky turds from there on out. The rest of the story is a classic example of everything I can't stand about bad science fiction. No or very little insight into the science... The author just assumes you know what the *+!? he is talking about. So many people and characters interacting in blurry loops of potential meaning tha I enjoyed the beginning of this book as it picks up where Ilium left off. Leading up to about the middle of the book the story line is interesting and exciting. And then wham! Stinky turds from there on out. The rest of the story is a classic example of everything I can't stand about bad science fiction. No or very little insight into the science... The author just assumes you know what the *+!? he is talking about. So many people and characters interacting in blurry loops of potential meaning that go nowhere. For example about 5/8 the way through you are introduced to a \"historical\" character named Ahman Ferdinand Mark Alonzo Khan Ho Tep! (Say that three times fast) I'm sorry but as a reader I'm so tired of being brutalized by authors with names like this. Crap like this even makes skimming irritating. Characters reintroduced/reincarnated after having their heads bitten off - the only difference is now their boobs don't sag. Chapter 91: You get to enjoy the back seat activities of two teenage characters you've never even been introduced to. Oh come on! If I wanted to read this kind of shit it's all over the internet or TV. I LOVED Hyperion. This \"series\" isn't worth the paper it's printed on and unfortunately you'd give yourself a paper cut on your bunghole if you used this book properly. ...more (Contains spoilers towards the end) This is my least favorite book. It's not the worst book I've ever read. \"Manos: The Hands of Fate\" is perhaps the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's not my least favorite. It takes more than simple technical ineptness to rise (or sink) to the rank of my least favorite. A least favorite work needs to commit some special crime. Olympos' crime is that it took the plot threads of Ilium, one of the top two or three most creative and ambitious science fiction books (Contains spoilers towards the end) This is my least favorite book. It's not the worst book I've ever read. \"Manos: The Hands of Fate\" is perhaps the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's not my least favorite. It takes more than simple technical ineptness to rise (or sink) to the rank of my least favorite. A least favorite work needs to commit some special crime. Olympos' crime is that it took the plot threads of Ilium, one of the top two or three most creative and ambitious science fiction books I've yet encountered, and bungled them to an astonishing, almost insulting degree. Ilium, as I've just said, is an incredible book. It's perhaps Simmons' most imaginative work so far, and that's saying something. In what other single book can you find posthumans posing as Greek gods on Mars, intelligent machines discussing literature on the moons of Jupiter, a legendary Greek hero hunting prehistoric mammals on the pampas of South America, and a society of pampered partiers to whom getting devoured by an Allosaurus causes scarcely more of an inconvenience than a bad hangover? And that's just the tip of that book's iceberg of wonderful and unlikely inventions. All of these unusual and fascinating things are packaged into three more or less distinct storylines, each of them exciting, purposeful, and compelling. I found the Caliban sequence towards the end to be a somewhat abrupt and strange change of pace, but I could live with it. When I put the book down, I could not wait to dive into the sequel. It was bad. Hockenberry's tale in Ilium was exhilarating. Hockenberry, a seemingly rather weak character, through deception, desperation, and pure ballsiness managed the manipulate the Greeks and Trojans into turning their war against the cruel posthuman Gods. He's not given anything nearly as interesting or compelling to do here. In fact, besides flying halfway to Earth with the Moravecs and then deciding to teleport back, I don't remember him doing much of anything notable. As I found his story in Ilium to be especially compelling, this was a real let down. Simmons instead chose to spend much of his time on the Greek side of things with Achilles and his campaign against the gods. Which is unfortunate, because Achilles really does not have the depth to carry such storyline weight. Olympos should have stuck with the continuing story arcs from Ilium rather than focusing so much time and energy on this. But, it turns out, that's what Olympos does. It sidetracks. It goes on tangents, abandoning the story arcs that made Ilium so compelling. Take Harman's storyline, for example. For the most part, it is rather interesting, and actually does contribute to the story and our knowledge of the mythos of this world. However, near the end of his journey his story arc veers wildly off course to focus on a wrecked submarine containing black hole bombs. Where did that come from? How did that contribute in any way to the plot? What mysteries did that solve? With so many interesting possibilities in this wonderful setting, why did Dan Simmons choose this non-sequiter as the climactic moment for one of his main characters? It makes me want to tear my hair out! That is another thing Olympos does: introduce things at the last minute. We finally meet Syxorax/Circe well towards the end of the book, after hearing so much about her. Her scenes do nothing to explain things, and in fact only serve to make it less clear exactly how the <---C>Odysseus</---C> of the Trojan war became the Odysseus that Harman and company encounter on Earth. Introducing an important character like that with only a small fraction of pages left makes things feel very cramped towards the end. In fact, the entire last section of the book felt very rushed and crampled; I was reading the half-hearted and generic epilogue almost before I even realized it. I'm just getting started with the laundry list of things that frustrate me to no end about Olympos, but by now I'm getting tired of typing and you may well be tired of reading, so I'll keep the rest brief. Major conflicts peter out to nothing. Setebos, who seems to be the ultimate evil of this story, flees and vanishes without a fight. In the final showdown between Caliban and Daemen, nothing more climactic happens than Caliban uttering a few more of his inscrutable verses. Even Zeus' demise felt meaningless and disappointing. Childishly gross as well, honestly. And finally, most of the major mysteries put forth by Ilium never get solved. I still don't know how or why the Posts of Earth became the Gods of Olympos. I still don't know how Odysseus ended up on Earth. An explanation is put forth as to where the alternate ancient Greek Earth came from, but I found it extremely weak and unsatisfying. An afterthought. Dan Simmons throwing up his hands and admitting that he doesn't know. So yeah, this is a rather long review. But, my frustration and contempt for this book has been stewing in me for years, and I needed the catharsis of getting it all out in a place where others could perhaps commiserate with me. Thanks for reading, and may all sequels you read be better than this one. ...more MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD I have tremendous problems with this book, not the least of which is that I wanted to enjoy it so badly. Simmons has a talent for writing good scenes and decent characters, but the overall structure of this book is so sloppy and disappointing that I can't help but feel cheated. I felt this way at the end of Rise of Endymion as well, and I'm starting to think that it's systemic to all of his epic sci-fi narratives. He comes up with a neat idea, creates hint that he's going to MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD I have tremendous problems with this book, not the least of which is that I wanted to enjoy it so badly. Simmons has a talent for writing good scenes and decent characters, but the overall structure of this book is so sloppy and disappointing that I can't help but feel cheated. I felt this way at the end of Rise of Endymion as well, and I'm starting to think that it's systemic to all of his epic sci-fi narratives. He comes up with a neat idea, creates hint that he's going to explain everything at the end, and after thousands of pages arbitrarily ends things without any sense of resolution. What was this book about? What was the conflict? You begin thinking that it's about the gods of Olympos and the quantum disturbances they're creating that threaten the very existence of the solar system. Okay. But then it turns out that the Olympian gods are pawns of larger gods or Gods, including Setebos and Prospero. At this point I'm enjoying the direction of the book, thinking that events will hinge on what these larger gods are planning. But then, with a little more than 200 pages left in the combined 1700 pages of Ilium/Olympos, a heretofore unmentioned 2500-year-old Islamic submarine carrying 700 mini black holes becomes the focus. While the submarine is being taken care of, Setebos just... goes away. Zeus' out-of-nowhere desire to become the One God of the Universe is foiled by Achilles and Hephaestus begins his reign on Olympos, clearing up those pesky quantum disturbances from way back in the book as an afterthought. There were so many unnecessary elements. Where was Simmons' editor in all of this? You could have cut out anything to do with Sycorax and Odysseus, and the narrative wouldn't have changed. You could have deleted almost everything going on with the Trojans and Achaens and the only thing that would have been affected would have been Achilles killing Zeus at the end. But that didn't matter either, because there's no reason for the gods' storyline either. They were post-humans, now they're gods, maybe there are larger forces at play. That's the sum total of the gods in the course of the story. If I may, a partial list of things that are set up but never resolved: -Why did Prospero want to elevate the post-humans to god status? -If each universe is created by \"singular genius,\" wouldn't the Greek gods already exist in the universe the Trojans and Achaens come from? In fact, why did the post-humans choose the Iliad to recreate at all? -What the hell was the point of the Titan war at the end? -Why did Zeus all of a sudden want to become the One God? There's no mention of this desire anywhere in the book. -Who was the Quiet? It's mentioned for 1000+ pages, and then without showing up, everything is resolved when Setebos senses it coming and runs away. -Why didn't Daeman and Caliban get to fight when they meet at the end? -Why did Hephaestus put all of the humans into a blue tachyon beam on Ilium-Earth? -Why were the voynix afraid of the Setebos egg? I could go on. It seems like Simmons is okay with the explanation for any of these events being \"for some reason.\" I guess it's deeper and more ambiguous that way. I don't think I'd be nearly this upset if the promise of Ilium/Olympos hadn't been so great. I gave the first book 5 stars, and I stand by that. The setup was incredible. The individual parts are amazing. But the whole is so utterly disappointing as to make me angry. ...more Mind-blowing, adrenaline-pumping, world-expanding science fiction at its very best. Dan Simmons has big ideas and grand schemes, and he is never content to simply tell a story; no, he must weave it into our own reality in a seamless fashion, reaching backward and forward in time and literature. In this story (I\u2019m grouping the previous book, Ilium, into the \u201cstory\u201d), he brings together Shakespeare, Homer, Proust, quantum teleportation, terraforming, robots, and so much more. Each new bit that unf Mind-blowing, adrenaline-pumping, world-expanding science fiction at its very best. Dan Simmons has big ideas and grand schemes, and he is never content to simply tell a story; no, he must weave it into our own reality in a seamless fashion, reaching backward and forward in time and literature. In this story (I\u2019m grouping the previous book, Ilium, into the \u201cstory\u201d), he brings together Shakespeare, Homer, Proust, quantum teleportation, terraforming, robots, and so much more. Each new bit that unfolds reveals new amazements, filled with both horror and wonder. I definitely recommend both Ilium and Olympos to any fan of science fiction. Or Greek/Trojan history. Or Shakespeare. Or ignore all of the connections and enjoy it for its own sake! ...more didn't answer anything. the quite one didn't show up. setebos just left. islamophobia left a bad taste in my mind. This was too long, but so worth the long hours. Dan Simmons' Olympos consists mainly in two threads. In the one, most of our various characters (Harman and Daeman, the moravecs, Odysseus, Achilles, et al) undertake long journeys in time and space, bringing them at an unbearably slow pace towards the future Earth. On these journeys, they endure various ordeals of little consequence, and a great deal of nothing occurs and is described at great length and in extraordinary detail by Simmons. In the other thread, we are treated to pages and pages Dan Simmons' Olympos consists mainly in two threads. In the one, most of our various characters (Harman and Daeman, the moravecs, Odysseus, Achilles, et al) undertake long journeys in time and space, bringing them at an unbearably slow pace towards the future Earth. On these journeys, they endure various ordeals of little consequence, and a great deal of nothing occurs and is described at great length and in extraordinary detail by Simmons. In the other thread, we are treated to pages and pages of expository monologues from Prospero, Moira, Harman and others as Simmons attempts to explain just what the fuck is going on and unload the enormous backstory omitted from the largely-incomprehensible Ilium . This exposition is heavy-handed and clumsy. Explanations proffered for the events we have followed and wondered about for over a thousand pages vary from merely stupid to jaw-droppingly, cringe-inducingly idiotic. Simmons repeatedly \"solves\" mysteries he has been building since the first page of Ilium in a single tossed-off sentence or paragraph. His explanation of the voynix (complete with unnecessary and unconvincing connection to the Voynich Manuscript) in particular is not just unsatisfying but infuriating, while I actually had to put the book down and walk away after he tried to explain Setebos through World As Myth bullshit stolen from Robert Heinlein and mixed with New Agey quantum mysticism. A word on mechanics. Simmons's prose is by and large effective, and deserves no special praise or blame. Where the story falls is in the construction of the plot, which in addition to its overall incoherence proceeds in fits and starts, with long stretches of inaction punctuated by world-changing events treated in brief. Both gods and machines regularly serve as dei ex machinae , with characters brought together on the thinnest of pretexts to haul one another out of intractable jams. The novel's conclusion is full of these convenient escapes, plot holes and simple omissions, and several major threads are left unresolved. Simmons' fascination with juvenilia is a distraction and regularly breaks the flow of the narrative, ranging\u00a0from fart jokes and locker-room obscenities in the mouths of Greek gods to pervasive, explicit descriptions of sex (including rape and thousand-year-old entities in 16-year-old bodies) and of nude bodies, done throughout in a register not just clinical but often creepy. Simmons' literary approach to science fiction does deserve praise and is something I would like to see more of. He has a strong familiarity with Homer, Shakespeare and Proust, although I was annoyed by many egregious errors in his use of Greek. Unfortunately, Simmons' sometimes-delightful festival of allusion is hamstrung by his failure to convincingly integrate the use of literary connections by his characters and in his backstory into the plot. Both literary allusion and descriptions of sexuality carry the sense that the author feels he is getting away with something, delivered with a smirk and a self-congratulatory chuckle. While his audaciously-literate story occasionally soars, it never reaches the joyful madness it could have had in the hands of a writer like Roger Zelazny (of whom more below) or Umberto Eco, someone who understood and reveled in its absurdity. Simmons takes himself far too seriously. I mention Roger Zelazny because Ilium and Olympos really demand comparison to his classic, Hugo-winning Lord of Light . There are so many similarities between the novels \u2014\u00a0the post-human, nanotech-infused gods recreating mythology, the elaborate literary allusions, the domed/forcefield-protected citadel on an inhospitable mountaintop, the oppressed, preindustrial populace reincarnating through \"divine\" machines, the war between gods and men, the final injection of Christianity into the conflict \u2014 that I cannot help but think Simmons is straight-up lifting from Zelazny. So how do the two stories stack up? On my reading, Lord of Light wins on virtually every dimension. It is much, much shorter, at about 300 pages against close to 1800 for Ilium and Olympos together. It is tightly plotted. Although like Simmons' epic the story is convoluted in time, it ultimately makes more sense and is far better structured. It is funnier and spends more time enjoying its own audacity. Zelazny's use of mythology (Hindu and Buddhist, in this case) and literature is woven more effectively into the structure of the novel than Simmons' bizarre combination of Homer, Shakespeare and nonsense. Zelazny is happy to handwave most of the science behind his creation, avoiding Simmons' ad-nauseum repetition of the words \"quantum\" and \"Calabi-Yau\", well-defined scientific terms whose meanings I don't believe Simmons understands. Above all, Zelazny embraced the lunacy he created. Lord of Light is joyful, funny, occasionally insightful and always mad, with none of the cringing, self-conscious titillation of Olympos . It's simply a better novel and a more enjoyable read. ...more A very ambitious science fiction duology (Olympos being the direct sequel to Ilium). (MILD SPOILERS AHEAD:) This is a multi-universe far-future epic involving Greek gods and Homeric heroes, Artificial Intelligences obsessed with Proust, nanotech-enhanced posthumans, a resurrected Professor of Classics from the 20th century that attempts to seduce Helen of Troy, anti-semitic killer robots, characters from Shakespeare that have come to life due to Quantum-wave parallel universe framistatwhatsits ( A very ambitious science fiction duology (Olympos being the direct sequel to Ilium). (MILD SPOILERS AHEAD:) This is a multi-universe far-future epic involving Greek gods and Homeric heroes, Artificial Intelligences obsessed with Proust, nanotech-enhanced posthumans, a resurrected Professor of Classics from the 20th century that attempts to seduce Helen of Troy, anti-semitic killer robots, characters from Shakespeare that have come to life due to Quantum-wave parallel universe framistatwhatsits (apparently Quantum=Magic), bloody battles, and evil telepathic brain-monsters. While fascinating and stimulating as a whole, the ending of this novel seems very hurried, with some rather anti-climactic climaxes, and is lacking in some promised explanations of certain phenomena, and has several characters act oddly with only some vague explanation. I also want to repeat here an observation made by another reviewer whose name I cannot remember: almost all the female characters in the book are described primarily through the size, shape, and consistency of their breasts. Simmons has written books with excellent, strong female characters. But he's rather gotten into the spirit of the Heroic Age of Achilles , though there are a couple of female characters in the story that are three-dimensional, including, in my opinion, Helen of Troy. I honestly wonder if Simmons went a bit mad during the writing of this book, as plot threads were incoherently unresolved, characters suddenly leave the story, foreshadowed entities never appear, and his politics suddenly enter the story out of nowhere, seemingly only so he can point out that Islamic Jihadists are evil. What does this have to do with posthumans, quantum gods, and Shakespeare? Nothing really. A disappointing mess. Perhaps it could be rescued if Simmons were to write a third book, but that doesn't seem likely. ...more Welllll... I just can't get excited about this book now that it's over. After wading through 900 dense pages of literary influenced sci-fi, I feel a little cheated by where we ended up. Harman's journey into what was supposed to be the Earth's past (our future, I guess) was pretty dull considering the tantalizing hints Simmons drops. I love the idea, for example, that a Global Caliphate arose sometime in the 22nd Century, developed time travel and quantum spacetime science, and destroyed the bul Welllll... I just can't get excited about this book now that it's over. After wading through 900 dense pages of literary influenced sci-fi, I feel a little cheated by where we ended up. Harman's journey into what was supposed to be the Earth's past (our future, I guess) was pretty dull considering the tantalizing hints Simmons drops. I love the idea, for example, that a Global Caliphate arose sometime in the 22nd Century, developed time travel and quantum spacetime science, and destroyed the bulk of civilization with a virus targeted at killing non-Muslims. That's comedy GOLD right there. What's missing is the \"so what?\" Ultimately where our Earthen characters end up is so arbitrarily decided that it robs you of any real satisfaction for the closure. It seems that Simmons abandons his literary template for quick resolutions... and by page 800, you crave them anyway. It's ultimately unsatisfying if not for the allegorical comparisons between Shakespeare, Homer, Virgil, and other classic epic poets and those poets' effects on a future full of quantum teleportation, moravecs, and black holes. But as fun as that can be, it doesn't help move a plot anywhere. Sadly, there was a ton of potential in this story. The fates of so many characters could have been much better handled to much more satisfying ends (WTF was up with that shit between Odysseus and Sycorax???). Oh well. ...more I was disappointed in this book. It's sad, because Ilium was so promising. But I found this a real let-down conclusion to a probably over-ambitious beginning. Perhaps I had too high of hopes, because if anybody could have pulled off a conclusion to such an ambitious start, it would have been Simmons. This novel seemed like a jumble of cool ideas thrown in together and stirred. They were all individually fascinating, but they didn't come together into anything... Well, \"story shaped\" (to steal Nei I was disappointed in this book. It's sad, because Ilium was so promising. But I found this a real let-down conclusion to a probably over-ambitious beginning. Perhaps I had too high of hopes, because if anybody could have pulled off a conclusion to such an ambitious start, it would have been Simmons. This novel seemed like a jumble of cool ideas thrown in together and stirred. They were all individually fascinating, but they didn't come together into anything... Well, \"story shaped\" (to steal Neil Gaiman 's turn of phrase). The disparate plot threads diverged into even more disparateness, the backplot was hinted at but not drawn into anything coherent, the characters didn't come to satisfactory conclusions, plot lines initiated in the first book were discarded, entities were multiplied without cause, and things that seemed like fascinating mysteries in the first book turned out to be merely blenders on legs. Subtlety gave way to bloodbaths. That said, Simmons is a master, and even his off days are better than many people's best efforts. So I enjoyed it on a page to page basis. It's just the whole that left me feeling unfulfilled. A bit like dining exclusively on fois gras and creme mints. Lovely individually, but a bit discordant together. And definitely not a wholesome meal. ...more Sometimes, life gets in the way of reading, and it takes a month to read a 900 page book. It can be frustrating to not have the time to absorb long sections, and there is the possibility of forgetting what was happening, resulting in feeling completely lost. But other times, dragging out consumption of a novel can make a reader (or me, anyway) actually feel even more immersed in the story. Over the course of reading Ilium and Olympos, I've spent a fair amount of real time in the world Dan Simmon Sometimes, life gets in the way of reading, and it takes a month to read a 900 page book. It can be frustrating to not have the time to absorb long sections, and there is the possibility of forgetting what was happening, resulting in feeling completely lost. But other times, dragging out consumption of a novel can make a reader (or me, anyway) actually feel even more immersed in the story. Over the course of reading Ilium and Olympos, I've spent a fair amount of real time in the world Dan Simmons created. Now, it's going to be hard to move on. These novels won't be for everyone (what book is?), yet they reached a special place for me. There is SO MUCH happening, and it's hard to follow some of it, but that's part of the brilliance, in watching it all come together. Time and again I wondered where the author came up with all of his ideas, because even the most outlandish were fascinating. The combination of quality literature, classic literature appreciation, science fiction, and mythology present here is wholly unique, and I loved it. I'm not sure the ending was the best, but it would be nearly impossible to tie up all of the loose ends in a completely satisfactory way. I'll take it. ...more What a complete disappointment!! Ilium was amazing, beautiful, epic story-telling, but Olympos was just a complete boring mess. I kept thinking it would get back on track, but it didn't. NOTHING was explained. Don't read this if you are looking for answers from the questions in Ilium, you won't get them. There are even two characters in the story that actually do know what's going on and can answer questions, but they refuse to and just wink at each other knowingly. Kind of insulting to your rea What a complete disappointment!! Ilium was amazing, beautiful, epic story-telling, but Olympos was just a complete boring mess. I kept thinking it would get back on track, but it didn't. NOTHING was explained. Don't read this if you are looking for answers from the questions in Ilium, you won't get them. There are even two characters in the story that actually do know what's going on and can answer questions, but they refuse to and just wink at each other knowingly. Kind of insulting to your reader if you ask me. The only redeeming thing about Olympos was the moravecs, who are the only characters through these two books with a clear story line to them. The annoying thing about Dan Simmons is that he changes the style of his writing from book to book. Which is fine in itself, but not in the middle of a series when you've already spend 800+ pages getting used to a particular narrative style, format and flow to the story, and then to change it so dramatically is jarring and took me completely out of the story. He did this with the Hyperion books too, but not to this dramatic extent. SPOILERS BELOW!!! Then there are the overlong battle scenes. Then there are the overlong debates with the Greek generals. I know he was paying homage to Homer, but good lord! And then a new character introduced 100 pages from the end, but never explained and just sails off into space. And there was the ridiculous-looking Big Bad that just disappears (???) And the promised ultimate Big Bad looming in the aether that never shows up (???) And the chapter with of two teenagers having sex in a car in 1950-whatever (???) ...more I almost couldn't believe this book was written by the same author as Hyperion and Ilium. The various plots meandered while none of the big mysteries were answered. And where did all the misogynism come from? Simmons has always written such strong female characters. Suddenly Helen of Troy is calling herself a cunt and the formerly powerful/strong modern-day human female characters are suddenly crying and moody all of the time, while the men take front-seat on the adventures. And the Goddesses al I almost couldn't believe this book was written by the same author as Hyperion and Ilium. The various plots meandered while none of the big mysteries were answered. And where did all the misogynism come from? Simmons has always written such strong female characters. Suddenly Helen of Troy is calling herself a cunt and the formerly powerful/strong modern-day human female characters are suddenly crying and moody all of the time, while the men take front-seat on the adventures. And the Goddesses all become slutty, contemptible temptresses. The term \"bitch\" gets thrown around way too often by Achilles and the gods. Oh, and worst of all, there's a male character that is forced by a wizard to rape a sleeping female character in chryo-sleep because his ejaculate is the only way to wake her. And it's critical to the survival of the Earth for her to be awakened. So the dude wretches and forces himself to do the horrible deed. And hundreds of pages later at the end of the book the awakened female character has literally made no contribution to the plot. She pops into the picture and just walks around with an invisibility cloak on occasionally. What happened to her being the most important piece to human survival? Then there are anti-Islam and anti-gay slurs in the last 1/3 of the book. Not to mention his absurd over-use of the term \"interdict.\" I didn't count, but I bet it was in the hundreds. This book really disappointed me on a number of levels. I'll be very cautious before picking up anything new he writes. ...more Even though I really enjoyed the first book of this duo-logy, the comments in the review section at Amazon.com were less than stellar. However, I couldn't pass up the chance to follow all the characters I had rapidly come to know in Ilium. I'm glad that I disregarded all of those comments. While this rating is more a 4.5 (I thought the sex scenes were over the top and unnecessary) I still thought the book was really good. Some of the reviews I read complained about things not being explained ful Even though I really enjoyed the first book of this duo-logy, the comments in the review section at Amazon.com were less than stellar. However, I couldn't pass up the chance to follow all the characters I had rapidly come to know in Ilium. I'm glad that I disregarded all of those comments. While this rating is more a 4.5 (I thought the sex scenes were over the top and unnecessary) I still thought the book was really good. Some of the reviews I read complained about things not being explained fully, and while I found that to be somewhat true, I thought that enough was explained to leave me satisfied. Further, I thought there was enough information given that inferences can be made about everything else (Odysseus possibly excepted). I blew through both Ilium and Olympos in about a week and a half of reading; a testament to the powerful story telling of Dan Simmons. ...more Fascinating, creative, and epic. Got a bit racy at parts, and I found myself skipping pages...however, it was well worth the read. Long, drawn out, and complex, I enjoyed this novel. Like Ilium , Olympos is a mixed bag for me. On the one hand, it is a truly impressive collection of literary references and obviously the result of a ton of research. Simmons brings together Shakespeare, Proust, Robert Browning, Nabokov, Joyce, Homer, Virgil, and other major literary figures to frame his world. On the other hand, I have the same complaint that I had with Ilium : the characters aren't that riveting. There is more character development in this second book, especially when the old-st Like Ilium , Olympos is a mixed bag for me. On the one hand, it is a truly impressive collection of literary references and obviously the result of a ton of research. Simmons brings together Shakespeare, Proust, Robert Browning, Nabokov, Joyce, Homer, Virgil, and other major literary figures to frame his world. On the other hand, I have the same complaint that I had with Ilium : the characters aren't that riveting. There is more character development in this second book, especially when the old-style humans leave behind their life of leisure and start struggling for survival. Ada, Daeman, and Harman all become more interesting as their lives become harder. In other words, conflict is more interesting than no conflict. My other complaint has to do with the treatment of women in the novel. The thing about all those literary giants who literally shaped the various worlds (and there are multiple universes involved here) in Ilium and Olympos ? They are all dudes. Specifically of the very traditional dead white dude canon. Emily Dickinson is name-dropped once, and an unnamed female poet of the twenty-first century is referenced once.* Simmons also thanks Harold Bloom in his acknowledgments. I have nothing against Harold Bloom, but he is a very traditional literary theorist who tends to defend the very traditional dead white dude canon. I found this reliance on conservative literary values a strange juxtaposition to the truly mind-blowing sci-fi ideas in the novel. At one point, a character dying of radiation poisoning weeps because he will never see a Shakespearean play performed. Commence eye-rolling. Female characters don't make out much better. Women are ranked as more beautiful than one but less than another. Ada sees a fair amount of development in the second novel, but most of the female characters are opaque, sexually monstrous, or tagging along after the men like puppy dogs. In short, the sexism in the book took me out of the experience of the rather brilliant science fiction ideas. *Simmons names this poet in his afterword, but not in the main text. ...more (abandoned halfway through) The actual story is a solid 3 stars - vaguely interesting characters, a complicated world, etc. I actually rather want to find Ilium now and read it, because I feel that it might be orders of magnitude better. As a standalone book, this is shit - things, characters and events from the first one are mentioned but not adequately explained (example: calibani are smaller and weaker versions of Caliban; first mention is pretty early in the book, but first, albeit partial, *d (abandoned halfway through) The actual story is a solid 3 stars - vaguely interesting characters, a complicated world, etc. I actually rather want to find Ilium now and read it, because I feel that it might be orders of magnitude better. As a standalone book, this is shit - things, characters and events from the first one are mentioned but not adequately explained (example: calibani are smaller and weaker versions of Caliban; first mention is pretty early in the book, but first, albeit partial, *description* of one of these things is after they've been talked about for 300 pages) But what really kills it is the writing (or maybe just really, really shitty editing) This is a physical book, so i haven't marked very many extremely cringe-worthy quotes, but here are a few glorious examples: * \"he pushed her away, but she had already danced out of range\" (what does it even mean? I didn't write this one down so wording may be slightly changed) * \"about twenty kilometers long, roughly the size of their Lost Era city of Manhattan\" (this is like using \"the size of noah's ark\" instead of \"4 football fields\" in modern conversation - these describe roughly the same area, but it's an utterly meaningless utterance within context) * \"escape velocity from the moon Phobos is a mere 10 cm/sec, but the Queen Mab quickly kicks herself up to 20km/sec acceleration in order to start the process of climbing up and out of Mars' gravity\" (Phobos' escape velocity is closer to 12. Acceleration is in distance per second per second. Mars' escape velocity is about 5km/sec, but that number is the speed you have to start with on the planet's surface to make it out to space with no additional acceleration, so \"20 to start\" is, uh, what?) I may come back to this again in the distant future, after reading the first book, but generally would highly recommend you to stay away. Edit: Oh god, I've read some of the other spoilerific reviews. This thing is rapidly approaching my burn-before-reading list. The moral being, apparently, \"stay away from Simmons' sequels\" ...more The Ilium/Olympos duology is some of the most fantastic sci-fi that I have read for ages. The depth and breadth of the story is so utterly satisfying that it puts other books to shame. Ilium is difficult to get into to start with as the three different main story strands don't really start to relate to each other until 3/4 of the way into the book which makes things a bit confusing and difficult to keep up with. The story comes into its own in Olympos, and unlike a lot of Simmons characters, you The Ilium/Olympos duology is some of the most fantastic sci-fi that I have read for ages. The depth and breadth of the story is so utterly satisfying that it puts other books to shame. Ilium is difficult to get into to start with as the three different main story strands don't really start to relate to each other until 3/4 of the way into the book which makes things a bit confusing and difficult to keep up with. The story comes into its own in Olympos, and unlike a lot of Simmons characters, you really start to feel empathy with a number of the characters in the novel. What is most interesting is that the least human characters, the Moravecs, are definitely the most human in personality, which is probably a deliberate turn on Simmons part to emphasize how far human life on earth has changed. The old-style eloi humans really are incredibly childlike and to see them take on evil in their paradise when things come crashing down is fascinating although I was never quite clear whether it was the Moravecs or the calibani that were the Morlocks to their Eloi. The creeping horror of the Setebos gave me nightmares, Simmons is a master of horror within sci-fi, and the mixture of greek mythology and Shakespearean characters was fascinating. It should have been an ugly mess, but it wasn't at all. I love these books and I would highly recommend them to anyone into sci fi with a grounding in Greek mythology, Shakespearean plays (particularly The Tempest). Wonderful mind expanding, gripping fiction! ...more I read this book very bittily, because I couldn't get into it very well. I thought it was okay. It was absorbing enough once I forced myself to concentrate on it. The technology, to my mind, made things a bit too easy. And if some things had been cut out, it would've made it more readable and made it make more sense . For example: why, if your only motivation so far has been to get back to your pregnant wife, and you have important information to deliver, would you go into a radioactive wreck whe I read this book very bittily, because I couldn't get into it very well. I thought it was okay. It was absorbing enough once I forced myself to concentrate on it. The technology, to my mind, made things a bit too easy. And if some things had been cut out, it would've made it more readable and made it make more sense . For example: why, if your only motivation so far has been to get back to your pregnant wife, and you have important information to deliver, would you go into a radioactive wreck where you know you'll receive a fatal dose of radiation, just out of curiosity ? You wouldn't. That threw me out of it. (Also, inaccuracies don't endear it to me. Calypso and Circe were not the same person. Odysseus stayed with Circe for a year on Aeaea, and she willingly let him go. Odysseus stayed with Calypso for seven years on Ogygia, and she had to be forced to let him go. If nothing else, look at the two different personalities there!) ...more The sequel to Dan Simmons' epic sci-fi space opera \"Ilium\", \"Olympos\" continues the story of 21st-century Professor Thomas Hockenberry, who has inexplicably been resurrected on Mars to be an observer of the Trojan War. Confused? So is he, and so is the reader for a considerable amount of time. Thankfully, in the deft hands of consummate storyteller Simmons, we begin to piece together what is happening in the universe. It's the distant future, and the Greek Gods have all returned to set up their The sequel to Dan Simmons' epic sci-fi space opera \"Ilium\", \"Olympos\" continues the story of 21st-century Professor Thomas Hockenberry, who has inexplicably been resurrected on Mars to be an observer of the Trojan War. Confused? So is he, and so is the reader for a considerable amount of time. Thankfully, in the deft hands of consummate storyteller Simmons, we begin to piece together what is happening in the universe. It's the distant future, and the Greek Gods have all returned to set up their new Mt. Olympos on Mars. Or are they really gods? And what about the humans on Earth? What is the creature calling itself Calaban? Who is this super-powerful being calling itself Prospero? There is a lot of crazy, wonderful stuff going on in this book, and Simmons does satisfy the reader's curiosity by answering some of the questions, but he also fuels the reader's desire for more by leaving a select few unanswered. Possible sequel? We can always hope... ...more WARNING: Not a spoiler, but the ending is talked about in extremely general terms. I loved the world, the characters, the premise, and the story. So why only three stars? Simmons really wanted to end the series in two books, but there was just too much there to really do so. The result was that Olympos lacked the strong sense of climax that Illium had, while also having a drawn out resolution that left Simmons running through time and space and alternate realities tying up all the loose ends. I u WARNING: Not a spoiler, but the ending is talked about in extremely general terms. I loved the world, the characters, the premise, and the story. So why only three stars? Simmons really wanted to end the series in two books, but there was just too much there to really do so. The result was that Olympos lacked the strong sense of climax that Illium had, while also having a drawn out resolution that left Simmons running through time and space and alternate realities tying up all the loose ends. I understand why only two books was conceptually important, but something had to give. Also, like the Hyperion Cantos, I noticed how the first book of each series has a strong horror/suspense element that is largely lost in the subsequent books. ...more Wow, what a weird book. The sentient robots from the asteroid belt were the most identifiable characters in it. It was definitely interesting at times, but the Trojan war bits dragged on. There are about 3 different plotlines that are seemingly unrelated. It is finally all explained, and it mostly makes sense. There were parts I really enjoyed and parts I didn't care for and some parts that were just bizarre. It took me forever to get through this. So is that a recommendation? Well, if you want Wow, what a weird book. The sentient robots from the asteroid belt were the most identifiable characters in it. It was definitely interesting at times, but the Trojan war bits dragged on. There are about 3 different plotlines that are seemingly unrelated. It is finally all explained, and it mostly makes sense. There were parts I really enjoyed and parts I didn't care for and some parts that were just bizarre. It took me forever to get through this. So is that a recommendation? Well, if you want to read a post-singularity novel you might like this. Or if you want to read about the most far-out imaginable \"post-human\" modifications. Or if you really, really enjoy reading about the Trojan War. ...more A fair finish to Ilium, and still a four-star book. The sheer insanity of Simmons's post-modern \"parallel universes glimpsed or created by mankind's geniuses\" premise is wonderful, although the history of how humanity fell (a war between the Global Caliphate and a new Khanate and the near-extermination of the Jews) jarred. I feel like it would have been better left ambiguous, although I can see the argument that the specificity serves as a link between our time and the new fall of man. The Sword A fair finish to Ilium, and still a four-star book. The sheer insanity of Simmons's post-modern \"parallel universes glimpsed or created by mankind's geniuses\" premise is wonderful, although the history of how humanity fell (a war between the Global Caliphate and a new Khanate and the near-extermination of the Jews) jarred. I feel like it would have been better left ambiguous, although I can see the argument that the specificity serves as a link between our time and the new fall of man. The Sword of Allah felt like a trumped-up obstacle for our robotagonists, which is why the future history jarred. As with most of what I've read by Dan Simmons, a recommended reading list: - The Iliad - The Odyssey - The Aeneid - The Tempest - \"Caliban on Setebos\" - The Time Machine ...more This is the last volume of dazzling SF epic duology by Dan Simmons. The story is too long to a nonnative speaker like me, but it's worth reading. Many interesting ideas such as parallel universe, terraforming,and Quantum teleportation are packed into one book. Devoted SF fan is surely thrilled by this book. Simmons denounces violence and war in this book. That's why this epic is persuasive and moving. Ilium was promising, but this book stank. Simmons has been uneven before, but this book finished it for me. Sorry, no more from this author. Fantastic follow up to Illium. The only thing that kept this from 5 star was the last couple pages. More on that later. First, the good. ACHILLES!! As someone who has read the Iliad, you spend most of these books internally thinking \"what would achilles or hector actually do if confronted with this situation?\" This is where Dan Simmons really shines as an author. You really feel like Achilles jumped right out of the Iliad and started right up in this book. I don't know about other readers, but I f Fantastic follow up to Illium. The only thing that kept this from 5 star was the last couple pages. More on that later. First, the good. ACHILLES!! As someone who has read the Iliad, you spend most of these books internally thinking \"what would achilles or hector actually do if confronted with this situation?\" This is where Dan Simmons really shines as an author. You really feel like Achilles jumped right out of the Iliad and started right up in this book. I don't know about other readers, but I found Achilles to be by far my favourite character in this book. There was a point in this book that for me was make or break. basically there is a female character (Penthiselia) who has a chance of killing the fleet-footed mankiller. Right there I got scared, almost all modern authors I feel at this point would go the limp-wristed way and have this chick in boots slay the man-killer and immediatly become the main-character in the book, all feminists and weak-kneed liberals rejoice. But, NO, Dan Simmons went the more realistic route (IMO) by having the female not only fail in killing Achilles the man-killer, but than having Achilles BRUTALLY murder her in retaliation. I could feel modern readers cringing. But the truthis, the Achilles of the Illiad, WOULD have done the exact same thing. Anyways, Brilliant! following on that, the book really takes off any scene in which a character from the Greek legend is involved. This is where I actually think the book is superior to \"Ilum\" (which I gave 5-stars), because having already read the Illiad, reading about Hockenberry record things I have already read is interesting, but not as interesting as watching the greek and trojan heroes in the here and now dealing with current (2000+ years) issues. There was a little forgettable section where Odysseus is on a moravec space-ship, and I found that a very enjoyable sedction for some reason. The Moravec plotline was much better in this one. In the first book I felt like the moravecs were the most interesting characters and had the worst plot (nothing happened at all actually), while the post-humans were the most dull characters with the most interesting plot. I felt this one was kind of in reverse. The moravec plot line was a blast, and they sort of became the heroes of the book. Overall, the 890 page book read like a 300 page book, typical of Dan Simmons, however, I cannot give it 5 stars for the following reasons. Please not, however, the bad does NOT outway the good. First, the worst. the ending was TERRIBLE. Plot threads unresolved, and the ones that were resolved were completely unsatisfying. The last few pages made no sense whatsoever...Harmon asking Prospero to play himself in the tempest??Really, that is the best Simmons could think of?....And what the F was the Oddyseus and Sycorax as srewing teenagers in a 1960 drive in movie theatre??? I feel like that was some sort of Porn Simmons wrote privately for himself, and threw in the book because 886 pages wasn't long enough? That 4 pages was just what he needed. Hey, I am a guy, I like the Sci-Fi sex interlude as much as the next guy, but that was bizzare to be polite about it?? Not too mention that he killed most of the Voynix and Calibani, sent the ENTIRE city of Illium to modern earth, freed 9000 jews, and millions of lives from the greek times, repatriating them on modern earth, creating a brand new earth government that taxes, all in the space of about 6 pages??? Really?? you needed 1700+ pages, and the resolution (which was stupid anyways) comes down to 6 pages? and than to add insult to injury, the last 3 pages were about asking Prospero to play himself in a play and Orphu of IO giving horsey rides to stupid little kids???? He really should have ended it right after Ilium was sent to modern earth, and Daemon learned how to kill the voynix. It would have left more unaswered, but it still would have been a good \"Brave new world\" kind of ending. Now why have a \"Really, really dumb new world\". Minor complaints. some of the character choices made no sense. Harmon wanting nothing more than going home to his wife and with the knowledge to save humanity walking onto a radiation-filled submarine KNOWING it will kill him? Oddyseus asking the Ardis Hall survivors to let him take the sonie, which is their only hope of survival, yet he can't tell them where, won't tell them what he will do with it, admits he probably won't get it back to them, and on top of that, tells them they will.....And they vote to let him!!!! enough said there. Ada. I thought she was minorly annoying in the first one, she is unbearable here. Simmons was very obviously stretching on her characterization. She does nothing but complain about not seeing Harmon, and she is pregnant and screams constantly, yet at the same time, she is the fearless leader of Ardis Hall, her proclomations are never questioned (rebuilding Ardis hall as a fort while the voynix are watching??), and she just fights constantly despite being 5 months pregnant. Once again a sci-fi author WAY overdoes that liberated women character, who is just as tough as guys, and blows it. I REALLY wish Sci-Fi authors would just give up writing female characters...they are SOOO bad. I won't even bring up the Hannah character. Hockenberry is useless. In the first book he actually had a plot that moved, but here all he does is go from place to place, watch some stuff happen, go somewhere, else, until finally he decides to stay and die witht he greek warriors right at the end.....only to get bored and QT somewhere and eat a bannana. Reading him in this book, particulariy the scene where he leaves the Greeks, I found myself wishing Simmons had just killed him off in the first book. Anyways, I don't want my complaints to turn people off from this book. Along with the first book, these two are fast reads, never dull, interesting, intellectual, and just plain FUN. I disagree with the other reviewers who keep saying \"only for fans of Sci-fi AND literature\", Bull-shit, there are fun reads, and if you don't mind putting in the time, you will be glad you did. ...more Like its predecessor, Ilium , this one is a wild mashup of capital-L Literature and crazy science fiction ideas that veer into mind-bending incomprehensibility (but the fun kind). (See my review of Ilium: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ). With Ilium , I loved the wildness so much that I was willing to forgive its faults. I'm not so sure I can do that this time. My feelings about Olympos are a lot more mixed. Maybe it's because the thrill of the wildness wears off after dragging on for hun Like its predecessor, Ilium , this one is a wild mashup of capital-L Literature and crazy science fiction ideas that veer into mind-bending incomprehensibility (but the fun kind). (See my review of Ilium: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ). With Ilium , I loved the wildness so much that I was willing to forgive its faults. I'm not so sure I can do that this time. My feelings about Olympos are a lot more mixed. Maybe it's because the thrill of the wildness wears off after dragging on for hundreds and hundreds of pages, or maybe all the craziness just didn't come together. Also, there are new faults. First, the good: There are a lot of really cool ideas here, not to mention just sheer delightful craziness. It's a wild ride that gets even crazier than Ilium . All my favorites are back, like the amateur literature scholars who happen to be cyborgs from the moons of Jupiter (although they don't talk about literature as much and instead go on serious adventures, which was fun, but I miss their conversations). I even got into the old-style humans, who I didn't really care about before. Based on the reviews, I wasn't expecting many answers, but I was pleasantly surprised that you do get something of an explanation for what the hell is going on even if there are then new unresolved puzzles. I found this website helpful: http://ilium.pbworks.com/w/page/11035... Whatever the faults (and there are many), I did find this interesting enough to keep reading nearly 900 dense pages. Now the bad. This is even longer than Ilium and even more unnecessarily so, especially in the last third or so. At some point I thought, \"Well, it seems to be wrapping up...\" only to wonder why there were still over 200 pages remaining. There are just too many bizarre meanderings and unessential subplots. It's cool that Simmons had all these ideas, but he didn't have to use them all here. At first I was pleasantly surprised that Helen, Ada, and other female characters seemed to be doing more than they did before, but soon enough all the same problems with female characters were there (i.e., they're mostly passive, primarily described by their bodies, etc.). And of course almost all the literary references are dead white guys, just like before (this time two female poets are mentioned). (MILD SPOILERS AHEAD) This time it's not just Eurocentric by omission (although at one point all non-Greeks on one of the Earths are whisked away by a blue light or something, which is a kind of omission, I guess). About halfway through readers are reminded that non-Western people do exist, because several thousand years earlier some crazy Asian Muslims established a global Caliphate dedicated to killing all Jews. No, I'm not making this up (unfortunately). I can't decide if this is blatant Islamophobia or just an inscrutable choice to add a bizarre and unnecessary historical backstory. Could something like this happen in the future? I suppose. But I have little idea what it adds to the story other than a convenient scapegoat for a few of the explanations. I have no problem acknowledging that some non-Western people are bad. But the problem is that these bad ones are really the only non-Western people who have anything to do with the plot (as far as I can tell) and they are largely historical background. They, along with some real Others from another universe (I think?), are the real threat. Maybe I'm reading too much into this, but it all felt like a kind of deep xenophobia that didn't sit well with me. At least this is what I can make of all this. The wildness is fun, but it goes off the rails. While I can't claim I understood everything in Ilium, I felt like I understood less in Olympos and generally had less fun. It was still a wild ride that people who liked Ilium might enjoy, but it failed to live up to its potential for me. Pity. I really wanted to love this book. SF needs more writers with this kind of ambition, but maybe with the ability to execute it more skillfully. See my review of this and other science fiction with ancient themes: http://examinedworlds.blogspot.com/20... ...more Bueno, a ver. S\u00e9 que Dan Simmons es una eminencia en cuanto a ciencia ficci\u00f3n. S\u00e9 que es el autor de los aclamad\u00edsimos \"Cantos de Hyperi\u00f3n\" y que es un autor que ama explicar todo. Pero debo confesar que este libro fue infumable! No puedo creer lo que veo mientras escribo esta rese\u00f1a, que empec\u00e9 este libro hace 1 a\u00f1o y 5 meses!! Es acaso as\u00ed de infumable? Claro que s\u00ed, creo que si no abandon\u00e9 este libro fue solamente porque odio dejar un libro a la mitad, y de verdad lo dej\u00e9 por meses justo a la Bueno, a ver. S\u00e9 que Dan Simmons es una eminencia en cuanto a ciencia ficci\u00f3n. S\u00e9 que es el autor de los aclamad\u00edsimos \"Cantos de Hyperi\u00f3n\" y que es un autor que ama explicar todo. Pero debo confesar que este libro fue infumable! No puedo creer lo que veo mientras escribo esta rese\u00f1a, que empec\u00e9 este libro hace 1 a\u00f1o y 5 meses!! Es acaso as\u00ed de infumable? Claro que s\u00ed, creo que si no abandon\u00e9 este libro fue solamente porque odio dejar un libro a la mitad, y de verdad lo dej\u00e9 por meses justo a la mitad. Empecemos por el principio. Arranqu\u00e9 Ili\u00f3n hace mucho y me pareci\u00f3 una idea excelente, mitolog\u00eda griega explicada en t\u00e9rminos de ciencia ficci\u00f3n, dioses que en realidad son humanos muy evolucionados volviendo al pasado a molestar a los pobres griegos y troyanos. De verdad me pareci\u00f3 muy interesante y a la vez entretenido, muchas escenas \u00e9picas de acci\u00f3n en la batalla y aunque la ciencia ficci\u00f3n es muy dura, las largas explicaciones densas se compensaban con acci\u00f3n y giros en la trama bastante intensos. Sobre Olympos, me hab\u00edan avisado que era mejor Ili\u00f3n, pero nunca pens\u00e9 que iba a ser tan denso y enroscado en explicaciones de f\u00edsica y metaf\u00edsica que lo iba a dejar tirado por meses. Tirado es una forma rara de decirlo, siendo que lo le\u00ed desde mi tablet. Pero para que entiendan mi pesar, les dejo un pasaje muy particular del libro, la ciencia ficci\u00f3n m\u00e1s dura que me ha tocado leer (les recomiendo no leer todo, en serio): \"\u00bfPor qu\u00e9 no se hab\u00edan disparado los misiles? Harman registr\u00f3 la IA hasta sus entra\u00f1as cu\u00e1nticas y no pudo encontrar ninguna raz\u00f3n. La orden humana se hab\u00eda dado, los cuatro juegos de llaves f\u00edsicas hab\u00edan sido girados, las coordenadas de blanco de la IA y las \u00f3rdenes de lanzamiento individual hab\u00edan sido confirmadas y transmitidas, los misiles hab\u00edan sido colocados en la secuencia de lanzamiento adecuada, los interruptores (virtuales y literales) se hab\u00edan activado. Todas las enormes escotillas de metal de los misiles se hab\u00edan abierto con \u00e9xito con redundante maquinaria hidr\u00e1ulica: s\u00f3lo una fina c\u00fapula azul de fibra de vidrio separaba los tubos de los misiles del oc\u00e9ano, y cada uno de aquellos tubos de lanzamiento se hab\u00eda llenado de nitr\u00f3geno para igualar la presi\u00f3n e impedir que el oc\u00e9ano entrara hasta el momento mismo del lanzamiento. Los cuarenta y ocho misiles habr\u00edan sido impulsados por generaciones de nitr\u00f3geno gaseoso, una carga de dos mil quinientos voltios que prender\u00eda la descarga de nitr\u00f3geno. El gas mismo habr\u00eda producido m\u00e1s de cuarenta y cinco mil kilos por cent\u00edmetro cuadrado de presi\u00f3n en menos de un segundo, enviando los misiles hacia arriba con sus propias burbujas de nitr\u00f3geno hasta que salieran del mar como corchos, y entonces el combustible s\u00f3lido de cada misil los habr\u00eda encendido en el momento en que los misiles alcanzaran el aire. Hab\u00eda iniciadores de lanzamiento e ignici\u00f3n redundantes y de doble redundancia. Los misiles tendr\u00edan que haber corrido hacia sus objetivos. Los indicadores de lanzamiento de la IA estaban todos en rojo. En cada uno de los cuarenta y ocho silos del vientre pre\u00f1ado de La espada de Al\u00e1 la secuencia hab\u00eda pasado adecuadamente de ESPEREN a PREPARADOS a LANZAMIENTO a LANZAMIENTO CON \u00c9XITO. Pero los misiles estaban todav\u00eda en sus tubos. La IA, muerta y deteriorada, lo sab\u00eda y comunicaba algo parecido a la verg\u00fcenza y el chasco a trav\u00e9s de la palma cosquilleante de Harman.\" S\u00ed, todo eso para decir que unos misiles se tendr\u00edan que haber disparado pero no se dispararon nada, y no se sabe por qu\u00e9. Verdaderamente es un libro que no logr\u00e9 disfrutar tanto como Ili\u00f3n, pero que al final fui feliz de poder terminar, no hay nada peor que desear que un libro se termine. Encima con un final que me pareci\u00f3 demasiado simple, de repente todo est\u00e1 mal y de repente todo se arregla y listo, todos felices. Ya est\u00e1, y unas \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas a modo de ep\u00edlogo que cuentan como se desarrolla todo felizmente a\u00f1os despu\u00e9s de todo el caos. Como soy duro y no aprendo, igual ahora voy a dedicarme a leer Los cantos de Hyperi\u00f3n, aunque antes voy a tomar un descanso leyendo otra cosa distinta a la ciencia ficci\u00f3n al menos. Voy a descansar de Dan Simmons y voy a intentar que se redima con los (seg\u00fan dicen) geniales Cantos. ...more Olympos is the sequel to Ilium, Dan Simmons's tale of a far-future Earth, where powerful gods live on Mars and re-create the Iliad, and a few hundred thousand \"old-style\" humans are left living in a pseudo-paradise on Earth. [info]professormortis reviewed it a while ago, and while his thoughts don't entirely parallel mine, you can certainly check them out. As a book, Olympos is MUCH more active than Ilium. Ilium is a setup piece. It establishes the various characters, from Dr. Thomas Hockenberry, Olympos is the sequel to Ilium, Dan Simmons's tale of a far-future Earth, where powerful gods live on Mars and re-create the Iliad, and a few hundred thousand \"old-style\" humans are left living in a pseudo-paradise on Earth. [info]professormortis reviewed it a while ago, and while his thoughts don't entirely parallel mine, you can certainly check them out. As a book, Olympos is MUCH more active than Ilium. Ilium is a setup piece. It establishes the various characters, from Dr. Thomas Hockenberry, PhD, a resurrected twenty-first century scholar, to Orpho of Io and Mahamut of Europa, a pair of cybernetic organisms called Moravecs who live on the outer planets of the solar system, and are interested in various aspects of old Earth human culture (Orpho likes Proust, Mahamut likes Shakespeare). Some old-style humans, a couple of Homeric heroes, a number of gods, and a couple of sentient computer programs round out the cast. Oh, and an evil entity that feeds on human suffering and terror. One of the things I enjoy most about Simmons is that he thinks BIG. I have no idea how scientifically feasible his concepts are, but it's hard not to be awed by ideas like the Breach, an enormous, force-field created tunnel that runs through the middle of the Atlantic ocean, or nano-technology that warps quantum probability to ensure that a man can only be killed in a single way. It's like Star Trek tech (which is, in itself, pretty crazy) jacked up to 11. It's great. His characters vary somewhat in quality. I really liked Orpho and Mahamut, and Simmons versions of Achilles and Odysseus seem pretty spot on to me. Achilles, in particular, is a lot of fun. He's a whole lot of attitude, but he can back it up, and the attitude is done well. Simmons gets the various Greek gods pretty dead on too. The humans, strangely, I'm less impressed with. Hockenberry is interesting, and in some ways, is the most accessible character (being a twentieth century scholar thrust into a crazy world), but for some reason, I have a hard time empathizing with him. He seems almost TOO aware of how out of place he is in the events that are taking place around him, and it's a bit wearing after a while. The various old-style humans, I found less engaging than the rest of the cast. They have some interesting struggles, and one of them finds out some incredibly crucial information, but I just didn't emotionally connect with them. Likewise, Prospero and Ariel didn't do much for me, but they're really side characters in the end. Important side characters, but side characters nonetheless. It's very hard to talk about the plot, since it hinges on events that happened in a previous book, and discussing it too much would spoil the mystery. Suffice it to say, it's appropriately huge and epic, and overall, pretty enjoyable. There are enormous quantities of literary references, but Simmons manages to explain most of them in the text. There's some religious references that don't get explained as well, unfortunately, and I know there's some things I'm not quite getting, mostly because I know very little about Christianity. Still, there's enough explained that I never felt totally lost (except when I was supposed to), and the book wraps up enough questions that I'm fairly well satisfied. Overall, it's a good book. Better than Ilium, which contained a number of authorial rants about how people interpret Shakespeare that not only wrecked the flow of the story, but felt totally out of place. The pace is quicker, stuff happens, and there's some genuine tension about the ending. I won't speak of the ending itself, except to say that it was somewhat disappointing. For all of the interesting stuff that's created in this story, there's a few too many loose ends. Worse, the ending is...well...let's just say it didn't have the emotional tone or weight I hoped it would. It's not quite a JMS ending (the worst kind), but it's not wonderful either. Though it does contain the opening lines of the Iliad, and that's never bad. If you enjoy ultra-tech style sci-fi, epic struggles, and occasional ponderings about literature, it's worth the read. ...more", "Title": "Olympos"},
