{"Comments": "In a word, dull.<---F> Dull and boring</---F>. **MINOR SPOILERS** What should have been a bigger event in this book - the Rising fighting the Society - ended up being nothing. At first I honestly thought that maybe my book was missing several chapters - you know, the chapters where something actually happens - but it turns out that the Rising taking over the Society was just that - nothing. There's no action,<---M> no suspense</---M>, no anything. By the end of the book, I didn't care about Ky, Xander, or <---C>Cassia</---C>, althoug In a word, dull. Dull and boring. **MINOR SPOILERS** What should have been a bigger event in this book - the Rising fighting the Society - ended up being nothing. At first I honestly thought that maybe my book was missing several chapters - you know, the chapters where something actually happens - but it turns out that the Rising taking over the Society was just that - nothing. There's no action, no suspense, no anything. By the end of the book, I didn't care about Ky, Xander, or Cassia, although it all ended rather predictably for all three of them. I also thought the book was overly vague. Sometimes leaving things vague and trying to create a great symbolism works really well for books, but in this book it actually worked against it. From the jobs (still don't know what the heck a \"sorter\" is and why computers can't do it) to the \"Society\" and the \"Rising\" - everything is just so vague. I also didn't understand how Ky and Indie suddenly became the best trained pilots there ever was or how Xander got medical training so quickly. I could go on about the flaws of this book, but honestly it's hard to even describe the flaws since it's almost impossible to find specific concrete details. Overall, not a *terrible* book, I like the way the author tries to interweave the poetry, but in the end, disappointing. ...more as i was posing for this, i was thinking to myself, \"how fitting! this truly is like being trapped in a bubble, because even though i was only 'eh' about the first one, and definitely 'thumbs-down' about the second one, i am totally going to have to read the third one to see how it all ends...\" trapped. See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads Revised edition DNF (this is not one of my normal reviews, I cannot provide such detailed review as this book was read ages ago) Additionally, this is not an ARC. I know I read it before y'all but I guess that is because Australia got it earlier. No one likes party poopers, but I really couldn't do it. But I tried. And that's all I could do. This series gets worse in each book. Matched was pretty good, I liked the world <---A>Ally Condie</---A> created. I mean, who doesn' See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads Revised edition DNF (this is not one of my normal reviews, I cannot provide such detailed review as this book was read ages ago) Additionally, this is not an ARC. I know I read it before y'all but I guess that is because Australia got it earlier. No one likes party poopers, but I really couldn't do it. But I tried. And that's all I could do. This series gets worse in each book. Matched was pretty good, I liked the world Ally Condie created. I mean, who doesn't love it? I certainly loved the idea. Then Crossed came out, I almost had given up on it all together as it was dull, characters had nothing too likeable about them and the love triangle was lame. I'm a sucker for well written love triangles, but bad ones...they make me want to rip my hair out. Ahh...then <+++>Reached</+++> came, I really should have listened to myself at page 78 to stop but I urged on, dying each second on. The first reasons why I even read these books is because of the cover. AMAZING!! One star to that drop dead gorgeous cover that sucked me in each time. I love how they have covers (green, blue and red) corresponding to the tablets. Really imaginative! I don't know why, but recently, breath-taking covers have been quite disappointing. People should start making ugly covers on the good books now because I'm on a hunt for unawesome covers and impressive meaty insides with all the yummy world building, personalities, heroism and plot. Majority of these elements are either non existent or poorly accomplished. Aww scrap going on a hunt for that, I VANT CHOCOLATE! (Who doesn't??) In short, here is a dot pointed edition of my short, detail lacking review. (Real sorry guys but I found a new addiction of writing thorough reviews in late December, 2012 and the other review I had on this, which you all cannot see anymore wasn't too good, so I don't know where I got all the likes from.) My discovery of why I dislike these books. (Rated on 1-10 scale) 1. Setting. 8 for the setting which was really unique 2. Plot. 6, I found that it had a few flaws in it 3. Cover. 10 PEOPLE!! It speaks for itself 4. Characters. 2, Cassia is weak, she might be rebellious in a way, but really lacks the certainty and focus most people desire in a heroin. Ky, he's quite to himself so I can't get much of a connection with him. Xander, what can I say? I've always been team Xander so I liked him more than Ky. A special note at the start from Ally said that the \"e\" from <+++>Reached</+++> represented the 3 protagonists, Cassia, Ky and Xander. As there was three lines on top of one and another to make the letter \"e\". A disappointing series, really predictable and just unlikeable characters. One limpy star. ...more Team Xander all the way. This book is going to be epic. Loved the first two books can't wait for this one. P.S. I don't get why everyone loves Ky and thinks he is the dangerous one. I think he is safe. No one who has been through what he has is dangerous. He didn't want to join the rebellion. I don't think him and Cassia want the same thing. She just likes the idea of him and his story. Pps. The description basically yells, it's all about Ky, the end! :( Review: I like how it ended and I am ok wi Team Xander all the way. This book is going to be epic. Loved the first two books can't wait for this one. P.S. I don't get why everyone loves Ky and thinks he is the dangerous one. I think he is safe. No one who has been through what he has is dangerous. He didn't want to join the rebellion. I don't think him and Cassia want the same thing. She just likes the idea of him and his story. Pps. The description basically yells, it's all about Ky, the end! :( Review: I like how it ended and I am ok with how it ended for Xander. I am sad that Indy left though. RIP. I really love Allie Condie. I can not wait for the movie unless, they are anything like the trailers. ...more Was it wrong for me to actually hope that there would be some sort of improvement in the last book of the Matched trilogy? Maybe. Maybe not. Reached , for me, was every bit of what I did NOT want a final book to be. Here are four things I did not like about it, in honor of the four blank spaces in my rating. #1: THE FLIMSY LOVE TRIANGLE Don't get me wrong, but I do love ADORE well-written love triangles. You know, ones that handle the three involved with reverence, ones that leave them with dignity Was it wrong for me to actually hope that there would be some sort of improvement in the last book of the Matched trilogy? Maybe. Maybe not. Reached , for me, was every bit of what I did NOT want a final book to be. Here are four things I did not like about it, in honor of the four blank spaces in my rating. #1: THE FLIMSY LOVE TRIANGLE Don't get me wrong, but I do love ADORE well-written love triangles. You know, ones that handle the three involved with reverence, ones that leave them with dignity in the end. Like the ones in The Iron Fey series and The Infernal Devices trilogy. It was FAR from the case with this series. When Cassia decided to go to the Outer Provinces looking for Ky (not Xander), when she decided to CROSS A FREAKING CANYON to get to Ky (not Xander), when she decided to RISK EVERYTHING, EVEN HER LIFE, just for Ky (again, NOT Xander), I knew that the love triangle was supposed to end. BUT NO. Xander is still hanging on to this really contrived triangle by the time we arrive at Reached . The way the triangle ended didn't help, either. Xander conveniently falls in love with Laney/Nea Lei. That was too contrived, as well. #2: IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE DYSTOPIAN Well, would you look at that. So now a \"dystopian world\" is defined as a romance set in a place ruled by a totalitarian government where its citizens are pampered? I don't think so. You might think that the Aberrations and Anomalies sent to die in the Society's hands are living a dystopia. But that's THEM and not CASSIA NOR XANDER NOR (to a certain degree) KY. A NORMAL LIFE, ALBEIT BEING CONTROLLED, IS NOT A DYSTOPIAN LIFE. #3: THE PLOT Reached did do its job and ended the story with all of the unanswered questions answered and all of the characters' fates sealed. BUT THAT DIDN'T MEAN THAT IT WAS ALL FINE AND DANDY IN THE PROCESS OF DOING SO. I am so disappointed with the book because the author includes a whole lot of plot twists that could have been used as great ingredients to make a great story. Although there were some good ones that she used, what Condie did with most of them after they have been introduced is a different story. Cassia isn't immune to the red tablet? Oh, let's just conveniently make her remember things she was supposed to forget without ever explaining why she could do that. Cassia isn't immune to the Plague? Oh, let's just conveniently cause a red dot to appear on her back so that she would be immune and that she wouldn't cause a lot of much-needed drama in the story. There are Society sympathizers? Oh, let's just ignore them and let them carry on with their lives. Isn't the Society supposed to freaking RETALIATE against the Rising? Oh, let's just say that the Society and the Rising are the same so that there wouldn't be ACTION AND BLOODSHED AND MORE ACTION in the story. Urgh. #4: THE FACT THAT REACHED SEEMS TO BE RUSHED This is what happens in a trilogy if you don't utilize every single book. (*cough* Crossed *cough*) The time that passes between certain chapters is unheard of. There are many instances of this going on, but I remember distinctly that in one chapter Ky's knocking on the door of Xander's family's house, and next thing you know it's weeks later and the family works at the Rising and only Xander's father is ever shown. I also noticed that when romance appears in chapters, time seems to slow down, and when there's talk of the rebellion and some action going on, everything gets to be played fast forward. ( Miscellaneous notes: Who's Colin again? I forgot who he was. CHAPTER 44 IS SO TOUCHING. Yes. That's pretty much it. What a waste. ) Never again will I fall for a pretty cover with a review from freaking MTV.com. (I'm specifically talking about the cover of Matched ) \"Hey, Allyster, check this book out! It's got an awesome cover and MTV.com says--\" * Over and out. ...more I'm a sucker for red covers! <3 I'm secretly hoping that the cover will be Cassia standing outside the sphere in the red dress Ky drew her in :) :) Update: Well, she's not quite OUT of the sphere, but she sure is in a red dress :) FINISHED REVIEW: 3.5 stars. I'm conflicted. I think Matched is still the best of the trilogy. I liked the multiple points of view, and found myself especially liking Xander's chapters. I think he was definitely the most interesting character in the book, and I think he's really the only character that ex I'm secretly hoping that the cover will be Cassia standing outside the sphere in the red dress Ky drew her in :) :) Update: Well, she's not quite OUT of the sphere, but she sure is in a red dress :) FINISHED REVIEW: 3.5 stars. I'm conflicted. I think Matched is still the best of the trilogy. I liked the multiple points of view, and found myself especially liking Xander's chapters. I think he was definitely the most interesting character in the book, and I think he's really the only character that experiences any growth in Reached. I'm glad things ended for him the way they did. I have to admit that a big part of why this book is not a 4 for me is because I didn't connect with Cassia at all. And to be honest, I'm not sure Ky's appeal came across well here either. I kept thinking... Cassia and Ky don't really seem right for each other. I think, realistically, Cassia and Xander are much better suited, which is odd since I really preferred Ky in the past two books. I thought that Indie and Ky would have been a good match. I also thought the whole Rising/Society fallout was somewhat of a non-event. There was really no rebellion at all, and I'm not really sure I understand the whole Pilot thing... But I did find the book well written, and I do love Condie's writing style. I enjoyed the book, and was sad for it (and the series) to be finished. I just wish there was a bit more action. ...more Actual rating 2.5 stars. This series, based on synopsis, had so much potential and seemed to be tailor made for my particular interests. What was delivered, however, was an exciting sub-plot centering around a tedious, teenage romance. In my reviews for this series I have not given enough credit to how absolutely stunning the writing is. It has a poignant, lyrical beauty to it that had me scribbling an endless sea of quotes into my notebook. This alone, however, wasn't enough to hold my interest i Actual rating 2.5 stars. This series, based on synopsis, had so much potential and seemed to be tailor made for my particular interests. What was delivered, however, was an exciting sub-plot centering around a tedious, teenage romance. In my reviews for this series I have not given enough credit to how absolutely stunning the writing is. It has a poignant, lyrical beauty to it that had me scribbling an endless sea of quotes into my notebook. This alone, however, wasn't enough to hold my interest in these books and the plot often felt stalled, prosaic and repetitious. This last installment in the Matched trilogy follows Cassia and Ky's attempt to overthrow the tyrannical and fascist hierarchy that governs every aspect of their lives - from life partner, to job, to number of offsprings - aided by the rebellion. The previous book closed on Cassia and Ky becoming distanced from each other, despite spending the ENTIRE BOOK attempting to be reconciled. This features more of the same, but I felt it had a little more action and actual forward motion of the plot to keep me entertained. My problem with this series was that I just wasn't very interested in their relationship. I wanted more information about the governing body and I wanted more anarchistic attacks and less melodramatic and angsty inner-monologues and declarations of undying love. There were some scenes that really emotionally touched me and these all included the rebirth of creativity to society. Little else failed to yield any empathy from me, however. There seemed to be a lot of surplus characters and details that added absolutely nothing to the book and I found the ending to be very predictable and anti-climatic. ...more My Full Review: Even though I wasn\u2019t the biggest fan of Matched, I read Crossed, which suffered from Middle Book Syndrome, in my opinion. However, I still held some hope for the final book in this trilogy, and I dislike leaving things unfinished (especially series) so I picked up the last book. While Reached was definitely better than its predecessor, it wasn\u2019t as good as I was hoping it would be. Reached showcases Ms. Condie\u2019s growth as a writer. I enjoyed the complexity of this book, especially My Full Review: Even though I wasn\u2019t the biggest fan of Matched, I read Crossed, which suffered from Middle Book Syndrome, in my opinion. However, I still held some hope for the final book in this trilogy, and I dislike leaving things unfinished (especially series) so I picked up the last book. While Reached was definitely better than its predecessor, it wasn\u2019t as good as I was hoping it would be. Reached showcases Ms. Condie\u2019s growth as a writer. I enjoyed the complexity of this book, especially towards the end. I\u2019ve felt as if the first two books are so cookie-cutter basic, everything being essentially as it\u2019s described. But in this book, I enjoyed how not everything was as it seems, and the conceptual aspects of some things, like the Pilot. There were also some other complex scenes that I thought were wonderfully written, and different from Condie\u2019s normal writing. The depth in some parts of the book I found was really refreshing and gave me something to really mull over. The ending was also great. Even if it was a bit on the open-ended side, I think that it wrapped many of the loose threads that I was wondering about. Also, I liked the bittersweet touch that it had. The loss was never fully covered up, but the hope was still present. This balance between grief and excitement for the future was a tough balance to strike, but I think it was executed well. I thoroughly enjoyed the ending of this book, and it partially redeemed the book for me. However, the matter of the fact is nothing happens in this book for the first 300 pages. It\u2019s like there is absolutely no plot whatsoever. When I was updating my status about this book around page 300, I could almost find nothing to say, since nothing happened. There was pretty much one slightly major event that happened in these pages, but other than that, I felt as if the writing was just rambling. Honestly, I\u2019m surprised I kept going, but it was only the slight intrigue of who Cassia was going to end up with that kept me going, even if I knew in my heart who it would be. But other than that, there\u2019s a complete lack of plot in those first 300 pages, which is a lot of pages. Also, there were some confusing parts of this book. During those first three hundred pages where all we\u2019re getting is information and random thoughts (with no plot, I may add), there\u2019s some info-dumps, and confusing info-dumps at that. I had to reread several parts to fully understand what these characters were talking about. There\u2019s a ton of medical talk in this one, and while I was able to eventually understand it, not only was it frustrating to have to go back and reread parts, but some people aren\u2019t going to fully understand everything. My dad being in the medical field, I know a lot about medical-related things, but I\u2019m sure that there are going to be some people that don\u2019t understand, just because it was complicated and not explained well enough. Overall, Reached was a decent conclusion to this series. I got many of my questions answered, and the ending was fabulous, especially the writing. However, it can not be ignored that over half the book didn\u2019t really contain much of a plot, not to mention the medical jargon that confused me. I\u2019d only recommend this one to those who have read the first two books and are curious to see what happens, or perhaps the occasional teenager who is just beginning to read YA, but other than that, this series is pretty meh. I can\u2019t say that I\u2019d recommend it to anyone else, even if I did enjoy some aspects of the series. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Pre-release thoughts) I think the cover is pretty nice, although it's not my favorite cover in the world, and I still like the first cover better. But I like this cover more than the second book's. AND, it's supposed to be from the POV of XANDER [yay!], Ky, and Cassia. So we shall see... Here are the questions that I have in my head after reading Crossed. They better be answered in this book! [Note: Beware of spoilers if you haven't read Crossed yet!] What's up with Cassia at the end? Where is she? Why did they send her back in to Society? What's her job there? How does being back in Society help the Rebellion? What are the trades that she does? What does she need to get from the trades? How does the Society not get suspicious that she just magically reappeared back from the farmlands? What about her family? Where does she live? Does she continue talking to her family? Who is she supposed to meet at the end? Why did we skip months at the end? Why not just end the book at Ky's POV? Why extend the book to Cassia's POV, giving me a bunch of questions? Has Cassia been able to talk to Ky? Has Ky sent her a message yet? Where is Ky? What happened to him? Did he do his job? What exactly is his job? How does it help the Society? Did he miss Cassia? Did Cassia ever find out Xander's secret? Is Ky going to find a way to meet her again? Why is he so jealous of Cassia? Why was Cassia totally unaware of everything during Crossed? Why didn't he tell her anything? What about the Rebellion? How does the Rebellion even work? What do they do? When are they actually going to, you know, Rebel? How is Xander still a part of this? What does Cassia feel for Xander? Didn't she make it clear that she loves Ky? So then why is she still obsessed about Xander? What does Xander feel about her? How does this all have anything to do with the mysterious 'choice' Cassia is supposed to make? Can they make the cover pretty like Matched's cover? Why was Crossed's cover not pretty? Will they make this book's cover pretty?? Yep, Condine has left me with a lot of questions... ...more For a while i thought i might like it. (view spoiler) [... (hide spoiler) ] I hate her choice! Stupid Ky! I have a love-hate relationship with this book. This better be good. You owe me after Crossed . -- After Reading: This was not my favorite series, but I will recommended it to teens who are looking for a dystopia that makes you work for it a bit with literary and art illusions. It took me a while to get into. People kept asking me, \"how's it going?\" and I'm like, \"Well, I'm on page 180 and I can't really tell you...\" I just think it got too far away from Matched , which I liked and thought worked as a dystopian romance....to this book about finding This better be good. You owe me after Crossed . -- After Reading: This was not my favorite series, but I will recommended it to teens who are looking for a dystopia that makes you work for it a bit with literary and art illusions. It took me a while to get into. People kept asking me, \"how's it going?\" and I'm like, \"Well, I'm on page 180 and I can't really tell you...\" I just think it got too far away from Matched , which I liked and thought worked as a dystopian romance....to this book about finding a cure for a plague.. ...more Written on May 21st,2014 3.5 stars This will be a long review...lol As I closed the very last page of this awesome finale to the Matched series I start screaming (in a happy way). I screamed of pure joy and mixed emotions I laughed in surprise because I finally get what the author wanted the readers to understand I cried just for a little because I felt the emotions and pain that the characters were feeling And I clapped for about an hour because Condie really did an excellent job at writing this fina Written on May 21st,2014 3.5 stars This will be a long review...lol As I closed the very last page of this awesome finale to the Matched series I start screaming (in a happy way). I screamed of pure joy and mixed emotions I laughed in surprise because I finally get what the author wanted the readers to understand I cried just for a little because I felt the emotions and pain that the characters were feeling And I clapped for about an hour because Condie really did an excellent job at writing this finale Well the first book, Matched, was great. But, the second book,Crossed, was shit. I was expecting action or something but instead I got some action and then just thoughts and thoughts. No!!!! I like action and thoughts, not just thoughts. You get what I mean? It had taken me two months to read Crossed and when I was about to give up the ending interested me and boom... \"I need to read REACHED.\" I said to myself one day when I suddenly jumped from my bed in the morning. I ran to the library and I checked it out. I didn't want to buy something I didn't like...I had to read it from the library first. You understand what I mean? If I loved it I would buy for my own and if I didn't I would just dump it quietly in the library. Welllllll......... This was awesome!!!! I'm not going to say it was this AMAZING book but man what an awesome book. I gulped 512 pages in less than two days and I DO NOT regret it at all. I will definitely buy it. I'm not going to spoil this at all because in order for you to understand everything you have to read the first two books. I'll try my best. WHAT I LIKED: -The writing. It was good. Very understandable and no grammar errors. I think it could have been more detailed but it was still great. -Poems. Yes, Condie uses a lot of poems and arts related things. I love that about this book because it represents hope for the main characters. There are some very beautiful poems in this book. -The characters. They were all amazing. Each had its own kind of personality that made them each unique. I especially loved Xander, Indie, and Lei. -The plot. It was to rebel against the Society. I liked how it turned out. -The reality. Even though this was set in the future it had a reality that we see today.we wish to want something, save the world, or follow someone and then get disappointed we still have to go on. We have to cling to hope and even if things don't turn out how we wanted them to turn out something good will always come out of it. -Surprising. Some things surprised me in this book that I did not expect at all. Others were predictable but you still got kind of surprised. -The cover. I LOVE the covers of the Matched series. Especially this one. So beautiful and unique. -The ending. WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE: Some spoilers ahead -The love triangle. Yes, I was confused because Cassia would say something like: \"I know I want to be with Ky but I also love Xander.\" Yes we fucking get it, you LOVE Ky but you have to let Xander go at some point. Yeah, you dumped him for Ky so get over it and stop feeling bad for him. And Xander wanted Cassia but it was obvious he would be the third wheel. And Ky didn't really have an opinion. I HATE love triangles because of who you have to choose. Either way, I loved how it all turned out towards the end. -Cassia. Yeah, she is the heroine. The one who saves the damn day. The one who solves everything. Is Condie trying to prove us that Cassia is some kind of rebel by asking too many questions when she sin't supposed to or by defending individuals that nobody seems to like? I think everyone does that. I have always found her annoying. The only reason why I kept reading? Xander and Ky and because of everyone else. -The Rising and rebellion. Okay, so I was expecting some kind of action...hello!! You are rebelling against the Society. I was excited for that but, it turned out there was no violence. There was a plague and there were questions to be answered. -Getting confused. So sometimes I would get confused and understand nothing. Sometimes I would get bored. But...then I would get interested again until the end. -Cassia and Ky. I would have preferred for Cassia to stay alone for a while. And Ky be with Indie. Xander and Lei seem great together. -Emptiness. I really liked this book. But there was just something about it that didn't really have that magic or effect a book is supposed to have. I was just sometimes annoyed. BUT... It's worth reading. Awesome. And even thought there were somethings I didn't really like it is enjoyable and it was worth my time. I do not regret reading this book at all. I loved the ending and I was kind of sad that the world of Cassia, Ky, and Xander was over. And I also think that there should have been a fourth book. I mean, we got to see Cassia and Ky's love story. What about Xanders? Anyways, you should check out this whole series and enjoy it. It is one of the best finales I have read in a long time. P.S. there are some great and beautiful quotes from this book. \u201cThere is ebb and flow. Leaving and coming. Flight and fall. Sing and silent. Reaching and reached.\u201d See it on my BLOG. ...more Red cover to match the tablet theme. Liking the idea and looking forward to how the bubble will be portrayed this time. Update: I like the fact that she is standing, but why not facing forward? Would have preferred it if she was looking at us with her head down. :/ The bubble still looks awesome though. Oh gosh, finally done with this series!! The ending was painful. Painfully boring! It's such an odd book out from the whole trilogy, but in the end I realize this is actually a quite weak offering in the dystopian genre as a whole. The entire trilogy lacks plot and imagination. I mean, Ally Condie didn't even bother to give her world interesting names - they're just called The Society, The Rising, The Pilot. I just couldn't stand to read this by the end of the novel. The conclusion to the trilogy Oh gosh, finally done with this series!! The ending was painful. Painfully boring! It's such an odd book out from the whole trilogy, but in the end I realize this is actually a quite weak offering in the dystopian genre as a whole. The entire trilogy lacks plot and imagination. I mean, Ally Condie didn't even bother to give her world interesting names - they're just called The Society, The Rising, The Pilot. I just couldn't stand to read this by the end of the novel. The conclusion to the trilogy is entirely unsatisfying. The three main characters (Cassia, Ky and Xander) are split apart on different paths, but none of their stories are very interesting. Xander's held the most interest for me, but when the whole book ended up being about the struggle with a PLague, that's entirely out of their control, it felt like a cop-out. I guess I wanted the struggle to be man versus man, not man versus some weird disease at the end. I felt cheated. There wasn't much suspense, and I got really frustrated with Cassia dallying about collecting poetry. It seemed so frivolous and silly, and I guess the author wanted to point out that art is beauty and a place for hope and inspiration in times of trouble. It just felt stupid that the main female lead was so occupied with poems, when there were much more pressing matters at stake here. The book was so long, and not a whole lot happened. Overall, I wish I had quit this trilogy at book one and not wasted so much time reading these very mediocre books when there are much better books out there in the dystopia genre. ...more This book is the author's last chance to prove/redeem herself and in my opinion, the author is indeed able to prove herself- that she is a consistent writer because from book one to three, she managed to maintain that dull tone throughout the series even though the story is infested with rebellion, illnesses, danger, deaths and other catastrophes. Nevertheless, I was able to achieve my purpose in reading the entire series, that is to find out whom Cassia ends up with. Predictably, she ends up wi This book is the author's last chance to prove/redeem herself and in my opinion, the author is indeed able to prove herself- that she is a consistent writer because from book one to three, she managed to maintain that dull tone throughout the series even though the story is infested with rebellion, illnesses, danger, deaths and other catastrophes. Nevertheless, I was able to achieve my purpose in reading the entire series, that is to find out whom Cassia ends up with. Predictably, she ends up with Ky because Ky too, chooses Cassia even when Indie would have been an easier choice. This is I guess, what I liked most about the entire series- how Cassia and Ky fought for their love for each other despite all odds. What I did not like very much about the ending is how Xander- because Cassia did not choose him ends up with a girl, Lei who just appears in the last half of book three. I think it was a bit lame to find a pair for Xander just to give him a happy ending. Perhaps, this is one of those series that will be better appreciated on screen. ...more Party pooper coming through! Let me give it to you all cut and dry... it was okay, entertaining, but not what I was expecting. That was... unexpected to say the least. Every time I think of Matched, the first book in the series, I get this happy feeling in my head because it was a book I really loved. And that book was about love, plain and simple. Forbidden love found in a hopeless place (HA, to quote Rhianna). Sure Crossed dropped the ball a tad, but that usually happens with the second book. I Party pooper coming through! Let me give it to you all cut and dry... it was okay, entertaining, but not what I was expecting. That was... unexpected to say the least. Every time I think of Matched, the first book in the series, I get this happy feeling in my head because it was a book I really loved. And that book was about love, plain and simple. Forbidden love found in a hopeless place (HA, to quote Rhianna). Sure Crossed dropped the ball a tad, but that usually happens with the second book. I was hoping that Reached would go back to its roots and blossom once more, but I feel like it doesn't even belong in the same series. The story took a turn that was just weird and not so much unexpected like \"Woah! That would never happen\" as in \"Wow, I really thought something else was going to be the focus of the story\". Cassia, Ky, and Xander are all playing their parts to bring the Society down. Cassia is sorting, Ky is flying planes of some sorts, and Xander is working with the medicine peoples. The shit hits the fan pretty early on in the story so we are left in the rest of the story dealing with the repercussions. This is all good really, until a plague breaks out in the Society, a plague brought by the Rebellion in their twisted plan to be the saviors of this new world. Only, the plague gets worse and worse, and there is nobody able to provide a cure. And that is basically what the whole story focuses on for the entire book. A race to find the cure. It's just, it seems like a whole new series after a certain point. I thought The Matched trilogy dealt more with the characters, and how they are and how they think and feel. Matched was more character driven and Reached is a lot more plot driven than anything. At the beginning the story was about Cassia and Ky, and, let's face it, love. By the end the story has something about love, but the character are yet again separated throughout the novel and the plague is all the rave, front and center. The book is more about Xander than anything else really. Xander, Cassia and their friendship. But more just Xander. In my mind Matched was more Cassia, Crossed was more Ky, and Reached was more Xander. I think that's why I liked Matched more because I like who Cassia is more. The quiet rebel. But I love me some Xander too, so I was thrilled to learn about his story, I just didn't expect the story to be more about him. So at the end my veridict is I liked/enjoyed it, but it wasn't what I had come to expect from the series. I am sure a lot of people will love/enjoy it though. The writing is still beautiful, there are some passages that take your breath away, but that wasn't enough to distract me from the fact that the path Reached ended up taking didn't feel right. I am open to the suggestion of making a fourth book/novella and giving the finale another go. ...more Well, it's over, isn't it? I liked it...it didn't jump the shark but it also didn't knock my socks off. To be fair, I'm going to say to this book, \"It's not you...it's me.\" We all knew she'd end up with (view spoiler) [Ky, but it just took so long to get to that point that it just wasn't that exciting for me. (hide spoiler) ] Also, (view spoiler) [ the Xander and Lei thing seemed almost too manufactured. Like, of all the people and places in Society, he finds Vick's match? (hide spoiler) ] Like I said, Well, it's over, isn't it? I liked it...it didn't jump the shark but it also didn't knock my socks off. To be fair, I'm going to say to this book, \"It's not you...it's me.\" We all knew she'd end up with (view spoiler) [Ky, but it just took so long to get to that point that it just wasn't that exciting for me. (hide spoiler) ] Also, (view spoiler) [ the Xander and Lei thing seemed almost too manufactured. Like, of all the people and places in Society, he finds Vick's match? (hide spoiler) ] Like I said, this isn't the books fault. I liked it, but just done with YA for the time being. Edit: 3/2/12 Ally Condie blogged about the new cover and title reveal... I like it a lot!!! Link to article. Choose? I can already tell there's a Team-Xander vs. Team-Ky thing going on... I sure hope it gets deeper than that, though... ...more If this book was to stray away from the stereotype of Paranormal & Dystopian YA Fiction, she'd choose Xander Quick Review Frankly I was a little disappointed with the ending of Reached. I didn't enjoy the whole 'Pilot' plotline, (view spoiler) [the rebellion was pretty feeble considering the first two books had been working up to it, they weren't met with much resistance and the plague seemed a litttttttle bit too far fetched and out of the blue. (hide spoiler) ] I probably set my expectations too If this book was to stray away from the stereotype of Paranormal & Dystopian YA Fiction, she'd choose Xander Quick Review Frankly I was a little disappointed with the ending of Reached. I didn't enjoy the whole 'Pilot' plotline, (view spoiler) [the rebellion was pretty feeble considering the first two books had been working up to it, they weren't met with much resistance and the plague seemed a litttttttle bit too far fetched and out of the blue. (hide spoiler) ] I probably set my expectations too high. This wasn't to say I didn't enjoy it, some sections I did enjoy - greatly and I still enjoy the series as a whole. Still don't like Ky as a character, but I was upset about (view spoiler) [Indy (hide spoiler) ] . I did like the multiple points of view from Cassia, Ky and Xander. ...more I will of course not be adding a stupid star to this. Just saying. You haven't read the book, why on earth must you add all these stars to it. So you liked Matched and Crossed, brilliant! Doesn't mean you should get it five stars. Didn't like Matched or Crossed. Don't give it one just yet. Anyways, after reading Matched and Crossed, I feel like I have an obligation to read this. Matched was a good book. Bought it after reading it in the library. Crossed however, I did not fancy. Bored me. The end I will of course not be adding a stupid star to this. Just saying. You haven't read the book, why on earth must you add all these stars to it. So you liked Matched and Crossed, brilliant! Doesn't mean you should get it five stars. Didn't like Matched or Crossed. Don't give it one just yet. Anyways, after reading Matched and Crossed, I feel like I have an obligation to read this. Matched was a good book. Bought it after reading it in the library. Crossed however, I did not fancy. Bored me. The ending was okay, but the rest I couldn't wait for them to just get there already. Nevertheless, I hope the conclusion will be a good one. EDIT:: So that's the end. I'm surprised, a little bit confused, and wanting to know what happens next. But there won't be a next. And part of me is happy for that. This book is basically summed up by a quote a new character, Lei, says near the end. \"We're allowed to change\" A lot of things change in this book. The people, their lives, the society they live in (literally and figuratively). And I liked that. This was a much better book than the second by leaps and bounds. And as much as I thoroughly enjoyed the first book, I think Reached was even a little better than Matched too. It started out strong, like Condie's books usually do, and ended with beautiful prose and a good conclusion. The plot is basically Cassia, Ky, and Xander with three different jobs helping The Rising in three different ways. Xander's POV was my favorite throughout the book, and I liked him as a character better than the other two, but I have to say his ending shocked me. At first he is an official for The Society, then he comes a medic for The Rising when the Plague hits the people of Camas and beyond. I was rooting for Team Xander throughout the book. Ky basically worked for The Rising the whole time, so at least to me, his POV was pretty boring. Though he did have two or three nice twists I definitely wasn't expecting. Cassia essentially worked for herself, and then switched to The Rising when she needed too. I felt that her POV's had the best writing in them, and that her twists and discoveries were much more shocking and enjoyably than the boys. Condie's prose and writing was as lyrical and beautiful as always! Especially in the last few chapters. That was some good writing, folks. I enjoyed the plot, but it didn't suck me in. It took me a while to finish because I kept putting it down and getting bored. But besides that, it was a pretty good book. I only had a few things to pick at: -Who she ends up with in the end. I mean really? I totally thought it was going to be the other guy. I also hated how she made it so that Cassia would be able to choose him, (view spoiler) [by killing off the love interest Condie introduced for the other guy in the first place! (hide spoiler) ] Maybe i'm just bitter than she didn't end up with the other LI, but oh well. It didn't bother me too much, since I still thought the ending was phenomenal. A good ending to a series in my opinion, though it did leave some questions unanswered. -Which is my next thing. The ending! We never find out (view spoiler) [if Anna, The Society, or The Rising take over. (hide spoiler) ] And maybe I missed something, but we never found out who the Pilot was either!? And wasn't that the whole point of the series? About the Pilot and the Rising. And we never even find out who he is? I am pretty bummed I never found out who The Pilot was. -And the third, the love triangles. We are introduced to two new love interests in this book. Lei, a Society official whose Match died and is slowly falling for Xander. And Indie, whom we already know, as a love interest for Ky. I personally liked Lei a lot better, since Indie was sorta a brat in this book. Still, I was annoyed that everyone and their mother had a love triangle in this book. You could've done better, Ally Condie. I RECOMMEND this! ...more One of the worst books I've ever had the misfortune to read. I liked the first book (Matched) because it was different and I liked both Ky and Xander. I liked the different world that they were in and pristine lifestyle everyone had laid out for them. I really enjoyed Matched. Moving into the second one (Crossed) I expected something a little more spicy with love and war and just felt myself getting bored. But getting the next and LAST book (Reached) I thought, \"Well, as the grand finale there i One of the worst books I've ever had the misfortune to read. I liked the first book (Matched) because it was different and I liked both Ky and Xander. I liked the different world that they were in and pristine lifestyle everyone had laid out for them. I really enjoyed Matched. Moving into the second one (Crossed) I expected something a little more spicy with love and war and just felt myself getting bored. But getting the next and LAST book (Reached) I thought, \"Well, as the grand finale there is no way they can bore me in this one.\" I was wrong. Not only was the war BORING, the LOVE story/triangle was NONEXISTENT. Throughout the entire series there was no doubt in my mind who she would end up with. Well, why not just make it love story between two? There was absolutely no reason for the third person to even be in the equation, all I ended up doing was feeling sorry for him. (Sorry for lack of names, I don't want to put any spoilers). Then with the guy she does end up there was just detachment. No fire, passion. It was more robotic than anything. I have never been so mad ending a series, not because it was over, but because I read it to begin with. ...more Every once in a while a book comes along that begs you to clear off your shelves. . .because the other books are not quite fit to be shelved next to it. A book that makes you want to take all (but a rare handful) of five star ratings back, because the other five stars do not compare. A book you hold with reverent awe when you finish it. A book that leaves you carved out and filled back up, because it is so beautiful and you wonder that a person could create such a thing of beauty. A book that yo Every once in a while a book comes along that begs you to clear off your shelves. . .because the other books are not quite fit to be shelved next to it. A book that makes you want to take all (but a rare handful) of five star ratings back, because the other five stars do not compare. A book you hold with reverent awe when you finish it. A book that leaves you carved out and filled back up, because it is so beautiful and you wonder that a person could create such a thing of beauty. A book that you know you will recommend over and over again and buy stacks of for Christmas gifts (and birthday gifts, and just because you-must-read-this-book gifts). Reached is, without a doubt, my top pick of 2012. This review will forever be in adequate to convey the amazing depth, poetry, characterization and storytelling of Reached. This is, my favorite ending to any series I have ever read. It is a seamless read. It is a rare book that can take three points of view and work magic like this. The pacing and reveals were well-timed and I found myself reading through the entire day until I finished it. As in, I could not tear myself away. I started reading at 5:45 in the morning and finished it that evening. After reading Crossed, I walked around for days, part of my head in that world. I rolled the possibilities for the final book over in my mind. My predictions of what would happen next. None of my predictions were close. Reached is original and layered and the threads, symbols, and plot is unique and amazing. As the book was nearing the end and more things were revealed and tied up I found myself gasping at the genius of it and ridiculously happy that I could not have predicted in any way the ending to this series. This book is mature, in the true sense of the word. The characters make choices that require heart, mind and character. Each character has a satisfying, and what feels to be a true ending. I didn't want it to end, ever. . .but it ended so well I felt it was complete. I can't wait to read it again because I would not allow myself to stop reading long enough to find my post-it notes. Now, I can go back slowly and mark all my favorite passages. Oh, the writing. Sigh. There are so many beautiful lines that I predict will be quoted over and over. Other books may entertain, or inform, or leave you breathless from plotting. . .and Reached does this as well, but it does something more. This book is a classic, because it made me grow. Because its beauty alone moved me. . .you know that beautiful moment as a reader when you experience a complete emotional catharsis while reading a character's journey and you feel your own world shift? For me, I wanted to create as soon as I closed its cover. On a personal note. . .which is the reason we read, right? I know that this book changed me. I have a handful of books that I call my \"books for life.\" The books that earn a place on a special shelf in my bookcase. The books that shape my life. The books that come at just the right time to inspire. Most often these books are the ones that fill me with courage. I cried while I read Reached. Near the end I found myself broken open with emotion, because I saw the beauty of creation as Cassia saw it. And I had felt afraid, to create something, something that certainly wouldn't be as lovely as the book I held in my hand. But I realized what a gift creation is. And what courage it does take to create, even when it is less than perfect. The courage it takes to make your own voice heard. I thank Ally, for making her voice heard through this timeless series. ...more Stop rating a book you have not even read 1 page off! It is crazy that so many people are giving it 5 stars having not read 1 page of it. There are more 5 stars reviews than 1. 56 % of idiots gave it 5 stars and 9 % of idiots gave it 1. And I did not count the other idiots. Thanks to them you cannot buy a book anymore based on reviews. I used to do that but then finding out I bought a very bad book although it had 5 stars, or vice versa. Wow. Where do I even start? So much happened in this final, much anticipated book in the Matched trilogy! I remember reading Matched and Crossed back to back this summer and although I wasn't blown away by either book, I was so excited to get my hands on the last one to see how it all ended! I'm not going to lie, when I started Reached I was a bit disappointed. I don't know if it was because I was wary after being let down by the first two books, but I was procrastinating for finals and wanted to Wow. Where do I even start? So much happened in this final, much anticipated book in the Matched trilogy! I remember reading Matched and Crossed back to back this summer and although I wasn't blown away by either book, I was so excited to get my hands on the last one to see how it all ended! I'm not going to lie, when I started Reached I was a bit disappointed. I don't know if it was because I was wary after being let down by the first two books, but I was procrastinating for finals and wanted to give it a fair chance so I kept reading... ...And I am so glad I did. After the initial slow start, Reached just exploded with action and emotions. I was sucked into this whirlwind of the Society and the Rising and the love triangle and so many other aspects that just captivated me! I am obsessed with the way Ally Condie writes. I can't even explain it, it's like she can put actual feelings and emotions into words- it's so powerful. The way she described certain scenes in the book just made my heart ache, like I was actually feeling what the characters were feeling. Nothing makes me happier than a book that can pull me into it's world so much so that I'm attached to the characters as if they're real people. The plot was incredible... It was complex and intriguing and so raw at some points I just loved it. There actually wasn't any romance, which usually means a less than stellar review for me, but it was like there were so many other important things going on that I didn't even care. I became so invested in the characters and what they were each fighting for: freedom, justice, happiness, love, self expression, family, their lives etc etc etc. So many times I'd be like \"wait, hold up- whatttt!? Did that really just happen!?\" Which is exactly how I like my books- constantly keeping me second guessing! I loved piecing together all the pieces of the puzzle! I can't get too specific without giving away spoilers! I felt such a roller coaster of emotions while reading this book: ecstatic, heartbroken, melancholy, fear... the list goes on and on and I am so happy I took the time while studying for finals to read this book and for letting it change my mind about how I view the Matched trilogy in general. You really need to just read it for yourself and you'll see what I mean :) ...more An excellent ending to an incredible trilogy, REACHED ties everything together in ways you'll never see coming. As with the previous novels, Condie's writing is fluid, unhurried, and poetic with each line, each page. In REACHED, Condie lets readers know and learn more about Xander as a new narrator, in addition to Cassia and Ky's points-of-view. All three narrations are strong and each voice is authentic to each character, making it easy to always know who is narrating at any given point. Life h An excellent ending to an incredible trilogy, REACHED ties everything together in ways you'll never see coming. As with the previous novels, Condie's writing is fluid, unhurried, and poetic with each line, each page. In REACHED, Condie lets readers know and learn more about Xander as a new narrator, in addition to Cassia and Ky's points-of-view. All three narrations are strong and each voice is authentic to each character, making it easy to always know who is narrating at any given point. Life has changed \u2013 and continues to change \u2013 drastically for all three characters as a deadly plague spreads and each character comes closer to choosing their future. Overall, this conclusion to the MATCHED trilogy is gripping, romantic, exciting, and surprising. Anyone who hesitates reading this trilogy because of the love triangle is missing out, because these books are about more than two young men and a girl struggling to choose between them. They are about freedom, fighting for what you believe in, and so much more. Condie's writing is evocative and completely engaging. All in all, REACHED is an outstanding conclusion that will captivate readers until the very last page. HIGHLIGHTS: I enjoyed how Condie tied everything together in this novel \u2013 a few moments that seemed inconsequential in previous books became extremely important in this story. This story surprised me a few times, and I loved the three distinct points of view \u2013 it was nice to finally get to know more about Xander's character. Character growth, especially Cassia's character. LOWLIGHTS: Very slow going and character-focused, which is to be expected from Condie's writing. However, it felt like it took a very long time to get to the main plot. RATING: 4.5 out of 5 ...more TEAM. XANDER. Okay, now that I have THAT out of the way... 3.5 stars (but I'm rounding up because Matched was beautiful) Better than Crossed but not as good as Matched . Let me say, Ally Condie has some gorgeous writing in this book. There are moments of real brilliance in her prose. However, her writing style is so introspective, so sparse, so poetic that it doesn't fit a story with any kind of action or peril. There is no urgency in these words. The writing worked SO WELL in Matched with its forbi TEAM. XANDER. Okay, now that I have THAT out of the way... 3.5 stars (but I'm rounding up because Matched was beautiful) Better than Crossed but not as good as Matched . Let me say, Ally Condie has some gorgeous writing in this book. There are moments of real brilliance in her prose. However, her writing style is so introspective, so sparse, so poetic that it doesn't fit a story with any kind of action or peril. There is no urgency in these words. The writing worked SO WELL in Matched with its forbidden love and journey of discovery, but it added a total level of boredom in Crossed that also permeated this novel as well. I love to be engrossed in a book--I'm a I-read-this-in-one-sitting kind of girl--and I feel like my bar for getting hooked on a book is low. I'm just aching to lose myself in a book (um, maybe that's my procrastinator personality speaking). It took me A MONTH to finish Reached . It felt almost like a chore to finish it--I even had it on my to-do list--and a reader never wants to feel like that about a book. Beautiful writing--the last few paragraphs were gorgeous!--but too much ponderous introspection for a story requiring a sense of urgency. ...more Is everyone Team Ky? I am Team Xander. I can't wait for this book. What about you guys? EDIT: OMG the cover! The Poet Has to face great dangers and to decide whom to love. She decides to create new things, to give people hope and happiness. She forgets and remembers. She is strong, determined and faithful. She loses everything and finds it anew. Cassia is an awesome protagonist and partly she really reminds me on Katniss or Tris, but she has also completely different character traits like her art-love. \u201cDo you think you could let someone go if you thought it was best for them?\u201d The Pilot Faces death and The Poet Has to face great dangers and to decide whom to love. She decides to create new things, to give people hope and happiness. She forgets and remembers. She is strong, determined and faithful. She loses everything and finds it anew. Cassia is an awesome protagonist and partly she really reminds me on Katniss or Tris, but she has also completely different character traits like her art-love. \u201cDo you think you could let someone go if you thought it was best for them?\u201d The Pilot Faces death and fights for love. He loves so many and he is afraid of losing them, but he finally learns to trust and to believe. He shows more and more emotions and his feelings for Cassia grow even deeper. He has nothing left but Cassia and he needs and wants only her and she wants and needs only him. Ky's most character traits are revealed and it is getting easier to understand him. In this book it is impossible not to love him. Every action, every quote, every thought is deep and filled with strong emotions. Besides, he is a lover of poetry too, just like Cassia and this makes the main difference to characters from other popular books. \u201cI wish I could have one without the other, but that's the problem with being alive. You don't usually get to choose the measure of suffering or the degree of joy you have.\u201d The Physic Has to save the whole Nation and at the same time fight the Society. He lets go of his first and main love and finds the cure for himself. Sacrificially and altruistic he works for the world that is dying because he is just such a person. He knows whom Cassia loves and there is no real fight, no real love-triangle in this book. Xander is a wonderful person. Cassia, Ky and him are a family, there is no love-triangle between these three. There is nothing but love and understanding. Xander is absolutely unique and I am happy that he finds his happy-ending. \u201cIt\u2019s not exactly easy to save things for the future when the present is so uncertain.\" I love the progression of the plot. I love the development of the characters, their thoughts and dialogues. Everything is so deep and meaninful in this book. Cassia is a great artist. I love the whole trilogy mainly because it combines the futiristic-dystopian world and the poetry and art of the past. I miss it is most of the books. I love the minor characters, like Indie, Eli, Anna and Lei. Lei's story is heart-breaking and heart-warming at the same time. I finally understand Indie in this book. She is unique and strong and deeply hurt. One of the best aspects of this trilogy is the connection between the books. What is said in the first one is mentioned and important in the third one. Everything is connected and it is incredibly hard to make such a connection in such a perfect way. I just deeply love this trilogy and the third book is definitely the best of the series!!! \u201cThere is ebb and flow. Leaving and coming. Flight and fall. Sing and silent. Reaching and reached.\u201d ...more I just can't do it. I cannot make myself read this meaningless tripe. It's written as if the author was doped up at the time. All the characters seem to move slowly and talk slowly and think in circles. I don't care about the Rising or the Society or the Pilot. I hate to give this book more credit than its due, but the Pilot seems to be a metaphor for God. There are myths about this person, this person is mysterious, this person seems to be the one with the ultimate plan and the power...everyone I just can't do it. I cannot make myself read this meaningless tripe. It's written as if the author was doped up at the time. All the characters seem to move slowly and talk slowly and think in circles. I don't care about the Rising or the Society or the Pilot. I hate to give this book more credit than its due, but the Pilot seems to be a metaphor for God. There are myths about this person, this person is mysterious, this person seems to be the one with the ultimate plan and the power...everyone is wondering when the Pilot will reveal him/herself. I don't care if the Pilot is Pee-Wee Herman and he invites everyone back to his Playhouse. I don't care if Cassia ends up with Ky or Xander. Maybe they'll all live together and share the love and passion until Xander and Ky fall in love with each other and get rid of Cassia, who, in her despair, jumps into a blue police box which takes her to Raxacoricofallapatorius where she finds true love with a Slitheen...nah. She's too stupid. The Doctor would never have her as a companion. ...more CAN'T WAIT FOR THIS BOOK TO COME OUT!!! COME ON NOVEMBER 2012, GET HERE ALL READY!!! GRRRRRRR......", "Title": "Reached"},
