{"Comments": "If I had to describe <+++>Tiger's Curse</+++> in one word, that word would be embarrassing .<---F> I'm not joking</---F>. Have you ever been in the company of one of those people who is not vindictive or mean, but is unintentionally racist in a way that makes you feel really uncomfortable? Maybe they mimic a foreign accent and think they're being funny. Or they make a joke and don't know the history well enough to know how not fucking funny it is. This book is like one of those people. Let's start at the beginning of thi If I had to describe <+++>Tiger's Curse</+++> in one word, that word would be embarrassing . I'm not joking. Have you ever been in the company of one of those people who is not vindictive or mean, but is unintentionally racist in a way that makes you feel really uncomfortable? Maybe they mimic a foreign accent and think they're being funny. Or they make a joke and don't know the history well enough to know how not fucking funny it is. This book is like one of those people. Let's start at the beginning of this cringy, offensive, and downright stupid story . Small prologue aside, the story opens with Kelsey giggling inanely at a job interview. Despite having no qualifications and obviously being a few brain cells short of an IQ rating, Kelsey gets the job - one that requires her to live for two weeks with the circus. Right away something seemed a bit off when Kelsey hadn't mentioned to her foster parents that she was going for a job, never mind asking for permission to disappear for two weeks. Instead,<---M> she just comes home and says \u201cYo</---M>, I have a job living at the circus for two weeks\u201d and her mom is like \u201cOk, see ya!\u201d Bit odd. And it only gets weirder when she tells them she's going to India and they\u2019re like \u201cCool, whatevs!\u201d because they are super liberal hippies so that makes total sense. Again, a bit odd. Or should I say \"highly fucking convenient\"? I started feeling uncomfortable as soon as Kelsey arrived at the circus and the Italian owner speaks like this: \u201cI like de surprises. It keeps me-a young and a most handsome man.\u201d Oh no. Something shriveled up inside me as I considered what the Indian people would speak like. Well... India is not treated as a nation with people, cultures and history, it is treated as an exotic setting that Kelsey can swan about in and play dress-up. The Indian medicine man in the jungle is a caricature of an old Indian person and, as Vanessa pointed out , speaks like Yoda. But, of course, there's a much bigger problem here. And if you don't think it's an issue, then I strongly encourage you to read books about cultural imperialism or Edward Said's fantastic book about Western attitudes towards Middle Eastern, Asian and North African societies - Orientalism . Kelsey is an idiotic white american and yet somehow, though the population of India is more than 3x that of the United States, she is the chosen one to break this Hindu curse. Why the fuck would that be the case? Only a white person has the power to solve another culture\u2019s problems? Oh, I\u2019m sure the author didn\u2019t mean it that way, you say. I\u2019m sure she didn\u2019t intend to propagate the age-old idea that brown people need white people to think for them and save them... And, you know what? I think you\u2019re right. I\u2019m also sure the author didn\u2019t intend it that way because I don\u2019t think she gave a single fucking thought to how her representation of this culture would look . She wanted to write about a white girl and use \u201cexotic\u201d but not really Indian mythology, and that - as they say - was that. Not only is Kelsey the white saviour of the brown peoples, she is also smarter than the smartest Indians (<---B>if you can believe it!</---B>). Mr Kadam is supposed to be some amazing scholar on Hindu mythology and yet Kelsey the dumb manages to frequently educate him about things he didn\u2019t know/never thought of. A Hindu mythology, I might add, that has been both westernized and mixed up with other Asian mythology. Someone really needs to tell Ms Houck that \u201cAsian\u201d is a very non-specific term and covers a LOT of very different people. Someone also needs to tell her that Asian mythology shouldn\u2019t be grouped under one umbrella, and that using Japanese mythology in a book about Indian mythology is just dumb. Yes, for some reason, despite her lack of qualifications, friends, cultural respect and general brain cells, Kelsey is the chosen one. She is one of those characters that glows with an inexplicable specialness and yet never really demonstrates any reason why we should believe she is special. She just is, for fuck sake! Ren is a gorgeous prince and... that\u2019s it. Oh, sometimes he\u2019s crazy possessive too. It\u2019s not sexy. Though the obsession with beauty goes beyond Ren - many of the characters in the book are characterised solely by their looks: Ren, <---C>Kishan</---C>, Yesubai, Durga... they literally have no personality. But then again, neither does Kelsey beyond being annoying and stupid. This is honestly just a terrible book. Bad writing, bad characterization, extremely convenient events/occurrences propelling the plot... and that's before we even get to the racism. What a mess. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest ...more Umm, Obviously I've read it since I wrote it. Have most of the lines memorized now. **WARNING:** RANTING AHEAD.... This one is actually getting 1.5 stars NOT 2-- THAT'S how much I loath you Kelsey Hayes-- you can take your dumb \"love-plant\" and SHOVE IT. *********************************************** What would you do if someone offered you an all-expenses-paid trip to India with a mysterious white tiger who also happens to be a handsome Indian prince? Eighteen-year old Kelsey Hayes is faced with just this offer after spending 2 weeks working as a hired hand at a local circus one **WARNING:** RANTING AHEAD.... This one is actually getting 1.5 stars NOT 2-- THAT'S how much I loath you Kelsey Hayes-- you can take your dumb \"love-plant\" and SHOVE IT. *********************************************** What would you do if someone offered you an all-expenses-paid trip to India with a mysterious white tiger who also happens to be a handsome Indian prince? Eighteen-year old Kelsey Hayes is faced with just this offer after spending 2 weeks working as a hired hand at a local circus one summer-- and her life will never be the same. Soooo.... I had pretty much been *dying* to read this book for ages, and after reading review after raving review, I FINALLY picked it up off the shelves. I was so positively sure that I was going to absolutely love this book, that by the end, I would be in raptures and stumbling over myself trying to say enough good things about it. I don't know what the hell happened, but this book turned out to be an absolute joke. I KNOW , and I hate saying this, but I have to be honest. There were some things I liked about Tiger's Curse , but they were all completely overshadowed by some of the worst characterization I've ever encountered in a book. OK, here we go... So first, let me talk a little about Kelsey Hayes, the main character. At the beginning, I actually liked her. Laid-back, down-to-earth, and slightly quirky, she was a fun character to follow in the story. But then things started to go down hill-- rapidly . I noticed about a hundred pages in that Kelsey's way of talking and thinking could be *extremely* juvenile at times-- juvenile and annoying. I don't know if anyone else thought the same thing, but as I made my way through this book, I just didn't feel like I was reading from an 18-year old's perspective. Some of the expressions she uses (my FAVE was when she exclaimed, \"You wily scoundrel!\" when Kishan tries to kiss her- DUDE. FIND ME SOMEONE WHO TALKS LIKE THIS), the way she addresses people (\"oh hey there Mister!\" -- seriously? Is your main character from The Little Rascals?), and just her whole way of thinking seemed more like that of an immature little kid than an adult... And things only went from bad to worse when Ren the Prince stepped into the picture. If Kelsey was slightly childish and annoying to begin with, it was nothing compared to the infantile monstrosity she turns into in the last half of the book. The immaturity levels reached astronomical proportions. How you ask? Here are a few examples: 1.) She pouted and threw tiny tantrums when she was displeased about pretty much anything -- and rather than be an ADULT and communicate with Ren about how conflicted she was feeling, she turned into a cold and standoffish little biotch. Then, when the poor guy asks her what's wrong, she says \"nothing\" (in that way where it's obviously something ) and goes right back to being Ice Queen Supreme. Clearly, this is an awesome way to treat people. 2.) She had the *exceedingly* annoying defense mechanism of needing to make sarcastic quips every 5 second s, and the more defensive she got, the less likely it became for her to be serious or mature at crucial points in the story. I mean, the girl almost dies and the first thing she does upon waking up is crack a few dumb jokes-- well I'm sorry, but I don't want to read about a main character who acts like she's constantly auditioning at a comedy club (and failing miserably, I might add)-- I want her to have a grown-up, serious side too! It was just too much . There is no way in hell this chick was 18-- maybe 12? Maybe.... even that's pushing it. 3.) I just love how Kelsey was absolutely shocked and appalled when she sees Ren the Tiger-version and his brother hunt for food. She does realize that \"hunting\" involves killing something right?? And that tigers have a tendency towards being carnivores? And that tasty meat often comes from cute animals? I mean the girl had to actually sing herself to sleep to get over it-- no, I'm not making this up, she sings herself to sleep (\"happy songs\" from The Wizard of Oz ) because the tigers killed an antelope. Then she has nightmares about it. And she's eighteen -_- 4.) Kelsey just LOVES to continually tell us about her little \"love-plant\" for Ren-- because you know, normal people talk like this. By the end I wanted to take some pesticide spray and a blow torch to Kelsey's freaking love-plant and incinerate the damn thing into the ground... (I won't even get into the fact that she was dumb as a brick and could barely tie her own shoes without Ren holding her hand. But wait, you say! The book says she loves reading Shakespeare, well then she MUST be a total rocket scientist, no?? Give me a fa-reaking break Colleen- sorry my dear, but saying that your main protag reads Shakespeare does NOT make her smart and clever and oh-so-different from everyone else, because she comes across as a complete dumbass in everything else she thinks, does, and says. Need I mention how she nearly gets herself killed near Kishindha? Because she goes to grab a pretty sparkly diamond out of the water, moments after she and Ren nearly died because DUH the prophesy TOLD you not to believe your eyes and that things weren't as they seemed! GAWD she's like freaking Abu the monkey in Aladdin, literally that is who she reminded me of! **slaps forehead in total frustration**) But I think that out of all the things that bothered me about Kelsey, the VERY WORST was the fact that she made such a snap judgement about Ren-- without even giving him the chance to prove that he was a good guy -- and then proceeded to treat him like total crap for the rest of the book, all for absolutely NO REASON other than her own stinking insecurity that \"she wasn't good enough for him.\" Kelsey Hayes, you were to put it bluntly, one of THE most immature characters I have ever read about, and you need to go find yourself a therapist. Pronto . So... Let's just say that by the end of this book, I had never wanted to punch a main character in the face quite so badly as Kelsey \"Boo-Hoo I'll Never Be Good Enough So I'll Just Act Like a Bitch 24/7\" Hayes. While we're sitting in on How to Make Your Characters As Unlikable as Possible 101, let's take a look at Ren. Overall, the guy wasn't too bad when you stand back and see him over the course of the book-- but I still couldn't stand him. And the thing is, he wouldn't have been such an unlikable character if the author hadn't set him up to be totally unlikable . To prove my point, here are just a few of the phrases used to describe Ren's actions in this book: -Laughed \"acerbically\" -Smiled \"mockingly\" and \"malevolently\" -grinned \"maliciously\" -scoffed and smirked -was \"annoyingly happy\" Now you tell me-- would you like a character whose behavior is described this way?? The guy is annoying even when he's happy for crying out loud, and the rest of the time he's described as being a total ass-hat, and I'm supposed to be falling in love with him?!? I mean he sounds like a complete douche, amirite?? There's only two explanations for this kind of character portrayal: 1.) Ren is , in fact, a douche-- in which case I can't stand him and hope he jumps off a cliff, or 2.) Ren is actually a good guy and all of this is Kelsey's perception of him-- in which case Kelsey is *psycho cray cray* and I hope she jumps off a cliff. In either case, I'm really not rooting for your characters. Then there's the fact that Ren is-- according to the story-- hundreds of years old. And it seems like in every YA story where one of the characters has been around for a long time (Twilight, Fallen...) we're just supposed to forget this fact and think it makes total sense for them to act like immature teenagers and have character dialogue that's somewhere along the lines of \"Ohemgee totally!!.\" I mean here we have this 300-year old Indian prince and he's referring to Kelsey as \"Kells??\" Are you freaking kidding me??? So yes, this made Ren even MORE obnoxious as a main character, if that's even possible. (And oh, hey-- let's not even get into the glaring \"ick\" factor that this kind of plot point brings up: a 300-year old guy is flirting and trying to get with an 18-year old girl. Really. THINK ABOUT IT.) I also felt like the pacing of the plot was slightly off. Overall, I thought that the story itself was pretty good-- I loved the Indian setting and the adventurous element it had going on-- but there was just a lot of superfluous description that got in the way for me. For example, when Kelsey gets on the plane to go to India, I thought we were never going to hear the end of all the luxurious details of the plane's interior and the food they ate. Don't get me wrong, I think that adding vivid description to your story is wonderful and sets the backdrop for all the action, but I also think there is a way to describe a scene while still leaving something up to the reader's imagination! I mean, do I *really* care what color hair ribbon Kelsey ties in her braids every day? And by the by, how many 18-year-olds do YOU know who tie hair ribbons in their braids? Or walk around with their blanket like they're freaking Linus from Charlie Brown?? JUST SAYING. Besides plot pacing being off, many parts of the plot made ZERO SENSE. Tell me, how many foster parents do you know, who seem to be fairly sensible and, oh I don't know, **SANE** let their foster-daughter go off on a trip to INDIA with a strange older man and a tiger, after meeting said man ONE TIME?? This is basically how things played out: 1.) Kelsey works 2 weeks as a hired hand at a circus (WHICH she got from some super-shady work placement company) 2.) Kelsey reads Shakespeare to the tiger at said circus (Hmm yeah, that's totally normal) and then a strange Indian man shows up and tells Kelsey she is PERFECT for taking care of the tiger, if she can only GO TO INDIA to put tiger in a nature reserve (***RED FLAGS GOING OFF HERE***). 3.) Kelsey's parents AGREE TO LET HER GO TO INDIA with strange older man after meeting him once, and within a WEEK Kelsey has all her documentation, passports, vaccines, etc. taken care of and is on a plane to India to take care of a rare white tiger species because 2 weeks of sweeping up crap at a circus has turned her into an animal GENIUS. **Insert dumb-founded expression HERE 0_o** Also-- and this is something I didn't even fully realize until awhile after I finished reading it-- but this book is BEYOND RACIST . It basically portrays Indian people as pathetic simpletons with horrible broken English (Ummm guess what Colleen? Many Indian people know how to speak English, and those who don't aren't idiots who you can write about as though they're incoherent monkeys...) Mr. Kadam, the Indian man employed by Prince Ren, basically spends the entire book kissing the ground Kelsey Hayes walks on, waxing eloquent about how amazing she is. WHY?? What the flying you-know-what is so awesome about Kelsey Hayes?? She's a vapid, lazy and stuck-up wish fulfillment device who is glorified by everyone for no good reason. Pretty much everyone in this book who is NOT WHITE AMERICAN is ignorantly and disrespectfully portrayed like a cartoon, exaggerated to the point of being comical-- except that it ISN'T FUNNY because it's straight-up RACISM. Then we have Kelsey- the White Girl Who Saves the Day- someone with absolutely no qualifications or connection to Indian culture, who we find out is actually the \"Chosen One\" of the Indian goddess Durga. YEAH YOU HEARD ME RIGHT. Kelsey, the most ignorant and brain-dead character ever conceived for YA fiction, the lazy American white girl who acts like a spoiled whiny little brat for 400+ freaking pages- is the savior of the Indian people. Excuse me while I very loudly exclaim: WTF?!?!? ------------------------------------------------------------- As far as the romance goes, well if you're a fan of train wrecks, you're going to be in 7th heaven because this was just about as dysfunctional as they come. It was like watching two cars heading for a straight-on collision, and not being able to do a damn thing about it, so you just sit there with the same horrified expression on your face that you'd have if you accidentally swallowed a mouthful of spoiled milk. Three-month-old spoiled milk. I've already described Kelsey's emotional constipation and total lack of ability to do anything remotely mature, but I also didn't like how possessive Ren got of Kelsey as the story went on. Protective tiger-- awesome, Possessive love interest-- HELL to the NO. Not a fan. I was also pretty annoyed at the good ol' YA ploy of presenting the main character as Ms. I'm-Totally-Average-But-Every-Guy-Who-Sees-Me-Falls-Inexplicably-Yet-Madly-In-Love-With-Me-Tee-Hee!-- because it's been done SO many times. In fact, it's gotten to be about as cliche as being Disney-Princess-Perfect. Which brings me to... **************** My Brief Bookish Rant **************** Yeah so after all that, you're probably wondering what the heck else I have to rant about. (Do not underestimate my ranting skills * whahahaha! *) So here is my totally random gripe-- and trust me, this is random-- that I have to get off my shoulders. And I'm not trying to pick on this book specifically, it's more of a general trend that I see again and again in YA books-- and my slightly annoyed question is this: WHY do authors always make a POINT of telling us that their main female characters never or seldom wear makeup? I know, I know, this is such a dumb thing to rant about, but for *some reason* it bothers me. I mean, is there something bad about wearing makeup or doing your hair on a regular basis? Do they think that makeup makes their protagonist seem stupid or fake? Do they assume that readers won't relate to a character who wears makeup because... I don't know, people who read don't wear makeup? Like why does it even need to be mentioned? It's like they expect me the reader to go, \"Ohh, she doesn't wear makeup! Well I can respect her a lot more now!\" And then on the other side of things, the \"mean girl\" or the bitchy back-stabber is often described as wearing makeup or being super tan or having the latest fashions. WHY?? Is it a given that if a girl cares about her appearance she must be less of a person? If the main character is a frumpy Plain-Jane who's never worn heels and who thinks at best she's \"average,\" am I supposed to like her more? What exactly are you trying to convey to me the reader when you tell me that your main character doesn't wear makeup? I just don't see what the heck this has to do with the characterization of someone, and personally I couldn't care less whether the main character wears makeup or not, so stop bringing it up like it's a determining factor in whether or not I'll relate to/like/respect that character more! (I will mention that Kelsey does get dolled up a few times in the book, but what irked me was her complete inability to see herself as being attractive, no matter what. This is not a good character trait. Insecurity and false modesty are NOT attractive in anyone-- it's extremely immature and I CAN'T STAND characters that constantly use self-pity and self-deprecation to excuse themselves from acting grown-up. SO STOP IT RIGHT NOW!! ) OK, rant over. I feel much better now! ~Final Thoughts~ Tiger's Curse is one of those books that I think appeals to a large group of people because it has a lot of great things going on-- romance, adventure, travel, mystery, an ancient curse-- I mean, what's not to love about that? BUT-- and this is a big but-- none of them, in my opinion, were executed well. The romance devolved into two spoiled teenagers acting like juvenile brats, the adventure and mystery were bogged down by way too much description, and honestly, by the end I was so fed up with the main characters that I really couldn't care less about where the story was going-- I just wanted it to end so I didn't have to constantly fight the temptation to throw the book out the window of a 50-story building. So my final word with this one is- proceed with caution. While I can see the appeal for many readers, if you are like me and can't stand pointless drama, immature dialogue, and characters who act much younger than their years, you might want to think twice before picking this one up. On the other hand, the ratings overall for Tiger's Curse are extremely good, so this may very well be a case of me just personally not liking it. \u00a0Read what other people had to say about this book, you might end up loving it-- I, unfortunately, was not one of those people. ~Lea @ LC's Adventures in Libraryland ...more Seriously, GR? I mean, SERIOUSLY? You thought you could just... delete my review and it would be gone forever? I'll take your deletion and raise you one cached copy of my review and one middle finger. My five year old nephew had to prepare a piece about himself for kindergarten last week. It went something like this: Hi, my name is Manoj. I'm five years old. I like singing. I am also a good dancer. My favourite food is Maggi noodles. What's shocking is that <---A>Colleen Houck</---A>'s prose bears a startlin Seriously, GR? I mean, SERIOUSLY? You thought you could just... delete my review and it would be gone forever? I'll take your deletion and raise you one cached copy of my review and one middle finger. My five year old nephew had to prepare a piece about himself for kindergarten last week. It went something like this: Hi, my name is Manoj. I'm five years old. I like singing. I am also a good dancer. My favourite food is Maggi noodles. What's shocking is that Colleen Houck's prose bears a startling resemblance to my nephew's. I kid you not. If this story had been written by a twelve year old, I might have respected her acumen. Coming from a fully grown woman, it's just sad. There is literally nothing to recommend this book. The writing style is terrible; whoever edited this book will go to a special hell reserved for bad editors. The research is awful, the characterisation is complete crap and I am running out of adjectives to describe how bad this book is. The sad thing is, I was really excited by the premise of Tiger's Curse. There are so few fantasy stories set in India, or around Indian mythology, despite the vast potential for fascinating, or scary, or just plain interesting plotlines to be mined from Indian culture. Ilona Andrews, for example, did a fabulous job with the rakshasas in Magic Strikes . So when I read about this book, about an Indian prince cursed to be a tiger, I couldn't wait to dive into some really fresh, interesting writing. Boy, was I conned. Kelsey is an eighteen year old high school graduate who takes up a summer job in a small circus in Oregon. She befriends a white tiger at the circus, and when a rich Indian man buys the tiger, she is asked to accompany Dhiren, the tiger, to his new home in a sanctuary in India. Once in India, she discovers that the tiger is actually a prince who was cursed by an evil sorceror who coveted his fabled amulet. Kelsey and Dhiren begin an epic journey to break the curse and restore Dhiren. Unfortunately the only epic thing about the entire quest was its stupidity. The only fun I had reading this book was discovering how Microsoft Reader has all these cool colored bookmarks that I could use to highlight the stupidity of the story. I could even add little bitchy text notes on the side! So, let's take my bookmarked bits in order. Grinning with a sinister, saccharine smile, Lokesh said... Okay, what self-respecting editor would actually allow someone to get away with writing a sentence like this? It's as if she swallowed a dictionary and vomited it. You know that episode of Friends where Joey had to write a recommendation to the adoption agency for Monica and Chandler, and Ross showed him how to use the thesaurus function? Yep, that's exactly what this is like. \u201cHmm,\u201d I muttered to myself, \u201cI wonder what kind of animals they have there. I\u2019d hate to take care of the elephant droppings.\u201d I giggled quietly at my own joke but the lady wasn\u2019t paying attention. Hmm, I wonder why? Could it possibly be because you weren't funny ?! How is this a joke? It didn't make me want to laugh, it made me want to chuck a book at her head! Their example taught me that, \u201cWhen life gives you lemons make some lemon meringue pie!\u201d This is just pathetic. She goes on to tell us how lemon merigue pie is her favourite dessert for Thanksgiving. Who. Gives. A. Fuck? Once, I tried to tell one of the girls I often partnered with in science lab that she was crazy to wear heels to school. I even asked if she was scared that she might fall down and break an ankle or something. The inevitable giggle whisper fest occurred between her and her friends. After that incident, it just didn\u2019t seem worth it or important enough to me to try to befriend anyone in high school. I am sorry to say this, but this girl is a loser. A BIG, FAT LOSER. With a giant L tattooed on her forehead. She had a stupid conversation with a random girl about wearing heels to school, and on the strength of that, decided to never befriend anyone ever again? Good decision there, cause who would WANT to be friends with this moron? My skills in sewing, embroidering, cooking, and coloring in a coloring book the fancy way all came from her patient teaching. Is this girl some sort of throwback to the Quakers or something? Or maybe Amish? Although I would think even Amish grandmoms had something better to teach their grandkids than how to 'color in a coloring book the fancy way'. I thought I had a little bit of OCD because my drawers were also meticulously tidy. My socks were all rolled in balls, arranged from the front of the drawer to the back. I usually grabbed the front ones and worked my way to the back. White socks were lined up on the right, black ones in the middle, and colored ones on the left. This, after she has spent a page describing the rest of her closet. TMI, woman, TMI! What does this have to do with the damn cursed prince story, anyway? \u201cAt the present, you must respite. Important sunrise is tomorrow. Phet must pray in the dark hours, and you necessity sleep. Embark on tomorrow your traverse. It\u2019s hard as difficult.\" Who really talks like this, apart from Yoda? And this is not a little green man from another galaxy, this is a reclusive Indian monk who, I am guessing, doesn't know much English, although if he learnt words like 'embark' and 'traverse' and 'respite', I don't see why he couldn't have learnt some grammar to go with them. This is not how Indian people talk. I promise. This is about the point where even the multicolored bookmarks didn't make it fun enough to keep highlighting the mass stupidity that is this book. Colleen Houck is incapable of telling a story. She spends about three pages, in a question-and-answer session about tigers. If I wanted to know about the eating habits of a tiger, I would look it up on Wikipedia. This is not storytelling, its an INFODUMP. I don't know who told this woman that question-and-answer formats are a good way to fill in the background, because she does it AGAIN, devoting a large amount of unnecessary wordspace to describing the caste system in India. By this point you're already halfway through the book and looking for any excuse to throw it in the trash, so she's not really selling her book with her innovative writing style. And don't even get me started on her research. According to this story, one can buy a white tiger, an endangered species, ship it on a private plane to India in the same cabin as the humans and then unload it just as if it were a particularly large stuffed toy, and put a collar on it and lead it around. Now I don't know very much about the laws governing the international transport of a protected, endangered species, but a degree in law and basic common sense tells me that there are bound to be tests, quarantine laws, rules governing transportation, etc. before releasing a tiger into the wild. But hey, that's the real world, right? Also, Kelsey spends a large part of the book running around with a white tiger in the backseat of her Jeep. And nobody notices. Nope, not even when the truck driver who was supposed to be transporting them to the tiger sanctuary offloads the tiger in the middle of the street and fucks off. And this is in a town, not the middle of the forest or anything. So apparently, in addition to talking like Master Yoda and being careless with our endangered species, we Indians are also deaf, dumb and blind. These are only the major, glaring errors in the book. There are a bunch of other minor irritants too. Functional cellphones in the middle of the forest, for example. Please, sometimes, I don't get cellphone service a few miles out of the city, but this girl miraculously gets it in the middle of the jungle where there are NO CELLULAR TOWERS? She must be using Barrons' magical cellphone! Hey, can I get one? And the 'chemistry' between our moronic heroine and her tiger-man is non-existent. Dhiren is a badly drawn character with no depth. He apparently reappears after every transformation from tiger to man in the clothes that he wore when he was cursed. These are... wait for it... white trousers and a long-sleeved white shirt. Yup. I am beyond words. A simple Wiki search will tell anyone what the clothing of 16th century India was amongst the ruling caste, and trousers and a shirt aren't it. Ugh, and when he asks for 'permission' to kiss her, she blathers on about how asking for permission is so old-fashioned, and then berates herself about it forever when he stalks off. I'm embarrassed for this girl, and I think the best thing for her to have done afterwards was to have drowned herself in the pool so that we didn't have to put up with any more of her stupidity. And besides, no 16th century Indian man would dream of kissing a white woman. He'd lose his caste, and that kind of stuff was important to people back then. And the worst part is, this is the first book in a trilogy. There is plenty more torture to come for anyone who cares to subject themselves to this masochism. Considering I didn't manage to get more than halfway through this book, you can be sure I won't be wasting my money on this shit! ...more Tiger\u2019s Curse has to be one of the most embarrassingly incompetent books I have ever read. When I first read it in February 2012, I railed against its poor quality and abominably ridiculous characters, but ultimately didn\u2019t include it in my end-of-year ranking of the worst books I\u2019d read. In fact, I was even generous enough to give it half a star for some modicum of originality. I\u2019m now prepared to shave off that half a star and promise to kick my paradox self upside the head if I ever get the op Tiger\u2019s Curse has to be one of the most embarrassingly incompetent books I have ever read. When I first read it in February 2012, I railed against its poor quality and abominably ridiculous characters, but ultimately didn\u2019t include it in my end-of-year ranking of the worst books I\u2019d read. In fact, I was even generous enough to give it half a star for some modicum of originality. I\u2019m now prepared to shave off that half a star and promise to kick my paradox self upside the head if I ever get the opportunity to time travel back to that year. Compared to the stereotypical paranormal romances and dystopias that have characterised young adult fiction for the past few years, the premise for Tiger\u2019s Curse was downright refreshing. An adventure story in a far-flung country rather than some stationary high school drama? Sign me up! It\u2019s just a shame that what I got was a white saviour story with appallingly bad writing. In fact, the author herself is quite happy to excuse lazy, hackneyed writing as simply following the Hero\u2019s Journey boilerplate (a BIG no-no if you know anything about creative writing), and Westernising her mythology and shrugging that you shouldn\u2019t use it to pass any \u2018mythology exams.\u2019 Yeah. A living, breathing modern culture with ancient roots, and the author doesn\u2019t seem to have bothered to even glance over Wikipedia in some instances. In fact, there\u2019s a scene where Kelsey has an afternoon to herself in a library, and picks out a book on Hindu mythology. One paragraph in, she\u2019s complaining about there being \u2018too many names\u2019 (when there are only three or four), and she actually falls asleep before going any further. That sums up the research process to me. This isn\u2019t the work of somebody who had a deep fascination with mythology, took books on Desi scripture and folklore out of the library and read academic articles on the Indian subcontinent\u2019s ancient literature. I also recall Houck jokingly saying that Kelsey is an orphan, simply to \u2018get the pesky parents out of the way\u2019 so she can start along on the Hero\u2019s Journey. Well\u2026 Why would you even do that? Ignoring the fact that the Hero\u2019s Journey is an archetypal story structure and not something you should use as a template, there\u2019s pretty much no need for Kelsey to be an orphan. As far as I see it, Kelsey being an orphan was just an excuse to pad out the story with overly theatrical scenes where Kelsey narrates how she\u2019s closing off her heart!! Usually following some sort of relationship drama (also there to pad out the plot) with Dhiren or Kishan, the aforementioned princes. Why, prithee, couldn\u2019t Kelsey have her parents still alive? Imagine a world where Kelsey wants to study to be a veterinarian, and her parents are ecstatic that a benefactor from India offers her a summer job at an animal reserve. Imagine that this Kelsey also has Indian heritage and wants to learn about her roots, so her parents are happy for her to travel. Rather than the white bread, stale YA heroine that\u2019s been used time and time again. The book kicks off with Kelsey getting a job looking after circus animals (including a motherloving tiger ), despite a rather huge lack of qualifications. It turns out she has a connection with this mysterious beast, however, and soon she is whisked off to India to accompany the tiger to an animal reserve. This turns out to be false, however, and Kelsey is drawn into a centuries-old curse it seems only she can break. In fact, Kelsey is prophesied as Durga\u2019s chosen one. Admittedly, the story does mention once or twice that it\u2019s odd for Durga to choose somebody who has no connection to the cultures that venerate her, but it\u2019s always skimmed over. Kelsey is a white American who doesn\u2019t even bother to learn about Hindu culture or mythology, yet she\u2019s the chosen one. How do you think the goddess\u2019 adherents would feel? I\u2019d be pretty annoyed. Being the chosen one to break the curse also carries the implication that only a white person has the power to solve a problem that lies in another culture. And if you can\u2019t see how that\u2019s problematic, I invite you to walk down to your local library and crack open a few books on cultural imperialism. In order to find the magical MacGuffin known as the Amulet of Damon (that\u2019s supposedly key to breaking this curse but is hardly ever mentioned), it turns out that Kelsey has to solve a few puzzles here and there whilst exploring ancient temples. The book follows the Mary Sue methodology, however \u2013 Kelsey is always the first one to come up with the solution to the puzzle. Despite the fact that Dhiren\u2019s benefactor, Mr. Kadam, is a scholar who has had three hundred years to start solving the curse, Kelsey swans in and is able to fix things right away. Which leads us to our talk about colonialism. Kelsey is literally Dhiren and Kishan\u2019s saviour, and later, there\u2019s something about the holder of a mythical item called the Golden Fruit being the saviour of India\u2019s hunger problems. Kelsey is able to solve centuries-old quandaries with very little effort on her part, and as mentioned before, she\u2019s the chosen one of a native goddess. Kelsey is the white person who comes in to \u2018fix\u2019 things for an Indian figurehead, prancing around in culturally-appropriative dress (like henna, a sharara), and always treating the country she\u2019s in like it\u2019s some wonderfully \u2018exotic\u2019 backdrop rather than an actual nation with a history and an identity outside of: \u201cOoh, India has pretty architecture/culture/mythology! So pretty! Pretty pretty pretty.\u201d As mentioned earlier, the author doesn\u2019t seem to have done much research beyond the first few search results in Google. It never actually feels like we\u2019re in India. In fact, all the parts where we\u2019re following Kelsey and Dhiren on their quests through ancient temples feel like somebody wrote up a description of the Indian temple stage in Tomb Raider III. There\u2019s a vague mention of an actual temple once, but it\u2019s just in name only. Characters never really explain why Kelsey is special. She just is. Scarce to say, I have never come across such a bland protagonist in my life. Kelsey has pretty much nothing going for her \u2013 no education outside of her high school diploma, and pretty much nothing interesting going for her. There\u2019s no mention of her having any friends in the preliminary chapters. All she does is live with her foster family, read, and attend school. You\u2019d expect a 17 year old to be somewhat well-rounded and have more to their personality than that, but no. Well, actually, Kelsey does have a personality. If making corny jokes and speaking like a PSA narrator from the 1940s is a personality. Later on, Kelsey becomes bitterly sarcastic (even though her fluency in sarcasm is utterly pathetic), and it\u2019s an utterly jarring shift. But yes, Kelsey is told by an Indian medicine man in the middle of the jungle that she is the chosen one of Durga. The medicine man speaks like Yoda and paints the magical henna on Kelsey\u2019s hand that glows when she finally gets to meet Durga in the flesh. Enough about Kelsey, though \u2013 Dhiren (nicknamed \u2018Ren\u2019) also had a vacuum taken to any interesting facets of his character. He is basically the archetypal prince. Gorgeous, regal, and a bit of a spoiled brat when things don\u2019t go his way. The latter aspect results in several instances of him being horribly possessive over Kelsey, even when she tries to break things off with him. In fact, his brother Kishan is the safer bet, but he\u2019s so rarely in the plot. Which brings us to Mr. Kadam, the man-at-arms from back when Ren and Kishan were the princes of the Mujulaain Empire. Mr. Kadam was also cursed by the evil wizard who usurped the kingdom, but he retains his human form. Somehow, despite the fact that he\u2019s immortal, all he really needs to do is just contact one of his descendants every once in a while, fill them in on the curse, and expect them to help out. That\u2019s\u2026 awfully convenient. In fact, in the Tiger\u2019s Curse drinking game I have planned, there\u2019s a rule where you take a shot every single time something terribly convenient happens in the plot. * Kelsey\u2019s foster parents are awfully okay with her going to India simply because they\u2019re liberal health food hippies and not subject to social workers who would like to keep tabs on Kelsey? (No, I don\u2019t care that she turns eighteen in the story. My foster sisters were considered the responsibility of not only my parents, but the social care system up until they were twenty. ) * Dhiren the tiger has been passed around various circuses worldwide for hundreds of years, and has never had any paperwork following him around, and he can be sold on to different circuses or travel the world with no problem despite being appearing to be a member of an endangered species? Ren tells us at one point that if he ever wanted to move on from a circus, he\u2019d just act aggressive and the circuses would sell him on to another owner. Awfully convenient, considering that violent circus animals tend to be killed rather than sold on. You can also take a sip every time there\u2019s some bastardised mythology. Particularly in chapters 21-22, where kappa \u2013 traditionally Japanese monsters \u2013 show up in a mythical realm as an obstacle for Kelsey and Ren to pass through. Eh, who cares, right? It\u2019s not like the author could have done research or asked her editor in India if there are monsters in Indian folklore who dwell in bodies of water. \"It\u2019s Asia! Who cares!\" The next book she\u2019s writing has Mongolian sand-worms showing up in Egypt, of all places. \"Eh, they\u2019re desert regions. Who cares!\" Speaking of Asia, there\u2019s this weird part in the book where Ren and Kishan\u2019s mother is brought up. Her name is Deschen, and it is never ever told to us what country she comes from. They mention all the time that she\u2019s \u2018Asian\u2019, but that means nothing. India is a part of Asia. Everything east of the Ural mountains is Asia. Deschen could be from any Asian culture if you\u2019re just going to call her \u2018Asian\u2019: Chinese, Cossack, Korean, Desi, Mongolian, Cambodian, Vietnamese, Taiwanese, Indonesian, Malaysian, Russian, Kazakh, Uzbek, Tatar, Turkmen, Turkish, Japanese, Kyrgyz, or their equivalents from three hundred years ago. Simply describing one character as \u2018Asian\u2019 makes as much sense as calling Prince William the Prince of England, but only ever referring to Duchess Catherine as being \u2018European\u2019. But, Deschen taught the princes everything they know; such as the fact that Kappa must be bowed to in order to defeat them. Somebody with a vaguely Chinese sounding name, living in a period where Japan is completely isolated and isn\u2019t involved in any cultural sharing, knowing about kappa. Hello! One of the biggest mythological stinkers is the scene where Mr. Kadam and Kelsey get on an airplane (by the way, Mr. Kadam manages to sort out Ren and Kelsey\u2019s travelling papers in lightning-fast time) and he quotes a teaching from the Qu\u2019ran that says Allah would send down a tiger to protect his adherents. A Muslim friend of mine told me that in most translations, it\u2019s a \u2018beast\u2019 and not a tiger. Plus, Islam\u2019s roots took place somewhere that isn\u2019t really known for an abundance of tigers. Lions, maybe. Not tigers. I\u2019m sure that throughout literature, people have taken folkloric elements from other cultures and slightly switched them around a little to their writerly ambitions. But the way the kappa just show up in Hanuman\u2019s realm is completely bizarre. They\u2019re not the toad/duck hybrids who love cucumber, they\u2019re bleach-white aquatic vampire creatures who have a thirst for blood. But also cucumbers. The kappa scene is ridiculous in that to begin with, they are perfectly harmless. Kelsey and Ren cross a narrow chasm with bodies of water on either side filled with kappa, and not once do the slimy, dangerous man-eating monsters swim close to the bank and pull our heroes in by the ankles. They just tread water and watch. They don\u2019t try to set a trap for Ren and Kelsey when they\u2019re trying to fix a drawbridge. They just bob about in the water and watch. But, later on they actually get out of the rivers and chase after Ren and Kelsey\u2026 just to up the ante, I presume? Kelsey gets bitten by one and nearly dies, and honestly,I was hoping she\u2019d stay dead. But nope, the universe hates me. Another part of the drinking game involves Mr. Kadam. Simply take a sip every time he info-dumps as if his dialogue is copy-pasted straight out of Wikipedia, and every single time he adulates Kelsey. This man is supposed to have been a scholar of mythology, somebody who wants the curse lifted and will do anything to help Ren and Kishan, even following Ren around the world when he was sold to a circus. But Kelsey makes observations that he seems to have never thought of, and by golly, isn\u2019t the white woman from the privileged background so much more wonderful and more observant than me? Ugh. I can\u2019t quite get a grip on what inspired this story. I mean, there\u2019s a patchwork of derivative elements here and there. One moment, it\u2019s a Twilight rip-off with a were-tiger instead of a vampire, then it\u2019s sort of Beauty and the Beast , and then it\u2019s every single YA paranormal romance you have ever read, so much so that you can play bingo with every trite thing that shows up. Heroine with a lack of self esteem? Check. Heroine who is tailored to look like the author? Check. Paranormal boyfriend with possession issues? Check. Second corner of a love triangle showing up and actually seeming like a decent person in comparison? Check. Love interest has emotional baggage? Check. You could get a full house with this book, I tell you. The writing is absolutely pants at times, needing several more revisions before it was due to hit the big time. Characters often speak completely robotically as if the author was never told you should read your dialogue aloud, and was also told that it is much more imperative to describe clothing and facial features, or the luxurious furniture in the room than the exciting adventures our protagonists embark on to break the curse. In fact, early on in their private jet, Kelsey takes the time to detail just how the shower room has pumps with equal amounts of soap and shampoo, the shower has copper detailing, et cetera. Do we ever return to this amazing bathroom? No? Then why would you detail it so much? Speaking of over-describing faces and clothing choices, there\u2019s this odd preoccupation with beauty in this book. The two princes are the most handsome men you will ever meet and \u2018any girl would be an idiot to turn them down.\u2019 Yesubai, the two princes\u2019 love interest from back in the day is only characterised by how pretty she is. Durga is only ever referred to by how beautiful she is, rather than being a benevolent, wise goddess. I wouldn\u2019t normally care to point this out, but the fixation is rather odd. Back to the writing; the pacing is all over the place. Kelsey zooms through her life in America before managing to travel to India with documents so quickly obtained that I\u2019d be wondering if Mr. Kadam had committed forgery. There are several plodding times where Kelsey does nothing but sit around in the exquisite McMansion in the middle of the jungle (seriously, the hell?) that Mr. Kadam owns. Even when Kelsey and Dhiren have to sneak into a temple, there\u2019s no tension whatsoever. In one (guarded) temple, Kelsey hits the nearby musical columns to make an offering, and yet no guards come to check out the noise. Even though there\u2019s no way she could have hit a giant musical instrument \u2018gently\u2019, as the book states. Ever tried banging a gong gently? People in the nearby vicinity are still going to hear it, no matter how softly you hit it. Let\u2019s not forget the final chapter, which nearly had me clawing my eyes out just so I would have something to do. Basically, Ren and Kelsey escape Hanuman\u2019s realm, and spend the rest of their time recuperating in the mansion. No revelations about the plot are made, except for Kelsey to discover that the Golden Fruit MacGuffin grants food-based wishes. (By the way, Houck \u2013 writing a character with a magical food-granting item and only ever using it to wish sandwiches and fruit juice out of thin air, and to wish for a food she doesn\u2019t like so she can throw it in the waste bin, whilst staying in a country which has a high rate of absolute poverty and malnutrition? Really not a way to endear her to readers.) Oh, and Kelsey has to go through this painfully-written, plodding relationship drama with Ren. I couldn\u2019t believe at some points that I was about six or seven pages from the end and yet Kelsey and Mr. Kadam go to a swanky restaurant so that more relationship drama can be shoehorned in? Really? The ending is pathetic. It just ends with a poorly thought out ellipsis that\u2019s supposed to function as a cliffhanger. It\u2019s like when you read fanfic and the author just randomly ends their chapter because they feel they\u2019ve been going on for too long. There\u2019s also an epilogue tacked on, and it\u2019s utterly terrible. Some rich, clearly evil guy stands in an office in a skyscraper, and his assistant walks in to tell him that they have found somebody. To which the clearly villainous fellow does everything but twiddle his moustache before we fade into the Acknowledgements. My god, what a genius sequel-grab! There are several spelling and grammar mistakes, and if I told you to take a shot every time a painfully clunky run-on sentence reared its ugly head, I\u2019m afraid you\u2019d be in hospital by the fourth chapter. What I find utterly bizarre is that in between its popularity on Amazon\u2019s self publishing programme, and the physical publication, no edits were made to it. I bought this e-book in 2012 and yet there\u2019s so many mistakes. Did nobody at Hodder & Stoughton or Sterling care? So\u2026 what does this book really have going for it? Nothing, really. Nothing at all. I don\u2019t know why I ever thought to even slightly praise it for originality when it\u2019s just a Twilight knock-off. Stephenie Meyer may not be the greatest writer of our time, but she\u2019s Ernest Hemingway in comparison to Colleen Houck. The characters are bland, lacking personality and obsessed with looks. Kelsey\u2019s narration over-describes everything except what we actually paid admission for \u2013 the frigging adventure quests to break the curse. The book has a colonialist subtext which really should have been brought up by at least one editor. You\u2019ve got a white woman coming in to India and effortlessly saving them from a problem that they have been struggling with for years, and treating Indians like caricatures as opposed to people from a modern country \u2013 Mr. Kadam is always willing to please, Ren and Kishan are the hunky exotic princes, and then there\u2019s the Master Yoda character who speaks broken English and does nothing else except tell Kelsey how special she is for being the chosen one. Gag me with a fork. I started blogging chapter reviews of this book in May, and I finally finished in December. Much happened during those six months, but the fact remains that this is one of the worst books I have ever dedicated half a year\u2019s worth of blog posts to, and I know what\u2019s going firmly on my worst book list this year. 1/5. (This review is also available on my blog: http://nessasky.wordpress.com/2013/12... ) ...more If you are looking for a good YA paranormal romance series, look no further. SERIOUSLY . You will read, re-read , and then read some more ... until your entire life, lives, breaths, screams , TIGER , and your family threatens to have you committed. Just start collecting everything Tiger now, and save yourself some time. :) Now that I've got that out of the way, lets start with the review. Appearance... The first thing I noticed when I spotted this book was the detail in the cover. I'm not a shallow If you are looking for a good YA paranormal romance series, look no further. SERIOUSLY . You will read, re-read , and then read some more ... until your entire life, lives, breaths, screams , TIGER , and your family threatens to have you committed. Just start collecting everything Tiger now, and save yourself some time. :) Now that I've got that out of the way, lets start with the review. Appearance... The first thing I noticed when I spotted this book was the detail in the cover. I'm not a shallow woman, but I do admit that a pretty cover will catch my eye. I love that the cover is textured, and that when you turned it in the light, it picks up multiple colors. The way the design is blended gives it an almost smokey, or misted image, that is haunting. Which makes it all the more appropriate, because this story sticks with you, long after your finished reading it. It will invade your dreams, your waking thoughts, until you find yourself drawing little hearts encircling the name, Ren.:))) The second thing that impressed me was the weight of the book. Call me crazy, [If you've made it this far into my review, I'm sure your already questioning my sanity], but when your a dedicated reader, you love the feel of the book in your hands, the texture and smell of the pages. So when I picked up this book to take a peek at the content, I was more than impressed with how solid it felt in my hand. Content, getting to the story line ... Colleen Houck did a fantastic job, thinking through the world she created for this series. It is very apparent while reading, the dedication she put into the research supporting the plot. The amount of detail intricately woven into the story, made it easy to visualize what the characters were seeing. It was like sitting front row center of the ultimate movie. [without the stiff neck]. :) FANTASTIC! The series is unique. We have seen many series based off Angels, Nephilum, Vampires, Werewolves, Fey, Mermaids, Shape shifters, Ghosts, Zombies, ...ext. However, this is the first series I have ever read based on Tigers. It was fresh and took me into uncharted territory. I really learned a great deal while reading this book. It was laced with Indian culture, history, and religious practices, that were simulated beautifully. I felt like I was vacationing in foreign land while sitting in my living room. Kudos Colleen. You went above and beyond making this story believable to your readers! I appreciate the balance between the history, action, and romance. It didn't matter which direction the book was taking, I continually found myself turning the pages needing to know what the outcome was. Once I started, I found it impossible to put down. Once I was finished, I found myself flipping back to the first page. I promise you, this will be a book you read multiple times! The characters .... Wow, where do I begin? .... Kesley is the heroin of this book. She was well built, and I found it easy to connect with her. I appreciate her strength, and integrity in following through on her word. I also relate to her independent nature, and hesitance in allowing herself to be vulnerable enough to get hurt. Though there were times I was screaming at my book for choices she made, ... I appreciated the suspense it built, which was what kept me diving deeper and deeper into the story. Mr. Kadam ... how awesome is he? In many ways, Mr. Kadam was Kelsey's rock. He was always there to teach, help, listen, and most of all, support her with the hard choices she faced. He loved her like she truly was his family. Not to mention his devotion to the Tiger brothers. His character is solid, and grounded. He is unwavering and has true integrity. Mr. Kadam is every little girls dream for a grandfather. The brothers ... [insert dreamy smile here] :) Ren , oh Ren, how much I love thee! LOL Tall, dark, handsome, strong, genuine, dependable, determined, HANDSOME, ;) .... those eyes! Sigh* :) His character also has a high level of integrity that is swoon worthy. Ren is a man of his word! He surpasses all other Princes in whatever fairy tale happily ever afters you can muster up. You can not help but fall hopelessly in love with his character! Kishan ... whew! Kishan is also a man of his word, only he is more hands on. Kishan sees what he wants and he takes the front line. He is also as attractive as Ren, with the bad boy air tacked on. A guilty indulgence. Colleen did not go easy on her readers! :) There is only one thing I can honestly say about Lokesh. I hope he gets swallowed whole by a dragon in Voyage. The end. :) Overall .... This book is magical. It is full of action, adventure, true friendship, and a romance so breathtaking, you'll want to revisit it again and again. Have a box of tissues handy! Go get you a copy NOW! You won't regret a minute of it! :) FIVE STARS ...more Time for another one of my random life stories that distantly pertains to this review! This book reminds me of a particularly unhappy day in my childhood. I was either five or six, and we'd spent the entire day in Bush Gardens or Hershey Park or something. I forget what place. Anyway, I was a total roller coaster junkie back then and wanted to go on every roller coaster that the park security would allow me to. The scarier the better. So finally, I found a roller coaster that suited my tastes. I ke Time for another one of my random life stories that distantly pertains to this review! This book reminds me of a particularly unhappy day in my childhood. I was either five or six, and we'd spent the entire day in Bush Gardens or Hershey Park or something. I forget what place. Anyway, I was a total roller coaster junkie back then and wanted to go on every roller coaster that the park security would allow me to. The scarier the better. So finally, I found a roller coaster that suited my tastes. I keep thinking it was called The Big Bad Wolf, but when I looked up a picture, it doesn't look like what I see in my memory. It was black and red, and it was supposed to be super insanely fast. I love fast rides. So I nagged my dad until he agreed to go on it with me, and the admission person wasn't really paying attention. Either that or he was a sadist. The ride started and it was so freakin fast. The rails went in drops and sharp turns and had a perfect view of a forest so it felt like you would be thrown out if you didn't have on to your seat belt. I was grinning and cheering and laughing, not caring that I was being nearly sucked out of my seat by the laws of gravity. Then, in the last half second when we rolled back to the station, the carts didn't slow down. Instead, we zoomed forward impossibly fast and then BAM! The ride stopped all of the sudden, so unexpectedly that I had no time to brace my self. I nearly flew out of my seat, but I had a seat belt on. Instead, I whacked my face on the metal bar in front of me, so hard that my front teeth became a little loose and I could taste blood. Have you ever been hit in the face with a metal baseball bat? It kind of felt like that. So of course I started screaming bloody murder, and when I finally got myself together, it was like someone put sunglasses over my eyes. Everything seemed darker and more evil, like the whole world was tinted with hatred. I started to only notice the bad things, and though I tried to have fun, my injured jaw kept pestering me. For the rest of the night, I couldn't enjoy myself because every time I smiled my mouth hurt, and that can really piss off any five year old. This book was like that day. It was really, really awesome up to a point, but then one bad thing happens, and it begins to taint every joy with a terrible feeling of hate. It persistently came up, and every time I thought I was done with it, it would rear it's ugly head again. In this book, that particular bad thing starts on page 311. Kelsey decides that Ren only likes her because she's the only girl he can talk to. She doesn't even give him a chance to prove that he is loyal. She just randomly starts pushing him away, snapping at him whenever he tries to hold her hand or even talk to her. This happens in pretty much every YA Paranormal Romance book known to man. Anymore, finding a book where this doesn't happen is harder to find than Waldo and Carmen Sandiego combined. But reading it in this book was much more excruciating. I was so so excited, thinking, Hey! This is so original! I was wrong. Oh, and I was so jealous of Kelsey in the circus. I've always wanted to pet a tiger. I don't know why. Despite the fangs and the blood and the feralness, they're just so.... huggable. [image error] Or maybe I'm just weird. Which I am. But I'd liked this book so much and then... that happened. And the rest of the plotline followed the train crash. It was pitiful. Obviously, Houck needs some help with pages 311 to... well, the rest of the series. So I'm going to try my hand at fanfiction for the first time ever and rewrite this disaster of a scene. Being an actress at heart, this will be written in play format , since I'm a much better play writer than I am a literary one. TIGER'S CURSE (revisioned) Written by Circus Princess. Setting: In the underground jungle on the way to Kishkindha REN: [centerstage right] What? I'm so disgusting you can't even touch me? KELSEY: [centerstage left] Just don't talk to me, okay?! CIRCUS PRINCESS: [appears in a sudden burst of smoke] Woah. Hold up. What the hell is wrong with you? KELSEY: Who are you? Have you been sent by Durga to--- CIRCUS PRINCESS: You. Shut. Up. [turns to REN] Kelsey is being stupid. She's pining over you and won't admit for God knows what reason that she's freakin head over heels. Don't take her bitchiness personally. You're awesome. REN: Wait, huh? I thought--- CIRCUS PRINCESS: [turning to KELSEY] Dude, what the hell? Do you not see this ? [gesturing to REN] He is freakin BEAST, and you're concerned about---what? That he'll get cooties on your hand? Stop being such an asshole and kiss him, goddammit! You're gonna die in this hellhole anyway! Carpe diem , Kelsey! Don't give me that bullshit about you're heart gettting bwoken or your boyfwiend being too good for you. JUST MARRY HIM, DAMN IT! [throws up arms in exasperation] KELSEY: What? Huh? CIRCUS PRINCESS: You have no reasons to stay away from him! Seriously! Is it so freakin hard to realize he loves you, he's loyal, and you're being a bitch has no point? Give me ONE GOOD REASON why you shouldn't be with Ren! KELSEY: [stuttering and stammering] I .. he.. me...... He's going to love someone else! I'm not good enough for him. REN: [gives KELSEY a you've-got-to-be-kidding-me face] CIRCUS PRINCESS: Jesus, Kelsey! You are so damn STUPID sometimes! You were awesome until you started acting like a three year old. I can't believe I actually liked you ! You love him, he loves you. That'd be freakin perfect if you weren't such a martyr! KELSEY: [turning red] HOW DO YOU KNOW WHAT I'M THINKING?!! CIRCUS PRINCESS: I'd tell you but then I'd have to deal with your stupid existential questioning for the next 500 freakin pages! JUST SHUT UP! KELSEY: Pages? What? Like, book pag---? CIRCUS PRINCESS: [puts hand over KELSEY's mouth] REN: [growls at CIRCUS PRINCESS as a tiger] DEMOLITION LOVER: No. I don't want to hear that crap from you, Ren. You're too cool for this. Why do you put up with her? I mean seriously ! I'd never thought I'd say it, but Ren, you need to be more like [shudder] Patch Capriano! KELSEY: [muffled by hand] Who?? CIRCUS PRINCESS: [pointedly ignoring KELSEY] You need to push her against a car and ask her why she keeps avoiding you and not let her up until you get a straight answer! She is treating you like total shit and you're just accepting it! No! You have to go all Capriano on her and demand your goddamn answer!! KELSEY: Who's Patch Capri---? CIRCUS PRINCESS: FOR THE LOVE OF CHRIST, SHUT THE FUCK UP! [lets go of Kelsey and places right hand on Ren's shoulder] My heart aches for you. Don't let her screw this up, because I will be pissed off. Hell, I am pissed off. Knock some sense into her before I throw up. [pulls KELSEY by the arm to stand in front of REN] REN: [turns human and kisses KELSEY] Much more bearable, no? Now we can skip the next 500 hundred pages of angst :D In all honesty, though, it was enjoyable. You know, when she wasn't being a bitch. Soo. damn. huggable. ...more I\u2019m white. Being white means I have a certain level of privilege that people of colour are not afforded. I\u2019ve never had to experience racism, I\u2019ve never been slurred based on the colour of my skin and I don\u2019t have to live with the extreme social and economic gap that people of colour do in terms of employment, higher education, sexual assault, health issues, etc. Sometimes when I\u2019m looking at an issue, it can be very easy for me to look over the experiences of others. This isn\u2019t deliberate but i I\u2019m white. Being white means I have a certain level of privilege that people of colour are not afforded. I\u2019ve never had to experience racism, I\u2019ve never been slurred based on the colour of my skin and I don\u2019t have to live with the extreme social and economic gap that people of colour do in terms of employment, higher education, sexual assault, health issues, etc. Sometimes when I\u2019m looking at an issue, it can be very easy for me to look over the experiences of others. This isn\u2019t deliberate but it is a sign that my race has levelled the playing field in a way that just isn\u2019t open for people who aren\u2019t white. I make a conscious effort to see the bigger picture, take into account the experiences of others and to check my privilege at every possible turn. Frankly, every white person should do so. I say all this now because I think it\u2019s important for me to put this disclaimer before my piece, wherein I discuss what I saw as the gross ignorance and cultural appropriation present in the book \u201cTiger\u2019s Curse\u201d by Colleen Houck, a white American YA author. The novel, which takes place primarily in India, centres on a young white American woman called Kelsey who, through a series of laughable and increasingly convoluted events, finds herself looking after a cursed Indian prince who is stuck in the body of a tiger. She accompanies him back to his homeland in order to accomplish several tasks to break the curse, and through this process finds out that she is the chosen one of the Hindu goddess Durga. Before I can even tackle the cultural issues of this book, I have to discuss just how terrible it is on a basic storytelling level. The book, which was originally self-published on Amazon before being picked up by a publisher and becoming a NYT best-seller, is abysmal. There\u2019s no other word for it. The prose is childish and juvenile, often reading like an essay by a fourteen year old who has just learned how to speak English. Throughout the extremely padded story, the irritating narrator Kelsey displays the emotional and intellectual maturity of a tween, one who is far more concerned with describing every single meal she eats or piece of clothing she wears over the action packed tasks she is set to accomplish. We are subjected to list after list of every single thing Kelsey does, from her morning routine to her showering. Any potential for excitement in the more action packed scenes is quickly shot down because of the stilted prose. I don\u2019t ask for much realism in my books with cursed tiger princes but when I\u2019m rolling my eyes on page 4 (when Kelsey literally walks into a job centre and is given a job helping to look after a tiger in a travelling circus despite a total lack of qualifications), that\u2019s not good. Supporting characters make no impact beyond their broad offensive stereotypes (the Italian circus owner speaks like the pizza chef from \u201cThe Simpsons\u201d while most of the Indian characters speak in the broken English style reserved for racist jokes \u2013 shockingly, people in India can speak English, many of them very well. They\u2019re not uneducated simpletons who need a nice white lady to fix their problems). The romance is essentially insta-love but Kelsey is at least smart enough to acknowledge that an Indian price deprived of female contact for hundreds of years may just latch onto the first one he sees. Overall, I was actually embarrassed by the quality of the novel. There is basically no villain until the cheap cliff-hanger epilogue, and the story really could have benefited from some actual antagonism beyond \u201cBaww, Ren is so hot and I want to kiss him!\u201d I was dying for the opportunity to find a paper copy and take big red pen to it. I easily could have removed 20% of that padding and it wouldn\u2019t have made an ounce of difference to the story. Of course, the real issue with this novel is the portrayal of India and its culture, particularly its religious mythos. The moments where facts about India are shoehorned in feel like Houck just googled random Indian facts and copy-pasted them into the document. People recite stale facts as part of the dialogue and it sounds as though they\u2019re just reading from Wikipedia. I even googled several passages to make sure they weren\u2019t plagiarised from websites because I just couldn\u2019t be sure otherwise. Whenever Kelsey stays in a hotel in India, she stays in the lap of luxury, conveniently avoiding the poorer areas of the country and even the more middle-class areas. This is tourism for the spoiled White Kelsey. It\u2019s like colonialism never happened. Then again, these moments aren\u2019t anywhere near as offensive as when Houck just makes stuff up. For instance, a character mentions an Islamic belief that Allah sends tiger\u2019s down from heaven to protect his devotees. That\u2019s completely untrue. No such legend exists. While Islam is one of the main religions in India, its origins lie to the Middle East, and there aren\u2019t a whole lot of tigers there. My GoodReads friend Nessa covers this in more detail , including Houck\u2019s inability to keep the mythology of any country straight (kappas?!). This isn\u2019t Hindi culture, this is Disney\u2019s Hinduism for beginners, completely stripped of all the complexities and less then PG rated aspects. I really became angry when White Kelsey is declared the chosen one of the goddess Durga. The population of India is over 1.2 billion people, yet the chosen one of Durga is a white American girl. Even she questions whether this is right! This brief moment of clarity only serves to aggravate the sheer insulting nature of yet another appearance of the white saviour. Remember in \u201cIndiana Jones & the Temple of Doom\u201d how Indy, the very obviously white guy, was the one the poor helpless villagers said was sent by Shiva to save them? What about Kony 2012, a white saviour project so smug and misinformed that it went from online sensation to public joke in about a fortnight? Let\u2019s not forget every single movie set in an American inner-city high school where the nice white lady/man comes in to teach those black/Hispanic kids how to improve their lives, then she gets down with their urban dancing! And, of course, Bono. It is not the job of white people to swoop in on some moral mission and save the poor unfortunate non-white souls. It\u2019s depressing enough that we\u2019re still trying this shit in 2013, I don\u2019t want to have to see it deployed as a cheap exploitative plot device in order to make an irritating and poorly developed Mary Sue be made even more special. Two things came to mind while reading \u201cTiger\u2019s Curse\u201d. One was \u201cTemple of Doom\u201d, since the action scenes and general narrative felt very much like Indiana Jones fan-fiction, only without Short Round, and the other was Selema Gomez. Lately, Gomez has been on the receiving end of a lot of justified controversy for her repeated wearing of the bindi in her performances. Gomez seems to be wearing the bindi for no other reason than it looks \u201ccool\u201d.Iggy Azalea\u2019s latest music video \u201cBounce\u201d is set during an Indian wedding for no apparent reason, with Azalea in traditional dress. Gwen Stefani wore the bindi in the past, as have many other white pop-stars. They took something that wasn\u2019t their culture, stripped it of its cultural and historical context and made it into a fashion accessory. The Aerogram put it best here: \u201cThe political context in which cultural symbols exist is important. Cultural appropriation happens \u2014 and the unquestioned sense of entitlement that white Americans display towards the artifacts and rituals of people of color exists too. All \u201cappropriation\u201d is not merely an example of cultural sharing, an exchange between friends that takes place on a level playing field.\u201d \u201cTiger\u2019s Curse\u201d uses Indian culture for no apparent reason other than it\u2019s \u201ccool\u201d. The food is tasty, the clothes are colourful, the gods and goddesses are interesting and it\u2019s all there for white people to cherry pick for cheap artistic purposes. Houck at least doesn\u2019t white-wash this version of India, although the two love interests (yes, love triangle) are essentially blank slates who exist to push a plot forward and fawn over the extremely irritating White Kelsey. This should be their story and it\u2019s not. It\u2019s the story of the white girl. It\u2019s yet another tired narrative where the white people come in to save the day from those poor locals with their non-white skin and lack of privilege. Keep in mind just how few mainstream YA novels feature heroines of colour and then look at this book. Why is the supposedly relatable heroine white and why is she so special to an Indian goddess when she has absolutely no connection or understanding of said culture besides the plot telling us she\u2019s special? There are many reasons why you should avoid \u201cTiger\u2019s Curse\u201d, but if you need to pick one then avoid it because Hindi culture is not Houck\u2019s to fetishize. Originally published on The Book Lantern. Go give us some page views! http://www.thebooklantern.co.uk/2013/... ...more Edit: 9/27/2014 Retroactively reducing my ratings for these books because when I first read them I did not notice the racism/cultural appropriation. Okay, I just cannot be bothered to write a long review for this book. I can barely be bothered to write a review at all. The writing was terrible and the pacing painful from beginning to end, but the characters weren't a total waste (well, until Kelsey suddenly and inexplicably decided to be stupid and push Ren away. You know, I was sort of enjoying Edit: 9/27/2014 Retroactively reducing my ratings for these books because when I first read them I did not notice the racism/cultural appropriation. Okay, I just cannot be bothered to write a long review for this book. I can barely be bothered to write a review at all. The writing was terrible and the pacing painful from beginning to end, but the characters weren't a total waste (well, until Kelsey suddenly and inexplicably decided to be stupid and push Ren away. You know, I was sort of enjoying watching the slow build of her relationship with him and it was kind of sweet, and then - what the fuck, girl, is all I really have to say) even if they were generally cliched and pretty silly. The plot is pretty far from mind-blowing but it serves its purpose. That being said, the writing is really so abysmal that if it hadn't picked up a bit at the end, this would have been a one-star read for that reason alone. There were times, especially in the beginning, when I could barely get through half a page without hitting a sentence that made me cringe. Anyhow, at this point I really just don't give a fuck anymore. Other than its writing (and really, has this seen the eyes of a professional editor? Because if it has and it still came out this way, they should be ashamed and possibly fired for not doing jack shit) this book didn't really make me angry. It didn't make me happy. Reading it was... not suffering, but drudgery . I could not in good conscience recommend it to someone, except maybe on April Fool's Day and then only if I didn't like them. Two stars for apathy instead of anger. I cannot fucking believe that I'm still going to read the sequel, but it was a gift. ...more When I was nine years old, I wrote a story called \"The Two Trees,\" which in addition to being basically plagiarized from a number of sources (most notably The Ordinary Princess , but also a smidge here and there from Aladdin the film and The Farthest-Away Mountain ), was obviously written by a nine year old. Like, if you would have picked it up and read it completely out of context and then somebody asked you to list off three things that described it, the list would look something like this: 1. Pr When I was nine years old, I wrote a story called \"The Two Trees,\" which in addition to being basically plagiarized from a number of sources (most notably The Ordinary Princess , but also a smidge here and there from Aladdin the film and The Farthest-Away Mountain ), was obviously written by a nine year old. Like, if you would have picked it up and read it completely out of context and then somebody asked you to list off three things that described it, the list would look something like this: 1. Princesses are neat, 2. Good handwriting, 3. Obviously written by a nine year old. Unfortunately, Tiger's Curse reads like it could fit all three of those descriptors, too. Publishing is in a really sad state if someone who writes like I did at nine years of age can get published, when so many really talented authors receive rejection letter after rejection letter. If the industry was working the way it's supposed to, this book never would have made it to print. You guys know I mean business because this is a one star review, and I NEVER do that. Pretty much if a book is even halfway competently written and I enjoy myself while reading it, it gets four stars. It's really not that hard to get four stars from me, even three if I can appreciate what an author has done, but it's just not my thing. Two stars is usually reserved for things that I'm morally opposed to or repulsed by (i.e. the anti-feminist awfulness of New Moon ). But one star? One star means something went wrong on the chain of command. One star means this book never should have seen the light of day. Let me be clear here: I don't have anything against Ms. Houck as a person. I'm sure she deserves wonderful things. She's a very nice woman. I know this because I met her, and she signed my book. This is actually why I bought the thing in the first place. She happened to be at my Barnes & Noble doing a signing, and I just happened to win a free t-shirt* in a raffle, so I thought what the hey, let's get a signed copy, you'll probably love this, you big sap. I certainly didn't anticipate having the reaction that I did. Because let me tell you something: this book is worse than Twilight on just about every level**, and that is not an exaggeration. In terms of characterization, description, plot development, pacing, and my God, dialogue, Twilight looks like Shakespeare in comparison to Tiger's Curse . I mean, where to start with this book? I had such high mediocre hopes. The plot--eighteen year old American falls in love with an Indian prince who's cursed into the form of a tiger--sounded suitably ridiculous, and I appreciated that it was set in India, and that there were no vampires in it***. From there, it went downhill fast: The book has no overt structure, scenes do not flow one into the other with any kind of purpose, and there is no regard whatsoever for what I'm going to call \"depth of time,\" for lack of a better term -- events in the novel just happen one after another, because the author needed them to, not because they fit organically in with the story. One minute something is happening, and the next, something else, with no connection in between. All of the characters come off as shallow and two-dimensional. We hear what they're thinking very literally, but we never feel it. (This is how I know my issue with this book is the writing, and not the story: good writers are supposed to make you forget you're reading.) Our main character Kelsey is emblematic of everything that is wrong with this book. Ms. Houck seems to think that telling us what color ribbon she ties in her braid every morning is riveting, character-telling stuff. But it just comes off as immature. What eighteen year old ties colored ribbons on the end of a braid? More importantly, what narrative would ever think that was important? But the biggest problem with Kelsey is that she comes off as incredibly stupid, when she's not supposed to. She travels to India with a man she's just met, she gets incredibly close to a dangerous wild animal with almost no narrative justification, and her decision making skills when it comes to prince-in-disguise Ren are non-existent****. I think it's important to note that I'm 100% positive that Ms. Houck did not mean for her characters or her story to come off this way. Unlike Stephenie Meyer--who Ms. Houck not coincidentally lists as an influence--Ms. Houck has no agenda to push, and her characters are attempting to stand for something important. I can tell that she wants Kelsey to be viewed as a strong, independent young woman. She just has no conception of how to WRITE her that way. Or write at all, really. Reading Tiger's Curse , I was actually BORED, and there was some crazy shit going down. It was like reading a bad fanfic. Description, inner monologue, dialogue, all of it: flat. Immature. Just plain bad writing. I don't know of any other way to convey this without sounding like an asshole. So how did this book get published in the first place? Ms. Houck self-published it as an e-book on Amazon, and enough brain-dead pre-teens downloaded it to draw the attention of movie studios, at which point Barnes & Noble's new YA imprint, Splinter, bought the rights to what they obviously perceived as their chance at the next Twilight , the next Hunger Games . And to that I say, good luck to you, but you know what might actually be a good idea? Publishing someone who can actually write. Also, stop trying to find the next \"_____\". FIND SOMETHING ORIGINAL AND GOOD AND PUBLISH THAT INSTEAD. There is no next Hunger Games . Publishers aren't even going to see that next thing coming, and when it does, they're going to copy the hell out of it, too, because it's easier, less risky financially, than taking a chance on something that might actually be good. At least Tiger's Curse , as poorly written as it was, was attempting to be original (as original as the teen supernatural romance genre can be, anyway). There's a lot of good information about Indian culture in here; Ms. Houck clearly did her homework. However, her characters spout it off at the most awful moments. It's never organic -- hello, Expositionville, Expositiontown, located in Exposition-nation. And that's really the biggest problem the book has. It's all concept, but no follow through. Don't even bother trying to read this for kicks, like I did with Twilight . It's not that kind of bad. Don't believe me? Pick up the book at random and turn to a page, any page at all. Chances are, you'll see what I mean.***** - - - *So I won this t-shirt, and I was like YES. FREE T-SHIRT. And when I went to claim my prize, Ms. Houck asked me which t-shirt I would like: the one with one tiger, or the one with two, and OBVIOUSLY I picked the one with TWO TIGERS, because why would you have a shirt with just one tiger on it, when you could have a t-shirt with TWO TIGERS instead? No brainer. **No fictional character will ever do as much harm to the cognitive development and cultural landscape of teenage girls as Bella Swann has in the past five years. If this book had been well-written, Kelsey would probably whip Bella's ass five times in a row. As is, she's nothing more than an empty, shallowly disguised author stand-in. ***Unless you count kappas. ****Let's play a game called PREDICT WHAT HAPPENS IN THE NEXT FOUR BOOKS: 1) Each book will involve finding one item to break the curse, 2) Kelsey will become confused and fall \"in love\" with Ren's brother, Kishan, and Ms. Houck will spend multiple books with her puzzling her way out of this \"dilemma,\" 3) Ren will become either insanely jealous and fight with his brother, or nobly fall on his sword to give his lady love what she wants, or both, 4) Somebody will be coincidentally related to somebody else, 5) Kelsey will coincidentally be the reincarnation of somebody we've heard about, or at least be related to them, 6) Kelsey will save the day, 7) Ren and Kelsey will get together and live happily ever after. See? You don't even need to read the rest of the books. Ten bucks says I'm right on this. *****I feel bad about this review, but I really needed to say it. I'm incredibly frustrated that some editor didn't sit down with Ms. Houck and try to help her salvage something out of this, because I really think it could have been a great story in the right hands. ...more I TRIED, GUYS. I TRIED. BUT I JUST CANNOT FINISH THIS... THIS THING. Just look at my status updates to see why I abhor... ABHOR... this book. Exhibit A: Exhibit B: Exhibit C: Exhibit D: Exhibit E: I am DONE! . I wouldn't wish this book even upon my worst enemy. This review is also available on my blog, Qwerty I had a high hope. A very high hope. As high as Charlie Sheen on crack. Yup, you got the idea. I like how the overall concept based on an Indian myth. Hmpphh...I just like stories from India in general. I can watch Hindi movies without subtitles. I kid you not. I like cats. Tiger, leopard, cheetah, puma, they are ALL cats to me. I'll risk my life just to pat their heads. Unfortunately, I had risk my sanity because this book has cats tigers. It wasn't pl This review is also available on my blog, Qwerty I had a high hope. A very high hope. As high as Charlie Sheen on crack. Yup, you got the idea. I like how the overall concept based on an Indian myth. Hmpphh...I just like stories from India in general. I can watch Hindi movies without subtitles. I kid you not. I like cats. Tiger, leopard, cheetah, puma, they are ALL cats to me. I'll risk my life just to pat their heads. Unfortunately, I had risk my sanity because this book has cats tigers. It wasn't plain bad. Fallen was plain bad (Hmm...I never get tired of making fun of this book). In fact, I should give the author credits for doing an extensive homework on the background of the all the legends and myths and the elaborated descriptions on each settings. One thing for sure. This book has a plot. Well, I would say that the editor did a terrible job because the first three chapters and the last two chapters were just a waste of papers. Seriously. Who wants to read this? \"There were mounted pumps full of shampoo, conditioner, and soap\" Here we got two well-characterized male leads, Dhiren and Kishan and we, the readers had to read the story based on the most annoying female lead I ever came across in my whole reading life! If you think Lucinda Price was annoying, I think this Kelsey was gazillion-fold more annoying. Like Luce was annoying because she was dumb as soup but Kelsey was just plain annoying, you wouldn't even feel guilty feeding her to one of those bloodsucking monkeys, Kappa. Here, lemme tell you why: 1. She is useless. She can wield the gada easily (because somehow the gada becomes lightweight in her hands) but not even once, she used that gada to destroy any upcoming obstacles. Like, Ren had to do all the dirty job by himself. 2. She could not even pack for herself. It was Mr Kadam who had to pack her foods, clothes and EVEN shampoo and conditioner. If she is real, I'd lost faith in humanity. 3. She is whiny, pessimistic and ermm..ANNOYING. Ren: Are you ready? Kelsey: No! Give me a minute to mentally write a last will and testament. Ren: It'll be fine. Kelsey: Sure it will. I want to make sure I can record every minute of this experience in my journal. Of course, that's probably a moot point because I'm assuming that I'm going to die in the jump anyway. Ren, you should just push her off the cliff. Oh wait, not before you deliver her a good bitchslap first. Oh dear Ren, why did you have to comb Kelsey's hair and massage her back. You are not her butler or her servant, you are a freaking prince. Pardon me but I didn't find the combing and massaging as romantic. *sigh* Why didn't I just give up on Young Adult genre already! I'm sick of all this cheap romance. Mooooooving on. 4. Kelsey is a disgrace to the female population as a whole. I'm aware that women can be difficult and complicated. They tell you that they're fine but they're not. They tell you that they're okay but they are jealous. Why didn't I use we instead of they anyway? Whatever. The thing is, Ren is treating her well, too well even. At some point in Kishkindha, Kelsey suddenly thought she was no good for Ren, Ren would find other girls once he is free from the curse yada yada. Seriously, Ren didn't do anything wrong and she suddenly broke down and ignored him! 5. Ren: Faster, Kelsey. Run faster! Kelsey: I can't go any any faster, Ren! 6. Kelsey's dying thought 'That's okay. Looking at his gorgeous face one last time is enough for me. I'll die a happy woman. Me: Die, bi*ch die! (few lines later) 7. Ren pulled Kelsey's closer. Kelsey's thought: I had almost died after all. I deserved some kind of reward for surviving, didn't I. 8. Kelsey's thought: My poor, knobby, blistered, sore feet. Oh well, maybe Mr Kadam will spring for a pedicure later. My job here is done. *Walks away* ...more WARNING: This book has the ability to make you succumb to constant daydreams and irregular bouts of hopeless romanticism while reading. So word of advice? grab that pillow and head for your room, cause someone might think you've lost it when they see you squealing around like an idiot. haha! oh my....is it so wrong to think that Alagan Dhiren would probably look like this? or maybe this? While I, on the other hand is looking like this... Initial reaction. then... lol! Im swept all over!! :) okey, WARNING: This book has the ability to make you succumb to constant daydreams and irregular bouts of hopeless romanticism while reading. So word of advice? grab that pillow and head for your room, cause someone might think you've lost it when they see you squealing around like an idiot. haha! oh my....is it so wrong to think that Alagan Dhiren would probably look like this? or maybe this? While I, on the other hand is looking like this... Initial reaction. then... lol! Im swept all over!! :) okey, enough with my drooling- I mean ranting. So where do I even begin? Right. The whole story unfolds when Kelsey , the seventeen eighteen year old heroine of this story decides to take a two-week part-time job on a circus. Not knowing that this is the start of a major change in her life when she meets the mysterious white Tiger (Dhiren) owned by the circus troupe. Heck, turns out the Tiger is actually a prince from thousands of years ago doomed to take the tiger's form and Kelsey is said to be the one to help the prince break the curse. Together they fly to India in order to find a way to break the curse. Along their numerous perilous ventures, Kelsey finds something more than she could possibly handle: matters of the heart?. It could have been easy for her not to fall if only Ren wasnt so PERFECT? Sigh and Im dying to read the next book woohoo!! :) *runs off with book 2* ...more THIS BOOK IS SO BAD IT ACTUALLY MADE ME HATE TIGERS. I wanted to read this book because a) fantasy, b) tigers!! and c) the COVER IS DOWNRIGHT GORGEOUS. #ShallowBookworm Several people warned me that it wasn't terrific buuuuut....I read it anyway. I'm not SORRY I read it. But it really was a pudding of cliches and annoyances and DISTURBING ROMANCE and slowness. Consider me wailing . It's so gorgeous. Omg. That cover. I am forever devastated. STUFF THAT ANNOYED ME AN EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT: \u2022 The narrator, Kelsey, is as interesting as a burnt potato. She I wanted to read this book because a) fantasy, b) tigers!! and c) the COVER IS DOWNRIGHT GORGEOUS. #ShallowBookworm Several people warned me that it wasn't terrific buuuuut....I read it anyway. I'm not SORRY I read it. But it really was a pudding of cliches and annoyances and DISTURBING ROMANCE and slowness. Consider me wailing . It's so gorgeous. Omg. That cover. I am forever devastated. STUFF THAT ANNOYED ME AN EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT: \u2022 The narrator, Kelsey, is as interesting as a burnt potato. She has noooooo personality except \"kindness\" and \"compassion\" and excuse you but no. Boring. She's also a special snowflake, doesn't believe she's pretty, blah blah etc etc. \u2022 Kelsey is OBSESSED with looks. The amount of time she spends describing her Golden Supermodel Boyfriend is ughhhhh . Please stahp. Get a hobby, maybe, and stop obsessing over LOOKS. She literally spends HUNDREDS of pages underlining how no one will ever want her because she's not beautiful and the ENTIRE reason she has relationship problems is because the boy says \"I love you!\" and she says \"but I'm not pretty so you're a liar and no you don't go away I hate you\" and then spends the rest of the time crying because she truly does love him. SHE'S JUST PATHETIC. GAH. \u2022 And I'm well aware that I picked up this book based on cover love and now I'm criticising the character's for being obsessed with looks...but. but but it's different . I'M GONNA PRETEND IT'S DIFFERENT ANYWAY. (But seriously now, I also wanted an Indian-based fantasy.) \u2022 The shape-shifting tiger-boy is \"perfect\". No joke. That's his entire personality. He can also hike in the jungle for days and come out smelling like a butterfly. I desperately wanted him to have some fault. Some weakness. Some...imperfection. But Ren smelled amazing -- like waterfalls, a warm summer day, and sandalwood trees all wrapped up in a sizzling hot guy.How could a girl defend herself from a perfect onslaught delivered by a perfect person? Get a life maybe. Get help of some sort. \u2022 Nobody in their right mind would pick an inexperienced teenager who's worked in a circus for 2 weeks to travel to India as a tiger's \"Carer\". NOBODY. And of course, Kelsey turned into a special snowflake needed to break the curse and all that buuuuut, what about her parents?! (Foster parents, that is, 'cause we needed \"parents\" that wouldn't care.) They were totally like \"oh yeah you're going to India for a few weeks? Bye bye sweetie, have a good time.\" SHE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT LOOKING AFTER TIGERS. Except for how to read poetry to them. \u2022 Indian Tiger Prince was 300+ years old. Um, no. \u2022 Also the romance went from cute to SICKENING really really quickly. Like to the point where I was so so disturbed. Kelsey gets her knickers in a twist over \"I'm not beautifully enough he doesn't really love me\" so she goes all stand-offish to Ren. BUT HE DOESN'T TAKE NO. He starts to get really aggressive about \"winning her back\". To the point where he's making threats and sexual innuendos when she's sending this clear \"NO\" vibe. Of course \"underneath the pretences she really does love him\"...but that doesn't make it okay. When a girl says NO, that is the end of it. There was a whole scene where he wanted her to kiss him, she said no, he asked her again, she pecked him on the cheek...that wasn't good enough, so he basically made her kiss him . I am so disgusted and horrified that that's considered an attractive romance. Because IT WAS. Kelsey said 9482092 times how Ren was a \"gentleman\". HE WAS NOT A GENTLEMAN. HE WAS A 300 YEAR OLD CREEP. \"Stop looking at me like that.\" \"Like what?\" \"Like you're hunting me. I'm not an antelope.\" He laughed. \"Ah, but the chase would be exquisite, and you would be a most succulent catch.\" This is at the dinner when she is furious at him and keeps telling him to back off and he makes comments like THIS. You know how I feel about this??? \u2022 Also the detail. Um, I miiiiight be weird, but I DON'T want to read every single action Kelsey ever does. Like we get a complete description of if she gets dressed, if she puts on her left shoe first, if today she feels like a radish, if she scrubs her toes in the shower -- TOO MUCH INFORMATION. It's needless AND annoying. Omg, stahp. But despite ALL these things that I monstrously loathed...I did REALLY like that it was Indian!! And I really loved all the food. Omg, yum, so much delicious food descriptions. And shape-shifting tigers are awesome . I would read more of those in a heartbeat. But not more in this series. Ahhah ha ha ha. No. Very definite no there. And the cover is beautiful and wintery and I liked the fact that this is different from a lot of paranormal fantasies. Although I DID think it was going to be epic fantasy. Boo. So I want an epic fantasy with shape-shifting tigers. HEAR THAT, SOMEONE? GO WRITE IT FOR ME. Okay, I'm done here. Goodbye. I need to go sing Mary Poppin's Sister Suffragette song to clear my mind. ...more Well, I had trouble deciding between 2 and 3 stars on this one. I feel like 2 stars seems harsh, but 3 is too many. It would probably be like a 2.5, but I'm rounding it down because ... I'm a mean person, I guess. This book did have some redeeming qualities, but over all it was just kinda \"meh\" for me. When I started reading this, I thought it was pretty good. It was a unique and interesting premise, with an unusual setting. And Kelsey seemed like a decent protagonist at first. But, then the plo Well, I had trouble deciding between 2 and 3 stars on this one. I feel like 2 stars seems harsh, but 3 is too many. It would probably be like a 2.5, but I'm rounding it down because ... I'm a mean person, I guess. This book did have some redeeming qualities, but over all it was just kinda \"meh\" for me. When I started reading this, I thought it was pretty good. It was a unique and interesting premise, with an unusual setting. And Kelsey seemed like a decent protagonist at first. But, then the plot started to get a bit ridiculous and too focused on romance, and the writing started to bug me, and Kelsey became annoying, and ... about halfway through, I was starting to consider giving up. And I hardly give up on books. But, ultimately, I just didn't find this book all that interesting. It wasn't terrible, but it wasn't fantastic either. So, here's the story in a nutshell: Once upon a time, there was a girl named Kelsey. One summer, she gets a job feeding animals at a circus because she's quirky like that. The circus has a white tiger named Ren, whom she thinks is totally awesome. She starts hanging out near Ren's cage and reading him poetry and stuff. Then this old guy named Mr. Kadam notices she likes the tiger, and he's like, \"HEY, I JUST MET YOU. AND THIS IS CRAZY. BUT YOU LIKE THAT TIGER. SO RANDOMLY TAKE HIM TO INDIA WITH ME, MAYBE.\" And even though she doesn't know this guy at all really, she decides to trust him because he's ... \"grandfatherly.\" (Like, that's actually the reason she gives.) And her guardian-parents are like, \"Haha sure thing! Go off to a foreign country with this strange man!\" So she does. Once she gets to India, Mr. Kadam ditches her and Ren with a random truck driver, who takes them to a restaurant. Kelsey goes in to eat food. When she comes out, she finds that the truck driver has vanished ... and that Ren has been let out of his cage and is now just sitting there next to the road. He then leads her into the jungle ... where he suddenly turns into a PERSON! And not just a person, but a TOTALLY HAWT GUY. And he's all like, \"So yeah, I had to lead you into this jungle. And I had to be a tiger when I did it. Because since you're a sensible person, you trust tigers and like to follow them into jungles. Because ... this was the obvious way I had to tell you that I was secretly a person.\" (Okay, I can't really explain the logic of this situation, obviously. I didn't really get it, either.) Well anyway, it turns out Ren is a prince\u2013\u2013and he and his brother were cursed to turn into tigers like three hundred years ago. Except they can just switch between being tigers and people when it's convenient, so it's not that big a deal. I mean, they can't stay in human form for too long, but still. So, there's all this stuff about a prophecy and whatnot. Ren and Kelsey have to travel through the jungle for some reason ... I honestly wasn't entirely sure what for. They're looking for some way to break the curse, but ... yeah. It was kind of confusing and unclear. Of course they also fall in insta-love and ... well, there you have it. Okay, so I think this book had two major redeeming qualities: The setting I thought the setting in India was a unique and refreshing aspect of the story. It gave the book a pretty solid atmosphere. It was obvious that Colleen Houck had done her research, and there were a lot of great details about the scenery, the food, the customs, the mythology etc. So, I really appreciated the effort she put into that. Kishan Kishan, Ren's brother, was a good character\u2013\u2013in my humble opinion, anyway. To be honest, I found him much more compelling than Ren. He seemed like a charming and funny guy, first of all. Secondly, I liked that he actually didn't want to break the curse and gave a logical explanation as to why. After centuries of dealing with it, he was used to it\u2013\u2013and had actually embraced his tiger-form and enjoyed being in it. And, as I was saying before, I don't actually think the curse is all that bad. Sure, the brothers have to be tigers sometimes, but not all the time. Plus, they get to be immortal. And after having to go along with it for so long, I'd think it wouldn't be so bad to just accept it. So, I thought Kishan's perspective was interesting and gave the story a little bit more depth. Not to mention, he actually trusted Kelsey to take care of herself \u2013\u2013whereas Ren was annoyingly overprotective of Kelsey, thought she couldn't deal with anything unpleasant, and wanted to be watching her at all times, etc. But of course, Kelsey prefers the asshole brother ... because he's more physically attractive, I guess? So it goes. Unfortunately, neither of these qualities really boosted my liking of the story. Although I appreciated Houck's efforts in those aspects, they were drowned out by several major issues I had: Kelsey I didn't like her much. She seemed to think and act like a ten-year-old, and needed Ren to always save her and all that jazz. I think what annoyed me most about her was that Houck seemed to emphasize that Kelsey didn't want to rush things with Ren and that she could be an independent female and whatnot. But then Kelsey was always beating herself up about the fact that she didn't want to rush things. She would always be like, \"Gosh, I can't believe I haven't kissed Ren yet. He's so totally hawt and amazing and I'm such an idiot, OMG.\" So, it seemed to be sending a really mixed message. On one hand, it was like Houck was saying that relationships shouldn't be too rushed. On the other hand, she made it seem like such a bad thing that Kelsey didn't want to rush into a relationship with a totally hawt guy. And then of course, she'd always be whining about how she was so plain and boring, and how could Ren like her, and yada yada. Just ... meh. I've seen it all before, and I've never liked that type of protagonist. The romance Well, as I said, I didn't like how Houck sent such a mixed message about the pacing of the relationship. But ultimately, I thought it was pretty typical insta-love. As soon as Ren appeared as a person, Kelsey commented on how attractive he was\u2013\u2013and then never shut up about it for the rest of the book. Seriously, she never missed an opportunity to mention how gorgeous Ren is. They'd be like, running for their lives and she'd be like, \"And while we were running from certain doom, Ren turned his BEAUTIFUL FACE towards me ...\" By the one hundredth time she'd mentioned how beautiful his face was, I just felt like my head would explode. It's like ... okay, woman. I get it. You find him attractive. Please be quiet about it, now. And as I mentioned earlier, Ren was ultimately a controlling and overprotective bastard. I thought he seemed like a nice guy in the beginning, but then halfway through the book he suddenly seemed to develop a split personality. Sometimes he would be totally sweet to Kelsey, and then on the next page he'd be getting furious at her for no good reason. And he'd be all like, \"I can't believe you saw me eat an antelope! How dare you! I'm never letting you out of my sight again!\" Errrm. Over all, I just didn't see much justification for their relationship, and I didn't see what was supposedly so likable about Ren\u2013\u2013besides his occasional niceness and physical attractiveness. ... Hmm yeah. I got nothing. Irrelevancies In my opinion, too many things were just plain irrelevant to the story and should have been edited out. The first thing was the fact that Kelsey's parents are dead. She just kind of mentioned that they had died in a car accident at the beginning of the book, and a few other times, but over all it just didn't seem that important. It certainly could have been made significant if it had been essential to her character, but I didn't think it was. She still seemed kind of silly and immature, so I didn't see how the tragedy had really affected her. Then there were just some totally random things that happened. For example, there was a scene where Ren and Kelsey went swimming in some waterfall or something ... and then some rocks just fell out of nowhere onto Kelsey's head and knocked her out. Then he dragged her out of the water and she woke up, and ... well, that was pretty much it. It was never really brought up again. Kelsey complained about how her head hurt for a few pages\u2013\u2013but neither she nor Ren seemed particularly concerned that she had been severely concussed. So it was like ... uh, why did that happen at all? The writing Urgh, the writing. I just found it to be rather ... juvenile. First of all, the dialogue felt really forced and unnatural\u2013\u2013so much that I found it distracting. Pretty much every time Kelsey said something, I almost wanted to reach into the book and punch her in the face. But the most major problem is that Houck really, really needs to learn how to show and not tell. It felt like almost half the book was just stating things that were completely obvious, or blatantly telling the reader what things looked/felt like without using proper descriptions. Not to mention, these \"telling\" sentences were often followed by exclamation points ... which I hate with a passion. So, I got pretty sick of reading sentences that went, \"It was [adjective]!\" Just a few snippets to give you an idea of what I mean: \"He changed to a tiger, sunk his teeth into them, and ripped them apart. It was gruesome!\" \"They slowly raised their heads out even farther and followed our progress with inky black eyes. I couldn't stop staring at them. They were horrible!\" \"Then I saw a warrior angel rise up above me. He was magnificent!\" \"I raised my eyes and gasped softly. He was breathtaking! So handsome, I wanted to cry. ... He's like ... like James Bond, Antonio Banderas, and Brad Pitt all rolled into one. \" (Side note: Uh, that doesn't sound very attractive to me at all.) \"I sighed. Even infuriated he was beautiful. \" Oy vey ... I just hope Colleen Houck can learn to trust her readers and not seem to assume they're idiots. Not only that, but it's just weak writing. She could have described what some of these things looked like\u2013\u2013like what this random \"warrior angel\" looked like, what it looked like to see Ren tearing apart monkeys with his teeth (which is what the \"gruesome\" part was referring to), etc. Just telling the reader with a single adjective doesn't create a very strong image. In fact, it doesn't create an image at all. So hopefully, in the next books, she improved on this. Over all, I think Houck has good ideas with a lot of potential. But ultimately, I didn't find the writing in this book to be strong enough ... and what with the uninteresting heroine and barely-developed romance, it unfortunately became a bit too similar to a lot of other paranormal romances I've read. I don't know if I'll read the other books in the series, but I think it's doubtful. I've heard that the books get better, and I could see how the story could become more interesting ... but, at this point I don't feel particularly intrigued. Guess we'll just have to wait and see. ;) ...more NO! No no no no! Kelsey, go back, go back! Oh my gosh, this book, this breathtaking, thrilling, romantic, utterly perfect book. It swept me away in blissful awe. The India setting, the mythical lure, the enchanting curse, the charmed aura of India\u2019s 300 year old prince. I was completely captivated by the story, the characters, the setting, just, everything! And the romance, oh so swoon. So completely gush worthy and butterfly inducing and breathtaking. This book is so original and creative. A 300 NO! No no no no! Kelsey, go back, go back! Oh my gosh, this book, this breathtaking, thrilling, romantic, utterly perfect book. It swept me away in blissful awe. The India setting, the mythical lure, the enchanting curse, the charmed aura of India\u2019s 300 year old prince. I was completely captivated by the story, the characters, the setting, just, everything! And the romance, oh so swoon. So completely gush worthy and butterfly inducing and breathtaking. This book is so original and creative. A 300 year old curse turning bitter brothers into tigers, and one girl, one strong, determined girl who is the only one who can break the curse, and free these two Indian princes back to their steady human form. But Kelsey didn\u2019t expect to fall in love, to fall completely in love with her white tiger, the oh so dashing prince, who\u2019s love for her is unbreakable. Ren, oh Ren. There is no one more swoon worthy, and so amazingly perfect. They share a connection, they know they love each other, but it\u2019s not solid, hence the nerve wrecking, speechless ending. Gahh! Why must authors do this to us? My nerves are all on edge. I turned the last page, silently screaming in frustrated anxiousness. Stupid Kelsey, stupid stupid Kelsey. He loves you! You know it! You love him, you belong together! Go back! I can almost understand her feelings of inadequacies. But if a breathtakingly perfect man loves you, wants you, wants to kiss you and be with you, then there must be something wondrous about you that speaks to him, leaving him in breathless wonder. Perhaps there\u2019s more to you than you think, something that others can see, that you can\u2019t, or refuse to see because his love for you just seems too good to be true, and you make yourself believe that you\u2019re not deserving of it, that he could have any gorgeous woman he wanted, and yet he\u2019s chosen you, and you can\u2019t understand why. But then I realize that sometimes people need to take a step back to know what they truly desire and need. When it\u2019s right in front of you, begging you to acquiesce, loving you utterly, you become lost in the fantastical lure and beauty of it, and you can\u2019t see anything else. And then one tiny doubt is seeded in your heart because of the surreal perfectness of it, and you wonder if this is real. If it\u2019s just a fabrication of your mind, deluding yourself into thinking that he could truly want you because he deeply loves you. Sometimes, a breather is what you need, to think back of what was, to try new things, make mistakes, and become a better, stronger, more confident person who knows what you want, and when presented with that love again, with the one person you love and thought leaving was better for both of you, you will be able to gauge your true feelings for him, and his true feelings for you. If your love is still there, it will be stronger and deeper, more passionate and beautiful than you thought possible. And there will be no more doubts, just love. Well, I didn\u2019t expect to go so deep, but this story, the ending, Kelsey\u2019s choice, it just affected me, and I so desperately wanted her to stay with him, to let him love her. After finishing this book, I am just so anxious to find out what happens. What Kelsey and Ren will do, how they\u2019ll grow, how this change could affect them, and I hope bring them closer together. Tiger\u2019s Curse was breathless and beautiful. I was captivated and thrilled through the whole story. I am so glad I read this, and I cannot wait to read the next two books. Thank you Colleen for such a perfect, romantic, amazing story. Edit 6/2/11 It's going to be made into a movie! http://www.ineffablepictures.com/ That just made me so incredibly excited! If done right, it will make an incredible movie, with some fine men in it ;) *swoon* ...more I'm so mad at this book I'm writing this review before I finish listening to the last hour, which has been torture to listen to. I started out loving this book which is the only reason it does not have 1 star. I loved the strong, brave, kind main character Kelsey, who got stuff done without whining about it. I loved the Indian mythology and the curse-breaking premise. I was willing to look past the somewhat sappy and cheesy romantic dialogue because unlike certain other books *coughtwilightcough* I'm so mad at this book I'm writing this review before I finish listening to the last hour, which has been torture to listen to. I started out loving this book which is the only reason it does not have 1 star. I loved the strong, brave, kind main character Kelsey, who got stuff done without whining about it. I loved the Indian mythology and the curse-breaking premise. I was willing to look past the somewhat sappy and cheesy romantic dialogue because unlike certain other books *coughtwilightcough* this book had an actual PLOT and it wasn't ENTIRELY fluffy bullcrap. And then halfway through the book, Kelsey starts to shift between nasty bitchface and disgusting lovesick puppy. FOR NO REASON. NO REASON AT ALL. She decides on her own that there is no way Ren will ever stay with her and decides to nip her \"love-seed\" in the bud. Sure, the plot part is still good, but now this extra crap is making the plot hard to get through. She actually says that \"it's not fair\" how hard it is to reject him after talking about how stupid a girl would have to be to do so. Oh boo hoo, it's not fair that a freaking hot Indian prince says he would rather die than live without you but you're too much of a pussy to stay with him. After at least a week of her being a frigid bitch to Ren in between kissing him passionately when he coaxes her into doing so, she has the audacity to say that she'll just have to tell him \"the truth\" because she's the kind of person who faces things head on and gets past them. Because yeah, going weeks without telling Ren why you're being a bitch is really facing things head on. What happened to my strong female character from the beginning of the story? And might I add that she is flabbergasted when Ren says he knows she reciprocates his feelings. Is she a complete moron? She's been obvious about it since even before she started to push him away. Jesus. I just feel like the book is ruined for me. (view spoiler) [After she \"breaks up\" with Ren she goes and cries in the shower and I felt no sympathy for her whatsoever. She wasn't breaking up with him for his own safety or anything. She was breaking up with him because she's selfish and is too afraid to love somebody. Sorry, Kelsey. No compassion from me. (hide spoiler) ] I mean. Okay. Fine, it's awesome that she questions her feelings and how their relationship might work out, but she goes about it the wrong way entirely. I will likely not pick up the next book in this series. I don't want to see what travesty the author makes of this character I initially loved. I bet she ends up in some sort of weird tryst with Ren's brother or something. There's no reason for Ren's brother to be there at this point other than to screw with Kelsey. Ugh. Edit: Finally finished the book. Sometimes I hate it when I'm right. (view spoiler) [OH HAI Ren's older brother who is conveniently also enamored with Kelsey. Here to stir up trouble? Also, after hours of listening to Kelsey talk about how she can't bear for her heart to be broken after Ren realizes Kelsey is plain and homely and he will want to date beautiful supermodels, she finally comes up with a good reason she should leave him - because he's too dependent on her. But you know what, BULL, because that was HOURS of her being selfish and it is REALLY HARD for me to believe that she is doing this for him. (hide spoiler) ] Also also, how many times are these guys going to \"pick up her hand\" and \"play with her fingers\"? Bleh. ...more Prepare thyselves: this is going to be a long-winded review. When I think of my experience with Tiger\u2019s Curse , I think \u201ctraumatizing\u201d\u2014contending with many other words for the title, of course. Reading this novel ignites a vicious hatred and an anger within me\u2014the likes of which I have not felt since I mistakenly read Fifty Shades of Grey (I don\u2019t want to talk about it). Not only is this book written appallingly and not only should it have never even been CONSIDERED for publication, but it is fri Prepare thyselves: this is going to be a long-winded review. When I think of my experience with Tiger\u2019s Curse , I think \u201ctraumatizing\u201d\u2014contending with many other words for the title, of course. Reading this novel ignites a vicious hatred and an anger within me\u2014the likes of which I have not felt since I mistakenly read Fifty Shades of Grey (I don\u2019t want to talk about it). Not only is this book written appallingly and not only should it have never even been CONSIDERED for publication, but it is frightening that it has sold so many copies and been received so well when it proposes such harmful social stigma alongside its author\u2019s poor literacy. The most disappointing aspect of this novel would be that its initial idea was one that I felt really had potential and that immediately interested me; I wanted so badly to like this book for several reasons: fantasy writing meets contemporary writing, underrated Indian mythology and fantasy, incredible adventure, romance, et cetera. It actually physically drains me to put down in writing how unfulfilled each one of the above features was, in all actuality\u2014all due to probably the worst writing I\u2019ve ever read in my whole life. I mean, Colleen Houck makes authors like Stephanie Meyers and E.L. James look like F. Scott Fitzgerald incarnate. You\u2019re probably wondering why I\u2019m making so many Twilight references in this review so far and it\u2019s because\u2014you guessed it\u2014Ms. Houck was inspired by ~Eclipse~ and ~*~the whole Twilight series~*~ (or, more accurately, its phenomenon and fame). A part of my soul just withered up and died as I typed that, just so that you are aware. Let me just say, I was not aware of this fact when I started the book, but I was about five pages into the story and things were already going down a highly questionable route\u2014that\u2019s when I grew wary. It was because of my, shall we say, automatic disdain towards the writing that I decided to do some background research on Colleen Houck and find out more about who she was as an author. It was such a mistake to do that\u2014to even READ this book, but I digress\u2014because I immediately found a video of an interview she did in which she explained that she wanted to write the next Twilight \u2014amongst other things which I have been unable to expel from my memory, though not for lack of trying. It was just a downhill plunge from there. [I would like to take this time to beg any future authors: Please do not try and make the next Twilight . It\u2019s already bad enough as it is without other authors embellishing on its harmful themes and reinforcing its backwards characterization and relationship \u201cnorms.\u201d In fact, I would endeavor you to not try and make The Next ANYTHING; be original and save yourself the inevitable comparisons and dislike. Thank you.] I have to say, I enjoyed Tiger\u2019s Curse for approximately two seconds. I liked the prologue significantly more than I liked roughly 99% of the novel, and that\u2019s because it was decently written fantasy: past tense, third person voice; kingdoms usurped; mystical curses introduced; and so on and so forth. My first warning sign was when, in the fantasy verse, the narrator used the word \u201ctechnically\u201d when explaining a royal character\u2019s heritage. That, to me, is a word that a modern day teenager might use in lieu of more formal openings for specifications, as opposed to an ancient Indian prince\u2014even the third person narration of said prince. In that instant, I could think of many more acceptable ways to start the sentence that I\u2019m referring to; the fact that the finished and published book went with \u201ctechnically,\u201d sort of made me start narrowing my eyes. Little did I know: that was only the very tip of the iceberg. At that point, I had no idea how upset this book was going to make me. As I said earlier, I was really looking forward to this blend of fantasy-based writing and contemporary, because those are two of my most frequented genres; I really felt that there was a huge opportunity with this book to bridge the colossal gap between the two fields and to create something new and enjoyable. Obviously, I was wrong, because immediately I knew the contemporary voice\u2014the voice that is carried throughout the rest of the novel\u2014was riddled with flaws and errors coupled with a steaming side dish of \u201cNO.\u201d The contemporary voice actually took away from what little the fantasy-infused prologue had going for it. I promised myself I wouldn\u2019t become incoherent, so I\u2019ll just explain what I mean. First off, everything about this book\u2014the setting, the characters, the plot\u2014is written unimportantly. By that, I mean that the entire set-up for the plot and the description of the characters and their surroundings were written without consequence. There was nothing in this book that had SUBSTANCE\u2014that forced me to FEEL anything\u2014because everything was written so vapidly. Never have settings been so distracting to me\u2014only because they were written so badly; from Kelsey\u2019s home to her workplace to the supposed-to-be-rich-and-incredible INDIA, everything is just told to the audience in the most trivial ways possible. Everything\u2014and I mean everything\u2014came off as two-dimensional because almost everything was written as a cardboard cutout: mere backdrop to the plot. I couldn\u2019t conjure up vivid images of where Kelsey lived or what her family was like or even what her work environment at the circus was like because it was all so generic and what little description there had been was so tired and uninspired that it left me wanting. For instance, Kelsey might say that a house is \u201cbig\u201d and \u201croomy,\u201d but there\u2019s no substance to those words; she never shows the audience what or who is around her. The writing never instills any sense of depth and relatability to its audience; let\u2019s just say there\u2019s absolutely nothing compound or complex about anything in this verse. Then Houck has the nerve to try and throw in these background points of Kelsey\u2019s history to feebly attempt mimicry of characterization, but that really just leave the audience more detached than before. Examples of this would be the fact that 1) Kelsey\u2019s biological parents are dead or 2) the unrelated fact that she really digs Shakespeare\u2014to echo myself once more: amongst many other things. Parental death is supposed to give Kelsey \u201cdepth\u201d because it allegedly makes her more \u201cworldly\u201d and \u201cwounded,\u201d which is supposed to substitute for adequate character basis and exploration throughout the span of the novel. I also really get a kick out of authors who make their protagonists have a perpetual literary boner for Shakespeare, because it\u2019s supposed to tell us that they\u2019re \u201cwell-read\u201d and \u201csmart;\u201d they\u2019re \u201cprofound for their age\u201d and \u201chave great taste.\u201d Being a Shakespeare fangirl is supposed to pinpoint to the audience that Kelsey \u201cisn\u2019t like other girls,\u201d because reading Shakespeare will just turn an immature teenager into an established woman and because \u201cstupid\u201d girls would never read or like Shakespeare. Not. I am so SICK of reading about protagonists who do things like read Shakespeare and who think about things more important than make up and who \u201cdon\u2019t do normal girl things.\u201d I\u2019m still not sure why pointing out these things makes any one protagonist better than any other, because, personally, if I read about a girl who wears designers skirts, puts on make up, and gives me witty and decisive narration, then I\u2019m not thinking about \u201cwhat a girl\u201d she is and therefore what a \u201cfraud\u201d she is; I\u2019m thinking about what she has to offer as a narrator/protagonist. Therefore, if there\u2019s a protagonist like Kelsey who reads Shakespeare (and other novels), isn\u2019t concerned about her hair or overall appearance, and who constantly lets me down with her extremely lacking narration and who has nonexistent \u201cunique\u201d qualities to showcase\u2014guess what\u2014I\u2019m not thinking about how \u201craw\u201d and \u201creal\u201d and \u201crelatable\u201d she is; I\u2019m thinking about how much she sucks as fictional character and literary device. Anyway\u2014moving on. Besides all forms of description and characterization being much too clich\u00e9 or nonexistent, the other aspect of this novel that gave me severe bouts of secondhand embarrassment\u2014and that subsequently resulted in constant face-palming\u2014was the fact that everything in this book was too convenient . Let\u2019s start with the basics: Kelsey is fresh out of high school and she\u2019s looking for a job. So what does she do? She goes to an employment agency where she is seen on the first day after standing in a relatively short line and talking to an interviewer for approximately two minutes. This results in an instantaneous job offer for\u2014what else\u2014the circus *cue fireworks and applauding crowds*. Introducing: Your Main Plot Point! At said circus, Kelsey\u2014whom, keep in mind, has never done anything in her life\u2014is insanely successful and she befriends the company Tiger by reading him plays. She then feels an immediate \u201cconnection\u201d between them and she knows the tiger would never hurt her (\u201cWhy is this?\u201d she wonders. The suspense was through the roof!!11!1) In no time, an Indian gentlemen presents himself and he asks her to accompany the white tiger to India, where it will become accustomed to an animal reserve there\u2014seeing as how she can \u201chandle\u201d the Tiger so well. In a few days\u2019 time, this man has conjured up travel plans, all the necessary paperwork, and has gotten together everything that Kelsey would need to go to India\u2014including gaining Kelsey\u2019s foster parents\u2019 trust and permission for the whole shebang. I could go on sarcastically narrating how easy everything is for Kelsey, but I think you get the point. In the wild, if Kelsey so much as has a headache, aspirin will magically be provided; if she\u2019s running out of food, someone will get her some more from Mr. Kadam, the aforementioned Indian gentlemen (no matter how far they are from civilization); if she is desperate need of a shower and a good night\u2019s sleep, she and her traveling companion will come upon a mansion. And with that, I think I\u2019ve said it all: whenever anything is needed in this book\u2014including explanation\u2014the author clumsily provides. It makes for an uninteresting read! I cannot convey how distracting and discouraging this kind of writing is. The whole time, it felt like Colleen Houck just wrote the entire book from beginning to end, without thinking ahead in the slightest, and that she just wrote in whatever solutions she needed to fill any plot holes, because none of it was eloquent and none of it was well-constructed. The writing was so transparent that it pretty much hurt my feelings and insulted me as a reader, but only after it had infuriated me. To save time, I will just make a list of some of the technical and structural problems this book beheld: \u2022 There was too much telling (as I touched on earlier)\u2014a key give away being that there were way too many words with the suffix \u201c-ly\u201d; e.g. excitedly, tenderly, angrily, nervously, timidly, hungrily, etc. \u2022 Instead of character development and realization through narration, a lot of the characters just listed each other\u2019s aspects to one another (\u201cKelsey, you\u2019re brave, determined, beautiful\u2026) \u2022 The little foreshadowing that this novel had was written as if a third grader had come up with the concept; it was too obvious and far too cheesy, therefore ineffective \u2022 In fact, there was no real plot momentum for a majority of the book (a lot of which could be attributed to the fact that there is no antagonist or force working against them until about the end) \u2022 The convenience. Enough said. \u2022 The immense plot holes despite paragraphs of tedious information \u2022 The fact that the parameters of Ren\u2019s curse were very poorly explained and extremely inconsistent throughout the book despite what we \u201cknow\u201d \u2022 The book being privy to inappropriately timed information dumps of historical background or character backstory\u2014most of the historical information sounding like something copied almost word for word from Wikipedia, or some other generic website \u2022 The whole novel was what I like to call \u201cgimmicky,\u201d meaning that most of what was done was probably done to sell books\u2014e.g. Ren\u2019s brother coming into the story to complete the \u201clove triangle\u201d (I don\u2019t want to talk about it), Kelsey not knowing \u201cwho she wanted to be with\u201d because both brothers are so \u201cdreamy\u201d (as if she doesn\u2019t have the option to not end up with either), and the multiple parts of the curse that need to be broken, which just screams, \u201cFour more books!\u201d Sorry, I don\u2019t think so, Houck. \u2022 The author clearly doesn\u2019t know a smidgen about continuity\u2014as evidenced by a scene where Kelsey called her drink a \u201csmoothie,\u201d a \u201cshake,\u201d and a \u201cmilkshake\u201d all in one page\u2014and she often struggles with the appropriate order of words \u2022 The dialogue made me constantly cringe because it was clich\u00e9, cheesy, out of date, and contained far too many pop culture references for a story that contains a 300 year old Tiger-Man who has not been properly socialized for that same amount of time; it was highly unreadable. \u2022 To give you an idea of how bad the writing was overall, I would like to disclose that Kelsey refers to her attraction to Ren as a \u201clove plant\u201d\u2014repeatedly. That\u2019s all I have to say about any of that. Let\u2019s get to the really scary part: the social context of this \u201cbook.\u201d An Open Letter to (the Majority of) YA Authors of Paranormal Romances: Please stop doing the things that you do. I promise you this: the world does not need another story about a meek, insecure girl with absolutely no conviction becoming romantically involved with a controlling, manipulative man/creature who could, at any moment, kill her. Your writing actually takes significant steps backwards for important movements such as the Feminist Movement or, if you prefer, the Gender Equality Movement. I don\u2019t want to read about a girl who is enamored and obsessed with a guy who is\u2014literally\u2014a killer. Furthermore, I do not care to read about how said girl is hopelessly attracted to aforementioned guy because he is a killer; stop glamorizing and sexualizing killing. You know that scene you\u2019ve written where your male vampire/werewolf/beast lead takes down a victim and eats them/sucks their blood/marvels in their death and the \u201cheroine\u201d of your verse is watching and consequently thinking about how much watching this guy draining the life out of its vessel turns her on? Forgo it. Just do yourself a favor now and scrap the whole thing, because if it\u2019s one thing we do not need, it\u2019s the desensitizing and normalizing of accepted/praised violence within or around a relationship. I will let you in on a little known secret: most girls don\u2019t want to date someone who can kill them, and, by ornamenting your story with a girl who wants to have sex with a potential murderer, you\u2019re contributing to a harmful culture. We don\u2019t need more girls in this world who are saying, \u201cI wish I had my own Edward Cullen/Christian Grey/Dihren,\u201d because what you\u2019re encouraging them to really say is, \u201cI want a guy who can hurt me\u2014because I find that extremely sexy.\u201d Please think on that scene and related scenes and choose to omit it/them from your novel. I promise you, the book will be better for it. Along the same lines, I strongly believe that you should write your female leads better, because, with the current state that they\u2019re in, they\u2019re written to be less of human beings\u2014especially when pitted against the male leads that you have written. No one\u2014I repeat: no one\u2014is going to thank you for constantly portraying a female as so vapid and unintelligent that, when a man raises his voice her, she can only think of how gorgeous he is and not about the terrible things he is saying to her; when he is literally in \u201ckill mode,\u201d she can only think of how dreamy he is and how she wishes he would \u201cdevour\u201d her for a change instead of getting away from him; that when he\u2019s being angry, overbearing, and deceitfully manipulative, she can only picture herself kissing him in that moment and can only realize how \u201cflooded with desire\u201d she is, as opposed to reprimanding him for mistreating her. If this sounds like anything your female lead has done or will do, then remember this: you are literally deterring from the development of the human race. You do NOT, under any circumstances, want to hear about how a female fan of your work feels like she \u201cis the protagonist;\u201d you do not want young people relating to the woman you have just written, because she is not worthy of praise or idolatry, though you may have written her that way. She is not the woman that other women should strive to be, because she is not a fully-fledged human being. Rather, I would submit to you that she is subservient and significantly lower caste than your male lead. Maybe you should rewrite the two of them and put them on a more equal level so that their unhealthy relationship is not misinterpreted as \u201camazing\u201d and \u201cromantic\u201d\u2014as I\u2019m sure you are aware that it will be. In addition, I must ask you to stop writing male leads who are, for all intents and purposes, complete assholes. We don\u2019t want to read about a man who becomes enraged when a female stops showing him physical affection. Similarly, we do not want to read about girls who truly believe that men have the inherent right to be brutally abusive\u2014whether physically or verbally\u2014when they don\u2019t secure the sexual attention of the women they are seeking; we don\u2019t need to read about how a girl feels this reaction is \u201cunavoidable.\u201d You should be aware that male privilege\u2014and a male character who embodies this notion\u2014is not, in all actuality, attractive. In fact, I would go so far as to say that he is disgusting, because anyone who assumes that a female is property to own or territory to stake out that they \u201chave a right to\u201d as a man is not worthy of even being in a novel in a first place. They should probably be in jail\u2014where they no doubt will end up. Furthermore, we can no longer silently condone female characters who will constantly put themselves down and talk badly about themselves in order to justify a male character\u2019s pigheadedness\u2014who is in constant need of a man to define her and to reinforce her character. We do not need male or female characters who solve deeply rooted emotional issues with physical interactions as opposed to words; we do not need girls who will admit to their audience that they wouldn\u2019t oppose becoming a \u201cslave\u201d to their love interest; there is no point in writing such strongly anti-woman text that it even portrays the SMELL of women as lesser than that of a man\u2019s; it is neither interesting nor exciting to read about a female lead who will constantly berate herself for being \u201ca bad human being\u201d while simultaneously glorifying and admiring the \u201cperfection\u201d of her male \u201ccounterpart.\u201d Let\u2019s think about how these men you have written in the past\u2014and that you will, no doubt, continue to write about in the future\u2014are even CONSIDERED \u201ccounterparts\u201d to the females. Is it because females make up about 5% of relatable humanity and the \u201cperfect\u201d males make up the rest of the percentage? Authors, if anything I have said reminds you of something that you have written or want to write in the future, I ask that you remember this: you (nor any other similar content creator) have no right to ever wonder about how society could have ever sunk so low into the cesspit that is rape culture, because you nurtured and supported it. In fact, maybe you should just never write. There\u2019s not really a high demand for what you can subliminally provide. Signed, All Concerned Readers ...more Oh goodness...reading this was pure torture!!! When I was recommended this book, I saw the cover and the title and thought, \"wow interesting\" then I read the synopsis: A 300-hundred year old Indian curse? A trip halfway around the world? Magic, Dark Forces, Risk, Ancient prophecy? And along with the fact that many of my friends gave this book a 4 or 5 star rating. I was exuberant to start this. When I started reading this book I didn't know I was setting myself up for MAJOR disappointment! First Oh goodness...reading this was pure torture!!! When I was recommended this book, I saw the cover and the title and thought, \"wow interesting\" then I read the synopsis: A 300-hundred year old Indian curse? A trip halfway around the world? Magic, Dark Forces, Risk, Ancient prophecy? And along with the fact that many of my friends gave this book a 4 or 5 star rating. I was exuberant to start this. When I started reading this book I didn't know I was setting myself up for MAJOR disappointment! First off the writing was horrible. It bears startling resemblance to something a 9-year old or 13-year old would write. The characterization is terrible, so is the info-dumping and the unnecessary length of the book. Kelsey Hayes our MC is a fucking-irritating-idiot! For her Summer vacation she finds a 2-weeks job at a circus. She has to help with tickets and cleaning and feeding animals..that includes our fucking ass-hat-prince tiger Dhiren or Ren. She reads Shakespere and poetry and talks about her life and blah-blah-blah...to a Tiger! Normally well-educated people also sometimes have difficulty understanding Shakespere and she is reading it to a tiger! Somehow Kelsey turns out to be the special one that Goddess Durga has chosen. Because hey, who wants Indian girls, who are aware about Indian culture and are attached to it and who also worship Goddess Durga? I mean surely not the Goddess. A completely idiot foreign girl with no connection to India whatsoever is so much better right? Then comes Ren, our 300-year old prince, burdened by an Indian curse which has turned him and his brother Kishan into tigers and only allows them 24 min a day of their human forms. Ren, was let's see: dumb, annoying, irritating, an ass and immature...and oh fucking clueless! For people who don't know much about India, let me tell you, India is a country with many religions: Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Parsi's, Jain's, Sikh's, etc. I am a Muslim, never been to a Mundir or temple and yet even I know after 17 years of living in India, how to worship a goddess. At least the basic. And yet after living for about 300-years, Ren doesn't know how you worship a goddess. His reason? He hasn't worshiped Durga before and that his parents gave him the freedom to choose his religion. I was like, \"Dude, where is your basic common sense?\" Not to mention the fact that Collen Houck seems clueless about Mumbai and it's people. First thing, I live in Mumbai and we do have traffic signals, vehicles don't just turn left or right whenever they want and people in India DO speak English! Not broken-English. Proper English! I think Mrs. Houck visited a village in India instead of the city. And also the Hindi in the book..oh God! Eg: He pressed his hand on top of mine. \" Aap ke liye. For your sake, anything.\" Ugh!!!! \"Aap ke liye\" is NOT proper Hindi!! The sentence is incomplete..it would have been more appropriate if it was something like: \"Aap ke liye, kuch bhi\" or \"Aap ke liye, hum kuch bhi karne ke liye tayyar hai\" Oh and there is also the fact that Ren calls Kelsey, Sundari, prema, iadala (even I don't know what that one means), Rajkumari and all these other names that I have yet to hear an Indian boy/man use for his girlfriend/wife. But Ren is an ancient prince, so I may let this slide. BUT what is not forgivable is Kelsey's bitchiness that suddenly comes in the second half of the book! She kisses Ren, quite a few times then thinks that he will probably break her heart and starts to avoid him and act all bitchy and whenever he tries to touch her, even if it is to help her, she moves away as if he has some disease. Then when Ren gets angry because of her behavior, she is like, \"Ren why are you angry? Is something bothering you?\" And I was like: WHAT THE HELL? If that isn't enough when they are having dinner? lunch? in a restaurant, the waitress starts flirting with Ren (because obviously that's what majority of waitresses do since they don't have any other work), Kelsey get's all jealous. By then I was drained. By the end I was like this: I am glad it's OVER! ...more Something that happens all the time in YA novels: WHHHY Kelsey! Even after (view spoiler) [ Ren tells you that he loves you! Awww! (hide spoiler) ] Other than that, I loved the book. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> Where the hell did my review of this book go?! Who's deleting the reviews? It's a good thing I remember what annoyed me in this book and will write this review yet again. I might have given it a 2 for actually interesting setting, but..no. Non-western country in urban fantasy YA lit. I'm there! Only it just does not live up to the potential. All the bits and pieces that are supposed to show us India and it's culture/mythology feel like lifted from Wikipedia. And I just don't get the hype. I gave Where the hell did my review of this book go?! Who's deleting the reviews? It's a good thing I remember what annoyed me in this book and will write this review yet again. I might have given it a 2 for actually interesting setting, but..no. Non-western country in urban fantasy YA lit. I'm there! Only it just does not live up to the potential. All the bits and pieces that are supposed to show us India and it's culture/mythology feel like lifted from Wikipedia. And I just don't get the hype. I gave up halfway. There's too much suspension of disbelief needed to read this book. the protagonist acts in ways that make me want to smack her. Go to a country you've never been to, with people you just met, as a tiger handler - which you've been doing for days without any training hat so ever, yeah, sure. How stupid are you? And then we meet the 'guide'. The foreign guy who speaks with broken English - lacks the basic grammar knowledge (but of course) but manages somehow to know words like 'hasten' or 'bestow'. Learning foreign languages, how does it work? As an ESL I am very annoyed reading such 'broken' English. There's a phrase like \"My father was of Indian descent, but my mother was Asian.\" - kind of like saying 'My father was French, but my mother was European.\" totally makes sense. But then the writing is not all that great. There's lots of infodumps so the pacing is very uneven. The action on their journey, though feels like taken straight from Tomb Rider/Indiana Jones or something- feels same old same old. I do not get the connection between this girl and the tiger. He's a tiger! as far as she knows- at the beginning. And he's old; what could he possibly find interesting about this girl (I don't find anything interesting in this girl)? or is it just supernatural something that's on his part? Still, that's very flimsy basis for any relationship and I'd require some more interesting interaction to be sold on it. It's lacking here. ...more I can't say this really captured my attention. In all honesty I couldn't wait for it to be finished. I realize this is a young adult book, but I feel like the writing is rather juvenile. There are a lot of descriptions that don't need to be in there. Some of it was beautiful and the Indian mythology was interesting, but there was dialogue and events that could have been scrapped. There were things mentioned that I thought must have only been in there because it was going to come up later, and th I can't say this really captured my attention. In all honesty I couldn't wait for it to be finished. I realize this is a young adult book, but I feel like the writing is rather juvenile. There are a lot of descriptions that don't need to be in there. Some of it was beautiful and the Indian mythology was interesting, but there was dialogue and events that could have been scrapped. There were things mentioned that I thought must have only been in there because it was going to come up later, and then never did. The writing was quite simplistic and sometimes irrelevant. The idea of the novel was interesting. I enjoyed the topic of the cursed brothers and the Indian legends which were intriguing but I think the construct of it could have been better. I also had a very hard time believing that this girl's foster family was going to let a kid who has just barely turned 18 go wandering off to a foreign land with someone they met once, on the premise of taking care of a tiger! She has absolutely no animal experience, never mind being the sole guardian of an exotic species that could easily kill her. The romance in the novel (which there really wasn't much of other than holding hands and the occasional kiss which she fretted about for pages afterward) was incredibly cheesy. I'm sure there are many people who will enjoy this type of writing, but it just wasn't for me, and I probably won't be reading the next in the series. ...more \u0397 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03af\u03b3\u03c1\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u039c\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03ad\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03be\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2. \u0392\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1\u03bf\u03af \u03b8\u03b5\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03c0\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03c1\u03af\u03c6\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b9\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b4\u03bf\u03c3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ae \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7. \u0391\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba \u0397 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03af\u03b3\u03c1\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u039c\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03ad\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b3\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03be\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2. \u0392\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1\u03bf\u03af \u03b8\u03b5\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03c0\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03b9\u03ce\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03c1\u03af\u03c6\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b9\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b4\u03bf\u03c3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ae \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c7\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c0\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b8\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7. \u0391\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c1\u03c5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03b5\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03cc \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bf\u03cd\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03cd\u03b8\u03b9 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03c1\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ae\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ae\u03c2 \u0399\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b8\u03ac\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03af\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03c0\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bc\u03c6\u03b9\u03c3\u03b2\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03b9\u03c1\u03b1\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2 !! \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7!! ...more What a huge disappointment! If I could give the book zero star, I would have. When I first read book's description on the backcover of Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse, the first book of an adventure fantasy series which roofed itself both in the modern day India and the Hindu mythological world of curses, demons and deities; I was intrigued and wanted nothing more than to read the book. Adventure! Hindu mythology! Goddess Durga! What can possibly go wrong with all these supposedly epic setting? Bu What a huge disappointment! If I could give the book zero star, I would have. When I first read book's description on the backcover of Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse, the first book of an adventure fantasy series which roofed itself both in the modern day India and the Hindu mythological world of curses, demons and deities; I was intrigued and wanted nothing more than to read the book. Adventure! Hindu mythology! Goddess Durga! What can possibly go wrong with all these supposedly epic setting? But oh boy, I'm so wrong! As it turned out, almost everything in Tiger's Curse leaves a bad taste in my mouth after I finished reading it. Our problems begins with the 'heroine', Kelsey Hayes. One of the main reasons I dislike her is that she sounds like she's an airhead teenager for most of the time, and I don't find her to be interesting or likable. Since most of the book is narrated by her first person viewpoint, I also found that her brain is filled with nothing but \"Oh he's so hot! Oh he's so good-looking! My heart is breathing fast! Is he really interested in me!? Oh no he can't really be interested because I'm not good enough!\" and some other similar nonsense. All these remind me so strongly of Bella freaking Swan from Twilight. Plus instead of showing her strength and strong will, for most of the time Kelsey plays her part as a useless damsel in distress who needs to be saved by the powerful male lead (namely Ren). God damn it! What really makes me angry is that according to the author, Kelsey is supposed to be Durga's Chosen One! And I don't believe for one second that Durga, a warrior Goddess, would favor a weakling such as her! The cursed brothers, Ren(Dhiren) and Kishan play their parts as the eye-candies who drool over the 'heroine'. Ren, the male lead of the story, is one of those Too Good To Be True characters. I don't have much to say about him because spending time to comment on such a paper-thinned character would be a wast of my time and effort. We are also being introduced to Kishan, Ren's younger brother who was always viewed as the second best, who also once fell tragically in love with his older brother's bride-to-be in the past. With such a backstory and the conflict he had with Ren, Kishan could have become an interesting, three dimensional character, but sadly the author did NOTHING about his potentiality throughout the entire book. He does nothing but being The Bad Boy who flirts with the main girl, what a waste! The first part of the book does little to build up Kelsey's character and her relationship with Ren--neither as a tiger nor a young man. Supposedly there's a bond between them but I JUST DON'T BELIEVE IT FOR A SECOND. The bond between them is supposed to be so special to the point that Kelsey becomes willing to entrust herself to a dangerous tiger and a mysterious Indian man (Mr. Kadam). But sadly there's no special event, no development to make the bonding actually happen. So how can I believe Kelsey, an untrained 18 years old girl, comes to know Ren-the-tiger FOR JUST TWO WEEKS, and then the next thing we know she's flying across half the glob to India with Ren, with the invitation from an Indian man whom she barely knows!? And her foster parents (who supposedly care about Kelsey) just said 'yes' to the whole thing? SERIOUSLY NOT REALISTIC. Then when I looked Tiger's Curse up on amazon.com I saw that the author mentioned she likes Twilight. OH HELL! No wonder the romance in her story is just as badly written and ridiculous. It also bothers me that it is never explained why Ren and his brother can live for 300-plus years after they were cursed. I mean, what's the point of cursing them when said curse actually gives them immortality and an ability to heal fast? Wouldn't it be too sweet a deal? Why would the baddio NOT curse them to live their lives as tigers and then grow old and die within a normal human's lifespan? Why would the baddio be so damn stupid? Talking about the baddio, he has been nowhere in sight throughout the whole book after he cursed the brothers. He only showed up again VERY BRIEFLY in the end and he does absolutely NOTHING to shape the plot. As a villain, this man's presence is too thin within the story and he's not threatening in any sense. Another thing which pisses me off to no end is that the Hindu Mythology in the book is so water-downed to the point of being silly and unrealistic. The mythology in the book is a very bleached, tamed, simplified one it makes me feel like I'm reading \"Hindu Myth For Kids\", every aspect of sexuality, brutality and bloodshed in the Hindu mythology and religion is being totally wiped out and ignored by the author, from start to end. Plus there is zero mention about karma, reincarnation and caste, why, just why? Even Goddess Durga, the most powerful goddess in the myth is being reduced to a very tamed Disney style of a fairy godmother. This entire bastardization of the Hindu myth and deities makes me sick to my stomach! Not to mention that the description on India doesn't look the slightest bit realistic to me. So Kelsey only hangs out with rich folks who live in perfect luxury and comfort when visiting India? There is not a single poor person or even a middle class one in sight? I know Ren is a prince, but still......Hello? Are you kidding me? The Final Words: As an adventure fantasy novel, the adventure parts of the story do nothing to engage me with neither the plot nor the characters. The danger which is faced by the main characters doesn't look real to me for even a second. On the romantic aspect, Tiger's Curse has nothing other than some Twilight level crap to offer. It's not a truly horrible book but I'm still very, very disappointed. ...more This was a paranormal/fantasy story about a prince cursed to be a tiger. Kelsey was an okay character although it was a little odd the way she talked to a tiger all the time, especially before she knew he could understand her. The storyline in this was about Kelsey travelling to India with a tiger whilst he was being rehomed, and then discovering that the tiger was in fact a 300-year-old prince who had been cursed. Kelsey then spent the rest of the book trying to break the curse, and falling in lo This was a paranormal/fantasy story about a prince cursed to be a tiger. Kelsey was an okay character although it was a little odd the way she talked to a tiger all the time, especially before she knew he could understand her. The storyline in this was about Kelsey travelling to India with a tiger whilst he was being rehomed, and then discovering that the tiger was in fact a 300-year-old prince who had been cursed. Kelsey then spent the rest of the book trying to break the curse, and falling in love with the prince while she was at it. This book felt really long though, and there seemed to be a lot of stuff in there which didn\u2019t need to be in there which made the book drag quite badly. The ending to this was okay, although the epilogue left us with a bit of a cliff-hanger. 6 out of 10 ...more There are very few books that leave me feeling the way this did! There's that saying that, 'you may forget what someone did or said, but you will never forget the WAY they made you FEEL'....Well, that's the way this series is for me. There may be some annoyances I have with it, such as the long explainations Mr. Kaddam always gives Kelsey about the myths, ect., and the Golden Fruit that can magically produce any kind of beverage or food for you, and the Divine Scarf that can make any type of clo There are very few books that leave me feeling the way this did! There's that saying that, 'you may forget what someone did or said, but you will never forget the WAY they made you FEEL'....Well, that's the way this series is for me. There may be some annoyances I have with it, such as the long explainations Mr. Kaddam always gives Kelsey about the myths, ect., and the Golden Fruit that can magically produce any kind of beverage or food for you, and the Divine Scarf that can make any type of cloth item. It just makes me roll my eyes and seems too convenient. But I can put those little annoyances aside for the WAY I FEEL when reading this series! It's a nice, sweet story of falling in love, quests and adventure. But there is a lot more to the story and the characters and the emotional conflicts they have going on. I love the emotional/conflict/angst aspect of this. I really like how Kelsey doesn't just fall head-over-heals for Ren. She questions her feelings and doubts the truth of his. She takes a step back and thinks about the consequences of starting a relationship with him. I think she has a lot more strength and sense than many other YA heroines. I really enjoy how Kelsey and Ren butt heads sometimes! I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS BOOK!!!!! The ending will have you wanting to read the sequel! ...more Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse took me on a life changing and spell binding trip to India for under $20. Never had I felt so emotionally attached to characters before. The Indian princes' sorrowful and painful yet mysterious and enchanting pasts really exites readers to learn more about these two compelling characters. And how can anyone forget the passionate romance brewing between our lovely Kelsey Hayes and her handsome prince Dhiren...and his younger brother Kishan? It seems Miss Kelsey is to Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse took me on a life changing and spell binding trip to India for under $20. Never had I felt so emotionally attached to characters before. The Indian princes' sorrowful and painful yet mysterious and enchanting pasts really exites readers to learn more about these two compelling characters. And how can anyone forget the passionate romance brewing between our lovely Kelsey Hayes and her handsome prince Dhiren...and his younger brother Kishan? It seems Miss Kelsey is torn between two decisions yet either she chooses, someone will be left with a broken heart. As we follow Kelsey in her breathtaking journey in a foreign world, we the readers get a taste of Indian culture. We learn so much about this country from delicious gourmet dishes to powerful Indian gods and godesses. Tiger's Curse perfectly combines the perfect mix of a true, passionate love story with an action-packed thriller. My word of advice would to get your hands on this book and let Tiger's Curse pull you in to a world of mystery, romance, action and imagination. Alexanne Merged review: Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse took me on a life changing and spell binding trip to India for under $20. Never had I felt so emotionally attached to characters before. The Indian princes' sorrowful and painful yet mysterious and enchanting pasts really exites readers to learn more about these two compelling characters. And how can anyone forget the passionate romance brewing between our lovely Kelsey Hayes and her handsome prince Dhiren...and his younger brother Kishan? It seems Miss Kelsey is torn between two decisions yet either way she chooses, someone will be left with a broken heart. As we follow Kelsey in her breathtaking journey in a foreign world, we the readers get a taste of Indian culture. We learn so much about this country from delicious gourmet dishes to powerful Indian gods and godesses. Tiger's Curse perfectly combines the perfect mix of a true, passionate love story with an action-packed thriller. My word of advice would to get your hands on this book and let Tiger's Curse pull you in to a world of mystery, romance, action and imagination. Alexanne ...more Ok, I have to admit, I didn't read this book. Instead my 13 year old niece read it. She wanted the book and I happened to win it! Works out great right? This is what she basically said: \"Can you get me the next book? I really want it. It was awesome\". I asked her to explain why it was awesome, she said \"I don't know, it just was, are you going to buy me the next one\". I guess that sums it up! I asked her how many stars she would give it, out of 5, she said 4 stars. I asked her why, she said \"I don Ok, I have to admit, I didn't read this book. Instead my 13 year old niece read it. She wanted the book and I happened to win it! Works out great right? This is what she basically said: \"Can you get me the next book? I really want it. It was awesome\". I asked her to explain why it was awesome, she said \"I don't know, it just was, are you going to buy me the next one\". I guess that sums it up! I asked her how many stars she would give it, out of 5, she said 4 stars. I asked her why, she said \"I don't know, just cause\". LOL- gotta love my niece! ...more Re-read from Aug 10th-13th, 2013: I wanted to re-read this series for such a long time, and now I finally am! My feelings for this book are pretty much the same as before so I'm not changing the rating. I found it a lot easier to read this time because I was prepared for what was to come, like the super long paragraphs where they just described stuff or explained something. Also, I noticed how Colleen planted little clues here and there of what was to come later in the series. I thought that was Re-read from Aug 10th-13th, 2013: I wanted to re-read this series for such a long time, and now I finally am! My feelings for this book are pretty much the same as before so I'm not changing the rating. I found it a lot easier to read this time because I was prepared for what was to come, like the super long paragraphs where they just described stuff or explained something. Also, I noticed how Colleen planted little clues here and there of what was to come later in the series. I thought that was pretty clever. Now, I'm off to continue my re-read-a-thon with book two! Review after reading for the first time from Jan 23rd-25th, 2012: I initially NEVER planned to read this book. I dunno, something about it just didn't capture my interest. After hearing about the hype around this series, and the fact that it's fantasy and has some great adventure and romance, I decided to give it a try. I mean, I just love a good fantasy/adventure novel. The Good - The story was very unique. It was different than the other shape-shifter novels I've read. The curse was also really interesting and I loved the story behind it. Colleen Houck gets mega creativity points for writing something different than the usual YA paranormal novels. - The romance was INTENSE! I was a bit worried it wouldn't be as good as others had said, but man, that was some seriously hot stuff right there! I admit, at times it was a bit cheesy, but it was GOOD cheesy. The relationship between Ren and Kelsey was well-written, and I'm glad it wasn't all \"insta-love at first sight\". There were many pages that I kept reading over and over and had to hide my face from others around me. Phew! There was one thing I didn't like, but I'll mention that later. - The setting of this book was in India, and I really liked that because it was another way this book stood out from the rest, which mostly take place somewhere in America. I'm not Indian, I'm from Pakistan, but I know the Indian culture pretty well so I didn't have a hard time getting used to it. Hindi is also somewhat similar to my native language, Urdu, so I was able to recognize some words. And although I've never been to India (though I'd love to), I've watched enough Bollywood movies to have an idea of what it looks like. I can tell Colleen did her research well! - The whole book, honestly, was very captivating. I literally couldn't put the book down and when I had to, my mind was constantly on the story. The beginning is a bit slow, and it takes some time for the adventure to start, but it's worth the wait. I can't figure out exactly WHAT it is about this book, but I just really liked it. Even though there were some flaws. The Bad - The writing was a bit simple. I'm not saying every authors writing should be amazing and such, but the writing in this book was too plain. It's like the author just wrote sentences down but didn't think about how to make it sound unique. However, Colleen Houck is definitely not a bad writer. After a while, I got used to the writing. But it could have been better. - Speaking of writing, while it was OK, the over-description of every single thing was frustrating. Yes, details are important, but only if they contribute to the story. The descriptions of everything from how a bedroom looks to the many types of plants there are were really unnecessary. I just wanted to get on with the story. - There is a slight love triangle here with Kelsey, Ren, and Kishan. I did not see the point of this. I understand why Ren likes Kelsey, but Kishan? He just came out of nowhere, took one look at Kelsey, and decided he likes her (Or at least, I think that's what happened in his head). Why did Kishan like her? I have no clue. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy love triangles, but this one seemed too forced. I might change my mind in the second book, but who knows. The In-Betweens - Religion was a big part of this book, especially Hinduism. I learned about it in my high school religions class, but I found myself learning new things from this book. It was very interesting! However. There was a small issue. There was a comment in the book about Islam, saying \"Allah will send down a tiger to defend and protect those who follow him faithfully, but he will also send a tiger to punish those he considers traitors.\" (pgs. 59-60) I'm just concerned that this line may offend others who are religious. I don't know whether this is true or not, though I have heard many stories about Islam and have studied it. Also, my parents are Muslim, but I'm not religious myself, so I don't find it offensive. This is a fictional book after all and we shouldn't take things seriously. Only when an author bashes a religion, no matter which religion, is when I get mad. But I think Colleen was just trying to make the story interesting. I can understand why some would find this offensive, though. So I think Colleen should've been a little more careful, that's all. - I loved the adventure, but the book sort of switched it's main focus from breaking the curse to the romance in the second half of the book. Of course, I loved the romance, but I wanted more adventure and see what happens next. This is also why I didn't really like the ending, which I felt could have been more, I dunno, shocking. I didn't even know it was the ending until I flipped the page. The Characters - Gosh. Kelsey. OK, I'm sort of going to rant a bit about her and why she wasn't one of my favourite characters, so if you want to, you can skip ahead. But if you decide to stick around, just bear with me, OK? So. I think the author wanted Kelsey to be a sweet, caring, innocent girl but that is not how I saw her at all. At first, I disliked her. In my opinion, she sounded like a 12 year old girl instead of the 18 year old adult that she actually was. She giggled at the dumbest things, has a spontaneous need to read POETRY to a tiger (whaaaat?), and blushes way too many times. I didn't think I would be able to stand her. Her character was just a bit over-played, to the point that she seemed fake to me. She also trusted people too easily. For example, I found Mr. Kadam very suspicious from the start. When he gave Kelsey that bag with a whole bunch of survival stuff, my suspicion grew. Kelsey, however, didn't think any of it and just accepted it. Dude, who the heck gives those kinds of things to someone going to another country? Wouldn't you find it weird that for such a rich guy like Mr. Kadam, he shouldn't even be worried about your safety since he'd probably put you in a five-star hotel? Why would he have any reason to think that you might get lost in, say, A JUNGLE? Come on. *shakes head* Anyways, she got tolerable after a while though, and I thought I could get on with the story without wanting to slap her. Gradually, I began to like her bit by bit. When she began thinking about her future with Ren and whether she should continue their relationship or not, I was happy for her. I'm glad she didn't turn out to be one of those girls who decides to throw her entire life away just for a guy with no second thoughts. I began to like Kelsey more. But than she ruined it by ignoring and pushing Ren away with no explanation, than getting mad and frustrated because he was angry. Um, hello? What did you expect, for him to be happy? She should've talked to Ren about it before deciding that it was never gonna work out and act like an idiot. Ugh. But I don't hate Kelsey. Just putting it out there. I just hope her character gets better in the other books. - Ren was DEEEE-LICIOUS! Seriously, I don't exactly blame Kelsey for becoming a slobbering idiot around him. I'd probably act like that in his presence as well. I loved his dedication to Kelsey. And he is so freakin' HAWT. I did think that he adapted to the modern world a bit too quickly and easily after being a tiger for 300 years, but whatever. I'm too busy drooling over him to care. Damn, he makes tigers look sexy. Yes, I've become a Ren fan-girl now. XD - Kishan didn't have a big role in this book, but he was a very interesting character. I liked him immediately. Again, I don't get why he likes Kelsey, but I heard that he's more involved in the second book. Let's see how that goes. Recommended? I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy and adventure, but you also have to be very patient with it. I'm not really a patient person, but when reading a book, I can give it time to wow me. But overall, I think others will really enjoy this book. OK, I think I've said all that I wanted to. Really, I haven't been this enthusiastic to write a review over a book for a while now. I just want to say that despite the flaws and the rating I'm giving, I really enjoyed this book and it definitely goes in my favorites list. I thought long and hard about whether I should put this in my \"books-i-fell-hard-for\" list, because I'm very strict about adding books to it. Not all of the books there are 5 stars, but these books are the ones that leave a big impact on me, my favorites of the favorites. And after staring at this book for a while, I decided that it does belong in that list. I do regret not reading this book earlier, but I'm also very happy that I gave it a chance. I look forward to reading Tiger's Quest soon! 3.5/5 ...more", "Title": "Tiger's Curse"},
