{"Comments": "<+++>Random Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx</+++>If this book was a novel, readers would probably dismiss it as too chaotic and not believable. But it is in fact a true story, the never ending cycle of living on the edge, the ghetto (<---B>largely the Bronx</---B>), where the girls get pregnant and the guys sell drugs and go to jail (some of the girls do too). Somehow, LeBlanc,<---M> the author</---M>, has gotten inside several families, and the result is you live with them, with all their turmoil, rage, love and loyalties. I'm not sure I've ever read a more honest acc If this book was a novel, readers would probably dismiss it as too chaotic and not believable. But it is in fact a true story, the never ending cycle of living on the edge, the ghetto (largely the Bronx), where the girls get pregnant and the guys sell drugs and go to jail (some of the girls do too). Somehow, LeBlanc, the author, has gotten inside several families, and the result is you live with them, with all their turmoil, rage, love and loyalties. I'm not sure I've ever read a more honest account of what it is like to live in this part of our society. I doubt I've ever read a 'coming of age' story as intense and memorable as this one. And I'm sure I will remember it for a very long time. ...more It's hard to truly understand poverty unless a) you experience it first-hand, or b) you read a work like Random Family. But this isn't just some study about poverty; it's about people. Although LeBlanc zooms in on several family members, she focuses on the lives of Coco and Jessica, two Latina women who at the beginning of the book are mid-teens--a vulnerable stage where they're trying to build their identities, impress others, and be experimental. This is where they start to make detrimental ch It's hard to truly understand poverty unless a) you experience it first-hand, or b) you read a work like Random Family. But this isn't just some study about poverty; it's about people. Although LeBlanc zooms in on several family members, she focuses on the lives of Coco and Jessica, two Latina women who at the beginning of the book are mid-teens--a vulnerable stage where they're trying to build their identities, impress others, and be experimental. This is where they start to make detrimental choices that will affect them forever. Sure, the ladies may be told that they can be successful and independent, but their role models are being beaten by boyfriends and the men showing interest in them are drug dealers. Since they are young and financially unstable, it's difficult to remove themselves from the culture; and even when they try, it's impossible to sever the ties. An amazing amount of time was put into this book. LeBlanc spent years researching, conducting interviews, and enveloping herself in the family's environments (she was present through many of the accounts). She's not some scholar who compiled her data from the safety of an upper-class neighborhood where she was so removed from the culture that she couldn't understand it. Yet she manages to detach herself from the book and tell it as a story--not that it necessarily reads like a novel, but it's narrated from a third person point of view, minus statistics or outside analysis. She does a good job of balancing details with the larger picture.<---F> This is not a fast read</---F>. You can't just skim it and understand the complexities of all the people and their relationships. There's a lot to keep straight, which is why some readers lose interest quickly. There's so much information to deal with that it could have been a hairy mess, but instead it has been formed into a smooth narrative. ...more Riveting and devastating. Required reading for anyone wanting to better understand not just the cycle of poverty, but the systems that keep that cycle churning. I rooted for the people in this book, while all the while seeing what they could never get out from under, frustrated by their choices, yet seeing why they could not plan or save money or get away from trouble. Without a belief in the future, there is only moment to moment. I think the LA Times blurb for Random Family , which called the book a 'non-fiction Middlemarch of the underclass,' is absolutely spot-on. While it is principally a brilliant work of journalism, the book also feels at times like a massive 19th century English novel. You know, one whose four dozen-odd 'characters' occupy a wide range of positions within their class, and it feels as if the story could go on, and should go on, forever. Most of the characters flit in and out of the narrative; however I think the LA Times blurb for Random Family , which called the book a 'non-fiction Middlemarch of the underclass,' is absolutely spot-on. While it is principally a brilliant work of journalism, the book also feels at times like a massive 19th century English novel. You know, one whose four dozen-odd 'characters' occupy a wide range of positions within their class, and it feels as if the story could go on, and should go on, forever. Most of the characters flit in and out of the narrative; however, a few grab the author's attention and lead her through the elemental yet compelling trials of their lives. The difference here, of course, is that Eliot's novel was about provincial, middle and upperclass Victorians, people who could lay claim to the central and dominant culture of the day. Meanwhile, LeBlanc's book encompasses the actual stories of poor people for whom nobody could give a shit. It preserves these people's often poetical expressions and keen insights into just how little say-so they've been given in their own lives. For me, it serves as an elegant answer to any politician or cretin fretting about \"class warfare.\" Useless Sidenote: LeBlanc probably used the phrase 'break night' or 'broke night' a hundred plus times. I always assumed that the colloquialism referred to an all-night binge where one 'broke' the night by partying into day (e.g., \"Yo, we broke night and sniffed yay until 9 in the morning!\"). However, LeBlanc's usage seems to mean any situation where people stay up all night talking. Someone page William Safire! Hott topic for an \"On Language\" column! ...more What was the point of this book? If it was the soap-operafication of a family in the midst of poverty, then mission accomplished. This book is pure voyeurism. There is no message to be found, no subtext about the plight of the poor, and ultimately no empathy from the author for these people who have been reduced by the author to their choices (many of them poor). Reading this book I learned nothing about these people except for their decisions; nothing about their inner lives or the insitutions What was the point of this book? If it was the soap-operafication of a family in the midst of poverty, then mission accomplished. This book is pure voyeurism. There is no message to be found, no subtext about the plight of the poor, and ultimately no empathy from the author for these people who have been reduced by the author to their choices (many of them poor). Reading this book I learned nothing about these people except for their decisions; nothing about their inner lives or the insitutions that perpetuate their condition. The writing itself is terribly paced, but she will of course get away with this by cramming as much personal information as she can, and the critics will applaude her \"honesty\". http://etude.uoregon.edu/spring2007/l... Look for a page expressing LeBlanc's \"connection\" to this family; you won't find it, not even in her acknowledgements. LeBlanc may not be \"present\" in the book, but in the end, it's all about her ; her journalistic technique, her \"struggle\" to write this book, etc, etc, ad nauseum... Read this interview with her and tell me that I'm wrong. Tell me she gives a damn about this family. She doesn't. She's already moving onto her next money-making project. She was awarded a Macarthur Fellowship for her work. That's a $500,000 stipend on top of whatever this book has already earned her. Anyone think any of that money will find its way to social justice projects that seek to alleviate the poverty she writes about? I doubt it. ...more I cherish this book. My daughter read it for a journalism class at NYU, and insisted that I read it. The author, Adrian Nicole Leblanc, spent ten years observing four young people and their extended families. She has written a masterwork in about living life on the streets in the Bronx. It is quite possibly the most thought-provoking book I have ever read. Even though we read it two years ago, Erin and I are still talking about it. Here is a small sample, from page 69: \"Back in their own Crystal I cherish this book. My daughter read it for a journalism class at NYU, and insisted that I read it. The author, Adrian Nicole Leblanc, spent ten years observing four young people and their extended families. She has written a masterwork in about living life on the streets in the Bronx. It is quite possibly the most thought-provoking book I have ever read. Even though we read it two years ago, Erin and I are still talking about it. Here is a small sample, from page 69: \"Back in their own Crystal Palace Suite, Coco and Cesar pretended they were on their honeymoon. They made love in the round bed and ordered food and watched TV and made love again in the heart-shaped Jacuzzi and laughed and playfought and never went to sleep. \"We broke night,\" Coco said. From their bed, they watched the morning brighten. Sometimes, in the Bronx, Coco broke night in her bedroom, watching the police conducting surveillance on the roof of the building across the way. Three Cuban brothers ran their drug operation from several of the apartments and there was always activity. Countless times, Cesar and Rocco broke night on the street. But daybreak in the Poconos was different. They weren't facing time to kill, or feeling left behind, or stuck. There was nobody out to hurt them, no sad mothers or brothers or sisters to worry about. The Poconos held promises beyond the reach of the usual; they could ski again, or play basketball, or go ice-skating, or ride a snowmobile. But the peace Cesar cherished most, the respite from acting tough. He later said, \"That's enough to hold a memory in.\" That weekend, in the Poconos was the only honeymoon Cesar and Coco would ever have, although they would remain in love for many years. They were both fourteen.: 'Nuff said. You MUST read this book. ...more I really enjoyed reading this book, however, I grew up in the South Bronx during the time this book was set in - so my review may be a little biased ;-). Based on an article written by the author, I received the impression that the author \"enjoyed\" leaving her uptown \"cushy\" cocoon to delve deep into the lower class, inner city as a voyeurist (FYI, the author spent about 10 years living with the family). Yes, anyone unbeknownst to the Bronx (or any urban area), will receive a close look into the I really enjoyed reading this book, however, I grew up in the South Bronx during the time this book was set in - so my review may be a little biased ;-). Based on an article written by the author, I received the impression that the author \"enjoyed\" leaving her uptown \"cushy\" cocoon to delve deep into the lower class, inner city as a voyeurist (FYI, the author spent about 10 years living with the family). Yes, anyone unbeknownst to the Bronx (or any urban area), will receive a close look into the lives of ONE very dysfunctional family and form an opinion about how BAD it must be growing up in such an environment. MOST families are not like this where I come from, as mine surely wasn't (I didn't have roaches and rats and drug dealers in the hallway of my building). Yes, even though I grew up in a time where drugs was rampant, we couldn't play in playgrounds without seeing an empty crack vial or syringe on the ground. However, there were also good memories of block parties, BBQ's, good friends and family. I feel that Ms. LeBlanc made the Bronx seem much worse than it really was, based on this one particular family. PLEASE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS FAMILY IS NOT THE NORM in the inner city. I'm also concerned and have questions about whether or not Ms. LeBlanc helped this family in any way. Were any proceeds of the book given to help Coco, Cesar, or Jessica? What about their children? Or was this truly just a voyeuristic look into an extremely dysfunctional family in an overly exaggerated version of a South Bronx neighborhood? ...more Since I began this book a week ago, I've had about 4 or 5 dreams about its characters--real people whose lives are brutal, unfair, fascinating, and frustrating. At first I was struck by the \"then this happened, then this happened,\" summarized nature of the narrative, LeBlanc's absence somewhat troubling, ghost-like, but as the story continued the telling of it slowed, became more dramatic, and occasionally LeBlanc added interpretations of these people's predicaments. She is both objective and co Since I began this book a week ago, I've had about 4 or 5 dreams about its characters--real people whose lives are brutal, unfair, fascinating, and frustrating. At first I was struck by the \"then this happened, then this happened,\" summarized nature of the narrative, LeBlanc's absence somewhat troubling, ghost-like, but as the story continued the telling of it slowed, became more dramatic, and occasionally LeBlanc added interpretations of these people's predicaments. She is both objective and compassionate; this book will stay with me for a long time. In some ways, Random Family reminded me of the street narratives of Season 4 of The Wire. It's heartbreaking in that same way...that anger you feel when you see young people without opportunity, or resources, or choice. \"To hold the prison legally accountable for Jessica's predicament, the students had to prove that the injuries she had suffered were intentional. The legal challenge was a lot like the challenge of demonstrating the impact of racism or poverty or substandard housing: How could you untangle the structural injustices from the self-inflicted damage? How could you separate neglect from malice, the intended from the unintended harms?\" ...more This is a phenomenal book that unflinchingly documents the personal stories of a loosely defined bronx family. <---A>Adrian Nicole LeBlanc</---A> immersed herself in an impoverished, marginalized community for over 10 years and this book is the result. As a social worker these are stories I hear often: generations of abuse, addictions, teen pregnancies, incarceration, abandonment, mind numbing poverty, and violence. What is truly amazing about LeBlanc's work is that she does not glamorize, sanitize, condemn, This is a phenomenal book that unflinchingly documents the personal stories of a loosely defined bronx family. Adrian Nicole LeBlanc immersed herself in an impoverished, marginalized community for over 10 years and this book is the result. As a social worker these are stories I hear often: generations of abuse, addictions, teen pregnancies, incarceration, abandonment, mind numbing poverty, and violence. What is truly amazing about LeBlanc's work is that she does not glamorize, sanitize, condemn, pathologize, or pity the people whom she writes about. Undoubtably it is her ability to simply listen and capture the complexities of their lives in a non-judgemental way that won her the trust of this family to begin with. It reads like fiction, and there are times that you wish it was. No happy-ending, no heavy-handed morals, just an honest glimpse into the lives of some amazingly strong people. ...more This book was the perfect antidote to all my griping about the narrow and occasionally judgmental Orthodox Jewish world in which I live. For all the extremes the community sometimes goes to in order to protect its insularity, the overwhelming majority of kids it produces never experiment with drugs or get into trouble with the law. Boys and girls alike are virgins until their wedding night. But not so in the South Bronx. After reading the painstaking detail of the struggle to grow up there, I\u2019d This book was the perfect antidote to all my griping about the narrow and occasionally judgmental Orthodox Jewish world in which I live. For all the extremes the community sometimes goes to in order to protect its insularity, the overwhelming majority of kids it produces never experiment with drugs or get into trouble with the law. Boys and girls alike are virgins until their wedding night. But not so in the South Bronx. After reading the painstaking detail of the struggle to grow up there, I\u2019d be amazed that anyone breaks free and joins the middle class. The book focuses mainly on four people: Jessica, her boyfriend George, her younger brother Cesar, and his girlfriend Coco. Jessica\u2019s story comes first. As a teenager, she made the common mistake of women regardless of socio-economic class. She decided that \u201clove is the most interesting place to go, and beauty is the ticket.\u201d She dressed herself up and began hanging around the neighborhood. The first boy she attracted was Puma, a low level drug dealer. He fathered her first child when she was sixteen. But relationships are a merry-go-round in this book, so both Puma and Jessica were involved with other people simultaneously. After all, why should Jessica differ from her mother? Of her three siblings, she only shares a father with Cesar. Jessica\u2019s life changed when she begins to attract the notice of \u201cBoy George,\u201d the richest and most successful drug dealer in the neighborhood. To become George\u2019s main girl was a status symbol, and Jessica pursued that ambition with determination, usurping several other girls in the process. Soon, like George, she became a local legend. The story of George\u2019s rise is one of the most interesting parts of the book. He was a disciplined entrepreneur, never partaking of the drugs he dealt. He had numerous underlings, and he knew how to manage them. He also knew when to seize on opportunities to expand his business. It reminded me of the point made in Freakonomics - the crack business was structured and organized much the same way as the McDonald\u2019s franchises are. George dealt in heroin, not crack, but I\u2019d imagine the business model is not all that different. At its height, George\u2019s business was making half a million dollars a week. That\u2019s $26 million a year \u2013 and this was the late 1980\u2019s! If his business had been legal, where would that have placed him on Forbes\u2019 list? Though George invested some of his profits back into the business, he also spent lavishly on himself and his friends, Jessica and her family included. He bought Jessica clothing and jewelry. He made sure her mother never lacked for food (or cocaine). He took trips to Puerto Rico and Disneyworld. And once a year, he would rent a yacht and throw a party for his staff, customers, and friends. To return to the McDonald\u2019s parallel, I could not help but think of No Shame in My Game , another book about the inner city poor, set at about the same time as this one, but focusing specifically on fast food workers. The fast food industry probably supplies more legal jobs in the inner city than any other, but no fast food worker will ever earn enough to live like George or his immediate underlings. Heck, most middle class people don\u2019t either. So anyone who\u2019s living in poverty in the inner city and chooses an honest, low wage job over a much more lucrative, albeit dangerous, life of crime deserves tremendous honor. Think of that next time you\u2019re being served in Starbucks. One day, on a lark, George splurged and took Jessica, Cesar, and Coco to a hotel in the Poconos. Though Cesar and Coco were only fifteen at the time, they went at it in their hotel suite like a couple of honeymooners. But they were small time compared to George and Jessica. Coco was amazed that Jessica would even deign to hang out with her. She was a \u201cgirl with all that.\u201d But as it turns out, she and Cesar had a much better relationship than Jessica and George. Of course, the law eventually caught up with George and Jessica. George is still serving his life sentence; Jessica got ten years. Eventually, Cesar was imprisoned for an unrelated violent crime. And from that point on, Coco is the main focus of the book. If George was the most interesting \u201ccharacter,\u201d Coco is definitely the most likable. She ultimately had five children, two of whom are Cesar\u2019s. Cesar often complained about his lot in his letters from prison, but the book makes clear that Coco has it harder, raising the kids on the outside on her own. Cesar got counseling and GED classes; Coco tried, but barely had time with the kids underfoot. She was hardly the ideal mother (and who is?), but her heart was almost always in the right place. Unlike Jessica, whose kids were raised by her friend Milagros even after her release, Coco always put her kids first. Though she was a welfare mother, Coco is like those fast food workers. She struggled against the odds with meager results, but she just kept going because she\u2019d rather \u201clive right\u201d than wrong. Other reviewers said this book made them judgmental. I hope I don\u2019t come across that way. What I got out of it was just how difficult it is to break out of poverty. Coco\u2019s and even Jessica\u2019s kids deserve every bit of help society can provide them. How else can we ever hope to close the gaping hole of inequality in this country? ...more WARNING TO MY BOOK CLUB: DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW!!!! IT\u2019S ONE OF THE BOOKS WE PICKED TO READ SOON. IT\u2019S ALSO POSSIBLE THAT MY VIEWS WILL CHANGE AFTER A SECOND READ. SO DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW YET. DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW This book was pretty good... about a family in the Bronx that she followed for ten years. It relates to poverty/race a bit- it's interesting to see how they survive- unfortunately jail shows up too often. I know \"interesting to see\" sounds detached... but that's WARNING TO MY BOOK CLUB: DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW!!!! IT\u2019S ONE OF THE BOOKS WE PICKED TO READ SOON. IT\u2019S ALSO POSSIBLE THAT MY VIEWS WILL CHANGE AFTER A SECOND READ. SO DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW YET. DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW DON\u2019T READ THIS REVIEW This book was pretty good... about a family in the Bronx that she followed for ten years. It relates to poverty/race a bit- it's interesting to see how they survive- unfortunately jail shows up too often. I know \"interesting to see\" sounds detached... but that's the way I felt about the book in general. I didn't feel very attached to the characters (people, I should say) bc the book was pretty straight journalism. There certainly IS a place for straight journalism, but 300 pages of straight reporting... it was monotonous. The book, and the family in it, could have benefitted- or maybe I, the reader, could have benefitted- from just a LITTLE more angle from the author. Random Family got great reviews in the New York Times, but it was not THAT enjoyable a read because of the disconnect I felt from the story. It was more of a \u201cthis happened, and she said this, then that happened, and they went here, and back at the house, this was happening\u2026\u201d I just wished LeBlanc had reached more conclusions and had more opinions. Not TOO much, because I do think the family should be center stage, but I think this book needed MORE\u2026 more of something. I read the book several years ago, so when I reread it, I\u2019ll more closely figure that out. You might think that the writer of a non-fiction book should not insert their own views- but when an author does that, it can give the reader more of a structure in which to place the story. Like the amazing book \"Problem from Hell: American in the Age of Genocide\" by Samantha Power. I know the book sounds depressing, but it had me spellbound. It is a DENSE book- full of facts about the genocides of the 20th century\u2026but her writing is concise yet engaging. As I read, I found myself hating her bc she was doing SUCH a good job and I was SO jealous. Power had clearly reached conclusions about the subject and each chapter was organized accordingly- I don\u2019t think I could have gotten through this dense book without her organization and the way her voice comes through\u2026 it\u2019s one of the most incredible books I\u2019ve read. ...more \"Random\" family, in the sense of \"typical\"? Well, not exactly. LeBlanc actually says in the book that her subjects are NOT typical of the folks who live in their neighborhood. The illusion that what's portrayed is representative is one of this book's major flaws. The book reinforces stereotypes associated with race and class (e.g. the \"welfare queen\" going on a cocaine binge in a limo, the baby mama drama). LeBlanc focuses heavily on the psychological angle (why would someone go back to her abus \"Random\" family, in the sense of \"typical\"? Well, not exactly. LeBlanc actually says in the book that her subjects are NOT typical of the folks who live in their neighborhood. The illusion that what's portrayed is representative is one of this book's major flaws. The book reinforces stereotypes associated with race and class (e.g. the \"welfare queen\" going on a cocaine binge in a limo, the baby mama drama). LeBlanc focuses heavily on the psychological angle (why would someone go back to her abusive drug dealer boyfriend?) and the moral angle (why would someone spend money on cocaine instead of tuition?) This makes the book a page-turner at times, but it also feels strangely flat. You know why? Because the personal and psychological angles are only part of the story! She almost entirely leaves out the structural angle. WHY does this kind of poverty exist? Why are these folks so disenfranchised? How have racism and sexism contributed to the inequalities? What effect have social programs had, or what effect could they have, on the problems? LeBlanc spends very little time on these questions, so you're left with the idea that Coco and Jessica and their friends and families are so screwed up because they keep making bad choices. And they do make bad choices, but plenty of people around them (who are not the focus of this story) make good choices and are still not able to \"make it\", because of structural inequalities. A couple of stylistic comments: The book also would have benefited from some judicious editing - the story becomes repetitive and soap-opera-y after a little while. Also, LeBlanc's choice to tell the story as an omniscient narrator - leaving herself almost entirely out of the story - is one which I find problematic, both stylistically and ethically. When thoughts and feelings were described in great detail, it wasn't clear how much came from the characters themselves and how much was LeBlanc's interpretation. ...more An eye-opening true life account of life in the inner city. if i were to rename it, i'd title it \"Survivor: Bronx\". I was a camp counselor in North Philadelphia and was very surprised to see how similar living conditions in the bronx are to philly. All the families are on welfare, most of the kids have different fathers, it is commonplace for teenage single mothers, everyone had a family member or knew someone in jail, and the kids also lived in a drug infested neighborhood. I found reading this An eye-opening true life account of life in the inner city. if i were to rename it, i'd title it \"Survivor: Bronx\". I was a camp counselor in North Philadelphia and was very surprised to see how similar living conditions in the bronx are to philly. All the families are on welfare, most of the kids have different fathers, it is commonplace for teenage single mothers, everyone had a family member or knew someone in jail, and the kids also lived in a drug infested neighborhood. I found reading this book so invaluable to understanding the families that i met during the summer. Before reading this book, i often judged the young, teenage mothers thinking, \"Why would you get pregnant so soon? Why would you throw your life, your education and your future away?\" But now i understand that it is a norm and that poverty also contributes to a lack of birth control methods. At many points in the book, i also felt very angry at the whole system of supporting inner city families. it seems that there is no way for upward mobility unless you're a rapper, drug dealer, or star athlete. Schools are crummy with underpaid teachers, welfare barely covers living costs, and crime is everywhere. i found myself wondering what the solution is for the millions living in these conditions and felt hopeless at the vicious cycle of stunted mobility and poverty. ...more This is just an amazing, amazing book. Possibly the most depressing book I've ever read. LeBlanc completely and utterly immersed herself in the lives of her very poor, very lawbreaking subjects and tells their stories matter-of-factly, without an ounce of judgment or condemnation. Phenomenal. She needs to write more books. Incredibly cold, boring, redundant, and banal. LeBlanc's approach is cold and lifeless; journalism at its most barren. She took no interest in any of the people involved; it read like one giant insensate run-on list of daily activities. I\u2019ve been procrastinating on this review because it\u2019s so hard to explain why a book is great or important. But when I come across one that is I have to share it with people.... so. This is a work of narrative nonfiction, following an extended family and their friends for about 17 years. The subjects are impoverished Puerto Rican-Americans and the setting is the Bronx (and upstate New York) from the mid-1980s through the beginning of the 21st century. Despite claims to the contrary, it does not re I\u2019ve been procrastinating on this review because it\u2019s so hard to explain why a book is great or important. But when I come across one that is I have to share it with people.... so. This is a work of narrative nonfiction, following an extended family and their friends for about 17 years. The subjects are impoverished Puerto Rican-Americans and the setting is the Bronx (and upstate New York) from the mid-1980s through the beginning of the 21st century. Despite claims to the contrary, it does not read like a novel--novels are constructed of scenes following narrative arcs, and Random Family is built of facts and details following the vagaries of real people\u2019s lives--but the story is as compelling as a work of fiction. It\u2019s hard to put down even though it\u2019s depressing. I\u2019ll say that again: this book is really depressing. The author keeps political opinions out of it, but essentially it\u2019s a book about what it\u2019s like to be poor, and why people who are born to poverty find it difficult or impossible to escape. I\u2019m a little ashamed to admit that by the end I didn\u2019t have much admiration for any of the principals--they make a lot of mistakes, to put it lightly; they\u2019re terrible at relationships; worst of all, they all damage their children in serious ways, even when trying their best--but I did feel that I understood them, as much as one can simply by reading a book whose subject matter is far removed from one\u2019s personal experience. Would I do any better if I\u2019d grown up with everything people face in this book: neglectful, drug-addicted or simply incompetent parents, child molestation, drug dealers on every street corner, role models who were dealers themselves (if male) or single mothers in unstable and often abusive relationships (if female), overcrowded apartments with an endless parade of people crashing in the living room because they had nowhere else to go, and so on? I can\u2019t say with any confidence that I would. What this book does magnificently is dig deep into the characters\u2019 lives, allowing the details to build up to form a complete picture--there isn\u2019t one simple cause for anything. Lack of money is part of the problem but the damage done by broken families and terrible societal influences can\u2019t be ignored either, and it\u2019s all mixed up together. Which isn\u2019t to say that people don\u2019t try to improve themselves--we see that here. And to some extent they succeed. But it isn\u2019t easy. What really struck me is how the decisions people make as teenagers have such terrible long-term consequences: even the \u201cgood\u201d girls are getting pregnant in their mid-teens, while the boys are building up a criminal record and often landing themselves with long prison sentences to boot. In the middle-class world teenagers make bad decisions too, but parents or society tend to shield them from the worst of the consequences. The kids in this book don\u2019t have that safety net, nor anyone who can credibly demand that they do better. I don\u2019t mean to say the book is all doom and gloom, because there are happy events too, but what stands out the most is just how much people who start with nothing have to struggle for the things many of us take for granted. This book puts you inside their world and makes sense of it. And it does a great job of bringing their personalities to life and of telling a fluid story, though not one with a neat beginning or end. The writing flows smoothly and the descriptions bring people and places to life in a few words. It\u2019s all told in a neutral, non-judgmental tone, the author clearly working to present her subjects to us on their own terms, without value judgments. And she succeeds at it. The author\u2019s complete absence from the book is weird, especially since she states in the acknowledgements that she was present for most of the scenes recorded--surely, for her to be included in these events and convince people to open up to her to the extent that they did, she must have become an important person in their lives? But while it may not be entirely honest, I understand the purpose of erasing herself from the narrative: the point is not to filter her subjects through privileged eyes or distract us with her opinions but to present the stories that matter here as directly as possible. So, this an important book, one you should certainly read if you work with impoverished people (I know I\u2019ve met women like Coco), or, you know, vote, or have opinions about social programs. Or if you just live in the U.S. Almost everybody who didn\u2019t grow up in this kind of situation would likely benefit from such an intimate, detailed look into the lives of people who weren\u2019t born with the privileges we take for granted. I certainly did. ...more Random Family is one of those rare books that I feel sad to have finished. There were many days when I only read 10 or 15 pages, just so that I could put off saying goodbye to the subjects of the story I'd grown so close to for a little while longer. This book sat on my desk at home for nearly a year before i ever picked it up, just because I didn't know what to expect from it. Now that I have turned its final page, I know that I will cherish the time I spent reading it for the rest of my life. Random Family is one of those rare books that I feel sad to have finished. There were many days when I only read 10 or 15 pages, just so that I could put off saying goodbye to the subjects of the story I'd grown so close to for a little while longer. This book sat on my desk at home for nearly a year before i ever picked it up, just because I didn't know what to expect from it. Now that I have turned its final page, I know that I will cherish the time I spent reading it for the rest of my life. Perhaps more than any of the young people profiled in this book, Coco's story is the most engrossing. With each page, the reader shares her struggles, her hopes and her disappointments. The reader hopes that she will get through each difficult situation and that maybe she can finally get ahead but, as the book progresses, even cautious optimism seems foolish. Coco and her family can only hope to get by. What gives this book most strength is the amount of time -over a decade- that Adrian Nicole Leblanc spent with the family. This allows the reader to observe each of the story's subjects experiencing the joys and optimism of their youth. Over the next decade, the harshness of their poverty steals their hope. Life becomes a constant battle to get by, to have a place to stay, to find enough food. The struggle changes them immensely, and they lose pieces of their person-hood. In their youth, Coco and Jessica could distract themselves from their problems by dressing cute and smiling as boys complimented them when they passed by on the street. However, the intrusion of adulthood and the burden of impossible to meet responsibilities eventually made even those small reprieves meaningless to them. The young men in the story, Boy George..Ceasar..Frankie..Rocco..Wishbone, struggle against traditional conceptions of masculinity. They rebel against the humiliations of being unable to be providers, and they are each punished for the inadequacy poverty has forced upon them. Leblanc perfectly captures all of the complicated dynamics that motivate each of the young people. The result is something between Sister Souljah's The Coldest Winter Ever and Jacob Riis's How the Other Half Lives. As a writer and a journalism student, this book has inspired me more than any non-fiction I've ever read, and I will never be the same. ...more I had to go to Amazon and copy word for word their synopsis because I strongly urge everyone to read this book and I did not want to do it a disservice by my meager way with words so this excerpt is from Amazon.com Politicians rail about welfare queens, crack babies and deadbeat dads, but what do they know about the real struggle it takes to survive being poor? Journalist LeBlanc spent some 10 years researching and interviewing one extended family-mother Lourdes, daughter Jessica, daughter-in-law I had to go to Amazon and copy word for word their synopsis because I strongly urge everyone to read this book and I did not want to do it a disservice by my meager way with words so this excerpt is from Amazon.com Politicians rail about welfare queens, crack babies and deadbeat dads, but what do they know about the real struggle it takes to survive being poor? Journalist LeBlanc spent some 10 years researching and interviewing one extended family-mother Lourdes, daughter Jessica, daughter-in-law Coco and all their boyfriends, children and in-laws-from the Bronx to Troy, N.Y., in and out of public housing, emergency rooms, prisons and courtrooms. LeBlanc's close listening produced this extraordinary book, a rare look at the world from the subjects' point of view. Readers learn that prison is just an extension of the neighborhood, a place most men enter and a rare few leave. They learn the realities of welfare: the myriad of misdemeanors that trigger reduction or termination of benefits, only compounding a desperate situation. They see teenaged drug dealers with incredible organizational and financial skills, 13-year-old girls having babies to keep their boyfriends interested, older women reminiscing about the \"heavenly time\" they spent in a public hospital's psychiatric ward and incarcerated men who find life's first peace and quiet in solitary confinement. More than anything, LeBlanc shows how demanding poverty is. Her prose is plain and unsentimental, blessedly jargon-free, and includidng street talk only when one of her subjects wants to \"conversate.\" This fine work deserves attention from policy makers and general readers alike. ...more As intrigued as I was by the premise, the book itself felt like a bit of a slog, and I never quite read the whole thing, more skimmed it. This book is an amazing piece of investigative journalism. Just imagine enmeshing yourself in the lives of a Puerto Rican family in the Bronx (mostly) for 11 years in order to tell their story. Then imagine telling their story with utter honesty, an unusual intimacy and a complete lack of judgment. You have a masterpiece that allows us to actually \"experience\" the unrelenting cycles of poverty, drugs and violence endured by many Americans. This book is a commitment of time on the reader's part. I This book is an amazing piece of investigative journalism. Just imagine enmeshing yourself in the lives of a Puerto Rican family in the Bronx (mostly) for 11 years in order to tell their story. Then imagine telling their story with utter honesty, an unusual intimacy and a complete lack of judgment. You have a masterpiece that allows us to actually \"experience\" the unrelenting cycles of poverty, drugs and violence endured by many Americans. This book is a commitment of time on the reader's part. In order to understand the choices this ghetto family makes, you have to put yourself inside the story. You have to quit wishing that Jessica and Coco and Cesar and Boy George and Mercedes would make different choices and look at life through their eyes. I found myself thinking about these resilient yet trapped people long after I closed the book. The author is unflinching in her descriptions of the living conditions, codes of street conduct, prison mentality, sexual abuse, homelessness, unplanned pregnancies, educational failures, violence, infestation,and generational cycles of living on the edge. She did not glamorize, proselytize, sanitize, condemn or pity this family. Sure, I wanted to believe that Mercedes or Naughty or Eddie or Freddie would be the new generation that could break away from family patterns. I now realize how deeply engrained these patterns are and how difficult it is to test your family loyalty and branch off in a new direction. I used to naively think that money could do a lot to help those who live in abject poverty. Now I realize that it takes so much more. It takes camping opportunities and teachers like Mercedes fourth grade teacher who could look beyond her belligerence and truancy. This teacher looked into her eyes and saw layers of hurt rather than simply anger.A child needs to have models outside their family who both appreciate their culture and expose them to other ways of thinking. When we reach out a hand, we must be patient as it is our repeated actions that speak way louder than our words or money. Cesar said it was his once in a lifetime \"respite from acting tough\" that he treasured most. Gang members don't get many respites. ...more I have been surprised by some of the other reviews I've read about this book commenting that they cannot believe these people make the same mistakes over and over again. While what, to you, may seem like a mistake, is in fact the only way known to the people in this book, and they face circumstances that facilitate the lifestyles they have and don't offer many paths out. The best way it was addressed, I feel, in the book was by Cesar: \"Mercedes\u2019s predicament extended beyond personal history or fa I have been surprised by some of the other reviews I've read about this book commenting that they cannot believe these people make the same mistakes over and over again. While what, to you, may seem like a mistake, is in fact the only way known to the people in this book, and they face circumstances that facilitate the lifestyles they have and don't offer many paths out. The best way it was addressed, I feel, in the book was by Cesar: \"Mercedes\u2019s predicament extended beyond personal history or family or attitude or teenage parenting. \u2018Poverty is a subculture that exists within the ghetto,\u2019 he said. \u2018It goes beyond black or Hispanic, at least in my mind. Overworked teachers. Run-down schools. It looks like they designed this system to make our children fail. Socio-economic conditions. Why are we so passive? We accept conditions that don\u2019t benefit us \u2013 economic oppression we\u2019ve been suffering for years. That\u2019s the primary condition.\" I finished it in 2 days, because I honestly could not stop reading it. It is one of the most realistic, unbiased views of generational poverty that I have ever read. I loved it. The way the author chooses to weave the stories of Boy George, Jessica, Coco and Cesar together was completely engrossing and unbelievably eye-opening. It shocked me, depressed me, and overall reminded me that people do not necessarily choose the lives they have, and even when they want to, there are so many forces working against them and stopping their agency that their ability to overcome is one of the biggest challenges. More than anything, this book made me question what would need to happen in this country to solve the problems raised within these peoples lives. I don't even know where to begin - institutionally, socially, economically, even down to the value placed on jewelry and material goods as status. I don't know how you create a shift in the public consciousness to create an understanding, nor how you confront so many interwoven issues. I do think, however, that reading this book with the sensitivity to understand its characters and not dismiss them is a start. ...more This was excellent, if unremitting, and a total page-turner. LeBlanc's nonfiction account follows the ups and downs (mostly downs) in the lives of a group of young people growing up in the South Bronx. Her narrative spans from the early 1980s to the beginning of the 21st century and centers on two young women, Jessica and Coco, taking them from pre-adolescence through to early adulthood. It's harrowing to say the least--though, as LeBlanc points out in her author's note at the end, there's nothi This was excellent, if unremitting, and a total page-turner. LeBlanc's nonfiction account follows the ups and downs (mostly downs) in the lives of a group of young people growing up in the South Bronx. Her narrative spans from the early 1980s to the beginning of the 21st century and centers on two young women, Jessica and Coco, taking them from pre-adolescence through to early adulthood. It's harrowing to say the least--though, as LeBlanc points out in her author's note at the end, there's nothing particularly special or unusually shitty about these two women's lives compared with most of the girls around them. Over the years that LeBlanc follows them, Jessica, Coco, and others around them cope with pregnancy and early parenthood, addiction, abuse, violence, incarceration, poverty, and more, all built on a foundation of unimaginably horrific housing conditions, less-than-ideal parenting, and, in the case of nearly every single woman mentioned in the narrative, early sexual abuse. LeBlanc neither valorizes nor demonizes her subjects - she simply narrates their lives, occasionally throwing in a well placed insight. While reading, I felt a consistent blend of compassion and exasperation (not to mention outrage). It's easy to get frustrated with Coco & Jessica for not making changes in their lives, but LeBlanc continually reminds us that it's not as simple as that. And while it can be tempting to blame Coco & Jessica's continual predicaments and crises on their own inertia, to do so would be to deny the constant pull of their pasts & presents, both of which are laden with events so heavy, and experienced starting at such an early age, that I think if I had to carry even one of them around for my entire life, I'd be pretty inert too. In the end, there are a lot of heartbreaking things about this book, but perhaps most heartbreaking of all is the characters' emerging awareness of and dismay over how they are repeating all their parents' mistakes, and how they can already see their children starting to repeat theirs. Sigh. ...more The author started this project intending to write about Boy George who had been arrested at the age of 23 after becoming a millionare by dealing heroin. Along the way she ran into Jessica one of his girlfriends and decided she wanted to write about her life instead. LeBlanc followed Jessica and her extended family for twelve years mainly focusing on Jessica and her sister in law Coco. If you don't know poverty then after reading this book you will. This book gives you a better understanding of h The author started this project intending to write about Boy George who had been arrested at the age of 23 after becoming a millionare by dealing heroin. Along the way she ran into Jessica one of his girlfriends and decided she wanted to write about her life instead. LeBlanc followed Jessica and her extended family for twelve years mainly focusing on Jessica and her sister in law Coco. If you don't know poverty then after reading this book you will. This book gives you a better understanding of how generation after generation remains in abject poverty. Dreams usually never open their sleepy eyes in the ghetto. Don't understand what I mean by that? Read this book and you will. I'm actually really impressed that an author wrote about regular struggles of the poor in the US. Not only did she tell Jessica, and Coco's stories, but in telling them she told of so many other young mothers stories in ghettos big and small all across the US. I personally know what it is to live in the big city ghetto, and in a small town ghetto. I know a lot of the struggles these people go through on a very personal level. Still I found myself willing these people to make other choices such as , get on birth control, take that apartment, and get that education. I saw so many people I know in these two womens stories that this book will stay with me for a very long time. This book just goes to show you that everyones life is a story, and it was really interesting to follow the lives of these two young women for so many years. ...more Journalist LeBlanc spent over a decade throughout the 80s and 90s with the members of one extended family in the Bronx, following their every move at home, on the streets, in hospital rooms, court hearings, and prison cells. As the children grow up amid bitter poverty, a fractured home life, and the dangerously alluring 1980s explosion of the street drug trade, they must struggle not only towards adulthood, but also for their own everyday survival. LeBlanc becomes like a member of the family, pl Journalist LeBlanc spent over a decade throughout the 80s and 90s with the members of one extended family in the Bronx, following their every move at home, on the streets, in hospital rooms, court hearings, and prison cells. As the children grow up amid bitter poverty, a fractured home life, and the dangerously alluring 1980s explosion of the street drug trade, they must struggle not only towards adulthood, but also for their own everyday survival. LeBlanc becomes like a member of the family, placing you in the middle of shockingly intimate scenes of modern urban poverty. What is most striking about the story is the sheer amount of time that LeBlanc devotes to its telling. Since she is on-hand for a significant portion of her characters\u2019 lives, you literally get to watch as children turn into adults on the page, and witness the tragic cause and effect nature of how the decisions of children later shape the course of their adult lives. As you are drawn further and further into this world, you find yourself identifying with and pulling for different characters, only to have your sentiments drastically shift as the characters themselves mature and change. Told in a lean, straightforward conversational prose and touching upon such disparate genres as urban fiction, romantic melodrama, and true crime thriller, this non-fiction portrait of inner city life is taut and gripping from the very first page. Leblanc has crafted an exhilarating, heartbreaking book that you will not soon forget. (Andy R. Reader's Services) ...more This book is haunting. It has haunted me since I put it down and I don't foresee a time when I will not think about it or the people in it and wonder where they are and how they are doing. I so want the author to write an update but I am also so afraid of what I will read. This is a 10 year long look into an extended family living in the South Bronx. I read this because it was recommended in one of the articles I read about Orange is the New Black. The family lives in the web of extreme poverty a This book is haunting. It has haunted me since I put it down and I don't foresee a time when I will not think about it or the people in it and wonder where they are and how they are doing. I so want the author to write an update but I am also so afraid of what I will read. This is a 10 year long look into an extended family living in the South Bronx. I read this because it was recommended in one of the articles I read about Orange is the New Black. The family lives in the web of extreme poverty and while I can't say that this book gave any insight into how to change things (which I loved about it), it definitely allowed you to feel what it really is to be stuck in that world and how simple solutions are ridiculous. While I wanted to scream sometimes about the choices that characters made, my heart also broke for them. I especially loved Coco and wanted so badly to dive into the book and help Mercedes. This book gave so much humanity to these people and I loved that. I don't think people should read this because it is so well done and interesting, although it is. Everyone should read this because this is reality. We should all know about it and ask ourselves how we can change the world, even just a little bit. I know I will host a fresh air fund child next summer but I really want to do so much more as well. ...more a tour-de-force of a nonfiction account of two families in the Bronx over more than a decade. It reminded me of \"Behind the Beautiful Forevers\" in terms of the author's ability to gain access to other's lives without becoming a part of the story (though who really knows). It's an intimate look at the cycle of poverty, drugs, incarceration, and the impact on children's lives in an urban setting. The author doesn't judge her subjects, she simply presents their realities in an unembellished, straig a tour-de-force of a nonfiction account of two families in the Bronx over more than a decade. It reminded me of \"Behind the Beautiful Forevers\" in terms of the author's ability to gain access to other's lives without becoming a part of the story (though who really knows). It's an intimate look at the cycle of poverty, drugs, incarceration, and the impact on children's lives in an urban setting. The author doesn't judge her subjects, she simply presents their realities in an unembellished, straightforward style. I'd love a \"where are they now\"! ...more Informative, moving, heartbreaking, amazing. I can't say enough about this book. LeBlanc puts you squarely inside the lives of Jessica, Coco, Cesar and George, their children, relatives and friends in this unflinching portrait of life in the inner-city - the drugs, the horrible schools, the prisons that so many of the residents eventually call home. Even if you think you know poverty, you've never read anything like this. I'm dying to find out what happened to all these people whom I came to car Informative, moving, heartbreaking, amazing. I can't say enough about this book. LeBlanc puts you squarely inside the lives of Jessica, Coco, Cesar and George, their children, relatives and friends in this unflinching portrait of life in the inner-city - the drugs, the horrible schools, the prisons that so many of the residents eventually call home. Even if you think you know poverty, you've never read anything like this. I'm dying to find out what happened to all these people whom I came to care about. I can heartily recommend this book to everyone. ...more This book floored me. THIS is the book I will be telling everyone to read in the months to come. Excerpts to come when I have time, hopefully... I wasn't sold at first but this was some damn fine reportage. Frankie's such a little bitch though Literally read the title and no need to read the rest<---C>Adrian Nicole LeBlanc</---C><+++>Random Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx</+++>", "Title": "Random Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx"},
