{"Comments": "I had trouble rating this book; it is definetly a page-turner, so why only two stars? I found the storyline riveting, but the writing style took me many pages to get used to - overly simplistic at times. I also felt that it had too many frivolous descriptions; I found myself skimming to find actions, feelings, and more dialogue. During the first half of the book,<---M> I was saying</---M>, \"I do not like this book at all,\" but as I read further, I discovered the value of it as a lesson to be learned about ho I had trouble rating this book; it is definetly a page-turner, so why only two stars? I found the storyline riveting, but the writing style took me many pages to get used to - overly simplistic at times. I also felt that it had too many frivolous descriptions; I found myself skimming to find actions, feelings, and more dialogue. During the first half of the book, I was saying, \"I do not like this book at all,\" but as I read further, I discovered the value of it as a lesson to be learned about how one poor decision can be tremendously devastating to so many lives, and what a snowballing effect each action and reaction has. Perhaps the reality of the choices (<---B>of both the adults and the teenagers</---B>) as a sign of the times was too depressing for me! As another reviewer mentioned, I agree that this could be a useful book for a high school class discussion, but some teachers may have trouble getting through the first few pages in a classroom setting. I am usually a Shreve fan, but this one gets a three for plot; a one for style; hence, an average of two. ...more This was a bookclub read and would not be my usual choice in a book as I am not a fan of <---A>Anita Shreve</---A> and having read the blurb on this book thought the story sounded different and interesting. The story is about a sex scandal involving 3 boys and one 14yr old girl and is told from the prospective of all those involved and affected by this scandal. The opening few pages shocked me and I wondered how Shreve would handle the rest of the story how in depth she would go with her characters and their This was a bookclub read and would not be my usual choice in a book as I am not a fan of Anita Shreve and having read the blurb on this book thought the story sounded different and interesting. The story is about a sex scandal involving 3 boys and one 14yr old girl and is told from the prospective of all those involved and affected by this scandal. The opening few pages shocked me and I wondered how Shreve would handle the rest of the story how in depth she would go with her characters and their reasons for their actions. But unforunatly that is about as much impact this book had on me and I was so disappointed with the developments of this story. The story is told from several characters points of view and while I loved this idea I felt it did not work as Shreve's characters were never fully developed and as I thought I was getting to know one a little better it was on the next chapter and the next character and I was left feeling I needed more information. I think to be honest I never really cared about any of the characters to make me have any great love for the story. I wanted answers and never seemed to get them and felt the book fell short especially on the characters of Sienna and Mikes wife. On the plus side this novel really makes you think What If...... it was my daughter, my son, my neighbour how would I feel, how would I deal or cope with the situation, I kept thinking the whole way through the story that every action has a consequence and how you deal with the consequences can change the rest of you life and there is no going back. A very thought provoking novel and a great round the table bookclub discussion book but for me not a page turner and not enough character development and therefore a 3 star read. ...more I really looked forward to reading this book, but ended up being disappointed. I liked the plot, and I liked the idea of hearing the story from different characters' points of view, but ultimately I feel that the format caused a breakdown in the action and prevented the plot from clearly being executed. There were too many characters and descriptions that didn't do anything for the story, and too many parts that didn't fit. Two big points of contention for me were Mike and Anna's relationship, a I really looked forward to reading this book, but ended up being disappointed. I liked the plot, and I liked the idea of hearing the story from different characters' points of view, but ultimately I feel that the format caused a breakdown in the action and prevented the plot from clearly being executed. There were too many characters and descriptions that didn't do anything for the story, and too many parts that didn't fit. Two big points of contention for me were Mike and Anna's relationship, and the mystery of the cameraman. The affair between Mike and Anna felt out of place, and I think the format of the book is responsible. The individual testimonies didn't allow for the reader to sense that a relationship between Mike and Anna was developing, and for me it seemed kind of rushed and poorly explained. This was especially disappointing since the affair was the catalyst for Silas's actions. I also was disappointed because I felt that by the way characters kept wondering who the cameraman was, the identity of the cameraman was actually significant. Overall, I liked the story but I feel it would have been better served to be told in a traditional format. The separation of all the testimonies weakened the storyline and prevented me from really caring about the characters and what happened to them. ...more \"...I discover that it is possible to be angry with someone who has died. It is possible to believe that you will die from grief, that somehow your breathing will catch itself up and simply stop. It is possible to believe that you could have stopped the terrible thing that happened at any time, if only you had known. It is possible to wonder how [they]... could have done this to you, could have left you and not said good-bye.<---F> It is possible to know</---F>... that your life will never be the same again. \"...I discover that it is possible to be angry with someone who has died. It is possible to believe that you will die from grief, that somehow your breathing will catch itself up and simply stop. It is possible to believe that you could have stopped the terrible thing that happened at any time, if only you had known. It is possible to wonder how [they]... could have done this to you, could have left you and not said good-bye. It is possible to know... that your life will never be the same again. Never. No matter what anyone tells you.\" Antia Shreve's <+++>Testimony</+++> is a stunningly crafted book. A sex scandal, caught on tape, rocks a private school in Vermont; the consequences (arguably) resulting in the end of several marriages, the end of several futures, the end of a life, and more besides. Shreve captures many points of view from character directly or indirectly affected, using a mixture of 1st, 2nd and 3rd person that works exceptionally well. Each chapter is titled with the name of the person who offers their thoughts via a journal entry, a letter, a conversation etc - but each character is so well written with their own individual 'voice' that you will soon be able to instantly recognise who's who. Moving at a cracking pace in the manner of a thriller, <+++>Testimony</+++> is much more than a literary experiment; it's a fascinating, at times profoundly moving book that offers hope amongst the bleakness and beautiful and ugly shades of grey. ...more I made it to page 83 and in the middle of a random paragraph asked myself \"Why am I reading this?\" The writing style... flipping between characters and times... is a tad confusing. There are too many people involved, which meant I didn't give a flying leap about any of them. I suppose we're meant to feel sorry for some, but I didn't... There are too many GREAT books out there waiting for me to read them, so I'm not going to force myself to finish this one. For such a tragically pertinent issue in our society - sexual abuse &/ exploitation of vulnerable young women - this book sure missed its opportunity for profound contribution to the dialogue. We live in a terrifyingly brave new world for our hyper-sexualised young women. They are raised in a utterly sex-saturated culture, where women are now wrongly taught that objectification & promiscuity = female \"empowerment\". We blithely brush over the endangerment inherent in the new era of rampant For such a tragically pertinent issue in our society - sexual abuse &/ exploitation of vulnerable young women - this book sure missed its opportunity for profound contribution to the dialogue. We live in a terrifyingly brave new world for our hyper-sexualised young women. They are raised in a utterly sex-saturated culture, where women are now wrongly taught that objectification & promiscuity = female \"empowerment\". We blithely brush over the endangerment inherent in the new era of rampant, narcissistic social media and an epidemic of misogynistic pornography thrust on our young teens, and turn a blind eye to the havoc & destruction excess alcohol is wreaking across all sectors of society, but particularly in the lives of our young people. Then, the moment a vulnerable young lady finds herself in an exploitative situation, or worse - one of outright abuse! - we are quick to call \"she asked for it!\" Which is EXACTLY what Shreve's book does. Multiple testimonies of narrators, all contributing to the slut-shaming of \"Sienna\". Behold the tired, devastating, she-asked-for-it cliche rolled out once more to stomach-turning effect: She dressed too provocatively! She lied about being raped! She enjoyed it! She didn't say NO! She was drinking too much! She was out at night time alone! The sustained attempt, throughout this novel, to create empathy and sympathy for the three adult men involved in her exploitation galled me throughout: They were talented basketball players with such promising academic careers ahead of them! They were tempted by a temptress and they couldn't resist her tempting ways! I understand the author had a clear message here to impart about the stark dangers of underage alcohol consumption - and I do applaud her desire and attempt to do so! She's right, so sadly right; one moment of alcohol-fueled stupidity CAN and WILL lead to a life of regret, to ruination and destruction, to tragedy. However, I cannot stress enough how readily I felt this message got lost in all the slut-shaming and sympathizing with those good and talented boys who were led astray by that shameful, willing slut. Unfortunately, the cliche totally clouded the message. Alcohol has so much to answer for in the ruined lives of young people - yes! - but more culpable is the hypocritical culture in which they are raised. Sexuality shoved down their throats from the moment they can hold their baby heads up to see a objectifying beer ad. Mixed messages and double standards throughout their young lives - Women are sex objects! Women are equal to men! Women are temptresses! Women are in charge of their own powerful sexuality! Women are sluts if they ask for it too often and too readily! And yet we wave them off, unarmed, into the frighteningly fraught world of the hypersexualised adolescent with nary a moment of guilt re our own contribution to their vulnerability! Sheesh. Now, I must affirm, Anita Shreve is a highly rated author for me, and one I return to again and again. I won't let this book turn me off her excellent writing in future. I am just, personally, so very disappointed with the tone taken in this book. \"Sienna\" read neither as a real character nor a thoughtful, driving message to young people. She was, merely, a shallow, distressing cliche. And that will be what I remember most from this otherwise promising book. ...more I wasn't at all sure I was going to finish reading this book when I first started it. The idea of a graphic sex scandal involving a very young teen did not appeal to me. I hate reading about that stuff. I ordered it just because it was a new Anita Shreve, not even really paying attention or caring about the premise. This author always manages to draw me in with her writing, however, and this book was no exception. Within the first few chapters I was hooked and stayed that way. The graphic stuff I wasn't at all sure I was going to finish reading this book when I first started it. The idea of a graphic sex scandal involving a very young teen did not appeal to me. I hate reading about that stuff. I ordered it just because it was a new Anita Shreve, not even really paying attention or caring about the premise. This author always manages to draw me in with her writing, however, and this book was no exception. Within the first few chapters I was hooked and stayed that way. The graphic stuff is dealt with in the beginning and the rest of the book deals with the fallout. This isn't just a book about a boarding school sex scandal. It's a book which shows just how far-reaching the acts of an individual or individuals can be. Instead of one narrator, there is a myriad of them. Though that might seem confusing, it isn't. It is a brilliant way to get the point across that life's ripple effect is broad and repercussions may be incalcuable. It is a sad, sad book and not for what may seem the obvious reasons. Well worth the read. ...more This one's a definite sleep stealer. I stayed up until 3:30 a.m. to finish it, then couldn't get to sleep for thinking about it! It's quite a departure from Shreve's usual style and content, so give it a try even if you think you don't care for her work. The story revolves around some drunken sexual antics in a boarding school dorm room that are caught on video tape. Shreve uses a large number of voices or points of view, which has the potential to be cumbersome. I thought she handled it very def This one's a definite sleep stealer. I stayed up until 3:30 a.m. to finish it, then couldn't get to sleep for thinking about it! It's quite a departure from Shreve's usual style and content, so give it a try even if you think you don't care for her work. The story revolves around some drunken sexual antics in a boarding school dorm room that are caught on video tape. Shreve uses a large number of voices or points of view, which has the potential to be cumbersome. I thought she handled it very deftly, and the style works for this story. Taken as a whole, the book explores how different people view the same shameful event. Some are cavalier, some blame themselves, some want to blame others, and some just want to use scandal to further their own goals. Some people are able to pay for their mistakes and then move on with their lives, whereas others use this one misfortune to define the rest of their lives with regret and inaction. I found the conclusion very satisfying and plausible. ...more I had high hopes for such a compelling plot, but I was ultimately disappointed. The structure was appealing: chapters are the voices of alternating characters and members of the community touched by this prestigious high school sex scandal. This structure also created a building momentum, and I was waiting and waiting for bigger revelations, but the twists and turns were obvious, and in the places where the author had room to startle the reader, she just seemed to fall flat. I've read a few of Anita Shreve's novels and liked them. Testimony was no different. It's a very powerful story that grabs your attention from the beginning and keeps you hooked to the end. The beginning of the novel introduces us to a devastating videotape that involves two boys 18 years old, one boy 19 years old and a very young girl, aged 14. The tape shows them involved in very explicit sexual acts. They are all very clearly drunk. This tape ends up falling into the headmaster's hands and he I've read a few of Anita Shreve's novels and liked them. Testimony was no different. It's a very powerful story that grabs your attention from the beginning and keeps you hooked to the end. The beginning of the novel introduces us to a devastating videotape that involves two boys 18 years old, one boy 19 years old and a very young girl, aged 14. The tape shows them involved in very explicit sexual acts. They are all very clearly drunk. This tape ends up falling into the headmaster's hands and he scrambles to keep it contained within the Academy's walls. However, this doesn't happen and from that point on everything spirals out of control. The story is told in the form of testimony, hence the title of the book. This testimony comes from several different people from the man who sold alcohol to teens to the cafeteria staff and to those more intimately involved and finally on to those who committed the offense. The boys involved all played on the school basketball team and were all very talented. They were to go on to college. They all came from decent enough homes. So this brings us to the question of how does this kind of thing happen? Is it something inherently wrong with the boys? Is it their upbringing? Or, was it instigated by the young girl as there will always be people who question this? I felt of all the characters Silas truly felt disgusted with himself over what had happened. He couldn't come to terms with it. His mother Anna and something she does is really a catalyst for all that happens. Not that anything could justify these horrendous acts but it really goes to show us how one act in a person's life can have devastating effects on others and spiral into one disaster after another for so many others including themselves. I found one section in the book that has stayed with me so I'd like to share it... \"A single action can cause a life to veer off in a direction it was never meant to go. Falling in love can do that, you think. And so can a wild party. You marvel at the way each has the power to forever alter an individual's compass. And it is the knowing that such a thing can so easily happen, as you did not know before, not really, that has fundamentally changed you...\" ---page 277 The only complaint I would have with this novel is the way it was written in testimony. I didn't feel as if I really got to connect with anyone enough. That being said it is a gripping story and I read it quickly. Again, the story does contain sexual content and difficult subject matter so for some that may not be appealing. http://peekingbetweenthepages.blogspo... ...more What a page-turner! This whole story is told from multiple perspectives and each chapter is a different voice in this story. I loved how the chapters represented different emotions and told the story one step at a time using multiple voices. It was a great way to develop the characters. I was attached to many of them and deeply rooting for them, all the while knowing that it wasn't going to wrap up with a happy ending. Avery Academy is a private school in the outskirts of Vermont, gearing studen What a page-turner! This whole story is told from multiple perspectives and each chapter is a different voice in this story. I loved how the chapters represented different emotions and told the story one step at a time using multiple voices. It was a great way to develop the characters. I was attached to many of them and deeply rooting for them, all the while knowing that it wasn't going to wrap up with a happy ending. Avery Academy is a private school in the outskirts of Vermont, gearing students up for Ivy league colleges, and getting envy worthy careers in the world. One night, one decision changes the fate of every character and every student at Avery. Controversial subject: a sex tape is found on campus with multiple students from the basketball team, and a fourteen year old girl. The headmaster makes a quick decision on how to deal with this and the aftermath plays out in this novel. Marriages end, relationships sever, futures destroyed. Couldn't put this one down. ...more I was lucky enough to get a galley of this book, and I zipped right through it. It's likely inspired by the Duke Lacrosse scandal, as it revolves around a similar scandal at an upscale New Hampshire prep school. The chapters are told from the various points of view of the people involved, from the basketball players, parents, alleged victim, friends, and school administrators. The story moves very quickly and definitely makes the point that every story has multiple interpretations and how the ac I was lucky enough to get a galley of this book, and I zipped right through it. It's likely inspired by the Duke Lacrosse scandal, as it revolves around a similar scandal at an upscale New Hampshire prep school. The chapters are told from the various points of view of the people involved, from the basketball players, parents, alleged victim, friends, and school administrators. The story moves very quickly and definitely makes the point that every story has multiple interpretations and how the actions of the few can impact the many. I generally like Shreve's historical stories better than the contemporary ones, but I really did like this one. ...more Definitely just an ok read. It was quick. Margins were wide and lots of space between the lines. Some reviewer of a different book saw this as a sign that a book of little substance was somehow being made to appear larger. Surely applies to this book. The chapter format was annoying; too many changes from first person to narrator to whatever. The entire premise was bogus: two years after a some kids at a private school are caught up in a sex scandal, a researcher contacts various individuals who Definitely just an ok read. It was quick. Margins were wide and lots of space between the lines. Some reviewer of a different book saw this as a sign that a book of little substance was somehow being made to appear larger. Surely applies to this book. The chapter format was annoying; too many changes from first person to narrator to whatever. The entire premise was bogus: two years after a some kids at a private school are caught up in a sex scandal, a researcher contacts various individuals who had knowledge of the event and chronicals their take on the events leading up to and following the scandal. The only redeeming part of the book was the sobering message that your life, your future can turn on a dime, sometimes because of events that aren't even your fault and sometimes because they are your fault. ...more I am a sucker for a boarding school book. And this one has it all. Scandal, scandal, scandal. Great for a plane or a beach or anyone who can't resist snowy high school drama. Finished a while ago. I liked it. Very good, very readable, inherently depressing, ultimately satisfying. It is the first Anita Shreve I read and it was a book that travels. It landed at our place, left by a guest. So it was not a book I would normally buy and did not know what to expect. The private school sex scandal, starting the book in graphic detail almost had me put it down. It was not my kind of book at all. But then the story pulled me in. The different characters relate their involvement one by one in each chapter and although it was annoying in the beginning, it soon made sense. Although It is the first Anita Shreve I read and it was a book that travels. It landed at our place, left by a guest. So it was not a book I would normally buy and did not know what to expect. The private school sex scandal, starting the book in graphic detail almost had me put it down. It was not my kind of book at all. But then the story pulled me in. The different characters relate their involvement one by one in each chapter and although it was annoying in the beginning, it soon made sense. Although the taped sex scandal was the main issue in the book - who should be blamed, who was really guilty or innocent, it soon becomes clear that it was only the trigger that set off a multitude of 'endings' to pre-existing problems swirling around below the surface which ultimately results in death, divorce, and lost opportunities. It is really a remarkable book because at the end nobody could be found not-guilty. It is a brilliant constructed book about the effect one instant in time can destroy a lifetime afterwards and shook an entire community - not only one person. The reader is left with the question 'What would have happened if the egocentric J Dot did not want a tape of himself to upload to YouTube?' What a huge difference it would have made in so many lives! And Silas: how different would the outcome for him would have been if he responded differently to betrayal in his life. It counts for everyone involved. In the end I wanted to cry for them all. This book should change the mindset about prejudice, ignorance, and whatever inspires gossip to focus on one culprit instead of considering the complete picture. 'It doesn't matter how flat a pancake is, there's always two sides to it' - Dr. Phil. And the myth that there is always a good guy and a bad guy in a story is blown to pieces. You just won't find those goodies and baddies in this book however hard you try to succeed. Excellent book! ...more My first Anita Shreve book and I really enjoyed it and read in 36 hours. The book is a bit 'jerky' as it is told by a lot of different characters. What is fascinating is how a bit of bad behaviour spirals into catastrophe for a lot of people. I will definitely read more by her. In a small Vermont village, most-known for its private boarding school for the privileged children of the wealthy, and some who are there on scholarships, a scandal is brewing. We see the story unveiled, piece by piece, in the voices of the participants. First we learn of a tape, discovered by Mike Bordwin, the headmaster of Avery Academy. It is a sex tape and it reveals the activities of some of the best and brightest \u2013 along with the unfortunate appearance on the tape of a fourteen-year-old gir In a small Vermont village, most-known for its private boarding school for the privileged children of the wealthy, and some who are there on scholarships, a scandal is brewing. We see the story unveiled, piece by piece, in the voices of the participants. First we learn of a tape, discovered by Mike Bordwin, the headmaster of Avery Academy. It is a sex tape and it reveals the activities of some of the best and brightest \u2013 along with the unfortunate appearance on the tape of a fourteen-year-old girl \u2013 which makes the action unlawful in the state of Vermont. Next, we find Ellen, the mother of one of the boys, receiving a disturbing phone call, followed by a headlong rush to Avery, to learn more about her son\u2019s misdeeds. Over the next several chapters, the voices include the boys, the parents, the girl, the girl friend of one of the boys, the law enforcement officials, and even journalists and researchers \u2013 all eager to peek behind the scenes and uncover the antecedents to the behavior of these adolescents on one horrible night in January. In cleverly paced story-telling, the author peels back the layers until finally, at the very end, we see how the events began \u2013 or so it would seem \u2013 with one illicit action between two adults, which set a chain of subsequent events into play. Intriguing, suspenseful and haunting, this tale reveals how simple desire and need can lead to transgressions with consequences that seemingly unfold over the indefinite future. This book is Anita Shreve at her best. ...more I really enjoyed the book Testimony by Anita Shreve. Once I started reading I found it very hard to put down and finished it within 2 days. The story revolves around Avery Academy, a small private High School where a sex scandal involving the students was captured on video tape and has shocked the small community. A retelling of the events leading up to the tragic night told by many of those directly and indirectly involved. I was quite drawn in to the characters sadness and pain. I felt for the I really enjoyed the book Testimony by Anita Shreve. Once I started reading I found it very hard to put down and finished it within 2 days. The story revolves around Avery Academy, a small private High School where a sex scandal involving the students was captured on video tape and has shocked the small community. A retelling of the events leading up to the tragic night told by many of those directly and indirectly involved. I was quite drawn in to the characters sadness and pain. I felt for them as their mistakes and poor decisions drastically affected them and many others. A very well written and well paced book. I found it easy to keep up even though there were many characters with a variety of personalities. I found the characters very well developed and their voices added quite a lot to the book. This book shows how sometimes the decisions we make can alter and impact our lives as well as many others lives forever. Anita Shreve tells a truly interesting and compelling story that has stayed with me long since I finished the book. ...more I didn\u2019t appreciate the graphic sex, nor did I actually appreciate the fiction. I found myself wanting to read the police reports, court reports and pyschological profiles of the incidents and people who inspired this fiction book. Here is a quote from the book that I thought had merit. \u201cI held on to the story at the Globe for as long as it lasted. I received a Pulitzer for my work on it. I could go on and on about the ethics of accepting a prize for a sordid tale about alcohol abuse, sexual assau I didn\u2019t appreciate the graphic sex, nor did I actually appreciate the fiction. I found myself wanting to read the police reports, court reports and pyschological profiles of the incidents and people who inspired this fiction book. Here is a quote from the book that I thought had merit. \u201cI held on to the story at the Globe for as long as it lasted. I received a Pulitzer for my work on it. I could go on and on about the ethics of accepting a prize for a sordid tale about alcohol abuse, sexual assault, and privilege, but you take a look at any story that\u2019s won a prize in the last ten years, and you\u2019ll see that a lot of them are built on greed or lust or sex or murder. You tell yourself you\u2019re trying to go for a fair and responsible take - unlike the tabloids - but the truth is, we\u2019re all tabloids.\u201d ...more The first chapter is pretty graphic but you have to get through it to understand the rest of the book. The chapters are told from the perspective of different people involved in a sex scandal at a prep school in Vermont. You learn how this scandal affects people in different ways, and in the end you wonder how it could have been prevented. I think this would make parents think twice about shipping off their teenagers to a high school many miles away from home -- who's really watching them and ar The first chapter is pretty graphic but you have to get through it to understand the rest of the book. The chapters are told from the perspective of different people involved in a sex scandal at a prep school in Vermont. You learn how this scandal affects people in different ways, and in the end you wonder how it could have been prevented. I think this would make parents think twice about shipping off their teenagers to a high school many miles away from home -- who's really watching them and are they really mature enough to be on their own at ages 14-19? But then one of the students was not a \"boarder,\" he lived right there in town with his parents, yet that did not help him at all, as the story evolves. Very thought-provoking book and another winner by Shreve! ...more Testimony by Anita Shreve, which will be released on Oct. 21, was such a surprise in my mailbox from Hatchette Group's Miriam Parker. Thanks, Miriam! I met Anita Shreve at the 2002 National Book Festival signing in Washington, D.C. I've been in love with her writing since I first read The Pilot's Wife many years before that, and I will admit here that I've tried to emulate her style in my own writing, though my writing has not met muster. Testimony is one of those novels that slowly draws you int Testimony by Anita Shreve, which will be released on Oct. 21, was such a surprise in my mailbox from Hatchette Group's Miriam Parker. Thanks, Miriam! I met Anita Shreve at the 2002 National Book Festival signing in Washington, D.C. I've been in love with her writing since I first read The Pilot's Wife many years before that, and I will admit here that I've tried to emulate her style in my own writing, though my writing has not met muster. Testimony is one of those novels that slowly draws you into a prep school known as Avery Academy in Vermont where four boys and one girl make a decision that will change their lives and the lives of other students, teachers, administrators, families, and neighbors for years to come. Testimony is given throughout the novel from a number of characters--minor and major characters--illustrating the depth to which decisions of one or several people can impact others who are seemingly unconnected to the decision-makers. Jacqueline Barnard, a researcher from the University of Vermont, receives the interviews either in written form or through personal encounters with several of the characters. The videotape that surfaces in Avery Academy Headmaster Mike Bordwin's office is central to the story that unfolds in the novel, but another decision among a pair of adults also impacts the students and others in the town. Shreve is a master of character development and setting. I was drawn into the bitter cold winter snow of Vermont and the coziness of the town and the school, as well as the dark undercurrents in each of these characters' lives. Shreve is adept at highlighting the nuances of how underage sex and drinking affects the students, the faculty, and others, while not preaching to the reader. Silas and <---C>Noelle</---C>, two of the main adolescents in the novel, share a deep connection to one another at a tender age. It was tough to watch how this connection was tested and ultimately severed. Silas and his mother, Anna, also have a tight bond and naturally this connection is tested. Another adolescent boy, J. Dot and his bravado, serves as a foil to Silas' hard-working, compassionate, and dutiful persona. Noelle is the naive and romantic girl-next-door, while Sienna is the wild girl looking for trouble even if it is on a subconscious level. As always, Shreve has outdone herself in this novel, weaving a series of disjointed testimonies into a coherent and heart-wrenching story of love, loss, responsibility, and adolescence. I've often wondered if Shreve has ever tried her hand at poetry because the language she creates on the page paints a vivid image, and those images often conjure deeper meanings and emotions for the reader. ...more Opini\u00e3o: Um dos meus livros favoritos, lido em 2004 salvo erro, foi escrito pela m\u00e3o de Anita Shreve. \u201cA Praia do Destino\u201d traduz uma vis\u00e3o \u00fanica da condi\u00e7\u00e3o humana e derruba barreiras quanto a quest\u00f5es regidas pela moral do senso comum. Um caso entre uma jovem de quinze anos e um m\u00e9dico de quarenta e um, ainda por cima casado, ainda por cima em 1899, \u00e9 um desses casos de moral indiscut\u00edvel. Mas a autora conseguiu promover um debate a fazer da humanidade e das circunst\u00e2ncias, e foi isso que me c Opini\u00e3o: Um dos meus livros favoritos, lido em 2004 salvo erro, foi escrito pela m\u00e3o de Anita Shreve. \u201cA Praia do Destino\u201d traduz uma vis\u00e3o \u00fanica da condi\u00e7\u00e3o humana e derruba barreiras quanto a quest\u00f5es regidas pela moral do senso comum. Um caso entre uma jovem de quinze anos e um m\u00e9dico de quarenta e um, ainda por cima casado, ainda por cima em 1899, \u00e9 um desses casos de moral indiscut\u00edvel. Mas a autora conseguiu promover um debate a fazer da humanidade e das circunst\u00e2ncias, e foi isso que me comoveu e me rendeu nessa leitura. Um v\u00eddeo onde uma rapariga de catorze anos (por Deus, a minha irm\u00e3 tem treze!), sexualmente experiente e madura, tem rela\u00e7\u00f5es com tr\u00eas rapazes de dezoito e dezanove anos cai tamb\u00e9m na condena\u00e7\u00e3o moral do senso comum. Uma cassete chega \u00e0 posse do director da reputada Academia de Avery, no Vermont, onde a natureza dos actos registados constitui um crime. Acusados de abuso sexual, os tr\u00eas rapazes enfrentam a justi\u00e7a, os pais e a pr\u00f3pria consci\u00eancia. Trouxe este livro para It\u00e1lia com esperan\u00e7a de fazer rend\u00ea-lo mas, apesar de ter dormido apenas tr\u00eas horas esta noite, o apelo durante o voo suplantou o cansa\u00e7o e li as \u00faltimas cem p\u00e1ginas de enfiada. A abordagem da autora \u00e9 \u00fanica; cada um dos muitos envolvidos vai-se pronunciando a respeito do caso, e com estes recortes constitui um recorte alargado das consequ\u00eancias daquele \u201cdeslize\u201d para toda a gente. Cada personagem tem uma voz \u00fanica, de in\u00edcio pode parecer que s\u00e3o muitas personagens, mas os cap\u00edtulos s\u00e3o curtos e fui apontando os nomes dos envolvidos, dos pais, do director, do director que veio substitu\u00ed-lo, da empregada do refeit\u00f3rio, do jornalista, da enfermeira, do xerife da cidade, etc. Cada relato \u00e9 multidimensional, proferido em tom pessoal, e ajuda a compor os acontecimentos da noite de 21 de Janeiro em Avery, e tamb\u00e9m as consequ\u00eancias que da\u00ed advieram e os motivos que levaram a esse desfecho. Afinal, falamos de dois casamentos afundados, um desgastado, uma morte, v\u00e1rias demiss\u00f5es, dois jovens com futuros promissores expulsos, um caso amoroso tr\u00e1gico e uma s\u00e9rie de acasos inofensivos que, conjugados, culminam numa cat\u00e1strofe. \u00c9 precisamente isto que aprecio na Shreve; como o aparente \u201cpouco\u201d pesa tanto consoante as circunst\u00e2ncias. Com esta aurora h\u00e1 sempre um cair das m\u00e1scaras, um cavar mais fundo, um silenciar de coisas importantes, um deduzir, um calcular, um falhar. Adorei o modo como a autora conduziu o livro e as conclus\u00f5es que dele tiramos; n\u00e3o h\u00e1 inocentes nem culpados, s\u00e3o todos v\u00edtimas das circunst\u00e2ncias e, quase no fim, quis chorar. Ela faz-me sempre isto; chorei a ler \u201cA Praia do Destino\u201d, chorei a ler \u201cA Casa na Praia\u201d, chorei pr\u00f3ximo do fim do \u201cCasamento em Dezembro\u201d, e choraria certamente neste n\u00e3o fosse o casal brit\u00e2nico a meu lado no avi\u00e3o. ...more I read this book at my sister's insistence, partially because she felt that the way the story was told amounted to little more that victim blaming and rape culture. Now, having read the book, I understand why she felt that way, but I also see more to it than that. The why? That's easy. There's a video with a bunch of guys (18-19) fooling around with a 14-year-old, and the first thing that the headmaster of the school says upon viewing it is that it looked like the girl knew what she was doing. T I read this book at my sister's insistence, partially because she felt that the way the story was told amounted to little more that victim blaming and rape culture. Now, having read the book, I understand why she felt that way, but I also see more to it than that. The why? That's easy. There's a video with a bunch of guys (18-19) fooling around with a 14-year-old, and the first thing that the headmaster of the school says upon viewing it is that it looked like the girl knew what she was doing. This novel is told from the perspective of many other people - the boys, their parents, the girl...now known as Sienna..., her then roommate, etc. They're all either speaking to, writing to, or thinking about the situation that happened at Avery Academy a few years before because of a letter they received from a researcher from UVM who is studying the affects of alcohol on boy's behavior in secondary schools. There's only one person who is allowed to speak and voice a perspective in keeping with Sienna's story, namely Sienna herself. There are several people who offer a semi different perspective, but a few who clearly feel like the boys were wronged. The problem is that Sienna is portrayed like a liar and as someone who is less than intelligent. The only \"saving\" grace for me is that the multitude of voices that in some ways contradict one another only serve to point out how biased they are, that there's a problem with most of their perspectives. The only character who seems to offer a bit of hope is Robert, one of the boys who was charged for the incident. I wasn't expecting his letter to sound the way it did, but it was the best part in my opinion, other than the fact that it was incredibly addictive writing. I really couldn't put it down, even when I was uncomfortable with the way the story was portrayed, which I think says a lot. ...more Provocative topic, excellent reminder of why teenage acts can have such devastating consequences - they have no sense of perspective yet - they haven't lived long enough to understand they can move past something. Quick read and interesting development of story through the eyes of many players. However, characters and relationships are a little too good and a little too bad to not be a little annoying / unbelievable. One annoying criticism is that a central piece of suspense throughout the book Provocative topic, excellent reminder of why teenage acts can have such devastating consequences - they have no sense of perspective yet - they haven't lived long enough to understand they can move past something. Quick read and interesting development of story through the eyes of many players. However, characters and relationships are a little too good and a little too bad to not be a little annoying / unbelievable. One annoying criticism is that a central piece of suspense throughout the book is finally resolved with a really bland, inconsequential explanation. Why keep us in suspense if it doesn't really even matter to the main plot? And no Anita Shreve book would be complete without some middle-aged (usually married) woman removing her clothing for a (usually married) man in their first intimate encounter. What happened to kissing first, then taking off the clothing? Am I the only one who does that? Upon subsequent reflection, it was also odd that they made a big deal about the supposedly illegally obtained signed confessions and the \"cover-up\" by the school. She never ended up pursuing that thread so it was somewhat misleading to be in there at all... ...more I found this book profoundly unsettling, as a mom, and a past wild child/boarding school attendee. There is a passage where a mother ponders \"The Phone Call\" and as a mother how every day you wait for the phone call, and you worry, and you wonder, what is it going to be, and am I going to be the lucky one that never receives the phone call, that never meets the police at her door in the dead of night. It reduced me to tears and cost me some sleep. That said I think that this book also touches on I found this book profoundly unsettling, as a mom, and a past wild child/boarding school attendee. There is a passage where a mother ponders \"The Phone Call\" and as a mother how every day you wait for the phone call, and you worry, and you wonder, what is it going to be, and am I going to be the lucky one that never receives the phone call, that never meets the police at her door in the dead of night. It reduced me to tears and cost me some sleep. That said I think that this book also touches on an issue that our country needs to confront head on, sooner rather than later: when are kids just being kids, and when is it something more/worse? Is \"sexting\" between mutally agreeing minors child pornography? Is a kindergartner hugging another one \"sexual harrassment\"? Is consensual sex between a 15 yr old and an 18 yr old who are dating and in love prosecutable? Times change and change back and the law is often slow to compensate. This book was powerfully written, I enjoyed it tremendously. ...more This is one of the saddest, most disturbing books I have ever read. My stomach was in knots most of the way through, yet I am glad I read it and I hope you will read it, too. I don't want to discuss the plot or the writing, I only want to say I don't think I'll ever forget the story, and I want to share a couple of quotes that twisted my heart and took my breath: \"... and you'll remember, and it'll catch you up, and you'll realize how fast, how fast, a life can get all twisted around.\" \"A single a This is one of the saddest, most disturbing books I have ever read. My stomach was in knots most of the way through, yet I am glad I read it and I hope you will read it, too. I don't want to discuss the plot or the writing, I only want to say I don't think I'll ever forget the story, and I want to share a couple of quotes that twisted my heart and took my breath: \"... and you'll remember, and it'll catch you up, and you'll realize how fast, how fast, a life can get all twisted around.\" \"A single action can cause a life to veer off in a direction it was never meant to go.\" Bravo, Ms. Shreve. ...more The premise of this book was disturbing enough on its own. Add in Shreve's decision to tell the story through the varying points of view of the key players, and this book was down-right troublesome. A powerfully written book showing how selfish decisions can be extremely far reaching with inconceivable consequences. Sometimes timing is everything. I really liked this book. It held my interest and was a definite page-turner. I wanted to know what happened and why. The skanky headmaster....wanted to slap him silly! I was glad to see that Rob is going to be OK in the end. I can see this as a Lifetime movie, like The Pilot's Wife. Added to my review on Booktopia: I checked out Testimony three times and had to take it back unread twice before I finally had time to sit and read it. It is, however, a quick read. I Sometimes timing is everything. I really liked this book. It held my interest and was a definite page-turner. I wanted to know what happened and why. The skanky headmaster....wanted to slap him silly! I was glad to see that Rob is going to be OK in the end. I can see this as a Lifetime movie, like The Pilot's Wife. Added to my review on Booktopia: I checked out Testimony three times and had to take it back unread twice before I finally had time to sit and read it. It is, however, a quick read. I read it in one evening. The approach was pretty unique and, for me, it worked. I know it hasn't for some folks, however. At a boarding school in Vermont, a sex \"party\" is taped. The story unfolds with first or third person perspective from various folks, some directly involved and some not as much. The frame is that a researcher is doing a study two years after the incident, although the researcher isn't actually part of the story. In some of the chapters, it's first person with the person speaking directly to the researcher in one-on-one interviews. In others, it's third person. I rated the book pretty highly, five stars on Goodreads. It was definitely a page turner. I did have trouble sometimes remembering who people were and the role they played in the story. Also, I disagree with her perspective that this would be as big news as Shreve seems to think it would be. Sure, regionally. It would get a blip nationally but not in the terms she said in the book. 10 days running nationally? Nah. Not the incident itself, although I can see the death might elevate it to that. But not a town under siege as she described, imo. And I am a former reporter. She downplays how elite the school is, as if it's struggling. So, no, not that much media attention, imo, except regionally. I didn't like the headmaster and I suppose we weren't meant to. His weakness is what led to much of what happened - Silas' involvement and his attempted coverup. I think part of the message of the book is how our missteps affect others and have unintended consequences. I fully expected the headmaster to kill himself, but that didn't happen. Also, it has been noted in some forums that Shreve frequently makes adultery a theme in her writing and I have wondered about her personal life, if there is a reason for that. I think she oftens portrays adultery in a more sympathetic light than she did in this one. For which I'm glad. ...more Da Anita Shreve, li h\u00e1 alguns anos o livro A Praia do Destino , que me lembro de ter gostado imenso. Entretanto, comprei outros dela, mas a oportunidade de voltar a ler algo de sua autoria s\u00f3 surgiu agora com este Testemunho . Testemunho cont\u00e9m precisamente uma s\u00e9rie de testemunhos de v\u00e1rias pessoas envolvidos com um caso que escandalizou a Am\u00e9rica, fict\u00edcio mas facilmente tornado veros\u00edmil face aos casos que sucedem naquele pa\u00eds t\u00e3o vasto. Num col\u00e9gio interno, supostamente com alunos mais seleccio Da Anita Shreve, li h\u00e1 alguns anos o livro A Praia do Destino , que me lembro de ter gostado imenso. Entretanto, comprei outros dela, mas a oportunidade de voltar a ler algo de sua autoria s\u00f3 surgiu agora com este Testemunho . Testemunho cont\u00e9m precisamente uma s\u00e9rie de testemunhos de v\u00e1rias pessoas envolvidos com um caso que escandalizou a Am\u00e9rica, fict\u00edcio mas facilmente tornado veros\u00edmil face aos casos que sucedem naquele pa\u00eds t\u00e3o vasto. Num col\u00e9gio interno, supostamente com alunos mais seleccionados, \u00e9 encontrada uma grava\u00e7\u00e3o que resulta de uma noite de excessos entre tr\u00eas rapazes e uma rapariga menor, que acabam por se envolver sexualmente. Cada cap\u00edtulo do livro cont\u00e9m o relato de uma das personagens envolvidas, cada um deles um pe\u00e7a que acaba por comp\u00f4r o puzzle final. Dada a variedade das personagens envolvidas, o tom do livro varia imenso, mas penso que a autora conseguiu bem dar uma voz \u00fanica a cada uma delas e torn\u00e1-las mais \u201cvivas\u201d perante o leitor. Esta variedade de perspectivas contribui tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o s\u00f3 para tornar a leitura mais din\u00e2mica e absorvente, como para ajudar o leitor a formar as suas pr\u00f3prias conclus\u00f5es ao ter a oportunidade para olhar para todos os lados da barricada. Este foi um livro que li num \u00e1pice, porque a hist\u00f3ria me interessou e porque considero que a autora foi bem sucedida em contar a hist\u00f3ria que queria contar. O meu \u00fanico problema com este livro foi que nunca considerei esta hist\u00f3ria chocante ou propriamente escandalosa. Estas caracter\u00edsticas, que a autora tenta transmitir face \u00e0 ocorr\u00eancia relatada, s\u00e3o, suponho eu, fruto de algum puritanismo que todos sabemos estar presente na sociedade americana. N\u00e3o quero com isto dizer que considero a situa\u00e7\u00e3o descrita no livro \u201cnormal\u201d, mas n\u00e3o duvido que uma coisa destas n\u00e3o teria as mesmas repercuss\u00f5es numa sociedade com uma mentalidade mais \u201caberta\u201d. Independentemente disso, gostei bastante do livro e recomendo. ...more", "Title": "Testimony"},
