{"Comments": "\"When we say...that pleasure is the end and aim of life, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do by some through ignorance, prejudice, or willful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry,<---M> not by sexual lust</---M>, nor the enjoyment of fish and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; i \"When we say...that pleasure is the end and aim of life, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do by some through ignorance, prejudice, or willful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul.\" ---Epicurus I haven't read a book in a long time that has introduced me to so many historical figures to admire. Some of that is born out of my own ignorance, but the wonderful thing about ignorance is I have the means to dismiss it. I have heard of Hypatia and last year even watched a movie based on her life called Agora starring the lovely Rachel Weisz. I have brushed up against Epicurus and Lucretius, but they are mere footnotes on other files logged sporadically in the dim halls of my memories. Epicurus Lucretius I had no reference to tell me what colossal figures they are, bearing brilliant ideas that give footing to my own paltry concepts of my own life philosophy. If I were to dig out my time machine that I was tinkering with way back during a Stephen King review http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... and decide to take a trip back to 1417; invariably, as we know despite my best efforts something would go wrong and I would be stuck there. I could only hope I could find Poggio Bracciolini and tag along with him as he \"became a midwife to modernity\".<---F> Poggio in 1417 finds himself unemployed</---F>. Most recently he had been Apostolic Scriptor for the pope. His boss had been defrocked and thrown in jail and given the circumstances had no more need of his services. Poggio short on funds, but long on bibliophilic desire is searching for lost books. He is a charmer and he has to be to convince monks to allow him to poke among the dusty remains of ancient texts in their libraries. Luckily there was a time when Christians were curious about the world beyond the bible and had copied and preserved even those texts that they found to be contrary to their own beliefs. That time is past and in the 1400s those texts had not been recopied and were vulnerable to bugs, damp, and abuse. Poggio in one such monastery finds a book that was so dangerous that it had been nearly eradicated. On the Nature of Things by Lucretius expounded the views of Epicurus in an epic poem so lovely that even St. Jerome despite it's views so counter to his struggling beliefs could not resist reading it. If the monastery had really know what it was and that they were the protectorate of such a book I'm sure they would have used it to light a hot fire under the next heretic. To give you an example of where Christian thinking was at the time. Saint Benedict wandering along a path thinking pious thoughts one day suddenly had the image of a desirable woman intrude upon his heavenly internal discourse and found himself aroused . Oh my what to do what to do. He then noticed a thick patch of nettles and briers next to him. Throwing his garment aside he flung himself into the sharp thorns and stinging nettles. There he rolled and tossed until his whole body was in pain and covered with blood. Yet, once he had conquered pleasure through suffering, his torn and bleeding skin served to drain the poison of temptation from his body. Before long, the pain that was burning his whole body had put out the fires of evil in his heart. It was by exchanging these two fires that he gained the victory over sin. In one of the great cultural transformations in the history of the West, the pursuit of pain triumphed over the pursuit of pleasure. It leaves little doubt why women get such a bad shake in Christian religion given that the natural desire that a man may feel for a woman is considered EVIL . Let's see the Epicurean table is right over there excuse me. I'm with those guys. The Way Things Are. If you are like me and have not read Lucretius do not let that keep you from reading this book. Greenblatt provides a list of the principle components addressed in the book with further explanation than what I'm providing in this review. *Everything is made of invisible particles. *The elementary particles of matter-\"the seeds of things\"-are eternal. *The elementary particles are infinite in number but limited in shape and size. *All particles are in motion in an infinite void. *Everything comes into being as a result of the swerve. *Nature ceaselessly experiments. *The universe was not created for or about humans. *Humans are not unique. *Human society began not in a Golden Age of tranquility and plenty, but in a primitive battle for survival. *The soul dies...(ehh gads that will get you a quick trip to the flaming wood pile.) *There is no afterlife...(they can only burn you once.) *Death is nothing to us. *All organized religions are superstitious delusions. *Religions are invariably cruel. *There are no angels, demons, or ghosts. *The highest goal of human life is the enhancement of pleasure and the reduction of pain. (avoid nettles and briers for example.) *The greatest obstacle to pleasure is not pain; it is delusion. *Understanding the nature of things generates deep wonder. Now after skimming this list either you are looking for the dislike button, which luckily for us poor reviewers is not available, or you are intrigued and want to read more. I would suggest that even if you do find some of the ideas on this list abhorrent still read this book. My brain was churning like a frozen Margarita mixer in a Mexican bar on a Friday night while reading this book. It is okay to read about things that you disagree with. It is okay to doubt your beliefs or reformat your thoughts or even change your mind. My father-in-law, Texas Baptist, refused to read The Da Vinci Code , but he called my wife to ask her what it was about. His beliefs are obviously so fragile he cannot take the chance that a fiction writer of dubious talent might create doubt. I had sticky notes stuck to other sticky notes filled with sketchy bits of my handwriting (Poggio would be appalled at the state of my handwriting.) with wonderful quotes that I had fully intended to share with my goodreads friends, but the book is only 263 pages and I literally had notes for nearly every page that would have ballooned this review beyond anybody's patience level. Besides you are going to read this book right? Poggio Bracciolini I'm going to end with a book curse that Greenblatt shared that I intend to tuck into every book I lend out to \"friends\" from now on. For him that stealeth, or borroweth and returneth not, this book from its owner let it change into a serpent in his hand and rend him. Let him be struck with palsy, and all his members blasted. Let him languish in pain crying aloud for mercy, and let there be no surcease to his agony till he sing in dissolution. Let bookworms gnaw his entrails in token of the Worm that dieth not, and when at last he goeth to his final punishment, let the flames of Hell consume him forever. That ought to get their attention. I leave you fair friends to return to my ivory tower, the walls thick with books, a Royals baseball game playing in the background. My pursuit of pleasure has begun. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more The Anti-Climactic Swerve Greenblatt is a good story-teller and delivers good entertainment value here, but not much informative or educational value, except as an enticing short introductory to Lucretius , Bruno and Montaigne . As Greenblatt acknowledges, there is no single explanation for the emergence of the Renaissance and the release of the forces that have shaped our own world. Despite this awareness, he has tried to trace out The Swerve - \u201c of how the world swerved in a new direction \u201d by tel The Anti-Climactic Swerve Greenblatt is a good story-teller and delivers good entertainment value here, but not much informative or educational value, except as an enticing short introductory to Lucretius , Bruno and Montaigne . As Greenblatt acknowledges, there is no single explanation for the emergence of the Renaissance and the release of the forces that have shaped our own world. Despite this awareness, he has tried to trace out The Swerve - \u201c of how the world swerved in a new direction \u201d by telling a little known but exemplary Renaissance story - the story of Poggio Bracciolini \u2019s recovery of Lucretius\u2019s poem, \u2018 On the Nature of Things \u2019 ( De rerum natura ). This one poem by itself was certainly not responsible for an entire intellectual, moral, and social transformation\u2014no single work was. But, Greenblatt tells us, this particular ancient book, suddenly returning to view, made a difference. Majority of the book is given over to the \u2018dramatic\u2019 search for old documents, by a Poggio who suddenly found himself with a lot of free time. But, to me, that is not the \u2018enlightenment\u2019. The enlightenment is what followed afterwards. Of course, these book-hunters deserve to be lionized for their sacrifice and great service, but they were pursuing an obsession and most of them never played with the ball tossed by the ideas they uncovered. To me the really exciting part of renaissance is what happened once these millennia old, forgotten, but radical ideas were injected into a culture that was held to the whip by militant power-hungry Christianity \u2014 liberating humanity from the crushing weight of being the center of the universe, the human mind from the chains of the fear of a future torment that is bound to follow any original thought (original = blasphemous). That is when the real alchemy happened - when different brilliant thinkers tried hard to reconcile their fervent theology to the irresistible intellectual and poetic force of the ancient arguments; when the few truly free thinkers found the best sort of patrons, the ancients, to support their cause; and when all these elements reacted against each other and created something new and wonderful - just like Lucretius\u2019s reviled atoms. That is the truly exciting story. That is only touched on by Greenblatt, after spending 4/5 th of the book on Poggio\u2019s quest, then towards the end, we are given a sneak peak on how various thinkers reacted, of the spectacular beauty of a larger cultural movement that included Alberti, Michelangelo, and Raphael, Ariosto, Montaigne, and Cervantes, along with dozens of other artists and writers. Some of the ideas touched upon include (in loosely chronological fashion, listed here to redeem the book by highlighting the best parts): - Lorenzo Valla \u2019s early reaction through On Pleasure ( De voluptate ), an early, highly noncommittal dialogue dealing with the Epicurean ideas. - Thomas More\u2019s Utopia - which tried very hard to integrate the Epicurean ideas into a society of equality and communism, even as Moore kept them grounded on firm Christian principles. - The diminutive Dominican monk , Giordano Bruno , who was turned into one of the boldest thinkers on the touch of Lucretius\u2019s poetry. Bruno was perhaps the first real intellectual successor to Epicurus and Lucretius, the one who truly took the ball and ran the full distance and dared to assert a new and dangerous world view (Bruno is only one example of much intellectual activity that erupted, out of which most kept silent, unlike Bruno). - Machiavelli\u2019s formulations, which could arguably be said to have touched the feared extremes of the philosophy. - Copernicus, and others, who got support from all this intellectual ferment to explore new boundaries and push human understanding. - Others like Galileo, who could then go further, even if timidly. - To pave the way for Descartes, Newton\u2026 and so on and so forth, the illustrious list extends to our day. And even in the arts, the explosion was evident, with Cosimo, Da Vinci, Botticelli, etc., to Montaigne and others, and soon through Bruno\u2019s visit to England, Spencer, Donne, Bacon, and eventually Shakespeare (who was a friend of a friend of Bruno\u2019s!) and Ben Johnson (who had a copy of Lucretius). Soon, the printing press made these irresistible ideas even more irrepressible, until they were everywhere, just like the original atoms. Until, through Jefferson, traces of Epicureanism was embedded in the very constitution of the next great democracy that emerged, in the Declaration of Independence - The Pursuit of Happiness . How splendid would that intellectual history be, if presented in its full richness and anxiety, with all the various threads and many tensions given stage space! I know there are other books that explore this explosion and the dance of magnificent ideas, but I really felt let down that the story closed just before the drama began. Bit of an anti-climax. This richly researched biography of probably the most important book-hunter in history is not a must-read or an indispensable book. The best result would be an increased curiosity for the great works that enliven its pages. ...more This review has been revised and can now be seen at Shelf Inflicted (a Group Blog). Changed my life forever, did this book. But for the pagans... pain was understood not as a positive value, a stepping stone to salvation, as it was by pious Christians intent on whipping themselves, but as an evil, something visited upon rulebreakers, criminals, captives, unfortunate wretches, and - the only category with dignity - soldiers. ... I went into this book convinced I was going to hate it. I mean, have you read the blurb!?!?! The back of my book says: From the gardens of ancient Rome to the chambers of monastic scriptoria, ren But for the pagans... pain was understood not as a positive value, a stepping stone to salvation, as it was by pious Christians intent on whipping themselves, but as an evil, something visited upon rulebreakers, criminals, captives, unfortunate wretches, and - the only category with dignity - soldiers. ... I went into this book convinced I was going to hate it. I mean, have you read the blurb!?!?! The back of my book says: From the gardens of ancient Rome to the chambers of monastic scriptoria, renowned scholar <---A>Stephen Greenblatt</---A> brings the past to vivid life in this exploration of one of the most influential works of literature of all time. In the winter of 1417, an unemployed papal secretary turned book hunter named Poggio Bracciolini discovered a copy of Lucretius's On the Nature of Things in a remote monastery. The story of how this astonishing poem would cause the world to swerve in a new direction is at once a supreme work of scholarship, a literary page-turner, and a thrilling testament to the power of the written word. What a mealy-mouthed bunch of bullshit. Can you make heads or tails out of what this book is about from reading this!?!? No, you can't. National Book Award Winner, Pulitzer Prize Winner, my foot! *takes deep breath* However, the book actually isn't as terrible as you'd gather from first glance. What happened is this: Greenblatt buys a book for 10 cents out of a bin. Instead of writing a rapturous GR review of it like any normal person would (LOL) he decides that a.) the book is responsible for changing the world and making the world modern and b.) he's going to write an entire 263-page book on the subject. This book celebrates and promotes atheism and atheist ideas and portrays the Catholic Church as greedy, corrupt, and hypocritical. That part I rather enjoyed. I think the best chapters are \"The Teeth of Time\" which discusses pagans vs. Christians and pagan ideals vs. Christian ideals; and \"The Way Things Are\" which is an excellent breakdown of Lucretius's atheist manifesto. Unfortunately, these fascinating chapters filled with thoughts and ideas are interspersed with mind-numbingly boring chapters, which detail the intricacies of the lives of Poggio and Pope John XXIII. I didn't care. I didn't care one bit. A tiny bit of interest came when Greenblatt discussed bookworms and how fragile books were, also how hard a person had to work to create a book back in the 13th century. Wow. I want to once again thank Bi Sheng and also Johannes Gutenberg for their marvelous inventions. Overall, what am I going to get from this book? A promotion and dissertation of atheist ideals and morals makes up the best chapter, \"The Way Things Are.\" You are also going to learn some fascinating things about book creation and how the Catholic Church was a wretched hive of scum and villainy. However, as a fair warning, a lot of this book might leave you bored and frustrated. Since my expectations were at zero, I was pleasantly surprised - I can't promise you the same experience. ...more A dubious thesis propped up by selective evidence and punctuated by digressions that were often only tenuously connected to the book's argument. Greenblatt massively overstates Epicurean philosophy's significance in the ancient world and his bold claims for the influence of Lucretius' poem in the Renaissance are rarely supported by the evidence he presents to any sufficient degree. Worst of all is his bizarre caricatures of the Medieval period - he doesn't seem to know the Twelfth Century reviv A dubious thesis propped up by selective evidence and punctuated by digressions that were often only tenuously connected to the book's argument. Greenblatt massively overstates Epicurean philosophy's significance in the ancient world and his bold claims for the influence of Lucretius' poem in the Renaissance are rarely supported by the evidence he presents to any sufficient degree. Worst of all is his bizarre caricatures of the Medieval period - he doesn't seem to know the Twelfth Century revival ever happened and universities get one passing mention, though the worst aspects of monasticism get repeated emphasis and flagellation gets pages of loving detail. And his claims Christianity somehow suppressed Lucretius' poem are undermined by his underplayed references to various medieval manuscripts of the poem (though these are often tucked away in footnotes). For an institution trying to \"destroy\" this poem, the Medieval church sure went about it in a strange way. Greenblatt is an expert in literature rather than history, and it shows. The fact this book won a Pulitzer says something about a triumph of style and marketing over substance and basic fact checking. A book that actively distorts history is not a good history book. ...more Usually five stars is my rating for a classic I read that was everything I hoped it would be. Nonfiction only gets five stars if it's very special. Once or twice a year. This book is great. It's a microhistory; that's a book that takes a little niche in history, and generally uses that niche to jump around and explore a bunch of different eras through a specific lens. Salt is a great example, although not a great book. This book uses Lucretius' 50 BCE The Nature of Things as its lens, and it jump Usually five stars is my rating for a classic I read that was everything I hoped it would be. Nonfiction only gets five stars if it's very special. Once or twice a year. This book is great. It's a microhistory; that's a book that takes a little niche in history, and generally uses that niche to jump around and explore a bunch of different eras through a specific lens. Salt is a great example, although not a great book. This book uses Lucretius' 50 BCE The Nature of Things as its lens, and it jumps from Roman times to the Renaissance. Microhistories can be dangerous; at their worst, they're pointless collections of trivia. But at their best, they tie history together in a nice way. I think they're better if you're got a fair handle on history already, so that the threads these books pick up on are ones you're familiar with. It helps you decide whether you think the author's trying too hard, and it's also just really fun to see the book reference something you already know something about. In Swerve, for example, Greenblatt briefly points out how Giordano Bruno was influenced by Lucretius. I read a book about that dude once, so it's neat to just get the reference, plus I'm confident that the connection is valid. (Both had somehow come to the conclusion that if there's our world, there are probably others, and some of them probably also contain life. Milton figured it out too. ) Greenblatt manages to really bring out the excitement in what's a tremendously important and smart work, but also a difficult one to penetrate. Nature of Things is one of the weirdest epic poems I've ever read. It's a proto-atheist work, so it's important to me, and Greenblatt gave me a way into it; without his context, explanation and enthusiasm, it would have been much harder for me to understand what Lucretius was banging on about. If one judges a book, particularly a nonfiction one, by the number of marks one's made in it, this is a five-star book. And I do, so it is. Swerve brings what it offers. ...more I think Stephen Greenblatt is a tremendously intelligent man, and a gifted writer. I also think 'The Swerve: How the Renaissance began' is frightfully oversold by its title and blurb. One of the world's most celebrated scholars, Stephen Greenblatt has crafted an innovative work of history and a thrilling story of discovery, in which one manuscript, plucked from a thousand years of neglect, changed the course of human thought and made possible the world as we know it. ... The copying and translation I think Stephen Greenblatt is a tremendously intelligent man, and a gifted writer. I also think 'The Swerve: How the Renaissance began' is frightfully oversold by its title and blurb. One of the world's most celebrated scholars, Stephen Greenblatt has crafted an innovative work of history and a thrilling story of discovery, in which one manuscript, plucked from a thousand years of neglect, changed the course of human thought and made possible the world as we know it. ... The copying and translation of this ancient book, the greatest discovery of the greatest book-hunter of his age, fuelled the Renaissance, inspiring artists such as Botticelli and thinkers such as Girodano Bruno; shaped the thought of Galileo and Freud, Darwin and Einstein; and had revolutionary influence on writers from Montaigne to Thomas Jefferson. I'm not arguing against the importance of the manuscript, Lucretius's poem On the Nature of Things, a discourse on Epicurean philosophy that includes some startling statements and insights. Everything is made of invisible, eternal particles, that are in motion in an infinite void. This particles don't travel in straight and predictable lines - instead, they 'swerve' (are miniscule but unpredictable deflection that sets up a random and significant chain of collisions, from which arise everything). The swerve is the source of free will. Humans are not unique, the centre of the universe, or endowed with an eternal soul. Death is nothing, and should be neither sought out nor feared. Religions are superstitious delusion. The highest goal of a life is to seek the enhancement of pleasure and reduction of pain: the greatest obstacle to pleasure is not pain - it delusion. And finally: 'understanding the nature of things generates deep wonder'. My beef with this book is that I never achieved deep wonder. The points above are ticked of in less than 15 pages. In 266 pages (followed by 85 pages of end notes, bibliography and index, and prefaced by a less than endearing introduction where Greenblatt describes himself as being blown away as a teenager by Lucretius's (notoriously difficult) poem), Greenblatt gives us: - a primer on the creation and survival of papyrus scrolls and illuminated manuscripts - a speculation on the potential circumstances of Lucretious's writing (extremely little is known about the author) - biography of apostolic secretary, bookhunter and humanist Poggio Braccolini - a study of the rise of humanist thinking, and how it shaped the period we call the Renaissance - a description of the political maneuvering inside the Catholic church in Poggio's lifetime (including the schism between three claimants to the papacy) - a rundown of how 'pagan' texts were received, treated and intellectually managed by the Catholic church - a quick recap of the contents and style of Lucretius's poem - a gloss of how Lucretius's poem - specifically, its fine Latin, its Epicurean theory, and the ideas around atoms - influenced later thinkers, writers and artists. It's just too much. Every time you get intrigued by something, you're carried off in another direction. I got particularly peevish over the opening chapters (in particular the spectacularly speculative recreation of a possible symposia in Pompeii) and took until the middle of the book to regain my equilibrium. Even with Greenblatt's fluid writing, I felt shortchanged. I would read a 260 page book on almost any of the points above, and I wouldn't have minded a 500 page book that gave more space to Greenblatt's interweaving of history and interpretation. But as it was, I know enough to know that there's more to know about almost every point that Greenblatt made, and that niggled away at me throughout. ...more This is a book about the philosophical epic poem De Rerum Natura (\"On the Nature of Things\") by Lucretius, written circa first century BC. It tells of its loss in Medieval times and later rediscovery during the Renaissance. The title, The Swerve, is used (in translation) by Lucretius to describe the unpredictable movements by which particles collide and take on new forms. The rediscovery of Lucretius, it is suggested, was a kind of \"swerve\" which helped to create the new cultural forms of the Re This is a book about the philosophical epic poem De Rerum Natura (\"On the Nature of Things\") by Lucretius, written circa first century BC. It tells of its loss in Medieval times and later rediscovery during the Renaissance. The title, The Swerve, is used (in translation) by Lucretius to describe the unpredictable movements by which particles collide and take on new forms. The rediscovery of Lucretius, it is suggested, was a kind of \"swerve\" which helped to create the new cultural forms of the Renaissance. The subtitle of \"how the World Became Modern\" is a bit of an overstatement, but this book does illuminate an interesting moment of cultural significance and provide a summary review of the history of books. It's interesting to note that the British publication of this book had a different subtitle, \"How the Renaissance Began\" which is just as much an overstatement and raises the question, \"Why do the Brits get a different title?\" I have my own interpretation of a second meaning for the title of this book. The title The Swerve brings to my mind the shift in cultural prestige that took place with the coming of the Enlightenment era when the most respected intellectuals became those who questioned perceived wisdom instead of those who meditated on revealed wisdom. The leading thinkers of the first century BC (when Lucretius lived) valued asking questions in the spirit of Greek philosophy. After the rise of Christianity and fall of the western part of the Roman Empire the leading thinkers changed to those who elaborated on the meanings of revealed truth contained in scripture. The coming of the Renaissance and Enlightenment constituted a \"swerve\" back to the intellectual direction of Lucretius' time. The story told by this book begins with Poggio Bracciolini visiting at a monastery in central Germany \u2013 almost certainly the Benedictine abbey of Fulda - searching for old manuscripts. What he found was a ninth-century manuscript copy containing the entire 7,400-line text of De Rerum Natura (\"On the Nature of Things\") by Lucretius. This extraordinary philosophical epic poem, composed in Rome around the middle of the first century BC, was in 1417 known only by references by other authors. Distant hints of its initial impact could be heard in a letter of Cicero's of 54 BC, which spoke of its \"brilliant genius\"; in <---C>Ovid</---C>'s commendation of \"the sublime Lucretius\"; and in Virgil's lines from the Georgics, \"Blessed is he who has succeeded in finding out the causes of things, and has trampled underfoot all fears.\" At the time of its discovery and for many years later it was the only known copy of the epic poem. Over the years a few other copies (or fragments) have been discovered, so it wasn't the sole surviving copy as it turned out. The copy found in Germany by Poggio and the copy made for him by a German scribe no longer survived today. But the beautiful transcript made back in Italy by his friend Niccol\u00f2 de' Niccoli survives today. It is probably no accident that so few copies of \"On the Nature of Things\" survived the Medieval era. The epic poem by Lucretius espoused ways of thinking that early Medieval church leaders found threatening to their cause. The history covered by this book includes; (1) The contrast between Roman intellectual thinking and the relatively coarse Latin contained in Christian codexes, (2) The history and fate of ancient Greek and Roman public libraries including the famous library at Alexandria, Egypt, (3) The preoccupation of some of the famous early Christian leaders with suffering which contrasted with Epicurean philosophy, (4) The career of Poggio Bracciolini within the environment of endemic corruption of the Roman Catholic Church (it was the era of three Popes), (5) A summary description of the contents of De Rerum Natura (\"On the Nature of Things\") by Lucretius, and (6) the history of how later writers and thinkers of the Renaissance and Enlightenment responded to the long poem by Lucretius. The quotations from \"On the Nature of Things\" contained in this book are surprising close to an accurate description of theories of atoms and natural selection. Of course Lucretius is speaking as a philosopher and not from observations of scientific discovery. Nevertheless, they sound surprisingly modern. One little bit of trivia that I learned from this book was contained in the discussion of Thomas More's book, Utopia . More's description of Utopia included capital punishment for those who didn't believe in God and the afterlife. In other words, Moore couldn't imagine people living in peace without the fear of punishment after death for bad behavior. The fear of execution in this life was replaced by fear of hell in the afterlife. The word \"utopia\" will never be the same for me. The following short review of this book is from the PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for December 3, 2014. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize and the National book Award for nonfiction, this is a distilled history of Western thought told through a few sharp eyes at critial junctures along the way. The most important to Greenblatt's telling is Poggio Bracciolini, a 15th century apostolic secretary who discovers a rare, 1,000-year-old text by Roman philosopher Lucretius. the two men, and the written histories that connect them, become the basis for this materful volume, which is liberally sprinkled with historical anecdotes that are always illuminating and often humorously entertaining. <+++>The Swerve: How the World Became Modern</+++>, by Stephen Greenblatt (W.W. Norton, 2011) ...more First, the title is really dumb. And both sides of the colon. The Swerve? Even after reading the book and having it explained to me, I still find it off-putting. And I have a problem with titles which add, after the colon, some phrase of puffery. Usually it's how something or someone (_________) Changed the World or Saved Civilization, even if (_________)'s accomplishment was much more modest. This book would tell us How the World Became Modern . But the World is a very big place. And some of it First, the title is really dumb. And both sides of the colon. The Swerve? Even after reading the book and having it explained to me, I still find it off-putting. And I have a problem with titles which add, after the colon, some phrase of puffery. Usually it's how something or someone (_________) Changed the World or Saved Civilization, even if (_________)'s accomplishment was much more modest. This book would tell us How the World Became Modern . But the World is a very big place. And some of it -- and a lot of people in it -- are not very modern at all. I make this complaint even while admitting that I come from a long line of exaggerators. With that little pet peeve of mine out of the way, let me say that this book is a marvel. It sang to my Epicurean spirit. I applaud it even as I refuse to sign on to the point of the thesis: that a long-hidden Greek poem, authored BC, accounts more or less for the scientific and philosophical world we now live in. That conclusion is convenient in hindsight but failed to convince me. Rather, it was the story that I loved. Not the story of the discovery of Lucretius' poem, but the stories of the people who dared to think of how the world works, and the people who tried to stop them from thinking. Heroes and Villains. The Villains are Baldassare Cossa, the original Pope John XXIII, and Thomas More, who is revered by Catholics to this day, yet tried unsuccessfully to get the Inquisition up and running in England and believed in a Utopia where heretics were burned at the stake. The Heroes, for me, were Giordano Bruno, who denied the right of his inquisitors to dictate what was heresy (they didn't take that well), and Michel Eyquem de Montaigne, whose heavily annotated personal copy of Lucretius' poem informed Shakespeare, and through him, Spenser, Donne and Bacon. It is one thing, in reading a book, to be entertained (I was); even better is it to immediately have a new must read list as a result. And so I have already ordered Shakespeare's Montaigne The Florio Translation of the Essays A Selection . Another NYRB-Classic, with an introduction by Stephen Greenblatt. People are moved by what Lucretius wrote, what he imagined. I was. Stephen Greenblatt was. Montaigne surely was, as this included quote from his essays demonstrates: Go out of this world as you entered it. The same passage that you made from death to life, without feeling or fright, make it again from life to death. Your death is part of the order of the universe; it is part of the life of the world. Our lives we borrow from each other . . . And men, like runners, pass along the torch of life. ...more I jogged along easily, enjoying the scenery, taking in the weather without letting it affect me, swinging the arms, breathing, pacing myself nicely thank you. But as in a marathon (I'm told, never had such ambitions myself) there was a man with a hammer waiting at around kilometre 30. Suddenly the legs turned to lead and the breathing became laboured and all I wanted to do was to finish. And soon. Please. I haven't managed to work out whether the brick wall I hit at the end of chapter eight was l I jogged along easily, enjoying the scenery, taking in the weather without letting it affect me, swinging the arms, breathing, pacing myself nicely thank you. But as in a marathon (I'm told, never had such ambitions myself) there was a man with a hammer waiting at around kilometre 30. Suddenly the legs turned to lead and the breathing became laboured and all I wanted to do was to finish. And soon. Please. I haven't managed to work out whether the brick wall I hit at the end of chapter eight was lying in wait for me because of my own lack of stamina or whether it had something to do with outside circumstances, or possibly the expectations set up by the sub-title. How Poggio Found The Book was as exciting as a thriller, and the summary of Lucretius' On The Nature of Things was fascinating, but How The World Became Modern was a weaker brew, I thought, with little aroma. However it has to be said that by that point in my reading I was also back home from hols, back to mundane daily life; work and various other commitments, distractions, and stuff to deal with, you know, not always pleasant. So my schizophrenic response might have more to do with me than with the book. But maybe we compounded and confounded each other. At least that's my excuse. I hope Mr. Greenblatt will forgive me. ...more Stephen Greenblatt is a literary scholar specializing in Shakespeare. He is also a cultured despiser of Christianity; indeed, it appears, of all religion. For him, the world become modern is the world discarding God; the means by which it became modern was the discovery and dissemination of Lucretius' De rerum natura in the Renaissance. From it we learned, he says, that the world is made up of atoms colliding at random, forming and reforming objects, including whatever passes for the human soul, Stephen Greenblatt is a literary scholar specializing in Shakespeare. He is also a cultured despiser of Christianity; indeed, it appears, of all religion. For him, the world become modern is the world discarding God; the means by which it became modern was the discovery and dissemination of Lucretius' De rerum natura in the Renaissance. From it we learned, he says, that the world is made up of atoms colliding at random, forming and reforming objects, including whatever passes for the human soul, without any meaning or higher purpose. The highest purpose in life is maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain, and after death there is nothing but dissolution. This last belief is said to be consoling. It is generally not to the point to discuss an author's personal psychology in appraising his book, but Prof. Greenblatt invites us to do so in his introduction. His own discovery of Lucretius as a teenager, he tells us, freed him from the hold that his own mother's obsessive fear of imminent death (she lived to the age of 95) had had on his psyche. Lucretius' Epicureanism gave him the equanimity of heart to discount his mother's fears and face the world as it really was. Hence he has become an evangelist for Lucretius, a new atheist proclaiming an old atheism. Prof. Greenblatt's hero is Poggio Bracciolini, the Renaissance humanist who, in the early 15th century, rediscovered De rerum natura in a monastic library (Prof. Greenblatt believes it was Fulda) and put it in circulation once again. Poggio's life story occupies at least the first half of the book, providing the occasion, since he was a papal secretary at the time of the Western Schism and the Council of Constance, for Prof. Greenblatt to lick his chops over the corruption of the Church in that era, and to bewail the deaths of Jan Hus and Jerome of Prague. He is too honest to maintain that Poggio actually claimed to be an Epicurean, although if anyone ever echoed the ideas of Lucretius but discounted them in favor of Christianity, he generally claims they did so only to avoid persecution by the evil and all-powerful Church. Once the Lucretian, Epicurean cat was out of the bag, Prof. Greenblatt argues, modernity was on its way. The ideas of Lucretius, he argues, are responsible for modern science, even though some who benefit from it deny them. By this I take him to mean that anyone who enjoys modern medicine, transportation, computer technology, or any other manifestation of scientific activity, or who accepts modern physics and chemistry, believes that the earth orbits the sun, or recognizes that the ancestors of present-day plants and animals looked considerably different from their descendants, and still believes in God, the immortality of the soul, and a future life, is a hypocrite and an ingrate. That is, in my humble opinion, a pretty big leap. The Renaissance perfected modernity through the dissemination of Lucretian ideas by Botticelli (whose \"Primavera\" echoes some of De rerum natura --even though he died in the Dominican habit as a follower of Savonarola), Giordano Bruno, Galileo, Montaigne, and Ben Jonson. Of these, Bruno is Prof. Greenblatt's second hero, one more to the point because he actually was an Epicurean. Bruno's execution demonstrates conclusively for Prof. Greenblatt that the Catholic Church is, was, and always will be the greatest obstacle to progress. From the atomism of Lucretius, shared, he says, by these figures, we have a direct line through Isaac Newton to the theories of modern physics. Like many of the new atheists, Prof. Greenblatt chooses to remain blithely ignorant of the faith he attacks. Like them, he appears to misunderstand what Christians (and Jews and Muslims) actually believe about God, failing to distinguish between necessary and contingent being, or between immanence and transcendence. He seems to believe that the Protestant Reformers were influenced by atomism in their denial of transubstantiation (which, by the way, was first defined as dogma at IV Lateran in 1215, not at the Council of Trent as Prof. Greenblatt thinks), which is demonstrably untrue. Neither Luther nor Calvin had any more use for Epicureanism than the Catholic Church--indeed probably much less. Bruno would have been anathema, and probably would have suffered the same fate, in Calvin's Geneva or Luther's Wittenberg. Indeed, Copernicanism, which Prof. Greenblatt associates with Lucretius, was better accepted in the Catholic Church than in Protestant states, at least initially. The case of Galileo (whom Prof. Greenblatt likewise claims for one of his own) was a great deal more complex than the confrontation between reason and superstition that he and his confreres would make of it. He is not a historian of science (nor am I, but I know enough about it to recognize the fatal oversimplification), but this does not prevent him from arguing that Galileo was persecuted for his atomism even while acknowledging (in a footnote) that he is differing from most historians of science. No doubt there are specialists more informed than I who could better expose Prof. Greenblatt's distortions, so I will only mention one more: a fudge common to many atheists as big as Mackinac Island. He gets it from Lucretius and accepts it without comment or any attempt to explain the logic. This is his account of the origin of free will. If everything happens by physical causes, then everything must proceed either by necessity or chance. An honest atheist, like Denis Diderot in the 18th century, recognized that materialism excludes free will. Lucretius introduces a clinamen , or the \"swerve\" that gives the book its title, as the source of free will for both gods (for Lucretius is a practical, not a theoretical, atheist) and men. I haven't read Lucretius, so I can't judge how he explains this, but Prof. Greenblatt certainly does not explain it. He merely asserts that Lucretius' \"swerve\" preserves free will. Professor Greenblatt has written interesting things about Shakespeare, especially his Will in the World . He is not a philosopher or a historian of religion or of science. This book will is less a work of history than yet another entry in the catalog of the New Atheism, a movement of far greater intellectual pretension than quality. ...more On the Nature of Things by Lucretius was one of my favorite books I read when I was an undergraduate philosophy student. Perhaps it helped that my professor was a thin man, with a sprawling beard, and intense green eyes, who would shriek the lines of the poem like a Puritan preacher. Fortunately, Stephen Greenblatt cannot take away my experience of reading Lucretius. Much of his book is speculative (if he was here then he probably would have gone to this monastery, and while there, he probably w On the Nature of Things by Lucretius was one of my favorite books I read when I was an undergraduate philosophy student. Perhaps it helped that my professor was a thin man, with a sprawling beard, and intense green eyes, who would shriek the lines of the poem like a Puritan preacher. Fortunately, Stephen Greenblatt cannot take away my experience of reading Lucretius. Much of his book is speculative (if he was here then he probably would have gone to this monastery, and while there, he probably would have done this...), and his thesis is overblown. The book is mostly a sprawling biography of Poggio Bracciolini, an early 15th century Italian humanist, who among his peers recovered classical texts rotting away in German monasteries; as well as descriptions of life and intrigue in the Vatican court and Renaissance Italy. Only a small portion is devoted to Lucretius himself (some of it unavoidably speculative because we have little concrete evidence of his life), and Greenblatt gives almost a bullet point summary of the poem (okay, a slight exaggeration). Finally, as to his legacy (subtitle is \"How the World Became Modern\"), Greenblatt does spend a lot of time about turmoil in the Christian Church and its prosecution of heretics, but too little, I think, in establishing the influence of Lucretius (and thus, Epicurus) on future thinkers (Perhaps the worst example: Shakespeare was a friend of a friend of the philosopher Bruno, and he also probably chatted with Ben Johnson, who owned a copy of On the Nature of Things.). This was a disappointing book. ...more The Swerve is a romantic tale of a book lover, but it is so much more. True--it's a tale of passion and sacrifice, but also of fanaticism and philosophical determination. The war of beliefs that rages today is not new, but is merely a continuation of fear versus reason, and belief versus logic. The violence we see between ourselves stem from the same ignorance and hatred, fear and exercise of domination. Heretics who believed in atoms and the end of the soul were burned at the stake, after tortu The Swerve is a romantic tale of a book lover, but it is so much more. True--it's a tale of passion and sacrifice, but also of fanaticism and philosophical determination. The war of beliefs that rages today is not new, but is merely a continuation of fear versus reason, and belief versus logic. The violence we see between ourselves stem from the same ignorance and hatred, fear and exercise of domination. Heretics who believed in atoms and the end of the soul were burned at the stake, after torture and mutilation, in the name of religion. Ideas had power then and a whisper of complaint could cost you your life. We war, still, at rallies, marches and over the internet. What is this desire to control the hearts and minds of our fellow human beings, I'll never understand. Reading The Swerve showed me that intolerance is not new, and we have not evolved. Funny that Thomas Jefferson considered himself an Epicurean. America was built along the linage of Democritus, which describes a civilization more appealing than fire and brimstone. Is fear truly the only way to advance our civilization? Addendum: A belief system not addressed in The Swerve is a Republican/Conservative one that holds corporations at the same or higher regard as people. Workers and consumers are important only to further the profit of the corporation. Unfortunate side effects such as pollution, toxic products, and dangerous working conditions, and fraud are ignored, denied or tolerated for profit-driven growth. Like the church of old, anyone who disagrees with this will be shouted down, stomped upon, or ridiculed. This election is a battle between humanism and corporation-ists. Like the yin/yang symbol, both sides bear blemishes of the other. So, new visions have entered the world stage, but the method by which they battle has not changed, it has become more psychological, perhaps, but just as manipulative. Oh, by the way, I highly recommend this book. ...more I'm very ambivalent about this book. On the one hand, it was an intriguing glimpse into the 15th-century searches for classical manuscripts via the discovery of Lucretius' poem De rerum natura by a relatively obscure papal secretary. It expanded my knowledge of antipopes, humanism, and - obviously - Epicureanism. But on the other hand, I found the book to be deeply flawed in two significant ways. First, Greenblatt seems to hold bizarre prejudices against the Christian church. For example (and th I'm very ambivalent about this book. On the one hand, it was an intriguing glimpse into the 15th-century searches for classical manuscripts via the discovery of Lucretius' poem De rerum natura by a relatively obscure papal secretary. It expanded my knowledge of antipopes, humanism, and - obviously - Epicureanism. But on the other hand, I found the book to be deeply flawed in two significant ways. First, Greenblatt seems to hold bizarre prejudices against the Christian church. For example (and this is just one of many), his depiction of the Church during the Middle Ages is intensely ugly and critical. I'm not saying that the Dark Ages were a great time, but he focuses unrelentingly (and graphically) on the practice of corporal mortification to the exclusion of any other Church practices and doctrines. Second, Greenblatt strains to position the poem as the central text of the post-Renaissance. Maybe it actually was the most influential work of all time, but unfortunately, Greenblatt does not fill me with confidence about this conclusion. He just cherry-picks great thinkers throughout the centuries and asserts (with minimal textual proofs) that they were influenced by the poem. Indeed, he manages to get from Machiavelli to Jefferson in less than fifty pages. Ultimately, I was left with the impression that the book was trying to \"convert\" me to Epicureanism. Had it just been a straightforward book of popular history, even one that described the very real tensions between classical philosophies and the doctrines of the Catholic Church, I would have loved it. But I didn't appreciate the sinking feeling that the book was pushing me to conclude that smart, sophisticated people are atheists/Epicureans and that only the willfully ignorant or tragically backwards are still Christians. ...more That this mediocre book won a Pulitzer Prize substantially diminishes for me the significance of Pulitzer Prizes. There are two tangentially connected stories here, which Greenblatt tries to weave together. One is a popular, personalized history of the medieval Florentine humanist and bookhunter, Poggio Bracciolini, who is Greenblatt's subject by virtue of being the person rediscovered the book De rerum natura , known in English as On the Nature of Things , by the Epicurean Roman philosopher-poet That this mediocre book won a Pulitzer Prize substantially diminishes for me the significance of Pulitzer Prizes. There are two tangentially connected stories here, which Greenblatt tries to weave together. One is a popular, personalized history of the medieval Florentine humanist and bookhunter, Poggio Bracciolini, who is Greenblatt's subject by virtue of being the person rediscovered the book De rerum natura , known in English as On the Nature of Things , by the Epicurean Roman philosopher-poet Lucretius, in a monastery and brought it into circulation among medieval humanists. This story is carried mainly by chapters two, five, six, seven, and nine; makes interesting reading and is generally well-written, though it suffers slightly from being over-written (see below), particularly in the early chapters. The second \"story\" is the central conceit of the book that the rediscovery of De rerum natura , played a significant role in changing the world from medieval to modern, and closely tied to it Greenblatt's personal atheistic and anti-Christian theology presented in a very condescending way in which the author assumes that his theology is synonymous with \"rationality\", though to this observer that seems a rather absurd and ill-founded presumption by Greenblatt. This story is carried primarily in chapters three, four, eight, ten, and eleven. To this reader, there is little binding these two narratives together, despite Greenblatt's attempt to interweave them. This is where the book fails. The claim at the heart of this story is not made sufficiently. In fact, I find it lacking credibility, not least because the story itself shows us the foundation of modernist thinking already in place prior to the rediscovery of Lucretius' poem! Greenblatt seems aware of how weak his claim is. In the preface he admits \u201cOne poem by itself was certainly not responsible for an entire, intellectual, moral, and social transformation\u2026\" but, he nevertheless he claims \"this particular ancient book, suddenly returning to view, made a difference.\u201d (p.11) and goes on to describe the effect of teh poem as \u201cmomentous\u201d, \u201cexplosive\u201d, and describe its discovery in terms of \"unleashing\u201d a revolutionary force. But looking around at our modern world, where do we see this? Or looking in this book is the case made? In Chapter Eight Greenblatt provides an itemized summary of points made by Lucretius that he sees as relevant to modernity. Key among these is that Lucretius and the Epicurean's had a theory of atoms, and modern physics has a theory of atoms, but it is debatable how similar the Epicurean's theory of atoms and the modern theory of atoms really are, and the concept of atoms per se, i.e. that there must be some kind of indivisible building blocks of matter, is one logical solution to the potential problem of infinite regress in asking \"if things are made of [X], what is X made of?\" So the mere use of concept of atoms is not particularly revolutionary or noteworthy, IMO. Many of the other points in this chapter are fundamentally theological or ontological: \"Everything comes into being as a result of a swerve\", that is, by randomness in the motion of atoms; this randomness is ultimately the source of \"free will\"; \"The universe was not created for or about humans\"; \"Humans are not unique\"; \"The soul dies\" with the body; \"There is no afterlife\"; \"All organized religions are superstitious delusions\"; \"The highest goal of human life is the enhancement of pleasure and the reduction of pain\". There is not anything close to consensus in modernity about these claims, nor can they be demonstrated to be true. The claim that all religions are superstitious delusions is highly ironic when one recognizes that the Lucretius' beliefs themselves constitute an organized religion, which incidentally also offers an alternate explanation to that offered by Greenblatt about why the medieval church took exception to them. In Chapters nine and ten Greenblatt tries to show the influence of Lucretius on Thomas More, Giordano Bruno, and to the founding political ideals of the United States via Thomas Jefferson. Clearly On the Nature of Things enjoyed a well-educated audience with whose views it resonated to greater or lesser degree, but that hardly makes the case for the claims that this work was a foundation of modernist thinking. I note a number of excerpts from the book that strike me as either presumptious or peculiar: \u201cAncient Greeks and Romans did not share our [sic] idealization of isolated geniuses, working alone through the knottiest problems. Such scenes\u2026 would eventually become our [sic] dominant emblem of the life of the mind\u2026\u201d (p. 68) This one actually made me laugh out loud at its absurdity and wonder that an author who would write this could win a Pulitzer Prize. \u201cWhy should anyone with any sense credit the idea of Providence, a childish idea contradicted by any [sic] rational adult\u2019s experience and observation? Christians are like a council of frogs in a pond, croaking at the top of their lungs, \u2018For our sakes was the world created.\u2019\u201d (p. 98) The latter sentence seems to me based on a deeply flawed stereotype about Christian beliefs, though perhaps that stereotype had greater validity in medieval times. The first sentence is where, IMO, the real problem lies. Providence is, IMO, one of just a few possible explanations for things that I have experienced and observed in my lifetime, and which I assume many other people experience, and while there could certainly be other explanations for those experiences, I fail to see any basis for concluding that a belief in Providence is irrational. Indeed, it seems to me that there have been a great many generally rational people who have believed in Providence. But then again, the model of \"Providence\" that Greenblatt offers later in his book bears scant resemblance to what that concept means to me. It feels to me like a straw argument of an atheist who wishes to discount it. Unfortunately or fortunately, depending on which side of the debate one stands on, what would be needed to dispel the idea is beyond the possibility of empirical evidence. Which again makes me wonder how the Pulitzer Prize would be awarded to such obviously flawed logic. Another example of logic flaws are the various teleologies that the author articulates e.g. \u201cWhat had to be done was\u2026\u201d (p.101), \u201cCenturies were required to accomplish this grand design [sic]\u2026\u201d Greenblatt writes \u201cThough early Christians\u2026 found certain features in Epicureanism admirable\u2026\" but then writes \"Christians particularly found Epicureanism a noxious threat.\u201d (p. 101) These seems almost self-contradictory. How noxious a threat could it have been if some portions of it were admirable? Similarly Greenblatt writes \"Lucretius was not in fact an atheist\u2026\" but then \"It is possible to argue that\u2026 Lucretius was some sort of atheist\u2026\u201d (p.183) and then again \u201cthe set of convictions articulated\u2026 in Lucretius\u2019 poem was virtually a textbook\u2026 definition of atheism\u201d (p. 221). ?!? \u201cAs every pious reader of Luke\u2019s Gospel knew, Jesus wept, but there were no verses that described him laughing or smiling, let alone pursuing pleasure.\u201d [p.105] There may be no versus that specifically mention Jesus laughing or smiling, but there are a number of scenes mention in the gospels that seem, to this observer, to defy the claim here that Jesus rejects pleasure altogether, including the wedding at Cana, Jesus eating with sinners, Martha annointing him, and especially the observation of some of his contemporaries that he did not affect the mourning/fasting countenance of John the Baptist, and his reply \u201cCan you make the guests mourn while they are with the bridegroom? (Luke 5:34) Throughout the book, and especially in Chapter four, Greenblatt portrays Christians, at least ardent medieval Christians, as superstitious, irrational, and enemies to mankind. In the context of medieval Christianity, some of that is warranted, but I think the effort to extend it to Christianity generally across time is to conflate the thinking of medieval religious institutions with Christian theology generally. Greenblatt also has an elitist, derisive view toward less educated, common people, e.g. peasants, artisans, farmers, etc, which is evident at various points in his writing. The book, especially the early chapters, suffers somewhat from over-writing, by which I mean: (1) some paragraphs are redundant of prior paragraphs, belaboring the point or assuming that the audience is deficient in attention span, as in the manner of a contemporary TV shows that, after each commercial break, give you a synopsis of what they have already covered; (2) the author sometimes wants to tell you what you should think about the things he has described rather than merely describing them and leaving the thinking to the reader, though mercifully that aspect of over-writtenness is minor in this book; (3) the author presents certain information, most notably Poggio's THOUGHTS, and certain presumed \"truths\" about the universe, which he cannot know, but can only speculate on or assume, aided in the former instance by analysis of Poggio's writings; and especially (4) that the author goes on at length and with various digressions to tell at length what could be said better more succinctly. Greenblatt will offer a half a chapter with unneeded digressions on a half dozen topics to tell you what a lesser writer might have narrated more effectively in a page or two. \u201cThe link [to Poggio\u2019s grandfather] is worth noting because\u2026. [the grandfather] signed a notarial register with a strikingly beautiful signature. Penmanship would turn out to play an oddly important role in the grandson\u2019s story.\u201d (p.112) Really, a paragraph on the grandfather is important because the grandfather and his grandson both had beautiful handwriting?! In summary, reading the biographical history of Poggio Bracciolini is interesting, as are some of the digressive narratives insofar as they contribute to that story, but the writing suffers from over-writing, flawed assumptions, and certain biases that I find repugnant. Most of all I don't find Lucretius' poem particularly relevant to the modern world and IMO the author fails to make a compelling, or even credible case that it was. ...more Major disappointment, this book. First, the title and subtitle suggest that the rediscovery of the manuscript of Lucretius' On the Nature of Things had a major influence on Renaissance thinking. Greenblatt does not make his case on this, in fact, offers only the palest of evidence: a sentence here or there from a handful of Renaissance types. It's as though he came up with an idea, started doing the research, found out the thesis didn't wash, but wrote the book anyway. The misguided ideas about Major disappointment, this book. First, the title and subtitle suggest that the rediscovery of the manuscript of Lucretius' On the Nature of Things had a major influence on Renaissance thinking. Greenblatt does not make his case on this, in fact, offers only the palest of evidence: a sentence here or there from a handful of Renaissance types. It's as though he came up with an idea, started doing the research, found out the thesis didn't wash, but wrote the book anyway. The misguided ideas about epicureanism, and the Catholic Church's opposition to them, predated the rediscovery of the Lucretius manuscript. The valid -- in view of Church theology -- criticisms had been around for centuries. Epicureanism had little influence either way on the trends in Renaissance thinking. Neoplatonism was by far the more important development and had far-ranging influence. Greenblatt seems to do a lot of padding. While the story of the discovery of a still-existing manuscript was intersting, it became almost juvenile in its execution. Many of the details, apparently meant to give some sense of the times, seemed irrelevant and interrupted the narrative of the discovery. A lot of words about very little. If you haven't read Lucretius' work, he has a chapter which is basically an outline of the ideas found in The Nature of Things . However, it's far into the book, so if this is what you're looking for, you have to wade through a lot to get there. This chapter is the best thing in the book. His outline is accurate, and covers all the major ideas. Unfortunately, it does read a bit like a Cliff Notes version of Lucretius. I gave this two stars rather than one only because I love to read anything about the Renaissance. And there are times when Greenblatt's writing is engaging. But overall, if you want to understand Lucretius, read him in an Oxford or Penguin translation. If you think Greenblatt is going to show you an influence of epicurean thinking you never knew about, don't bother with this book. You can't create an influence just because you want it to be there. If Greenblatt proved anything, it's that. ...more Fascinating. A manuscript copy of a poem by the ancient Roman author Lucretius is discovered in a 15th-century German monastery by the personal secretary of a disgraced and deposed pope. The man\u2019s name is Poggio Basciolini and he is unusual for his time: driven by curiosity, when curiosity is not considered a virtue but a vice, fascinated with the ideas of ancient and pagan Greece and Rome, a dangerous hobby in Poggio\u2019s time, heretical even. Lucretius\u2019s poem, On the Nature of Things , is striking Fascinating. A manuscript copy of a poem by the ancient Roman author Lucretius is discovered in a 15th-century German monastery by the personal secretary of a disgraced and deposed pope. The man\u2019s name is Poggio Basciolini and he is unusual for his time: driven by curiosity, when curiosity is not considered a virtue but a vice, fascinated with the ideas of ancient and pagan Greece and Rome, a dangerous hobby in Poggio\u2019s time, heretical even. Lucretius\u2019s poem, On the Nature of Things , is strikingly modern (that the universe is made up of atoms that are shared by the stars, oceans, animals, and us - a sort of early \"unifying theory\"; that there is no afterlife, but rather than being something to fear, we should be inspired by this to live life fully), considered radical even in its own time. Greenblatt weaves together the tale of the \"book hunter\" Poggio and his quest with the fall of Rome and the precarious survival of Greek and Roman texts in monasteries (where monk-scribes copied out the ancient manuscripts not necessarily as acts of intellectual engagement, as I had always assumed, but more often as acts of obedience, and a good thing too, since someone intellectually engaged, as Greenblatt points out, might have been more likely to change something in the process), their recovery by men like Poggio, and the blossoming of the Renaissance. ...more On le dit: il ne faut pas pr\u00e9juger du contenu d'un livre par sa couverture. Pourtant, il n'emp\u00eache qu'\u00e0 mesure que l'on gagne de l'exp\u00e9rience, les impressions ext\u00e9rieurs des choses nous avertissent toujours mieux des pi\u00e8ges desquels il convient de se garder. Mais si la prudence est un bien, elle se paye par des pr\u00e9jug\u00e9s. Ainsi, je n'aurais probablement jamais achet\u00e9 un livre aussi horriblement maquill\u00e9 qu'un paquet de lessive ou un shampooing: on dirait une affiche de film, pouah! Et le sous-tit On le dit: il ne faut pas pr\u00e9juger du contenu d'un livre par sa couverture. Pourtant, il n'emp\u00eache qu'\u00e0 mesure que l'on gagne de l'exp\u00e9rience, les impressions ext\u00e9rieurs des choses nous avertissent toujours mieux des pi\u00e8ges desquels il convient de se garder. Mais si la prudence est un bien, elle se paye par des pr\u00e9jug\u00e9s. Ainsi, je n'aurais probablement jamais achet\u00e9 un livre aussi horriblement maquill\u00e9 qu'un paquet de lessive ou un shampooing: on dirait une affiche de film, pouah! Et le sous-titre: \" ...un manuscrit perdu qui change le cours de l'histoire \". Ben voyons! Et puis quoi encore? Bref, tout pour d\u00e9plaire. Maudit marketing! H\u00e9las, les f\u00eates sont l\u00e0 pour donner l'occasion \u00e0 nos proches de nous mettre dans les mains les livres que nous n'aurions jamais achet\u00e9 de notre propre chef. Et comme la politesse et la biens\u00e9ance nous commandent de dissimuler notre d\u00e9ception face au peu d'estime qui est fait de notre go\u00fbt, il ne reste plus qu'\u00e0 faire bon visage, remercier, et lire promptement l'ouvrage pour ne pas donner l'impression que l'on se contente de payer de belles paroles les bons offices dont on a \u00e9t\u00e9 l'objet. Quelque part, je l'ai \u00e9chapp\u00e9 belle, car j'ai bien failli recevoir le livre sur Jeanne d'Arc \u00e9crit par Philippe de Villiers, lequel aurait vraisemblablement mis ma patience \u00e0 bien plus rude \u00e9preuve. J'\u00e9tais donc dans ces mauvaises dispositions en commen\u00e7ant la lecture, et l'introduction confortait mes r\u00e9ticences: des impr\u00e9cisions, des simplifications, un ton de causerie o\u00f9 l'auteur se met en avant pour dire des na\u00efvet\u00e9s, une remarque b\u00eate sur la r\u00e9volution fran\u00e7aise. Mais il a fini peu \u00e0 peu par m'amadouer, avec un ton didactique clair et vivant, un souci du d\u00e9tail, des r\u00e9f\u00e9rences pr\u00e9cises, et une pr\u00e9sentation nuanc\u00e9e et balanc\u00e9e des choses qui rendent justice \u00e0 leur complexit\u00e9. S'il embrasse un tr\u00e8s vaste sujet qu'il ne fait \u00e9videmment effleurer, il ne le cache pas au lecteur, et donne simplement go\u00fbt et consistance aux choses qu'il \u00e9voque. J'ai une connaissance tr\u00e8s sommaire de la Renaissance, mais j'ai toujours \u00e9t\u00e9 admiratif de l'engouement pour l'Antiquit\u00e9, au point d'avoir attrap\u00e9 le virus. Je connais plut\u00f4t bien les livres auxquels il fait r\u00e9f\u00e9rence, de Lucr\u00e8ce, de Cic\u00e9ron, et je pense \u00e0 d'autre que l'auteur aurait pu ajouter, mais il faut bien borner son sujet. J'ai \u00e9t\u00e9 tr\u00e8s int\u00e9ress\u00e9 d'apprendre les d\u00e9tails sur la conservation des anciens manuscrits dans les monast\u00e8res chr\u00e9tiens en Allemagne et en France, et sur le Pogge, l'un de ces hommes qui ont commenc\u00e9 \u00e0 en faire une recherche syst\u00e9matique. Il est ensuite donn\u00e9 une peinture sommaire des influences qu'eurent ces ouvrages: l\u00e0 encore, c'est un peu sch\u00e9matique, mais ce n'est pas si grave. Au final, un bon livre de vulgarisation. ...more Others who were disappointed by this book can express the reasons far better than I could. If you have no experience with the ancient philosophers, you might find this interesting. If you have a mild interest in medieval or Renaissance history you may find this book interesting. Although, your interest would be better served by an actual historian. I give it 2 stars because I am soft and love the classical world and those individuals throughout history who have derived inspiration from the class Others who were disappointed by this book can express the reasons far better than I could. If you have no experience with the ancient philosophers, you might find this interesting. If you have a mild interest in medieval or Renaissance history you may find this book interesting. Although, your interest would be better served by an actual historian. I give it 2 stars because I am soft and love the classical world and those individuals throughout history who have derived inspiration from the classical world, Greenblatt included. I so wanted to enjoy this book! But he doesn't deliver. He takes precious little material and fluffs it up. Lots of speculation presented as journalistic storytelling. Most of the book is spent wandering around following the life of a book collector. So what. This isn't good storytelling. It isn't good scholarship. When the author does get around to discussing the actual philosophy and \"science\" of Lucretius, he actually resorts to a bullet point summary. He does a disservice to those who would like to learn about the medieval or renaissance world, and to those who'd like to learn about Lucretius. When Greenblatt finally gets around to making his case for how Lucretius \"made the world modern\" the book is practically over and, frankly, he gives little support to his thesis. I just found the whole experience a bit odd. Is this a case of \"publish or perish\"? ...more This book is OK overall, no more, and IS deserving of the criticism Greenblatt has gotten, for overstating his case and more. Greenblatt's good part is explaining how Poggio came across the book, his general hunting for books, what it was like to be an early Renaissance non-clerical humanist and similar things. The not so good is overstating his case, and getting some things wrong, incomplete or unexplained. First, the inventors of atomic theory, Democritus and Leucippus were pre-Epicurean and even This book is OK overall, no more, and IS deserving of the criticism Greenblatt has gotten, for overstating his case and more. Greenblatt's good part is explaining how Poggio came across the book, his general hunting for books, what it was like to be an early Renaissance non-clerical humanist and similar things. The not so good is overstating his case, and getting some things wrong, incomplete or unexplained. First, the inventors of atomic theory, Democritus and Leucippus were pre-Epicurean and even pre-Socratic. Greenblatt never mentions this. Nor does he mention that Greek philosophers in general were anti-empirical, and therefore antiscientific, as we know science today. (Indeed, one could argue that Archimedes and Eratosthenes were the only two real scientists the Hellenistic world produced.) Ergo, especially if we start \"modernity\" with the Enlightenment and not the Renaissance, Epicureanism was not \"how the world became modern.\" Not even close. Second, he cherry-picks who was influenced by Lucretius, and how much, and how much influence they had. The late Renaissance world didn't see a flowering of Giordano Brunos. In this way, the book reminds me of a Ph.D. these written by either an English lit or a psychology grad student, trying to find something semi-outrageous to \"break through.\" ...more Reality is a mess of conflicting details, and history surges forward like a wave breaking where, at any one time, there are only slightly more elements going forward than are going up and down or even backwards. In other words, we reduce a complex history to cartoon sketches: noble Rome; ignorant Middle Ages; religious Renaissance; until science gave us atomic theory and a way to live that doesn't require a God, people were pious, ignorant, and unquestioning. The difference between historians an Reality is a mess of conflicting details, and history surges forward like a wave breaking where, at any one time, there are only slightly more elements going forward than are going up and down or even backwards. In other words, we reduce a complex history to cartoon sketches: noble Rome; ignorant Middle Ages; religious Renaissance; until science gave us atomic theory and a way to live that doesn't require a God, people were pious, ignorant, and unquestioning. The difference between historians and ourselves is that historians are familiar with the details, including the eddies and complexities that defy the cartoon. \"The Swerve\" gives us a richer and cliche-defying view of history by looking at one moment: the rediscovery of the 1st century BC poem \"On The Nature of Things\" by Lucretius. Greenblatt tells us about the poem and its context; about the rediscoverer, Paggio Bracciolini; about the mood of humanist scholarship around this time (the early 1400s) in Italy; about his journey and the structure of the monastery; and, magically, also about the ideas of the poem and how they've carried through history. Lucretius, you see, was an Epicurean. Their philosophy was crudely portrayed as hedonistic \"all about pleasure\", but it was far more subtle. They have a lot in common with the Stoics I read about before: rejecting the idea of living for an afterlife, or being caught up in material possessions, it was better to distance oneself from such things and enjoy life for what it was. Lucretius's poem reflected these ideas and more. Here's the amazing summary from \"The Swerve\" of the central ideas in \"On The Nature of Things\": &bullet;Everything is made of invisible particles. &bullet;The elementary particles of matter\u2014\u201cthe seeds of the things\u201d\u2014are eternal. &bullet;The elementary particles are infinite in number but limited in shape and size. &bullet;All particles are in motion in an infinite void. &bullet;The universe has no creator or designer. &bullet;Everything comes into being as a result of a swerve. [randomness] &bullet;The swerve is the source of free will. &bullet;Nature ceaselessly experiments. &bullet;The universe was not created for or about humans. &bullet;Humans are not unique. &bullet;Human society began not in a Golden Age of tranquility and plenty, but in a primitive battle for survival. &bullet;The soul dies. &bullet;There is no afterlife. &bullet;Death is nothing to us. &bullet;All organized religions are superstitious delusions. &bullet;Religions are invariably cruel. &bullet;There are no angels, demons, or ghosts. &bullet;The highest goal of human life is the enhancement of pleasure and the reduction of pain. &bullet;The greatest obstacle to pleasure is not pain; it is delusion. &bullet;Understanding the nature of things generates deep wonder. Yes. Wow. The revelation to me was that atomic theory didn't die. It was alive and being talked about after \"On The Nature of Things\" was rediscovered, talked about and accepted to the point where the Inquisition had to forbid it and trainee Jesuits had to recite a catechism against it. It made sense, people accepted it. The more controversial God-rejecting parts of the poem had to be dealt with cautiously (scholars often praised its literary merits while saying \"obviously the pagan thinking shouldn't be spoken of\") but still had life, as Greenblatt shows. I've personally begun a new way of thinking about history. Instead of looking for The Great Men or the Few Key Ideas, I'm amassing a million questions: what kinds of jobs did people have? How did they dress? Why? What education was on offer? Who got to take it up? What did they learn? How? Why? and so on. Learn the full picture of a space, not just the barest facts and broad brush colours. Greenblatt takes the same approach: he picks up the poem and examines it, where it was found, the author, the discoverer, his world, his job, his friends, the consequences of its discovery, how it influenced later thinkers like More and Montaigne. The essay Against the Hypocrites, for example, has its share of stories of clerical seducers, but the stories are part of a larger, much more serious analysis of an institutional dilemma: why churchmen, and especially monks, are particularly prone to hypocrisy. Is there a relation, Poggio asks, between religious vocation and fraud? A full answer would certainly involve sexual motives, but those motives alone cannot adequately account for the swarms of hypocrites in a place such as the curia, including monks notable for their ostentatious piety and their ascetic pallor who are feverishly seeking benefices, immunities, favors, privileges, positions of power. Nor can sexual intrigues adequately explain the still larger swarms of robed hypocrites in the world outside the curia, charismatic preachers who mint money with their sonorous voices and their terrible threats of hellfire and damnation, Observant friars who claim to adhere strictly to the Order of St. Francis but have the morals of bandits, mendicant friars with their little sacks, their long hair and longer beards, and their fraudulent pretense of living in holy poverty, confessors who pry into the secrets of every man and woman. Why don\u2019t all these models of extravagant religiosity simply shut themselves up in their cells and commit themselves to lives of fasting and prayer? Because their conspicuous professions of piety, humility, and contempt for the world are actually masks for avarice, laziness, and ambition. To be sure, someone in the conversation concedes, there are some good and sincere monks, but very, very few of them, and one may observe even those slowly drawn toward the fatal corruption that is virtually built into their vocation. \u201cPoggio,\u201d who represents himself as a character in the dialogue, argues that hypocrisy is better at least than open violence, but his friend Aliotti, an abbot, responds that it is worse, since everyone can perceive the horror of a confessed rapist or murderer, but it is more difficult to defend oneself against a sly deceiver. How is it possible then to identify hypocrites? After all, if they are good at their simulations, it is very difficult to distinguish the frauds from genuinely holy figures. The dialogue lists the warning signs. You should be suspicious of anyone who displays an excessive purity of life; walks barefoot through the streets, with a dirty face and shabby robes; shows in public a disdain for money; always has the name of Jesus Christ on his lips; wants to be called good, without actually doing anything particularly good; attracts women to him to satisfy his wishes; runs here and there outside his monastery, seeking fame and honors; makes a show of fasting and other ascetic practices; induces others to get things for himself; refuses to acknowledge or return what is given to him in trust. Virtually any priest or monk who is at the curia is a hypocrite, writes Poggio, for it is impossible to fulfill the highest purposes of religion there. And if you happen at the curia to see someone who is particularly abject in his humility, beware: he is not merely a hypocrite but the worst hypocrite of all. In general, you should be wary of people who seem too perfect, and remember that it is actually quite difficult to be good: \u201cDifficile est bonum esse.\u201d Against the Hypocrites is a work written not in the wake of Martin Luther by a Reformation polemicist but a century earlier, by a papal bureaucrat living and working at the center of the Roman Catholic hierarchy. It indicates that the Church, though it could and did respond violently to what it perceived as doctrinal or institutional challenges, was willing to tolerate extremely sharp critiques from within, including critiques from secular figures like Poggio. And it indicates too that Poggio and his fellow humanists in the curia struggled to channel their anger and disgust into more than obscene laughter and violent quarrels with one another. How different that is from the view of the Church that I had: uniform, stern, unheeding of its weaknesses. As with every subject Greenblatt covers here, I came away with a more nuanced view. To be alive is to be complex, contradictory, and unresolved, and in those ways and others Greenblatt makes the history come alive. Once I realized what Greenblatt was doing, I luxuriated in this book. It's well-written, forceful yet able to linger over the right details, and makes me want to both read the poem and learn the penmanship of Paggio Bracciolini. And, of course, yearn to be alive back then when you could travel into the wilds of Germany or Poland and return with a great manuscript that nobody had ever seen before--Paggio found Vitruvius, the incredible Roman architect, among many others. Absolutely worth every star. ...more Supposing you were fluent in ancient and modern Latin as well as French, Spanish, and Italian, and of course Greek; that you had trained yourself to be focused and swift at your work and to make a minimum of errors; and further that your handwriting was acknowledged to be particularly clear and elegant. Nowadays you would have a lengthy career in valet parking to look forward to. But in the early 15th century you might find yourself as the equivalent of senior speechwriter for the pope. This was Supposing you were fluent in ancient and modern Latin as well as French, Spanish, and Italian, and of course Greek; that you had trained yourself to be focused and swift at your work and to make a minimum of errors; and further that your handwriting was acknowledged to be particularly clear and elegant. Nowadays you would have a lengthy career in valet parking to look forward to. But in the early 15th century you might find yourself as the equivalent of senior speechwriter for the pope. This was the job of Poggio Bracciolini, until Pope John XXIII was unthroned and Poggio found himself an unemployment statistic. (Pope John XXIII is better known as Antipope John XXIII or, to some, John XXII. See Gibbon.) Since Poggio was already in Germany for the Council of Constance, which deposed his man, he took to the road to look for old books. In those days there weren\u2019t a lot of bookstores and public libraries, so he went to monasteries where he was able to find and rescue from oblivion numerous copies of ancient Greek and Latin works from their libraries before the monks palimpsested them, scraped the letters off the vellum and reused it for Bibles and prayer books. One of the ancient books he found was Lucretius\u2019 On the Nature of Things. The Swerve is about Poggio\u2019s discovery and the effect the revival of that book and others like it had on the late medieval world, leading to what we call the Renaissance. There are a lot of reasons to read this lengthy essay by Stephen Goldblatt, his limpid prose style for one and his short history of the decline of the Roman Empire for another. But what I most enjoyed was the explanation of what is in De Rerum Natura, atomism and the Epicurian philosophy, and how these idea led to the Renaissance and eventually to the Age of Reason. Poggio wasn\u2019t the only book hunter. In the mid-14th century, Petrarch was a book lover: \u201cGold, silver, jewels, purple garments, houses built of marble, groomed estates, pious paintings, caparisoned steeds, and other things of this kind offer a mutable and superficial pleasure; books give delight to the very marrow of one\u2019s bones. They speak to us, consult with us, and join with us in a living and intense intimacy.\u201d Poggio tells the sad story of the decline of western civilization into the dark ages. Says Goldblatt: \u201cThe other libraries of the ancient world fared no better than [the great library in, Alexandria.] A survey of Rome in the early fourth century listed twenty-eight public libraries, in addition to the unnumbered private collections in aristocratic mansions. Near the century\u2019s end, the historian Ammianus Marcellinus complained that Romans had virtually abandoned serious reading. Ammianus was not lamenting barbarian raids or Christian fanaticism. No doubt these were at work, somewhere in the background of the phenomena that struck him. But what he observed, as the empire slowly crumbled, was a loss of cultural moorings, a descent into febrile triviality. \u2018In place of the philosopher the singer is called in, and in place of the orator the teacher of stagecraft, and while the libraries are shut up forever like tombs, water-organs are manufactured and lyres as large as carriages.\u2019 Moreover, he noted, sourly, people were driving their chariots at lunatic speed through the crowded streets.\u201d Mutatis mutandis. ...more This book has several purposes, and I think it's only successful in one of them. Greenblatt wants the reader to appreciate Lucretius, and that's good, and I think he pulls that off. Greenblatt also wants you to think that Lucretius made us \"modern,\" and that's silly, and he fails. What he really does is show us that \"modern\" (for him) means pleasure-seeking, \"rational\" (i.e., preferring science to religion), and free of anxiety. As you can see, we're only \"modern\" in the first of those senses. A This book has several purposes, and I think it's only successful in one of them. Greenblatt wants the reader to appreciate Lucretius, and that's good, and I think he pulls that off. Greenblatt also wants you to think that Lucretius made us \"modern,\" and that's silly, and he fails. What he really does is show us that \"modern\" (for him) means pleasure-seeking, \"rational\" (i.e., preferring science to religion), and free of anxiety. As you can see, we're only \"modern\" in the first of those senses. Another of Greenblatt's purposes is to celebrate the forgotten humanist Poggio Bracciolini, and Humanism in general, and tell a very shopworn (and one-sided) story about how Institutional Christianity Is Bad. However, by the end of the book, one sees that Poggio was not an especially interesting or likeable person, and Greenblatt never explains how most of the Humanists he writes about tried to marry what was good about Epicurus (and the rest of the ancient world) with what was good about Christianity. For Greenblatt, Christians are either guilt-ridden, reason-hating maniacs or hedonistic hypocrites, and it's better to just be a hedonistic non-hypocrite. I've heard stories that back in the '70s Greenblatt used to go hot-tubbing with Michel Foucault. Greenblatt also suggests that being \"modern\" means not feeling bad about being rich and living very comfortably and even luxuriously. That's not \"modern\" at all; it's fairly perennial, but it's still worth thinking about. This is may way of saying that there's pretty much no attention to the social in this book and the consequences of these ideas for anyone other than intellectuals. The best sentence in this book is, \"With his contrasting vision of anxious, work-obsessed, overly disciplined Italians and happy-go-lucky, carefree Germans, Poggio believed he glimpsed for a moment the Epicurean pursuit of pleasure as the highest good.\" Someone could write a great book about how and when the Italians and Germans exchanged cultures. ...more This is an interesting book, primarily about the poem On the Nature of Things by Lucretius. Much of the book is describes the life of Poggio Bracciolini, a very unusual man for his time; he was a classical scholar, who searched abbeys for rare books. In the early 15th century, he discovered On the Nature of Things and re-copied and translated the poem. Despite the fact that the poem was heretical to the Catholic Church, Bracciolini helped to distribute the poem, which gradually liberalized the p This is an interesting book, primarily about the poem On the Nature of Things by Lucretius. Much of the book is describes the life of Poggio Bracciolini, a very unusual man for his time; he was a classical scholar, who searched abbeys for rare books. In the early 15th century, he discovered On the Nature of Things and re-copied and translated the poem. Despite the fact that the poem was heretical to the Catholic Church, Bracciolini helped to distribute the poem, which gradually liberalized the philosophy of Western Civilization. This is the most interesting part of the book, which describes the Church's reactions to the poem, and the Church's desperate attempts to suppress it. The Swerve also claims that the re-discovery of the poem helped to fuel the Renaissance, and had an influence on artists, scientists, philosophers and writers. I was not quite as persuaded by this part of the book. ...more However beautifully told--and it is--I think the main thrust of Greenblatt's history, that the discovery in 1417 of Lucretius's long lost poem On the Nature of Things changed the course of history might be a little overstated. We were going to arrive at who we are without Lucretius and I have reservations about saying the rediscovery of him and his philosophically enlightened poem by Bracciolini on the cusp of the Renaissance speeded up the acquiring of knowledge or helped beat back the tides of However beautifully told--and it is--I think the main thrust of Greenblatt's history, that the discovery in 1417 of Lucretius's long lost poem On the Nature of Things changed the course of history might be a little overstated. We were going to arrive at who we are without Lucretius and I have reservations about saying the rediscovery of him and his philosophically enlightened poem by Bracciolini on the cusp of the Renaissance speeded up the acquiring of knowledge or helped beat back the tides of superstition which had covered the medieval world. The understanding we have of the natural world would have come. We can still find superstition everywhere around us in modern societies. The book's magnificence lies in the portraits of the principals of the story Greenblatt tells, men like Poggio Bracciolini himself, Giordano Bruno, Galileo, and the various popes. And also in his portrait of the world they lived in. It's a good telling of unfamiliar history. ...more This here, IMHO, is a case of 'not as a good as the real thing', namely De Rerum Natura/On the Nature of Things by Lucretius and, more so, the teachings of the old man himself: Epicurus (must. refrain. from. adding. a. <3. behind. his. name). I'll have to give Greenblatt this; starting with that gorgeous cover, he definitely knows how to sell a book! The title, subtitle, blurb, and that excellent foreword swept me up in a wave of excitement. Oh! But could it really be that this one long lost This here, IMHO, is a case of 'not as a good as the real thing', namely De Rerum Natura/On the Nature of Things by Lucretius and, more so, the teachings of the old man himself: Epicurus (must. refrain. from. adding. a. <3. behind. his. name). I'll have to give Greenblatt this; starting with that gorgeous cover, he definitely knows how to sell a book! The title, subtitle, blurb, and that excellent foreword swept me up in a wave of excitement. Oh! But could it really be that this one long lost poem influenced, kick-started even, Renaissance thinking? Well, Greenblatt turns out to offer only the palest of evidence that On the Nature of Things was of any importance during the Renaissance. Although his writing is often compelling, I can't help but feel that parts of The Swerve are simply padding. This, in combination with The Swerve not really delivering on its promises, made me feel a teeny weeny bit deflated. ...more I am blown away. Not so much by Poggio and his book hunting bounty, although that was interesting and gives me an appreciation for what does remain of ancient texts. I now take great pleasure in calling myself an Epicurean, which has greater meaning than just atheism, and sounds much nicer too. Winner of the 2012 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction <+++>The Swerve: How the World Became Modern</+++> by Stephen Greenblatt reconstructs history by showing the reader the reciprocal effect history and literature has on each other. Greenblatt re-imagines a time when human civilization was emerging from the darkness by reaching back to the past and uncovering the creation of the Renaissance and the Humanist\u2019s movement. What Greenblatt initially reveals is the beginning of the Early Modern Period throug Winner of the 2012 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction The Swerve: How the World Became Modern by Stephen Greenblatt reconstructs history by showing the reader the reciprocal effect history and literature has on each other. Greenblatt re-imagines a time when human civilization was emerging from the darkness by reaching back to the past and uncovering the creation of the Renaissance and the Humanist\u2019s movement. What Greenblatt initially reveals is the beginning of the Early Modern Period through ancient text. This book strikes a chord for book lovers, scholars; classicist, early modernist, and even modern scholars. It conjures up a late medieval romance of digging through monasteries and hidden chambers of West\u2019s past. This book works as a retelling of an archeological process illuminating a story that has shaped the way our modern minds think. The struggle of a secular society versus a religious society. It explores atheism, Christianity, Paganism. Blending per-Christian ideas with a dominating Roman Catholic imperialism of the fifteenth century. It certainly has been a while since I have picked up a nonfiction book. However, while I do a lot of focused scholarly writing, I also spend a good amount of time reading essays and scholarly criticism; never had I set down to read a complete nonfiction piece in the past year of the magnitude. I have read Greenblatt\u2019s Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare . It was a great read and much praise to Greenblatt\u2019s achievement and skills at recreating history for his readers. The big argument I feel that comes up with most of Greenblatt's work his is use of hedging and the use of possible\u2014I thoroughly enjoy this style. Certainty for a history enthusiast they would question his development; I feel the work Greenblatt creates revives historical events and opens the past\u2019s door for more scholarly inquires. With this form of Cultural Poetics an author can unravel the past, plus point out the untouched specks that have been brushed aside throughout history. My initial reaction to The Swerve was the involvement the book demands. The book, opens with a great story of a book hunter and immediately the reader is transported back in time. This book achieves its goal of Greenblatt\u2019s ever expanding world of Cultural Poetics. He creates a world that is non linear, and unravels the cause and effect approach to history. He allows the reader to enter the minds of the great scholars of the past. Most importantly, Greenblatt makes you\u2014me\u2014want to go book hunting. I recently went to a local used book store a couple of weeks ago and ran across a Penguin Classics version of Lucretius\u2019 On the Nature of the Universe and immediately picked it up. Of course I haven\u2019t fallen into to it yet but it certainly is on my list. Initially, great scholarship makes you want to go back and read the works it criticizes and illuminates; The Swerve does just that. There are few flaws as I will give this a five star rating. One flaw\u2014I'm surely in no position to point out flaws in Greenblatt's work\u2014he does leave a lot to be desired from a classical scholars point of view. Yes, it does make a classical scholar happy to know that one of theirs is responsible for the way we think today, but it does fall short in the department of really proving that and that might be case and point to read Lucretius in the first place. However, lovers of Classical Latin will enjoy the discussion and the amazing ability of the Early Modern Period's ways of text preservation. This books has something for every type of literary scholar and even any type of scholar in general. Great Author, Great Book. Exerts: \"Humans, Aristotle wrote, are social animals: to realize one's nature as a human then was to participate in a group activity. And the activity of choice, for cultivated Romans, as for the Greeks before them, was discourse\" (69). Greenblatt accentuates for the reader the connection of human interest\u2014one being discourse. So when we think about the past or even the future, humans are always involved in a conversation either in the present or in the past whether we like it or not; we are always acting and reacting to what has come before in order to reveal what will come in the future. \"One simple name for the plague that Lucretius brought\u2014a charge frequently leveled against him, when his poem began once again to be read\u2014is atheism. But Lucretius was not in fact an atheist. He believed that the gods existed. But he also believed that, by virtue of being gods, they could not possibly be connected with human beings or with anything we do\" (183). There are many moments throughout this book that give prominence to the lifestyle of past philosophers in conjunction with the Roman Catholic Church of the Renaissance while juxtaposing both of these worlds vividly. Greenblatt shows the contrast between the two worlds of thought and struggle which was contained in the power of words. This Review can also be viewed at http://rjp3common.blogspot.com/ ...more A fascinating book in a lot of ways, a relatively easy read, and very informative about church politics in the 15th century. It just isn't what I expected it to be--a discussion of the thought and influence of Lucretius' poem On the Nature of Things . Actually, it does finally become that in the last 100 pages, and in spite of a little simplifying, it's a very good summary. I just expected more. Mostly the book is the story of one Poggio Bracciolini, private secretary to a pope, who was an avid b A fascinating book in a lot of ways, a relatively easy read, and very informative about church politics in the 15th century. It just isn't what I expected it to be--a discussion of the thought and influence of Lucretius' poem On the Nature of Things . Actually, it does finally become that in the last 100 pages, and in spite of a little simplifying, it's a very good summary. I just expected more. Mostly the book is the story of one Poggio Bracciolini, private secretary to a pope, who was an avid bibliophile and, inspired by the example of Petrarch, traveled all over Europe in search of lost classical manuscripts. He discovered several, but the prize was one lone copy of Lucretius' poem, previously pretty much unknown. He had it copied and sent to a book-collector friend. Further copies disseminated from there. One of the most influential poems in European history survived by a single thread. The poem begins the movement of what is still being called \"secular humanism,\" and if you want a quick sketch of exactly what conservative Christians today are still upset about, just read Greenblatt's summary of Lucretius' main points: nothing exists except atoms and the void; the soul does not survive the body; there is no heaven, hell, or afterlife of any kind; there is no Providence in the workings of the world; it's all purposeless and random; happiness consists in realizing these things and quietly accepting them while enjoying what you can of present life. Greenblatt goes on to point out that there is obviously no room for anything like \"intelligent design.\" In the 15-16th centuries, these ideas were, as he puts it, \"compellingly vital and...utterly weird.\" Nobody talked about them openly for fear of what he unabashedly calls \"the ecclesiastical thought police.\" All this is fascinating to me, as is his description of how the poem took hold. Shakespeare, Spenser, and Milton all were familiar with these ideas. Ben Jonson, Montaigne, Thomas More, Erasmus all had copies. Thomas Jefferson had at least five, along with translations into French, English, and Italian. A complete copy exists which in 1961 was conclusively proved to be the handwriting of Machiavelli. But all this is the last 100 pages of the book. The first parts are also interesting, but have little to do with the book's explanatory subtitle. They describe Poggio's activities in detail, the classical milieu in which the poem was written, the history of the transmission of manuscripts, and long descriptions of church politics in the 15th century, culminating in a recounting of the Council of Constance in 1414-1418, at which (among many other things) the three men who insisted they were all the pope were deposed and a single replacement was named. Readers interested in the incredibly corrupt and hypocritical Vatican at this time (what Poggio himself called the \"Bugiale\" \"The Lie Factory\") will be amply rewarded. I thought it was interesting, but it had little to do with the claimed subject of the book. ...more I came to this work, caution my armor, having heard that it was a bit speculative. I just finished reading Lucretius, and having seen that this book has been widely read, I decided it would be fun to read a modern perspective on the poet. But some speculative proposals were not the only problems with this book. First, the title is completely misleading. \"The Swerve\" is a direct reference to the action Lucretius's ancient atoms commit in order to produce the physical world we see. Greenblatt spend I came to this work, caution my armor, having heard that it was a bit speculative. I just finished reading Lucretius, and having seen that this book has been widely read, I decided it would be fun to read a modern perspective on the poet. But some speculative proposals were not the only problems with this book. First, the title is completely misleading. \"The Swerve\" is a direct reference to the action Lucretius's ancient atoms commit in order to produce the physical world we see. Greenblatt spends part of one chapter discussing different aspects of the poem of which the \"swerve\" has only a small part. The subtitle, \"How the World became Modern\", is discussed in exactly the last 9% of the book (by Kindle measurements). The first 91% is semi-centered around Poggio, the Renaissance gentleman that put Lucretius back in circulation. The most prominent problem with this 91%, was the way Greenblatt used historical events as a platform for increasing the appeal of materialism. Christian thought is presented in a one-dimensional, completely misunderstood light. All the sins of the church are exploited. Christian leaders who did not seek to suppress thought are skipped over to spotlight persecuted \"pagans\". The few Christians displayed sympathetically are the ones who were charged with heresy by the Church and burned. Did some of these things happen? Yes. The Church is still suffering from the affects of some of these events. But they are not the only things that occurred. This seemingly single-minded focus led me to believe that Greenblatt had a secondary agenda, and was not simply seeking to tell a good story about the \"discovery\" of Lucretius. That said, Greenblatt has enjoyable writing skills. For that, I give the book 2 stars. ...more", "Title": "The Swerve: How the World Became Modern"},
