{"Comments": "Excerpt from the journal of <---A>Neal Stephenson</---A>. What have I done? I must have been out of my mind to think that I could write a trilogy set in the late 17th and early 18th century that used three main fictional characters to explore the political and religious intrigue of the time as well as the development of the first stages of modern science and economics. If that wasn\u2019t enough of a challenge, I had to incorporate a bit of science fiction by including my ageless character Enoch Root and hints tha Excerpt from the journal of Neal Stephenson. What have I done? I must have been out of my mind to think that I could write a trilogy set in the late 17th and early 18th century that used three main fictional characters to explore the political and religious intrigue of the time as well as the development of the first stages of modern science and economics. If that wasn\u2019t enough of a challenge, I had to incorporate a bit of science fiction by including my ageless character Enoch Root and hints that the alchemy of the day may have been on to something. Oh,<---M> and just to complicate it even more</---M>, I made the brilliant decision to have one of my main characters from Quicksilver be in the midst of the late stages of syphilis as well as being captured by pirates. What was I thinking?? I\u2019m going to need Jack to get me out of this mess, and I effectively killed him in the last book.<---F> OK, let\u2019s think this through</---F>. Where did I leave it? <---C>Eliza</---C> had seemingly managed to outwit King Louie and help William of Orange with her spying efforts, but she now had a child out of wedlock that she has to hide. In 1713, Daniel Waterhouse had been recruited from his home in Massachusetts by Enoch Root to go back to England and mediate the dispute between Isaac Newtown and Leibniz, but his ship was being pursued by a pirate fleet. Back in the late 1600s, the younger Daniel Waterhouse had helped to bring about the Glorious Revolution, but was dying from a stone in his bladder. And of course, Half-Cocked Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds, had let his pride come between him and Eliza. Which shouldn\u2019t matter because he would soon be dead from syphilis as well as being captured by pirates. Now, here\u2019s what I need to get to in the second book: (*) Eliza needs to be essentially held hostage by the French nobility who know she spied for William, but they\u2019ll still need her financial talents to help fund their war efforts. (*) I want to use that set-up to have Eliza run a complicated financial scheme to get revenge for what\u2019s been done to her. (*) Since I flashed forward to an older Daniel Waterhouse at the beginning of Quicksilver , the readers will know that he ultimately survived having the stone. But I really don\u2019t have a lot for him to do here. This is mainly Eliza and Jack\u2019s story, and I won\u2019t need him until the next book. (*) Since the last book focused more on the Royal Society and science, this one is going to be more about economics. I can use Eliza and her on-going palace intrigues for that. Also, I can circle back to Isaac Newton and him taking over the Royal Mint. Wait a second! I can bring Daniel into that story. That\u2019ll give him something to do. (*) I also need to tie up the loose ends with Jack\u2019s brother, Bob, who had gotten involved with Eliza and Daniel to free the woman he loved from slavery. Oh, hell. I forgot about Jack\u2019s two sons. At this point, they\u2019d be grown men. I gotta bring them into the story at some point. (*) It\u2019s time to bring the alchemical stuff to a boil. I\u2019ve got an idea about legendary gold that King Solomon created that had unique properties. The acquisition of this gold should be a driving force to the plot, but I can\u2019t figure out how to work it in. (*) And here\u2019s where I\u2019m really stuck. I was going to have Jack roam the world and get involved in various wild schemes with a crew of misfits. They could have had a series of adventures. That would have been a great place to tie the gold into it as well as do a plot where the nobles are still hunting him for his actions in France that would put Eliza in a dangerous position. Plus, I could have done a lot of great action stuff with Jack as a globe trotting adventurer. But no. I had to get cute and give him syphilis. (*) So I\u2019m completely screwed unless I come up with some bullshit way for them to cure syphilis in the late 1600s. How am I going to\u2026.. Hold on. Just had a thought. Could I get away with that? Why not? I\u2019m Neal Stephenson, goddamnit! I can do anything! (*) One thing is for sure, I\u2019ve got a pretty accurate title: <+++>The Confusion</+++> . ...more Wow, I can't even remember when I started this book, 800+ pages as the second book in the 2400+ page The Baroque Cycle trilogy. I feel like a water-skier being pulled by a boat--sections have pulled me along thrillingly with wake-jumping stunts and all. The last couple of hundred pages moved like this. Other parts could not hold my interest, as if the boat didn't have enough power to pull me up out of the water--I have put this one down for months at a time and had to consciously make efforts to Wow, I can't even remember when I started this book, 800+ pages as the second book in the 2400+ page The Baroque Cycle trilogy. I feel like a water-skier being pulled by a boat--sections have pulled me along thrillingly with wake-jumping stunts and all. The last couple of hundred pages moved like this. Other parts could not hold my interest, as if the boat didn't have enough power to pull me up out of the water--I have put this one down for months at a time and had to consciously make efforts to pick it back up. I am floored by the scope of these novels. I have grown insanely curious about the next book Stephenson may or may not be writing, wondering what could possibly follow. Tada! His Wikipedia page says it is named \" Anathem \" and said to be a \"space opera\". I can't wait, but I still have System of the World to go. Stephenson is able to simply relate, often something like a Socratic dialogue, descriptions of complicated material, glossing over just enough detail to not lose you but including enough that the uninitiated still understand important concepts--encryption in Cryptonomicon; the workings of computers in most of his novels; markets, trade, and financial mechanisms in this trilogy. Surprising me was the explanation of Liebniz' monadology. I studied Liebniz' philosophies somewhat extensively in college, but now I feel as if I missed the entire point. More likely is that my viewpoint has changed--most likely I was put off by Liebniz' pious lexicon, or perhaps one of the courses was biased toward him being overshadowed by Kant. I now have the desire to reread some of his work. I have a renewed interest in history as well--I read with a vague sense of familiarity, but I wish I retained more from high school European history. Some Wikipedia surfing is in my future--I am especially curious what parts of the novel are history and what parts are artistic license. On to The System of the World. ...more finished the reread of Confusion and while the short review I wrote on the original read is still relevant, the book like the whole Baroque cycle benefits so much on the reread as now I can appreciate the little details too; this being said, <+++>The Confusion</+++> (the title word itself having quite a few apparitions in the text as the \"transition\" word from the old to the new) is the most epic adventure/intrigue/picaresque novel of the three, told in chronological order alternating between action in Eur finished the reread of Confusion and while the short review I wrote on the original read is still relevant, the book like the whole Baroque cycle benefits so much on the reread as now I can appreciate the little details too; this being said, The Confusion (the title word itself having quite a few apparitions in the text as the \"transition\" word from the old to the new) is the most epic adventure/intrigue/picaresque novel of the three, told in chronological order alternating between action in Europe from Eliza's pov with a few interludes from Daniel - under the heading Juncto - and action across the world (from Algiers and Cairo to India, Japan and much more) from Jack and his Cabal of Barbary Coast galley slaves with a (desperate) plan to get free and rich - under the heading Bonanza the action starts immediately at the end of Odalisque (third part of Quicksilver) just after the Glorious Revolution in 1689 and ends in 1702 at the start of the second round of the war of Leroy (as the Sun King is colloquially known to Jack especially since their memorable personal encounter at a Paris party of 1685) against the rest of the (European) world (this round known as the Spanish Succession war) large scale, full of dramatic action, incredible escapes, double crosses, continual reversals of fortunes (in Mogul India, Jack even becomes a temporary king which makes him a sort of cousin of Leroy himself while Eliza, ennobled by both Leroy - ennobling involving a fake sexual encounter masking the king's hemorrhoid surgery - and his nemesis William of Orange - ennobling involving this time a real intimate encounter though of the kind doable with either men or women as William is impartial there and even invites his handsome personal squire to watch and \"take notes\" as it were - needs to consolidate her position as her enemies are still of higher rank and ready to pounce) and all around fun, with some of the best secondary characters in fiction - some of which we actually have encountered in the future/present (1713-4) part that starts the trilogy in Quicksilver (novel and part 1 of the same name) not realizing who they are So after a book starting in Boston 1713 and alternating between that and the personal story of Daniel Waterhouse (and Isaac Newton) from the 1650's to 1673, jumping to 1683, the Siege of Vienna and Jack saving a harem slave of the Grand Vizier and then having her quickly take charge of their joint fortunes and traveling Europe together and then apart until 1685 and Jack's ill considered decision to enter the slave trade (and Eliza's emphatic response to that) and then a third book following Eliza's ascent in Europe and Daniel's conspiring to bring a newfangled revolution in England until 1689, tales which connect but also jump sometimes in disconcerting ways - especially on first read - Confusion by its chapter split between its two tales brings a different and more coherent feel to the book while offering the most spectacular action of the trilogy These two volumes (Quicksilver and The Confusion) in 5 parts and 3 tales offer together a fairly coherent story with a clear (temporary) ending (though again we know from the beginning that we will have action in 1713-1714) and are as spectacular and exciting as anything I've read (2008 review on first read) Superb sequel to Quicksilver. Continues the (mis) adventures of Jack Shaftoe and an assorted odd group of Pirate slaves that conceive a crazy plan to get freedom and a treasure, plan that develops a hitch when one of Jack's noble sworn enemies turns out to be involved deeply in. In the other main thread Elisa is still looking to establish herself in high society and revenge on the unknown noble that led to her and her mother's enslavement. On the way we have tragedy, joy, action and lots of digressions of the creation of money and the modern banking system, with the natural philosophy more in the background than in the first volume. Excellent. ...more knjiga je mrvicu slabija od prethodne, ali i dalje urnebesna, nevjerojatna, sumanuta i na trenutke mu\u010dna, kao vo\u017enja na rollercoasteru. 4.5 The Confusion is a typical second book of an atypical trilogy, and that is not at all a criticism. The second book of trilogies always bridge the gap between the first and the last with a focus on character, plot development and building the framework for the payoff. When this is done well, as with The Two Towers , the second installment can hold its own with any installment in the trilogy; when this is done very well, as with Empire Strikes Back (I apologize for the movie reference), it can outs The Confusion is a typical second book of an atypical trilogy, and that is not at all a criticism. The second book of trilogies always bridge the gap between the first and the last with a focus on character, plot development and building the framework for the payoff. When this is done well, as with The Two Towers , the second installment can hold its own with any installment in the trilogy; when this is done very well, as with Empire Strikes Back (I apologize for the movie reference), it can outshine any installment in the trilogy. When it comes to Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle , I am not sure which of these two models The Confusion follows, but it is, at least, one of them. And now I will digress: I have heard from many that this is one of the most original works they have ever read. I don't doubt that it is the most original work that these folks have read, but that doesn't make it \"original.\" Saying that it is not original is again, however, not a criticism, and it is certainly not a failing in Stephenson's work. I love Stephenson's Cycle, but as a fan of classic literature, particularly the work of Hugo and Dumas, I know that Stephenson is borrowing greatly from his forebears (who were borrowing from theirs, like Cervantes). I cannot stress enough that this is not a bad thing. It is what makes Stephenson's series compulsively readable. Everything old is new again, to borrow an old cliche. Which is precisely what makes The Baroque Cycle so \"original\" for today's audiences. It is sprawling, larger than any possible life, packed full of historical figures made characters, it is fiction and fact writ together as crazed adventure. What Stephenson does is brilliant, modernizing classic story-telling forms to remind us just how great the classics remain. Anyone who loves a good yarn or just plain loves books should read the Cycle and revel in its sheer audacious brilliance. But don't tell me it has never been done before. Just read it, love it and then start reading everyone who came before. ...more I couldn't finish this, and I am not one who is daunted by the size of a book. I should have been warned when I picked it up the first time after having finished reading a novel written by somebody with a more poetic sense of language and thinking, \"Wow, this is ugly writing.\" I was continually frustrated by the long passages where plot points are explained by the characters to each other (and clunky dialog for that matter), where characters seem to have no inner life (for all the alleged intell I couldn't finish this, and I am not one who is daunted by the size of a book. I should have been warned when I picked it up the first time after having finished reading a novel written by somebody with a more poetic sense of language and thinking, \"Wow, this is ugly writing.\" I was continually frustrated by the long passages where plot points are explained by the characters to each other (and clunky dialog for that matter), where characters seem to have no inner life (for all the alleged intelligence of the characters, you never see somebody wondering, or imagining, or experimenting, or figuring things out for themselves; not even the ones who end up explaining things to others), and where there is no passion expressed for anything (not sex, nor research, nor discovery). As a discussion of some interesting concepts about math or financial dealing, it's not bad. As a novel, though, it's dreadful. Reading it felt like trying to put together a moderately intricate jigsaw puzzle whose creator hadn't sanded or polished the pieces, nor used any color in the picture itself. Stephenson has always had this problem to some degree, but usually there's enough story and character to make it worthwhile. Sometimes I get the feeling that because he is a smart guy, that editors and some readers feel like whatever they find tedious or verbose must just be because they don't understand. For this book, I don't think it's the case. In Quicksilver I half hoped that the length of the book was because it was written in the kind of coding discussed in the book, and I found the intersecting stories interesting. In The Confusion I no longer cared and quit even though I was most of the way through. ...more Fantastic book! As long as _Quicksilver_, this book feels shorter. There is less natural philosophy and more swashbuckling (including a complete circumnavigation of the globe). There's a bit about the alchemical properties of King Solomon's gold and some pre-Enlightenment chemical engineering. Additionally, there is a significant amount of banking, as many of the events in the book orbit the disintegration of the traditional feudal land economy of Europe and the rise to dominance of a market eco Fantastic book! As long as _Quicksilver_, this book feels shorter. There is less natural philosophy and more swashbuckling (including a complete circumnavigation of the globe). There's a bit about the alchemical properties of King Solomon's gold and some pre-Enlightenment chemical engineering. Additionally, there is a significant amount of banking, as many of the events in the book orbit the disintegration of the traditional feudal land economy of Europe and the rise to dominance of a market economy driven by international trade. We also are clued in to the conceptualization and creation of the first computing machines. Other than that, this novel is all over the place. So far, The Baroque Cycle is a really great story. Give it a chance if you have a lot of time on your hands. ...more Deeper into the wordy quagmire that is Neal Stephenson\u2019s Baroque Cycle. As with Quicksilver , this volume contains a considerable dose of magical moments dissolved in a nearly impenetrable sea of overdone gibberish. It\u2019s brilliant gibberish, but not brilliant enough to make this book shine the way I typically expect from Stephenson. While enhancing the Baroque Cycle\u2019s thematic strengths and moving the saga forward in promising ways, The Confusion is ultimately every bit as languorous as Quicksi Deeper into the wordy quagmire that is Neal Stephenson\u2019s Baroque Cycle. As with Quicksilver , this volume contains a considerable dose of magical moments dissolved in a nearly impenetrable sea of overdone gibberish. It\u2019s brilliant gibberish, but not brilliant enough to make this book shine the way I typically expect from Stephenson. While enhancing the Baroque Cycle\u2019s thematic strengths and moving the saga forward in promising ways, The Confusion is ultimately every bit as languorous as Quicksilver . This volume neglects the Baroque Cycle\u2019s most interesting plot thread\u2013\u2013Stephenson\u2019s fictionalized account of the intellectual development and personal squabbles of 17th century Europe\u2019s Enlightenment figures\u2013\u2013for nearly 500 pages. Daniel Waterhouse is the most maligned victim of Stephenson\u2019s overreach. Save a decidedly moving scene in which he brings a floundering Isaac Newton to his senses, Daniel\u2019s narrative is largely put on hold here. Our consolation is that the lives of Jack Shaftoe and Eliza of Qwghlm become more complex (if not always more interesting). These two signify the social upheaval and economic recalibration that swept through Europe (and the rest of the world, to varying extents) as the 17th century came to a close. They are the figureheads of Confusion, that great handmaiden of Progress. Jack Shaftoe, it turns out, is not dead. His body having purged itself of the maddening French Pox, Jack teams up with an eclectic cabal of similarly disenfranchised galley slaves to win their freedom. The antics of this motley bunch are variously inspiring, puzzling, and yawn-inducing. During the decade leading up to 1700, they gallivant through Barbary, the Middle East, \u201cHindoostan,\u201d the Far East, and the New World, before returning to Europe. Along the way, they manage to steal a boatload of \u201cmagic gold,\u201d which enhances Jack\u2019s already considerable mystique as Europe\u2019s most audacious rapscallion. Jack solidifies his reputation as a ruthless pragmatist, and his diverse gang of freedom-seekers serves as Stephenson\u2019s metaphorical conduit for inserting a modern sense of self-determination into a thoroughly antiquated historical setting. As a general idea, it\u2019s clever and fun. Jack is charismatic and exhibits just enough moral complexity to pique my curiosity about how his unfolding odyssey will terminate. Unfortunately, his story is cluttered with bizarre, boring adventures that rarely influence the Baroque Cycle\u2019s overarching plot. Important events do happen, but slowly, ever so slowly . Eliza has grown on me. I wasn\u2019t sure how I felt about her after Quicksilver , but I think it\u2019s fair to say she propounds a strange sort of feminism after all, and isn\u2019t quite the bimbo with brains I thought she was. Similar to Jack, she is a vehicle for unlikely (but inevitable) fits of progress in a stifling world. She is unusually assertive and laudably subversive, but also tragically subject to the confines of Baroque gender roles. Her most intriguing quality is her relationship with the French aristocracy, which turns up its nose at her humble origins but can\u2019t deny her intellectual cunning and financial savvy. Despite her past, Eliza is eventually declared a Duchess by Louis XIV\u2013\u2013a historically significant concession that marks the decline of monarchic power and the rise of the mercantile class and free markets. Later, she marries (unhappily) into a very powerful French family. Though Eliza is forced to assume traditional wifely responsibilities, she retains her passion for independence, her economic acuity, and her steadfast hatred of the slave trade. She is a woman of contradictions sprung from traits and perspectives ahead of her time. Unfortunately, as with Jack\u2019s tale, Eliza\u2019s story is tarnished by Stephenson\u2019s inability to quell his discursive predilections. Ideas that could be communicated in a few carefully-chosen scenes get lost in a barrage of monetary minutiae, epistolary doldrums, and tiresome aristocratic bickering. Perhaps the saddest aspect of both Eliza and Jack is that they seem more coherent when understood as symbols rather than as actual people, a quality that makes for excellent intellectual fodder but prevents me from making an emotional commitment to them. The farther I fall down the Baroque Cycle\u2019s rabbit hole, the more I find myself begrudgingly enthralled by the project\u2019s scope, if not its nuts and bolts. Perhaps I am just desperate to justify my efforts after 1,700+ pages, with nearly 900 left to go. I\u2019ll stand by my claim that it\u2019s far from Stephenson\u2019s best work, but I\u2019m beginning to doubt that I will get to the end and feel I\u2019ve wasted my time. Despite its flaws, The Confusion concludes with a series of highly entertaining and genuinely meaningful flourishes, mostly having to do with Jack\u2019s return to England. Perhaps it\u2019s not too much to hope it all might come together in a climax most marvelous, one befitting Stephenson\u2019s ambitions and undeniable genius. This review was originally published on my blog, words&dirt . ...more As the Author\u2019s Note informs the reader, The Confusion is really two novels, merged (or, in a pun this novel rather over-uses, con-fused) into one by interlacing their chapters, Bonanza and Juncto , with respectively Jack and Eliza as main characters (Daniel remains somewhat in the background for this volume). Events begin some time (years for Jack, months for Eliza) after we left them in Quicksilver , and that proves to be something of a problem \u2013 after enjoying the previous novel more than I had As the Author\u2019s Note informs the reader, The Confusion is really two novels, merged (or, in a pun this novel rather over-uses, con-fused) into one by interlacing their chapters, Bonanza and Juncto , with respectively Jack and Eliza as main characters (Daniel remains somewhat in the background for this volume). Events begin some time (years for Jack, months for Eliza) after we left them in Quicksilver , and that proves to be something of a problem \u2013 after enjoying the previous novel more than I had been expecting to, I almost gave up on The Confusion because of the incredibly clunky way Stephenson catches up on what happened in the time that has passed. Stephenson is often praised as master of the infodump, but what we get here are a series of extremely clumsy dialogues that would have been cause of much eye-rolling even in a debut novel, but coming from someone who already has several novels under his belt and has shown that he can do better this is extremely annoying. He even has to give Jack amnesia for the sole purpose so that someone can narrate his own history back to him, which everything considered might be even worse than the infamous \u201cAs you know, Bob\u201d variety of infodumping because it is such an obvious and at the same time so very weak attempt to avoid it that it smacks of desperation. Fortunately, the novel eventually gets caught up and rolling, and things take a marked turn for the better compared to Quicksilver . Admittedly, the \u201cJuncto\u201d (Eliza) part of The Confusion still gets bogged down in the swamp of pointless details Stepenson drives the (often somewhat meagre) plot through as well as his continued attempts to be Deep and Meaningful; but then there are the chapters with Bob Shaftoe (Jack\u2019s brother) as protagonist who somewhat make up for that by presenting a rousing tale of love and vengeance in the context of English warfare at the period. And there is \u201cBonanza\u201d, the other part / novel making up The Confusion which again has Jack Shaftoe as protagonist and which is even better than \u201cKing of Vagabonds,\u201d the second part of Quicksilver . Jack travels not only in Europe this time, but gets to visit exotic places like India, the Americas and even Japan in a series of increasingly outrageously adventures, making and losing his fortunes several times over, acquiring the gold of Solomon and being chased for it by dastardly foes. He remains the lovable rogue throughout, and Stephenson thankfully does not skimp on the rogue part \u2013 Jack does not have many scruples in the pursuit of this goals, and is not someone even the most kindly inclined reader would enjoy spending time with. But he certainly is a lot of fun to read about, and more than once this particular reader wished Neal Stephenson had just written a neo-Picaresque novel with Jack as hero and dispensed with all the stuff about Science, Finances and Enlightenment \u2013 whose only real function is to give the author room to brag about the huge amount of mostly useless information he has accumulated \u2013 and focussed on travels, roguery and swashbuckling. I know, I know \u2013 I\u2019m sounding like a complete philistine here, but it\u2019s such a waste and a pity to see what could have been a splendid adventure novel buried under so much extraneous dross. Still, there is less dross here than in Quicksilver , so maybe there still is hope for Neal Stephenson, and the best volume of the Baroque Cycle is still to come. ...more I'm writing this review of Neal Stephenson's The Confusion after finishing it and the final book in his The Baroque Cycle . So you can be sure that this review is going to be full of the sort of specifics and vivid details that make book reviews interesting. And you can be sure that, if I didn't think the entire concept took away from the art of reading and writing, that last sentence would have an upside down exclamation mark at the end of it, opensarcasm.com style. My main problem with The Confu I'm writing this review of Neal Stephenson's The Confusion after finishing it and the final book in his The Baroque Cycle . So you can be sure that this review is going to be full of the sort of specifics and vivid details that make book reviews interesting. And you can be sure that, if I didn't think the entire concept took away from the art of reading and writing, that last sentence would have an upside down exclamation mark at the end of it, opensarcasm.com style. My main problem with The Confusion , as with the entire cycle, is the sheer amount of detail. It seems strange that I, as a lover of the nineteenth century novel, should ever voice this complaint. But there it is. There were some fantastic moments in The Confusion, full of action, suspense, and surprise, but I felt like, to get to them, I had to read through chapters and chapters of descriptions--nautical details, explanations of economic theory, or complete prose maps of cities from the arches of famous monuments to the consistency of the gravel streets to the filth of the underground sewers--that slowed my reading to a halting and tedious speed that could only be compared to the speed of a frail woman wading through tar in a heavy velvet ball gown. (It can only be compared to that: no other metaphor will do.) I feel as if I can't really fault Stephenson for this. If I forced my mind to focus, his descriptions or explanations were lively, controlled, and often witty, but my mind wanted to leave the tar-wading woman behind and get to the action. Though Stephenson's cast grew to include new and engaging characters like Moseh, the clever man with the plan, Dappa, the articulate linguist, and Jeronimo, the hot-headed warrior, and continued to develop characters from Quicksilver like the schemer Eliza and the sergeant Bob, Jack, the king of the vagabonds, dominated my interest in this installment of the cycle. Like the pirate that shares his name in the multimillion dollar motion picture franchise, Jack is a sort of chaotic neutral character with inimitable style that is constantly forced to choose between what is honorable and what the imp of perverse in his mind is selfishly egging him on to do. Though the reader knows Jack well and can likely predict which side he is going to choose, Jack is by no means predictable. He is far too cunning and wild to be predictable. Readers may know what he is going to choose, but never how he will choose it, and Jack's style makes him all about the \"how\". My strongest commendation for The Confusion is likely that, as soon as I finished it, I was more than eager to start the The System of the World . \"For every human being who is born into this universe is like a child who has been given a key to an infinite Library, written in cyphers that are more or less obscure, arranged by a scheme--of which we can at first know nothing, other than that there does appear to be some scheme--pervaded by a vapor, a spirit, a fragrance that reminds us that it was the work of our Father. Which does us no good whatever, other than to remind us, when we despair, that there is an underlying logic about it , that was understood once and can be again.\" \"People could only make sense of complicated matters through stories.\" ...more Zounds, and Zounds and Zounds yet again! This tis truly a Brick of a Book, as was Quicksilver. Tis not a quick read, but tis a joy to read! Alternating between the stories of Eliza, in the court of Louis the XIV, and English Royalty alike, and the story of Jack Shaftoe, AKA King of the Vagabonds, AKA Half-Cocked Jack, AKA Quicksilver, and his tale of Stolen gold. Jack goes 'round the globe with his Cabal which is ever dwindling. We also meet his sons this go around, along with his Brother Bob (w Zounds, and Zounds and Zounds yet again! This tis truly a Brick of a Book, as was Quicksilver. Tis not a quick read, but tis a joy to read! Alternating between the stories of Eliza, in the court of Louis the XIV, and English Royalty alike, and the story of Jack Shaftoe, AKA King of the Vagabonds, AKA Half-Cocked Jack, AKA Quicksilver, and his tale of Stolen gold. Jack goes 'round the globe with his Cabal which is ever dwindling. We also meet his sons this go around, along with his Brother Bob (who. spends some time with Eliza, and also sometime reuniting with his Purloined Love!). In the middle of all this, Daniel Waterhouse has not been forgotten, but is more in the background for most of this. Truthfully, Neal Stephenson has not heard \"Brevity is the sould of Wit\", I presume, as this is the antithisis of brevity, yet loses none of it's Wit. I am getting near the Summit of this Mountain of a Novel, fully realizing that there 'tis one more Mountain to climb! Ye gods, the THINGS this man knows. The history of Science, the History of Math, the History of Money, and History itself. Ye gaods yet again, the SCOPE of this. We go from England, to Ireland, to France, to India, to Egypt, to The Barbary Coast, and to The Phllipines (not necessarily in that order). This book makes me wish I know more Math, more Science, more History, More Economics and more Languages. I fear I have not journaled this noivel like I did Quicksliver, and for that I am sorry. But, I think at this time I am merely TIRED from this book. Not tired OF it, no, I shall prevail and tackle this as soon as I read the remaining 100 pages, and Vol 3 comes in the mail! When I finihs this whole 3 volume novel, methinks I shall read some short stories. Some Comic book. Some Limericks or Haikus maybe, I know not. But, in the not too distant future, I have some bricks of books that call my name, encluding more of Neals eventually. (Egads! ALL of his books seem to be bricks!) I think the next of his I shall read is Cryptonomican. (A book of this title is referred to in these volumes) Back to Jack, who tis mid Pacific somewhere or the other as I sit here! Zounds, yet one more time! I have finished this 2nd Brick of a Book, I have reach the Summit of this Mountain of a Book, for it has ended! And what a glorious end it was!. Now I am off to learn of The System of the World! Avast! ...more This is the second volume in Stephenson 's Baroque cycle. At the end of the last book, Half Cocked Jack was a Galley Slave off the Barbary Coast, Eliza was making a run with her baby from the continent to London, and Daniel Waterhouse had Joined the Royal Court and taken a Mistress. This book picks up several years later. Eliza is captured and brought back to France, Daniel's Mistress died of small pox, and Jack has been cured of the Syph by some sort of extraordinarily high fever, although it has This is the second volume in Stephenson 's Baroque cycle. At the end of the last book, Half Cocked Jack was a Galley Slave off the Barbary Coast, Eliza was making a run with her baby from the continent to London, and Daniel Waterhouse had Joined the Royal Court and taken a Mistress. This book picks up several years later. Eliza is captured and brought back to France, Daniel's Mistress died of small pox, and Jack has been cured of the Syph by some sort of extraordinarily high fever, although it has left him with some sort of amnesia. Jack joins a cabal of galley slaves with a plot to make themselves free. This plan inadvertently becomes embroiled with Eliza living back in France in the Royal Court. Her life is in turn interacting from afar with Daniel Waterhouse, who is involved with the Marquis of Ravenscar who is leading the newly formed Whig party in British Parliment. This book follows Jack (literally) around the world, as he tries to get free from slavery and poverty, getting into all sorts of swashbuckling madcap adventures along the way. Daniel is just trying to get by and move to Massachusetts with the other puritans. Eliza is just trying to get revenge on the slave trade and failing that keep her family together. This story is told as two novels, interspersed and shuffled together. The shuffling is well done, and you generally do not jump around in time too much. For all you OS nerds (like myself) out there, it is reminiscent of how two processes time share the physical processor together. Message passing and everything, as the various story arcs affect each other in surprising and interesting ways. Historically, this book cover's the late 17th century war Between England and France, the reign of William and Mary in England, the Reign of Louis XIV in France, the Japanese Isolationism, the expansion of South and East Asian sea trade with Europe, Mexican Colonialism, and the Spanish Inquisition. As ever, Neal Stephenson 's writing style is entertaining and interesting. This book reads faster than the previous volume Quicksilver . Also, Neal Stephenson obviously traveled to many of the places he wrote about in this book. Many of the places in this book that I have actually visited (like Acapulco) are very accurately described. I read this book because I am reading the Baroque cycle. All sorts of smart dudes in the know recommend that book series to me. ...more I sometimes think Neal Stephenson novels are fit only for college professors, especially business professors, with a need for astronomic levels of excitement, but since this category includes *me* I love this series. The form of the novels reminds me of a baroque and convoluted Candide - a picaresque in which philosophical speculation trades places back and forth with big-time all-star adventure - burning ships, mistaken identities, kidnappings, mounds and piles of gold, murderous Jesuits, etc. I sometimes think Neal Stephenson novels are fit only for college professors, especially business professors, with a need for astronomic levels of excitement, but since this category includes *me* I love this series. The form of the novels reminds me of a baroque and convoluted Candide - a picaresque in which philosophical speculation trades places back and forth with big-time all-star adventure - burning ships, mistaken identities, kidnappings, mounds and piles of gold, murderous Jesuits, etc. The science makes the adventure more fun (a detailed chapter about how phosphorus is made becomes a chapter about how our heros win a battle with bottles of phosphorus). Outside of people like me, some people might like the adventure bits, and others the philosophy bits - but not both. If you fall in this camp it's still worth a go, because Stephenson is an utter genius at invention. The end is thrilling! Sad! Unexpected! Makes me crave volume 3 (\"The System of the World\")! ...more The Confusion is Captain Jack to Quicksilver's Old Jack . This is adventure, much more in the mould of Wilbur Smith - heaps of fun (as my Aussie relatives say!). It's still got that twisty-turny rambling-Stephenson plot, that's as much of a world-tour as it is a narrative arc, but where I thought Quicksilver was utterly fascinating, I thought The Confusion was truly enjoyable - both get 5-stars, but surprisingly different books! I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't The Confusion is Captain Jack to Quicksilver's Old Jack . This is adventure, much more in the mould of Wilbur Smith - heaps of fun (as my Aussie relatives say!). It's still got that twisty-turny rambling-Stephenson plot, that's as much of a world-tour as it is a narrative arc, but where I thought Quicksilver was utterly fascinating, I thought The Confusion was truly enjoyable - both get 5-stars, but surprisingly different books! I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't have time to write proper reviews for, so I'm going to bash out as many of these mini-reviews as I can before Christmas :-) After this I read: Rivers of London ...more Oh my god if I read any more tedious exposition I'm going to find you and throw this book at you. And it's big, it'll hurt. It'd be a lot smaller if you just told the story. Oh, and now you skip the part of the story with the action just so you can tell me what happened in more tedious exposition? Fuck You Neal Stephenson, I used to like you! El m\u00e1s flojo de los que he le\u00eddo de Stephenson hasta ahora. Pasan tantas cosas que marea. Es como si la trama fuese tan abigarrada que hay que abrirse paso a machetazos. Hay varias historias simult\u00e1neas que se entrecruzan pero llega un momento que me cans\u00f3. No le falta genialidad porque est\u00e1 muy bien pensado, pero se me hizo denso. En algunas partes me atrapaba y me le\u00eda 100 p\u00e1ginas de un tir\u00f3n. En otras (la mayor\u00eda) me dorm\u00eda a las 10 o 15 carillas. Por eso el avance se me hizo muuuy lento. Las m El m\u00e1s flojo de los que he le\u00eddo de Stephenson hasta ahora. Pasan tantas cosas que marea. Es como si la trama fuese tan abigarrada que hay que abrirse paso a machetazos. Hay varias historias simult\u00e1neas que se entrecruzan pero llega un momento que me cans\u00f3. No le falta genialidad porque est\u00e1 muy bien pensado, pero se me hizo denso. En algunas partes me atrapaba y me le\u00eda 100 p\u00e1ginas de un tir\u00f3n. En otras (la mayor\u00eda) me dorm\u00eda a las 10 o 15 carillas. Por eso el avance se me hizo muuuy lento. Las mejores partes me parecieron las divagaciones sobre filosof\u00eda natural y monadolog\u00eda por parte de Leibniz y Fatio. Reconozco que el inter\u00e9s en la historia de la ciencia, y de este per\u00edodo en particular no son para todo el mundo, pero a m\u00ed me interesan especialmente; quiz\u00e1 por eso disfrut\u00e9 m\u00e1s el primer libro. Es una pena porque el anterior libro de la trilog\u00eda me encant\u00f3 y por supuesto que quiero saber c\u00f3mo termina. Espero que repunte! Adem\u00e1s tengo otro bodoque de Stephenson en la mesa de luz para leer a continuaci\u00f3n... ...more I remember like it was yesterday when I first read Neal Stephenson. I learned about him from a lit blog in 2004 when I had started reading blogs but had not yet started my own. I read Snow Crash (1992) and was blown away. He opened up a whole new world of reading for me called \"cyber punk\" and led me to William Gibson and on from there. I have read Stephenson's books in the order he wrote them: The Diamond Age, Cryptonomicon, Quicksilver. The only glitch is that his books are so long and take me I remember like it was yesterday when I first read Neal Stephenson. I learned about him from a lit blog in 2004 when I had started reading blogs but had not yet started my own. I read Snow Crash (1992) and was blown away. He opened up a whole new world of reading for me called \"cyber punk\" and led me to William Gibson and on from there. I have read Stephenson's books in the order he wrote them: The Diamond Age, Cryptonomicon, Quicksilver. The only glitch is that his books are so long and take me over a week to read. I never seem to catch up. Every time a new Stephenson comes out (Reamde came out last September) I read another one, but I am still behind by three. Cryptonomicon (1999) was his first venture into the past, with part of the action taking place in the present, being the 1990s at that point, and the remainder during World War II. The infamous Bobby Shaftoe makes his first appearance. Then in 2003 came Quicksilver (the first volume of a trilogy, The Baroque Cycle.) These books are set in the 1600s. We meet the original Bobby Shaftoe, aka King of the Vagabonds, aka Half-cocked Jack, due to an unfortunate incident involving his cock. We also meet the indomitable Eliza, Isaac Newton, Leibniz, Louis XIV, and a lesser known member of the Royal Society, Daniel Waterhouse, whose descendant is a major player in Crytonomicon. I got to meet Neal Stephenson once, the year that Books Expo America was held in Los Angeles. I blurted out garbled gushing phrases about what a big fan I was and got an autographed copy of Anathem. I will read that one of these days. He is a tiny, slim guy with no hair on his head but a dark beard on his face. He exudes a calm intelligence and is possessed of a shy nature. Hard to believe that he can hold all that he knows in his head--proof to me that the mind is not the brain. So The Confusion is volume two of The Baroque Cycle. In 815 pages the story moves along a mere four years. Eliza has her tale of woes and triumphs centered in the court of Louis XIV; alternating chapters follow Bobby Shaftoe and his pirate adventures from Spain to Mexico to the Middle East to India and back to England. Though the volume is packed with action, adventure, sorrow, and history, it seemed just a tad slow compared to Stephenson's earlier books. However, it has been four years since I read Quicksilver. I do remember in each earlier book times when I felt held back by his torrents of words. I think he is laying a strong and sturdy foundation that will support the conclusions he comes to in the final volume, The System of the World. While these books are hyper-active historical fiction, they are also a look at the foundations of the political, monetary, and scientific issues we now live and grapple with in our daily lives. Never have I had so much fun learning history. ...more Zam\u0119t to kolejny przejaw geniuszu Stephensona. Po raz kolejny czytaj\u0105c powie\u015b\u0107 tego autora delektowa\u0142em si\u0119 ka\u017cd\u0105 kolejna stron\u0105, a ostatni\u0105 przywita\u0142em ze smutkiem, \u017ce to ju\u017c koniec tego niesamowitego dzie\u0142a. Tym razem autor skupia si\u0119 na dw\u00f3ch postaciach - Jacku Shaftoe i Elizie. W przypadku Jacka mamy do czynienia z powie\u015bci\u0105 przygodow\u0105, pe\u0142n\u0105 rozmachu, podr\u00f3\u017cy, niesamowitych wydarze\u0144, oraz planu, kt\u00f3ry zawstydzi\u0142by ekpi\u0119 Dannego Oceana. W przypadku Elizy wi\u0119cej jest dworskich intryg, polityki Zam\u0119t to kolejny przejaw geniuszu Stephensona. Po raz kolejny czytaj\u0105c powie\u015b\u0107 tego autora delektowa\u0142em si\u0119 ka\u017cd\u0105 kolejna stron\u0105, a ostatni\u0105 przywita\u0142em ze smutkiem, \u017ce to ju\u017c koniec tego niesamowitego dzie\u0142a. Tym razem autor skupia si\u0119 na dw\u00f3ch postaciach - Jacku Shaftoe i Elizie. W przypadku Jacka mamy do czynienia z powie\u015bci\u0105 przygodow\u0105, pe\u0142n\u0105 rozmachu, podr\u00f3\u017cy, niesamowitych wydarze\u0144, oraz planu, kt\u00f3ry zawstydzi\u0142by ekpi\u0119 Dannego Oceana. W przypadku Elizy wi\u0119cej jest dworskich intryg, polityki oraz zag\u0142\u0119biania si\u0119 w realia \u00f3wczesnego handlu i gospodarki. W powie\u015bci spotkamy te\u017c pozosta\u0142e postacie z pierwszego tomu, m.in Boba Shaftoe, kt\u00f3ry kontynuuje karier\u0119 wojskow\u0105 (szczeg\u00f3lnie ciekawie to wygl\u0105da w czasach gdy \u017cadna wojna si\u0119 nie toczy), Leibniza, Enocha Root'a, wpadniemy te\u017c na chwil\u0119 do Londynu do Daniela Waterhouse'a \u017ceby zobaczy\u0107 narodziny papierowego pieni\u0105dza. Stephenson pisze w swoim stylu. Z jednej strony mamy podnios\u0142e wydarzenia w \u017cyciu bohater\u00f3w, pe\u0142ne dramatyzmu i zwrot\u00f3w akcji, w tle toczy si\u0119 historia znana z szkolnych podr\u0119cznik\u00f3w (w o wiele ciekawszym wydaniu), autor lubuje si\u0119 te\u017c w wyk\u0142adaniu r\u00f3\u017cnego rodzaju teorii (np. niesamowita scena z francuskiego salonu opisuj\u0105ca ide\u0119 transakcji bezgot\u00f3wkowych), a wszystko opisane jest przyst\u0119pnym, lekko ironicznym stylem, kt\u00f3ry powoduje, \u017ce u\u015bmiech nie schodzi z twarzy czytelnika (dialogi). Jedyny minus zwi\u0105zany jest z roz\u0142o\u017ceniem powie\u015bci w czasie. Przez 3/4 ksi\u0105\u017cki w fabule nie ma wi\u0119kszych przeskok\u00f3w w czasie co tylko wychodzi jej na dobre (w por\u00f3wnaniu z pierwsz\u0105 cz\u0119\u015bci\u0105), p\u00f3\u017aniej niestety autor przyspiesza, zaczynaj\u0105 si\u0119 przeskoki, co powoduje, \u017ce wydarzenia, o kt\u00f3rych mo\u017cna by napisa\u0107 kolejn\u0105 powie\u015b\u0107, zawarte s\u0105 na kilku marnych stronach (c\u00f3\u017c za marnotrawstwo). ...more A necessary result of the con-fusion of Bonanza and The Juncto (the two component novels that comprise this volume) is that the narrative meanders back and forth between the dealings of erudite Eliza (in Europe) and daring Jack Shaftoe (pretty much everywhere else). Both stories are equally compelling but in totally different ways: the swashbuckling adventures of a maritime cabal of pirates and slaves couldn't be more different from the sensitive and precise financial, political and scientific i A necessary result of the con-fusion of Bonanza and The Juncto (the two component novels that comprise this volume) is that the narrative meanders back and forth between the dealings of erudite Eliza (in Europe) and daring Jack Shaftoe (pretty much everywhere else). Both stories are equally compelling but in totally different ways: the swashbuckling adventures of a maritime cabal of pirates and slaves couldn't be more different from the sensitive and precise financial, political and scientific intrigues of the contingent of Natural Philosophers. Unforgettable characters are forged, given rich stories, and sometimes discarded so many times that the reader can't help but get confused themselves at times, but it all contributes to the breadth and span of this Baroque epic. Impossibly the two stories begin to converge - around Phosphorous, of all things - setting the stage for the much anticipated final act! ...more No diversion goes too far afield, no tangent is too barock or philosophickal, and no intrigue is too ornately improbable for me in this yarn. If it were written on a roll of Turing machine tape, extending infinitely into the horizon, I have no doubt I would continue reading as long as I breathe. Alas but there is only one tome remaining in the trilogy for me. Why not blog this one too? ***** In a discussion of being political/diplomatic: \"It is precisely because it is true, that you must not come out and state it.\" \"Very well then, monsieur, I vow not to say anything true for the remainder of this conversation\" (p. 69). Simple little joke, but it cracked me up. The coversation goes on for some time afterwords, and I haven't yet decided if the second character broke the vow... ***** Ok, so apparently I didn't end up blogging this one live as I read it. Apolo Why not blog this one too? ***** In a discussion of being political/diplomatic: \"It is precisely because it is true, that you must not come out and state it.\" \"Very well then, monsieur, I vow not to say anything true for the remainder of this conversation\" (p. 69). Simple little joke, but it cracked me up. The coversation goes on for some time afterwords, and I haven't yet decided if the second character broke the vow... ***** Ok, so apparently I didn't end up blogging this one live as I read it. Apologies. I did mark a bunch of stuff that I wanted to share with you all though, that I thoroughly enjoyed: *** Here's a slightly predictable but still enjoyable little exchange: \"You shall amass some sort of capital, and lend out money... I can only perceive two drawbacks to what is otherwise an excellent plan, my lord...\" \"Don't say it. We have no capital... and no money.\" \"Just so, my lord.\" (p.486) *** The Elector Johann Georg IV belonged to a sort of fraternity whose members were to be found in every country in the world, and among every class of society: Men Who Had Been Hit on the Head as Boys. As MWHBHHB went, Johan Georg was a beauty (p. 527). Tell me that isn't genius. *** ______'s chief source of discomfort, the, was a feeling well known to soldiers of low rank, to doctors' patients, and to people getting their hair cut; namely, that he was utterly in the power of an incompetent (p. 801-2). This last one comes as the character in question (name blanked to prevent spoilerization) finds himself a prisoner, and theoretical torture victim of a character who is not very good at the whole torture thing. *** I am still absolutely loving the Baroque Cycle. I want to note again, in case you didn't see it in my Quicksilver review, that this is not a \"series\" of books. It's one long book broken into three. Neither of the first two end in anything remotely resembling a satisfying resolution, and this one essentially drops you right back in there. Many sequels give you lots of sort of recapping, but this one really doesn't do much of that, and couldn't stand alone. Start with Quicksilver. This book continues following the three main characters of Daniel (who admittedly takes a backseat), Eliza, and Jack. These latter two, certainly the focal points of The Confusion, are difficult to follow, as their adventurers take them all over the place. Again, as in Quicksilver, this book contains much delightful encountering of historically significant people and events. A short list would include The Spanish Inquisition, King Louis XIV, The Shogun in Japan, Barbary Corsairs, Jacobite Rebellions, Leibniz and Newton, and the founding of the Bank of England. Of course, this isn't merely a history book, and includes much in the ways of fanciful and entertaining fiction. More so than Quicksilver, The Confusion has a rather epic adventure vibe to it. It also features some of the most satisfying death scenes I've encountered in a long time. Actually, I could have left the word \"death\" out of the preceding sentence, and it would have been just as applicable to a host of other scenes as well. Stephenson does an excellent job of setting up smaller narratives within the bigger picture, and the mini climaxes and denouements that accompany these are beyond satisfying. I can't wait to see how this wraps up in System of the World. ...more Just like the first volume, this one was immensely enjoyable, but suffered from similar faults. It's a true marvel to read the whole thing though - especially the way it adumbrates the trade and politics of the time are superb, and really does send us back. It's historical fiction with a heavy stress on the 'fiction', or perhaps better, historical fantasy. In my humble opinion Stephenson often takes too many liberties with the historical personas and inserts too many fictitious characters - but Just like the first volume, this one was immensely enjoyable, but suffered from similar faults. It's a true marvel to read the whole thing though - especially the way it adumbrates the trade and politics of the time are superb, and really does send us back. It's historical fiction with a heavy stress on the 'fiction', or perhaps better, historical fantasy. In my humble opinion Stephenson often takes too many liberties with the historical personas and inserts too many fictitious characters - but perhaps the latter is more forgivable than making real historical characters do things that they did not. But of course he does that too, and he is a bit too familiar with some of them (like Leibniz and Newton, where the latter is delineated as quite the camp character). Some characters which I happen to admire, he makes into villains. But at the same time, Stephenson really does bring history to life, and pushes history with all its complexities into our faces. That is the quality which Stephenson's works should be admired most for - his ability to make us see how complex and subtle society actually was in bygone days. We often sneer at things which appear trivial, barbaric, or simplistic to us today - and we are indeed usually mistaken when doing so. Stephenson shows us the how and the why. ...more There are four appeals [of the novel] to which I am especially responsive. The appeal of play . . . . novels conceived as grand games. The appeal of dream . . . . the fusion of dream and reality. The appeal of thought . . . . to marshal around the story all the means \u2015 rational and irrational, narrative and contemplative \u2015 that could illuminate man\u2019s being. The appeal of time . . . . to broaden the time issue beyond the Proustian problem of personal memory to the enigma of collective time. \u2015 Milan Kunder There are four appeals [of the novel] to which I am especially responsive. The appeal of play . . . . novels conceived as grand games. The appeal of dream . . . . the fusion of dream and reality. The appeal of thought . . . . to marshal around the story all the means \u2015 rational and irrational, narrative and contemplative \u2015 that could illuminate man\u2019s being. The appeal of time . . . . to broaden the time issue beyond the Proustian problem of personal memory to the enigma of collective time. \u2015 Milan Kundera, The Art of the Novel I am occasionally tempted upon turning the final page of such of Stephenson\u2019s novels as Cryptonomicon , Quicksilver , Anathem , or this one currently under discussion to compare them with the headier works of Thomas Pynchon such as Gravity\u2019s Rainbow and Mason & Dixon . Now, however, I am prepared to seem odd to all those who will question my feeble attempt to show that perhaps Stephenson has become more akin to the Hermann Hesse of Das Glasperlenspiel ( The Glass Bead Game , or, as it has sometimes been styled, Magister Ludi , Latin for Master of the Game). This is not the figure from Sir Walter Scott\u2019s Kenilworth described thus, \u201cThe schoolmaster is termed, classically, Ludi Magister , because he deprives boys of their play.\u201d In these sprawling novels, Stephenson seems to conflate the two identities ascribed to him on Wikipedia, author and game designer, and to give the reader at least some of each, novel and game. More than that, I find that he stretches toward that telling phrase from The Glass Bead Game , \u201cWe should be mindful of everything, for we can interpret everything.\u201d In laying before his readers lengthy observations upon, as well as alternative reworkings of, history, Stephenson also brings to my mind another of the Magister Ludi\u2019s dictums: \u201cPeople know, or simply feel, that if thinking is not kept pure and keen, and if respect for the mind is no longer operative, ships and automobiles will soon cease to run right, the engineer\u2019s slide rule and the computations of banks and stock exchanges will forfeit validity and authority, and chaos will ensue.\u201d I think it is not an entirely untoward observation that Kundera might find The Confusion appealing. ...more I was hoping to be able to dispense with The Baroque Cycle in one go\u2014to be honest I can't remember greatly liking one book in the trilogy over another, and I really want to put some distance between myself and those 2700+ pages. It's not that the story's not entertaining\u2014it is. It's amusingly written, too, with an omniscient narrator who breaks the authorial third wall with snarky commentary on fashion choices in the 1600s. And as always, you'll learn a great deal with Stephenson. The birth of m I was hoping to be able to dispense with The Baroque Cycle in one go\u2014to be honest I can't remember greatly liking one book in the trilogy over another, and I really want to put some distance between myself and those 2700+ pages. It's not that the story's not entertaining\u2014it is. It's amusingly written, too, with an omniscient narrator who breaks the authorial third wall with snarky commentary on fashion choices in the 1600s. And as always, you'll learn a great deal with Stephenson. The birth of modern science, banking and monetary systems are a few of the cloisters within which his characters wander in this sprawling trilogy. But sprawl it does. Stephenson has said many times, in response to reader suggestions about using an editor, that he doesn't need one. He's wrong. He needs someone to cut words, paragraphs, pages, whole books\u2014and at times to spank him, too. The books go on far, far too long in too many places, scurrying down narrative and didactic rabbit holes with nothing to show or it. One doesn't have the sense that Stephenson, fun as he can be to read\u2014the entertainment and sheer breadth of the thing meriting three stars\u2014is enough the master of his craft to have undertaken this cycle. Neither its plot nor its structure, nor its many adjoining themes, really amount to anything conclusive in the end. ...more *2nd Reading* I took a star off from my previous reading, because while I still enjoyed it, it seemed like the novel had a lot of dead space. I really enjoyed Stephenson's description of the world outside northern Europe at the turn of the 18th century, and the main characters are all compelling, but it is REALLY long, and a lot of the minor incidents seemed unnecessarily drawn out. And it has that same weirdly disjointed narrative that is obviously intentional but doesn't seem to serve a purpose *2nd Reading* I took a star off from my previous reading, because while I still enjoyed it, it seemed like the novel had a lot of dead space. I really enjoyed Stephenson's description of the world outside northern Europe at the turn of the 18th century, and the main characters are all compelling, but it is REALLY long, and a lot of the minor incidents seemed unnecessarily drawn out. And it has that same weirdly disjointed narrative that is obviously intentional but doesn't seem to serve a purpose that plagues the rest of the Baroque Cycle. That said, it was still great and I mostly recommend it, as described in my previous review. *1st Reading* The Confusion is a perfect storm of everything that's awesome about the baroque cycle and Stephenson's writing, and is completely delightful. The greater scope of having two novels (one a swashbuckling epic that moves around the world, the other a political intrigue story that Stephenson refers to as a \"bodice ripper\") mushed together makes Stephenson's disjointed narrative seem more like a sweeping mosaic. Additionally, these two wrap up almost all of the hanging threads from the previous three novels, but still in the last couple of chapters sets up a conflict for the last three books. ...more Slaves turned Pirates turned Bucaneers, Courtesans turned Duchess' turned World Monetary Manipulators, and Natural Philosophers turned Mathematicians turned Alchemists?! It's Baroque Cycle 2! Leaping thirty years into the past from Baroque Cycle 1 we find a whole new slew of characters involved with western world changes that set in motion the events of the first novel. And like most Stephenson novels, he has done his research. Filled with all sorts of over my head math and flip flop politics of t Slaves turned Pirates turned Bucaneers, Courtesans turned Duchess' turned World Monetary Manipulators, and Natural Philosophers turned Mathematicians turned Alchemists?! It's Baroque Cycle 2! Leaping thirty years into the past from Baroque Cycle 1 we find a whole new slew of characters involved with western world changes that set in motion the events of the first novel. And like most Stephenson novels, he has done his research. Filled with all sorts of over my head math and flip flop politics of the late 17th Century, Neil Stephenson knows how to balance a novel with actual History while supplying a welcome plot of fantastic fiction. And like all his books, you catch yourself wishing it was all real. Maybe it is. How much of it is? I don't know. I want to know. Which got me thinking this, introducing children to Historical Fiction in school could lead to an actual interest in History? I know I now want to know about the Whigs and the Torries of the 1690's, the war between France and England and Holland, Piracy as a military tactic, The great atomic free will rift between Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz and most importantly; what happened in this time period to change the worlds currency from hard (Silver/Gold) to soft (numbers in a bank)?!!! ...more Holy crap I would give this more than 5 stars if I could. Better than Quicksilver, this book just takes off from page one, describing Jack Shaftoe as being detonated into waking up, and ending with Shaftoe looking at Isaac Newton and planning something destructive. It jumps back and forth between the best action scenes ever in literature and intricate plotting, intrigue, back-stabbing, black mail, code-breaking, etc., in Europe. With topics raning from crazy ass Indian religions to Leibniz's mon Holy crap I would give this more than 5 stars if I could. Better than Quicksilver, this book just takes off from page one, describing Jack Shaftoe as being detonated into waking up, and ending with Shaftoe looking at Isaac Newton and planning something destructive. It jumps back and forth between the best action scenes ever in literature and intricate plotting, intrigue, back-stabbing, black mail, code-breaking, etc., in Europe. With topics raning from crazy ass Indian religions to Leibniz's monads to the birth of world-finance, with a huge cast of characters, some good and and some bad but all ridiculously entertaining, this book of over 800 pages was only put aside for bowel movements, eating, and sleeping, and even that with the utmost reluctance. I've got a huge boner now that can't be dealt with until I track down the last book of the trilogy in this god-forsaken literary desert I live in. ...more I picked up and put down Quicksilver over the course of a few years... Books of that physical size tend to intimidate me, so I was in no hurry to start The Confusion.. But once I got an ebook reader the physical size was no longer a factor. While I ostensibly started this book a few years ago, I really started it mid Jan 2013. Once I got into it I couldn't stop, finishing it two weeks later (though with a massive assist from a beach vacation). It took me way too long, as so much time had passed I picked up and put down Quicksilver over the course of a few years... Books of that physical size tend to intimidate me, so I was in no hurry to start The Confusion.. But once I got an ebook reader the physical size was no longer a factor. While I ostensibly started this book a few years ago, I really started it mid Jan 2013. Once I got into it I couldn't stop, finishing it two weeks later (though with a massive assist from a beach vacation). It took me way too long, as so much time had passed since I had read it, to recall the events of Quicksilver, even with a Wikipedia assist. Other than that I found the book to be interesting and engaging, and I honestly cared about the characters. On one hand it could be (easily) argued that this book could use some editing, the length really did allow for some serious pondering on the characters and their story.. That said, this book s certainly not for everyone.. ...more I actually wasn't going to pick up this book after finishing quicksilver , but I enjoyed the ending of quicksilver, so I thought I would give this one a try. The Confusion was OK. It was a slow read, that wasn't always the best escape for me from my world of studying. The end of The Confusion was well worth the read, but I can't say that I really enjoyed every step of the way. It's more... if I hadn't read the middle of the book, there would be no way to enjoy the ending. Now, I am not ready to I actually wasn't going to pick up this book after finishing quicksilver , but I enjoyed the ending of quicksilver, so I thought I would give this one a try. The Confusion was OK. It was a slow read, that wasn't always the best escape for me from my world of studying. The end of The Confusion was well worth the read, but I can't say that I really enjoyed every step of the way. It's more... if I hadn't read the middle of the book, there would be no way to enjoy the ending. Now, I am not ready to take on the third part of the trilogy at this time; but since I own The System of the World , I am inclined to believe that I'll be reading it soon. If nothing else, I learned that life is long and that many many things happen everyday. The surprising part is that even the smallest things can come back to make a huge difference in the end. ...more This book actually didn't take as long to read as the first book (Quicksilver). Perhaps it was because I already knew the characters well and didn't have to \"ramp up\" each time the book switched focus to a different set of characters. Really, though, I think it's because The Confusion is more of a swashbuckling adventure story, which large parts of Quicksilver were not (even though I really enjoyed the long first part of Quicksilver, involving Puritanism and science, it was a slow read). The Con This book actually didn't take as long to read as the first book (Quicksilver). Perhaps it was because I already knew the characters well and didn't have to \"ramp up\" each time the book switched focus to a different set of characters. Really, though, I think it's because The Confusion is more of a swashbuckling adventure story, which large parts of Quicksilver were not (even though I really enjoyed the long first part of Quicksilver, involving Puritanism and science, it was a slow read). The Confusion is a page-turner, definitely over-the-top at times, but a fun read and just as packed with historical references as the first book. Unlike the first book, adequate closure to the main adventures is received at the end. I'm looking forward to starting the third book, but for practical reasons I must choose something smaller to bring on my upcoming travels... ...more", "Title": "The Confusion"},
