{"Comments": "<+++>Poseidon\u2019s Children</+++> represents a bit of a change of pace for <---A>Michael</---A>, being the first volume of his urban fantasy series, The Legacy of the Gods. Lest you think he's moved entirely away from the realm of horror, however, just check out that cover with its homage to the likes of Evil Dead and Jaws. This is urban fantasy in terms of scope (it's bigger than anything he's done before, with a ton more characters) and plot (it's a lot more layered and intricate than his previous work), but individual <+++>Poseidon\u2019s Children</+++> represents a bit of a change of pace for Michael, being the first volume of his urban fantasy series, The Legacy of the Gods. Lest you think he's moved entirely away from the realm of horror, however, just check out that cover with its homage to the likes of Evil Dead and Jaws. This is urban fantasy in terms of scope (it's bigger than anything he's done before, with a ton more characters) and plot (it's a lot more layered and intricate than his previous work), but individual scenes are still drenched in the kind of horror we've come to expect . . especially in the opening scene: Susan Rogers had been right to fear the water. There were monsters lurking just below its churning surface. Now, they pulled her down into the dark depths; things with black and orange stripes,<---M> things with claws</---M>, with fangs like sharpened steak knives, and, unfortunately for her, they were not inclined to swallow her whole. That last paragraph, right there, sums up so much of the book - yes, there's the horror and the gore, but also the sense of something far more sinister, intelligent, and calculating behind it. This is a story about lost civilizations, mythological pantheons, and honest-to-gosh sea monsters, with enough contemporary elements (scientists, billionaires, artists, authorities, and hit men) to effectively anchor things and keep it at least plausible. It takes a while before we understand how all the characters fit into the story, and some of them only creep into the story to be dragged off in a frenzy of blood a few pages later, but it all works. The multiple viewpoints give it a cinematic feel, and the way in which Michael builds the characters ensures we're never at a loss as to who is dominating the scene. Even with all the additional demands of setting up a multi-volume urban fantasy series, Michael still keeps the pacing tight and the storytelling sharp. There are moments of comedy and romance to help temporarily alleviate the tension, and enough awe-inspiring moments of mythological monstrosity to keep even the most jaded reader engaged. I hadn't expected to enjoy this one as much as I did, but I am definitely looking forward to the next chapter, especially after that cliffhanger ending, which introduces another layer of horror to the fantasy. Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins ...more Poseidon's Children is the first book in the The Legacy of the Gods series by Michael West. How would you classify the 1998 movie The Faculty? I would classify it as horror, yet I've seen it on urban fantasy lists. I find the same blurring of lines with Michael West's Poseidon's Children. It is classified as an urban fantasy novel, but it is very much a horror story. Poseidon's Children starts out a lot like Jaws except the sharks in Poseidon's Children have hands. These sea monsters are descenden Poseidon's Children is the first book in the The Legacy of the Gods series by Michael West. How would you classify the 1998 movie The Faculty? I would classify it as horror, yet I've seen it on urban fantasy lists. I find the same blurring of lines with Michael West's Poseidon's Children. It is classified as an urban fantasy novel, but it is very much a horror story. Poseidon's Children starts out a lot like Jaws except the sharks in Poseidon's Children have hands. These sea monsters are descendents of Poseidon, and they have taken up residence in Colonial Bay. \"What kind of mythological creature would you like to be?\" is a common question among paranormal book discussion forums and the book blog hops. I've never had an answer to that question until now. I want to be one of Poseidon's children. It would be awesome to be able to transform between a sea creature and a human. If I had a set of gills, my life would be complete.<---F> Moving on</---F>. There are a lot of characters in Poseidon's Children. It seemed like every chapter in the first half introduced someone new. I worried about being able to keep them all straight, but even with West switching between first and last names, I was able to keep track of such a large cast. I'm looking forward to further development of some of the characters in the next book. Poseidon's Children is a great start to the The Legacy of the Gods series. The ending provides a lot of setup for the next installment, but we are given a complete story prior to the sizable epilogue. I greatly appreciate when a series book can be read as a stand alone. If you enjoyed the 1998 movie The Faculty (I did), you should check out this series. I've been trying to ease into the urban fantasy genre and being that Poseidon's Children was dark and scary for an urban fantasy, it was a great selection for me. I'm looking forward to seeing where the series goes in the next book. I hope to vicariously spend some time out at sea as a sea monster. ...more The first novel in my Legacy of the Gods series. This epic, four book saga has been a project that I have been toying with off and on since 1989, and I am so happy that Seventh Star Press is giving me the opportunity to be able to finally share it with all of you. I remember when I read my first Hemingway. Sitting in my grandfathers study snuggled under my great grandmother's knitted blanket with a small 60 watt bulb illuminating the treasured book from his shelves. His study smelled like leather and typewriter ribbon, I will never forget that. When I smell these things or snuggle under that blanket, which I still have, I go back to that time in that chair with that Old Man. Memories are heavily tied to scent, taste, feeling... and for me words. I was so I remember when I read my first Hemingway. Sitting in my grandfathers study snuggled under my great grandmother's knitted blanket with a small 60 watt bulb illuminating the treasured book from his shelves. His study smelled like leather and typewriter ribbon, I will never forget that. When I smell these things or snuggle under that blanket, which I still have, I go back to that time in that chair with that Old Man. Memories are heavily tied to scent, taste, feeling... and for me words. I was so emotionally invested in the Fisherman and I stayed up all night till the tale was done. You know what books I am talking about, the ones you read which stay with you, like my Hemingway moment. That have grabbed you in some way with some `hook', dragging you along for the ride. The ones that a month, a year or even five later you see something, or read something which brings you back to that moment in the book, where you are, what you are doing, what you are eating... Some of you have a handful, some of you, like me, have different handfuls that I cycle through because books are part of a central core of my being. Poseidon\u2019s Children and the rest of the Legacy of Gods series may possibly come to be one of those books. Let's talk about why, this definitely will not be a normal review, perhaps more of a discussion on passion and why I feel passionate and so excited about talking about Michael West 's latest experience in words. Earlier this week I asked Michael West why Urban Fantasy? I tend to not read reviews or synopsis' because every time I do I get thrown completely off and at times I go off on a tangent because these labels that are forced upon authors in order to sell the book at times screws the pooch. Now Urban Fantasy does not screw the pooch with this, however I cannot put Poseidon's Children specifically in this category nor can I label it as Cthulhuian mythos, or Horror, or thriller, or fantasy, or science fiction, or... this is a book that I had a very hard time nailing down. If I had to I would say Urban Carnivale! but they do not have that subgenre... yet. Michael may just be the first First off to understand where I am coming from you need to understand the term or phenomena of Carnivale, at least in how I am using it. In its root 'carnevale' is derived from the two words meaning, `carne', `meat' (food) or `flesh' (sex). It has been much discussed in the sociological circles as an actual phenomena dating back in many different cultures thousands of years. During these times the world, society is tumultuous with most social hierarchies being inverted with satire and a farce, even mockery. Reversals of relations between man and beast, men and women, fathers and sons.. and in this book definitely mothers and daughters. If you have read this, you know exactly where I am headed. If you have not read it, think about the fantastical aspects of a Carnivale! The cotton candy, the chaos, the thrills, chills and the Freak Show! Michael presents you one with this amazing read. I literally did a fist pump and giggled when I read the opening scene The series starts off set on a small New England island off the mainland of New Hampshire. One of those little tourist traps with quaint shops, quirky hotel clerks, clueless tourist and rich mainlanders that summer on the shores. One of these rich mainlanders is a man called Roger Hays and Roger had a son, one that as the book opened up was treading water in the surf coaxing his neurotic girlfriend, who is afraid of open water, out to have a little tryst int he sea. Just like our skinny dipper from Jaws soon finds out, this will be the last risqu\u00e9 thing these two lovers do... ever... \"...Susan Rogers had been right to fear the water. There were monsters lurking just below its churning surface. Now, they pulled her down into the dark depths; things with black and orange stripes, things with claws, with fangs like sharpened steak knives, and, unfortunately for her, they were not inclined to swallow her whole...\"( location 163) Here is where it gets tricky, I want to tell you all about it, I want to stand in front of my webcam and give you jazz hands and giggle as I recount a scene.. but I can't! Yesterday I started blathering on and on about the story to my fiance until he raised his hand up and said, \"Stop, wait... sea monsters, Atlantis, a town full of sea monsters, a lost god, a weapon... wait.. a mobster? WTH where is Bruce Campbell!\" I laughed so hard because I had been saying all along that all that was missing was a horde of zombies, Bruce Campbell and a chainsaw. Now before you roll your eyes and dismiss this, you have gotten this far in the review in so give it a bit more. Simply put, it was brilliantly woven. I giggled continually when I saw the correspondences. It is not just the story that is \"Urban Carnivale\", the writing style, the cleverly woven plot devices everything fits overlayed into this frantic masterpiece. Oh and the love scenes! *fanning myself* all of them, including the ones that were a bit harder to read, (involving one of the bad guys!) Since this is the start of the series his cast/character list is large. The protagonists consist of numbers which would fill at least a starting line up for a baseball team! Perhaps Colonial Bay Creatures?? umm no.. anyway. One thing people have discussed is because of this some of the characters did not get \"fluffed\" enough (could not resist). I started reading this knowing it was the first in a series. Many times when this is the case the first half of a book is nothing but setting up the world, \"fluffing\" out the depths of the characters so by the time you get to the meat of the piece you are almost finished! It didn't even occur to me while I was reading because I was swept along with the tentacles of each story arc. The characters that needed filling, were filled and those that were not will obviously be more developed later so this was not an issue for me. When you open this up, expect to smile, to cover your mouth in horror, to catch yourself needed to grab a breath, taking a couple of hot showers, checking before you dive into a pool from now on... and appreciating the fact that most beaches are PROBABLY safe.. probably .. Thrills, chills.. train wrecks you cannot stop watching (in a good way)... and remember they may not need to need to worry about being able to take a big deep breath before diving in, but you will! I cannot recommend this book more it will redefine the genre, or become the beginning of a new one. I think I will go tag it with `Urban Carnavale' now! I have been taunting everyone for weeks since the teaser about tentacles and Cthulhuian dreams and words of horror that will thrill you! With this incredible book, I have found another treasured memory placeholder. I will always have \"a moment\" when I read anything that tugs... pulls and twists at my memory. I will probably smile fondly each time I make my crab cakes! But I had not read the book yet. I have now, and Poseidon's Children will always have this `hook' in the flesh of my subconscious. CHECK Cabin Goddess for ALL four of my posts on POSEIDON'S CHILDREN Poseidon's Children (The Legacy of the Gods) ...more So i'll admit that i am an avid mythology buff so it's extremely hard to please me when it comes to mythology. I downloaded the sample just based off the title...and the amount of good reviews it recieved. I read about the first 4 pages and was hooked immediately. I bought it without even finishing the sample. Then as i got further i became increasingly annoyed because it seemed as soon as i got used to one character 6 more were introduced and they all had a voice. It drove me near insanity. I a So i'll admit that i am an avid mythology buff so it's extremely hard to please me when it comes to mythology. I downloaded the sample just based off the title...and the amount of good reviews it recieved. I read about the first 4 pages and was hooked immediately. I bought it without even finishing the sample. Then as i got further i became increasingly annoyed because it seemed as soon as i got used to one character 6 more were introduced and they all had a voice. It drove me near insanity. I almost gave up and refunded...but then i thought...ok...this authors writing style is extremely unique and i love it. There has to be a reason he has introduced me to all of these characters and given each of them a voice. I'll press on. So i read a little more. And i was hooked...absolutely hooked. You find yourself frustrated from all the different points of view but it all comes together at the end...it was well thought out. There was a point somewhere along the book where we are introduced to Horror Show the Hitman. And i'm thinking to myself...my lord...what is the significance? Do i really need to know the thoughts of the hitman, the town barber, the icecream man, and little debbie from down the street? Answer...Yes you do. It kind of reminded me of the less dramatic more mythological version of crash. All of these characters paths crossed and had it not of been for the numerous POV's...we might have been lost. Could you imagine the confusion if Carol just suddenly showed up on the island and said Hi! I found Atlantis and just thought this place was connected. You'd immediately start wondering what her real intentions are, but with her own voice in the book i knew exactly what kind of character she was and though i hated her at first...i mean despised...I really grew to love her character. Because i had every characters POV i felt myself connect to each and every one of them. i was sad when (view spoiler) [ our little firebug died...when our hitman went to jail. The only person i felt no sympathy for was Karl. (hide spoiler) ] I even felt the fathers pain. Yes he turned a bit insane...but hey love can make you do some crazy things. Hah and David thought his father didn't love him. If he only knew. The man went crackers after his death. I was extremely shocked at his fate. The ending did kind of leave me with hope that there may be more to the story like a book two? If so i'm all for it. I'm extremely glad i gave this book and it's characters a chance. Poseidon has always been my favorite among the greek gods...and atlantis has always been such a great myth! There's just so many routes a story about Atlantis could take. Work with me people! Michael West did an amazing job. I wasn't expecting quite a book. My faith in greek mythology based books...has been restored! ...more Very enjoyable \"monster movie\" book. That's just what it felt like. I've always loved monster movies and this book didn't disappoint. Sea creatures... shape shifting \"people\" ... an isolated coastal community... an ancient prophecy... Atlantis discovered. How can you go wrong? What else can I say? Just read it! It's been a while since I have read this type of monster story, but I love the movies. This one played like a movie in my mind. \u00a0I am giving Poseidon's Children 4 1/2 stars for the story and writing + 1/2 star for exceeding expectations. I look forward to the next book. Michael West has done a great job of creating unique twists to well-worn myths, giving us both\u00a0beautiful and terrifying new creatures in the process.\u00a0There is a large cast of characters (human and monster), but with each having th It's been a while since I have read this type of monster story, but I love the movies. This one played like a movie in my mind. \u00a0I am giving Poseidon's Children 4 1/2 stars for the story and writing + 1/2 star for exceeding expectations. I look forward to the next book. Michael West has done a great job of creating unique twists to well-worn myths, giving us both\u00a0beautiful and terrifying new creatures in the process.\u00a0There is a large cast of characters (human and monster), but with each having their own personality, you should not have a problem keeping track.\u00a0In fact, this adds to the real-world feel and makes you leap with happiness/sadness when the deaths start stacking up. I liked the pace. It doesn't reach out and grab you immediately. You start with a nonchalant event that gives a taste and sets the scene for what will be the heart of the story. You get confident in knowing where the story is going, but that just makes it more exciting when you start to see (a few chapters in) that this is NOT what you expected. There is some sex, but I am happy that it did not feel gratuitous or overly detailed. This book really touches on several genres--horror, sci-fi, fantasy, action, and mythology. If you read the basic description of Poseidon's Children and it seems even vaguely interesting to you, take the risk and give this one a try. I am confident that, at worst, you will be satisfied and at best, you will love it. Disclosure: I received a free copy of this novel from\u00a0Seventh Star Press. \u00a0I was not compensated in anyway except for receiving the book. The thoughts and opinions written here are entirely my own.\u00a0I was not required to write a review. ...more Great book! I really loved the Greek mythology aspects of the story, as well as the way Mr. West is able to turn things on its head and make it new again. The characters in this story were very vivid and I had no problem imagining they could be real. This novel hit the ground running and did not relent until the very end. I definitely can't wait for more to come, to see where the story goes next and to continue the wonderful journey of these cast of characters. Mr. West has really outdone himself Great book! I really loved the Greek mythology aspects of the story, as well as the way Mr. West is able to turn things on its head and make it new again. The characters in this story were very vivid and I had no problem imagining they could be real. This novel hit the ground running and did not relent until the very end. I definitely can't wait for more to come, to see where the story goes next and to continue the wonderful journey of these cast of characters. Mr. West has really outdone himself with this one!! If you have any inclination to read this, I would do myself a favor and give it a go. I don't believe you will be disappointed. ...more This was defiantly different, in one of the best ways possible, instead of the same old fish attack story, like jaws, this takes that in a totally new and amazing twist. The characters are rich and never bored you to death, they feel like actual people, and nothing really feels out of place or forced that would drag you out of the experience. You get sucked in so easily that this makes it an easy read. I can't wait to see what comes next in the series. I don't usually read this genre but found this book very difficult to put down. The characters are what drives any story in my opinion, and I found myself completely invested in the characters from the beginning. I was so anxious to make sure my favorites survived that it was all I could do to refrain from peeking ahead. The author did a great job of painting a vivid picture with his descriptions. I highly recommend this book to anyone not faint of heart. It's always a delightful surprise to see an established writer stretch to try something new. I remember when I read Elizabeth Moon's The Speed of Dark. As a longtime fan of her military space opera series books, the standalone hard science fiction character study floored me because it came out of nowhere, and took me to so many different places than I expected based on the \"brand name.\" While this transition isn't quite as radical, similarly, I'd read most of Michael West's material, minus maybe It's always a delightful surprise to see an established writer stretch to try something new. I remember when I read Elizabeth Moon's The Speed of Dark. As a longtime fan of her military space opera series books, the standalone hard science fiction character study floored me because it came out of nowhere, and took me to so many different places than I expected based on the \"brand name.\" While this transition isn't quite as radical, similarly, I'd read most of Michael West's material, minus maybe a handful of short stories not yet available in a collection, and I've loved it all. That said, with familiarity, comes expectations and an assumption that the writer is limited to providing that certain \"Michael West Experience.\" Likeable characters in the wrong place at the wrong time, where a mysterious evil proceeds to pick them off one by one until the smartest and luckiest figure out how to escape. It's a solid foundation, and has served Michael well. So I settled in with POSEIDON'S CHILDREN expecting more of that same--and there would have been nothing wrong with that. What I got was much more. The story, first of all, takes place on a small beachfront town, populated with several natives trying to keep alive a withering tourist area. We meet the town and several visitors. And I really mean, we meet THE TOWN, at least, a significant chunk of the town. I lost specific track of how many characters play a role--I'm going to guess about eight, but there could be more. This in and of itself is very different from Michael's usual approach, and quite a challenge. In terms of story telling, it's a simpler task to build your story around \"the couple\" and a couple supporting roles. In PC, we have at least three relationships to track, one in an abusive relationship with the antagonist, another plagued by guilt, plus an estranged family as a daughter has left her parents. And that doesn't even get into the gangster seeking vengeance who brings his posse of hit men into the mix. There's a great plot twist that hits early on, both surprising and bit confusing. To reveal what it is would be an injustice, but let's just say when I learned the secret of Poseidon's Children, some of the logic doesn't quite hold together for me. Overall, it's a minor quibble, like wondering why, in Bram Stoker's Dracula, a vampire who they establish can turn into a mist would crawl around outside along his castle wall apparently just for fun. Maybe a bit head-scratching, but it hardly ruins the experience. As with all of Michael's works, this one comes highly recommended. ...more I want to see the movie\u2014I certainly hope they\u2019ll make one. Poseidon\u2019s Children by Michael West reads with all the excitement and scares of a good Stephen King novel, filled with a fine mix of different characters, lots of interesting and believable viewpoints as events proceed, plenty of cliff-hangers, and an intriguing premise that goes from pleasantly disturbing to earth shatteringly dangerous. Plus, like the master, Michael West isn\u2019t afraid to kill off a few characters, leaving readers wonde I want to see the movie\u2014I certainly hope they\u2019ll make one. Poseidon\u2019s Children by Michael West reads with all the excitement and scares of a good Stephen King novel, filled with a fine mix of different characters, lots of interesting and believable viewpoints as events proceed, plenty of cliff-hangers, and an intriguing premise that goes from pleasantly disturbing to earth shatteringly dangerous. Plus, like the master, Michael West isn\u2019t afraid to kill off a few characters, leaving readers wondering who will survive. Two lovers walk by the sea. One screams. Another vacationer rushes to the beach to see what\u2019s wrong. And a shark attack opens the way to much much more. Maybe the town\u2019s just rallying around to protect the tourist trade, but soon it seems there\u2019s far more going on. An artist\u2019s dreams leave him wondering if his failure to act has killed someone. Meanwhile a shopkeeper wonders what else she could have done to protect her world. And Poseidon, it seems, does indeed have children in the sea. Legends rise from the past, a well-drawn tourist town clinging to its peaceful history while rebels try to bring past ancient times up to date, and terrors and scares abound. The story arcs twist and twine between scientists, tourists, townies, monsters and more, all coming together in a violent made-for-the-movies climax. But there are serious undertones making the scares worthwhile, lessons learned and wisdom conveyed as characters earn the strength to carry on. I\u2019m not sure what I expected from this tale, but I had a really hard time putting it down, loved the characters, loved the depth of the imagination, and thoroughly enjoyed an exciting, intriguing and delightfully scary read. Disclosure: I received a free ecopy of this novel from the publisher in exchange for my honest review. ...more I love how Michael took history and myth that we are all familiar with and incorporated it in his story in a new way. There are many legends about Poseidon god of the sea and Michael has created one that is elaborate and entertaining. It took me a little while to get into the story I can't say why this was as the story was good but guessing due to all the personal stuff I have going on but as I kept reading and the action started I realized one day that I had chewed half a nail off and that's whe I love how Michael took history and myth that we are all familiar with and incorporated it in his story in a new way. There are many legends about Poseidon god of the sea and Michael has created one that is elaborate and entertaining. It took me a little while to get into the story I can't say why this was as the story was good but guessing due to all the personal stuff I have going on but as I kept reading and the action started I realized one day that I had chewed half a nail off and that's when I had that moment of ohhhhh it's grabbed me hook, line and sinker. < Book related joke there. Hmm okay I'm not a comedian what can I say. The book starts off with a legendary city being found and then boats turning up with no people on board but lots of blood and gore. What happened on board and who is responsible? How does it all tie in with Larry who while vacationing on an island in New England witnesses what appears to be a shark attack. When it's discovered that the victims of the attack were the son and girlfriend of a mobster billionaire you have angry vengeful dad and his friends coming to town. Once the action started I was sucked in. It is a great tale with action, adventure, revenge, drama, mythology and the wildest sex scene I've ever read. Seventh Star Press should consider an erotic imprint as Michael West knows how to write a steamy scene even when one of those involved has gills. The horror had me biting my nails, the sex scene had me fanning my face and the story had me absorbed. A great book that I highly recommend. The first in an urban fantasy series The Legacy of the Gods looks to be a fantastic fun series and I am already looking forward to the next book. ...more This is a really great horror novel, especially for fans of Lovecraft, as I couldn't help but think of stories like Shadow Over Innsmouth. The book is well-paced, and is a great mix of horror, adventure, and near the climax, action. The story's varied characters (of which there are quite a few, as expanded upon below) all have their own goals, and it was great seeing how their individual plot threads interweave with all the others'. The novel has a large cast, but each new person is intriguing and This is a really great horror novel, especially for fans of Lovecraft, as I couldn't help but think of stories like Shadow Over Innsmouth. The book is well-paced, and is a great mix of horror, adventure, and near the climax, action. The story's varied characters (of which there are quite a few, as expanded upon below) all have their own goals, and it was great seeing how their individual plot threads interweave with all the others'. The novel has a large cast, but each new person is intriguing and most are given a good amount of character development, sometimes just before they die (so they don't feel like faceless victims.) Several of the characters have stereotypical dialogue or behaviors, but even they are given enough depth that this isn't a huge deal. The story and their individual goals are all interesting enough that the slightly cliched mannerisms can be ignored for the most part. There are a few backstory details that are constantly referenced to but not quite explained, even as the story goes on, which is a slight annoyance. It just requires filling in the blanks with logical guesses. Overall, a great story for fans of monsters and those who fight them. ...more Michael West has done it again! This is an intricate story, with lots of action; characters that become friends (even some of the bad guys!); and many surprises along the way. The story is told from several of the character's viewpoints, giving the reader a well-rounded view of the action, and creating empathy for all involved. Set on a romantic New England island, there's no disappointment in the love story, either. There's plenty of horror, humor, mystery, fantasy, and camaraderie. Michael West Michael West has done it again! This is an intricate story, with lots of action; characters that become friends (even some of the bad guys!); and many surprises along the way. The story is told from several of the character's viewpoints, giving the reader a well-rounded view of the action, and creating empathy for all involved. Set on a romantic New England island, there's no disappointment in the love story, either. There's plenty of horror, humor, mystery, fantasy, and camaraderie. Michael West blends it all perfectly, creating a very believable world of monsters that live among us. This book is a great read, and left me with many images that will play in my mind for years to come. I love this story, and I can't wait to read more of it in the next book. Check out the book's trailer: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGHjfA... ...more Book started out a bit slow but once the action started it just doesn't stop. If you like a bit of mythology, action and sex, this book is for you. http://mikesfilmtalk.com/2013/03/07/p... Maybe it's just me, but I don't read many books involving sea creatures, let alone mythical ones. One of those little oversights from my reading habits I suppose, so this novel was going to be a departure for me, at least in that regard. When I first read about this new urban fantasy from Seventh Star, I wondered if the \"urban\" actually meant Atlantis. I don't know if I could read an entire novel set underwater with mermen swimming about, so I was relieved that a lion's share of this book takes Maybe it's just me, but I don't read many books involving sea creatures, let alone mythical ones. One of those little oversights from my reading habits I suppose, so this novel was going to be a departure for me, at least in that regard. When I first read about this new urban fantasy from Seventh Star, I wondered if the \"urban\" actually meant Atlantis. I don't know if I could read an entire novel set underwater with mermen swimming about, so I was relieved that a lion's share of this book takes place above sea level. Colonial Bay is one of those quaint seaside towns along the New England coastline. The island on which it sits is a nice little tourist trap just off New Hampshire's shores, but things turn bloody after a supposed shark attack and a young couple goes missing. Sound a bit like Jaws? Well, maybe if Jaws had a baby with Jason Vorhees, because what artist Larry Neuhaus saw from his balcony didn't look entirely like a shark--it looked more like a man. Meanwhile, off the coast of Portugal, scientist and explorer, Carol Miyagi has discovered what she believes is Atlantis, relics of a long-lost city shrouded for centuries in a giant cavern beneath volcanic rock. The place is a veritable paradise for anyone in her field, but her claim on the spot is threatened as her team is running out of funding from their billionaire benefactor, and she doesn't want to risk having to leave the place unattended searching for more backers in case another team swooped in and takes the spoils. The billionaire in question, Roger Hays, however, is distracted from his business dealings because his son is one-half of that couple who went missing in Colonial Bay. As the assorted players converge on Colonial Bay, each for their own reasons, the violence escalates and it becomes clear that the town holds more than one secret, including a connection to that lost city, and there are forces at work attempting to let those secrets out. Where most urban fantasy novels I've read focus on the viewpoint of a single lead character, with a deeply personal narrative most of the time, Michael West has created a story that is as much event driven as it is character driven, with several characters offering viewpoints for the action and mystery to play out. Michael doesn't hold back on the gruesomeness, either. The introductory scene involving the \"shark\" attack gives a pretty clear idea that there will be more horrific elements than what readers might expect from conventional urban fantasy. What comes as no surprise, however, is the richly laid out history of the underwater progeny that are making their presence known. And by the time you reach the third act, all bets are off, and you wonder just where the story is going to lead in the next book. The ensemble cast, while engaging most of the time and offering several viewpoints, got mish-mashed for me at times. Just as I was settled into one character's take on events, the focus would switch. It didn't happen enough to really detract from the story, but it was a distraction for me at times. A couple standout characters for me really hit their stride towards the end of the novel, namely Earl Preston and Horror Show, a Coast Guard officer and hitman for Roger Hays respectively. Their interactions as the descendents of the underwater city come out of their shells--pun intended--and Roger Hays true intentions come to bear added a great bit of unlikely chemistry. Aside from them, I had trouble rallying behind the good guys, and really found the so-called villains to be the scene stealers. It's a good start to a series that offers a broad scope, but I have the feeling it will be the second book where the series really hits its stride. Poseidon's Children is a strong blend of sci-fi, fantasy, and horror, and it seems like it's about time some Atlantian-style source material got the spotlight. ...more To see this review and more like it check out my site, www.ufreviews.com It seems like lately I have had a lot of books to review that have fallen under the mythology themes. And this book proudly enters it into the list. I'm actually a little bit on the surprised side that I enjoyed the book as much as I did, and that's not because the book isn't good, it's because the book borders on that like between horror and urban fantasy. I love urban fantasy, but horror is just not my thing (I'm a big wi To see this review and more like it check out my site, www.ufreviews.com It seems like lately I have had a lot of books to review that have fallen under the mythology themes. And this book proudly enters it into the list. I'm actually a little bit on the surprised side that I enjoyed the book as much as I did, and that's not because the book isn't good, it's because the book borders on that like between horror and urban fantasy. I love urban fantasy, but horror is just not my thing (I'm a big wimp, I won't even go see scary movies). So when I started to realize this book had a bit of the horror genre in it, I was a little nervous but I stuck it out and I was happy that I did. I do have to say my only real complaint with the book was that the beginning was a bit on the slow side. I know writing a beginning to any book, or series involves a lot of set up by the author to put the infrastructure in place, so it's actually pretty common for me to find that a book starts a bit on the slow side. I will say that even though it starts off slow, it does pick up as the book goes on. One of things I appreciated about the book though was I think that there is a character out there for everyone. This book has a lot of characters in it, so you are pretty much guaranteed to find someone you like within, someone you can identify with and want to know more about. And the characters all compliment each other pretty well, which I think is a pretty nice achievement by the author, especially with a cast as large as it was in this book. I do really like that the book has a good pace. Once the book gets going it really doesn't stop, it keeps the reader interested in the plot throughout the entire thing. It does a really good job of making you want to know what is going to happen next. And the suspense factor in the book is also pretty good too, but I think that is a common element with the horror genre. The book is a really quality read. The writing is good, the plot line is solid, the characters are well formed and easy to identify with. I like any book that makes me think, and makes me think I know what is going to go on next and then have the author completely surprise me. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys urban fantasy or horror. But if you are like me and you avoid horror at all costs, I think you might want to give this one a try, because it really is a great molding of the two genres. ...more It's not often I find myself short of words on a book I've recently read, but such is the case with Michael West's Poseidon's Children . An odd mish-mash of various genres - horror, thriller, sci-fi, and urban fantasy - West here crafts a tale of a group of disparate characters stumbling across the existence of shape-shifting creatures that tie into the newly discovered city of Atlantis. West takes his time moving his characters into position, so some readers may find the first half of the novel s It's not often I find myself short of words on a book I've recently read, but such is the case with Michael West's Poseidon's Children . An odd mish-mash of various genres - horror, thriller, sci-fi, and urban fantasy - West here crafts a tale of a group of disparate characters stumbling across the existence of shape-shifting creatures that tie into the newly discovered city of Atlantis. West takes his time moving his characters into position, so some readers may find the first half of the novel slow. But there's little fat here, as his scenes all serve the purpose of providing some characterisation or deepening the mystery of what may be taking place within the town of Colonial Bay. I liked West's writing style; neither too wordy or too simple. But some of his characters failed to strike a chord for me. Perhaps this is because there are quite a few he juggles - arguably too many, as some are lost in the stampede within a novel of only 300 or so pages. Or perhaps it had more to do with certain characters being fairly generic, be it the \"crazy leader\", the \"nasty mob boss\", or the \"sympathetic local\". Regardless, this was a perfectly serviceable book that threw out some interesting new ideas. Being the first book in a series, a few plot threads are left dangling, but enough is explained that most will be left satisfied. I'll likely be searching out more from Michael West in the near future. 3 Sunken Monoliths for Poseidon's Children . Note : The edition I own from Seventh Star Press features random changes in font size throughout much of the book. It's not massive in difference, but large enough to be distracting from the story and downright confusing as I can't for the life of me imagine why a publisher would endorse such a thing... ...more I'm not really a lover of horror books and I know that Michael West's, Poseidon's Children is actually classified as an urban fantasy, but to me it was a great mixture of the two. Once I started reading Poseidon's Children, I really ended up liking it which really surprised me, seeing my normal taste in books. I really enjoyed that even thought there are so many characters in this book, I mean a lot of characters, I didn't have a hard time keeping up at all. Even with the switch from last name to I'm not really a lover of horror books and I know that Michael West's, Poseidon's Children is actually classified as an urban fantasy, but to me it was a great mixture of the two. Once I started reading Poseidon's Children, I really ended up liking it which really surprised me, seeing my normal taste in books. I really enjoyed that even thought there are so many characters in this book, I mean a lot of characters, I didn't have a hard time keeping up at all. Even with the switch from last name to first names at times, I always knew who the author was talking about. Just like I usually don't read horror stories I usually don't read books about sea creatures either, mainly because I've read a few and I have never been impressed with them, until now! This book got my attention right away with its amazing plot and great writing. I was really impressed with the flow of this story as well, it is a very well thought out plot that kept me right there reading the story the whole time. Michael West, is an tremendous author for mixing both urban fantasy and horror in this way and I might have to try a few other books of his. I'm really intrigued by the way he ended this book as well, setting up the next book in the series perfectly. ...more Any time I receive a free book, I always begin reading with rather low expectations. I mean, if it's free, it can't be that good, right? In this case, I was more than pleasantly surprised. I love good horror and fantasy titles, and this book certainly did not disappoint. Set in Colonial Bay, a quaint town in New England, the townspeople there are quite different from those found in surrounding areas. These townspeople represent the descendants of Poseidon with the ability to alternate between hum Any time I receive a free book, I always begin reading with rather low expectations. I mean, if it's free, it can't be that good, right? In this case, I was more than pleasantly surprised. I love good horror and fantasy titles, and this book certainly did not disappoint. Set in Colonial Bay, a quaint town in New England, the townspeople there are quite different from those found in surrounding areas. These townspeople represent the descendants of Poseidon with the ability to alternate between human form and their \"sea\" form at will. Having lived in Colonial Bay for the past 200 years, they hid their identity from humans and operated shops and businesses catering to the human trade. When the discovery of Atlantis ignites anger in some of the group and a desire to return to their own way of life, war is declared on humans. Dissension mounts even within their own community on whether to continue as they were are to strike back at humans who killed many of their numbers out of fear. This is a great read, and I recommend it for its originality, the writing, and character development. ...more Poseidon\u2019s Children by Michael West This book is a bit difficult to characterize. It is a thriller but it has science fiction overtones and perhaps urban fantasy with Children of the Corn and Al Capone. Archeologist trying to establish the whereabouts of Atlantis encounter a current situation that jeopardizes their lives and mental well being. I\u2019m not terrible thrilled with the first paragraph and its run on sentence but bear with me. Mr. West crafted both a thought provoking story and a tense, a Poseidon\u2019s Children by Michael West This book is a bit difficult to characterize. It is a thriller but it has science fiction overtones and perhaps urban fantasy with Children of the Corn and Al Capone. Archeologist trying to establish the whereabouts of Atlantis encounter a current situation that jeopardizes their lives and mental well being. I\u2019m not terrible thrilled with the first paragraph and its run on sentence but bear with me. Mr. West crafted both a thought provoking story and a tense, action packed runaway. You can get caught up in the action and miss the contemplation of how little we know of the bulk of our earthly environment, the seas. Interesting characters abound in this book. You have archeologists, artists, authors, gangsters, psychopaths, the Coast Guard and shape changers. West does a good job crafting each player and making them believable. The story is colorful, entertaining and well plotted. There is something for every reader and the story provides fodder for every imagination. I really enjoyed this book. I highly recommend. ...more A great story that held me, it is dark fantasy tipping close to the edge of pure horror. Michael West brought a tale worthy of Lovecraft to the 21st century, making it real and natural, bringing the unnatural brimming beneath the surface up from the depths. Read the rest of this review at I Smell Sheep Reviews: http://www.ismellsheep.com/2014/08/bo... If H.P. Lovecraft read X-Men and The Godfather, this is what he would right. Pure, thrilling awesomeness that grabs you from page one and will not let go. Horror, Fantasy, Sci-fi (Not SyFy!!!), Action, I don't care what you call it, man, this thing has it all! Made me want to read everything this guy has done. Can't wait for the next book in the series! what if Antlantis not only existed, but some of her people escaped. In this interesting and fast opaced thriller, two archaeologists stumble on some very weird happnings in a sleepy little New England waterside town. Some graphic violence. A refreshing read. A brand new breed of paranormal creatures. It gets a little confusing with all the new characters that are introduced, but they are an integral part of the ending. Great descriptions and imagery. A nice easy read! I would have given this book a four except that it had too many descriptions of carnage to suit me. The plot was good, and I liked the characters, though. If you don't mind some gore you'll love it. My complete review can be found on my blog along with a guest post with Roger Hays from the book. http://vampirekiss1967.blogspot.com/2... Well how can I not read this? As long as no harm comes to the gods, I'm happy.<---C>Preacher</---C>", "Title": "Poseidon\u2019s Children"},
