{"Comments": "<+++>Mortal Engines</+++> is an enchanting blend of steampunk, dystopia, and whimsy. The adventure is grand,<---M> the world is alive</---M>, and the characters are memorable. In the distant future, the earth is little more than barren landscape cluttered with the rusted remnants of crumbling infrastructure. People have raised the cities from the ground, retrofitting them with rolling tracks and steaming engines to prowl the wastes in search of smaller cities to devour for scrap. The mining town saw the danger and turn <+++>Mortal Engines</+++> is an enchanting blend of steampunk, dystopia, and whimsy. The adventure is grand, the world is alive, and the characters are memorable. In the distant future, the earth is little more than barren landscape cluttered with the rusted remnants of crumbling infrastructure. People have raised the cities from the ground, retrofitting them with rolling tracks and steaming engines to prowl the wastes in search of smaller cities to devour for scrap. The mining town saw the danger and turned tail, but already the huge caterpillar tracks under London were starting to roll faster and faster. Soon the city was lumbering in hot pursuit, a moving mountain of metal that rose in seven tiers like the layers of a wedding cake, the lower levels wreathed in engine smoke, the villas of the rich gleaming white on the higher decks, and above it all the cross on top of St. Paul's Cathedral glinting gold, two thousand feet above the ruined earth. Enter fifteen-year-old Tom, Third Class Apprentice to the Guild of Historians, who daydreams of rescuing pretty girls from air pirates. Tom could really use a little adventure in his life. Cue the mysterious girl with a terrible scar running down her face whose chance encounter with Tom leads to far more adventure than he bargained for. ...more It's town eat town world I separate YA dystopian books in two categories based on two popular series. Hunger games it's children and books similar to Chaos walking.<---F> Mortal engines is latter</---F>.While it's bit older they are definitively branches of the same tree which has roots in old fantasy. Mortal Engines is steampunk dystopia where after huge war ground become unstable and resources become scarce so entire settlements became mobile. Thousand years later and towns still roam and devour each other It's town eat town world I separate YA dystopian books in two categories based on two popular series. Hunger games it's children and books similar to Chaos walking. Mortal engines is latter.While it's bit older they are definitively branches of the same tree which has roots in old fantasy. Mortal Engines is steampunk dystopia where after huge war ground become unstable and resources become scarce so entire settlements became mobile. Thousand years later and towns still roam and devour each other for slaves and resources. Our protagonist is just poor boy, nobody loves him, who lives in one such city but his lives but after he stops one of towns officials being assassinated by mutilated girl things go badly for him as bunch of city's dirty secrets come to light and soon he finds himself out of town he knew all his life and on dangerous adventure with above mentioned girl in old fantasy style full of interesting places, people and well written banter. Overall 4.4 stars. I'm not mindblown but this was extremely fun and well written adventure in interesting setting. Warm recommendation. ...more New Review Upon Re-Reading Time has certainly tempered my approach to this series - particularly to this book - however I remain convinced that this work of fiction remains at a higher calibre of fiction than many others in the same subgenre of YA fiction. My re-read would therefore re-categorise it to closer to 4 or 4.5 stars in the light of the fact that I did not find it as engaging as reading it for the first time, and I hold to the notion that a book must be as fine the second time as it is New Review Upon Re-Reading Time has certainly tempered my approach to this series - particularly to this book - however I remain convinced that this work of fiction remains at a higher calibre of fiction than many others in the same subgenre of YA fiction. My re-read would therefore re-categorise it to closer to 4 or 4.5 stars in the light of the fact that I did not find it as engaging as reading it for the first time, and I hold to the notion that a book must be as fine the second time as it is the first. The novel is an apocalyptic YA fiction work, set far into the future where, as described in my original review: cities roam around as mobile vehicles which chase and 'eat' other cities for resources. The 'historians' on these cities hunt through the wreckage of prey for mysterious Old Tech such as 'seedys' (CDs). However, given that this is set far into the future such other 'Old Tech' exists such as robotically animated zombies called 'stalkers' which are reainimated corpses made for war and energy weapons - most of which has been lost to any semblance of society that remains. The setting is one of the most fascinating parts of this series - and as the series continues this setting develops and you see more fascinating science fiction concepts and greater development of the characters as well. Which is probably what I noticed about this first novel: while charming, the characters were slightly sketchy in terms of their descriptions and emotional construction. That said, as I also recall: the series becomes more emotional and romantic as it continues. All in all, a highly recommended series, possibly best aimed at 13-16 year olds, who are looking for something in a science fiction vein. It's certainly much better written than The Hunger Games and has as interesting or more interesting a world and characters! Original Review Mortal Engines as a series is a master-class in inventive YA science fiction. There are very few series where I can state that the last novel is my favourite in full honesty. Often I will read a series and the last novel will bring it all to a painful or awkward close. Which is what I am hoping will not happen with The Wheel of Time and the last Obernewtyn book. I do know for a fact that this is not what happened here. The world of Mortal Engines is dominated by Municipal Darwinism. This is the idea used to promote and state that the city-eat-city mentality is acceptable. So, you're saying, city-eat-city, is that a metaphor? Well not in this work of speculative fiction. In <---A>Philip Reeve</---A>'s post-apocalyptic world cities literally eat one another. They move on tractor treads and few people ever touch the ground. Tom, the main protagonist certainly had never touched ground until Hester Shaw knocked him off London. Well she was trying to escape her failed attempt to kill one of London's dignitaries and a kind of zombie robot. And so begins one intriguing and interesting journey for Tom and Hester as they try and stop a plot brewing on London itself. If you enter this series you will find technological discoveries, swords, guns, explosions, fireworks, loads of zombie robot machines and intriguing and zany characters of all racial types and genders. It's a brilliant series and one I would love to have on my bookshelf to own. ...more Most awesome book 4.5 stars! \"It\u2019s a town-eat-town world.\u201d \u2013Municipal Darwinism Municipal Darwinism is a concept that hooked me right from the first page. Imagine a society where hungry cities roam, searching for prey. Imagine these huge cities, shaped like giant steel tiered wedding cakes rumbling around the countryside gobbling up smaller towns and settlements. Imagine the noise, the dust, and the deep tracks in the mud. This is the intriguing world of the Mortal Engines . This is a world set fa Most awesome book 4.5 stars! \"It\u2019s a town-eat-town world.\u201d \u2013Municipal Darwinism Municipal Darwinism is a concept that hooked me right from the first page. Imagine a society where hungry cities roam, searching for prey. Imagine these huge cities, shaped like giant steel tiered wedding cakes rumbling around the countryside gobbling up smaller towns and settlements. Imagine the noise, the dust, and the deep tracks in the mud. This is the intriguing world of the Mortal Engines . This is a world set far into the future. Society has been destroyed by atomics and viruses in the Sixty Minute War. Cities became traction cities because of earthquakes, volcanic activity, and advancing glaciers. This book is full of awesomeness! The author\u2019s attention to details and his story telling talent made this a rich and textured read. The world building was, for lack of a better word, awesome. The technology is interesting. There are elements of steampunk. Everything usable is recycled. Society is even organized in hierarchies, but in this world, everyone is assigned to a guild. There be pirates in this book! There are airships, even an Airship city! There are resurrected men, a type of robot/zombie/Borg-like creature. There is even the mystical town of Shan Gao, a city protected from traction cities by its geography. This book is a feast for the eyes. I adored the main characters. <---C>Tom Natsworthy</---C> is a young, idealistic third class apprentice in the Guild of Historians. This means that he does a lot of dusting and cleaning of artifacts. He likes his job and is very loyal to the city of London. Tom lost his parents a few years ago in the Great Tilt (which is never explained in the book. I\u2019m assuming the city tilted and some people got squished). Hester Shaw is truly an interesting character. Seven years ago, Hester\u2019s parents were murdered by Valentine. Hester was also attacked and left for dead. Hester is heavily scarred by her ordeal and has vowed to kill Valentine. Valentine\u2019s daughter Katherine plays the role of dutiful daughter until she learns of her father\u2019s nefarious activities. Aided by the engineer Bevis Pod (love that name!), Katherine seeks out the truth. I found these characters endearing and I felt like cheering them on when they encountered obstacles. And these characters encountered many obstacles. Tom and Hester are thrown off the city, captured by pirates, rescued by an airship captain, chased by a resurrected man and more. Added to this mix of adventure was the mysterious MEDUSA, some kind of weapon from an earlier civilization. This is a clever, well written book. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I\u2019m looking forward to reading Predator\u2019s Gold , the next book in this series. By the way, I handed my 11 year old this book and he was also hooked - he loves it! ...more Originally Posted on Guy Gone Geek With the dystopian boom the market is now seeing, it\u2019s kind of hard to find a true dystopian novel. Strange, isn\u2019t it? There are lots of \u2018dystopian\u2019 novels being published these days but only few of it really fits the genre. Yeah, some books tries but that\u2019s what makes the difference: it tries, it doesn\u2019t just be. Gone was the bleak tone of the narrative. Gone was the relentless nature of the society. Gone was the subtle questions the readers have to ask themsel Originally Posted on Guy Gone Geek With the dystopian boom the market is now seeing, it\u2019s kind of hard to find a true dystopian novel. Strange, isn\u2019t it? There are lots of \u2018dystopian\u2019 novels being published these days but only few of it really fits the genre. Yeah, some books tries but that\u2019s what makes the difference: it tries, it doesn\u2019t just be. Gone was the bleak tone of the narrative. Gone was the relentless nature of the society. Gone was the subtle questions the readers have to ask themselves. What we have instead is a love story that happens to occur in a pseudo-dystopian\u2013 pseudo because it feels completely artificial\u2013 society. It sucks. I\u2019m not saying that a dystopian novel can\u2019t have a love story in it. It can but it doesn\u2019t have to be the element that thrust the narrative forward and it certainly doesn\u2019t have to be the only thing that defines and motivates the heroes. Remember MT Anderson\u2019s Feed? One of the best in this genre, in my opinion. Romance was very prominent in that book but it was never wholly about the romance. Of course, we have different standards as to what books we qualify as dystopian. I am just speaking for myself and I am simply not a fan of the kind of dystopian novels that are being published recently. How do I satisfy my hunger for books that in my standards qualifies as dystopian? I look for titles that were released before the genre became insanely popular. That is exactly how I came across Philip Reeve\u2019s Mortal Engines. I can say that this strategy works because Mortal Engines is an honest-to-goodness dystopian novel. I love it. After a long time of staying idle, the London traction city is back on its wheels, ready to hunt smaller towns. Everyone in the city is excited including Tom Natsworthy, a third-class apprentice in the Guild of Historians. But after saving his hero who is also the city\u2019s darling, Valentine, from an assassination attempt, he found himself thrown off the mobile city with no less that the would-be assassin herself, Hester Shaw. As he spends time with this mysterious and scarred girl and board mobile town after mobile town in hope of chasing his beloved city, he slowly uncover the truth behind the Lord Mayor\u2019s decision to return to the Hunting Ground. Tom has to choose a side and act fast before history repeats itself and the civilization he know meets its doom. One of the most notable things about Mortal Engines is Philip Reeve\u2019s finesse on tying together pacing and world-building, something we don\u2019t get to see too often. The world as we know it almost died after the so-called 60-Minute War, leaving few cities with a poisoned land and scarce resources. In order to survive to this kind of environment, these cities adapted Municipal Darwinism, a system in which they had to build their cities on wheels and hunt one another to get resources. This system resulted to a literal town-eats-town world. Without reading the book, it is rather hard to wrap your head around this idea but the amount of detail Philip Reeve puts into the novel made this idea appear plausible. It felt complete and it made a lot of sense. After reading that paragraph, it would seem that this novel is heavy on world-building. It is not. Trust me, I put down a lot of epic fantasy books already because of its exhausting information dumps just to create a believable world. Mortal Engines is a mile far from those kind of books. There was not a point in the novel when Tom and Hester\u2019s adventure was halted to give way to detailed explanations of how different their world is from us. It\u2019s an exhilirating chase to the breathtaking(and harrowing) finale. You\u2019d be at the edge of your seat every moment of their thrilling adventure. The complexity of the characters are also worth mentioning. As we explore the vast emptiness of the Hunting Ground, we are also introduced to the characters, who they are, what they want and what motivates them. This doesn\u2019t applies only to the lead characters but also the secondary ones, and it\u2019s a pretty big cast, mind you. These characters make the terrible mistakes and pay for it later on. They have unpleasant motivations. They are certainly the kind of people in their history that almost killed earth. These characters are incredibly flawed that makes them incredibly human. Mortal Engines can be enjoyed on so many levels. Philip Reeve is an author that doesn\u2019t compromise. The amount of thought he gave into realizing his imagined world, weaving plot points, creating tension and drawing complex characters makes this novel worth-reading. This is a very gripping and grim story set in a fully-realized dystopian society \u2014 this is exactly how I want my dystopian novels served. ...more I enjoyed it more than I thought I would. It's has a great concept: mobile cities roam Europe \"eating\" each other. It has a nice, if off-beat, feel for London. On the plus side, the novel actively attacks heroic ideals, leaving a darker, more morally ambiguous world view than I'd expected. I especially liked how Reeve initially juxtaposes the beautiful, \"High London\" girl Kate, who is oblivious to the oppression that keeps her world afloat, with a physically and mentally scarred Hester, who is b I enjoyed it more than I thought I would. It's has a great concept: mobile cities roam Europe \"eating\" each other. It has a nice, if off-beat, feel for London. On the plus side, the novel actively attacks heroic ideals, leaving a darker, more morally ambiguous world view than I'd expected. I especially liked how Reeve initially juxtaposes the beautiful, \"High London\" girl Kate, who is oblivious to the oppression that keeps her world afloat, with a physically and mentally scarred Hester, who is bent on revenge: rather than use the beauty as a foil to show the inner beauty of the Hester, both are mixed characters and watching their personal growth was one of the most satisfying parts of the book. However, the writing style is a little exposition heavy at times when it comes to the characters feelings and motivations, but becomes less obtrusive as the plot progresses. Some of the plot elements are pretty generic, such as the half-machine, half-resurrected corpse who hunts down the child he once protected (at one point, a character wonders if it's possible for this \"machine\" to have feelings: hmmmm . . . gee, you think so?). The female characters were very well-done, but I agree with several of the other reviews, that the protagonist, Tom, wasn't very interesting. I'm debating about reading the rest of the trilogy now or waiting until later: I'm interested in seeing where Reeve goes with the plot, but not excited enough to pick up the volumes that are literally at my feet right now. ...more Dear reader, MAGNIFICENT READ. FAST PACED. EXCITEMENT!!! I don\u2019t have enough words to describe how much I enjoyed this book. The genre, post-apocalyptic steampunk science fiction, has made it into one of my top favourite genres; it totally submerged me intoa new world. Reeve introduces us into a new, strange, colourful, yet gritty world, ruled by \u201cMunicipalDarwinism\u201d (town-eat-town world). His world-building was exceptional, creating an adventurous environment where cities move and \u201ceat\u201d each othe Dear reader, MAGNIFICENT READ. FAST PACED. EXCITEMENT!!! I don\u2019t have enough words to describe how much I enjoyed this book. The genre, post-apocalyptic steampunk science fiction, has made it into one of my top favourite genres; it totally submerged me intoa new world. Reeve introduces us into a new, strange, colourful, yet gritty world, ruled by \u201cMunicipalDarwinism\u201d (town-eat-town world). His world-building was exceptional, creating an adventurous environment where cities move and \u201ceat\u201d each other to take control of their resources and their people. The story is set into an alternate post-apocalyptic era, where the Earth as we know it was destroyed by the Sixty-minute war. Thereafter, the survivors built cities with claws on wheels to travel the grounds and eat each other. Municipal Darwinism is a version of Darwin\u2019s \u201csurvival of the fittest\u201d, but applied to entire moving cities, their resources, and their people. There are people in favour of the moving cities and those who oppose it completely (static settlements). This story weaves idea of imperialism (which city is the most fearsome and powerful), civilization, terrorism, freedom fighting, and environmentalism (with ideals of turning the world green again) and blends them into the plot. The plot is fast-paced and action and adventure oriented; everything happens so fast that you don\u2019t want to miss anything. My mouth dropped several times because of the unexpected and continuous twists. The two main characters are completely opposite to each other, and yet complement each other. In the one hand, Tom Natsworthy, an apprentice historian, has preconceived notions of nobility and what\u2019s right from wrong, and of civility, which shapes his shy, reluctant, and almost cowardly character in the face of danger. On the other hand, Hester Shaw is not the usual beautiful and suffocating sweet girl in order to be likable; she is described as a hideous, blood-thirsty, and strong girl. I dare say she is my favourite character because she is not the damsel in distress; instead, she is cunning, smart, resourceful, and deadly. Through Tom and Hester\u2019s adventure, we get a glimpse of the main elements of the story as they travel together through the Out-Country on foot; evading a Resurrected Man built with ancient technology that is trying to kill them, and rushing to save the world\u2019s largest static settlement, Shan Guo, from its total destruction by a deadly weapon (Medusa), created by the London engineers. A real page turner with airships, quirky gods, and cities moving along barren lands, this is an adventure you wouldn\u2019t want to miss. Highly recommended. Real page turner. Will leave you with your mouth WIDE OPEN. You will be \"OMG-ing\" ALL the time. Totally unexpected twists. LOVE IT! Happy reading. my fondest valedictory, CS ...more Mortal Engines is a wonderfully odd, action packed, steampunk YA book that I never would have picked up if it weren\u2019t for a recommendation from Ashley . It was a strange one for me to read and an even stranger one to review. This story is set in a post-apocalyptic world where the societal norm is for towns and cities to be vertical and mobile. They acquire resources, art and workers by overpowering, or \u201ceating\u201d as they put it, smaller towns. Then there are the \u201canti-tractionists\u201d who live in stat Mortal Engines is a wonderfully odd, action packed, steampunk YA book that I never would have picked up if it weren\u2019t for a recommendation from Ashley . It was a strange one for me to read and an even stranger one to review. This story is set in a post-apocalyptic world where the societal norm is for towns and cities to be vertical and mobile. They acquire resources, art and workers by overpowering, or \u201ceating\u201d as they put it, smaller towns. Then there are the \u201canti-tractionists\u201d who live in stationary (ordinary to you and me) towns. These anti-tractionists must go to great lengths to hide and protect their towns from the \u201cMunicipal Darwinism\u201d of their \u201ctown eat town world.\u201d Where this story didn\u2019t quite work for me was in the telling of it. Phillip Reeves created an amazing world with complex issues and wonderfully flawed characters. Yet the story is told from an omniscient point of view which, combined with the non-stop action, large number of characters and very little internal monologue, left me feeling somewhat distant from the story. Instead of a novel worthy of immersing myself in, Mortal Engines made me long to watch it in a mini-series. Perhaps actors could bring more life to the characters than what Reeves has written? I liked the people he presented, but he only reveals what they are thinking or doing at the exact moment. He never really gives us a chance to know them. And as a result, despite the incredible detail obviously given to this book, the characters tend to fall a little flat. The writing style reminds me of that which is reserved for younger YA, yet Reeves offers difficult topics and this book takes quite a few dark turns that may not be appropriate for younger readers. As I said, this is difficult to review. I loved the book, but wanted a little more depth out of it. Even so, I for sure recommend this for lovers of post-apocalyptic YA, or just any YA fan who needs a break from all of the drama and the angst. Although this is a series, Mortal Engines is easily a standalone book. If you don\u2019t like it, there aren\u2019t any nasty cliff hangers waiting to suck you even further into the series. Really, my review doesn\u2019t do this story any justice. Read Ashley\u2019s review (which I linked above) then go read this book =) I rated this 3 stars, but really 3.5 or even 3.75 ~ yeah, that's nitpicking! The only thing stopping me from rating Mortal Engines 4 stars or higher is the emotional disconect I felt. Oterwise, it's an awesome book! ...more I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK. One of my favourite books (and series) of all time. I've rated less than 10 books five stars, ever. Less than 10. These are the books I absolutely love; I'm completely blind to their flaws and will sit there and worship them. Mortal Engines is one such book. Reeve writes an astonishing story with a brilliant and engaging plot. The world-building is fantastic: many centuries into the future, where cities are on wheels and wander over the earth eating smaller cities. It I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK. One of my favourite books (and series) of all time. I've rated less than 10 books five stars, ever. Less than 10. These are the books I absolutely love; I'm completely blind to their flaws and will sit there and worship them. Mortal Engines is one such book. Reeve writes an astonishing story with a brilliant and engaging plot. The world-building is fantastic: many centuries into the future, where cities are on wheels and wander over the earth eating smaller cities. It's very fast-paced and never disappoints. I was on tenterhooks throughout the entire thing and got so attached to the characters. The characters themselves are works of art, particularly the female ones. Excuse me while I fangirl. So first of all there's Katherine Valentine. She's strong and intelligent, and she won't let herself be pushed around. She's loyal, and she doesn't fall to pieces and lose all common sense at the sight of the love interest. (Yes, there is a love interest, and he's adorable.) She is one of the very few strong female characters in YA literature. Then, there's Hester Shaw. HESTER @\u00a3$%^&*! Shaw. She's the most badass character you will ever meet. She is scarred (physically and metaphorically) and she's developed this hard, cold-blooded exterior to cope with it. No, she isn't one of those sad, 'broken' heroines you see often. Her character development is totally fascinating. She has no scruples and doesn't care about anyone else, and to be honest she's totally horrible. But she's wonderful, absolutely wonderful. And did I mention badass? God, she's amazing. (And her romance is really sweet.) Anyway. Go read this book. Go see why I rated it five stars. Go fall in love like I did. ...more Kitabi okumadan \u00f6nce orta seviyeli \u00e7erezlik bi kitap bekliyordum ben. Ama Y\u00fcr\u00fcyen Kentler vay sen misin beni k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck g\u00f6ren diyerekten a\u011fz\u0131m\u0131n pay\u0131n\u0131 verdi bana. Konusu okudu\u011fum kitaplar i\u00e7indeki en \u00f6zg\u00fcn konulardan biriydi. Insanlar, hayvanlar y\u00fcr\u00fcr tamam ama KENTLER?! I\u015fte bu kitapta banliy\u00f6ler, kentler alt\u0131nda paletler var ve s\u00fcrekli bi hareket halindeler. Kendinden k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck olanlar\u0131 yemek i\u00e7in koval\u0131yorlar, k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck olanlar da ka\u00e7\u0131\u015f halinde. Kitap hep olayl\u0131yd\u0131, bu y\u00fczden elimden b\u0131rakamad\u0131m ben. Yaza Kitabi okumadan \u00f6nce orta seviyeli \u00e7erezlik bi kitap bekliyordum ben. Ama Y\u00fcr\u00fcyen Kentler vay sen misin beni k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck g\u00f6ren diyerekten a\u011fz\u0131m\u0131n pay\u0131n\u0131 verdi bana. Konusu okudu\u011fum kitaplar i\u00e7indeki en \u00f6zg\u00fcn konulardan biriydi. Insanlar, hayvanlar y\u00fcr\u00fcr tamam ama KENTLER?! I\u015fte bu kitapta banliy\u00f6ler, kentler alt\u0131nda paletler var ve s\u00fcrekli bi hareket halindeler. Kendinden k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck olanlar\u0131 yemek i\u00e7in koval\u0131yorlar, k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck olanlar da ka\u00e7\u0131\u015f halinde. Kitap hep olayl\u0131yd\u0131, bu y\u00fczden elimden b\u0131rakamad\u0131m ben. Yazar \u00e7at\u0131r \u00e7utur karakter \u00f6ld\u00fcrd\u00fc :(. George R.R.Martin'den sonra en ac\u0131mas\u0131z yazar se\u00e7iyorum kendisini. Ana karakterler olan Tom ve Hester'i de \u00e7ok sevdim ben. Aralar\u0131ndaki sevgi \u00e7ok g\u00fczeldi ve \u00e7o\u011funlukla kitaplarda ana karakterler fiziksel olarak m\u00fckemmele yak\u0131n olurlar ama bu kitapta \u00f6yle de\u011fildi, bu ayr\u0131nt\u0131 ho\u015fuma gitti. ...more https://www.bookstr.com/article/peter... 2018 film: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1571234/f... James Cameron needn't wait another decade to make his next blockbuster. I have it next to me; or Peter Jackson could make it. I'd rather Tarantino didn't, but you never know. I have the book. The one that children will dress up for, the one that will see as many adult fans as children, the one with three more books to follow, a potential goldmine. Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines is so visually gorgeous that kites flutter from the snowy mountains as you glide above in your airship, oblivious entire James Cameron needn't wait another decade to make his next blockbuster. I have it next to me; or Peter Jackson could make it. I'd rather Tarantino didn't, but you never know. I have the book. The one that children will dress up for, the one that will see as many adult fans as children, the one with three more books to follow, a potential goldmine. Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines is so visually gorgeous that kites flutter from the snowy mountains as you glide above in your airship, oblivious entirely to the reading of words, the turning of pages. A grimy jewel of steampunk artistry, airships and cities floating in the air meet the intensely creepy Guild of Engineers, with their chemically hairless skulls and long white rubber coats. Luckily for such a fantastic, imaginative book, Reeve's narrative voice is so coherent and so subtle that you are allowed to tumble straight into the action of the book. The entirely familiar (we are in the Natural History Museum when the book begins) meets the astonishingly strange \u2013 huge rebel civilizations holed up in the Himalayas. Reeve is certainly an artist. The two protagonists, one sheltered, na\u00efve and optimistic, one painfully sceptical and streetwise (or earthwise, perhaps), play off the readers' reactions between them. This means you're never allowed to slip out of contact with the narrative. Cleverly interplaying the reader's reactions with those of the characters, Reeve ensures we read just as he would like, anticipating our responses and buffering them with his witty, scared, hearty characters. The book has one of the best opening lines in children's literature: 'It was a dark blustery afternoon in spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea'. From that very first line, you are dragged, exhilarated and gasping, across the world. The narrative never slows, even for a moment, pitching the reader into new and dangerous places. Mortal Engines also has the most fantastic concept on its side. The world's cities are scattered and voracious, mounted on huge tracks to cross the wastelands made by the Sixty Minute War millennia before. Remnants from the previous civilisation are greedily hoarded, from CDs (Tom, the almost dislikeable protagonist, gives his 'seedy' away and bitterly regrets it), to mechanical soldiers made from the corpses of men, and, worst of all, atomic weapons. If there is a term I despise, it is 'unputdownable'. No one glued Mortal Engines to my fingers, and I put it down several times, sometimes for whole minutes. There were even hours where I didn't read it, though that was, admittedly, because I was sleeping. In truth this is perhaps the most successfully realised book I have read in a long time. The sensitive, frank narrative voice combines with two superb central characters, Tom and Hester. Tom is a London boy, an apprentice to the Guild of Historians, fiercely loyal to his insatiable city. Hester has lived her life on the ground stripped bare by municipal Darwinism (and if that phrase didn't make you shiver with glee, then you and I must never meet). Hester is ugly, bearing huge facial and emotional scars, an unapproachable, bitter, angry girl, who steadfastly refuses to be a romantic heroine. The two weave their way warily round each other, tentatively finding common ground, awkwardly negotiating. It's engrossing, uncomfortable, exquisite writing. Did I mention that this book has to be adapted to film? Reeve has elbowed his way into the competitive world of children's literature by being extraordinarily skilled. The book is hugely visual, and leaves you with a sensation of having witnessed something spectacular. He never falters, his sure, bold voice unrolling the world before us. Like Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow, or The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, a Mortal Engines film would be an alluring, terrifying world firmly in the steampunk genre. I believe it's this 'steampunk' styling that entices so many adult readers. A combination of Victorian technology \u2013 steam power, brass rivets, goggles and a slightly Frankenstein obsession with death and reanimation \u2013 and ridiculous, fantastic invention, steampunk takes over where sci-fi fails. When horrible apocalyptic disasters seem suddenly far more likely (is anyone else playing race the raindrops with climate change versus rogue state?), steampunk assures us that something else is entirely plausible. It proffers technology, made sexy with some cogs and exciting with steam and a bit gothic with some rivets and fire, and says, soothingly, 'here, look, we will survive anything with this and a good dirigible or two'. And it makes it clear we will survive in sexy riding boots, corsets and tan leather coats, which is ideal as far as I'm concerned. For this reason and many others, Mortal Engines is one of very few books I would issue with an adult cover. I liked it so much that I feel a little pitying towards those who haven't already read it. So much, in fact, that in my feverish excitement I appear to have contracted a case of clich\u00e9-itis. I want to say it's a romp. And thrilling. I find the phrase 'if you only read one book...' leaping into my mind, running round my brain as embarrassing and difficult to ignore as a flasher. I want to say that children will love it, which is surely a death knell for all but the best children's books. It really isn't clear whether Reeve was expecting adults to read the book. It is a children's book: you can tell by the way all the parents are cheerfully knocked off as soon as possible, except for the one who turns out to be evil. Of course. There are other predictable elements: the adults they encounter are usually either bumbling, bad and beastly, or rebellious, good, exciting and fun. They are scheming, unreliable and often stupid. There are so many references, though, that I am unsure children will even notice. At one point, the children find themselves on the 'pirate suburb' of Tunbridge Wheels; London's moment comes when it faces the huge conurbation of Panzerstadt-Bayreuth. English is known as 'Anglish', which seems perfectly reasonable when you consider it. The whole conceit of municipal Darwinism, with cities hunting each other down, stripping their victims of their resources, desperately recycling everything (even bodies) between catches, seems a very adult, threatening world. Luckily the magnificence of the whole thing saves it from unrelenting darkness. Reeve lifts the story up, in hot air balloons and airships, letting us see the greater, terrifying, brilliant whole. Perhaps this is where Reeve really slips into brilliance; the book's extraordinary humanity. He teeters over a grim, desperate post-apocalyptic world, and makes it marvellous by peopling it with beautiful, fallible, credible civilisations. Like Pandora in Cameron's realisation of Avatar, it's a world so radiant it leaves you a little sad that it is so far out of reach. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to don my flying goggles. ...more I\u2019ve seen this book with a YA label on the cover and I thought it was silly for a book to be labeled a genre on it. Since I heard about the book before, I went home along with this. Yeepah! Tom Natsworthy is a third-class Historian apprentice of New London, since his parents died and left him with small amount of money that could only support a third class of apprenticeship. Being a Londoner is a pride but being a third-class apprentice is mock. When he meets for the second time his hero, Timothy I\u2019ve seen this book with a YA label on the cover and I thought it was silly for a book to be labeled a genre on it. Since I heard about the book before, I went home along with this. Yeepah! Tom Natsworthy is a third-class Historian apprentice of New London, since his parents died and left him with small amount of money that could only support a third class of apprenticeship. Being a Londoner is a pride but being a third-class apprentice is mock. When he meets for the second time his hero, Timothy Valentine and has saved his life. Instead of honoring him, he has got himself out of the running island of London. Hester Shaw is a girl who survived from a massacre. Her parent\u2019s murdered but she remained alive and lives with a scar that reminds her of the reason she lives for. She must take revenge against a man who murdered her family. When she gets her chance to kill the murderer, a boy intervenes. Unexpectedly, the same boy travels with her to hunt down the murderer they both now loath. This book is surprisingly good. I mean really good. Before my main review, I don\u2019t know if this is a dystopia or a steampunk since the book has the two qualities to consider either of them. But I think this is a cross-genre of steampunk and dystopia, if my sources are right that steampunk isn\u2019t just set during Victorian era but any era as long as engines are in it. But if you\u2019re looking for some kind of steampunk of book, I highly recommend this. Back to really good, this book has made my taste. I like the new world. This book shows different world unlike the previous dystopian novels I\u2019ve read. The world sets in the future but bringing with it the Victorian era. If we\u2019ll think of future, technology might be the first thing to come to our mind because it\u2019s pretty obvious that as year passes by, the technology is becoming better and better. And to think of its downfall in the future is really unimaginable. But Reeve made it possible. The present technologies we have as if forgotten in this book that depicts how far the year they are from us. Among the dystopian novels I\u2019ve read, this is the farthest to the possibility of the future. The idea of the book is really cool but where\u2019s the science in a walking city? This is one of the heartbreaking books I\u2019ve read so far. I can\u2019t imagine the loss in the story\u2026 it saddened me a lot. I was hoping for a bright future of the heroes here in the sequel of this series but it distressed me to know that it may not happen anymore. I don\u2019t want to discuss it any further; I may have given the titanic spoiler. Among the characters, I liked Grike. The people who have read this might think I\u2019ve gone nuts. Yes, if it is what it takes for them to believe me. Why Grike? Behind his monstrous features, I admire his heart\u2019s desire. After the squeezing of my brain, I still did not guess what his heart really desires. And now I\u2019m sorry for him. I wasn\u2019t really paying attention in the story that I didn\u2019t notice the biggest twist of the story at the near-end of the book. I didn\u2019t see it coming, but there\u2019s still in me that think that it could have been unnoticeable still. It was as if the turning point of the event\u2014turning point of the character\u2019s interest. Only one thing negative that must be said, I wasn\u2019t contented at how this book ended. ...more Philip Reeven \"K\u00e4velev\u00e4t koneet\" (Karisto, 2004) maalaa lukijansa silmien eteen huikean maailman, jossa yhden tunnin sota on tuhonnut sivilisaation sellaisena kuin me sen tunnemme ja ihmiskunta el\u00e4\u00e4 h\u00f6yryvoiman liikuttamissa kaupungeissa. Nuori museoharjoittelija Tom Natsworthy joutuu todistamaan murhayrityst\u00e4, jonka kohteeksi joutuu h\u00e4nen idolinsa, historioitsija ja tutkimusmatkailija herra Valentine. Attentaatin seurauksena Tom tempautuu mukaan seikkailuun, jossa omaa rooliaan n\u00e4yttelev\u00e4t muun Philip Reeven \"K\u00e4velev\u00e4t koneet\" (Karisto, 2004) maalaa lukijansa silmien eteen huikean maailman, jossa yhden tunnin sota on tuhonnut sivilisaation sellaisena kuin me sen tunnemme ja ihmiskunta el\u00e4\u00e4 h\u00f6yryvoiman liikuttamissa kaupungeissa. Nuori museoharjoittelija Tom Natsworthy joutuu todistamaan murhayrityst\u00e4, jonka kohteeksi joutuu h\u00e4nen idolinsa, historioitsija ja tutkimusmatkailija herra Valentine. Attentaatin seurauksena Tom tempautuu mukaan seikkailuun, jossa omaa rooliaan n\u00e4yttelev\u00e4t muun muassa kiertelev\u00e4t merirosvot, ihmisen ja koneen v\u00e4limuodoksi tuomittu raatelukyntinen tappokone Shrike, ilmalaivaansa halki taivaan k\u00e4skytt\u00e4v\u00e4 naiskapteeni Anna Fang ja kostonhimon eteenp\u00e4in ajama Hester Shaw, nuori tytt\u00f6, jonka kasvot ovat kammottavalla tavalla silpoutuneet. \"K\u00e4velev\u00e4t koneet\" on sarjan ensimm\u00e4inen osa, mutta se toimii kyll\u00e4 my\u00f6s yksitt\u00e4isen\u00e4 romaanina. Seikkailu tempaa mukaansa heti alkumetreilt\u00e4 l\u00e4htien, eik\u00e4 tahti hidastu miss\u00e4\u00e4n vaiheessa. Tarina saa paikoitellen aika hurjiakin piireit\u00e4. V\u00e4kivalta ja kuolema ovat alati l\u00e4sn\u00e4, mik\u00e4 pudottanee kyll\u00e4 kaikkein nuorimmat lukijat pois kuvasta, mutta sopii hyvin toivottomaan ja lohduttomaan dystopiaan. Vaikka perusidea k\u00e4velevist\u00e4 kaupungeist\u00e4 tuntui alkuunsa v\u00e4h\u00e4n h\u00f6lm\u00f6lt\u00e4, on se kuitenkin yll\u00e4tt\u00e4v\u00e4n toimiva. Lis\u00e4ksi henkil\u00f6hahmot ovat kiinnostavia ja kaikessa ep\u00e4t\u00e4ydellisyydess\u00e4\u00e4n ja kompleksisuudessaan tavattoman rakastettavia ja kiinnostavia, eiv\u00e4tk\u00e4 n\u00e4iden kohtalot tunne yhdentekevilt\u00e4. Muutamista kirjailijan valinnoista suorastaan j\u00e4rkyttyy... Kai kirjassa vikojakin on, mutta harvemmin nuortenromaani tekee en\u00e4\u00e4 t\u00e4ss\u00e4 i\u00e4ss\u00e4 yht\u00e4 kovaa vaikutusta kuin nyt. T\u00e4ydet viisi t\u00e4hte\u00e4. ...more I LOVED LOVED LOVED this book! everything about it was just brilliant! from the world to the city's eating each other - yes I did mean to say that!! - to the outrageous, fabulous, lovable, fantastic characters. what a brilliant idea for city to eat each other!! \"its a town eat town world out there\" I have never come across an idea like this before and I just loved the concept. it was awesome how everyday things to us blew their minds, and in return the mortal engines tech blew my mind! from the mov I LOVED LOVED LOVED this book! everything about it was just brilliant! from the world to the city's eating each other - yes I did mean to say that!! - to the outrageous, fabulous, lovable, fantastic characters. what a brilliant idea for city to eat each other!! \"its a town eat town world out there\" I have never come across an idea like this before and I just loved the concept. it was awesome how everyday things to us blew their minds, and in return the mortal engines tech blew my mind! from the moving cities, to the flying town, the half human half machine men.... really I could continue but then i'd ruin half the fun for you! the characters where great! they grew over the period of the book, which was fantastic to experience, my fave deff having to be Hester! I cannot wait for the next book in this series to see what Hester and Tom get up to next! ...more Yorumun asl\u0131 ve devam\u0131 Yorum Cad\u0131s\u0131 'nda. Y\u00fcr\u00fcyen Kentler , daha \u00f6nce okumad\u0131\u011f\u0131ma pi\u015fman oldu\u011fum kitaplar kategorisinin ilk s\u0131ralar\u0131nda yer al\u0131yor. Yarat\u0131c\u0131 kurgusu, s\u00fcrprizlerle dolu olay \u00f6rg\u00fcs\u00fc ve kaliteli bas\u0131m\u0131yla favorilerim aras\u0131nda. T\u00fcr\u00fc ne olursa olsun, kurmaca kitaplar\u0131 seviyorsan\u0131z Y\u00fcr\u00fcyen Kentler 'e bir \u015fans verin derim ;) It was a dark, blustery afternoon in spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea. In happier times, London would never have bothered with such feeble prey. The great Traction City had once spent its days hunting far bigger towns than this, ranging north as far as the edge of the Ice Wastes and south to the shores of the Mediterranean. But lately prey of any kind had started to grow scarce, and some of the larger cities had begun to It was a dark, blustery afternoon in spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea. In happier times, London would never have bothered with such feeble prey. The great Traction City had once spent its days hunting far bigger towns than this, ranging north as far as the edge of the Ice Wastes and south to the shores of the Mediterranean. But lately prey of any kind had started to grow scarce, and some of the larger cities had begun to look hungrily at London. For ten years now it had been hiding from them, skulking in a damp, mountainous western district that the Guild of Historians said had once been the island of Britain. For ten years it had eaten nothing but tiny farming towns and static settlements in those wet hills. Now, at last, the Lord Mayor had decided that the time was right to take his city back over the land bridge into the Great Hunting Ground. I don't know about you, but this one had me hooked from the beginning. In this fun science fiction series, it's a town-eat-town world ruled by municipal Darwinism. London is a city on the go, on the move. And for better or worse, Tom is along for the ride. Tom Natsworthy is an apprentice. True, he's just a third apprentice...and an orphan at that. But he's as content as a boy can be under the circumstances. But when Tom witnesses something he shouldn't--no matter that he'd just saved Mr. Valentine's life--his new life of danger and adventure is off to a brutal start. Tom's new companion--the young girl who got him into this mess of an adventure is Hester Shaw, a flawed and scarred character if ever there was one. But this encounter leaves an unintended impression on another teenager as well...a Miss Katherine Valentine. All three teens will in one way or another impact the world, save it even. I won't go into all the ins and outs of the plots--the different factions the world is broken into, the danger that Medusa poses to the world, the need for a hero or two to risk it all. The world Reeve has created is an interesting one. One that you may enjoy reading about--I know I did--but that you'd never want to live in yourself. It's a fast-paced, sci-fi adventure with danger and mystery and the slightest smidgen of romance. \u00a9 Becky Laney of Becky's Book Reviews ...more Excellent steampunk novel aimed at a YA/teenage audience. This took me longer to read than it should but I blame the fact I went out three nights in a row so I couldn't really sit down and read it. Not drunk anyway. The premise of this novel is very original: a thousand years into the future, after the Sixty Minute War, human beings have evolved the face of the planet so towns and cities are no longer grounded, becoming Traction Towns, and hunt one another to eat to keep their own town/city afloat Excellent steampunk novel aimed at a YA/teenage audience. This took me longer to read than it should but I blame the fact I went out three nights in a row so I couldn't really sit down and read it. Not drunk anyway. The premise of this novel is very original: a thousand years into the future, after the Sixty Minute War, human beings have evolved the face of the planet so towns and cities are no longer grounded, becoming Traction Towns, and hunt one another to eat to keep their own town/city afloat. Reeve's description of towns being torn apart and swallowed is excellent and very detailed, though quite gruesome in parts. The book is told from various point-of-views, therefore offering the reader a better insight into events occurring in different parts of this new world/hunting ground, and consequently allows Reeve to unfold more story subplots and action sequences. Reeve's writing is superb in its detail especially with its dry sense of humour, putting Reeve, in my opinion anyway, on par with Douglas Adams and Neil Gaiman. The world he has created is so well thought out that Reeve's has even envisioned philosophies, religions, languages and politics which all fit very well together. In fact, not unlike the world we live in today. The only problem I can honestly find is that this is a fairly violent novel, especially for the age group to which it is aimed and therefore may not be suitable for younger readers. However, nothing is overly graphic or gory but Reeve's certainly gets his point across so perhaps something to keep in mind. An excellent novel and a series I will most definitely be finishing. ...more This series had been on my to read list for a while and so I managed to grab my chance while at BristolCon last year to grab a copy and get it signed with an awesome little airship doodle in the front! I confess that I am not a fan of this particular cover, but that is just looks and I do have A Darkling Plain in the beautifully illustrated one - I find this one looks a bit more like a game box! But I suppose it is trying to appeal more to boys? I loved this - I think I would have loved it even mo This series had been on my to read list for a while and so I managed to grab my chance while at BristolCon last year to grab a copy and get it signed with an awesome little airship doodle in the front! I confess that I am not a fan of this particular cover, but that is just looks and I do have A Darkling Plain in the beautifully illustrated one - I find this one looks a bit more like a game box! But I suppose it is trying to appeal more to boys? I loved this - I think I would have loved it even more had I been younger, but despite my grand old age now, it was still a brilliant read. It actually pulled at the heartstrings a fair bit, I was emotionally invested in the characters, and Philip Reeve doesn't shy away from gore, unpleasantness or death - and maybe many YA books are more gritty these days, but then perhaps it was just Philip Reeve's descriptions which made it stand out for me more. The story follows our world in a post-apocalyptic setting. The cities have been put upon gigantic tracks and made mobile, and they spend their time chasing other traction cities down in order to devour them for resources. It starts around a time when the hunting ground of the world is running low of urban prey. Really great ideas - go and read it! ...more From the very first page, when we are told that the city of London has gone hunting, I was completely hooked on the world Reeve created. Mortal Engines is set in a steampunk, post-nuclear world. Cities are on wheels, most of them, and consume each other in a system called Municipal Darwinism. Survival of the fittest city. The problem with that should be immediately obvious: sooner or later there will be no other cities to consume. And that's the central conflict here, how and whether London will From the very first page, when we are told that the city of London has gone hunting, I was completely hooked on the world Reeve created. Mortal Engines is set in a steampunk, post-nuclear world. Cities are on wheels, most of them, and consume each other in a system called Municipal Darwinism. Survival of the fittest city. The problem with that should be immediately obvious: sooner or later there will be no other cities to consume. And that's the central conflict here, how and whether London will continue as a moving city. There's also fantastic viewpoint characters: Tom, who gets knocked off the city and learns to understand it better on the ground, and Kate, who is determined to learn the truth about her father and finds more than she intended. And then there's the supporting characters, sweet and brave Bevin and Hester, who is made of determination. And a villain who ends up being far more than he had seemed. The ending is explosive and keeps going right up to the last sentence. There's hardly time to catch your breath before you realize that it's over, and you need to read the next book ASAP so you can find out what happens. ...more The basic plot is that cities are mechanized and roam in wastelands seeking to devour each other. Tom is an orphan, but has managed to become an apprentice, but gets embroiled in foiling an assassination attempt on his idol, who it turns out has some skeletons in his closet. Tom and the assassin Hester get left behind, and have to get back to the mobile version of London. I found the characters to be pretty inconsistent. especially Tom. Hester and Anna were the best characters. I think the simpl The basic plot is that cities are mechanized and roam in wastelands seeking to devour each other. Tom is an orphan, but has managed to become an apprentice, but gets embroiled in foiling an assassination attempt on his idol, who it turns out has some skeletons in his closet. Tom and the assassin Hester get left behind, and have to get back to the mobile version of London. I found the characters to be pretty inconsistent. especially Tom. Hester and Anna were the best characters. I think the simplistic writing was also a deterrent for me, as well as the genesis of the (view spoiler) [great city-busting weapon, forged from materials discovered and stolen from Hester's mother (hide spoiler) ] . ...more D\u00fcnya kurgusu \u00e7ok g\u00fczel, \u00e7ok yarat\u0131c\u0131 geldi. Hakikaten o d\u00fcnyay\u0131 ke\u015ffetme hissi uyand\u0131r\u0131yor. \u00d6zellikle \u015fehirleri akl\u0131mda \u00fc\u00e7 boyutlu olarak kurmadan edemedim. Ama ayn\u0131 \u015feyleri karakterler i\u00e7in s\u00f6yleyemeyiz. Fazla ola\u011fanlar ve kli\u015felerle dolular. Hikaye de distopya temelli; fazlaca okuyan biri olaraktan bu t\u00fcr\u00fc, \u00e7ok da yenilik getirmedi\u011fini s\u00f6yleyebilirim. The traction city London has been trying to avoid being eaten by bigger and hungrier cities that are in the hunting grounds. But the Mayor has some plans for London that will help it survive for a very long time. Thaddeus Valentine is the Head Historian and he has a daughter named Katherine. One day they are in The Gut when a young assassin strikes and means to kill Thaddeus. A third-class apprentice named Tom jumps in and stops the assassin from killing Thaddeus. Before jumping, Tom sees her fac The traction city London has been trying to avoid being eaten by bigger and hungrier cities that are in the hunting grounds. But the Mayor has some plans for London that will help it survive for a very long time. Thaddeus Valentine is the Head Historian and he has a daughter named Katherine. One day they are in The Gut when a young assassin strikes and means to kill Thaddeus. A third-class apprentice named Tom jumps in and stops the assassin from killing Thaddeus. Before jumping, Tom sees her face; scarred, only one eye and smashed nose. And that was it for Tom; before he knew it, he was falling too. He was pushed. And now he is in the Out-Country. How is he going to get back into London? I became interested in reading this book after reading Fever Crumb, which I had won from a Goodreads giveaway. I loved Fever Crumb, which I know is a prequel to this series, and thought I'd enjoy this as well. I did enjoy it, quite a bit. This book is full of interesting and complex characters. There is much more to many of them than first meets the eye. I liked the story and I'm glad we don't live in a world where cities eat each other. And honestly, I hope that won't ever happen. I like Tom and Hester. I think they are very good character. Both have some things in common, but are still different. I'm not sure what to think of Thaddeus Valentine. Honestly, at first I thought he was just horrible. But after reading the whole book, I'm not really sure what to think of him. Katherine is great though. She is caring and always wants to do the right thing. I really liked this book and eventually I'm going to read the rest of the books in this series. ...more My husband recommended this book when we were dating, and I read it to understand him a little more. I wasn't really expecting much, but I LOVED it! So much that we had a passage read at our wedding, which I wouldn't recommend though because if you haven't read the book, it's slightly confusing!! I loved how our lives are completely misinterpreted by the characters in the book, and how things that are common place to us seem to be stuff of the Gods (like aluminium foil!). The world that Reeve cre My husband recommended this book when we were dating, and I read it to understand him a little more. I wasn't really expecting much, but I LOVED it! So much that we had a passage read at our wedding, which I wouldn't recommend though because if you haven't read the book, it's slightly confusing!! I loved how our lives are completely misinterpreted by the characters in the book, and how things that are common place to us seem to be stuff of the Gods (like aluminium foil!). The world that Reeve created was incredible and completely different to our current world: new mountain ranges for a start! Reeve sucessfully opens up the world and makes it live without being bogged down by a huge amount of description, so the world adds to the story rather than detracting attention from the main characters. I found the characters were interesting, and human, and they were developed really well. Although some have complained that Hester was too angry and horrible, I liked that she wasn't your typical heroine: she was real! Others have complained that Tom was 2 dimentional, but I really liked him: he was quiet, and bookish, and naive. And developed throughout the series, and this book, very well. Overall, one of my favourite books!! ...more Mortal Engines, The futuristic ideas throughout this book are phenomenal. Phillip Reeve throws in the idea of Municipal Darwinism, which is the concept of \"survival of the fittest,\" in which towns eat other towns. As a giant city and a powerful one at that, London; a stronghold; plans on depleting towns that are East. As a plan to do this they have a weapon known as Medusa, which London plans on using to destroy the long standing cities of the East. Stolen from Hester's parents; Medusa is a weapon Mortal Engines, The futuristic ideas throughout this book are phenomenal. Phillip Reeve throws in the idea of Municipal Darwinism, which is the concept of \"survival of the fittest,\" in which towns eat other towns. As a giant city and a powerful one at that, London; a stronghold; plans on depleting towns that are East. As a plan to do this they have a weapon known as Medusa, which London plans on using to destroy the long standing cities of the East. Stolen from Hester's parents; Medusa is a weapon of mass destruction and because of this stolen information we get to meet the two main characters. Thomas Natsworthy and Hester Shaw, the adventure starts with them. As they try to destroy Medusa and falter the plans of London's conquest to the east. The novel's complexity on the character's growth and the plot are mind grabbing. Bringing the reader in constantly. The idea of Municipal Darwinism added to the story and its originality brings the story to its limitless imagination. This book is a definite recommended read. ...more [Short review from memory before my re-read in 2016: Is it bad I don't remember much? There are certain snippets, but overall not a lot. I remember I enjoyed it, but books from my childhood have a habit of disappointed me in my adulthood. It's one I'm hoping I won't hate, it really is.] Reeve , George R.R.Martin ile karakter \u00f6ld\u00fcrmede yar\u0131\u015f\u0131yor. This is a tale of two worlds. Of the past and the future. Of the holders of knowledge and the bearers of progress. Of between appreciating the history and striving to live for the generations to come. Of people after the Sixty-Minute War (symbolic by the writer to the Hundred Years War perhaps, between his Native England and France), each now revert back to savage state even unable to comprehend simple technology Of between moving cities, eating other smaller one to survive; and static cities, sur This is a tale of two worlds. Of the past and the future. Of the holders of knowledge and the bearers of progress. Of between appreciating the history and striving to live for the generations to come. Of people after the Sixty-Minute War (symbolic by the writer to the Hundred Years War perhaps, between his Native England and France), each now revert back to savage state even unable to comprehend simple technology Of between moving cities, eating other smaller one to survive; and static cities, surviving long years of destruction and build civilization by doing the opposite; building. The case for new form of imperialism, in the savage form like a tribe of cannibals preying upon passing, moving merchants back in the medieval age (only in this tale, the predator is the moving one!). This is a tale of orientalism, of the East and West, how false images of others was imposed and believed by generation after generations without self-reflection and critical scrutiny. Of the discovery of nature and truth; of a boy, named Tom and a girl name Katherine, both starting their journey on truth upon their separation by the Great Fall of Tom out of the Traction Cities. Both are filled with curiosity and bravery to found out the truth of their world. Tom having thought he had fallen down to Hell, into the Out-Country found (view spoiler) [a nemesis turned-friend-turned-lover (Hester), a mother (Anna Fang, a fighter against Traction cities) (hide spoiler) ] and life there. He found the truth of the savage life of Traction Cities -where he once believed in- can only live by destroying, killing those who are weak and making slaves of those who aren\u2019t. He found the idea of home, what it meant and try to save them. Katherine meanwhile found out her identity; of who she and her father really is. A brief Kantian ethics against utilitarianism might be suitable here for discussion. (view spoiler) [Her father killed her former work colleague to get into higher office and better life for her daughter, Katherine (hide spoiler) ] not realizing later he himself regret the reasoning he made (during the massacre of almost all of Shaw family members), of getting better/greater good in the future and preventing the Anti-Traction League in getting upper hand, whilst doing a small bad thing (is killing small? is it still not a considered bad? what is his duty to protect London? Classic murderer-at-the door case in Kantian philosophy) in the now. Less he know that the future is a mystery, and (view spoiler) [her daughter herself despise her for that 'sacrifice' while at the end of the day, London city still fall! (hide spoiler) ] Besides, here too arguably, we can say that having been enlightened doesn't necessarily makes you become noble and do good like those naive logic of rational egoism. (view spoiler) [Her father knew all along what he was doing and still do it, whilst her daughter (and Tom on another case) was change by new gained knowledge. (hide spoiler) ] Katherine in her search, found out the state of the cities that was once thought a paradise was not; as small time thief, tax-dodgers and government opposition are labeled as criminals and become slaves in an underground sewage, recycling human excrement for further production, having to work to death. (view spoiler) [Even in death, the living still manage to enslave them, making them into a robotic mercenaries, (hide spoiler) ] working for an authoritarian leader of technical experts under him (Engineers, Merchants, and Navigators), leading into a scientific utopia! (view spoiler) [Imagine dreaming to eat planets and other galaxies once earth was devoured! Talk about Toriko (hide spoiler) ] Overall, a great (well, I haven't read fiction for long) read! ----------------------------- The geographical illustrations (imagination of readers of course!) is something to be enjoyed! I can relate to, although forgive me for the comparison, the scene of some movies. The fight on flying gondola like Treasure Planet ; the halls, library and secret shaft like in Harry Potter; the pirate fight and villages like Pirate of The Caribbean; and the mountain view and dark tunnel like in The Lord of The Ring or The Hobbit (by Peter Jackson). And I heard rumors he going to produce this piece, which if it is true, it is going to be some ride! ...more 1.5 I put off rating this for a bit, mulling it over but, in the end, I just didn't like it. I wish I could rave about it like most of the other reviews but, alas, it's just not to be. It's not without any charm - which is what the little extra half star is for. I liked Anna Fang, for instance, and Pomeroy definitely grew on me, though it would've been nice if maybe (view spoiler) [it seemed like someone spent more than 5 seconds mourning Tom (hide spoiler) ] - but, in a way, that's part of the prob 1.5 I put off rating this for a bit, mulling it over but, in the end, I just didn't like it. I wish I could rave about it like most of the other reviews but, alas, it's just not to be. It's not without any charm - which is what the little extra half star is for. I liked Anna Fang, for instance, and Pomeroy definitely grew on me, though it would've been nice if maybe (view spoiler) [it seemed like someone spent more than 5 seconds mourning Tom (hide spoiler) ] - but, in a way, that's part of the problem - all the interesting characters are secondary and minor, only appearing here and there, and the main characters are all kind of annoying. Tom and Katherine, especially, are annoyingly naive for most of the book, and both come across as closer to 10-12 than the 15+ they are meant to be. Hester, at least, seems closer to actually being a teenager, hardened though she is. Also, I was just never able to fully buy into the whole concept of the traction cities roaming the wilds and eating each other. I guess it's a metaphor for warfare and all, as the cities would destroy smaller cities and take all its resources, but the whole thing just seemed kind of silly to me. It was also unclear, to me, whether the cities were meant to be alive. I mean, I can dig biotech and all, and if the cities were something like, say, Moya from Farscape, I could get behind that and understand more them acting like animals. But while it sort of talked like the cities were alive, when you see the workings of things it seems all tech and no biology, so it's not the cities, really, that are attacking and eating as much as the cities are like giant tanks. Also, when they attack a city they take on the survivors and put them to work. But, surely, this is just going to use more resources and it already seemed pretty full of people. The book does mention that, once-upon-a-time, larger cities would spawn predator suburbs, but since resources are scarce now, that doesn't really happen. Speaking of limited resources - there are an amazing number of places and people that Tom and Hester run into for the Wastelands, or whatever, to be so empty and barren... And, with everyone and everything moving around all the time, how is it that everyone seems to know where everything else is? Like, everyone knows that London is on the move - but how can you even have a system of \"predator cities\" if everyone sort of seems to know about everyone else's movements? So, yeah... Oh - and because I know it's bound to happen: 1) Yes, I know it's a kid's book. No, I don't think that's an excuse. 2) Yes, I'm sure I'm \"over-thinking\" things because gods forfend world building actually make sense. Anyway - I could deal with the world stuff not making a whole lot of sense. I mean, it wouldn't be the first time in a book like this I just sort of shrugged it off and went with it for the sake of the story. But I just wasn't interested in the story. I never connected with any of the characters, except for moments with Hester. And I mostly found the story boring. I mean, it took me, like, 5 days to read a less than 300 pg book. That's unheard of. But I found myself hardcore procrastinating. The thought of picking the book back up just made me sort of groan, and I'd checked goodreads or Facebook again for the umpteenth time instead of reading. To me, that's become a pretty good indication about where a book falls in my rating scale - so this book could get 2, at tops. But, then, the other issue I had was just the earnestness of it. See, I've read Larklight: A Rousing Tale of Dauntless Pluck in the Farthest Reaches of Space by the same author, and I've really enjoyed that series - at least the two I've read. But the tone of the two series couldn't be more different. Both are sort of adventure books, but Larklight is sort of tongue-in-cheek where Mortal Engines is intensely earnest. Not that I was expecting Mortal Engines to be quite the same as Larklight, but I wasn't expecting this bit of GrimDark , and I developed a serious case of Darkness Induced Apathy . It kinda made me think of Boneshaker , actually - some mildly interesting world stuff that doesn't make much sense when examined, but is cool on the surface, but populated with so much crap that, by the end, I just wanted the hurting to stop... (written 8/11/13. Edited for typos 10/26/16) ...more \u201cIt was a dark, blustery afternoon in Spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea.\u201d \u2026And from that opening sentence on, I was hooked. In the distant future, in the aftermath of the Sixty Minute War which put paid to the world as we know it, a system called Municipal Darwinism arose. Evolving out of the need to dodge the volcanoes and earthquakes that rocked the earth following the war, mechanical cities now wheel across the land, pre \u201cIt was a dark, blustery afternoon in Spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea.\u201d \u2026And from that opening sentence on, I was hooked. In the distant future, in the aftermath of the Sixty Minute War which put paid to the world as we know it, a system called Municipal Darwinism arose. Evolving out of the need to dodge the volcanoes and earthquakes that rocked the earth following the war, mechanical cities now wheel across the land, preying on and devouring one another in their fight for survival. Apprentice Tom lives in London, learning the Historian trade and idolising local archaeologist hero and close friend of the Mayor, Thaddeus Valentine. Until he stops an attempt on Valentine\u2019s life and, alongside the would-be assassin, is flung off into the Out-Country and left behind. And so starts a rollicking adventure that I devoured almost as fast as London did small mining towns, as Tom starts to learn that you should never meet your heroes, that the best things in life don\u2019t always come in the prettiest of packages, and that the system he\u2019s grown up in may not be as awesome as he was taught. While this one may be aimed at a slightly (ahem) younger audience than moi, thanks to some great ideas, good world-building, memorable characters (the best of which being the ladies) and a surprising emotional punch come the end, I\u2019m eager to dive into the rest of the series. **Also posted at Cannonball Read 9** ...more", "Title": "Mortal Engines"},
