{"Comments": "This book was chosen for the May/June 2010 group read in the historical fiction group that I moderate here on Goodreads,<---M> and I couldn't wait to read it</---M>, so I started a teensy bit early. *blush* I'd been wanting to read one of <---A>Michelle Moran</---A>'s books for a while, since I hear so much praise for them, and I'd planned on starting with \"Nefertiti\" with a friend, but that kind of fell apart due to other obligations. So I was thrilled when \"<---C>Cleopatra</---C>'s Daughter\" was chosen, as it gave me the perfect ex This book was chosen for the May/June 2010 group read in the historical fiction group that I moderate here on Goodreads, and I couldn't wait to read it, so I started a teensy bit early. *blush* I'd been wanting to read one of Michelle Moran's books for a while, since I hear so much praise for them, and I'd planned on starting with \"Nefertiti\" with a friend, but that kind of fell apart due to other obligations. So I was thrilled when \"<+++>Cleopatra's Daughter</+++>\" was chosen, as it gave me the perfect excuse to shove all of my obligations off to the side for a day and read this. And it literally only took me a day to read it.<---F> I could not put it down</---F>. I've always been fascinated by Ancient Egypt and Rome, so this one was right up my alley. (All of Moran's books at this point are right up my alley, actually!) I was not disappointed. The book starts with a bang with Cleopatra's rule crumbling around her, and follows Selene (Cleopatra's daughter) as she's taken from her home and country to Rome, which is rife with danger, uncertainty, spies, cattiness and political roller-coasters. Selene and her twin brother, Alexander, are guest/prisoners of the royal family, and never know what the next day will bring - an unwanted and unhappy marriage, slavery, death? It's fascinating. I would have gladly read another 400 pages. There was so much going on between these covers that even though it was not action-packed, it felt like it was, and I just had to know what would happen next. This is the kind of book that made me love historical fiction - books that can bring a name and date-range to life, and make me not only intrigued by their life, but care about them, and empathize with them. So much in history is distant and boring that unless you have a real interest and passion for it, we forget to keep it alive. And much of history was so brutal and harsh that we forget that people who lived it were really people, and had hopes and dreams and fears that were probably cut short by the brutality and upheaval. It's easy to distance ourselves from that brutality, so that 30,000 deaths in such and such battle becomes just a number, and not a staggering atrocity. But this book brought these ancient people to life, and I crossed my fingers for them, and mourned with them, and was angry on their behalf even though they've all been dead for 2000 years. I loved Selene's character. I admired her courage to do the right thing even when it could have cost her her life at any time. Her life was one thread away from forfeited as soon as she stepped foot off of Egyptian soil, but she still spoke up for those who could not speak for themselves. And this, in a time when callousness and bloodlust seemed to be an artform, is admirable. I also loved the way that Octavian Caesar's loyal men were humanized, rather than just being expressionless moving statues which do the Caesar's bidding, they were men who were able to think and feel and hope themselves. I also loved the political and societal issues depicted. Octavian's fear of any potential threat, his genius political maneuvering and manipulation, his ruthlessness all gave me chills. Livia's too, and her pure maliciousness made me want to slap her. I couldn't imagine living under the thumb of people like that. But then to counter them, Octavia, his sister, was kind and compassionate and charitable, even when she had cause not to be, and when it was almost pointless given the attitudes of the time. Moran pulls no punches with this book, and shows the harshness of living in Rome at this time. Slaves were everywhere and harshly ruled and even more harshly punished at their owners' and/or corrupt judges' whims. Babies are cast out for being born the wrong sex, or for having a deformity, or for no reason at all other than that they are unwanted and are left to die of starvation or by the elements if not for charitable wet-nurses. It's appalling, but all of this combined to create a Rome that felt real to me. I also liked the subtle nod to homosexuality in the book, and how it's accepted in private, but kept quiet in public. I'm glad that we're at a point now where being gay is socially accepted (by most) and doesn't need to be hidden. Anyway, in short, I loved this book. The only thing that I can think of to complain about is a single misspelling: quite should have been quiet, and that should have been caught by an editor. ;) I will definitely be reading more of Moran's books. If they are half as good as this one it will be well worth it. :) ...more In terms of the recommendation to those who love historical fiction and ancient Egypt, as a voracious reader and someone so interested in history that I've made a career out of it, I've got to say that my response was more of a mixed bag to this book. There were good and bad things to say about this book. I didn't like the blatant name-dropping, especially as it served little to no purpose and seemed to be added in purely for the \"Ooooh, look, there's Ovid! And this is Vercingetorix's daughter!!! In terms of the recommendation to those who love historical fiction and ancient Egypt, as a voracious reader and someone so interested in history that I've made a career out of it, I've got to say that my response was more of a mixed bag to this book. There were good and bad things to say about this book. I didn't like the blatant name-dropping, especially as it served little to no purpose and seemed to be added in purely for the \"Ooooh, look, there's Ovid! And this is Vercingetorix's daughter!!!\" factor. It just seemed unnecessary to drop names when the main characters and plot ought to be able to carry a novel. There were also some implausible moments, such as Octavian taking the children with him out and about in Alexandria, or Octavia befriending them instantly (having the children by another woman of the husband who abandoned you dropped into your care? You'd at least think it'd take a while to bond). Also the twins seem to fit into their new lives and companions in Rome rather quickly, which surprised me given the traumatising experiences they'd been through. It just takes away from a sense that these are real people reacting as real people would. Well-drawn characters react to events around them in a way that makes sense given their personality and experiences, and it shows refinement from an author if they can create characters who seem to react and grow almost naturally. There's a lot of exposition throughout the book. It's all too obvious that it's exposition for the benefit of the reader, and unfortunately it hasn't been done subtly. The information conveyed consists of all the most iconic trivia about the Romans that has filtered into the public consciousness, and the way it's presented is rather clunky and simplistic in a \"oh and by the way did you know...\" kind of way, such as Octavian saying \"And remember, a third of Rome's population is enslaved\". It's not woven into the plot very often, it tends to take the form of one character verbally explaining things to another character. The plot twists can be seen a mile off, and by page 80 I had guessed who the Red Eagle would be and who Kleopatra Selene would end up with (I'm avoiding saying who so as not to give spoilers, but it's become a real trend in historical fiction recently). The inclusion of the fictional Red Eagle plot surprised me because it's such a well worn storyline in so many books before, the classic \"masked fighter of injustice in the big city\" trope, and I wondered if Moran felt like she had to include it out of fear that readers would think the unembellished true story was too \"boring\" or \"dull\". In addition, the scope of the story felt very insular and small scale, and not just because Kleopatra Selene is the first person narrator. The sense of epic scale is missing from this book, which feels strange given that the events and characters were so important historically. Many scenes are blinkered and narrow in scope, and I felt that there were some missed opportunities to convey a grander scale of events - for example, Octavian's first triumph is covered in only two pages and most of that consists of Kleopatra Selene's internal thoughts with a few titbits of description thrown in, and I was a bit disappointed that it didn't really evoke the magnitude of the occasion. I was pleasantly surprised by the author's note at the back of the book, and really appreciated Moran having a frank discussion about some of the changes she made to the history. However, I was also disappointed that there were so very many inaccuracies which are not mentioned in the author's note. Poor Octavian takes a beating on the historical accuracy front - his description and many of his actions in the novel are in fact made up - and I thought he was too vilified. On the positive side, the story built up well to the climax, creating tension and probably the most emotion in the entire novel with a certain tragic incident, and then releasing that tension with the double revelation of the Red Eagle's identity and the identity of Kleopatra Selene's intended husband. Though the writing was rather simplistic, it seemed more forgivable if I approached this as a children's book. I actually think it was a good marketing decision to rate this book as for Young Adults/Adults (her previous two novels were defined only for the Adults group) - I think Moran needs to go further and market it completely at the early teens age group. Viewing it from that perspective, the story comes off as an enjoyable teenaged adventure romp. It's not earth-shattering literature, but it seems really well suited to an enthusiastic young historian, or those times when you just want to kick back and read something fun and unchallenging. 4 out of 10 ...more Wow! I loved this book! '<+++>Cleopatra's Daughter</+++>' is one of the best books I have read for a long time! Cleopatra Selene, her twin brother, Alexander, and their young brother Ptolemy suffer the loss of their parents, Cleopatra and Marc Antony, when Romans invade Egypt. As the children of the King and Queen of Egypt, Selene and her brothers are forcibly taken to Rome, essentially as prizes of the war. The story takes flight after their arrival in Rome and the twins adjust to a vastly different lifes Wow! I loved this book! 'Cleopatra's Daughter' is one of the best books I have read for a long time! Cleopatra Selene, her twin brother, Alexander, and their young brother Ptolemy suffer the loss of their parents, Cleopatra and Marc Antony, when Romans invade Egypt. As the children of the King and Queen of Egypt, Selene and her brothers are forcibly taken to Rome, essentially as prizes of the war. The story takes flight after their arrival in Rome and the twins adjust to a vastly different lifestyle than they knew in Egypt. Octavian is the ruler of Rome and the person responsible for their parents'deaths, but they have no choice to obey and trust him because he is repsonsible for their livelihood. Octavian has the children live with his kind sister and her son, but still their fates are ominously uncertain. When they arrive in Rome, Selene and Alexander are only eleven and not a threat to Octavian, but will they still be safe when they reach adulthood at 15? Each and every character leapt off the page and their vivid personalities were based on historical record. Selene was definitely her mother's daughter, an intelligent, strong girl, not afraid to stand up for herself and what she believes in. Her compassion for the less fortunate showed her soft and caring side. Selene had a passion for drawing and her talent for sketching buildings impressed even Octavian. Selene's peers were more interested in betting on chariot races and shopping than participating in her scholarly and charitable pursuits, but they were definitely supportive of her and more idealistic than the older generation. Selene loves getting attention from Octavian's nephew and probable heir, Marcellus. Marcellus is handsome, young, and carefree, and clearly admires Selene's beauty as well as her morals. Selene fails to notice that Juba, one of Octavian's most trusted guards, admires her as well for her strength and hope along with her humanitarian endeavors. I loved the portrayal of Selene's relationship with Alexander. As twins, they had an incredibly close bond that was strengthened by the loss of their family and home. Sometimes they felt like all they had was each other. They were much more learned than most Romans, due to their mother's guidance, and they would speak to each other in languages that no one else could understand. Moran really captured their deep bond, affection for each other, and even playfulness. The author added the fictional character of the Red Eagle to represent those Romans who fought against slavery. The identity of the Red Eagle is a secret and the mystery surrounding him and his adventures add a lot of excitement to the story. Michelle Moran really brought Selene's world alive. She told an epic story but never lost sight of the everyday details of ancient Rome. I felt like I could see Juba's statues, Selene's scrolls, and Marcellus and Alexander's betting dice. My only complaint about this book is that at 400 pages, it was over too soon! I feel like there is much more of Selene's story to be told, and really hope that Moran has plans for a sequel! Reviewed for: http://inthehammockblog.blogspot.com/ ...more While an interesting take on the children of Cleopatra and Marc Antony, there is very little imagination or even characterization going on here. You don't feel attached to the characters, there is little to no reason to keep reading, and even the plot is a play-by-play account and not a real story. The ending feels more like a sop to keep the reader happy than an ending, and even the more intriguing characters seem flat and uncaring. I enjoyed the background because I like historical fiction, bu While an interesting take on the children of Cleopatra and Marc Antony, there is very little imagination or even characterization going on here. You don't feel attached to the characters, there is little to no reason to keep reading, and even the plot is a play-by-play account and not a real story. The ending feels more like a sop to keep the reader happy than an ending, and even the more intriguing characters seem flat and uncaring. I enjoyed the background because I like historical fiction, but for the most part, it's a shame. There was so much potential with this story, and Moran botched it. ...more I read a lot of Roman material: fiction, history, contemporary letters, etc. So when an author's view of Rome significantly departs from what is known about the period, it yanks me out of the story. My wife and I had recently finished Colleen McCullough's masterful multi-volume series on Rome, which ended with the event at which this book begins. The contrast was jarring. Perhaps it says more about the quality of writing, but I think it says more about the comparative depth of research. McCullou I read a lot of Roman material: fiction, history, contemporary letters, etc. So when an author's view of Rome significantly departs from what is known about the period, it yanks me out of the story. My wife and I had recently finished Colleen McCullough's masterful multi-volume series on Rome, which ended with the event at which this book begins. The contrast was jarring. Perhaps it says more about the quality of writing, but I think it says more about the comparative depth of research. McCullough's bibliography runs to nearly 50 pages of primary sources. Perhaps it's the narrator's voice - a teenage Egyptian princess in Rome is a typical fish out of water, and her upbringing and youth would provide a much smaller lens from which to view the Rome to which she's been forcibly brought. But the author gets enough things wrong - the value of a denarius, the appropriate size of a dowry, the value of daughters to noble Roman males as political assets, injecting 21st-century political issues (same-sex marriage?) into 1st century BCE heads - that I had serious trouble staying in the world Moran created. But it was a Christmas gift, so we persisted. Frustrations with historicity aside, the novel was predictable, and few of the characters felt fully rendered, none of them men. Livia is little more than a snarling harpy. You are left to wonder how Moran's Octavian managed to conquer the Roman world. But no matter. It's safe to say I was not the intended audience. But it's an odd book; not romantic enough to be a romance, insufficient veritas to stand as reliable historical fiction. ...more Semua orang tentu mengetahui Kleopatra, sang ratu Mesir yang terkenal dengan kecantikan dan kelicikannya. Kleopatra VII, yang kisah cintanya dengan Marc Anthony adalah salah satu cerita cinta terbesar pada waktu Sebelum Masehi. Tapi setelah kematian Kleopatra yang menyedihkan, kehidupan Mesir tidak berakhir begitu saja. Masih ada anak-anak Kleopatra dan Marc Anthony, yang terus hidup dan menderita. Setelah kematian Kleopatra dan Marc Anthony, ketiga anak mereka diambil oleh Octavian, kaisar Romaw Semua orang tentu mengetahui Kleopatra, sang ratu Mesir yang terkenal dengan kecantikan dan kelicikannya. Kleopatra VII, yang kisah cintanya dengan Marc Anthony adalah salah satu cerita cinta terbesar pada waktu Sebelum Masehi. Tapi setelah kematian Kleopatra yang menyedihkan, kehidupan Mesir tidak berakhir begitu saja. Masih ada anak-anak Kleopatra dan Marc Anthony, yang terus hidup dan menderita. Setelah kematian Kleopatra dan Marc Anthony, ketiga anak mereka diambil oleh Octavian, kaisar Romawi yang berhasil menduduki Mesir. Si kembar berusia 12 tahun Kleopatra Selene dan Alexander Helios, serta adik mereka Ptolemy yang masih berusia 3 tahun, sengaja dibiarkan hidup untuk dibawa ke Roma dalam Perayaan Kemenangan Octavian. Octavian sengaja membiarkan mereka hidup karena itu akan membuatnya terlihat bermurah hati, dan agar mereka dapat berguna dalam perkawinan politik yang akan disusun olehnya. Selene dan Alexander kehilangan hampir segalanya; harta mereka, posisi mereka sebagai Pangeran dan Putri, rumah mereka di Mesir, orang tua mereka, bahkan adik mereka Ptolemy yang sakit keras dan akhirnya mati. Mereka dipaksa menyesuaikan diri dan mengakui diri mereka sebagai warga Roma. Memakai pakaian ala orang Roma, pulasan seperti warga Roma, dan menilai sesuatu dari sudut pandang Roma. Selene yang cantik dan cerdas, meskipun keras kepala, menemukan kebebasannya dalam melukis arsitektur gedung-gedung. Kakak kembarnya Alexander yang tampan dan ramah lebih memilih pacuan kuda dan bersosialisasi dengan anak-anak Roma lainnya. Mereka melindungi satu sama lain, dan bersumpah akan kembali ke Mesir bersama-sama suatu hari nanti. Di umur yang masih belia, para anak-anak bangsawan Roma sudah mengerti bahaya dan kewajiban mereka pada Roma. Tindakan-tindakan dan ucapan mereka bagaikan anak berumur 15 atau 16 tahun di masa kini. Sekali, saudara tiri Selene dan Alexander yang masih berumur 10 tahun datang dan memperingatkan mereka agar berguna untuk Octavian, karena itulah satu-satunya cara untuk bertahan hidup di Roma. Kemiskinan dan bayi-bayi yang ditelantarkan bukanlah hal yang aneh di Roma. Perkawinan bagi wanita adalah kewajiban, dan ayah serta saudara lelaki merekalah yang memutuskan perkawinan itu. Budak-budak adalah pihak yang tak bisa menuntut. Kaum bangsawan dan senat adalah pihak yang akan selalu memerintah Roma. Merskipun tidak seratus persen sama dengan sejarah, Cleopatra\u2019s Daughter berhasil menyuguhkan kisah yang menawan dengan setting Sebelum Masehi. Istilah-istilah Latin seperti chitos dan domina mewarnai cerita, dan kebiasaan-kebiasaan orang Romawi digambarkan dengan begitu baik. Setiap tokoh dalam cerita memegang peran yang penting, terutama tokoh Red Eagle yang digambarkan sebagai tokoh misterius yang ingin menghentikan perbudakan di Roma. Aku terutama mengagumi tokoh Selene yang pandai, tegar, dan tak pernah berhenti menyerah dalam memerangi ketidakadilan. Cleopatra\u2019s Daughter membuatku menangis dan tertawa. Efek yang ditimbulkannya begitu dahsyat, dan aku yakin seperti setiap buku yang luar biasa, buku ini akan tetap mempengaruhiku dalam waktu yang lama. Aku bahkan merasa sedih ketika aku mencapai halaman terakhir, dan membaca halaman terakhir kisah ini. ...more Where to start? When I first started this a month ago I was really disappointed in it. In fact, so disappointed that I put it down for 2-3 weeks. I ordered it because I was in the mood for a historical novel that would teach me things through a fantastic story. A story like one by Follett, Gable, Gordon. Those authors make me feel like I just had the best history lecture ever, without it ever feeling like one. Cleopatra's daughter felt like I was reading a middle grade historical novel. Imagine Where to start? When I first started this a month ago I was really disappointed in it. In fact, so disappointed that I put it down for 2-3 weeks. I ordered it because I was in the mood for a historical novel that would teach me things through a fantastic story. A story like one by Follett, Gable, Gordon. Those authors make me feel like I just had the best history lecture ever, without it ever feeling like one. Cleopatra's daughter felt like I was reading a middle grade historical novel. Imagine Percy Jackson turned into Cleopatra's daughter. I would have not ordered it had I known that, but all you ever get to read about is how it is an 'intelligent historical novel' and how the author has been working at archaeological sites around the world. The characters didn't have any depth, they were naive and extremely young (especially the main character, a 12-year-old girl and her spoiled friend), important characters, like the emperor of Rome, acted unrealistically, the story line was flat and rushed. The most exciting thing happened within the last 50p and it happened completely out of nowhere. Just..ugh, irritating. As far as historical facts and input goes, this really didn't teach me anything. I studied Latin for over 6 years and am familiar with Roman life during that time. It truly was uncomfortable to see how the author build in facts and dropped names in the most obvious way. 'Here is a fact/historical person for you!!!'- was how it felt. The only people I'd recommend this to would be girls around the age 12-15 who have never read a historical novel before and can relate to silly girl crushes and naive main characters. It probably is a great first step into the genre for a young teen! I remember reading similar things before heading into 'grown-up' historical fiction. So, all in all, somewhere between 1-2 stars for me. ...more so I gave up after 120 pages. The perspective was from a 10 year old in 27BC who sounds like a 25 year old in 2010 AD. very Dawson's Creek, but not is a good way. I went into CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER with almost no idea at all about her children by Marc Antony. This isn't to say I had no idea who they were, but I didn't know their fates beyond that they didn't die with Cleopatra. Moran is careful to note any historical changes she made in the Historical Notes section, although she stayed as true to what is factually known as possible, in as much as possible. There are smaller details that are interesting and noteworthy\u2014such as Livia's (Octavian's obsequious, s I went into CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER with almost no idea at all about her children by Marc Antony. This isn't to say I had no idea who they were, but I didn't know their fates beyond that they didn't die with Cleopatra. Moran is careful to note any historical changes she made in the Historical Notes section, although she stayed as true to what is factually known as possible, in as much as possible. There are smaller details that are interesting and noteworthy\u2014such as Livia's (Octavian's obsequious, spiteful wife) purposeful misspelling of Kleopatra, substituting the 'C' for the 'K' or the topical references to Spartacus, not as a historical mark piece, but as a rebellious slave that cost hundreds of thousands of lives. Or Octavian's careful cruelty (challenging a father to duel his son to the death) and fake humbleness (visitors only see the crude wood benches when visiting, not the luxurious silver-gilted tables and couches his friends dine at). The key is in the details, after all. We follow Kleopatra Selene and her twin brother, Helios Alexander (Marc Anthony's 'Sun and Moon'), from the age of 11 years old (in 30 B.C.), all the way to 25 B.C. when they are 15 years old. We start with Octavian storming Kleopatra the VII's palace and taking the children captive for his 'Triumph' in Rome, and end things with Selene finally leaving Rome. Selene is depicted as being willful, clinging to a past that can never be again and searching for a way to keep herself alive in a kingdom where its ruler will kill a trusted friend's son just because he speaks rashly. I felt pity for Selene, for the troubles she had to endure and rise above, but some of that she brought on herself by being stubborn. Her brother, in contrast, tries to fall into line as quickly as possible. He is the more practical one, but also tends to make foolish choices to 'impress' others. The cast of characters surrounding Selene are all, with the exception of one, true historical personages she met and interacted with. Most interesting to me was Gallia (a Gallic Princess enslaved three decades before by Julius Caesar after his conquering of Gaul) and Octavia, Octavian's sister. Octavia was at times the most caring, compassionate person Selene had ever met, but she was Roman to her core\u2014employing slaves, devoted to her brother's politics (if not his practices, and a worshiper of the Roman Gods. This is a wonderful, remarkable book that historical fiction lovers will be immensely pleased with. ...more I have to say that Michelle Moran is a master story teller and if it's possible her third book is even better than the previous two. This book swept me into a world I had never imagined, it is filled with tragedy and yet has an ending that will take your breath away. Selene and Alexander (twins) are the last remaining children of Marc Anthony and Cleopatra who die by suicide when Egypt is conquered by Caesar. Selene and Alexander are taken to Rome to be raised by Octavia, Caesar's sister. While I have to say that Michelle Moran is a master story teller and if it's possible her third book is even better than the previous two. This book swept me into a world I had never imagined, it is filled with tragedy and yet has an ending that will take your breath away. Selene and Alexander (twins) are the last remaining children of Marc Anthony and Cleopatra who die by suicide when Egypt is conquered by Caesar. Selene and Alexander are taken to Rome to be raised by Octavia, Caesar's sister. While Alexander is able to find enjoyment in his new life, Selena lives with much fear for their future. However, through Octavia's care and generosity she is trained as an architect, an unheard of privilege for a woman in Rome. This gives Selene hope for the future. What moved me most about this book is the attention to the details of the setting, yet at no time was I bored, if anything I was captivated. Michelle describes the events of everyday life for Romans and the slaves in a way that makes you realise what fear many of these people lived with especially women. It is a good reminder of how lucky we are to be living in this time in history. This isn't just a story about the ruling family of Rome, it describes in detail what it's like to live as a citizen, slave or Senator. There are no words that I can use to do this book justice, I can only say that if you like historical novels then this is a must read. It is a fantastic book! ...more I loved this book! As with her previous books, Moran has a knack for bringing the ancient world alive. Following the defeat and death of her parents, Cleopatra Selene (along with her two brothers) are taken to Rome by Octavian where they will be raised by his sister Octavia (the wife Marc Antony left for Cleopatra - the woman must have been a saint). The book covers about a 3 year period as Selene grows up under the watchful eye of Octavia and learns about life and love. If you don't know much a I loved this book! As with her previous books, Moran has a knack for bringing the ancient world alive. Following the defeat and death of her parents, Cleopatra Selene (along with her two brothers) are taken to Rome by Octavian where they will be raised by his sister Octavia (the wife Marc Antony left for Cleopatra - the woman must have been a saint). The book covers about a 3 year period as Selene grows up under the watchful eye of Octavia and learns about life and love. If you don't know much about her, don't Google her or you'll ruin the end of the story! ...more This book just blew me away! I'm not really into historical fiction but this book was soo good to the point I got to the last 275 pgs and just couldn't put it down until I finished. The author did a phenomenal job. A must read! Que dire de ce livre... Si ce n'est qu'il est absolument g\u00e9nial? Je n'avais jamais lu de livre sur l'Egypte ancienne, et \u00e7a a \u00e9t\u00e9 une d\u00e9couverte totale. Cleopatra Selene, et son jumeau, Alexander Helios, sont amen\u00e9s \u00e0 Rome comme prix de guerre apr\u00e8s la mort de leurs parents, Marc Anthony et Cleopatra. La, ils seront \u00e9lev\u00e9s par la s\u0153ur d'Octavian, Octavia, et sont amen\u00e9s \u00e0 d\u00e9couvrir le monde romain, dans une des cours les plus fascinantes du monde. Ce livre m'a accroch\u00e9e d\u00e8s les premi\u00e8res pages: Que dire de ce livre... Si ce n'est qu'il est absolument g\u00e9nial? Je n'avais jamais lu de livre sur l'Egypte ancienne, et \u00e7a a \u00e9t\u00e9 une d\u00e9couverte totale. Cleopatra Selene, et son jumeau, Alexander Helios, sont amen\u00e9s \u00e0 Rome comme prix de guerre apr\u00e8s la mort de leurs parents, Marc Anthony et Cleopatra. La, ils seront \u00e9lev\u00e9s par la s\u0153ur d'Octavian, Octavia, et sont amen\u00e9s \u00e0 d\u00e9couvrir le monde romain, dans une des cours les plus fascinantes du monde. Ce livre m'a accroch\u00e9e d\u00e8s les premi\u00e8res pages: par les personnages, l'intrigue, la reconstruction de l'\u00e9poque, et l'\u00e9criture. C'est un des b\u00e9n\u00e9fices de lire dans la langue originale: on ne perd rien \u00e0 cause d'un traduction, et on peut lire le roman comme l'auteur l'a \u00e9crit. Bien qu'une \u0153uvre de fiction, ce livre s'inspire d'une r\u00e9alit\u00e9 et de personnages historiques. Le portrait de Selene \u00e9tait magnifiquement r\u00e9alis\u00e9: on retrouvait la fille de sa m\u00e8re, sans pour autant qu'\u00eatre la fille de sa m\u00e8re soit ce qui la d\u00e9finisse. C'\u00e9tait un personnage ayant une vrai profondeur, caract\u00e9ris\u00e9e psychologiquement et avec une vrai r\u00e9flexion, et pas simplement une figure ballot\u00e9e par les \u00e9v\u00e8nements. Ses relations avec les autres personnages, par exemple, en particulier avec son fr\u00e8re et Octavian: la complexit\u00e9 et la nature de leur relation \u00e9taient vraiment creus\u00e9es et exploit\u00e9es au maximum, ce qui rendait son personnage parfaitement cr\u00e9dible et v\u00e9ritable. De m\u00eame, les personnages secondaires \u00e9taient \u00e9galement bien compos\u00e9s, et cr\u00e9dibles de la m\u00eame fa\u00e7on, surtout pour les personnages de Livia et de Ga\u00efa. Bien qu'ils n'apparaissent pas excessivement dans le livre, ils sont toujours pr\u00e9sents en arri\u00e8re plan, et servent beaucoup \u00e0 l'histoire. Une bonne caract\u00e9risation \u00e9tait donc essentielle ici, et Michelle Moran l'a r\u00e9ussie avec succ\u00e8s. Le portrait de cette \u00e9poque du monde romain \u00e9tait \u00e9galement tr\u00e8s bien r\u00e9alis\u00e9: non seulement la g\u00e9ographie et l'apparence de Rome et de L\u2019Italie \u00e0 cette \u00e9poque, mais aussi les habitudes et les vies des habitants, ce qui \u00e9tait \u00e9galement un tr\u00e8s bon moyen de faire contraster la fa\u00e7on dont vivait Selene et Alexander avant de venir \u00e0 Rome avec ce qu'il d\u00e9couvre en venant y habiter. Les b\u00e2timents, les courses de char, les jeux du cirque... Selene est elle passionn\u00e9e par le dessin et l'architecture, et en vient \u00e0 travailler avec l'architecte Vitruvius, ce qui la d\u00e9marque encore plus de ceux habitants avec elle. C'est une jeune femme passionn\u00e9e, forte, et capable de se d\u00e9fendre. Elle est une des plus appliqu\u00e9e dans sa scolarit\u00e9, mais tient \u00e9galement \u00e0 ceux qu'elle aime et n'est pas \u00e9go\u00efste. Sans pour autant avoir l'air d'un personnage trop id\u00e9alis\u00e9, c'en est un cr\u00e9dible et appr\u00e9ciable. Un autre bon point pour ce livre: le tr\u00e8s bon m\u00e9lange de r\u00e9alit\u00e9 et de fiction. Malgr\u00e9 le fait que les histoires racont\u00e9es dans le livre ne soit que fiction, elle se m\u00ealent tr\u00e8s bien avec les vrai faits historiques, et forment un tr\u00e8s bon ensemble: tout \u00e9tait dit de fa\u00e7on tellement pr\u00e9cise que je n'avais aucun mal \u00e0 me le repr\u00e9senter dans le contexte de la Rome Ancienne, sans pour autant que \u00e7a ne jure. Les relations 'amoureuses' de Selene ne prenaient pas non plus trop de place: elle est attir\u00e9e par Marcellus, neveux de l'empereur, qui lui est d\u00e9j\u00e0 fianc\u00e9, mais ne remarque pas qu'elle a attir\u00e9 l'oeil de Juba, garde le plus proche d'Octavian et prince de Numidie. Cette histoire \u00e9tait tr\u00e8s bien construite et int\u00e9gr\u00e9e \u00e0 la trame g\u00e9n\u00e9rale, ne paraissant pas trop lourde ni trop peu int\u00e9gr\u00e9e. Michelle Moran inclut \u00e9galement dans ce livre un personnage fictif, l'Aigle Rouge, qui lui repr\u00e9sente un combat bien r\u00e9el: la situation des esclaves \u00e0 l'\u00e9poque. Ce personnage s'inscrivait parfaitement bien dans le r\u00e9cit, et permettait ainsi de le rendre plus vivant et du lui donner encore plus d'authenticit\u00e9. J'ai \u00e9t\u00e9 d\u00e9\u00e7ue quand se livre s'est termin\u00e9, tant j'aurais voulu pouvoir en lire plus. Il est magnifiquement \u00e9crit, avec des personnages solides et une intrigue plausible, intrigante et est ainsi un livre superbe. J'ai ador\u00e9 le lire, et il m'a donn\u00e9 le go\u00fbt de lire plus de livre sur cette \u00e9poque. ...more Many of us know the story of Cleopatra, the beautiful and famed Egyptian queen who wedded Julius Caesar and Marc Anthony and who killed herself after Octavian conquered Egypt. But how many know what happened to her children? Cleopatra's Daughter (ironic, really, that the story persists in snobbishly spelling her name Kleopatra when the title spells it with a C) tells the story of Kleopatra Selene, Cleopatra's daughter who was brought to Rome in chains after her parents' defeat. The story follows Many of us know the story of Cleopatra, the beautiful and famed Egyptian queen who wedded Julius Caesar and Marc Anthony and who killed herself after Octavian conquered Egypt. But how many know what happened to her children? Cleopatra's Daughter (ironic, really, that the story persists in snobbishly spelling her name Kleopatra when the title spells it with a C) tells the story of Kleopatra Selene, Cleopatra's daughter who was brought to Rome in chains after her parents' defeat. The story follows her transition from girl to young woman as she lives in Rome and interacts with historical characters ranging from Tiberius to Julia to Ovid. I enjoyed many aspects of Cleopatra's Daughter. Michelle Moran is a good writer and she does a great job fleshing out historical characters and events. It really brought history to life. The story flows well and really is interesting. The historical setting and the basically unknown personality of Selene alone provides a setting for a fascinating book. The mystery thrown in kept the plot going as well. It really was a decent, fun, historical read. However, it never got above 3 stars in my mind. I \"liked\" it, but only just. Truthfully, I didn't care much for the main character, Selene. She had very few redeeming qualities. She was snobbish, jealous, conniving, and, frankly, boring. She is perfect at everything. Selene is beautiful, excels at school and is so excellent at drawing that a famous architect basically makes her his star apprentice. She whines about how unfair and difficult her life is (*gasp*, Octavian will choose a husband for her! The man could be old!) when in fact it only reflected the reality of every Roman girl. She could easily have been sold as a slave, or killed! The farther I got in the book, the harder it was to sympathize with her. What I disliked most about Selene was her crush on Marcellus. Talk about angst overload! On the one hand, she is supposed to be this intelligent, shrewd woman. On the other hand, she continues to pine after this dopey guy for years just because he has a handsome face? Ugh. (view spoiler) [ I really did like her romance with Juba, in theory. It was one of the more redeeming plot elements. However, it was SO RUSHED at the end. Moran basically bashes you over the head with his affection for Selene but again this apparently intelligent woman remains clueless. After years of loving one guy, she suddenly turns all her affection on Juba. It felt wrong. The romance needed more buildup from her side. (hide spoiler) ] Selene also throws out her sense and intelligence when it comes to the mystery of the Red Eagle. It is OBVIOUS who the Red Eagle is, but she continues to stumble about, mentally accusing the same two people. The Red Eagle plot line was stretched out far too long. Once it became obvious who the Red Eagle was, the mystery ceased to be, and instead there were simply endless paragraphs of Selene and the other characters wondering who it was. While the Red Eagle mystery helped pull the plot from utter dullness, it wasn't quite enough to create suspense. Perhaps it wasn't just the Red Eagle mystery, the book itself was too long. Moran spends a lot of time talking about the social wrongs of Rome, particularly the way unwanted infants were treated. However, while it adds to Selene's frustration with Rome, it doesn't actually add to an overall plot. Julia's friend's baby and its subsequent abandonment might have added pathos to the story, but to be honest, doesn't seem to have a role. Overall, I would say my biggest frustration with this book (besides my dislike for Selene) was its loose plot. Is it a romance? A mystery? A slice of life? None of elements are developed well enough to make this book a tight, cohesive story. It was a good story, an enjoyable one, but not something that fully satisfied me. The frustrating thing is, it could have been! While I wouldn't dissuade anyone from reading Cleopatra's Daughter , I also wouldn't go out of my way to recommend it either. ...more 4 stars You probably know who Kleopatra(apparently, it wasn't really spelled with a C) was.You might also know about her relationships with Marc Anthony and Caesar. What you probably don't know is what happens after Kleopatra, with her children. As the book's title says, it deals with those who come after, her children, Alexander and Selene. Thebes, the city of Living... Actually, it's Alexandria, but this was The Mummy reference(an internal joke). Anyway, the book begins in Alexandria, 31 BC, with 4 stars You probably know who Kleopatra(apparently, it wasn't really spelled with a C) was.You might also know about her relationships with Marc Anthony and Caesar. What you probably don't know is what happens after Kleopatra, with her children. As the book's title says, it deals with those who come after, her children, Alexander and Selene. Thebes, the city of Living... Actually, it's Alexandria, but this was The Mummy reference(an internal joke). Anyway, the book begins in Alexandria, 31 BC, with the Roman attack and the death of Kleopatra and Marc Anthony. Selene and Alexander, who are only eleven, have seen their parents die and are now forced to leave their homeland. All this was taken away from them by Octavian, the current leader of Rome. And that is where they're heading, Rome.... When in Rome... Selene and Alexander arrive in Rome and are paraded through the streets. Eventually they learn they will be kept alive and become citizens of Rome. They are staying at Octavia's(Octavian's sister, obviously) home. There they meet all the characters that are important in this book... Octavia, kind and charitable Tiberius, kind of a jerk Juba, the loyal and mysterious general Julia, Octavian's daughter, shallow and pretty, Marcellus, handsome and charismatic boy Livia, Octavian's cruel mother And many others... ...Do as the Romans do Pretty soon, Selene and Alexander are absorbed into the Roman life. They are always aware of their heritage, but they make friends, laugh, go to school. We follow their life for several years. Selene starts her apprenticeship, she is becoming an architect. We see, through Selene's eyes: the society, the culture, the cruelties, the beautiful things... I had to remind myself often, throughout the book, that they are only 11, 12, etc. They act much older and more serious. They are already discussing and witnessing war, slavery, politics, imminent marriage... I theoretically know everything started much sooner then, but it was hard to accept it here, when I constantly got the impression they were way over 18. The politic of the time was very present here. The Senate, the wars, the notion of slavery and the problems it caused, political marriages...One extra detail is the existence of the Red Eagle, a rebel who fought against slavery. I have to admit I guessed who he was pretty much from the start, it wasn't much of a mystery. It's better to light a candle, than curse the darkness In the end, I thought this was a principle these characters lived by and i admired them for it. Yes, they regretted what has been lost and aspired toward reclaiming it, but they really gave their all and dealt with the tragedies, of which there were many. I was kind of surprised by how much I liked this novel. This is the first book with the Egypt theme that I've read(not counting History books and myths) and I'm definitely not disappointed. Only two things bothered me. One was the obviousness of the Red Eagle thing. And the other is the ending. I think the matter of Selene's wedding, Alexander's situation and the issue of Juba were all too rushed. Juba wasn't such a dominating character and all of the sudden he's so important. Really? Tell me more about it. And Selene's change of heart was too sudden, too. It felt unrealistic, after all that's happened. ...more Because I have a short reading attention span, reading Cleopatra: A Life reminded me that I had this book on my mental to-read list. And today I decided to take a detour into reading Cleopatra's Daughter before resuming that one. I wasn't super impressed with Nefertiti ; in presentation, it struck me as a warmed over The Other Boleyn Girl... this time in Egypt! (And with a more interesting main character, to be fair.) Still, I have been curious about Cleopatra Selene for some time now and histori Because I have a short reading attention span, reading Cleopatra: A Life reminded me that I had this book on my mental to-read list. And today I decided to take a detour into reading Cleopatra's Daughter before resuming that one. I wasn't super impressed with Nefertiti ; in presentation, it struck me as a warmed over The Other Boleyn Girl... this time in Egypt! (And with a more interesting main character, to be fair.) Still, I have been curious about Cleopatra Selene for some time now and historical fiction is like my literary comfort food. tl;dr: I was totally destined to read this someday and, hurray!, this book proved to be well worth my while. I will say that I was frustrated in some points; some of the character are tiresome caricatures and boring tropes, sticking out like sore thumbs among the more well-developed ones. Likewise, Moran's writing style is a puzzle to me, wherein stronger emotions occasionally fall flat. Nothing comes across as maudlin, but she had an unenviable task considering the sheer number of tragedies in Selene's life. Also, and this is probably petty, but I rather wish this book had been a duology. I really wanted to read about Selene's life after the time span covered in this book, because it's some pretty fascinating stuff. As it stands, the ending feels a bit abrupt, and I think a chapter or two more wouldn't have hurt. Still, Cleopatra's Daughter is compulsively readable and ridiculously entertaining. Prickly, conscientious Selene is an appealing heroine, and a number of the side characters are equally interesting. Julia in particular steals the show, and I was so glad that the author made her and Selene have a somewhat complicated relationship. (Actually, and this might have been because I was just reading this books, I was slightly reminded of Gemma and Felicty from A Great and Terrible Beauty . This is a good thing!) Moran is also pretty decent about sticking to historical fact. She does invent a slave uprising out of whole cloth, but this didn't bother me. It fit well into the climate of the day, and it didn't come across as the author going \"well I think THIS should have happened instead!\" Furthermore, Cleopatra's Daughter does a pretty damn decent job of developing the character's personalities, rather than merely going from point A to B in history. This is more like a 4.5. Pretty much a perfect rainy day read! ...more This book was fascinating. The book, while a work of fiction, is based on real people in history. While I was somewhat familiar with the actual historical figures, my knowledge is limited to college courses. The book is a semi-fictional account of Cleopatra's children with Marc Antony- twins Alexander and Cleopatra Selene. Selene and Alexander are taken to Rome against their will after Octavian, the ruler of Rome, defeats their parents, the rulers of Egypt. The story begins when Selene and Alexa This book was fascinating. The book, while a work of fiction, is based on real people in history. While I was somewhat familiar with the actual historical figures, my knowledge is limited to college courses. The book is a semi-fictional account of Cleopatra's children with Marc Antony- twins Alexander and Cleopatra Selene. Selene and Alexander are taken to Rome against their will after Octavian, the ruler of Rome, defeats their parents, the rulers of Egypt. The story begins when Selene and Alexander must learn how to adjust to a different way of life in Rome. Selene, a very compassionate girl, has the harder time adjusting. Even though at 15, Romans are considered an \"adult\", it is clear that Selene (a very young 11 at the start of the book) wants to think with her head but is often lead by her heart. The story does not have a ton of action, or even romance. It is almost like a diary of a girl growing up and how numerous heartbreaking events in her life, she matures into a woman. One warning- you might need a few Kleenex tissues at the end! ...more I sort of waffled between 4 or 5 stars on this book. It's really well written and engrossing in my opinion. It's sometimes shelved as YA, and while the main characters start around 12 and age to 15 in the book I wouldn't say that it's meant for a YA audience. The narrator of the story has a mature voice and the subject matter is more adult at times. I think my main problem is the romantic element sort of threw me. I read this without doing any research into the history of the characters and was I sort of waffled between 4 or 5 stars on this book. It's really well written and engrossing in my opinion. It's sometimes shelved as YA, and while the main characters start around 12 and age to 15 in the book I wouldn't say that it's meant for a YA audience. The narrator of the story has a mature voice and the subject matter is more adult at times. I think my main problem is the romantic element sort of threw me. I read this without doing any research into the history of the characters and was completely surprised how things ended up. But in the end the story was really great and I enjoyed it a lot. ...more I was surprised how much I enjoyed this novel. Moran's attention to historical detail was absolutely top-notch. It's one of the best historical fiction books I think I've encountered in a long time - great balance of history and entertainment. There was one plot element that really bugged me -- something not historically accurate, something included simply to move the plot along -- that I thought was unnecessary and detracted from the overall high quality of the book, but other than that I loved I was surprised how much I enjoyed this novel. Moran's attention to historical detail was absolutely top-notch. It's one of the best historical fiction books I think I've encountered in a long time - great balance of history and entertainment. There was one plot element that really bugged me -- something not historically accurate, something included simply to move the plot along -- that I thought was unnecessary and detracted from the overall high quality of the book, but other than that I loved it. ...more This is a beautiful rendition of the life of Cleopatra Selene, the last descendant of the Ptolemy Empire. It follows the journey of Selene and her twin, Alexander, after losing their parents and later their little brother, into Rome, what they understand to be an enemy territory. A story filled with loss and alienation as well as finding compassion and understanding from the most unexpected sources. What a waste of timber! The plot in this \"novel\" is paper-thin and the dialogue is perfectly puerile. I am astounded that others have given this punishing volume fine ratings. The breadth of this subject would have been better left to more finely chiseled authors. Originally posted on Creative Madness Mama. The marriage of Marc Antony and Cleopatra is one of the greatest love stories of all time, a tale of unbridled passion with earth-shaking political consequences. Feared and hunted by the powers in Rome, the lovers choose to die by their own hands as the triumphant armies of Antony\u2019s revengeful rival, Octavian, sweep into Egypt. Their three orphaned children are taken in chains to Rome; only two\u2013 the ten-year-old twins Selene and Alexander\u2013survive the jo Originally posted on Creative Madness Mama. The marriage of Marc Antony and Cleopatra is one of the greatest love stories of all time, a tale of unbridled passion with earth-shaking political consequences. Feared and hunted by the powers in Rome, the lovers choose to die by their own hands as the triumphant armies of Antony\u2019s revengeful rival, Octavian, sweep into Egypt. Their three orphaned children are taken in chains to Rome; only two\u2013 the ten-year-old twins Selene and Alexander\u2013survive the journey. Delivered to the household of Octavian\u2019s sister, the siblings cling to each other and to the hope that they will return one day to their rightful place on the throne of Egypt. As they come of age, they are buffeted by the personal ambitions of Octavian\u2019s family and court, by the ever-present threat of slave rebellion, and by the longings and desires deep within their own hearts. The fateful tale of Selene and Alexander is brought brilliantly to life in Cleopatra\u2019s Daughter. Recounted in Selene\u2019s youthful and engaging voice, it introduces a compelling cast of historical characters: Octavia, the emperor Octavian\u2019s kind and compassionate sister, abandoned by Marc Antony for Cleopatra; Livia, Octavian's bitter and jealous wife; Marcellus, Octavian\u2019s handsome, flirtatious nephew and heir apparent; Tiberius, Livia\u2019s sardonic son and Marcellus\u2019s great rival for power; and Juba, Octavian\u2019s watchful aide, whose honored position at court has far-reaching effects on the lives of the young Egyptian royals. Selene\u2019s narrative is animated by the concerns of a young girl in any time and place\u2013the possibility of finding love, the pull of friendship and family, and the pursuit of her unique interests and talents. While coping with the loss of both her family and her ancestral kingdom, Selene must find a path around the dangers of a foreign land. Her accounts of life in Rome are filled with historical details that vividly capture both the glories and horrors of the times. She dines with the empire\u2019s most illustrious poets and politicians, witnesses the creation of the Pantheon, and navigates the colorful, crowded marketplaces of the city where Roman-style justice is meted out with merciless authority. Based on meticulous research, Cleopatra\u2019s Daughter is a fascinating portrait of imperial Rome and of the people and events of this glorious and most tumultuous period in human history. Emerging from the shadows of the past, Selene, a young woman of irresistible charm and preternatural intelligence, will capture your heart. What does it say when you can finish reading a book in three days from receiving it with a five week old baby causing a hiatus every two to four hours for food, changes, or just plain attention. Well... I would say that means it is a really good book! Michelle Moran does not disappoint with her third novel, and I am excited for the four. She is one of those authors who writes a good book and as a reader you assume that was it, but each next novel is full of such entertainment that you are excited and cannot decide if it was better than the last. Through the words of these pages, a reader gets to travel from Egypt to Rome and become immersed in the lives of historical figures in a way intangible before. The characters and people are brought to life on the pages and their emotions and causes are strongly felt as if a reader was a participant in their day to day lives. This is a general market novel that I thoroughly enjoyed and would easily say it could be meant for any audience, young adult or adult. The only caution with a young adult I would say is for maturity. Be forewarned of the historically accurate references to the indulgences that the Romans participated in that may be distasteful. Each page brings to light the good and the bad of history and makes me want to delve a bit deeper and just go get a textbook and read. (Yet this is so much more entertaining!) My favorite part is basically a Roman version of a Robin Hood wanting to bring out the very best. With issues of slavery, indiscretion, betrayal, kidnapping, murder, suicide, illness, birth, adventure, travel, romance, secrets, true love, and long lasting truth every page keeps a reader on their toes. I highly recommend this and every other novel by author Michelle Moran. View all my reviews >> . Also see my review of Nefertiti and The Heretic Queen . Q&A with Michelle Moran (2009) Click here to view a book trail for Cleopatra's Daughter and more. CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER: a novel The death of Cleopatra was only the beginning... ON SALE 9/15/09 Synopsis Reviews Read an Excerpt Go Behind the Story -- meet the characters! Cleopatra's Daughter Q&A -- what's fact vs. fiction! Random House, Crown Publishers # ISBN-10: 0307409120 # ISBN-13: 978-0307409126 Hardcover, 430 pages Visit MichelleMoran.com Check out Michelle's blog at michellemoran.blogspot.com I just love that book cover!! This review was originally posted on Creative Madness Mama. ...more 3.5 Michelle Moran specializes in writing historical fiction that highlights woman who are strong and overcome great difficulties. Her earlier books focused on some important women from ancient Egypt, but this one brings us to the transition from power being centered in Egypt to it being centered in Rome. Cleopatra and Antony have failed in their attempt to take over the empire, and Octavian is coming to Alexandria to take them prisoner. Instead, they both choose suicide, but what does that mean for Michelle Moran specializes in writing historical fiction that highlights woman who are strong and overcome great difficulties. Her earlier books focused on some important women from ancient Egypt, but this one brings us to the transition from power being centered in Egypt to it being centered in Rome. Cleopatra and Antony have failed in their attempt to take over the empire, and Octavian is coming to Alexandria to take them prisoner. Instead, they both choose suicide, but what does that mean for their children: the 11-year-old twins Cleopatra Selene and Alexander Helios and their little brother Ptolemy. Octavian brings them back to Rome with the hopes of having them in his Triumph parade. Unfortunately, Ptolemy becomes ill on the journey and does not survive, but Selene and Alexander are settled into the home of Octavia, Antony's ex-wife and Octavian's sister. Surprisingly, they find a warm welcome from most of the Julian family, including from Octavia's children, Octavian's daughter, and even the children of Livia (Octavian's bitter/mean wife). They are schooled as if they are part of the ruling (not-quite-Imperial) family. Selene, who has always had a talent for art, finds that she has a great opportunity to unofficially apprentice with an important architect, who works on a number of the major Roman works of the Augustan period. It allows her some hope that Octavian does not plan to have her and twin killed when they turn 15, the year in which they would be considered adults. As the swirling relationships bring the usual level of interest, the city finds itself confronted by the Red Eagle, a terrorist who seems intent on highlighting the horrors done on Rome's slaves by posting acta (statements) on the doors of temples and other buildings. Over the years, his actions escalate while Selene realizes how true what he says is. The events in this book actually lead quite nicely into the start of I, Claudius (both the book and the mini-series starring Derek Jacobi. Moran has done a nice job bringing the historical characters in her book, most of which are true historical figures, to life. We see a young woman coming to maturity at the center of the forming of a dynasty amid the eddying political infighting among Rome's highest classes. She is a quiet hero, and one worth reading about. ...more Reviewed by Natalie Tsang for TeensReadToo.com I absolutely loved reading CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER by Michelle Moran. The novel is about Marc Anthony and Kleopatra's children and told from the point of view of their daughter, Selene. The novel starts in 30 BC, after two years of fighting between Marc Anthony and Octavian for control of Rome. Things go from bad to worse when Octavian captures Alexandria, the capital of Egypt, and effectively ends the war. After their parents commit suicide, the royal c Reviewed by Natalie Tsang for TeensReadToo.com I absolutely loved reading CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER by Michelle Moran. The novel is about Marc Anthony and Kleopatra's children and told from the point of view of their daughter, Selene. The novel starts in 30 BC, after two years of fighting between Marc Anthony and Octavian for control of Rome. Things go from bad to worse when Octavian captures Alexandria, the capital of Egypt, and effectively ends the war. After their parents commit suicide, the royal children - twins named Alexander and Selene and their younger brother, Ptolemy - are exiled from their home and sent to Rome. While I found the history familiar and fascinating, Selene's story is also compelling. At the start of the novel, she is a precocious eleven-year-old who loves to draw. Though the recent war has made her grow up quickly, she is still hopeful, idealistic, and quickly befriends several members of Octavian's household, including Octavian's heir, Marcellus, and Gallia, a proud enslaved princess. However, even with allies, there is also plenty of court intrigue as Selene struggles to prove that she's useful enough to keep alive to a ruthless and murderous Octavian. Livia, Octavian's wife, hates her and tries to humiliate her at every opportunity. Juba, the prince of Numidia, watches her every move. Moran also does a great job of interpreting historical figures such as a teenage Ovid, the author of Metamorphoses, and a child Tiberius, forty years before his reign as the second Roman emperor. CLEOPATRA'S DAUGHTER achieves a lovely balance between a survey of early Imperial Rome and the story of a young girl growing up far from home. Though Moran show us gladiator games and court trials through Selene's eyes, her main character is much more than a camera lens. I had a hard time putting this book down! Moran creates a world that is both exotic and familiar. Julia, Octavian's daughter, and Selene's shopping sprees are evidence that some things haven't changed in two thousand years! While history lovers are sure to be pleased, readers of romance and mystery should also check this book out. Five Stars! ...more I don't usually feel the need for half stars, but this book really deserves 2 1/2 stars. I really liked some parts, but others fell far short of the mark. This book is historical fiction, but it often didn't feel historical. It read like a middle-grade history essay crossed with a reality TV series; blatant fact dropping held together with drama. The endnotes explain the author's choices, but much of the story still felt out of place. For example: \"And where do you think we would go?\" she (Cleopat I don't usually feel the need for half stars, but this book really deserves 2 1/2 stars. I really liked some parts, but others fell far short of the mark. This book is historical fiction, but it often didn't feel historical. It read like a middle-grade history essay crossed with a reality TV series; blatant fact dropping held together with drama. The endnotes explain the author's choices, but much of the story still felt out of place. For example: \"And where do you think we would go?\" she (Cleopatra) demanded. \"India? China?\" I may be mistaken, but I don't think India was called India at that time. I realize the author is trying to make it easier for those not familiar with ancient geography to visualize, but it just detracts from the factual history. Why not use proper historical names and include a map instead? If you liked this book, you might also enjoy: \u2731 The World of Juba II and Kleopatra Selene (academic, not a novel) \u2731 Lily of the Nile \u2731 Cleopatra's Moon ...more Another book on Egyptian history by a truly amazing author, Moran makes you feel like you have been transported to imperial Rome through the eyes of a brave young girl, daughter of the infamous, powerful Kleopatra. The novel begins with the tragic and dramatic double suicide of one of my favorite love stories in history: Kleopatra and Marc Anthony...dramatically with rival Roman trimurvate Octavian vying for Egypt's power and wealth Kleopatra and Marc Anthony finally deplete their resources and Another book on Egyptian history by a truly amazing author, Moran makes you feel like you have been transported to imperial Rome through the eyes of a brave young girl, daughter of the infamous, powerful Kleopatra. The novel begins with the tragic and dramatic double suicide of one of my favorite love stories in history: Kleopatra and Marc Anthony...dramatically with rival Roman trimurvate Octavian vying for Egypt's power and wealth Kleopatra and Marc Anthony finally deplete their resources and somewhat honorably end their own lives. And this book involves the fate of their children Alexander Helios and Kleopatra Selene;this book would be a five star, an amazing read I got lost in however I found it a little juvenile. In the afterword they speak of how Selene marries and rules for years and while I appreciate the extensive backstory of how she meets her eventual husband, the mystery of the Red Eagle and the wonderful descriptive passages of Rome celebrating and royal life I just wished it was more adult, more mature in its observations..I do however love the book and recommend it to anyone that adored Kleopatra like I do, she was amazing..And any other books on Selene may make this an excellent back story for me.. ...more This is easily the best historical fiction book I have ever read. Roman history, in general is extremely complicated and very lewd. Michelle Moran has succeeded at writing a book that doesn't have Roman's copulating every other page but still has enough reference to keep it...well...real. If fact, this book has an excellent Young Adult feel to it. Another thing that I loved about this book was Moran's ability to make you completely understand your surroundings. I had never fully understood the g This is easily the best historical fiction book I have ever read. Roman history, in general is extremely complicated and very lewd. Michelle Moran has succeeded at writing a book that doesn't have Roman's copulating every other page but still has enough reference to keep it...well...real. If fact, this book has an excellent Young Adult feel to it. Another thing that I loved about this book was Moran's ability to make you completely understand your surroundings. I had never fully understood the government office break down of Rome until I read this book. Moran gives great insight into Roman holidays, habits and private lives. And she did it all without any information dumps. Oh and the character development was awesome. In my opinion, character development is the most important component to any book. This is a definate re-read for me and I'll be sure to pick up Moran's other books and follow her closely in the future. ...more Absolutely absorbing history. Starts at the end of Egyptian rule by Marc Anthony and Cleopatra. After there family in dead The twins Selene and Alexander and younger brother Polythus are taken to Rome to live. Reading you will meet Octavian (later Emperor Augustus) and his family. They keep the twins alive to show mercy. Its interesting reading and learning about how the twins grow in Rome, how Romans lived, the classes of citizens and unrest within the royal family and the kingdom. Highly recom Absolutely absorbing history. Starts at the end of Egyptian rule by Marc Anthony and Cleopatra. After there family in dead The twins Selene and Alexander and younger brother Polythus are taken to Rome to live. Reading you will meet Octavian (later Emperor Augustus) and his family. They keep the twins alive to show mercy. Its interesting reading and learning about how the twins grow in Rome, how Romans lived, the classes of citizens and unrest within the royal family and the kingdom. Highly recommend for all the history buffs and many others would like this also. First book that has made me tear up this year. ...more It seems that I'm on a reread kick with Michelle Moran's works. I've read this book multiple times and somehow I'm still so intrigued. I love this one. I have so much respect and admiration for Kleopatra Selene and for the constant struggle and heartache she faces. Reading her story never fails to fuel my determination in my own life. This is one novel I have no doubt I will continue to reread throughout my lifetime. I highly recommend.", "Title": "Cleopatra's Daughter"},
