{"Comments": "(Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.<---F>) I'll say this for Dr</---F>. <---A>Gleb Tsipursky</---A>, that his heart is certainly in the right place with his nonfiction book <+++>Find Your Purpose Using Science</+++> , and that his advice is definitely up the right alley, advocating things such as journaling as a form of self-reflection,<---M> taking care of yourself</---M>, and doing meaningf (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) I'll say this for Dr. Gleb Tsipursky, that his heart is certainly in the right place with his nonfiction book <+++>Find Your Purpose Using Science</+++> , and that his advice is definitely up the right alley, advocating things such as journaling as a form of self-reflection, taking care of yourself, and doing meaningful volunteer work. (Although religious people should be warned, in case the book's title isn't clear enough, Tsipursky comes at these subjects from a rational and secular humanistic standpoint.) No, the problem is that Tsipursky isn't saying literally an extra word here that can't be gleaned from ten thousand free guides to the subject already online, one of those \"full-length\" books that in reality contains just barely a blog post's worth of truly useful information. (He doesn't even offer up his first piece of actual advice until 28 percent into this already tiny book [and thanks as always to the Kindle reading stats for letting me be this precise], just to have the book's original content be over and the appendix started by the 57-percent mark.) Although he gets an A for earnestness, this is clearly not worth even the $2.99 being charged for the ebook, more a convincing advertisement for Tsipursky's nonprofit Intentional Insights than a book worth purchasing and sitting down with. Buyer beware. Out of 10: 5.0 ...more This book was a really refreshing read. There are so many self-help books out there that are full of flowery language that ask the same generic questions and repeat the same old statements, such as, \u201cDo what makes you happy.\u201d Not so with this book. You cannot passively read this guy\u2019s research. He makes you stop every couple of pages and do thought exercises to help you figure out what you want most out of life. There was even a meditation exercise, which was nice. I also liked how there were lin This book was a really refreshing read. There are so many self-help books out there that are full of flowery language that ask the same generic questions and repeat the same old statements, such as, \u201cDo what makes you happy.\u201d Not so with this book. You cannot passively read this guy\u2019s research. He makes you stop every couple of pages and do thought exercises to help you figure out what you want most out of life. There was even a meditation exercise, which was nice. I also liked how there were links to various articles supporting his research throughout, as well as a fairly extensive bibliography. It gave his words much more credence than had he been just spewing off inspirational rhetoric, as other \u201cfind your purpose books\u201d seem to do. Overall, I really liked this book, and I think anyone who is struggling to find purpose should give it a read. It forced me to look at my life in a really upfront manner, and I\u2019m glad to have read it. ...more I liked this! It was a fast read \u2013 took me less than an hour. I read through the book first and then went back through and really focused on the exercises, which are the main focus of this workbook. Thought provoking, straight to the point, and obviously well researched, this book actually helps you find your meaning and purpose. One of the better self-help books I\u2019ve read! It's especially cool to see the meditation-oriented exercises in there, as I've been getting into mindfulness lately. I\u2019d s I liked this! It was a fast read \u2013 took me less than an hour. I read through the book first and then went back through and really focused on the exercises, which are the main focus of this workbook. Thought provoking, straight to the point, and obviously well researched, this book actually helps you find your meaning and purpose. One of the better self-help books I\u2019ve read! It's especially cool to see the meditation-oriented exercises in there, as I've been getting into mindfulness lately. I\u2019d say it\u2019s worth the read; honestly, if you have nothing else to do, what better way to spend a day in than figuring out your purpose? ...more This book actually works, not kidding. It\u2019s not a boring academic article or nonsense self-help stuff. It makes you pause to ask yourself questions and write down what matters to you, and a bunch of other things. The best part is, is it\u2019s super short, about sixty pages minus the bibliography and stuff, so you don\u2019t have to waste hours of time just to get to the important parts. This book makes you dive right in. I feel like I walked away with a definitely clearer sense of what I want in life, an This book actually works, not kidding. It\u2019s not a boring academic article or nonsense self-help stuff. It makes you pause to ask yourself questions and write down what matters to you, and a bunch of other things. The best part is, is it\u2019s super short, about sixty pages minus the bibliography and stuff, so you don\u2019t have to waste hours of time just to get to the important parts. This book makes you dive right in. I feel like I walked away with a definitely clearer sense of what I want in life, and that\u2019s super exciting for me, as I\u2019ve never really had a clear idea. It will only take you a couple hours if you do all the exercises right, so I\u2019d say that this books totally worth the buy. ...more Wow, I\u2019ve been looking for something like this! I grew up in a religious home and my parents always told me to \u2018find meaning in God\u2019 and all that, but this book makes you use science. So cool. I\u2019ve always wanted to figure out the answers to the big questions, and man did this book help \u2013 it even made me set some goals for myself and really dig in to what my ideal life would be an how could set up a plan to make that life happen! The exercises were great. Totally recommend this. All in all, interesting read. I\u2019ll give it to the author, the book does do what it promised \u2013 the book has tons of exercises that make you stop and think more about your purpose. It\u2019s a step by step process and pretty easy to follow. I don\u2019t know if I\u2019ve discovered my life\u2019s true meaning, but I\u2019ve definitely given it a bit more thought. If you\u2019re not sure about what it all means, I\u2019d say that you should give this book a shot! Who knows, you might walk away with something pretty awesome. Interesting approach. I liked the reason-based approach to finding meaning and purpose, and I certainly identify with the author\u2019s struggle to distance himself from his religious upbringing and find evidence-based perspectives on meaning and purpose. This science-based approach was certainly helpful for me, as were the exercises. Would recommend to my reason-oriented friends. Professor Tsipursky\u2019s book \"Find Your Purpose Using Science\" provides a great overview of the subject, along with workbook exercises. It is a must read for those who are charting their trajectory in life and are seeking to create their own meaning and purpose. As a practitioner of science-based, data-driven continuous improvement processes, first in business and then applied more broadly to other areas of my life, I've been aware of the benefits of scientific, rational decision making. Until reading this book, however, I had no concept of how this approach could be applied to some of the most high level questions of human existence. I would encourage anyone wishing to improve their mental and physical well being to give this short but impactful book a As a practitioner of science-based, data-driven continuous improvement processes, first in business and then applied more broadly to other areas of my life, I've been aware of the benefits of scientific, rational decision making. Until reading this book, however, I had no concept of how this approach could be applied to some of the most high level questions of human existence. I would encourage anyone wishing to improve their mental and physical well being to give this short but impactful book a read, particularly if you've never given a lot of intentional thought to your meaning and purpose in life. Dr. Gleb Tsipursky does a terrific job of summarizing and citing recent research in psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and other disciplines to put one on a path to discovering meaning and purpose through science. As someone who has not had much exposure to these deep, philosophical questions, other than perhaps from watching Monty Python's Meaning of Life, this book offers a great start. The book summarizes several common philosophical perspectives on finding meaning and purpose, including Christianity, Eastern-based philosophy, existentialism, and humanism. There are many paths to finding one's meaning and purpose. Dr. Tsipursky shows scientific evidence that a strong sense of meaning and purpose will improve your life, and that science can help you find it. ...more This book was good. I\u2019ve been struggling to find purpose lately, and so, when I saw the title, I thought giving it a read couldn\u2019t hurt. The idea of purpose has always been so abstract to me, so I had never thought to view purpose as something that can be attained using logic and science. However, the author lays out some cool ways to find your purpose using science. The exercises were helpful. This book works for people who actually take the time to stop and think deeply about the questions the This book was good. I\u2019ve been struggling to find purpose lately, and so, when I saw the title, I thought giving it a read couldn\u2019t hurt. The idea of purpose has always been so abstract to me, so I had never thought to view purpose as something that can be attained using logic and science. However, the author lays out some cool ways to find your purpose using science. The exercises were helpful. This book works for people who actually take the time to stop and think deeply about the questions the author presents \u2013 you can\u2019t just rush through the reading of it. That being said, the book is short so you could easily spend a day on it and be done. As constructive criticism, the only thing I didn\u2019t like was the graphics. I didn\u2019t think all those pictures were needed. Other than that, Find Your Purpose Using Science was an interesting book. ...more Hands down, Find Your Purpose Using Science works. I feel closer to finding meaning in my life than I have in a very long time. The author, Gleb Tsipursky, hasn\u2019t written just another self-help book. This is a well-researched self-help book that provides straight-forward strategies to help people think deeply about what their real purpose is. Are you going to find your purpose in one day after reading this book? Probably not. But are you going to see a clearer path to achieving the life you want Hands down, Find Your Purpose Using Science works. I feel closer to finding meaning in my life than I have in a very long time. The author, Gleb Tsipursky, hasn\u2019t written just another self-help book. This is a well-researched self-help book that provides straight-forward strategies to help people think deeply about what their real purpose is. Are you going to find your purpose in one day after reading this book? Probably not. But are you going to see a clearer path to achieving the life you want after finishing it? Definitely. I would recommend that anyone, even those who are content with their lives, read this book to build a clearer picture of who they are and what they really want. Great read! ...more I was originally hesitant to read this book. Having come from a religious background, I thought that this book would condemn those who find life meaning in religion. However, I was wrong. This book offers an alternative to finding purpose and meaning life. This book is suitable for both secular and religious people who have trouble finding their purpose within religion. As previous reviews have stated, the amiable writing style and the hands-on exercises made the short book quite pleasant to rea I was originally hesitant to read this book. Having come from a religious background, I thought that this book would condemn those who find life meaning in religion. However, I was wrong. This book offers an alternative to finding purpose and meaning life. This book is suitable for both secular and religious people who have trouble finding their purpose within religion. As previous reviews have stated, the amiable writing style and the hands-on exercises made the short book quite pleasant to read. I also do some contract work for the nonprofit run by the author of the book. Most of the articles written by the author are very nice and also there are lot of knowledge to acquire after reading this book. I would recommend this book! ...more I liked this! It was a fast read \u2013 took me less than an hour. I read through the book first and then went back through and really focused on the exercises, which are the main focus of this workbook. Thought provoking, straight to the point, and obviously well researched, this book actually helps you find your meaning and purpose. One of the better self-help books I\u2019ve read! It's especially cool to see the meditation-oriented exercises in there, as I've been getting into mindfulness lately. I\u2019d s I liked this! It was a fast read \u2013 took me less than an hour. I read through the book first and then went back through and really focused on the exercises, which are the main focus of this workbook. Thought provoking, straight to the point, and obviously well researched, this book actually helps you find your meaning and purpose. One of the better self-help books I\u2019ve read! It's especially cool to see the meditation-oriented exercises in there, as I've been getting into mindfulness lately. I\u2019d say it\u2019s worth the read; honestly, if you have nothing else to do, what better way to spend a day in than figuring out your purpose? ...more Mostly excellent resources and advice After college, I had no idea what career I wanted to enter, and I was lost about how to start deciding. This book came along and gave me some real help facing my questions. My only critique is that a few of the cited studies and articles are linked to paywalled journals and expired websites, and a few of the hyperlinks don't work. Regardless, I've got some good strategies now, and I'm grateful that Mr. Tsipursky offered this e-book for free. Cool book, thought-provoking exercises, nice inclusion of meditation, and the author has a nice writing style. If you\u2019re having trouble finding your purpose, I think this new research could help.<---C>Gleb Tsipursky</---C>", "Title": "Find Your Purpose Using Science"},
