{"Comments": "I don't rate my own books. Bloodlines By <---A>Lindsay Anne Kendal</---A> \u201cKeira Jameson used to lead a normal life,<---M> she just had a gift</---M>, passed down through the generations of her family. Now, after hearing voices, having strange dreams of others calling out to her, and her grandfather's last words haunting her, she sets out to find other families like hers. Along with her best friend Lily, the only person outside her family to know about her gift, Keira begins a hunt for her ancestors. A chance meeting with a young man, Lucian Turne Bloodlines By Lindsay Anne Kendal \u201cKeira Jameson used to lead a normal life, she just had a gift, passed down through the generations of her family. Now, after hearing voices, having strange dreams of others calling out to her, and her grandfather's last words haunting her, she sets out to find other families like hers. Along with her best friend Lily, the only person outside her family to know about her gift, Keira begins a hunt for her ancestors. A chance meeting with a young man, Lucian Turner, sets them on the right track, but their discoveries change the way Keira will see herself for ever more. Fear, superstition and heritage are shaping Keira's future and she must face her enemies, even if this could mean losing her life.<---F> She cannot escape her destiny</---F>. Part Buffy-style horror, part tender romance, Bloodlines will have fans of the genre on tenterhooks waiting for the next instalment of this gripping and hell-raising tale.\u201d Perhaps it sounds like a lazy excuse, but I really liked the already existing synopsis (<---B>I usually write my own.</---B>) It fit it well. Now, I\u2019ll tackle the negatives real quick, drinking, smoking, explicit (not graphic) romance, suicide (um, sorta,) and cussing. All of these characters are of age, just thought I\u2019d let you know. The suicide is\u2026I can\u2019t say because it\u2019d give it away, but I feel like letting it slide, because\u2026well, you\u2019ll figure it out if you read it. However, this book was really original. (originality goes a long way with me.) I found Bloodlines (and <+++>Torment</+++>) extremely unique and different than most main characters. I love the supporting roles, and I love the dynamics the characters share. My favorite character is Eligos. He\u2019s such a sweetie (don\u2019t tell him that! He is a Lord in hell after all\u2026) I feel like it\u2019s totally worth it. (Interview with the authorlater!) Not to mention, the KILLER cliffhanger at the end of <+++>Torment</+++>. I\u2019m jazzed to find out what\u2019s next! http://www.rachelsbookreviews.com/#!_... ...more Torment is the second in the Bloodlines trilogy. This book fascinated me for a variety of reasons. The strongest pull that drew me in was Lindsay\u2019s interesting take on sorcery and Hell, even though as a Christian, I don\u2019t agree with them, it is just a fictional story. A close second is Lindsay\u2019s skillful ability to paint a strong cast of likable young adult characters from the first book and allowed us learn even more in the second. This sequel delves deep into their daily interactions with each Torment is the second in the Bloodlines trilogy. This book fascinated me for a variety of reasons. The strongest pull that drew me in was Lindsay\u2019s interesting take on sorcery and Hell, even though as a Christian, I don\u2019t agree with them, it is just a fictional story. A close second is Lindsay\u2019s skillful ability to paint a strong cast of likable young adult characters from the first book and allowed us learn even more in the second. This sequel delves deep into their daily interactions with each other as their bonds become stronger. Like each of us must face in real life, these imaginary young adults struggle with the same difficulties in managing relationships, emotional issues, coming to terms with who they are and why they are here in this world. But when they discover that alliances previously made were not the best choices, all Hell breaks loose (literally!) Important issues about how young adults view not only themselves, but others as well both on the outside as well as the core of our inner beings, are subtly woven into this great tale. Loyalties are tested and only those with strong moral convictions will survive. Lindsay reveals a few more intricate details of Kiera\u2019s life and her true calling, then suddenly, leaves you staring at the last page! Hurry up and finish! It takes a truly creative mind and talented author to not only make the characters come alive on the page, but to describe a fictional world with such intricate detail and make it believable. Congratulations to Lindsay for accomplishing these feats with ease! ...more I would have finished this book last night \u2013 but when hubby left for the football game my daughter and I took advantage to watch our tv-shows on the DVR and we are now caught up with the rest-of ya\u2019 on Grey\u2019s Anatomy. I loved the first book \u2018Bloodlines\u2019 so much, when I finished my review I bought the second book from B&N. I made the comment about how the ebook pages were wacky, well they were wacky with this book as well. But instead of skipping 4 pages a flip like the first book, Torment ski I would have finished this book last night \u2013 but when hubby left for the football game my daughter and I took advantage to watch our tv-shows on the DVR and we are now caught up with the rest-of ya\u2019 on Grey\u2019s Anatomy. I loved the first book \u2018Bloodlines\u2019 so much, when I finished my review I bought the second book from B&N. I made the comment about how the ebook pages were wacky, well they were wacky with this book as well. But instead of skipping 4 pages a flip like the first book, Torment skipped 2 pages per flip on my reader. so weird. I was so glad Keira come back at the end of last book *whew* the fight was exciting and then to know she is back\u2026 I just couldn\u2019t remember reading of another main character dieing like she had done. I was hoping for her to come back as they kept dropping how long she had been gone. Thank goodness! Now this book begins with Keira telling the story of her death, her reawakening and now her return. I love the twist with her and Eligos being our love interest. I mean really for her to have all that awesome power and I guess all she has went through with her family (dad killed, mom shunned her, gramps died) she is very mature and independent. With that said she was not a good fit with any of the guys, she needed a Man, a strong man, one that is stronger than her and able to protect her. Eligos is Perfect! I was glad to hear / read that Clare was only the incubator for <---C>Lilith</---C>\u2019s egg. Lilith wanted a daughter and her and Keira are a match set. In chapter three she was so tense and snappy at the guys and Lily for all the questions. But if you stand back and think of all she\u2019s went through and the bond she has with Eligos. Which now we know that Lu & Lil cut both Keira and Eligos and mixed their blood which gives them a blood bond and that is a reason she is so angry \u2013 she\u2019s away from Eligos and he too is angry. I love BONDS.. thank you for that Lindsay! So all that said .. then the guy shows with long blond hair and attacks her, she is pissed and feeling cocky. So he attacks her and she was sorta wimpy then finally she allowed the demon in her to take over and run him off. Um\u2026 HELLO.. he was trying to kill you goofy girl you should have killed him. Later when she got home, Lily tells her \u201cYou\u2019ve been so different, you\u2019ve been moody and you have no patience.\u201d \u2013 I was so glad that Eligos come and lit into her. She didn\u2019t call him to help her with the blond-demon and now he can come back to kill her or one of her friends. I liked your imagination with Hell \u2013 and it made it funny when one of them would get made at another and tell them to go to hell. lol ;) So much happen in this book; we have Keira\u2019s return from death as full demon, her relationship with Eligos grows toward marriage. You have a man that bears a scar and he spells it to keep it hidden because he is worried of losing you. wow. He learn he has been alone for so long because he thinks no one would love him. Sometimes the wounded are the best lovers \u2013 for they will be so devoted and faithful. Tyler spouted out hateful things.. on pg 412 he said very nastily while looking at Eligos. \u201cDemons, they\u2019re nothing but heartless, torturing, sick, twisted and demented bastards.\u201d when Keira hollers at him he tells her to shut-up and t h a t is when Eligos punched him and sent him flying across the floor. And then again on pg 452 Tyler says; he doubts people would want demon friends, Especially when all they do is come here and take your women.\u201d Eligos went over to punch him again but was stopped. Tyler in the last book was so loving and in this book he turned into a jealous creep. It is really true that jealousy will ruin you and your friendships \u2013 after this book no one will feel the same with Tyler. He is blessed to be alive \u2013 I believe I may have killed him when he tortured my lover the way he did Eligos. grrr it makes me mad thinking bout it. We had a kidnapping, and I want to say Thank you again to the author for allowing Eligos to pick up the storyline. I loved that in that last book when Lucian picked up the story and then in this book we had Eligos, Danny, and Lily picked up the story. Awesome! So Eligos finds Keira where she was kidnapped and tortured.. and I loved that you allowed her to be healed and then return to kill her kidnapper herself. ;) So we have two gals enter scene and they will be a nice addition to the magical clan as we need more gals for these guys. Oh I was so happy that with Danny\u2019s maturity you allowed him to have relationship with Hecate as she too is mature. Again you allowed Beth & Marley to kill the demons that tortured their parents and tortured them \u2013 I was glad of that as well. I believe it helps in the healing and gives them comfort and closure for the characters mentally. So chapter 38 is Danny\u2019s Story \u2026 wow at this point I\u2019m have begun discussing with my daughter\u2026 sharing my excitement of how good this book is\u2026 and then when they started fighting each other I could hardly contain myself.. I was shouting out what I believed to be happening. (You know how it is when your watching tv \u2013 well imagine me like that with my book) lol \u2013 thank goodness Hecate showed up to stop this before it got bad. We learned of Eligos second \u201cCarlos\u201d betrayal and he killed him. So he needed a replacement and that is when the story did a twist I really didn\u2019t like \u2013 Danny killed himself \u2013 ((This bothered me as I had a friend in high school that hung himself from a tree in his backyard. )) so this was a sour topic for me. But he become a full demon Captain and now can be with Hecate and in Eligos Army. Marley has the vision of visions\u2026 pg 838 She said she felt \u201csafe, warm, loved\u2026 she was so powerful; she could feel it, like the power was pouring out of her. She was so strong\u201d She goes on to tell them she has blue eyes and they are all confused as to what demon has blue eyes. But she goes on to tell them whomever she is \u2026 she is very powerful. I liked the little glimpse the guys got of \u2018Lilith\u2019 when she popped in to kill two demons.. she said \u2018I hate those things\u2019 Keira tells her \u2018Thank You\u2019 Lilith said \u201cYour Welcome\u2026 Well, must dash. See you soon\u201d \u2013 and the next minute she was gone. Welp later Danny tells the guys\u2026 \u201cI\u2019m a demon, simple as that. Can\u2019t change it \u2013 wouldn\u2019t change it. This is what I wanted, I did what I had to do, and now I am what I am,\u201d Then the bad thing happened\u2026 my chest is tighting as I think of it and I am have to breath in, breath out. Tyler summoned Eligos (I would like to know how he did that, btw) when Eligos beamed in he was in a \u201cdemon trap\u201d. That stupid, jealous Tyler trapped Eligos (in a demon trap he is powerless) so he could torture him with the demon tools the Eligos brought for them to train with for the war. That moved Tyler to my most disliked character list. Okay so when Keira, Danny, Lucian and Hecate found Eligos at Tylers house in the trap and rescued him \u2013 Danny took Eligos home in Hell to heal him properly. So Eligos of course he see\u2019s all these scars on him he doens\u2019t want Keira to see him and tells Danny and Hecate NOT to bring her to him. So Kiera finally yells she wants to DIE and Lilith beams in front of her and takes life from her. Now Keira can beam to Hell herself and she does immediately to be with Eligos. It takes tragedy to move a relationship along to the next steps and this one is now on its way to be married. They are engaged! You know what would have been kool, If Keiras healing powers could heal him of all his scars. But I understand her to love him with them too. Chapter 52 that fearless Keira walks into a building / a church on her route home that she hasn\u2019t seen before. No Keira don\u2019t think \u201cTRAP\u201d but lets walk in and check it out. Lets holler \u201cHELLO\u201d anyone here? Grrrr\u2026. girl you are too brave for your own good. Now the moment the mist was visible you should have knew it and maybe you did.. but its too late as you have walked into a trap where your powers are useless and you can\u2019t escape.. and I know when that mist possesed you it is sending you to do what they wanted all the time.. to kill your friends, your lover. Next is Lily\u2019s Story.. OMG my heart does a flip! Tyler is there trying to apologize to Eligos and that \u2026 hmm.. how do you give forgiveness to someone that tortured you and meant to kill you? Remember the Vision \u2026 well it is happening\u2026 Lily screams to Eligos when they see Keira and her eyes are flashing red then blue and she is crawling.. fighting this possession within herself.. what is it? \u2026 An Angel.\u201d **Anxiously awaiting\u2026 Revelationsby Lindsay Anne Kendal Available for Pre-Order This item will be available on Jan 01, 2012. ...more I think I'm crazy. Torment was not a vast improvement over bloodlines. Did Keira develop? No. Did Keira find love? I don't care, I'm not invested in what happens to these guys. The plotting... I guess you could say it improved because there weren't any chapters dedicated to housecleaning (A note from the author herself states that those chapters have been reduced in recent editions of Bloodlines) but it's still bizarre in places. Example: Demons attack the main characters, the main characters fig I think I'm crazy. Torment was not a vast improvement over bloodlines. Did Keira develop? No. Did Keira find love? I don't care, I'm not invested in what happens to these guys. The plotting... I guess you could say it improved because there weren't any chapters dedicated to housecleaning (A note from the author herself states that those chapters have been reduced in recent editions of Bloodlines) but it's still bizarre in places. Example: Demons attack the main characters, the main characters fight them off, and afterwards they take a break and enjoy their lives despite the rapidly rising number of towns that have been completely cleared out, because, y'know, proactivity in the face of imminent destruction is not sensible! It's not like they couldn't have tried to figure out who the villain was through detective work! No, by all means, enjoy those martinis. I'll sit here, dying in a corner, being disemboweled by a Lovecraftian behemoth until it's convenient for you to help! For that matter, the logic doesn't work at times. Apparently Queen Lilith can't find the demon responsible for the attacks because she has no organized database of her citizens. She's obviously never heard of a census, which is stupid because she's been around since basically the beginning of time. Um... could someone make sense, please? In my review of Bloodlines, I expressed optimism in regards to the third book. Mrs. Kendal, if you're reading this, please deliver. You really do have a great premise and it would be a shame to see it go to waste. ...more After the end of Bloodlines, I had so many questions when starting this book. It is a little darker, a little more violent, and much more romantic. When Keira comes back from Hell things become very complicated. Especially when she doesn't come back alone. Eligos, a character met only briefly in the first novel, comes to the forefront in this one, which causes all kinds of jealousy in the young man who has fallen in love with Keira. (And no, I am not telling you which young man that is. That woul After the end of Bloodlines, I had so many questions when starting this book. It is a little darker, a little more violent, and much more romantic. When Keira comes back from Hell things become very complicated. Especially when she doesn't come back alone. Eligos, a character met only briefly in the first novel, comes to the forefront in this one, which causes all kinds of jealousy in the young man who has fallen in love with Keira. (And no, I am not telling you which young man that is. That would spoil the first book.) Eligos and Keira have wonderful chemistry. They argue and make up all the time because they are both so stubborn. Eligos, despite his crazy fighting and magic skills, is also very vulnerable. He has a secret that he fears will stop Keira from loving him. The level of magic and adventure in this book is much higher than the first. Their powers gain strength (due to a bit of help) and even more enemies are after them. Keira has mom troubles (with both of her mothers), Lily gets to join the fun and a few more girls (some more supernatural than others) come into town. The only thing I disliked about this book is that the next one isn't out yet. ...more 4.5 stars This is book two in this series. To see my review of the first book Bloodlines click HERE. Torment picks up right where Bloodline left off and you are pulled right back into Keira's crazy world. I think I enjoyed this book even more than the first. The excitement is in full swing as we already know the characters. I don't have too much to say about this book. The author has created such an amazing world that will really have you question you perception of heaven, hell, angels and demons 4.5 stars This is book two in this series. To see my review of the first book Bloodlines click HERE. Torment picks up right where Bloodline left off and you are pulled right back into Keira's crazy world. I think I enjoyed this book even more than the first. The excitement is in full swing as we already know the characters. I don't have too much to say about this book. The author has created such an amazing world that will really have you question you perception of heaven, hell, angels and demons. I don't want to give anything away with about this review, but if you have any kind of interest in the paranormal/supernatural you will enjoy this book. I can't wait for the next installment. Kendal has left us with one heck of a cliff hanger at the end, the kind that TV shows leave you with at during a season finally. Kendal also has an amazing talent that helps the reader visualize her world. You can see the story play out as you read and want more with every turn of the page. ...more This author is really fantasic. I am anxiously waiting for the third book in the series I have a Kindle and have not purchased a paper copy book in 3 years. I loved the first story so much I couldn't wait for it to come out on Kindle so I ordered the paperback. It did not disappoint! Oh my god, I can't wait for this book. UPDATE!! Just noticed the characters have been listed.... OMG! Lilith and Lucifer. What's going to happen next??? So this is one of those books where I can\u2019t fully decide if I like it or not. I feel like the story itself was interesting with cool plots and decent characters but I feel like the execution of the books fell through. The writing was done poorly, the narration was terrible and thoughts did not seem to be presented clearly. That being said, if the book was edited properly and the book itself was written properly, I think the plot was intriguing and the books would have been spectacular. Unfortuna So this is one of those books where I can\u2019t fully decide if I like it or not. I feel like the story itself was interesting with cool plots and decent characters but I feel like the execution of the books fell through. The writing was done poorly, the narration was terrible and thoughts did not seem to be presented clearly. That being said, if the book was edited properly and the book itself was written properly, I think the plot was intriguing and the books would have been spectacular. Unfortunately it came across as more of a \u201cmeh\u201d series. The character, Keira, also the main character in the book was certainly a character of power. I really enjoyed how loyal she was to her friends especially her sister-like best friend. Even though she had these mysterious powers, her friend stuck through with her and even uprooted herself to go on an adventure with Keira to find out who she really was. While I enjoyed her loyalty and her friendship, I found her somewhat whiny, unpredictable, confused, and plain annoying. I hated how she seemed to string along the boys because she couldn\u2019t figure out who she liked. She went from Lucien to Tyler to finally the demon. I feel like she played with their feelings without meaning to which is even worse than doing it on purpose, IMO. I just didn\u2019t appreciate how wishy washy she was. I loved Keira\u2019s best friend, Lily. Like I stated earlier, I loved her quiet strength and ability to protect her friends even though she was the mere mortal. She was probably the one character that I completely enjoyed reading about because she was nice, genuine, and an overall great human being. The boys \u2013 Lucien, Tyler, Danny and Jake \u2013 were kind of \u201cmeh\u201d to me. Personally I liked Jake the most because he was always so stable and reliable. Danny was someone I came to appreciate even though he first came across as a douche but when the demon aspect came along, he was the one who became the most adaptable. Lucien was decent in the beginning until he became a jerk but then he was okay again \u2013 super wishy washy. Tyler was someone I really enjoyed reading about in the beginning until he let his jealous streak go a little too serious and then I started to hate him. Overall, the boys certainly brought an interesting aspect to the books. Eligos, the demon whom Keira ultimately fell in love with, was so insecure. He was this great Demon Lord but couldn\u2019t trust Keira to love him with his scarred face and the thing was, it wasn\u2019t even that bad of a scar. He was just so insecure that it was frustrating to read the push and pull they had with each other. It wasn\u2019t until the end of the second book when they really solidified their love for each other and then things started to be a little better. So the one thing I hated about this book was the writing style. I thought it was terribly executed. In a way, I felt as if I was reading a narration the entire time rather than actually being engaged with the characters and plot. I also felt like everything was a fairy tale with random demon attacks. Everyone was being matched with everyone and everyone was this one big happy family and it felt like no one could do no wrong (until Tyler did that doozy). It just felt so incredibly unrealistic that I was like no. Overall, interesting series \u2013 I only found a copy of the first two books and can\u2019t seem to find the third book but I doubt I will engage myself even more with the third book. Part of me is interested to read the end but the other part of me doesn\u2019t even want to give the book any more of my time. ...more Angela's Review: Torment is the sequel to Kendal\u2019s debut novel, Bloodlines and second book in the trilogy. The characters were flushed out more in this book. We got to know them deeper than their appearances and some of it was ugly. I enjoyed how this book DIDN\u2019T fall into the dreaded sequel curse and not live up to the quality of the first. There were a few spots that felt slow when the gang was in between battles but it might have been necessary to allow the reader to breathe freely every once Angela's Review: Torment is the sequel to Kendal\u2019s debut novel, Bloodlines and second book in the trilogy. The characters were flushed out more in this book. We got to know them deeper than their appearances and some of it was ugly. I enjoyed how this book DIDN\u2019T fall into the dreaded sequel curse and not live up to the quality of the first. There were a few spots that felt slow when the gang was in between battles but it might have been necessary to allow the reader to breathe freely every once and a while. I was very happy for Lily (in the love and power situation)! She is a great character and provides Keira the best shoulder to lean on and help push her in the right direction. Reading about Eligos and the populous of Hell was another place where Kendal shined. Her take on Hell provided me with a chance to reimagine all that childhood Christianity indoctrinated me into. The British-isms were stronger in this book, so occasionally my brain wandered away from Salem, MA, USA. I enjoyed the additional characters and getting to know Keira\u2019s mom more. The last third of the book flew by and as I reached the last page (CLIFFHANGER) I actually shouted \u201cWhere\u2019s the rest?!\u201d I can\u2019t wait to get my hands on the final installment, Revelations. I rated this book 4/5 stars. Carleny's Review: The middle of the month Book Cove book was Torment by Lindsay Anne Kendal provided by the author. After the cliffhanger that the first book left off I was excited to read what would happen with Kiera and the rest of the crew. I was definitely not disappointed! New female characters were introduced which was great for making the gang less guy heavy. We finally get to meet Lilith and we get to see how her relationship with Kiera is a bit rocky and not exactly perfect like I had imagined it to be. Their relationship certainly made it seem more real for me since I know that every mom/daughter pair aren't always agreeing with each other and super perfect. There were some parts that made me uncomfortable; the whole suicide thing is always a hard subject for me to handle, so trigger warning for anyone that has suicide as a trigger. The less said about Tyler's attitude the better... Definitely my least favorite character of the gang. Torture and mayhem happens! Eligos is back! There's an engagement! There's torture and mayhem happens! New characters! And a cliffhanger! I rate this book a 4/5 overall and look forward to reading the third book and chatting with Lindsay again about her characters. Emily's Review: Lindsay has done it again!!..This book was awesome (it had a few slow moments but the action made up for that) I cannot wait to see how this Trilogy ends..eeekk very excited!! ...more Keira has returned to her friends, three weeks after she had died. While they are excited to have her back, none of truly questioned how it is that she is back. But Keira has changed in the time that she was away and she's afraid of what her friends will think. Keira is also struggling with her feelings for demon Eligos, who has been sent by her mother to protect her while in the human realm. But she learns that taking a leap of faith means putting herself out there for the one that you love. Of Keira has returned to her friends, three weeks after she had died. While they are excited to have her back, none of truly questioned how it is that she is back. But Keira has changed in the time that she was away and she's afraid of what her friends will think. Keira is also struggling with her feelings for demon Eligos, who has been sent by her mother to protect her while in the human realm. But she learns that taking a leap of faith means putting herself out there for the one that you love. Of course, the group is still trying to determine who is trying to start the demon war and keeps attacking them. It's not easy to do when even Lucifer himself can't find those responsible. So the group takes to upping their power with some demonic help and training so they can be ready when the time comes. I enjoyed this installment in the series so much better. Maybe that's because Keira is in a much more adult relationship with Eligos. Sure she has to deal with high school \"hijinks\" by jealous ex-paramours, but ultimately Keira is acting much older than her 22 years and we have the delightful Eligos to thank for that. We also get insight into Lillith and Lucifer's world in Hell and meet some more of the residents of Hell. Much more enjoyable and engaging. As with the first book, you get sucked into the what's happening with Keira (not so much everyone else) and stand behind her everything she does: whether it be standing up to her mother, fighting with Eligos or confessing her true feelings for a certain 4000+ year old demon. Again, I applaud the author for sucking me to the point that I quickly checking Goodreads to see when the last book in the series comes out (January? Really??). While I may not like the flow of the storyline or some of the unnecessary elements, you still can't help but look forward to the last book just to make sure Keira gets her HEA. ...more 4.5* Kiera is back from Hell and has to explain to her earth bound friends where she\u2019s been and what she has become. When demons try to take over the underworld, life on Earth is thrown into chaos. Kiera and her five friends, along with Eligos are the only people able to find out who the leader of the rebellion is and defeat him. Bigger and better battles take place in Torment, the second instalment of \u2018Bloodlines the trilogy\u2019. Kiera has become stronger, she has a better understanding of her power 4.5* Kiera is back from Hell and has to explain to her earth bound friends where she\u2019s been and what she has become. When demons try to take over the underworld, life on Earth is thrown into chaos. Kiera and her five friends, along with Eligos are the only people able to find out who the leader of the rebellion is and defeat him. Bigger and better battles take place in Torment, the second instalment of \u2018Bloodlines the trilogy\u2019. Kiera has become stronger, she has a better understanding of her powers and how to use them and she found love in the form of Eligos, *drools*. Everything that happens in this book is \u2018bigger\u2019 the fighting is more vicious the romance is more romantic, it all feels older like everyone has grown-up some since the last book\u2026\u2026..that could just be Kiera or it could be Eligos\u2019 influence over the group. We are introduced to quite a few new characters, some better developed than others. On the writing side Lindsay has definitely grown, some of the simple mistakes she made in her debut novel have not been repeated in this one though I have to say the cliff hanger at the end is ten times worse than \u2018Bloodlines\u2019 and I really really REALLY hate cliff hangers!!!! This whole series has a very unique plot with interesting characters and fans of the genre will not be disappointed with this YA demonic trilogy. ...more This was an October read for my book club, The Book Cove. Torment is the sequel to Kendal\u2019s debut novel, Bloodlines and second book in the trilogy. The characters were flushed out more in this book. We got to know them deeper than their appearances and some of it was ugly. I enjoyed how this book DIDN\u2019T fall into the dreaded sequel curse and not live up to the quality of the first. There were a few spots that felt slow when the gang was in between battles but it might have been necessary to allo This was an October read for my book club, The Book Cove. Torment is the sequel to Kendal\u2019s debut novel, Bloodlines and second book in the trilogy. The characters were flushed out more in this book. We got to know them deeper than their appearances and some of it was ugly. I enjoyed how this book DIDN\u2019T fall into the dreaded sequel curse and not live up to the quality of the first. There were a few spots that felt slow when the gang was in between battles but it might have been necessary to allow the reader to breathe freely every once and a while. I was very happy for Lily (in the love and power situation)! She is a great character and provides Keira the best shoulder to lean on and help push her in the right direction. Reading about Eligos and the populous of Hell was another place where Kendal shined. Her take on Hell provided me with a chance to reimagine all that childhood Christianity indoctrinated me into. The British-isms were stronger in this book, so occasionally my brain wandered away from Salem, MA, USA. I enjoyed the additional characters and getting to know Keira\u2019s mom more. The last third of the book flew by and as I reached the last page (CLIFFHANGER) I actually shouted \u201cWhere\u2019s the rest?!\u201d I can\u2019t wait to get my hands on the final installment, Revelations. ...more Against my better judgement, I read the second installment after all. If I was annoyed with the language in the first book, that was nothing compared to this one. This may just be me, but, when writing a series the language and dialogue exchanged, should be consistent throughout. I found that the characters were speaking in a completely different manner to what they did in the first book; excessively using words such as 'mate', 'bloody', 'fancy' etc. words that were not once used in the first no Against my better judgement, I read the second installment after all. If I was annoyed with the language in the first book, that was nothing compared to this one. This may just be me, but, when writing a series the language and dialogue exchanged, should be consistent throughout. I found that the characters were speaking in a completely different manner to what they did in the first book; excessively using words such as 'mate', 'bloody', 'fancy' etc. words that were not once used in the first novel. It's as though the characters all changed nationalities and became British or Australian over night. Aside from the language, the majority of the story was quite predictable. I actually thought something interesting may have been behind Eligos' reason for initially not wanting to be with Keira, when what it was was revealed, I must admit that I actually laughed. I couldn't believe that something so insignificant could have been the reason. Not just insignificant, but came up as a topic of discussion for a number of chapters. If someone gives me the next copy to read, I must admit I will peruse it, if only to see if the language changes yet again. ...more For my book club's recent read, we read and discussed Torment by Linsay Anne Kendall. Torment is the second book in her Bloodlines series. I loved this series and thought Torment was an incredible sequel. My favorite aspect of this book was that it was not like many sequels that fall flat compared to the first book. I didn't feel that it was irrelevant. In fact, this book complimented the series beautifully! I felt that Torment gave the characters more depth and had developed the characters well. For my book club's recent read, we read and discussed Torment by Linsay Anne Kendall. Torment is the second book in her Bloodlines series. I loved this series and thought Torment was an incredible sequel. My favorite aspect of this book was that it was not like many sequels that fall flat compared to the first book. I didn't feel that it was irrelevant. In fact, this book complimented the series beautifully! I felt that Torment gave the characters more depth and had developed the characters well. Some of the characters changes surprised me! One of my favorite parts of Torment was Lindsay's depiction of hell. Though I do not believe in Lindsay's version of hell, I liked the concept and creativity of it. Her version of hell was unique and was interesting. The plot was captivating as well! Full of intense battles and magical elements, you will not be disappointed. However, there were a few slow parts between fights. Finally, I must talk about the ending. Lindsay left us on a cliffhanger that has me dying to read the next book! The last part of the book went extremely fast and then just ended. I NEED ANSWERS! Overall, I love this book and highly recommend it! ...more Once again I apologise for the late review. Torment...well what can I say... it really does torment you. This story goes a lot deeper than Bloodlines did. We learn a lot more about Keira and the young mens families, and the best part, we see a whole lot more of Eligos. *swoons* Keira and her friends are being tormented in every sense of the word by the person or thing that wants to kill them. The group are close to exhaustion and being torn apart on occasions. There are a lot more fight scenes, a Once again I apologise for the late review. Torment...well what can I say... it really does torment you. This story goes a lot deeper than Bloodlines did. We learn a lot more about Keira and the young mens families, and the best part, we see a whole lot more of Eligos. *swoons* Keira and her friends are being tormented in every sense of the word by the person or thing that wants to kill them. The group are close to exhaustion and being torn apart on occasions. There are a lot more fight scenes, a very beautiful and mature love story, and some new characters are introduce. None other than Lucifer and Lilth. The book is very original. It has really opened my mind up. It takes the things we generally class and right and wrong, good and evil.. and turns everything upside down. I read in an interview with the author that these are her own personal beliefs. Wow. What a very interesting and unique way of looking at things. The ending leaves you, for lack of a better word... Pissed! Miss Kendal is an evil author leaving you gagging for more. I cannot wait for the next installment. I hope all hell lets lose. ...more Review from busymomsbookreviews.com Torment was even better than Bloodlines, Lindsay is a wonderful writer. The second book picks up after Keira has died and the group is trying to deal with her death. During a battle Keira comes back from hell with Eligos and an army of demons. A whole new set of drama enfolds when she comes back. Both of the boys that Keira had previously seen are jealous of Keiras relationship with Eligos. There are new characters who show up and we learn more about the histor Review from busymomsbookreviews.com Torment was even better than Bloodlines, Lindsay is a wonderful writer. The second book picks up after Keira has died and the group is trying to deal with her death. During a battle Keira comes back from hell with Eligos and an army of demons. A whole new set of drama enfolds when she comes back. Both of the boys that Keira had previously seen are jealous of Keiras relationship with Eligos. There are new characters who show up and we learn more about the history of the magic and Keira. Once again the action scenes are vivid and believable. The romance in this installment has been stepped up and we get to see a softer side of Eligos. The writing is really good, it's not repetitive nor is it boring. The world building of hell in this book is amazing. The only thing that I did not like about this book was the cliffhanger; I hate cliffhangers especially when the next book is not out yet. Other than that I really enjoyed this book and as said as I will be to see the series end I can't wait for the next book to come out. ...more the writing style is very simple like the first one and the story is always so interesting. I was very curious to know what had happened to Kiera in hell, and it was the parts of the story I love the most. The feelings of the characters are predictable and frustating but we're so happy for them at the end! I was so surprised by Tyler, I didn't think he could change like that. We don't learn a lot about the fight but we undertand little by little what they want. I think it would be epic ! I can't the writing style is very simple like the first one and the story is always so interesting. I was very curious to know what had happened to Kiera in hell, and it was the parts of the story I love the most. The feelings of the characters are predictable and frustating but we're so happy for them at the end! I was so surprised by Tyler, I didn't think he could change like that. We don't learn a lot about the fight but we undertand little by little what they want. I think it would be epic ! I can't wait to learn more about the initiator. Mon avis complet My english review ...more Immediately read this after reading the first in this series, Bloodines. I really enjoyed this one a little more than the first. Mostly because I think in the first book I was trying to get used to the writing style. This book had an unexpected ending (ugh, and cliffhanger!) so I am anxiously waiting for the final book in this trilogy. This book takes me out of my comfort zone with actions from the characters that I don't necessarily agree with. (Won't specify since it would be a spoiler) It is Immediately read this after reading the first in this series, Bloodines. I really enjoyed this one a little more than the first. Mostly because I think in the first book I was trying to get used to the writing style. This book had an unexpected ending (ugh, and cliffhanger!) so I am anxiously waiting for the final book in this trilogy. This book takes me out of my comfort zone with actions from the characters that I don't necessarily agree with. (Won't specify since it would be a spoiler) It is also such a different perspective reading about characters based in Hell that don't play off as necessarily \"Evil\". ...more This is a million times better than the first Torment. Kiera comes back from hell and its more descriptive than last time. There are new characters some are better described than others. On the plus side she has done her usual thing.......... A cliffhanger.....and when I say a cliffhanger,I mean a cliffhanger. Aarrrggghhhhh I hate them..... I enjoyed this book much more than the first. Well worthy of the 5 star rating. This is much more in depth, and leave you with a killer cliffhanger. I just hope we don't have to wait too long for the finale. Mon avis : http://betweendandr.blogspot.com/2011... My english review : http://betweendandr.blogspot.com/2011... Gripping This book is truly fabulous, I imagined myself as Keira , with friends, ready to start the next instalment, can't wait", "Title": "Torment"},
