{"Comments": "\"This is our foxhole,<---M> and in foxholes</---M>, sometimes faith is all you've got.\" \"<+++>Shadow Catcher</+++>\" is an exciting military techno thriller. It was plot-driven rather than character-based but aren't most military thrillers? Some military thrillers I just can't get into because of an overabundance of military jargon and acronyms but this one had a nice balance of military and personal drama and author Hannibal explained the military subject matter in a way that was easy to understand. He was also able to d \"This is our foxhole, and in foxholes, sometimes faith is all you've got.\" \"<+++>Shadow Catcher</+++>\" is an exciting military techno thriller. It was plot-driven rather than character-based but aren't most military thrillers? Some military thrillers I just can't get into because of an overabundance of military jargon and acronyms but this one had a nice balance of military and personal drama and author Hannibal explained the military subject matter in a way that was easy to understand. He was also able to do this without foul language and extraneous sex scenes. A B-2 stealth bomber sitting on the bottom of the Persian Gulf, the Triple Seven Case team, a POW missing since 1988, the Shadow Catcher, Nick Baron and all his team including a frustrating newbie, espionage, a deadly mole burrowed in, plus much more are tied together in this rollicking but dangerous tale of rescue and intrigue. I will definitely be keeping my eyes open for more tales by author Hannibal. NOTE: I received a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review. ...more Exciting and thought-provoking! This is not your run-of-the-mill techno-thriller. Hannibal knows his topic from real-world experience as a stealth pilot, and he definitely makes the tech a character in the story. But there is much more to be found here than gee-whiz gadgets. Shadow Catcher is a mystery, a spy-vs-spy hunt for a mole that we can't be sure even exists. It is also psychological, following Nick Baron's struggle to come to grips with the PTSD that is fueling is self-doubt and paranoia Exciting and thought-provoking! This is not your run-of-the-mill techno-thriller. Hannibal knows his topic from real-world experience as a stealth pilot, and he definitely makes the tech a character in the story. But there is much more to be found here than gee-whiz gadgets. Shadow Catcher is a mystery, a spy-vs-spy hunt for a mole that we can't be sure even exists. It is also psychological, following Nick Baron's struggle to come to grips with the PTSD that is fueling is self-doubt and paranoia and driving a wedge between him and his wife. Fun and literary at the same time - this book is the whole package. ...<---F>more A surprisingly good read</---F>. I really enjoyed Shadow Catcher. The characters are more interesting than what you usually find in military fiction, and their relationships, or lack thereof, work well. Mr. Hannibal does a nice job with each character's backstory, so when the payoffs come, they are believable. Shadow Catcher is no The Hunt for Red October, but then again what is? Honestly, this book reminds me more of a vintage Clive Cussler story than the grittier thrillers we see today. It rolls at a A surprisingly good read. I really enjoyed Shadow Catcher. The characters are more interesting than what you usually find in military fiction, and their relationships, or lack thereof, work well. Mr. Hannibal does a nice job with each character's backstory, so when the payoffs come, they are believable. Shadow Catcher is no The Hunt for Red October, but then again what is? Honestly, this book reminds me more of a vintage Clive Cussler story than the grittier thrillers we see today. It rolls at a break-neck pace, and while predictable, give the reader more than his money's worth. Once it started rolling toward its conclusion, I found it VERY hard to put down. Four stars. Recommended. ...more A really good military thriller. The story was well-paced; it kept me turning pages if when i needed to stop reading and go to bed. There was some interesting, gee-whiz military technology involved which was thankfully kept in the background. Sometimes authors go into too much detail about the tech (<---B>Tom Clancy, I'm looking at you</---B>). I prefer to see authors putting more effort to develop the characters than the tech. I'll be on the look out for more books by Hannibal. The storyline of the main characters is interesting, giving you a background for what is happening. You get to know the characters and care about them throughout the story, laughing at their jokes and crying when they are in danger. Once the mission started it was non-stop, edge of your seat action. I read the 2nd half of the book in one sitting, shushing everyone who interrupted me. My kids kept asking what was going on in the book and I couldn't stop reading to tell them. Loved it! I will be short. This is a thriller of the Tom Clancy ilk. Had trouble putting it down. Creative, nicely written. Shadow Catcher\u2026 I think from reading the back of the book, I was expecting a more techno-military thriller along the lines of Clancy, but actually I think this book reads a tad more like Cussler. The two seemingly main characters in the series, Drake and Nick, seemed to have an Al Giordino and Dirk Pitt vibe. Although I think this is the second book in the series (never read anything else by the author), it was a bit unique in that it felt more like this was the tenth book in the series, like th Shadow Catcher\u2026 I think from reading the back of the book, I was expecting a more techno-military thriller along the lines of Clancy, but actually I think this book reads a tad more like Cussler. The two seemingly main characters in the series, Drake and Nick, seemed to have an Al Giordino and Dirk Pitt vibe. Although I think this is the second book in the series (never read anything else by the author), it was a bit unique in that it felt more like this was the tenth book in the series, like the characters already had a ton of history, and had been through the fire a few times. There are a few problems I had with this book, beginning with\u2026 empathy. Although the writing and story was okay, none of the characters really seemed to grab me. The only one I had a shred of empathy for really was Quinn. In many ways, I think the book sort of has three parts, which I\u2019ll try to disclose without spoilers \u2013 bomber retrieval, team building, and mission. The first \u2018act\u2019, if you will, just didn\u2019t seem to mean much for me when the story was said and done. While I suppose it functions as getting across some backstory and beginning with some action, I just don\u2019t feel like it was necessary for the plot. Again, it was fine, but when I finished the book, I just sort of thought back and wondered what that first third of the book had to do with the rest of the story. In a large way, this book just lacks\u2026. oomph, to me. The lack of interest I had in the characters probably had something to do with that, and then just the time it took to get to the main story. It just felt like something was missing, or was there but wasn\u2019t supposed to be there. Either way, something was off. But I liked it well enough. It feels very much like a second or third novel, with room for improvement, but beginning to get its foothold. Almost there, but not quite. So I\u2019ll rate it three stairs. Liked it. Didn\u2019t love it. Would be open to reading another book from the author, particularly a book after this one, whether in the same series or a different series doesn\u2019t matter so much. I\u2019d just be curious to see if he improves on this novel or not in the next one, if there is a next one. So! Three stars. ...more Dollycas\u2019s Thoughts I have Mr. <---A>James R. Hannibal</---A> to thank for a heck of a book hangover. I started reading this book and couldn\u2019t put it down. James R. Hannibal is a veteran combat pilot with Top Secret clearance from the U.S. government and he writes what he knows and he does it really well. The thing I really appreciated was this story is written for people like me and the military jargon was kept to a minimum. My husband enjoys Tom Clancy but his stories sometimes read like a military handbook Dollycas\u2019s Thoughts I have Mr. James R. Hannibal to thank for a heck of a book hangover. I started reading this book and couldn\u2019t put it down. James R. Hannibal is a veteran combat pilot with Top Secret clearance from the U.S. government and he writes what he knows and he does it really well. The thing I really appreciated was this story is written for people like me and the military jargon was kept to a minimum. My husband enjoys Tom Clancy but his stories sometimes read like a military handbook and fail to keep my interest. That is not the case at all with Shadow Catcher. The author had me from page one and held on tight to the very last word. The book starts out with a prologue from 1988 and then goes into the story in 2013 so you know these things are going to connect and with some very clever twists that is exactly what happens. Hannibal has created some very engaging characters. Their back stories are meshed into the plot effortlessly. This reader came to care about them very quickly. The story moves at a breakneck speed so don\u2019t pick it up thinking you are going to read just a chapter or two at a time. It just won\u2019t happen. ...more Nick Baron is fighting an emotional and mental demon of which he isn't completely aware. Married with a newborn son, Baron travels around the world on missions he can't talk about. On the other side of the world, Chinese General Zheng schemes to become the next minister and apprehend the latest and greatest war time technology. Airforce pilot David Novak went down and was captured by the Chinese over ten years ago. When he finally escapes, he finds a forgotten refuge and contacts a world that has Nick Baron is fighting an emotional and mental demon of which he isn't completely aware. Married with a newborn son, Baron travels around the world on missions he can't talk about. On the other side of the world, Chinese General Zheng schemes to become the next minister and apprehend the latest and greatest war time technology. Airforce pilot David Novak went down and was captured by the Chinese over ten years ago. When he finally escapes, he finds a forgotten refuge and contacts a world that has forgotten him. Some even believe him dead. Baron thinks Novak really does exist and is still alive. As he races to rescue the forgotten pilot, Baron finds himself up against General Zheng in an effort to get both Novak and his stealth plane off enemy soil and safely back to America. Time and again Hannibal proves you don't need copious bloody and gory scenes to write an edge of your seat thrill ride. The blood is minimal but the excitement is not. I always have a hard time putting his books and, and this one is no exception. ...more Wow, I never expected anything half this good. I had picked it based on it's title and didn't expect much, in fact I almost had dropped it after the first few chapters. I'm glad I didn't. The characters felt genuine, their baggage was reasonable, and their interactions with each other felt real. Nick was a great hero, he was neither perfect or crass like other characters in thrillers. This is the first book in a while (especially from a thriller) where I couldn't put it down, I was sympathetic and Wow, I never expected anything half this good. I had picked it based on it's title and didn't expect much, in fact I almost had dropped it after the first few chapters. I'm glad I didn't. The characters felt genuine, their baggage was reasonable, and their interactions with each other felt real. Nick was a great hero, he was neither perfect or crass like other characters in thrillers. This is the first book in a while (especially from a thriller) where I couldn't put it down, I was sympathetic and even sad towards some of the characters, and where my heart was literally beating out of my chest and I couldn't read the words fast enough. Overall I'm very impressed by the author. I'll admit the ending was pretty cheesy, but I'll let it slide. I'm defiitely going to read more books by him. ...more An excellent thriller of a story. It is so well written, that it will keep you guessing. Things aren't always as what they seem to be. Moment to moment, second to second, you will not want to stop turning the pages as this draws you into the excitement and surprises that only a covert military intelligence operation can present. A \"Must read!\" I received my first James Hannibal as a Goodreads giveaway and have been hooked ever since. These are tightly written page turning military thrillers. They are in the same genre as Dale Brown, Stephen Coonts, Tom Clancy etc. Great plot and a very good read. I look forward to seeing more from this author. Disclaimer: I won this book from Goodreads. I should have known, when an American pilot was shot down in the prologue, the characters would be in danger. I never expected they would be in that much peril. This book contained plenty of harrowing moments, but it included some comedy to relieve the pressure. I enjoyed the story and would read the continuing adventures of Triple Seven Chase. I won this on Goodreads and have just finished the book so am writing a review. Although I am not typically a reader of military type fiction, the story line intrigued me about a USAF pilot held captive in China for years. I don't want to give away the story, let's just say that good triumphs over evil with a large does of good ole US patriotism. An adult military/spy thriller. One I picked up at the library because I thought the cover looked like something my boys might look at (hey, a gal can try, right?). I was surprised how much I enjoyed it- totally plot based, but a page turner and a fun read. Compelling. Keeps your interest peeked until the very end. hope we get more of these The author was new to me when I found _Shadow Catcher_ sitting on the shelf in the thrillers section of the bookstore. It has a B-2 on the cover, the author flew B-2's & A-10's (my favorite plane), so I thought this would be something along the lines of a Dale Brown type of book. Oh, so wrong. The primary good guy characters are B-2 pilots who act like SEALs. Most of the book centers around them on the ground. Any flying is mundane, even when they have to enter super contested airspace of Ch The author was new to me when I found _Shadow Catcher_ sitting on the shelf in the thrillers section of the bookstore. It has a B-2 on the cover, the author flew B-2's & A-10's (my favorite plane), so I thought this would be something along the lines of a Dale Brown type of book. Oh, so wrong. The primary good guy characters are B-2 pilots who act like SEALs. Most of the book centers around them on the ground. Any flying is mundane, even when they have to enter super contested airspace of China to land a super secret STOL plane. Nope, just fly in, land and then talk about the weather. All of the characters exhibit one trait. The author attempts to lead the reader with red herrings, but isn't smooth. The dialogue either was wrong or playing to cliche. I almost stopped reading when one of the characters praises the Second Amendment for allowing him/her to have a gun in their house to defend themselves. Really. I always cringe when non-computer types attempt to use technical language to impress. It usually ends in groans. No programmer would be showing the images being scanned through, as that would eat cycles. It is what I'd expect to see on TV. Also clip != mag. In the end, it wasn't very good. Early Dale Brown or Larry Bond knew how to tell stories, have solid characters and also get the technical jargon correct (all things I look for). This book just came off as pilots wanting to be special operators. ...more Based on the tangibly militaristic yet visually arresting cover art, featuring a lone stealth bomber slicing through dusky skies, boxed in by rippling American and Chinese national flags, I immediately snatched up a copy of Shadow Catcher and headed for the checkout lanes as memories of air combat simulator games jolted through my mind. I assumed the technothriller would blend the unrealistically advanced warfare of the film Stealth with the politically illegal combat caper of the film Flight of Based on the tangibly militaristic yet visually arresting cover art, featuring a lone stealth bomber slicing through dusky skies, boxed in by rippling American and Chinese national flags, I immediately snatched up a copy of Shadow Catcher and headed for the checkout lanes as memories of air combat simulator games jolted through my mind. I assumed the technothriller would blend the unrealistically advanced warfare of the film Stealth with the politically illegal combat caper of the film Flight of the Intruder with maybe some of the cold war spy-heist of Firefox thrown in and was not surprised to get a chewy bite of air combat right out of the gate. I was, however, pleasantly strung along into the plot-driven tale with the treasure hunt-like recovery of a downed stealth bomber and the underwater action sequences surrounding this first act arc were every bit as muscular as I wanted them to be, but beautifully descriptive as well. James R. Hannibal\u2019s excellence is best exemplified in his action set-pieces and physical confrontations and throughout the story, these scenes are authentically technical and cinematic. Shadow Catcher is a simple and tasty read, unintimidating and satisfying, swiftly-paced and heavy-laden with third act twists and humorous one-liners. Hannibal\u2019s lightness in humorous passages shows range, and, whilst the humour wasn\u2019t my favorite element of the story, it pleasantly contrasted with a technothriller\u2019s naturally humorless tropes, rolling a crackling strike down the middle of entertainment\u2019s broad-guttered bowling alley with originality and a sense of cleanliness completely bereft in today\u2019s thriller market. Removing any and all traces of profanity from such a tale, Hannibal widened his demographics and I wish I had this book when I was much younger, and will quickly be loaning it to friends of mine in high school and junior high who loathe the idea of more wizards, vampires, and first kiss romances. Combat vet James R. Hannibal deserves a promotion for a skilled and saavy mission accomplished. ...more I have been a fan of the military techno thriller since Tom Clancy made that genre popular in mid-1980s. I am therefore often on the lookout for authors who craft engaging stories in that genre. James Hannibal was my most recent hope. I dove into \"Shadow Catcher\" with high hopes. Hannibal did his best to employ a layered story telling approach as he unfolded his story, but I have to admit that after about the first 1/4 of the book I was experiencing something akin to mental whiplash as the book j I have been a fan of the military techno thriller since Tom Clancy made that genre popular in mid-1980s. I am therefore often on the lookout for authors who craft engaging stories in that genre. James Hannibal was my most recent hope. I dove into \"Shadow Catcher\" with high hopes. Hannibal did his best to employ a layered story telling approach as he unfolded his story, but I have to admit that after about the first 1/4 of the book I was experiencing something akin to mental whiplash as the book jumped from one time period to another, including flashbacks and dreams, and I had a hard time figuring out where the author was going. At times it didn't feel like he knew. The book's storyline started to settle into a more settled rhythm about halfway through. The end, though, was completely melodramatic. It felt like one of those 1950s cowboy movies...you know, when the narrator ties everything up in a nice tight little bundle, there is cheering, and adoration from the saved town folk. Unsurprisingly, this book is entirely plot-driven. There is precious little character development, only enough to keep the plot rolling. The plot did not drag, and for that I am grateful. So, what's in the book? Oh, a high-tech black ops team that seems able to do everything from marine salvage to ground ops to piloting ultra-secret aircraft, etc. There are also assassins, a kidnapper, at least one sociopath, and a plan that could bring the world to the brink of a world war. Did I leave anything out? This was a fun read once I finally managed to clear the first 1/4 of the book, but in the end was only OK. As Amazon's rating system indicates, 3 stars means that \"It's okay\". That's what it was to me...okay. ...more One final mission for the retired operative and one plane, \"the shadow catcher\" by James R. Hannibal. One retired operative, leading a 10 man team into a impossible mission. One plane sitting at the bottom of the Persian gulf and one man sitting in a POW camp in the middle of a Chinese forest. With the impossible mission on nicks shoulders and ten men's life's as well. It's up to him not to mess up. The author uses three main elements in this story to pull the reader in with the characters of the One final mission for the retired operative and one plane, \"the shadow catcher\" by James R. Hannibal. One retired operative, leading a 10 man team into a impossible mission. One plane sitting at the bottom of the Persian gulf and one man sitting in a POW camp in the middle of a Chinese forest. With the impossible mission on nicks shoulders and ten men's life's as well. It's up to him not to mess up. The author uses three main elements in this story to pull the reader in with the characters of the story. He first uses suspense, when nick baron gets the offer to do one final job, he picks out his perfect team. Once they leave who knew who was gonna come back. Next uses POV of all the characters. He shows everyone's point of view on the story and their story and their goodbyes to their family. He lastly uses vivid description, Making it seem like you are there with the team in combat, on the greatest rescue mission ever. ...more Oh boy. What a waste of my time. While I appreciate the author's service to our country as a pilot, I can't approve of his writing skills. Sure, the story line was interesting, but dear God, the dialog and fight scenes were amateurish. I got as far as page 259 before my sensibility and realism overcame this book. The character \"Nick\" was a real *ss, who I literally wanted to climb into the book to massage his face. Sorry James Hannibal, but you are still trying to catch your shadow on this one. So, so thriller about a \"sub-rosa\" Spec Op group (Triple Seven)....Hannibal does a very good job of fleshing out characters, their strengths, flaws & failings which intrigued me enough to probably read another in the series...in this one the group rescues a down aviator from Red China & flushes out a mole operating for years within American intelligence...meh! In the grand tradition of Clancy, this is a new author I will follow! Excellent, classic thriller style read- engaging characters with issues- high-tech gadgetry and ripping action- this was a terrific read. If you like Dale Brown, Clancy, Cussler, etc...you have to check out James Hannibal's novels- I just ordered the next one in this series! Leave it to a military man to deliver an action-packed book full of high-tech gadgets and juicy authentic details about the ops. This is the first book I've read by James R. Hannibal and it will not be my last. I'm looking forward to reading what assignment Triple Seven Chase has to accomplish next! This is the first book I've read by Mr. Hannibal, and it won't be the last. The writing is solid, the characters believable, and the p lot interesting. with more writing practice, Mr. Hannibal could easily join the ranks of Tom Clancy. While the characters could have used more development, this still is a good, strong story. I'll be anxious to follow this author's career. I've got to say, I loved this book! It's like Tom Clancy meets Clive Cussler and they start a fight outside a Chinese biker bar. It is a blast! Highly recommended! Nick Baron will be giving Dirk Pitt a run for his money!<---C>James R. Hannibal</---C>", "Title": "Shadow Catcher"},
