{"Comments": "<+++>In Search of Captain Zero: A Surfer's Road Trip beyond the End of the Road</+++>If they decided to hand out prizes for the individual who bought the most copies of this book,<---M> I would win</---M>, hands down. For many years, I prodded every single one of my friends, relatives, Romans, and countrymen, to read this, and if they didn\u2019t start reading it that very instant, I managed to foist my copy on them, and of course bought another, and the whole cycle started over. Weisbecker captures something so compelling throughout this book, and being broken down in an end of the road Central If they decided to hand out prizes for the individual who bought the most copies of this book, I would win, hands down. For many years, I prodded every single one of my friends, relatives, Romans, and countrymen, to read this, and if they didn\u2019t start reading it that very instant, I managed to foist my copy on them, and of course bought another, and the whole cycle started over. Weisbecker captures something so compelling throughout this book, and being broken down in an end of the road Central American town becomes emblematic for so much else- I can\u2019t say enough about it.<---F> I've reread it, again</---F>. Simply a wonderful book. ...more As a recent convert to the love of surfing, I practically devoured this book for it's \" On the Road \" with a surfing twist story. It was a great memoir with great surf descriptions, I could practically feel the waves under me as I read some of his prose. For those who don't surf, it's as close as you can get without actually getting wet and for those that do surf and are as landlocked as I am . . . it's the next best thing. I actually spent a week listening to this audio book. It was quite the road trip. I enjoyed the scenery, the places the author visited, and the people he met along the way. I didn't understand some of what happened to his friend. I liked the information on surfing and the beach life. I always wondered how it felt to \"hang ten\". I had a good time listening to the story, narrated by Joe Barrett. If I had not been looking for books narrated by Joe, I would probably never have come across this book. In the book \"In Search of Captain Zero\",Weisbecker uses characterization, alliteration and setting to turn this book into a page turner. The story is about Weisbecker's search for lost friend who he believes is in Mexico surfing. The whole story is about his journey to look for his friend and the surf, drug trafficking and other exciting events they shared together. His use of characterization is really important to this story's development because it gives the read an idea of what the people In the book \"In Search of Captain Zero\",Weisbecker uses characterization, alliteration and setting to turn this book into a page turner. The story is about Weisbecker's search for lost friend who he believes is in Mexico surfing. The whole story is about his journey to look for his friend and the surf, drug trafficking and other exciting events they shared together. His use of characterization is really important to this story's development because it gives the read an idea of what the people look like and act. For example on page 73 he describes his friend Julio as \"...swarthy complexion sunburnt to fervid red-black, unkempt sholder-lenght hair and feral gleam, he veritably exudes insolence and intimidation.\" This quote is describing Julio as a intimidating person which foreshadows the probability that the author will encounter and intimidating event with Julio which entices the reader to read on. Also, his use of alliteration creates a smooth, rhythmical feel to his writing which helps the reader to keep reading. For example on page 88 he says \"With the ghostly gloaming of first light...\" This style of writing is very effective because it appeals to the readers sense of rhythm and poetry affection which some people may like and some others may not. Lastly, the use as Mexico as the setting creates an outlaw feeling to the story because if you know about Mexico, it's home to a lot of drug and gang violence. For example, throughout the book he mentions the \"banditos\" in the southern parts of Mexico and describes their horrible ways of kidnapping people. This creates suspense through-out the book because there is always the knowing that things can go bad at any moment. This story was a page turner for me, his use of all these devices creates a really good story. However if you are not a surfer or have a relation with the ocean, this book could be very boring to you. The reason for this is because there is a lot of surf talk and references throughout the book which some people might not understand thus not having the same effect on the reader. ...more In Search of Captain Zero by <---A>Allan Weisbecker</---A> is a true story about Allan and his venture of finding his best friend Christopher. Before he leaves he sells his house and takes his dog and his truck with a camper he calls \u201cLa Casita\u201d through Mexico and Central America. His story is told from his perspective and uses a lot of surf slang. He spends a lot of time surfing while on the way to Costa Rica. But his trip isn\u2019t all smooth sailing though. His truck breaks down multiple times and ends up ha In Search of Captain Zero by Allan Weisbecker is a true story about Allan and his venture of finding his best friend Christopher. Before he leaves he sells his house and takes his dog and his truck with a camper he calls \u201cLa Casita\u201d through Mexico and Central America. His story is told from his perspective and uses a lot of surf slang. He spends a lot of time surfing while on the way to Costa Rica. But his trip isn\u2019t all smooth sailing though. His truck breaks down multiple times and ends up having to leave it and rely on pubic transportation and other methods of travel. This story shows a different view of our discussion question. Allan wasn\u2019t going on a road trip through Mexico and Central America for vacation, he was going to find his friend. He easily could have just taken a plane to find his friend. Does a road trip always have to be fun? I thought that the story was really interesting because you don\u2019t really know what is going to happen next, and it\u2019s not to wordy like most books, it\u2019s very straight forward. I enjoyed this book because there are many suspenseful parts and keeps me wondering what will happen next. The beginning was a little slow but once you get a few chapters in it starts getting better. I don\u2019t think this book is for everyone though, I can see some people getting bored with it during the parts when he is talking about surfing because they can\u2019t relate. I would recommend this book to someone who likes adventures books. ...more Allan C. Weisbecker\u2019s memoir In Search Of Captain Zero is the latest addition to my surfer\u2019s library. For reasons that didn\u2019t become clear to me until the very end of the book, Weisbecker is keen, almost desperate, to relocate an old friend and former drug-running partner who\u2019s disappeared in South America. Weisbecker throws his surfboards into a camper, calls his dog and drives down the west coast right into Costa Rica looking for his friend, catching more than a few bitchin' waves en route. The Allan C. Weisbecker\u2019s memoir In Search Of Captain Zero is the latest addition to my surfer\u2019s library. For reasons that didn\u2019t become clear to me until the very end of the book, Weisbecker is keen, almost desperate, to relocate an old friend and former drug-running partner who\u2019s disappeared in South America. Weisbecker throws his surfboards into a camper, calls his dog and drives down the west coast right into Costa Rica looking for his friend, catching more than a few bitchin' waves en route. The bald facts of the journey make for compelling reading, but while Weisbecker\u2019s capital-A \u201cAlpha\u201d male bona fides provide the impetus for the trip (<---B>and the book</---B>), they too frequently conjure a seriously blinkered point of view. Any noob who spends a little time among drunks, druggies, religious fanatics and/or surfers will come away telling you the conversation cycles back to the arcane again and again, and that any insight discernible to outsiders is gleaned with great difficulty. Weisbecker does get to the insight, but for this reader, who has neither surfed nor run drugs, there was a fair bit of arcana to wade through. I rank Captain Zero well above Daniel Duane\u2019s Caught Inside , but decidedly below Thad Ziolkowski's On A Wave , which is, for me, the star to shoot for. ...more I wish I could review books by genres. I actually wish I could review everything by genre. When someone asks me my favorite burrito place my first question in response is always \"what sort of burrito?\" I mean, do you want greasy authentic burrito, or are you talking california style grilled chicken and black beans on a wheat job. I'm not implying one is better than the other, just that they are very different things. Depends on what you are in the mood for. Captain Zero could easily get 5 stars in I wish I could review books by genres. I actually wish I could review everything by genre. When someone asks me my favorite burrito place my first question in response is always \"what sort of burrito?\" I mean, do you want greasy authentic burrito, or are you talking california style grilled chicken and black beans on a wheat job. I'm not implying one is better than the other, just that they are very different things. Depends on what you are in the mood for. Captain Zero could easily get 5 stars in its genre which is light adventure stories that are easy to read. It's well written, its about topics that interest me (travel and surfing) and it reads really quickly smoothly. Easy book to pick up and stick with until its done, which is exactly what I've done these last 3 days. Now, if I was going to grade it on a universal literature scale I would have a hard time giving it even 3 stars. I mean I think I gave Fountainhead three stars and its a super classic. Wait, Fountainhead sucked. I should have given it 1 star, bad example......Anyways, you get the point. In the end I'm saying 4 stars and highly enjoyable. Now maybe I should spend 500 words examining why I feel it necessary to justify reading pop literature to the internet......but I won't. I'm a book snob. There I said it. ...more In Search of Captain Zero is Allan C Weisbecker 's second novel, and a considerably different work from the first gonzo/physics/pot smuggling affair, Cosmic Banditos . He used to be an Internet sensation. Back in 1989 (ish) he wrote his first novel - Cosmic Banditos - a riotous tale of quantum physics and marijuana smuggling. It didn\u2019t sell in either the US or the UK and, in a fit of generosity, the author sent all of his copies to the soldiers on active duty in the first Gulf War. Slowly but surel In Search of Captain Zero is Allan C Weisbecker 's second novel, and a considerably different work from the first gonzo/physics/pot smuggling affair, Cosmic Banditos . He used to be an Internet sensation. Back in 1989 (ish) he wrote his first novel - Cosmic Banditos - a riotous tale of quantum physics and marijuana smuggling. It didn\u2019t sell in either the US or the UK and, in a fit of generosity, the author sent all of his copies to the soldiers on active duty in the first Gulf War. Slowly but surely it got read, got passed around and eventually turned into a cult classic. Here in the UK it hit the remainder book shops and got picked up by students and the like who again read it and passed it round, turning it into a cult here as well. At the same time, as legend had it, he disappeared, apparently disillusioned with the lack of success of his novel, leaving no way to be contacted to discuss reprints when they suddenly became required. This left a whole raft of readers who had read the book once, lent it to someone and never seen it again; desperate to find another copy. So desperate in fact that copies were going for stupid sums on ebay and some people had actually converted the entire text of the novel to HTML. Like The KLF's The Manual or Albert Hoffman 's My Problem Child it was easier to get hold of an A4 printout than a real copy of the book. The story of In Search of Captain Zero is inextricably linked to the mythology that had built up around Weisbecker. It is written as an autobiography, filling in the missing years from the original failure of Cosmic Banditos to his return and the publication of this novel. It was with a real sense of expectation that I opened Captain Zero. I\u2019d read Cosmic Banditos in 1991, one of the many brief owners of the few copies that circulated, and again upon its republication in 2001 so I was pretty excited to have his new book in my hand\u2026. In fact my enjoyment of Cosmic Banditos tainted my first attempt at reading it. When I first got it I opened it up, read the first chapter and thought \u201cwhat a bust.\u201d It was nothing like the previous book. All serious and worthy and deep in mid life crisis. No pot smuggling, no physics; even the dog wasn\u2019t funny. So I put it back on the shelf and went on to something else. It was only when a good few years had passed and I was scouring the shelves for something that I hadn\u2019t read that I decided that I should try it again. So with a fresh mind, not expecting pot smuggling or quantum physics or Mexican gangsters or comedy dogs, I set about reading Captain Zero properly\u2026 It begins as a story of a man in crisis. Written in a wholly believable first person the narrator tells of his failed novel and many failed relationships and pines for his life as a young man in the 60s when surfing was king and he was in on the ground floor. Mid-life crisis has finally hit and for him the sports car and younger woman turns out to be instead a mad quest down the coastline of Mexico in a ramshackle motor home looking for a long lost friend (Christopher Connor, the Captain Zero of the title) last heard of surfing the waves somewhere down South. As the journey develops so does the narrative - slowly we are introduced to 3 strands that will remain throughout the book. The story of the road trip itself is gloriously detailed, providing a loving travelogue of the surf routes around the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific coast of Central America intertwined with a detective story as he seeks out Christopher. At the same time we are treated to reminiscences of his youth with Christopher, spent living the high life as professional surf dudes and part time pot smugglers. These are wickedly funny stories, laugh out loud tales of stupid boat trips and ridiculous plans hatched in a fug of marijuana smoke. But. These two strands play supporting roles to the real meat of the book. This is really a book about surfing. About loving to surf more than anything else. About how surfing makes you feel. About the long board versus the short board. About Johnny-come-latelies versus the live-to-surfs. About sport versus lifestyle. I can\u2019t really let you into much of the plot without ruining the story, but suffice to say that there are Mexican gangsters, there is pot smuggling and yes, the dog does turn out to be funny. It surpasses Cosmic Banditos with ease, which is no mean feat. This is an exquisite book. It genuinely put me off reading anything else for a while. It was really that good. It was one of those books that I found myself making time to read - not because of a page turning plot but because the insight into Allan\u2019s character and why of life is so all encompassing, so beautifully written and most importantly so welcoming that I did not want to leave the world that the book created. It\u2019s in turns hilarious, tragic, moving and empowering; yet it\u2019s also completely daft and unreal. I highly recommend you read this. I also recommend you read Cosmic Banditos , but it might be wise to steer clear of Can't You Get Along With Anyone ...more When a certain kind of friend (intelligent and cool with her politics and philosophy in line with your own, you know the type) recommends a book to you you are at once forced to purchase the book and to then cower in fear because maybe you're not ready or maybe you're going to let your friend down with your reaction to the book etc., etc., and so the book sits unread on your shelf collecting dust looking at you as you select other newer books while it waits like a burden guilting you like an unc When a certain kind of friend (intelligent and cool with her politics and philosophy in line with your own, you know the type) recommends a book to you you are at once forced to purchase the book and to then cower in fear because maybe you're not ready or maybe you're going to let your friend down with your reaction to the book etc., etc., and so the book sits unread on your shelf collecting dust looking at you as you select other newer books while it waits like a burden guilting you like an uncalled mother until you eventually cave. I know this happens to me. And In Search of Captain Zero (along with Cosmic Banditos before it) is, for me, one of these books. Of course now, having finished it a few minutes ago, I don't know why I ever waited (after all, that certain kind of friend has your best interests in mind). Weisbecker's second book employs what I perceived to be a slow burn, gradually building up energy and emotion like the waves he so meticulously describes. Which is good, because my experience with the first couple chapters felt like Weisbecker was teaching me how to read his book. He employs a cadence and syntax that (coming immediately off of Franzen and DeLillo) took some time to get right in my head. This works since the first few chapters are really only setting you up for what's to come and can survive being read poorly. Here, Weisbecker (like Kerouac and Burroughs and Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid) shares his experiences going south in a quest to find something he's not sure is there, and the \"something\" in question is his surfing friend/partner in crime Christopher (the type of friend who has a life-long impact on you, who recommends really good books which you might put off reading for a few years). As the memoir progresses it becomes evident that Weisbecker is jumping temporal lines, shifting between present travels through Central America and past drug-smuggling adventures (awfully similar to those described in Cosmic Banditos). What also becomes evident is that Weisbecker is also trying to resurrect his own damaged relationship with Big Blue (the ocean) and in so doing (this sounds so fucking stupid) find himself again. Which, along with Christopher, he does. The tragic turn takes the form of Christopher's abysmal turn to hard drugs and a less-than-perfect ending for these two characters who you come to really care about. I think what I liked best about this book was the sense that Weisbecker had a lot more to tell than he did, that, even as a memoirist, he was guarding information that a gossip-inclined reader could describe as juicy. This reservation, naturally, only makes you want to read more, and I plan to tackle his next book a little bit sooner than the last. Read this book and listen to your friends when they tell you things, they know better than you do. ...more First let me say that I have never surfed, and other than watching Point Break, am ignorant of surfing culture. Likewise, I have never journeyed south of the border, and I certainly never was an international drug smuggler (though I have been known to inhale). That said, Mr. Weisbecker's writing put me right there, and made me feel that I was participating in these adventures. He vividly and viscerally described surfing to the point that I felt the rush, and almost tasted salt water. His recreat First let me say that I have never surfed, and other than watching Point Break, am ignorant of surfing culture. Likewise, I have never journeyed south of the border, and I certainly never was an international drug smuggler (though I have been known to inhale). That said, Mr. Weisbecker's writing put me right there, and made me feel that I was participating in these adventures. He vividly and viscerally described surfing to the point that I felt the rush, and almost tasted salt water. His recreation of a sense of place when describing Mexico and Central America reminded me of Mark Twain's best travel writing. And his recollections of his outrageous adventures in his youthful bandito smuggling days made me cry from laughing.(Even if these tales are exaggerated, as well they may be, only someone who knows what he is talking about could exaggerate so effectively.) Beyond all the surfing, adventuring on the edge, and bandito hilarity, this book has a strong undercurrent of melancholy, a deep sadness that adds depth and realism to this rollicking adventure. Someone has complained that this book is just about a self-indulgent mid-life crisis. The author himself has admitted as much in his book. Yet the emotions and circumstances that bring a man to what we have chosen to call \"mid-life crisis\" are real, and nearly universal. Weibecker's genius is in the brutal honesty in which he communicates his own ambiguous emotional turmoil. Past a certain age, we all must find a way to live with the choices that we have made, and the bridges that we have burned, and that, at its core, is the heart of this book. In Search of Captain Zero is engrossing, invigorating, hilarious, and sad. It is a swift read, and I was sorry when it was over. All in all, it is more than the sum of its parts, and I highly recommend it. ...more 3 and 1/2 stars. This is a book that I've had on my bookshelf forever, which I picked up because I have a fascination with surfing. I love the idea of it, of standing up on a board and letting a wave carry you. I can imagine the joy of it, can imagine finding what Weisbecker describes as The Glide. (I've only tried it once on a water logged board and it was miserable just trying to just keep the nose of the board above water.) This book begins with Weisbecker dropping everything and abandoning h 3 and 1/2 stars. This is a book that I've had on my bookshelf forever, which I picked up because I have a fascination with surfing. I love the idea of it, of standing up on a board and letting a wave carry you. I can imagine the joy of it, can imagine finding what Weisbecker describes as The Glide. (I've only tried it once on a water logged board and it was miserable just trying to just keep the nose of the board above water.) This book begins with Weisbecker dropping everything and abandoning his home and possessions, except for his surfboards, truck, and dog, and heading south into Mexico. The journey is in part to return to the true surfing life, and in part to find his old friend Christopher, a.k.a. Captain Zero. Weisbecker is a good writer and he describes wave riding and his travels in Mexico and Central America well enough to make them easy to visualize. His past adventures, including marijuana running, with Christopher are also entertaining and sometimes hilarious. But as much as I love the idea of the surf experience on the water, I hate the posturing machismo that comes with it, the tendency toward a feeling of ownership over waves (perhaps understandable on crowded waters) and occasional assholery of some dudes. There's also a general attitude toward women of them not being real surfers and only being as something to F*ck that I hate. All of that comes out at points in Weisbecker's interaction with other surfers, as well as his own attitude of elitism. Not to mention, his occasional tendency to be patronizing (or \"how cute\") in tone when describing the cultures and people he meets down south (not always, but enough for me to notice). It was a good read and I wasn't bored, but it's not a book I'm enamored with. ...more In Search of Captain Zero by Allan Weisbecker is a very suspenseful book that has problems and fun in every chapter. Written in parts, Weisbecker writes about his journey to Central America in search of Captain Zero, his best friend. Thinking that his journey was going to be a quick and safe one, he didn't expect the many twist and turns that confronted him. From there, Weisbecker was forced to fight for his own safety and quickly find his best friend. The one and only character in this book tha In Search of Captain Zero by Allan Weisbecker is a very suspenseful book that has problems and fun in every chapter. Written in parts, Weisbecker writes about his journey to Central America in search of Captain Zero, his best friend. Thinking that his journey was going to be a quick and safe one, he didn't expect the many twist and turns that confronted him. From there, Weisbecker was forced to fight for his own safety and quickly find his best friend. The one and only character in this book that connected with me in some way was Weisbecker. His brave and cunning personality perfectly fit mines and if you're a brave and outgoing person then Weisbecker will connect with you perfectly. My connection with Weisbecker helped me understood the book more and made the reading more smoothing. As Weisbecker lost his only transportation, a trailer called La Casita, Weisbecker had to use his brain and calm self to get himself out of trouble. Weisbecker just connects with me in so many ways. I am a type of person that never panics when in a weird situation, very much like Weisbecker. No matter what, you read this book, you WILL connect with Weisbecker in one way or another. The thing that made the reading easy was, like I said, my connection with the main character. Connecting with him helped me picture myself in every situation he was in. Another thing that made it easy to read was the book being written in parts. Each part represented another part of North America. So whenever I was confused with what the setting was, I remembered that for example, this part was set in Central America. Overall, I would recommend this book to everyone and anyone who likes to read about adventure and roadtrips. Nonetheless, I believe that anyone would like this book. ...more This is what I tried to read when Twilight turned out to be horrible and this ended up being pretty bad too. It is the non-fiction account of the author\u2019s journey from New York to Puerto Viejo, Costa Rica in his truck (he\u2019s looking for a friend he hasn\u2019t heard from in a while). The problem is that he surfs along the way and can\u2019t stop saying how great he is. So there are endless and mind numbing descriptions of waves and how incredibly great and important surfing is. But once he gets out of Mexi This is what I tried to read when Twilight turned out to be horrible and this ended up being pretty bad too. It is the non-fiction account of the author\u2019s journey from New York to Puerto Viejo, Costa Rica in his truck (he\u2019s looking for a friend he hasn\u2019t heard from in a while). The problem is that he surfs along the way and can\u2019t stop saying how great he is. So there are endless and mind numbing descriptions of waves and how incredibly great and important surfing is. But once he gets out of Mexico it picks up and gets a little better. I mostly wanted to read it to see what he wrote about Costa Rica. Also, this book has the same problem a lot of travel books in Latin America have, which is they take a journey that countless college backpackers take and exaggerate it to the point where it is a life and death struggle in the jungle where no white man has ever been before. Or the authors will just say stuff that isn\u2019t true about where they are and the editor never bothered to fact check. Also, he really hates on Honduras in the book (for the page and a half that he devotes to it). ...more 2008/09/07: I'm almost 1/4 done, and so far it is holding up to the numerous recommendations to read it that I've been given over the last couple years. Some of the descriptions are a little too-flowery and lengthy for my taste, but not too much. It still reads pretty fast and interestingly. Woven into the plot, characters, observances, commentaries and conclusions, there is also a good amount of history of surfing, its lifestlye, and the technicalities of surfing - so that's pretty cool, too. 2008 2008/09/07: I'm almost 1/4 done, and so far it is holding up to the numerous recommendations to read it that I've been given over the last couple years. Some of the descriptions are a little too-flowery and lengthy for my taste, but not too much. It still reads pretty fast and interestingly. Woven into the plot, characters, observances, commentaries and conclusions, there is also a good amount of history of surfing, its lifestlye, and the technicalities of surfing - so that's pretty cool, too. 2008/09/13: Wow, 50 pages this morning, only 50 pages left to read. I haven't flown through a book this fast in a looong time. Not saying it is such an amazing book, but it is an easy, fun, intriguing read. First time, in many many books, that I've had to make myself put a book down, to get other stuff done. 2008/09/14: Done. As I approached the ending, I knew that it had to either be a sad or happy ending. It wasn't the one I would have preferred. But, now, if the book is accurate in its stories and descriptions, I now better understand this Captain Zero, who I met for about 10 seconds in Puerto Viejo in Dec. 2006 ...more This was the perfect book for me at this point in my life. Having been thrust into a world of no responsibilities, I found myself somewhat lost and confused as to what I should do. Luckily, the world is what it is and I embraced it. Learning to surf and to take life as what is in front of me, right now, has opened my eyes to the miracle of everything and anything. Life is an adventure. This book only reaffirmed that notion. \"The only constant is change\"; \"anything can happen\"; \"you never no whats a This was the perfect book for me at this point in my life. Having been thrust into a world of no responsibilities, I found myself somewhat lost and confused as to what I should do. Luckily, the world is what it is and I embraced it. Learning to surf and to take life as what is in front of me, right now, has opened my eyes to the miracle of everything and anything. Life is an adventure. This book only reaffirmed that notion. \"The only constant is change\"; \"anything can happen\"; \"you never no whats around the next corner\"; all those cliches are there. But that is life, real life. Being born 10 years after 1970, I can only imagine the golden age of surfing and drugs, but my dad was there and his stories sound so similar to this book. It takes someone who surfs to truly understand the concept of waveriding mechanics and physics that are put forth in the book, but they are explained enough and with an almost mysterious air that the non-surfer reading can still understand and take joy along with the writer. This is Weisbecker's story. If it inspires you or not, go and find your own adventure ...more Mr. Weisbecker is a strange fellow indeed. A man's man if ever there was one. This is a tale of his trip down the entirety of the American continent in search of, what else, perfect waves and his long lost buddy. Accompanying him on this journey is none other than his faithful dog Shiner, who is about as good a dog as ever was. Part Heart of Darkness, part Endless Summer, this novel transcends the act of surfing and ends much like Melville's Moby Dick - empty, yet wholly real. This guy has lived Mr. Weisbecker is a strange fellow indeed. A man's man if ever there was one. This is a tale of his trip down the entirety of the American continent in search of, what else, perfect waves and his long lost buddy. Accompanying him on this journey is none other than his faithful dog Shiner, who is about as good a dog as ever was. Part Heart of Darkness, part Endless Summer, this novel transcends the act of surfing and ends much like Melville's Moby Dick - empty, yet wholly real. This guy has lived an unbelievable life and the book is worth reading just for that alone. An avid surfer who turned to drug smuggling to fund his adventures, who made a fortune and the squandered it, and then sold a screen play that became the basis for Miami Vice. All that, and the novel leaves him living still in his camper. With his dog. In the end its a novel about searching and about accepting that there likely will be no answers at the end of that search. And more than that its about finding tranquility in spite the ambiguity. ...more To make this drink: 1 oz Hunter S. Thompson (preferred gonzo style) 2 oz Joseph Conrad (either/or Lord Jim & Heart of Darkness) 1/2 oz Jack Kerouac 1 oz Jimmy Buffet lyrics Shake well with ice and pour into a highball glass. Sip and enjoy. This book was so enjoyable for a myriad or reasons. The author is a phenomenal writer and keeps the pages turning. If you are into \"journey\" stories this one is up there with any of the best. The author constantly flatters Conrad with blatant imitations to \"He To make this drink: 1 oz Hunter S. Thompson (preferred gonzo style) 2 oz Joseph Conrad (either/or Lord Jim & Heart of Darkness) 1/2 oz Jack Kerouac 1 oz Jimmy Buffet lyrics Shake well with ice and pour into a highball glass. Sip and enjoy. This book was so enjoyable for a myriad or reasons. The author is a phenomenal writer and keeps the pages turning. If you are into \"journey\" stories this one is up there with any of the best. The author constantly flatters Conrad with blatant imitations to \"Heart of Darkness\" but he knows this and openly ackowledges such. I have never surfed before and this book even further inspires me to buy a board and jump on next time I am near the beach. I am a sucker for these types of books...the ones that take you on a journey--leading you down a rarely trodden path. It also helps when the author is a seasoned, experienced writer who can lead you on that journey toward self-redemption. I have to thank a good friend (who does surf!!) for loaning the book to me! ...more Almost every surfer I know has recommended this, so I finally read it. I've never really found a surf book I liked, but this was closest. I'm not sure if the author and I would have been surf buddies (he's 50, a longboarder, picks fights, and used to run drugs), but he's definitely a great story-teller. And his adventures traveling from Mexico to Costa Rica are a trip. He does a great job weaving in stories from his younger days, stories of his pot smuggling days, and stories of his journey to m Almost every surfer I know has recommended this, so I finally read it. I've never really found a surf book I liked, but this was closest. I'm not sure if the author and I would have been surf buddies (he's 50, a longboarder, picks fights, and used to run drugs), but he's definitely a great story-teller. And his adventures traveling from Mexico to Costa Rica are a trip. He does a great job weaving in stories from his younger days, stories of his pot smuggling days, and stories of his journey to make a very good beach read. I loved hearing the stories of all the people he meets - half the expats down south are 'on the run' - and have great stories :) Aside from the good storytelling I felt there was depressing undertone to the book, as if the author was never quite satisfied with his life regardless of what happened to him. This makes sense I suppose given he's kinda having a midlife crisis - but it didn't amp me up with enthusiasm for life. But on the positive side, it did gave me a strong thirst to explore central america soon - and to go surfing :) ...more Surfing, drug-running, high seas adventure. I'f you've never been into surfing, this book probably won't interest you much. The quality of the writing is a bit patchy - downright awful at the beginning. But there are depictions of some very dangerous situations that have a lot of punch, suspence, and humor. SPOILER ALERT: The episode about an ocean rescue during a major storm is a highlight. The narator's arrogance and casual attitude undergo a radical change when reality finally hits and his cr Surfing, drug-running, high seas adventure. I'f you've never been into surfing, this book probably won't interest you much. The quality of the writing is a bit patchy - downright awful at the beginning. But there are depictions of some very dangerous situations that have a lot of punch, suspence, and humor. SPOILER ALERT: The episode about an ocean rescue during a major storm is a highlight. The narator's arrogance and casual attitude undergo a radical change when reality finally hits and his creaky ship loaded with contraband comes apart after being hit by an enormous rogue wave. When the smugglers are dry and safe after a miraculous rescue, the scruffy narrator turns to the rescue ship's old-school first mate and says: \"I felt blessed, I said, that I hadn't come to a watery end. To which the salt levelly replied, 'You were in no real danger.' ... 'The man who was born to hang,' he said, 'need not fear the water.'\" ...more I couldn't get into this book and stopped reading part way through. Don't think I'll get back to it. Amazing book, really enjoyed it. You don't have to be a surfer to enjoy \"In Search of Captain Zero.\" Think as if you are watching \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" and you don't have to be a drug addict to enjoy the movie. By all means, I'm not a surfer, but I like watching people taking barrels, catching waves and wiping out. The book is not all about surfing because that would make a boring read, but it's about going on a surf trip and meeting all kinds of people along the coast. The action thickens where the characters gets i You don't have to be a surfer to enjoy \"In Search of Captain Zero.\" Think as if you are watching \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" and you don't have to be a drug addict to enjoy the movie. By all means, I'm not a surfer, but I like watching people taking barrels, catching waves and wiping out. The book is not all about surfing because that would make a boring read, but it's about going on a surf trip and meeting all kinds of people along the coast. The action thickens where the characters gets into drug trafficking and becomes addicts themselves. Before reading this book, I was familiar with technique of surfing because my friends and family surfs. They also wig out when they haven't been in the ocean for a while. The book was easy for me to get into and I was stoked that it wasn't all about catching another wave. It was a good adventure on a surf trip. ...more This book is a heartfelt memoir, filled with enough casual explanations of various surf spots and techniques for a non-surfer to enjoy the deep and detailed enjoyment of the author for the sport (hobby? lifestyle?). In the author's trip from Montauk Point in Long Island down to the West Coast and then into Central America, he shows us the sometimes forced gaiety of the surfing community, the clash of practicalities with the surfer community, his own love of surfing, and he even delves a bit into This book is a heartfelt memoir, filled with enough casual explanations of various surf spots and techniques for a non-surfer to enjoy the deep and detailed enjoyment of the author for the sport (hobby? lifestyle?). In the author's trip from Montauk Point in Long Island down to the West Coast and then into Central America, he shows us the sometimes forced gaiety of the surfing community, the clash of practicalities with the surfer community, his own love of surfing, and he even delves a bit into the conflict between \"living\" expressed as a sort of hedonism and \"life\" with it's goals and obligations that has filled all the joins of our society with so much angst. He is a sympathetic narrator, and there's a satisfying finality to the end. Well worth the read. ...more I have recommended this book countless times to travelers and friends alike in the past number of years. Allan Weisbecker tells the autobiographical tale of his search for an old friend who has disappeared without warning, leaving his whole life behind in the US. With a trailer full of supplies, his faithful dog and an array of surfboards, A.C. embarks on his midlife odyssey from Montuak, New York and through Central America in search of his lost companion. Weisbecker's take on life and loss coupl I have recommended this book countless times to travelers and friends alike in the past number of years. Allan Weisbecker tells the autobiographical tale of his search for an old friend who has disappeared without warning, leaving his whole life behind in the US. With a trailer full of supplies, his faithful dog and an array of surfboards, A.C. embarks on his midlife odyssey from Montuak, New York and through Central America in search of his lost companion. Weisbecker's take on life and loss coupled with his beautiful descriptions of people, places and especially the ocean, make for an incredibly readable book that pushed me to improve my life in my own way...and to get into the ocean as much as humanly possible. A beautiful book. ...more I read this book several years ago and enjoyed it. I like the travel log style of writing and the stories of surf spots in central America. The surfing culture has always interested me ever since the mid 60's. Maybe growing up listening to Jan&Dean or the Beach Boys has had something to do with it. I remember going to the \"cult movie\" Endless Summer at the Playboy Theater in the summer of 1967. This past summer, 2012 I was in New Buffalo, Mich. and saw a surf shop that advertised Lake Michig I read this book several years ago and enjoyed it. I like the travel log style of writing and the stories of surf spots in central America. The surfing culture has always interested me ever since the mid 60's. Maybe growing up listening to Jan&Dean or the Beach Boys has had something to do with it. I remember going to the \"cult movie\" Endless Summer at the Playboy Theater in the summer of 1967. This past summer, 2012 I was in New Buffalo, Mich. and saw a surf shop that advertised Lake Michigan as \"the third coast\" The surf culture has come a long way since 1967. The book brought back all those youthful longings! The author's discription of that last long ride on a disappearing wall of ocean energy was cool. Good read! ...more I usually don't read memoirs or autobiographies so this was the first in a genre that I am currently exploring. My dad is an avid surfer and lent me the book not for that fact, since I have really no interest or experience with the sport, but because he thought I would enjoy the accounts of drug smuggling that the author was involved in that acted as a means to finance his surfing excursions. I thoroughly enjoyed reading about his adventures in South America and shady dealings with Colombian dru I usually don't read memoirs or autobiographies so this was the first in a genre that I am currently exploring. My dad is an avid surfer and lent me the book not for that fact, since I have really no interest or experience with the sport, but because he thought I would enjoy the accounts of drug smuggling that the author was involved in that acted as a means to finance his surfing excursions. I thoroughly enjoyed reading about his adventures in South America and shady dealings with Colombian drug lords, but the meditations on surfing and detailed descriptions of perfect waves and proper form was lost on me. I was also a bit disappointed by the plot of the book which seemed to rapidly deteriorate towards the end. I rounded up to a 3 but would much rather give this book a 2.5 ...more Not usually a fan of memoirs. It is too easy too fall into the trap of self-promotion and history revision. But this one is excellent. A riff on the well-used theme of a journeyer who does not know exactly where he's going, but keeps finding it along the way. I felt a direct identification with the author's story and thoughts from my own \"way out there\" trips and experiences- Especially those tricky episodes of massive geographical and spiritual detachment. I assumed that bridge was nearly impos Not usually a fan of memoirs. It is too easy too fall into the trap of self-promotion and history revision. But this one is excellent. A riff on the well-used theme of a journeyer who does not know exactly where he's going, but keeps finding it along the way. I felt a direct identification with the author's story and thoughts from my own \"way out there\" trips and experiences- Especially those tricky episodes of massive geographical and spiritual detachment. I assumed that bridge was nearly impossible to build through a book. Most people like this are not so skillfully expressive. Good job, man. ...more This book was written by a surfer from Montauk Long Island who decides to go in search of a lost friend via a surfing adventure around the world. The accounts throughout are fabulous, high-seas tales about pot smuggling in south America, surfing Salsa Bravo in Costa Rica, tangling with banditos...the book is great. Allan eventually finds his friend, only to discover that he's become a crack addict who needs some help. The story of Christopher is rather a sad one. I'm definitely going to get the This book was written by a surfer from Montauk Long Island who decides to go in search of a lost friend via a surfing adventure around the world. The accounts throughout are fabulous, high-seas tales about pot smuggling in south America, surfing Salsa Bravo in Costa Rica, tangling with banditos...the book is great. Allan eventually finds his friend, only to discover that he's become a crack addict who needs some help. The story of Christopher is rather a sad one. I'm definitely going to get the sequel to this book, Cosmic Banditos. For anyone who loves the shoreline, this is a great story. ...more I might have liked this book more if I was more into mana. It's a surfing book and I knew that going in, and the descriptions of great surfing were intriguing but to feel sympathetic with the narrator, you need to be a bro-bra. Because, surfing can't be just everything, dude. The tales of travel were good and his stories about the drug trade were crazy! And some of the episodes had some good humor, but I was also reading David Sedaris short stories at the same time, so I might be giving Weisbeck I might have liked this book more if I was more into mana. It's a surfing book and I knew that going in, and the descriptions of great surfing were intriguing but to feel sympathetic with the narrator, you need to be a bro-bra. Because, surfing can't be just everything, dude. The tales of travel were good and his stories about the drug trade were crazy! And some of the episodes had some good humor, but I was also reading David Sedaris short stories at the same time, so I might be giving Weisbecker more credit than he deserves there. It's really a tragedy of the lives of people who look only to the high of the wave (or other things) and forget about the people around them. ...more Wow. This was one of those books that I invested myself too much in before realizing how bad it was. Due to this, I indeed skipped the middle third of the book to minimize personal suffering. In his memoir of a mid-life crisis road/surf trip to Mexico, author Allan Weisbecker manages to demonstrate to his readers just how arrogant and self-possessed he is, all under the guise of \"surfer cool\". I occasionally found myself reading excerpts aloud to my boyfriend, unable to fathom just how choadishl Wow. This was one of those books that I invested myself too much in before realizing how bad it was. Due to this, I indeed skipped the middle third of the book to minimize personal suffering. In his memoir of a mid-life crisis road/surf trip to Mexico, author Allan Weisbecker manages to demonstrate to his readers just how arrogant and self-possessed he is, all under the guise of \"surfer cool\". I occasionally found myself reading excerpts aloud to my boyfriend, unable to fathom just how choadishly Weisbecker portrays himself. Stay away from Captain Zero; it's just another B-rate portrait of a pathetic surfer. ...more<---C>Allan Weisbecker</---C><+++>In Search of Captain Zero: A Surfer's Road Trip beyond the End of the Road</+++>", "Title": "In Search of Captain Zero: A Surfer's Road Trip beyond the End of the Road"},
