{"Comments": "<+++>The Kafir Project</+++> is an impressive first novel by <---A>Lee Burvine</---A>, who blends together credible scientific concepts with religious history to craft a fast-paced and truly page-turning adventure. It's hard to avoid comparisons with Dan Brown: the themes and structure of Burvine's work are related, but you come away from Kafir with more useful and accurate information. The primary plot plays out a fantasy I've long had: what if it were somehow possible to go back and view the foundations of the major <+++>The Kafir Project</+++> is an impressive first novel by Lee Burvine, who blends together credible scientific concepts with religious history to craft a fast-paced and truly page-turning adventure. It's hard to avoid comparisons with Dan Brown: the themes and structure of Burvine's work are related, but you come away from Kafir with more useful and accurate information. The primary plot plays out a fantasy I've long had: what if it were somehow possible to go back and view the foundations of the major religions - to know for certain what happened, and what didn't? How might those truths change the world? This thought experiment is just one thread in a tapestry weaving together quantum computing, relativity,<---M> observational time travel</---M>, DNA data storage, archaeology, and international politics. Of note, Burvine forges two villains who are truly frightening in their drive, competence, and unpredictability. Once you pick it up, you won't want to put it down. ...more This was a blast to read! The story dropped one right into mayhem and madness from page one and went from there with no downtime. I enjoyed the characters, and felt they were fleshed out nicely. The bits of snarkiness and humor weren't overdone, but felt real enough in the crazy situation that it worked well. It was extremely thought-provoking, along the \"what if this could really happen\".<---F> Paperback edition</---F>. The Kafir Project is a rollicking adventure ride with a highly provocative premise \u2013 what if technology was developed that would allow us to definitely prove or disprove events in ancient history... and what if the historical events being targeted were the foundations of the world's major religions? What kind of power struggles would ensue in the fight to either get this technology and its results into public view... or destroy it still in the cradle? It's a fun vread, and of course the ideas in The Kafir Project is a rollicking adventure ride with a highly provocative premise \u2013 what if technology was developed that would allow us to definitely prove or disprove events in ancient history... and what if the historical events being targeted were the foundations of the world's major religions? What kind of power struggles would ensue in the fight to either get this technology and its results into public view... or destroy it still in the cradle? It's a fun vread, and of course the ideas in it are fascinating, but it felt a little rushed to me. We're dropped right into the action with virtually no setting the scene, and the story races along at breakneck pace for 300 pages with barely a pause for breath. The guts of the story are all about the efforts by a faceless shadow organization to kill our heroes while they race to assemble the evidence, developed by a scientist who's already been killed, and go public with it. It reminds me a little of a James Rollins novel (<---B>there, I didn't mention Dan Brown, are you happy?</---B>) which has the same type of action-heavy narrative with a veneer of science. I honestly would have been happier with more interludes delving into the science and history in greater detail. There are some big ideas here, but I feel like we brushed by them quickly so we could get to the gunfights, car chases, and explosions. Like a Rollins, it might have also benefited from an appendix discussing in frank detail the interface between current real-life science and fiction as used in the story. Of course, I may just be saying that because I love those. When it comes to the ideas in it, I find myself grimly certain that it wouldn't matter a whit to the course of human history if we could definitely disprove the historical underpinnings of any religion. Let's face it \u2013 in 2017, at least in America, we live in an aggressively post-truth society. Opinion polls about global warming are perceived to matter. The man recently elected President can blatantly lie about events millions of people witnessed on live television, and a huge chunk of the country doesn't even care. Carbon dating proving the earth is really 4 billion years old has been around for decades, but it hasn't stopped young-Earthers. People pay money to go visit a giant ark in Kentucky that's presented as accurate history. We are awash in both junk science, and people who will instantly dismiss real science as \u201cjunk\u201d if it doesn't agree with what they already believe. Existing science like dinosaur bones, carbon dating, proof that the Earth orbits the sun, the existence of billions of other galaxies and stars and planets, and plenty of other facts undermining central concepts in the Bible have been around for decades, and none of these have made a dent in the worldwide growth of Christianity. Of course, the scenario Burvine posits is much more visceral and strikes at the very heart of Christianity \u2013 the Resurrection itself. If the people of the world could see with their own eyes that Rabbi Yeshua \u2013 better known to us today as Jesus Christ \u2013 really didn't rise up on the third day and leave the tomb, would they have a change of heart? No, of course they wouldn't \u2013 they would simply dismiss it as a hoax, and anyone associated with publicizing it would have to go into hiding due to all the death threats. Ditto if the Muslims of the world could see with their own eyes that the Quran wasn't really delivered directly from God to Muhammad in Arabic. The only people who would believe it would be those who were already ready to accept scientific evidence over pre-conceived ideas. So, things would be different... how? And, oh, by the way... it passes the Bechdel test! ...more Readers' Praise For The Kafir Project \u201cA thrilling roller coaster ride. Fast paced and riveting. I couldn\u2019t put it down.\u201d Lawrence Krauss\u2014award winning astrophysicist, and author of A Universe From Nothing \u201cGrips you from the first page ... seamlessly intertwines sci-fi, applied physics, and a healthy dose of archaeology.\u201d Natalia Reagan\u2014anthropologist, writer, TV animal expert (National Geographic Channel) \u201cA compelling read that weds scientific accuracy with an anti-scriptural plot.\u201d Peter Boghossia Readers' Praise For The Kafir Project \u201cA thrilling roller coaster ride. Fast paced and riveting. I couldn\u2019t put it down.\u201d Lawrence Krauss\u2014award winning astrophysicist, and author of A Universe From Nothing \u201cGrips you from the first page ... seamlessly intertwines sci-fi, applied physics, and a healthy dose of archaeology.\u201d Natalia Reagan\u2014anthropologist, writer, TV animal expert (National Geographic Channel) \u201cA compelling read that weds scientific accuracy with an anti-scriptural plot.\u201d Peter Boghossian\u2014philosopher and author of Street Epistemology \u201cWith strong male and female characters. Everything a nerdy faithless feminist could want.\u201d Karen L. Garst\u2014author of Women Beyond Belief: Discovering Life without Religion \u201cBurvine gives the world a new kind of hero, an intelligent science communicator in the mold of a Richard Dawkins or Neil deGrasse Tyson.\u201d Andrew L. Seidel\u2014Constitutional and civil rights attorney for the Freedom From Religion Foundation \u201cBlends the breakneck pace of the best page-turning mysteries with genuine religious history.\u201d Emery Emery\u2014film editor (Aristocrats), and host of the award winning podcast Ardent Atheist \u201cHistorians and scientists have long known the Abrahamic religions are fiction. Who would have thought those findings could be turned into such an entertaining science fiction thriller?\u201d Dan Barker\u2014author of GOD: The Most Unpleasant Character in All Fiction \u201cEndless fun.\u201d Alexander Rosenberg\u2014philosopher, novelist, and author of The Girl from Krakow \u201cOf note, Burvine forges two villains who are truly frightening in their drive, competence, and unpredictability. An impressive first novel.\u201d Ross Blocher\u2014Co-host of the popular podcast Oh no, Ross and Carrie! ...more From page one Lee Burvine jams the throttle wide open, and it's a hair raising white knuckle ride all the way to the finish line. I think that The Kafir Project is the new yardstick for fiction with didactic intentions. The thrust of science, reason and exposure of myth for what it is, is masterfully threaded and woven into the plot so that those who most need to come to grips with these themes are taken on a roller coaster ride and fed a five-star meal all the way around. This is definitely a boo From page one Lee Burvine jams the throttle wide open, and it's a hair raising white knuckle ride all the way to the finish line. I think that The Kafir Project is the new yardstick for fiction with didactic intentions. The thrust of science, reason and exposure of myth for what it is, is masterfully threaded and woven into the plot so that those who most need to come to grips with these themes are taken on a roller coaster ride and fed a five-star meal all the way around. This is definitely a book for the bookshelf, one I'll re-read and recommend for many years to come. That esteemed physicist, Lawrence Krauss wrote the foreword, and that his promise in that foreword that I was in for a literary treat, speaks volumes for Mr Burvine's research, attention to detail, mastery of story telling and authenticity. Bravo.... bravo! Give us another one now, Mr. Burvine ...more Fascinating concept, fun story, quick read. Would like a sequel, focusing on the aftermath of the story's major revelation, but maybe that's better left to the reader's imagination. If you're looking for some all-encompassing blasphemy, a simple love story, and some engaging action scenes, pick up this book! The Kafir Project is great as thrillers go - but it's also the first I've ever read, or even heard of, that dares to cover this territory. It takes an otherwise familiar topic and turns it completely on its head. I can't recommend it highly enough for people who want to see reason prevail. Not art, but a solid, entertaining, sci-fi/espionage thriller with an atheist theme. I wish I could remember how I stumbled across this book. I think it could have been one of those annoying sponsored, \"we think you'll like this\" ads on Facebook. Wherever it came from, it was a good suggestion. The book is a nice easy read and touches on some fascinating scientific theories; mid-way between fact and pure science fiction. The narrative pace was good and keeps you interested from an exciting beginning to a tense ending. A proper thriller. The characters were well written and althoug I wish I could remember how I stumbled across this book. I think it could have been one of those annoying sponsored, \"we think you'll like this\" ads on Facebook. Wherever it came from, it was a good suggestion. The book is a nice easy read and touches on some fascinating scientific theories; mid-way between fact and pure science fiction. The narrative pace was good and keeps you interested from an exciting beginning to a tense ending. A proper thriller. The characters were well written and although we didn't get too much depth to them, perhaps the lead may develop further in future novels. The two key villans (the second one introduced in particular) were the character highlights. They were chilling and simply brilliantly written. Without being too harsh, I personally felt some of the exposition felt a bit clunky in places and in others the references to technical or scientific theories maybe not as detailed as it could have been. Having said that, it did encourage me to go and research them myself. The core of the book focuses on a topic that I think virtually everybody has thought about or discussed at one point or another and for that alone, this book is worth picking up. Looking forward to future writing by Lee, as his style definitely means that I would recommend this work. A great story, well told and well executed. ...more I love SF, but I love it much better if they have the physics right, and Lee Burvine does. It's the first book I read that featured a quantum computer and not presented it as something dark and mysterious, but just a machine that can execute Shor's algorithm (factorization of integers through quantum Fourier transform in polynomial time). Of course the physics had to be \"extended\" a little, because we don't *have* time viewing yet (or do we?) but Burvine manages to do that in a very credible way I love SF, but I love it much better if they have the physics right, and Lee Burvine does. It's the first book I read that featured a quantum computer and not presented it as something dark and mysterious, but just a machine that can execute Shor's algorithm (factorization of integers through quantum Fourier transform in polynomial time). Of course the physics had to be \"extended\" a little, because we don't *have* time viewing yet (or do we?) but Burvine manages to do that in a very credible way. Apart from that, there's a story with very real characters who escape time and again from very sociopathic murderers. It is there that the plot sometimes becomes a little bit incredible, but then in favor of the villains, which gives the book extra suspension. It has the cliffhanger and scene shifts that I don't like very much, but fortunately not too many of these. The book ends as you might suspect but that's just because it cannot be anything otherwise, or lose credibility. I loved the style of writing and can't wait for new titles of Burvine. ...more Very enjoyable.... This book is a must read for any atheist who also loves a bit of science fiction. With a little bit of espionage and a hard look at the true nature of the worlds leading religions, this story grips you and makes you want to not put it down. With a little bit of impossible physics thrown into the mix, it has something for everyone in the sceptic and sci-fi communities. Big recommendation to anyone who loves to read. It's very easy to give credit where credit is due and all the credit here goes to the author, who was nice enough to let me read an advance copy of the novel. It was entertaining, suspenseful, intelligent and easy to read as well, all made more surprising when you find out it's the author's first novel. It was a privilege to read and I can't wait for the next one. Non-stop thrill ride New and interesting take on time travel overlying an exciting adventure story. The premise is very believable. Like any new technology, some people and institutions will be scared of its potential. The best science fiction I have read in years. Very captivating, full of surprising and powerful ideas. An extraordinary and wildly entertaining book. Exceptionally good imaginative new technology, great characters, and a really fast plot make this a super good read. I sold my soul to the Devil for this book and it was totally worth it! lol I would give this marvelous masterpiece by Lee Burvine a million stars but, unfortunately, I'm limited to five. It's unbelievable how Burvine managed to create this thrilling story, rich in awesome science, adorable characters, unexpected but totally justified plot twists, and so much more. Personally, I immensely enjoyed strong and brilliant female characters. 'The Kafir Project' is an indisputable must-read! Totally dug this book. Burvine's writing style is easy to read and brings you into the story. I literally couldn't put this book down. Definitely recommended if you want something new and exciting to read. This book is amazing! It is totally captivating. The Kafir Project is really hard to put down, but incredible easy to pick up. After completing a reading session, I found myself picking it up again straight away. Very good and well researched. It's rare for a modern book to keep my attention so well throughout. I'm not usually big on science fiction, but this one was rooted in just enough reality to keep my interest. I found this book really engaging, especially that I could relate given my Lebanese background. Sadly a country sinking in sectarian divide for some time now. Definitely no where near as good as it was touted to be. Big disappointment. I thought The Kafir Project was OK. I heard the author interviewed on an atheist podcast and decided to check out his book, and bought the iBook version. I really enjoyed the premise of the book; think: NDT-like character caught up in a conspiracy about newly invented technology, the application of which would change humanity's view of the Abrahamic religions. What I didn't like was there were too many spy chase / held-at-gunpoint / common man-foils-assassin moments, and many of these seemed to I thought The Kafir Project was OK. I heard the author interviewed on an atheist podcast and decided to check out his book, and bought the iBook version. I really enjoyed the premise of the book; think: NDT-like character caught up in a conspiracy about newly invented technology, the application of which would change humanity's view of the Abrahamic religions. What I didn't like was there were too many spy chase / held-at-gunpoint / common man-foils-assassin moments, and many of these seemed to have unrealistic resolutions. Considering the amount of action and gun play, the book read like a Dan Brown book, which wasn't for me. I would've preferred a heavier dose of science and in the mix, rather than just as interludes between the chasing, shooting, and fighting. The book had short chapters, flowed well, and and the story never dragged so I found it to be a quick and easy read. It just featured too much of a genre I'm not interested in. ...more Fast-paced, exciting, with lots of cool science. Reminiscent of The Da Vinci code. I enjoyed this book so much! Read it in one go, well, listened to actually. Narrating from Seth Andrews was truly superb. I very much enjoyed the amount of detail present in the book, in many ways I can relate to this mode of thinking and it is nice to see it reflected in one of the characters in book form. I liked the intrigue and the science blending into a great story. I will more then definitely return to re-read (re-listen) to this book again. And the singing away of my soul for a free e-bo I enjoyed this book so much! Read it in one go, well, listened to actually. Narrating from Seth Andrews was truly superb. I very much enjoyed the amount of detail present in the book, in many ways I can relate to this mode of thinking and it is nice to see it reflected in one of the characters in book form. I liked the intrigue and the science blending into a great story. I will more then definitely return to re-read (re-listen) to this book again. And the singing away of my soul for a free e-book version of the book (on the authors web-site) was so much fun, - I would do it all again. ...more I\u2019ve often wondered what it would be like to possess the technology to witness landmark events of the past\u2014a window through which we could view the most momentous historical episodes. But how much of what we think we know might not be so? Lee Burvine brings this idea to life, assassins and all, in the form of a breakneck-paced thriller. One of the few novels I was unable to put down! - Edwin Herbert, author of \"Mythos Christos.\" This science fiction book was right up my alley. The story line captured my attention and held it while unfolding an intriguing narrative of mystery at the border of our current scientific understanding. The story intertwined with many of my favorite topics: science, religion, philosophy, government, and even a dose of conspiracy theory. The forward was written by Lawrence Krauss and the book was read by one of my favorite online voices (Seth Andrews) This is an absolute masterpiece. If you love the Dan Brown/Robert Langdon-style suspense novel, you will eat this book up in a day. It is fast-paced, grips you from the first paragraph and makes you fall in love with its quirky protagonists. And, just like Dan Brown's work, Kafir Project is actually based on very real, albeit highly speculative, scientific work! Just read it. You won't regret it. I found The Kafir Project to be engaging and grab me right away. The end of the first chapter even does a great job of setting the hook! His writing style has a visceral sense of realism that you see in authors like Dan Brown or Clive Cussler and the plot and characters were certainly engaging. The Kafir Project is certainly worth checking out. Fascinating, what more can I say? Except it would be nice to read a sequel and see how things go when those revelations are made public knowledge. Freethinking nerds ... will like this. Slow start but it picks up and the dialogue is better than I expected - some memorable assessments of religion. I liked it.<---C>Lee Burvine</---C>", "Title": "The Kafir Project"},
