{"Comments": "<+++>Dom Wars: Rounds 1, 2, 3</+++>FREE on Amazon US today (3/16/2016) includes round 1, 2 & 3 for FREE.<---F> Series complete</---F>. Thanks Jess. BLURB: ROUND 1 <---A>Lucian Bane</---A>\u2019s inner Dom is out of control and hungry for things he can\u2019t name. When he signs up for Dom Wars, he meets Tara who is naive to the BDSM world. Her reckless dominance and puritan heart fascinate him. But when he discovers the pain in her past, it unleashes his true Dom within. ROUND 2 Lucian Bane and Tara Reese have made it to round two in DOM WARS. The challenges FREE on Amazon US today (3/16/2016) includes round 1, 2 & 3 for FREE. Series complete. Thanks Jess. BLURB: ROUND 1 Lucian Bane\u2019s inner Dom is out of control and hungry for things he can\u2019t name. When he signs up for Dom Wars, he meets Tara who is naive to the BDSM world. Her reckless dominance and puritan heart fascinate him. But when he discovers the pain in her past, it unleashes his true Dom within. ROUND 2 Lucian Bane and Tara Reese have made it to round two in DOM WARS. The challenges now revolve around trust and while Tara's inhibitions in the world of BDSM are crushed by his passion, her deep rooted fears become the real obstacle he must dominate. ROUND 3 Dom Wars Round Three heats up with the Demon Domination challenge. Tara is up first to face the demons of her past and Lucian is ready to dominate for her. But that gets tricky when he realizes the demons he's fighting could be the end of them. http://www.amazon.com/Dom-Wars-1-2-3-... FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 500 books) https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... ...more In a today's world where books about hot, successful,<---M> billionaires sweeping young</---M>, inexperienced women off their feet and lavishing them with gifts and amazing sex dominate; Lucian Bane throws his own sexiness into the mix. These characters are real, tangible, people we can all relate to. That is one of the many reasons I love this series. Lucian Bane meets Tara Reese while waiting in line to audition for Dom Wars. Both have different motivations, but the same goal. Win Dom Wars and win the Mill In a today's world where books about hot, successful, billionaires sweeping young, inexperienced women off their feet and lavishing them with gifts and amazing sex dominate; Lucian Bane throws his own sexiness into the mix. These characters are real, tangible, people we can all relate to. That is one of the many reasons I love this series. Lucian Bane meets Tara Reese while waiting in line to audition for Dom Wars. Both have different motivations, but the same goal. Win Dom Wars and win the Million dollars. Tara is very inexperienced in the BDSM world where Lucian is a Master. Teaming up is their best option and what a team they make! Together they provide the sexy, sensual, hilarious experience and make us all fall in love. They are fighting to see who can be the Dom in their relationship. Throughout all 3 books they work to find a way to balance the need they both have to dominate. You will not be disappointed! ...more Even though it's a completely fictitious setting (where do they have Dom Wars?) I completely enjoyed the author's character development and dialog (a little heavy on the f*** words, but some people talk that way). They were real people (in an odd setting) and had real feelings. Totally fell in love with Tara (non-sexual way). She is vulnerable and sweet. Loved it. And such a deal! Get it. Now. Lucian Bane writes an awesome story. I have just finished 1, 2, 3 books. Not to be stereotypical but normally it is a women author that you see writing this kind of book. I found it so intriguing and such a breath of fresh air that a man had written this series. That just made me love this book that much more. And what an amazingly HOT read it is! So, I try my best to never do spoilers in my reviews. Lucian and Tara talk about chemistry. If you like to read about BDSM and the lifestyle written about does not offend your virgin eyes I have just finished 1, 2, 3 books. Not to be stereotypical but normally it is a women author that you see writing this kind of book. I found it so intriguing and such a breath of fresh air that a man had written this series. That just made me love this book that much more. And what an amazingly HOT read it is! So, I try my best to never do spoilers in my reviews. Lucian and Tara talk about chemistry. If you like to read about BDSM and the lifestyle written about does not offend your virgin eyes. You will LOVE this series! I must say the feel I get from this book is like a TV game show, it's different something I haven't seen before and enjoyable! I would be reading and then another task would come through. I would forget all about it being a \"game\". I was able to get the 1st three books of Dom Wars on Amazon for free and I skimmed through the mixed reactions of the readers. I always appreciated the dual points of view in a book, that way you get to know both personas so much better. it's original and asks the question of what does it really mean to be a Dom? There's no rule book that could define it and label it as such because it all depends on the person. Amazingly hot sex scenes! Will make you squirm and squeeze you thighs together! Awesome writing. Good flow and story line. A MUST read! ...more First of all, I feel guilty, because, in essence, I'm reading all of these for free. I have Kindle Unlimited, and, in the right boxed combinations, they're all there. They are worth full-price. I may even purchase for a re-read. Books 1-3 revolve around a reality game show of sorts where the goal is to be the \"Top Dom\" (referring to BDSM). Rounds 1 & 2 consisted of an assortment of tasks that had to be completed (either separately or together) a certain way within a certain timeframe. There i First of all, I feel guilty, because, in essence, I'm reading all of these for free. I have Kindle Unlimited, and, in the right boxed combinations, they're all there. They are worth full-price. I may even purchase for a re-read. Books 1-3 revolve around a reality game show of sorts where the goal is to be the \"Top Dom\" (referring to BDSM). Rounds 1 & 2 consisted of an assortment of tasks that had to be completed (either separately or together) a certain way within a certain timeframe. There is a lot of steamy sexual content in great variety. That's not my favorite thing, but, since I'm in the minority here, I'll mention it for the readers, who love hot sex scenes! Round 3 is about conquering the demons in Tara's past. I found that to be my favorite so far, because the relationship between Lucian and Tara had really developed into something substantial by that point, so it all \"meant\" more. Lucian's way of making her face her demons and her feelings for him was just ... epic! I can't wait for Round 4 when he conquers his demons! This is an unbelievable page-turner of a serial!! ...more I originally purchased these 3 books individually but I just had to have the boxed set Lucian and Tara meet as the result of entering The Dom Wars Competition. Lucian is definitely the Dom in this relationship, even though Tara would like to think that she is good as playing the Domme!!! I absolutely love the interaction between these two characters. The sex between them is totally of this planet - how I wish I was Tara!!!! I love everything about these books - the wit, humour, the arguements and the I originally purchased these 3 books individually but I just had to have the boxed set Lucian and Tara meet as the result of entering The Dom Wars Competition. Lucian is definitely the Dom in this relationship, even though Tara would like to think that she is good as playing the Domme!!! I absolutely love the interaction between these two characters. The sex between them is totally of this planet - how I wish I was Tara!!!! I love everything about these books - the wit, humour, the arguements and the SEX!!!!! I also love the straight man Steve - he is brilliant. Lucian Bane you are definitely onto a winner here!!!! ...more This series is amazing. I did not know that when I started reading this series that I was getting myself into a long term commitment with Lucain's Words OMG let me just say I am in love with how these two people are together. just in the first few chapters you can already tell that they are perfect for each other. I give this a 4 star because it did start out rough at first. hard to follow you can tell that this is a new writer but his style and stuff evolves to being much better a style i am cr This series is amazing. I did not know that when I started reading this series that I was getting myself into a long term commitment with Lucain's Words OMG let me just say I am in love with how these two people are together. just in the first few chapters you can already tell that they are perfect for each other. I give this a 4 star because it did start out rough at first. hard to follow you can tell that this is a new writer but his style and stuff evolves to being much better a style i am craving more of so here i go to go read the other 3 books. ...more wow. love this 3 book box set. and reading it knowing a man wrote it made it even better....you broke down the meaning of BDSM in a whole different way than I have read in other books.. and I also Liked that you used your name as the character.... really Enjoyed this seeing Lucian break down walls that Tara had built over her course of life with all the BS she has had to endure in her life...if you have not read this box set then you are missing out. I honestly can say I fell in love with this series! The concept of Dom Wars is so unique and not like your typical romance book. The characters, Lucian and Tara, interact so well with each other. You see their determination, their humor, their passion and their struggles. The HOT sex in this book had my head spinning..WOW! So now I'm on to book 4-6..I can't wait to find out how this turn out!! Loving this series! I usually have a hard time with male writers in this genre. They usually want to over do it and make it highly unbelievable but I found that this story line even though a little out there, almost perfect! Couldn't wait the purchase 4. 5 and 6. I am now team Lucian Bane! Kudos to you mystery man! 3.5 stars round up to 4.. I enjoyed this book but found the first 2 rounds lacking something ! However it got better with Round 3.. The sex scenes were exciting and thrilling but I found the third round having the demon domination tasked help build the characters and the storyline.. Looking forward to round4-6.. Recommend to fans of erotica and the BDSM lifestyle.~18+ only for mature readers... Love Lucian! Perfect example of BDSM. Dominance, patience, understanding, trust, comfort, and most importantly, the need to feel wanted, needed, understood, and trusted. I've fallen in love with Mr. Bane, and Tara, they are the perfect example of everything. Just as good this time around as the last. Think this is going to become a series I have to read at least once a year. Absolutely love Tara and Lucian!!! Can't wait to read the rest in the series!!! I LOVED it!!! Left me on the edge of various emotions!!! This series was fresh, intriguing and just AMAZING!! WOW I haven't had so much fun reading in a while.. This series is so very creatively written, and I am in total awe of the author Lucian Bane!! I started this series not knowing what to expect, and OMG, I did not want to put my kindle down!! I loved the writing, the scenes, and WOW that chemistry between Tara and Lucian almost set my kindle on fire!! Tara is determined to win Dom WARS to be able to take care of her Grandmother, but her knowl This series was fresh, intriguing and just AMAZING!! WOW I haven't had so much fun reading in a while.. This series is so very creatively written, and I am in total awe of the author Lucian Bane!! I started this series not knowing what to expect, and OMG, I did not want to put my kindle down!! I loved the writing, the scenes, and WOW that chemistry between Tara and Lucian almost set my kindle on fire!! Tara is determined to win Dom WARS to be able to take care of her Grandmother, but her knowledge of BDSM lifestyle(or D/s relationship) is only what she has read about. Lucian has lived the lifestyle, but has his own reasons for entering DOM WARS, but forgets them after he meets Tara, now he just wants to help her, and see what they can have once this game is over.. With each book, is get more intense, and we learn more and more about Tara and Lucian. As the Dom Wars continue through rounds, that connection Lucian and Tara have gets stronger! Lucian tells Tara of his feelings for her, but Lucian has to break that wall down that Tara has built-up around herself.. This series is fun, exciting and takes you on such a wonderful wild ride. The books 1-3 in Dom Wars are entertaining, great characters and so very creatively written. .You can't help but fall in love with this amazing pair!! I adore it when a author starts a book on such a great pace, then keeps it there the whole way. This was the first time I read from Lucian Bane, and can't wait to read more!! If your a fan of erotica romance books, then you will love Dom Wars by Lucian Bane!! I recommend this series to anyone that adores a GREAT romance erotica book!! For all that is 18 and older!! ...more Okay when I first got Dom Wars I was thinking it would be just about the BDSM. AND I will admit I thought it would just be all raunchy scenes. Oh how I was wrong. Well I mean there is hot sex scenes but there is way more in this story then just that. I loved reading this book. The author had a way of keeping me on my toes with the characters so it didn't get to boring and had me guessing. PLUS who doesn't love a strong, hot Dom that is sexy and actually cares. I can't wait to read more of story. Okay when I first got Dom Wars I was thinking it would be just about the BDSM. AND I will admit I thought it would just be all raunchy scenes. Oh how I was wrong. Well I mean there is hot sex scenes but there is way more in this story then just that. I loved reading this book. The author had a way of keeping me on my toes with the characters so it didn't get to boring and had me guessing. PLUS who doesn't love a strong, hot Dom that is sexy and actually cares. I can't wait to read more of story. Kudos Lucian Babe on a greatly written BDSM story. I would definitely recommend this book(s). ...more There's plenty of reviews if you're looking for info so I'll just give you a \"why\" 5 stars. It doesn't allow more stars. This collection of the first three books in this series may be the best I have read this year. The writing is perfect. You get dragged in and want to keep reading. Easily a book to lose a hunk of your day and not even notice it. Yes, there are plenty of hot BDSM and regular sexual scenes. Take those scenes away and you still have a very engaging story. The author makes you real There's plenty of reviews if you're looking for info so I'll just give you a \"why\" 5 stars. It doesn't allow more stars. This collection of the first three books in this series may be the best I have read this year. The writing is perfect. You get dragged in and want to keep reading. Easily a book to lose a hunk of your day and not even notice it. Yes, there are plenty of hot BDSM and regular sexual scenes. Take those scenes away and you still have a very engaging story. The author makes you really feel for both the main characters...very well written. This is something I'll buy. ...more I loved these books. I was lucky enough to get all three rounds in one file and Let me tell you this was one of the best reads ever. It sucked me in kept me reading all the way to the end. I recommend this as a summer beach read, what a great way to read a hot and steamy book but while you are baking in the sun at the beach. I won't give any spoilers. You will just have to read and enjoy Dom Wars for yourself. I enjoyed reading this book. I liked Tara and Lucian. I liked the way BDSM was presented in the story. A lot of people don't really understand it or how some couples enjoy the lifestyle. In Lucian we get to know a bit about how that type of relationship should be. He cares for and respects Tara. I like how the author also chose to touch upon the fact that not everyone in these types of relationships are like Lucian. I like Tara. She is strong yet vulnerable. She is flawed. She is a very realisti I enjoyed reading this book. I liked Tara and Lucian. I liked the way BDSM was presented in the story. A lot of people don't really understand it or how some couples enjoy the lifestyle. In Lucian we get to know a bit about how that type of relationship should be. He cares for and respects Tara. I like how the author also chose to touch upon the fact that not everyone in these types of relationships are like Lucian. I like Tara. She is strong yet vulnerable. She is flawed. She is a very realistic person. The setting was interesting. It took me outside my comfort zone a couple of times but brought me back in with the care shown afterward. I'm looking forward to reading more. ...more I so wanted to love this book from page 1. Loved the perspective and the concept but the characters were so confusing. Is he a Dom or a switch? Is she a Domme or a sub? realistic reactions to sexual situations after violent sexual assault even after therapy? I found myself very disconnected from the characters. My my my. My fav male author, check. My favorite male being a Dom, check. A novice, strong willed woman, check. Both competing in a BDSM reality show, double check. This book was truly fascinating from beginning to end. With 3 books down and 3 to go I can't wait to finish. Trust me, you'll want to read this. Weird idea I thought the story was really well written. It kept me on my toes in that I had no idea where it was going. but really it was just a strange concept and had me rolling my eyes a few times. Where do I start? This series is a fab read! I'm a big fan of Lucian Banes's and its like a breath of fresh air reading his books amongst this swamped genre. Fantasy, mystery and many dark elements make this a scrummy, addictive BDSM read! 4.25 Stars Loved Lucian Bane! Hated the ending. I will have to read 4,5,&6 to see if I love the series. Love Tara and Lucian's trials and revelations! Absolutely stunningly written couldn't get enough! The sex is HOT!!! Great series Extremely Hot I started out not sure of this series. I quickly became invested in the characters and the main character helping her Grandma. Her drive to win at all cost hit a place inside of me that made it real. The raw erotica. Pure heat pouring off Dom Lucian made it exciting. Lucian's struggles to see what could possibly be around the corner for a challenge next had me as stressed as him! His love for her more then winning the money but knowing she needs to win killing him. I'm Great series Extremely Hot I started out not sure of this series. I quickly became invested in the characters and the main character helping her Grandma. Her drive to win at all cost hit a place inside of me that made it real. The raw erotica. Pure heat pouring off Dom Lucian made it exciting. Lucian's struggles to see what could possibly be around the corner for a challenge next had me as stressed as him! His love for her more then winning the money but knowing she needs to win killing him. I'm off to part 4 as fast as I can go! ...more<---C>Lucian Bane</---C><+++>Dom Wars: Rounds 1, 2, 3</+++>", "Title": "Dom Wars: Rounds 1, 2, 3"},
