{"Comments": "<+++>Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam</+++> is a fact-based,<---M> international suspense thriller about recombinant DNA</---M>, genetic tampering, and eco-terrorism that results in a normally passive waterborne bacteria becoming virulent and infecting the world's water supply. Nocturne is a story about justice and our personal struggle to recognize injustice and correct it; it is a story about balance--balance in everything--our work, our families, our lives, and nature. <+++>Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam</+++> delivers believable characters in a surprising scenario of how genetically modified micro-organisms could create an unstoppable pandemic. The possibility of terrorists attacking our water supply pales in comparison to what a group of well-intentioned genetic scientists could wreak if just one of them unknowingly makes a mistake. This is a well-written, exciting, fast-paced thriller! Kate and Jake Connors, a likeable husband-wife covert agent team, embark on the task of Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam delivers believable characters in a surprising scenario of how genetically modified micro-organisms could create an unstoppable pandemic. The possibility of terrorists attacking our water supply pales in comparison to what a group of well-intentioned genetic scientists could wreak if just one of them unknowingly makes a mistake. This is a well-written, exciting, fast-paced thriller! Kate and Jake Connors, a likeable husband-wife covert agent team, embark on the task of finding a solution for stopping the spread of a genetically-altered, normally passive, waterborne bacteria, Bacillus nocturne. Incidents from around the world provide clues and subplots that come together at the end to show us that the enemy may be closer than we think. The unique plot and effective subplots are all plausible and unite at the end to form a satisfying conclusion. I enjoyed the contemporary premise and the true-to-life characters, and I am looking forward to reading the next adventurous confrontation that Kate and Jake must face. ...more I have been waiting eagerly for the this brillant writer, Dr.<---F> Norene M</---F>. Moskalski to finish her masterpiece.It is absolutely breathtaking,exhilarting,suspenseful and cool, sophisticated with an intriguing plot. Moskalski arranges beautiful themes that are composed to a fast musical note, that builds around each character in her book. Moskalski has spell-bounded and charmed her auidence with a new writng genre, that is powerful and done extremely well. Moskalski has incredible pasion about the se I have been waiting eagerly for the this brillant writer, Dr. Norene M. Moskalski to finish her masterpiece.It is absolutely breathtaking,exhilarting,suspenseful and cool, sophisticated with an intriguing plot. Moskalski arranges beautiful themes that are composed to a fast musical note, that builds around each character in her book. Moskalski has spell-bounded and charmed her auidence with a new writng genre, that is powerful and done extremely well. Moskalski has incredible pasion about the sea, and the ecosystem, that as a reader, you are inside the story. I can't wait until the next five years to see what happens to the characters.Moskalski keep writing! ...more This book was a fast paced and fun adventure, backed by excellent location research and interesting scientific ideas. The premise of the book was reasonable and modern, and the characters were likeable and realistic. I enjoyed it greatly and would like to read more about the characters. I can't believe I stayed up all night reading Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam--I haven't done that for years. This is a great book with believable, rounded characters in a fast moving plot that is enhanced by its engaging subplots. Everything ties together in the end, but until then, we're kept guessing about the outcome because of well-placed ironic twists and turns and an unusual ending. This is fact-based fiction at its best--the author's research for this story enhances the plot and makes the seq I can't believe I stayed up all night reading Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam--I haven't done that for years. This is a great book with believable, rounded characters in a fast moving plot that is enhanced by its engaging subplots. Everything ties together in the end, but until then, we're kept guessing about the outcome because of well-placed ironic twists and turns and an unusual ending. This is fact-based fiction at its best--the author's research for this story enhances the plot and makes the sequences of events seem plausible, and a little scary! I read the 6 x 9 Paperback Version, but my friend bought the new Kindle Version and says it looks great on her Kindle Fire. The characters are so true-to-life that I felt like I was in the scenes right beside them. The author certainly is skilled at setting the scenes--her descriptions are beautiful but never over long or tiring to read. The story stands strong by itself, without any salacious sex scenes or offensive language, and Christian fiction fans will love this book for its subtle values and morals that never come across as preachy. As I read this book, it became clear that this was more than just a fast-paced thriller. I've read hundreds of books for entertainment and for literary assignments, and I must say that I would consider this book to be a literary thriller. It reminded me of the classics taught in classrooms, like Lord of the Flies or Catcher in the Rye, that can be dissected to teach literary elements and writing style, yet still hold the students' attention. It's a contemporary novel with current issues that would hold a young adult's attention quite well--in English class or a science class--and should be considered for such purposes, as well. ...more Nocturne is a suspense filled eco-thriller. The world's water supply is compromised by an engineered bacteria, and the race is on to find the terrorists and find a cure. At most risk is the world's next generation, young people in their twenties and thirties. This was an easy story to get into. The story moved right along, and the science of the story was involved but easy to follow along with for the most part. Where the the book broke down for me was toward the end. We figured out who the ter Nocturne is a suspense filled eco-thriller. The world's water supply is compromised by an engineered bacteria, and the race is on to find the terrorists and find a cure. At most risk is the world's next generation, young people in their twenties and thirties. This was an easy story to get into. The story moved right along, and the science of the story was involved but easy to follow along with for the most part. Where the the book broke down for me was toward the end. We figured out who the terrorists were and what their agenda was, and all of a sudden, there seemed to be a race to tie it all up in a nice tidy package. I found the resolution to be trite and highly unsatisfactory.I was left saying to myself,\"Really? That's it?\" This author has real talent, and I look forward to more from her. If she could just not be in such a hurry to get to the end..... ...more Phenomenal writer! I just finished the final page of Norene's novel on my train ride home tonight. I wrote to Norene earlier when I was 90-95% done and offered my rave reviews!!!! What a fantastic book by a phenom writer! I am handing the book over to my scientist hubby, tonight. I told him what incredible medical/scientific research Norene did, and how much I knew he'd enjoy the book. Again, I say--Bravo! If you haven't yet turned the pages, I assure you that you should begin right away. You wo Phenomenal writer! I just finished the final page of Norene's novel on my train ride home tonight. I wrote to Norene earlier when I was 90-95% done and offered my rave reviews!!!! What a fantastic book by a phenom writer! I am handing the book over to my scientist hubby, tonight. I told him what incredible medical/scientific research Norene did, and how much I knew he'd enjoy the book. Again, I say--Bravo! If you haven't yet turned the pages, I assure you that you should begin right away. You won't want to put this book down! ...more Dr. <---A>Norene Moskalski</---A> has come up with a nifty premise for a series. Her protagonists are a married couple, Kate and Jake Connors. The two doctors are research professors at Atlantic University's Institute for Public Policy and Safety, which is dedicated to peacefully resolving international conflicts caused by climate change. They also serve as covert agents for a privately-funded, scientific subdivision of the Institute known only as the Agency. To heighten the tension in this premier book, \"No Dr. Norene Moskalski has come up with a nifty premise for a series. Her protagonists are a married couple, Kate and Jake Connors. The two doctors are research professors at Atlantic University's Institute for Public Policy and Safety, which is dedicated to peacefully resolving international conflicts caused by climate change. They also serve as covert agents for a privately-funded, scientific subdivision of the Institute known only as the Agency. To heighten the tension in this premier book, \"Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam,\" agents are forbidden to tell even their spouses about the undercover work they do. \"Nocturne\" is a fast-moving medical eco-thriller that would make terrific beach reading if it weren\u2019t for the subject matter. A normally passive, water-borne organism has gone rogue, attacking and killing beach-goers in the Mid-Atlantic States and coastal Europe. It\u2019s up to Kate and Jake to find the cure for Bacillus nocturne, track down the rogue scientist who genetically modified the bacterium, and find out why deaths are occurring only among young adults in their twenties and thirties\u2014before nocturne spreads and contaminates the world's water supply. \"Nocturne\" involves a tremendous amount of scientific explanation and backstory. I thought Moskalski did an excellent job of presenting the science. Her website describes her as a naturalist and environmentalist by nature and a medical diagnostician by avocation, with a Ph.D. in Higher Education Administration. So she is well-equipped to research her ideas and familiar with institutions such as the ones described in her book. Although she used many technical terms, I felt that Moskalski made the science accessible to any reader who is reasonably well-educated. Her resort settings are also beautifully described; it is obvious that Moskalski has visited these places. The authenticity makes the premise especially frightening, since it is clear that this is a scenario that could happen in real life. I found Moskalski\u2019s presentation of the characters\u2019 history a bit awkward. In some cases, I didn\u2019t think I needed to know as much backstory as she gave me. In other cases, I found myself wondering, \u201cDidn\u2019t I read about this in an earlier novel featuring these people?\u201d But no, \"Nocturne\" is the first of a series. In a few instances I felt the explication got in the way of an otherwise rapidly-moving plot. One thing is sure\u2014Moskalski has laid plenty of groundwork for potential prequels as well as sequels to \"Nocturne.\" In discussions on Goodreads, the author stated that the flow of the narrative is designed to imitate a musical nocturne, with tranquil passages abruptly giving way to chaotic action. I recognize this pattern in the novel, but since I\u2019m musically challenged, the comparison is lost on me. I regret that I\u2019m missing an interesting dimension of Moskalski\u2019s work. However, I thoroughly appreciated the wordplay involved in choosing \"nocturne\" for the name of an organism that multiplies rapidly in the dark. Overall, \"Nocturne, Opus One: Sea Foam\" is an engrossing read, a thriller with substance. I\u2019m looking forward to the next Kate and Jake Connors story. ...more Nocturne, Opus 1, Sea Form led me to ask the more scientifically knowable folks of my acquaintance whether the things Dr. Norene Moskalski wrote about were possible. Unfortunately they are. This book is well researched and comes from a writer with a strong science background. Dr. Molkalski has a good understanding of the environmental issues that are facing our planet. She tells the story of a mentally ill eco-terrorist who genetically modifies bacteria. The bacteria is lethal to humans. Nocturne Nocturne, Opus 1, Sea Form led me to ask the more scientifically knowable folks of my acquaintance whether the things Dr. Norene Moskalski wrote about were possible. Unfortunately they are. This book is well researched and comes from a writer with a strong science background. Dr. Molkalski has a good understanding of the environmental issues that are facing our planet. She tells the story of a mentally ill eco-terrorist who genetically modifies bacteria. The bacteria is lethal to humans. Nocturne starts out exceptionally well. The writing style is well suited to the thriller genre. As I began to read I found it hard to put down. The last half of the book was not as intensely gripping as the first part, but it was still very good. One of the things that did not work for me was the number of people who were related to one another either as front line workers or victims. On the whole this was a well written book that I have no reservations recommending to other readers. This book is very timely. As I write this review beaches in Vancouver, BC are closed for swimming because of E-coli. ...more Nocturne, Opus 1:Seafoam is a great thriller, well-written and fast moving. My eyes kept burning as I read - proof of the power of description. There were so many characters and places that I sort of wish I'd highlighted a few notes to refer to when I couldn't remember who was who occasionally, but it wasn't a big problem. The story is full of twists and action. If you like eco-thrillers, I\u2019d recommend this one. *This book was won from a First Reads giveaway on goodreads.com* I was given an opportunity to receive a Kindle copy of this book for an honest review. I would give it 3 1/2 stars, if the rating system would allow. I thought that the bio/eco terrorism theme is very timely and definitely gave me something to think about. Overall, the story was well paced, with the exception of the ending. I would have liked to have seen a few more pages, to be honest, as I felt that the book reached its conclusion rather abruptly. Moving forward, I would like to see more of th I was given an opportunity to receive a Kindle copy of this book for an honest review. I would give it 3 1/2 stars, if the rating system would allow. I thought that the bio/eco terrorism theme is very timely and definitely gave me something to think about. Overall, the story was well paced, with the exception of the ending. I would have liked to have seen a few more pages, to be honest, as I felt that the book reached its conclusion rather abruptly. Moving forward, I would like to see more of the Kate that used her ingenuity to get out of the car. This was a good medical thriller and I am looking forward to reading more by this author. ...more It had been a while since I had read a page turner!! This one was really good and I looked forward to reading it every time!<---C>Norene Moskalski</---C>", "Title": "Nocturne, Opus 1: Sea Foam"},
