{"Comments": "A very touching story that will rip out your heart,<---M> stomp on it</---M>, then pick it back up and cradle it.<---F> Cause that's what Silverbacks do</---F>. I appreciate all the things KA managed to work into this book - primarily, our misunderstanding of animals (<---B>and mistreat</---B>), while showing that we aren't all bad. Also Stella's character was awesome. I'LL MISS YOU STELLAPHANT. Anyways, READ IT. I've had <+++>The One and Only Ivan</+++> on my 'to be read' list for several months, and I'm so glad I read it! A fabulous book for elementary and middle grades (and older), this is probably my favorite animal story since Charlotte's Web -- and I don't make that comparison lightly. Like E.B. White's classic, it is by turns tender, funny, sad and uplifting. It's a quick read -- I'm a slow reader, and I got through it in one day. Ivan the gorilla narrates, and he is a very fine fellow indeed. I loved it. Mo I've had <+++>The One and Only Ivan</+++> on my 'to be read' list for several months, and I'm so glad I read it! A fabulous book for elementary and middle grades (and older), this is probably my favorite animal story since Charlotte's Web -- and I don't make that comparison lightly. Like E.B. White's classic, it is by turns tender, funny, sad and uplifting. It's a quick read -- I'm a slow reader, and I got through it in one day. Ivan the gorilla narrates, and he is a very fine fellow indeed. I loved it. More importantly, I think kids will love it too. ...more I really enjoyed this fictional story of Ivan the gorilla. The story made me think of the real Ivan and his life. What really went on in his head during those 27 years of being locked up at that dept. store? The story is cute and great for all ages. I'd recommend reading the true story about Ivan and his life before reading this fictional one. 4**** This book is so real. It's almost too deep for a children's book. Even though it's about talking animals and Ivan's complexity of thought could be a little misleading, this book touches on so many great themes both superficial toward children, but also in general about humanity, if you're mature enough to understand it. This book was cute, sad, and something very new to me. I adored it and it is such a fast read that I highly recommend it! Mr. Hankins is putting his readers on THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN for the beginning of 2012's reading season. Think of all of the good stuff you loved about THE ART OF RACING IN THE RAIN and TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE and, instead of sitting with Enzo in a cozy living room watching the discovery channel or with Morrie in a study littered with books and notes, you'll be sitting in a cage with Ivan, \"the Ape at Exit 8,\" a thoughtful gorilla tasked with one of the most difficult callings ever. . .caring for a Mr. Hankins is putting his readers on THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN for the beginning of 2012's reading season. Think of all of the good stuff you loved about THE ART OF RACING IN THE RAIN and TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE and, instead of sitting with Enzo in a cozy living room watching the discovery channel or with Morrie in a study littered with books and notes, you'll be sitting in a cage with Ivan, \"the Ape at Exit 8,\" a thoughtful gorilla tasked with one of the most difficult callings ever. . .caring for a new cast member in a broken down circus, a baby elephant. Appelgate's prose is beautiful, and Ivan, her narrator, like Enzo, gets to saying some things about being \"human\" that we all need to hear. . .a lovely, lovely book that will prompt discussions about what it means to live within one's intended calling even when that calling is not made manifest in the day-to-day doings. The book could also foster conversations about what it means to dig deep for that one latent gift that is just waiting for us to tap into it for the greater good--not only of ourselves, but for those around us. Mr. Hankins is coming out early to predict big things for Katherine Appelgate's THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN in 2012. I predict that this will become an instant classic that readers will return to again and again, sharing it with every friend they can. ...more Just when I think I'm too old, too mature, too hard-hearted, too sophisticated, too busy, or too \"something\" to allow a children's book to make me cry, along comes a story like this one. Don't have enough of the right words to describe it...I definitely haven't mastered the craft of writing the way Ms. Applegate has. And the way she does it, with the sparest of prose, is impressive. To me, \"good\" writing makes the reader view something with a fresh perspective, as if (s)he has never, ever experie Just when I think I'm too old, too mature, too hard-hearted, too sophisticated, too busy, or too \"something\" to allow a children's book to make me cry, along comes a story like this one. Don't have enough of the right words to describe it...I definitely haven't mastered the craft of writing the way Ms. Applegate has. And the way she does it, with the sparest of prose, is impressive. To me, \"good\" writing makes the reader view something with a fresh perspective, as if (s)he has never, ever experienced it before. Or, as if (s)he is suddenly living inside another's body, thinking thoughts that only the character could think, seeing the world as only that character would. So, for the past couple of hours, I have lived life as a captive silverback gorilla in a filthy roadside circus. It was...poignant. Who knew. Never thought about being a gorilla before. I can't WAIT to get a set of these and share this story with kids, both to showcase the fine writing AND for the remarkable lessons on friendship, humane treatment of animals, and the unexpected. ...more 3.5 I have not read a middle grade children's book in a long time, and I am glad I picked up Ivan for my kids. Ivan is the fictionalized tale of Ivan the lowland gorilla who lived in wretched conditions in a shopping mall for 27 years and then later moved to the Atlanta zoo. Kristina Applegate does a wonderful job giving Ivan and his friends their inner voices as they contemplate life in captivity and what it means to be a good or a bad human. I think this book is appropriate for elementary aged chi I have not read a middle grade children's book in a long time, and I am glad I picked up Ivan for my kids. Ivan is the fictionalized tale of Ivan the lowland gorilla who lived in wretched conditions in a shopping mall for 27 years and then later moved to the Atlanta zoo. Kristina Applegate does a wonderful job giving Ivan and his friends their inner voices as they contemplate life in captivity and what it means to be a good or a bad human. I think this book is appropriate for elementary aged children. They will probably find both the animal and human characters enjoyable as they root for Ivan and his friends to get out of their cages and into the zoo. I even recommend it to adults who are looking for an easy read and I am looking forward to reading more of Applegate's work. ...more \"Everyone has parents,\" Bob explains. \"It's unavoidable.\" I started out this review with a funny quote - but this is NOT a funny book. It's one of those emotionally manipulative sad books about animals. A seven-year-old girl personally recommended this to me. Little kids LOVE emotionally manipulative sad books about animals. Charlotte's Web , Black Beauty , Old Yeller , Shiloh , Where the Red Fern Grows , The Cat Who Went to Heaven etc. etc. You can add this book to the list. This is based (loosely) on \"Everyone has parents,\" Bob explains. \"It's unavoidable.\" I started out this review with a funny quote - but this is NOT a funny book. It's one of those emotionally manipulative sad books about animals. A seven-year-old girl personally recommended this to me. Little kids LOVE emotionally manipulative sad books about animals. Charlotte's Web , Black Beauty , Old Yeller , Shiloh , Where the Red Fern Grows , The Cat Who Went to Heaven etc. etc. You can add this book to the list. This is based (loosely) on a true story. Ivan is a gorilla who is kidnapped along with his sister in Africa when he was a baby. His parents were murdered. Both he and his sister were shipped to the U.S., but his sister died in transit. Now Ivan lives in a cage in the mall, eking out his solitary and depressing existence. But at least he has company. An old wise elephant named Stella, who was bought from a circus, and a stray chihuahua-mix called Bob, who is \"homeless by choice\" but sleeps on Ivan's expansive stomach every night. And even though you may be surprised, Ivan has a human friend, too - Julia, a 10 or 11-year-old who is the daughter of the night janitor. She sneaks Ivan drawing supplies - he is a proud artist, and loves creating pictures that are framed and sold in the gift shop for $25. But then one night Stella hears a noise. She knows it is the sound of a baby elephant in despair. The mall is going to get a new attraction, and she's going to change everything... ... If you are sensitive to animal cruelty, do NOT read this book unless you want to cry. The book has a (relatively) happy ending, but tons of bad things happen along the way - to gorillas, elephants, and dogs. I liked the book, I think it was well-written and perfect for children. Of course, as an adult you are going to have more of a critical eye - some parts really stretch credibility, the author is blatantly tearjerking you - but none of this will even occur to a child reader. The book is, of course, doing good work by helping children sympathize with animals and raising awareness about animal cruelty and human responsibility to treat animals with compassion. The book is saved from being a total sapfest mainly because Bob the dog is funny sometimes. The book has little illustrations occasionally. This book is very reminiscent of Charlotte's Web in more than one way. That's not a criticism, exactly, but you'd have to be blind not to notice the glaring similarities. That being said, Ivan stands on it's own two feet, I didn't feel like the author was using White as a crutch. Another thing that is good is the book's treatment of \"villains.\" The \"villain\" in this book (barring the unseen and unheard humans of the past who slaughtered elephants, gorillas, and dogs respectively) would be the mall's owner, Mack. Especially when he takes to (view spoiler) [using a claw stick on Ruby the baby elephant in order to train her and teach her to comply. (hide spoiler) ] But the book is careful to even out Mack's personality. He's not some sinister evil man who wakes up every day longing to cause animals pain. Instead, we see that he is tired, poor, depressed, and struggling to keep his mall in business. He even (view spoiler) [looks at some pictures of him and Ivan together when Ivan was a baby and Ivan lived in his house for years. He seems to like Ivan, even though he doesn't always make the best decisions for Ivan's happiness or wellbeing. (hide spoiler) ] I feel like this is a very good thing. As much as I can \"love to hate\" cackling villains like Count Olaf and Jiggy Nye, it's refreshing to see a more human and adult face on a villain once in a while. Appropriate for ages 7-10. Again, I feel people (who tend to say 9-12) are underestimating kids. Obviously 7-year-olds love it. Not only did a seven-year-old recommend this to me, but her school is making this into the school play next year. Just my two cents. I would go as young as seven on this. Or even an advanced six. ...more Una historia muy conmovedora, con unos personajes que se ganan tu coraz\u00f3n y una ense\u00f1anza muy bonita. Una lectura ligera, f\u00e1cil y r\u00e1pida. Me ha gustado bastante la historia de Iv\u00e1n. Rese\u00f1a Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201... I like colorful tales with black beginnings and stormy middles and cloudless blue-sky endings. But any story will do. ~The One and Only Ivan ::sniff:: What's that in my eye, this watery, salty substance? Crying? No. I'm not crying. I'm too old and cynical to cry. My tear ducts have long dried up. Really. ::sniff:: Oh for godsake, will someone hand me a tissue! This is a sweet, adorable story that will tug at your heart-strings in the most uplifting way. It is a beautiful, tender tale of friendship, I like colorful tales with black beginnings and stormy middles and cloudless blue-sky endings. But any story will do. ~The One and Only Ivan ::sniff:: What's that in my eye, this watery, salty substance? Crying? No. I'm not crying. I'm too old and cynical to cry. My tear ducts have long dried up. Really. ::sniff:: Oh for godsake, will someone hand me a tissue! This is a sweet, adorable story that will tug at your heart-strings in the most uplifting way. It is a beautiful, tender tale of friendship, acceptance and hope. The perfect antidote for the overworked, stressed out grinch in all of us. Read it! ...more Este fue el \u00faltimo libro que le\u00ed en marzo, pero decid\u00ed esperar unos d\u00edas para no escribir la rese\u00f1a en \"caliente\". Esta es una novela sobrecogedora, esperanzadora pero muy cruel. Desde la voz de Iv\u00e1n, este gorila inteligente y luchador, encontramos nuevamente a la humanidad en su mejor y peor versi\u00f3n. Las contradicciones del ser humano cuando la palabra humanidad le queda grande, son muchas y muy dif\u00edciles de reconocer. Una novela para reflexionar sobre qui\u00e9n es realmente la bestia no pensante: l Este fue el \u00faltimo libro que le\u00ed en marzo, pero decid\u00ed esperar unos d\u00edas para no escribir la rese\u00f1a en \"caliente\". Esta es una novela sobrecogedora, esperanzadora pero muy cruel. Desde la voz de Iv\u00e1n, este gorila inteligente y luchador, encontramos nuevamente a la humanidad en su mejor y peor versi\u00f3n. Las contradicciones del ser humano cuando la palabra humanidad le queda grande, son muchas y muy dif\u00edciles de reconocer. Una novela para reflexionar sobre qui\u00e9n es realmente la bestia no pensante: los animales que act\u00faan por instinto, o los humanos que predeterminadamente da\u00f1an s\u00f3lo por da\u00f1ar... Los animales viven, nosotros invadimos. Y la voz de un gorila macho que se extingue s\u00f3lo nos recuerda lo t\u00f3xica que es nuestra especie, incluso con nuestros primos lejanos. Pd: llor\u00e9 con una frase de este libro. Con una simple frase. No olviden que la historia de Iv\u00e1n est\u00e1 basada en hechos reales. 5 de 5 estrellas y altamente recomendada para TODA la humanidad. ...more Edit: My friend Matt recently wrote a review for this book and it's shorter and much nicer than mine so you should read his instead of mine. Matt's review is here. So my childhood came for a visit last weekend. By that, I mean this book came into my life last weekend. Big fonts and equally majestic illustrations reminded me of being a kid again. Yet, this book goes beyond a children's book. Everyone should read it because it conveys a story many other books lack. I, of course, expected nothing les Edit: My friend Matt recently wrote a review for this book and it's shorter and much nicer than mine so you should read his instead of mine. Matt's review is here. So my childhood came for a visit last weekend. By that, I mean this book came into my life last weekend. Big fonts and equally majestic illustrations reminded me of being a kid again. Yet, this book goes beyond a children's book. Everyone should read it because it conveys a story many other books lack. I, of course, expected nothing less from K. A. Applegate. She is the co-author of Animorphs and married to author Michael Grant? I think that is a deadly combination. The book is written in poetic \"chapters\" that reminded me of Ellen Hopkin's works. Here is a sample: \"Anger is precious. A silverback uses anger to maintain order and warns his troop of danger. When my father beats his chest, it was to say, Beware, listen, I am in charge. I am angry to protect you, because that is what I was born to do. \" Here is my domain, there is no one to protect.\" There were many passages like this throughout the book that made me felt an assortment of emotions. I felt Ivan's sadness and loneliness. His isolation from his kind and the naivety his human caretakers his given him. This book is a MUST READ for the old, young, young-at-heart, happy, sad, emotionless, and everyone in between. I cannot begin to put into words how I feel about this book. The above was an attempt but I think I did a pretty crappy job. Just read it, guys. P.S.: I love how there was a character named Stella in there. :') Bravo, Ms. Applegate. ...more My goodness! This book is gorgeous and so inspirational! It's based on a true story and I just got all choked up at the end! Love this sweet story <3 This was the absolute CUTEST!!!!! No tengo palabras para describir este libro. 5/5 y directo a mis favoritos. This award-winning middle grade story is based in truth. The structure is different with it's very short chapters/thoughts each presented with a heading/title. This fascinating approach lends a believable voice to our wise gorilla narrator, who speaks simply but understands deeply. The structure, however, did not make for a great listening experience. Long pauses between each \"chapter\" coupled with the many \"chapter titles\" made for an odd and disjointed listening experience. Though the reader v This award-winning middle grade story is based in truth. The structure is different with it's very short chapters/thoughts each presented with a heading/title. This fascinating approach lends a believable voice to our wise gorilla narrator, who speaks simply but understands deeply. The structure, however, did not make for a great listening experience. Long pauses between each \"chapter\" coupled with the many \"chapter titles\" made for an odd and disjointed listening experience. Though the reader voiced all the characters quite well, this is one the seems unsuited for audio. My children enjoyed this. The writing was a little simple for middle grade but mine are elementary, so either could have easily read the text. I found it to be largely depressing for a children's book. Also, I cannot believe anyone would ever use a gorilla's hand for an ashtray...I find that fact deeply distressing. 3.5 stars. ...more \u201cHuman can surprise you sometimes. An unpredictable species, Homo sapiens\u201d ----<---A>Katherine Applegate</---A> Katherine Applegate, a multiple award-winning American author, has penned a deeply moving tale about an adult gorilla living inside a glass cage in a mall in America, in her book, The One and Only Ivan . Inspired from real-life events, the author pens a heart-breaking yet thoroughly entertaining story about a gorilla and his friends and his mission to find freedom, and mind it, this book is not on \u201cHuman can surprise you sometimes. An unpredictable species, Homo sapiens\u201d ----Katherine Applegate Katherine Applegate, a multiple award-winning American author, has penned a deeply moving tale about an adult gorilla living inside a glass cage in a mall in America, in her book, The One and Only Ivan . Inspired from real-life events, the author pens a heart-breaking yet thoroughly entertaining story about a gorilla and his friends and his mission to find freedom, and mind it, this book is not only for the middle-grade children, but can be enjoyed irrespective of any age of the reader, from young to old. Synopsis: Ivan is an easygoing gorilla. Living at the Exit 8 Big Top Mall and Video Arcade, he has grown accustomed to humans watching him through the glass walls of his domain. He rarely misses his life in the jungle. In fact, he hardly ever thinks about it at all. Instead, Ivan thinks about TV shows he\u2019s seen and about his friends Stella, an elderly elephant, and Bob, a stray dog. But mostly Ivan thinks about art and how to capture the taste of a mango or the sound of leaves with color and a well-placed line. Then he meets Ruby, a baby elephant taken from her family, and she makes Ivan see their home\u2014and his own art\u2014through new eyes. When Ruby arrives, change comes with her, and it\u2019s up to Ivan to make it a change for the better. Ivan was a baby gorilla when he was adopted by Mack, a mall owner. All his life he grew up inside a glass cage and all his needs were taken care of by Mack and the animals-keeper, George. Ivan has no idea about the life outside that mall. He is accompanied by a dig named, Bob, some birds and an elephant named Stella. All these animals have a strong bond of friendship and understanding. Stella is the oldest among the lot and shares stories about the world outside with Ivan. Now Ivan has a lots of qualities of his own, he can paint, which is later sold at the gift store in the mall, he loves watching TV and is a big fan of Western movies and also loves watching humans passing by his glass cage every day. But his life is not all too glorious, he longs to be free and wants to be free among his kind. So when a baby white elephant named Ruby joins the lot, Ivan thinks otherwise and begins a mission on his own to free himself as well as Ruby from that mall. Honestly, I've read anything so touching as well as thoroughly enlightening. The author did a great job in capturing the voice of the animals, especially Ivan, through this story and thus making the readers feel connected with him. The author's writing is emphatic and is layered perfectly with humor and sadness. The plot, though a real-life inspired story, moves with a fast pace as Ivan notes down his observations about his life and that of humans around him. The narrative style is crisp and engaging and is easy for the kids to read with short, clear sentences and especially written with an easy to understand English, meaning there is no flowery words. The characters here are mostly animals and the author has captured their honest voice and thoughts thus bringing them to life. Ivan is the most adorable character of the book and I bet it will be difficult for the readers to let him go after the end of this story. Ivan's opinion about human are bound to make the readers take a pause and think for a while about their attitude towards animals and how we treat them. Ivan is funny, laid-back, and quite intelligent gorilla who is smart enough to chalk out an escape plan for himself as well as for the fellow elephant. Ivan's story is not only an eye-opener, but also thoroughly painful, especially when he narrates about his every day life in that glass cage. Ruby and Bob are two other fascinating whose voice are also captured strikingly by the author. There are also some human characters some who treat these animals with love and care, like Julia and George, and some who only think them as a means to earn more money, like Mack. We rarely give a thought about how the animals around us feel, but this boon is one hell of an uplifting story that will only make us, the humans, aware about their feelings and also will make us ponder about our attitude in general, for example, Ivan says: \u201cHumans waste words. They toss them like banana peels and leave them to rot. Everyone knows the peels are the best part.\u201d That's an honest revelation about human nature. The story of Ivan is a must read for every other human being and this book can be a great learning tool for young kids. In a nutshell, this story is captivating, heart-breaking as well as funny with a lesson to learn. And I return back to this story again and again. The emotions that are depicted through the narration are honest, straight from the core of the heart and are heart-felt with a power to make the readers sync with those emotions. Verdict: The book has already won so many literary awards, so you don't need me telling you that this is a must-read book. Courtesy: I received a copy of the book from Harper Collins India, in return for an honest review. ...more Chicken soup for the soul. The Grinch himself would be hard-pressed not to empathise with Ivan's story. With a gorgeous cover and a heartbreaking memoir of a lonely, caged gorilla living among other mistreated \"circus\" animals, delivered via emotionally-charged and insightful writing, Ms. Applegate forced tears from this stoic, 25-year-old pessimist. ' hello I am Ivan. I am a gorilla. It's not as easy as it looks. People call me the Freeway Gorilla. The Ape at Exit 8. The One and Only Ivan, Mighty S Chicken soup for the soul. The Grinch himself would be hard-pressed not to empathise with Ivan's story. With a gorgeous cover and a heartbreaking memoir of a lonely, caged gorilla living among other mistreated \"circus\" animals, delivered via emotionally-charged and insightful writing, Ms. Applegate forced tears from this stoic, 25-year-old pessimist. ' hello I am Ivan. I am a gorilla. It's not as easy as it looks. People call me the Freeway Gorilla. The Ape at Exit 8. The One and Only Ivan, Mighty Silverback. The names are mine, but they're not me. I am Ivan, just Ivan, only Ivan. Humans waste words. They toss them like banana peels and leave them to rot.' By reading The One and Only Ivan we walk a few miles in Ivan's shoes, so to speak. His wistful words touch your heart. His friend, Stella the elephant, twists your soul with her story and sentiments. Ruby, the baby elephant, you're desperate to save from Stella's fate. My arms ached with wanting to hug these (obviously wild and dangerous) creatures. 'Every night, when the stores close and the moon washes the world with milky light, Stella and I talk. We don't have much in common, but we have enough. We are huge and alone, and we both love yogurt raisins. Sometimes Stella tells stories of her childhood, of leafy canopies hidden by mist and the busy songs of flowing water. Unlike me, she recalls every detail of her past.' The graceful language is simple and concise yet colourfully illuminating. No words are wasted. The author implies rather than tells, allowing readers to draw our own conclusions. The lovely illustrations are sparse but functional. I knew early on this would be a five star re-read. Ivan's philisophical observations, his acceptance of his circumstances, his stubborn desire to never remember his wild and free childhood before he was captured, his all-consuming, engrossing characterisation, and the way he changes to become the silverback he's always wanted to be, like his father, when he meets Ruby -make this a page-turner. 'I am never angry. Anger is precious. A silverback uses anger to maintain order and warn his troop of danger. When my father beat his chest, it was to say, Beware, listen, I am in charge. I am angry to protect you, because that is what I was born to do. Here in my domain, there is no one to protect.' At page 72, my heart clenched and my eyes misted over with the introduction of baby Ruby, her distress and Stella's comfort...I'm tearing up just thinking about it. Ruby's a curious innocent you want to protect, and Ivan and Stella do their best. This story is loosely based on a real gorilla called Ivan, and other elements of it are real too. I've come away thinking the human race are scum that should be exterminated to allow all animals to live natural, peaceful lives without fear of human murderers and torturers. Me, the meat-eating non-pacifist. I suddenly feel the need to contribute to an animal welfare charity. That's probably the message working its magic on me. I highly recommend this captivating book to everyone over the age of 12, because the beginning is full of the depressing reality of cruelty to animals despite the sweet and somewhat predictable happy-ever-after ending. Even those with hearts made of ice can't fail to melt whilst reading this. ***A special thank you to Shannon and her status updates which inspired me to read this.*** ...more Based on a true story, THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN is the tale of a silverback gorilla who's forgotten how to be a gorilla in many ways. Raised in a house with people who fed him ice cream cones and took him to baseball games, Ivan grows rambunctious and ends up creating finger paintings as one of the star attractions in a mall circus. When Ruby, a baby elephant arrives, Ivan promises to save her from a lifetime chained in a tiny cage. To do so, he needs to reclaim his title as silverback, the leader Based on a true story, THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN is the tale of a silverback gorilla who's forgotten how to be a gorilla in many ways. Raised in a house with people who fed him ice cream cones and took him to baseball games, Ivan grows rambunctious and ends up creating finger paintings as one of the star attractions in a mall circus. When Ruby, a baby elephant arrives, Ivan promises to save her from a lifetime chained in a tiny cage. To do so, he needs to reclaim his title as silverback, the leader and protector of his group. While it's so sad in places, this is a story that will ultimately warm the hearts of animal lovers young and old. The narration (by Ivan the gorilla!) could easily have slipped into the melodramatic, but heavy doses of humor and an equal balance of heart keep it from being anything but poignant and perfect. Kids will love this book, and in the classroom, it will pair nicely with articles like this one ( http://www.paws.org/ivan-gorilla.html ) about the real Ivan that inspired the story. I support independent bookstores. Here's a link to find one near you or to order THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN via IndieBound: http://www.indiebound.org/book/978006... ...more Absolutely adorable, wise, sad and so many other adjectives all meaning very good. The friendships and inner voices of these animals were amazing. I think that some of the children would not understand but reading this as an adult they show such irony and wisdom. Hoping to read this to my grandchildren when they come in a couple of weeks. 5/5 stars The Skinny: Ivan, a lonely silverback gorilla, has lived in the Exit 8 Big Top Mall and Video Arcade for 27 years. Ivan\u2019s only friends are an elephant named Stella, A small dog named Bob, and a human girl named Julie. Ivan is content in his domain (as he calls it), because he does not really know any differently. One day, a new animal arrives at the struggling Big Top Mall. Ruby, a baby elephant awakens something within Ivan. Suddenly his domain doesn\u2019t seem so warm anymore; now it seems 5/5 stars The Skinny: Ivan, a lonely silverback gorilla, has lived in the Exit 8 Big Top Mall and Video Arcade for 27 years. Ivan\u2019s only friends are an elephant named Stella, A small dog named Bob, and a human girl named Julie. Ivan is content in his domain (as he calls it), because he does not really know any differently. One day, a new animal arrives at the struggling Big Top Mall. Ruby, a baby elephant awakens something within Ivan. Suddenly his domain doesn\u2019t seem so warm anymore; now it seems like the small cage that it is. The Review: This story was heart-warming and heart-wrenching all at the same time. My heart strings haven\u2019t been pulled quite so much by a book this entire year. I don\u2019t know how she did it, but if gorillas could truly talk, I think they would sound exactly like how Katherine Applegate wrote Ivan\u2019s voice. Ivan, through his words and actions, came across as almost innocent throughout most of the novel. Because of his unintentional innocence, Ivan was also often humorous. You can only throw so many me-balls at humans before you get bored. A me-ball is made by rolling up dung until it\u2019s the size of a small apple, then letting it dry. I always keep a few on hand. For some reason, my visitors never seem to carry any. Ivan is completely serious when he says this. \u201dPoor old Ivan,\u201d she says. \u201cI\u2019ve been ignoring you, haven\u2019t I?\u201d I grunt again, a dignified indifferent grunt. Julia thinks for a moment, then smiles. She walks over to my domain, to the spot in the corner where the glass is broken. She slides paper through. She rolls a pencil across my cement floor. \u201cYou can draw the baby elephant too,\u201d Julia says. I bite the pencil in half with my magnificent teeth. Then I eat some paper. This innocence that Ivan embodies changes after Ruby arrives. Ruby makes Ivan recognize his past, which he had shut out, and also helps him to see that the Big Top Mall is not the right place for Ruby. Ivan cares for Ruby so much that he does not want the Mall to be the last place she sees; he doesn\u2019t want Ruby to end up like him. \u201cDo you think,\u201d she asks, \u201cthat I\u2019ll die in this domain someday\u2026?\u201d Once again I consider lying, but when I look at Ruby, the half-formed words die in my throat. \u201cNot if I can help it,\u201d I say instead. I feel something tighten in my chest, something dark and hot. \u201cAnd it\u2019s not a domain,\u2019 I add. I pause and then I say it. \u201cIt\u2019s a cage.\u201d If I had to pick one thing that this book is about it would be friendship. The friendships that are developed in this story are of the truest kind. They are the type that help you to grow as a person, and to challenge yourself and what you\u2019ve always known. On a darker note, this book is about humanity, more specifically the nature of humans. As I read, I kept asking myself why some of us are so greedy and self-absorbed. I also wondered how people can do the things they do and still sleep at night. Overall: The One and Only Ivan sent for me a tail-spin; I felt both intense happiness and sadness as I read. When I picked this book off the shelf, I wasn\u2019t anticipating the love I would have for this story. I feel like children and adults alike could find a place for Ivan and his friends in their hearts. ...more Qu\u00e9 historia tan bonita, tan bien contada y tan tierna. Qu\u00e9 preciosidad de novela. Las ilustraciones son pocas pero me sacaban una sonrisa y la voz de Iv\u00e1n estaba perfectamente definida y transmit\u00eda un mont\u00f3n. Me ha faltado algo, algo muy peque\u00f1o, pero es una de mis novelas favoritas en lo que llevo de a\u00f1o. Qu\u00e9 sensibilidad, Applegate. Wow!!! What a wonderful story!!! I picked this out of the blue I didn't realize it was a \"kids\" book but it didn't feel like it. I loved it!!! This book is for everyone. My, what a marvelous book. Absolutely beautiful. I hesitate to review it. I\u2019d rather just say this: Read it. Soon. Preferably today. Don\u2019t waste your time on the rest of this review when you could be reading the book. Okay, now that you\u2019ve read the book, here\u2019s my take on things: It is not exactly a secret that this book is one of the most celebrated of the year. For me, that is often a sign to stay away. What sort of book could live up to such critical acclaim? Who needs the disappointment? Thos My, what a marvelous book. Absolutely beautiful. I hesitate to review it. I\u2019d rather just say this: Read it. Soon. Preferably today. Don\u2019t waste your time on the rest of this review when you could be reading the book. Okay, now that you\u2019ve read the book, here\u2019s my take on things: It is not exactly a secret that this book is one of the most celebrated of the year. For me, that is often a sign to stay away. What sort of book could live up to such critical acclaim? Who needs the disappointment? Those who, like me, are inclined to such thoughts would do well to read the first few pages. I don\u2019t care how old a person is, if she can read a line like the following and then stop never to return, she is a stronger person than I: \u201cHumans waste words. They toss them like banana peels and leave them to rot.\u201d What makes this book is the voice. Told from the perspective of a silver backed gorilla named Ivan, it is written in what can only be called first-gorilla narration. It certainly isn\u2019t first-person, as Applegate avoids better than any example I can think of the classic pitfall of those who write from the perspective of animals: the tendency to humanize the voice, the thoughts, the mentality, and the observations of animals. From the start, we know this isn\u2019t a human voice. It is too unique, too insightful, too matter-of-fact. As such, the writing packs far more punch that a humanized voice could achieve, and we are treated to a concise and poetic narration that accomplishes more storytelling, wit, and emotional impact with fewer words than seems humanly possible. Ivan\u2019s observations, though short, are never simplistic; they are insightful, sharp, and at times devastatingly complex. The voice, to me, is the key to both the beauty and the underlying sadness of this book. It is true that the plot is fairly straightforward, and it is unfortunate that a short summary makes it sound formulaic. Perhaps it is. But the beauty of the book lies in Applegate\u2019s skillful and nuanced treatment of characters and events as well as the skill with which she harnesses Ivan\u2019s unique voice. We learn most of what we need to know about our narrator in the first few pages of the book. Ivan (A.K.A. The One and Only Ivan) serves as the main attraction at the Exit 8 Big Top Mall and Video Arcade, a place that serves cotton candy, charges folks to watch animals perform tricks, and sells ashtrays made of gorilla hands in the gift shop. This does not seem a happy life, and Ivan\u2019s own description of his life betrays an undercurrent of sadness: \u201cSome animals live privately, unwatched, but that is not my life. My life is flashing lights and pointing fingers and uninvited visitors.\u201d Nevertheless, Ivan seems to accept the circumstances of his life with sad resignation. His matter-of-fact observations lend a deep sense of pathos to the narrative as it is impossible to see in him a desire or hope to change things. He has, we are told, reached a point of acceptance (though clearly not happiness). Ivan describes it this way: \u201cI think about what is, not what could be. I\u2019ve learned not to get my hopes up.\u201d None of this, it must be emphasized, is treated with even a hint of melodrama. Yes, Ivan is unflinching in his descriptions of his life, never more so than when he describes the walls of his domain, where, \u201cThe glass says you are this and we are that and that is how it will always be.\u201d But he is never melodramatic. Ivan\u2019s mindset changes when a young elephant named Ruby is brought to the Big Top Mall to (the owner hopes) improve attendance. Ruby\u2019s initiation into the life of a performer, combined with an important event that does not surprise but nevertheless saddens the reader, triggers memories in Ivan of his early life in the wild and of the trauma of his capture. These memories together with a promise he has made to protect Ruby seem to jolt Ivan into action. He begins to call his domain what it really is: a cage. Using his skill and creativity as an artist, Ivan constructs a plan to free Ruby from the confines and loneliness of the Big Top Mall and land her in the only place he sees as a viable option: a zoo. Lest we think Ivan has narrow vision, he makes clear that he knows this is not an ideal option or even a great option, simply a practical one that is better than the Big Top Mall: \u201cIt is not a perfect place\u2026A perfect place would not need walls. But it\u2019s the place I need.\u201d I will not spoil the ending for those yet to read this marvelous book. But I will say this: given the sadness of his life, the narrowness of his options, the isolation he feels as he recognizes that he has been ripped from his proper world and placed in one that has no real place for him, it would be a disappointment if Applegate then presented us with an unambiguously happy ending for Ivan. She doesn\u2019t disappoint, and the strength of this book throughout is her deft handling of complexity. That she successfully manages it through the voice of a gorilla should win Applegate some sort of prize. At the very least, she has succeeded in creating something that will captivate readers for years to come. ...more Like a Pixar movie, The One and Only Ivan treats complex emotions with simplicity. The simple, direct language translates to children and adults, and Applegate excels at subtext and tone, keeping a barely restrained current of fear and hostility underneath Ivan's calm, child-like voice. She really illustrates the power of \"show, don't tell.\" That restraint shows how much better things are when the author takes in the emotion and indirectly shows the reader rather than straight telling us. Becaus Like a Pixar movie, The One and Only Ivan treats complex emotions with simplicity. The simple, direct language translates to children and adults, and Applegate excels at subtext and tone, keeping a barely restrained current of fear and hostility underneath Ivan's calm, child-like voice. She really illustrates the power of \"show, don't tell.\" That restraint shows how much better things are when the author takes in the emotion and indirectly shows the reader rather than straight telling us. Because of this, when Applegate reveals Ivan's history it feels like a revelation and not exposition or the answer to some riddle we don't care about. The pace of the first half sets the tone, but the rest of the book has a little trouble maintaining that precarious balance of being kid-friendly, yet sophisticated. It is no great shock that Ivan has to end on a positive note. Of course, it does. You have to take audience into consideration. Applegates fumbles the pace just a little bit in the back half (after Ivan's Charlotte's Web moment). After the zoo is introduced, we understand where this is headed, but Applegate seems in a great hurry to get there. A lot of the detailed moments in the front half disappear and unrelenting plot momentum takes over. In some ways this is apt because Ivan's job is over and he is no longer the plot's engine. Now that responsibility goes to outside sources, but that sudden vacuum creates this weird feeling of just going through the paces. The ending in the zoo feels completely earned, but it's just a bumpy ride to get there. ...more All right, the topic is Famous Ape Books of Children's Literature. And . . . go. Care to name any? Well there's Curious George , of course (often mistakenly called a monkey in spite of his lack of tail). He's the most famous but after that it gets harder. Eva by Peter Dickinson might count (also a chimp). Or a book like Hurt Go Happy by Ginny Rorby (chimp). Gorillas appear to be much rarer, which is funny when you consider it. I would think an animal as big and impressive as a gorilla would be a All right, the topic is Famous Ape Books of Children's Literature. And . . . go. Care to name any? Well there's Curious George , of course (often mistakenly called a monkey in spite of his lack of tail). He's the most famous but after that it gets harder. Eva by Peter Dickinson might count (also a chimp). Or a book like Hurt Go Happy by Ginny Rorby (chimp). Gorillas appear to be much rarer, which is funny when you consider it. I would think an animal as big and impressive as a gorilla would be a no brainer children's book hero. As it happens, Ivan of The One and Only Ivan is a rarity, and not just because his story covers ground that few other books have (with the exception of the odd Good Night Gorilla ). Katherine Applegate's title is a cry for animal rights that works on its reader in slow subtle steps. You will find no screeds or speeches or long lengthy lamentations. Instead, it's just a gorilla living what life he can, until the day he can stay silent no longer. Thanks to its restraint the book ends up being a gem. One of the best of the year, no doubt. Basically what we have here is Charlotte's Web if you took that tiny spider and replaced her with a 300-pound gorilla. Which, to be frank, would normally bode badly for said gorilla. And certainly badly is how Ivan, the titular hero of this tale, bodes when you consider that he is trapped in an off-highway mall circus. Ivan's never questioned his fate seriously, considering that he's been there for twenty-seven years. Then one day Mack, the owner of the mall, decides that the only way to drum up more business will be to buy a new resident. There's already Ivan and Stella, the elephant with an injured foot that doesn't seem to be getting better. To this mix comes Ruby, a baby elephant not long captured from her home in the wild. Thanks to Ruby, Ivan sees that this is no place for a baby of any sort and he must use all his brains and intelligence to find a way to save not just her but himself as well. It is the temptation of every author, bad or good, to simplify ethics when they write for kids. Bad guys are bad, good guys are good, and never the twain shall meet. This is particularly true of animal abuse stories. After all, who wants to go about digging up a heart of gold in a character that kicks puppies? Yet the best books for kids are often the ones that allow for at least a glimpse of the human inside the villain. It's the reason Phyllis Reynolds Naylor's Shiloh works as well as it does and it's one of the reasons why The One and Only Ivan distinguishes itself. Mack is the villain here, no question about it. You don't go about hitting baby elephants with sharp objects without it rubbing off on your character, so to speak. But there are depths to Mack as well. He's a man who really did love Ivan on some level when the gorilla was a baby. Then his wife left him and he started hitting the booze to deal with his financial problems. There are a lot of Macks in this world and I think it's worth letting a kid know that they can feel sorry for someone but still hold them accountable for their actions. No matter how bad you feel for the guy, Applegate never lets you forget that he's the reason for Ivan, Thelma, and Ruby's imprisonment. I don't think Applegate could have gotten very far in this novel if she hadn't gotten Ivan's voice right from page one onwards. I got hooked pretty early on when in describing his situation Ivan says simply, \"At present, I do not have any gorilla friends.\" The temptation to anthropomorphize must have been great. We can't ever really know what a gorilla is thinking at a given time, but Applegate plays nicely with the differences between what we think and what he thinks. Ivan isn't stupid by gorilla means but kids might find his thought process a bit slow from the human standpoint. That's okay. He comes to thoughts and ideas in his own time. Plus the pacing of those thoughts and ideas works well. I'm a sucker for a good emotional beat. Ivan has to grow and change in the course of this novel, even if he's physically trapped. So Applegate parcels out his growth incrementally but quickly enough that the child reader doesn't get bored. There are worlds worth of meaning loaded in the way Ivan eventually changes from referring to his home as his \"domain\" to his \"cage\". Worlds. Generally speaking, when a book is written as a verse novel I like there to be a reason for it. For example, Thanhha Lai's Inside Out and Back Again uses its verse as a way of considering the transition from one culture and language to another. When I encountered verse in The One and Only Ivan I initially dismissed it as yet another easy authorial trope. Thinking about it, though, I've come to the realization that verse works well here probably because Ivan is not a human. His thoughts are vast and complex but restrained (by choice, to a certain extent, and by nature itself). Applegate also takes great care in how she uses language. Her descriptions can be delicious. A seal has a \"voice like the throaty bark of a dog chained outside on a cold night.\" \"Humans always smell odd when change is in the air. Like rotten meat with a hint of papaya.\" \"Human babies are an ugly lot. But their eyes are like our babies' eyes. Too big for their faces, and for the world.\" And a mop, \"moves across the empty food court like a giant brush, painting a picture no one will ever see.\" The violence when it comes is well done. You're not even entirely certain anything has actually been done to the baby elephant, but the claw-stick is always there like an unspoken threat. Physical violence in this book doesn't really occur. It's the psychological kind that's more common. Keeping wild animals in tiny penned concrete cages is something children can understand. They too are kept in enclosed areas, sometimes against their will. And even they can comprehend what it would do to someone to only know the walls around you. Why doesn't Ivan fight back? He does. He just needs someone to protect first. The illustrations pose a bit of a puzzle, though. They're not bad by any means. Just . . . off. A friend of mine likened them to the cover of The Underneath by Kathi Appelt. To her mind the image of a dog and kittens gives Appelt's novel a misleading sunshine and rainbows feel where instead you find a book of gritty magical realism (new genre). I didn't really see it with Appelt's book but I definitely felt that way about the pictures in Ivan . Though I wouldn't label Applegate's book as bleak or morose, there is a seriousness to it. We're dealing with the subject of abuse, mental and physical to a certain extent. Yet looking at the cover I see a gorilla and an adorable baby elephant hanging out together. Inside it's the same. Artist Patricia Castelao's pictures are well made but they evoke a sweeter simpler novel that what we have in our hands here. I suspect that may have been the point, though. You can counter darker written material with sweet images. I just don't think this is quite the ideal pairing of the two. I had a moment of confusion and doubt early on in the book around page 166 when I wondered if the book was defending zoos. Ivan tells Ruby that zoos are where \"humans make amends.\" It would make for a good book group discussion point: Does the author think zoos are a good thing or a bad thing? Be sure to bring up the fact that Ivan sees the inside of a zoo at one point and comments, \"It's not a perfect place . . . A perfect place would not need walls. But it's the place I need.\" Well this is the book we need. Consider it an animal book for those kids who don't like animal books. There's nothing twee or precious about it. Just good crisp writing, complex characters, and a story that will make animal rights activists out of the most lethargic of readers. Applegate has penned a real doozy of a book that speaks to the best and worst in all of us. For ages 9-12. ...more I wanted to read a short and sweet story today. Some fluff. What I didn't realize was that this book isn't fluff. It's heartbreaking and cruel and true and one of the most important stories for children (and adults) I've ever read. The story is about Ivan, a silverback gorilla who lives in a mall. The book is based on a real gorilla who was locked up in a cage of a Washington mall for 27 years before public awareness finally grew and people demanded that he be brought to a zoo (in Atlanta) at lea I wanted to read a short and sweet story today. Some fluff. What I didn't realize was that this book isn't fluff. It's heartbreaking and cruel and true and one of the most important stories for children (and adults) I've ever read. The story is about Ivan, a silverback gorilla who lives in a mall. The book is based on a real gorilla who was locked up in a cage of a Washington mall for 27 years before public awareness finally grew and people demanded that he be brought to a zoo (in Atlanta) at least. So this story is about Ivan and a few other animals who live in a mall and how they spend their day-to-day lives. It's also about what captivity means to animals. We get the comparison to zoos (who still are far from perfect but definitely better) and circus and get a glimpse at how animals usually are captured. Sure, this is not an easy read, especially not for children, but that is exactly why it is so important. It's an awful business and what people do to animals just for the fun of it makes me sick to my stomach. Apparently, the author feels the same which is why she wrote this book. As difficult as this topic might be, I think it is paramount to teach children that captivity is never OK, but that we have to get rid of the bigger evils (malls, circus) first, before moving on to the smaller ones (zoos) until all animals will finally live where they belong - in the wild. Therefore, as heartbreaking as it was, I was glad that (view spoiler) [the author incorporated an elderly elephant and how she died. (hide spoiler) ] In the wake of what happened to the poor gorilla in Cincinnati Zoo when a baby fell into the enclosure, one story within this book strikes especially hard. First, I don't belief for a second that any animal is dumb. Secondly, I firmly believe that animals have great emotional intelligence and usually don't harm babies of any kind. It's how/why a tigress raised piglets for example. Therefore, I don't think the baby in Cincinnati was ever in real danger - if the adults around the enclose had kept their mouths shut instead of panicking, the gorilla would have never gotten nervous in the first place and in my opinion he simply wanted to protect the baby. But they had to shoot him. That's humans for you. Anyway, this book is a fantastic way to educate your children about animals, their intelligence and the great crime that is captivity and human arrogance/stupidity when it comes to animal rights, and it is no surprise that this book won a John Newberry Medal. ...more El \u00fanico e incomparable Iv\u00e1n es una novela que se ha convertido en todo un fen\u00f3meno \"Crossover\" en Estados Unidos. Una novela ganadora del premio Newbery Medal y dirigida a un p\u00fablico infantil que ha acabado siendo juvenil y adulto. No esperaba para nada la historia fuera como es, sino que esperaba algo sencillo e infantil. Pero estaba muy equivocada y ha sido una historia que me ha sorprendido y me ha encantando. Siempre he dicho y he pensado que me gustan las buenas novelas. Y para m\u00ed las verda El \u00fanico e incomparable Iv\u00e1n es una novela que se ha convertido en todo un fen\u00f3meno \"Crossover\" en Estados Unidos. Una novela ganadora del premio Newbery Medal y dirigida a un p\u00fablico infantil que ha acabado siendo juvenil y adulto. No esperaba para nada la historia fuera como es, sino que esperaba algo sencillo e infantil. Pero estaba muy equivocada y ha sido una historia que me ha sorprendido y me ha encantando. Siempre he dicho y he pensado que me gustan las buenas novelas. Y para m\u00ed las verdaderas buenas historias son aquellas que te lanzan un mensaje entre l\u00edneas del que no eres consciente hasta que acabas el libro. Y esta novela es totalmente ese tipo de libro. Un libro que cuenta una cruda y dura realidad entre las l\u00edneas de la historia de un gorila risue\u00f1o y fantasioso. Quiz\u00e1s esta novela sea infantil, de hecho, lo es. Pero tambi\u00e9n es una novela adulta y para un p\u00fablico capaz de ver entre l\u00edneas algo m\u00e1s all\u00e1. Lo que m\u00e1s me ha gustado es ese mensaje que transmite. C\u00f3mo la autora poco a poco nos hace ver las malas condiciones en las que tienen a los animales en los zool\u00f3gicos y en los circos. Algo de lo que yo soy m\u00e1s que consciente desde hace tiempo y una de las cosas por las que lucho para cambiarlas. Pero me alegra que libros como estos salgan a la venta para que ni\u00f1as los lean y se den cuenta de lo mal que tratan a los animales en esos lugares. M\u00e1s all\u00e1 de eso esta novela tiene un ritmo muy especial que no es ni lento ni veloz, sino que te va metiendo poco a poco en la historia del protagonista que es un gorila. Hace que te vayas adaptando a lo que le ocurre y que empieces a entender su situaci\u00f3n. Es una historia tierna, con un personaje que tiene el coraz\u00f3n tan grande como una catedral. Tiene un lenguaje sencillo y directo, unas ilustraciones muy bonitas y tiernas que acompa\u00f1an una trama que lanza un mensaje muy bueno. Es una novela para adultos y para ni\u00f1as, una novela que educa a las ni\u00f1as en buenos valores y que abre los ojos a muchos adultos ciegos a las condiciones tan p\u00e9sima en las que viven much\u00edsimos animales tan tiernos y buenos como Iv\u00e1n. ...more Rese\u00f1a completa en mi blog: La cueva de Danny. Nunca le he pedido a nadie que me prometa nada, porque las promesas son para siempre, y \"para siempre\" es un lapso de tiempo muy largo. M\u00e1s cuando uno est\u00e1 en una jaula. 4.5 Este libro es simplemente hermoso, si amas a los animales seguro que este libro te encantar\u00e1, un libro con un gran mensaje que todos deber\u00edan saber y aprender, un libro simplemente hermoso. (view spoiler) [La muerte de Stella fue lo m\u00e1s triste de todo, esa parte simplemente fue lkasd Rese\u00f1a completa en mi blog: La cueva de Danny. Nunca le he pedido a nadie que me prometa nada, porque las promesas son para siempre, y \"para siempre\" es un lapso de tiempo muy largo. M\u00e1s cuando uno est\u00e1 en una jaula. 4.5 Este libro es simplemente hermoso, si amas a los animales seguro que este libro te encantar\u00e1, un libro con un gran mensaje que todos deber\u00edan saber y aprender, un libro simplemente hermoso. (view spoiler) [La muerte de Stella fue lo m\u00e1s triste de todo, esa parte simplemente fue lkasdjklasd, super triste. (hide spoiler) ] Creo que le falto algo al libro, un poco predecible, pero sin duda hermoso. Rese\u00f1a completa en mi blog pr\u00f3ximamente. ...more<---C>Katherine Applegate</---C>", "Title": "The One and Only Ivan"},
