{"Comments": "Thanks to everyone who read, reviewed and marked to read LightMasters. I have so enjoyed reading all your reviews, thoughts and opinions.<---F> Wishing ALL the best</---F>. I read LightMasters twice and enjoyed it both times. The book is definitely geared for younger readers ages around ages 8-14 or anyone who may resonate with this kind of story. In my opinion so many YA books are more like adult books these days, so I was pleased to discover this unique book on GoodReads. Also, there were not a lot of distracting back stories which often make me lose interest in books. The book is written in first person, so prepare yourself for entering the mind of a tormented y I read LightMasters twice and enjoyed it both times. The book is definitely geared for younger readers ages around ages 8-14 or anyone who may resonate with this kind of story. In my opinion so many YA books are more like adult books these days, so I was pleased to discover this unique book on GoodReads. Also, there were not a lot of distracting back stories which often make me lose interest in books. The book is written in first person, so prepare yourself for entering the mind of a tormented young lady, who feels like an outcast and totally misunderstood. I could relate to Jessica's angst about losing her parents and being forced to live with her elderly grandparents, who are the funniest characters in the book. Her character was clearly defined and made sense since she was uprooted from her cozy life in Georgia to a small town in Upstate New York. Through Jessica's eyes, the author pays great attention to detail of the setting. It's obvious to me this new life is uncomfortable for her, and she just cannot adapt or relate to it. Her intellect is above average, and she is lumped into a high-school crowd that is too sophisticated for her. She is somewhat of a tomboy and a loner who doesn't have the emotional skills to relate to the older kids. Despite her internal rage,<---M> I found her a bold</---M>, likeable character. The tale starts out on Jessica's 13th birthday. She feels very sad that her grandparents and Georgian friends forgot her. From her bedroom window she reflects briefly about her deceased parents, who were university professors. When an unusual light suddenly appears, Jessica's interest is piqued and she goes outside to investigate. Lured by the light, she finds herself in the forest adjacent to her grandparent's house, where she meets three magical beings who call themselves LIGHTMASTERS. These mystical characters are well defined in appearance, yet remain mysterious in nature. The lead Lightmaster explains to Jessica she has a special destiny. Soon afterwards, she is transported to another dimension and does not understand why. In this dimension, Jessica is faced with many unusual, life-threatening encounters with strange, magical beings who challenge and irritate her. The landscape of this dimension is so rich, I felt like I was transported there. When Jessica returns to back to her usual reality, she finds that she has changed. She starts experiencing unusual dreams and physical sensations that frighten her. At school she is horrified when people appear to her as hideous monsters. This is where the story gets tricky. Jessica's reality becomes so surreal even she doesn't understand what is happening to her. The characters and setting of her school are well defined. After many unsettling encounters with her older peers, teachers, and the alien monster, she panics. Unable to deal, Jessica journeys to her home in Georgia, where she believes she will feel safe. During this adventure, she meets up with more amusing, scary and memorable characters. After returning to her childhood home, she finally realizes she cannot escape her destiny and commits herself to the Lightmaster alliance, whose main goal is to get rid of the monster feeding off of the hate and fear of humanity. In the finale, Jessica decides to embrace her light and does her part to force the alien menace to another dimension where it cannot harm anyone. This was a fast-paced read with an original plot and many interesting characters from an array of various cultures. Ultimately, I feel the author is stressing the important of choosing love over fear. It's a heady, clean read, which means no sex, vulgarity, or extreme violence. I will admit the book is left wide open in certain areas and leaves many unanswered questions, which I liked. Life is messy and this story emphasizes it to the extreme. Ultimately, this book inspired me, and I hope to see a follow-up. I highly recommend Lightmasters: <+++>Number 13</+++> to anyone who enjoys a unique, exciting adventure that makes you think about the importance of embracing love over hate/fear and that anything in life is possible. ...more A friend of mine gave me this book as a gift. I truly enjoyed reading it and wish the author continues with a series because I want more! This was one of the most unique, amazing books I have read in quite some time. This story really made me think about the magic of thoughts. The LightMasters are an alliance of mystics from different cultures, who are guardians of Earth from evil, alien forces. The LightMasters recruit Jessica, who discovers she has magic powers on her 13th birthday. The LightM A friend of mine gave me this book as a gift. I truly enjoyed reading it and wish the author continues with a series because I want more! This was one of the most unique, amazing books I have read in quite some time. This story really made me think about the magic of thoughts. The LightMasters are an alliance of mystics from different cultures, who are guardians of Earth from evil, alien forces. The LightMasters recruit Jessica, who discovers she has magic powers on her 13th birthday. The LightMasters urge her to join their group, so they can defeat a nasty alien beast. I enjoyed following Jessica on this most unique adventure. She's a highly intelligent, but a sad young lass because she lost her parents in a car accident and is forced to live with her grandparents. The cheeky Welsh grandparents are great characters and brought lots of humor to the story. The other characters were all so different and varied in their cultures and races too. The different way the characters spoke in this book was fun. It was so exciting to read. I recommend this book to everyone. It's a fast-paced, action-packed story. It also falls into many categories like action, adventure, fantasy, mystery, sci-fi and thriller. The typesetting was also well spaced so it made it easy on me old eyes. It's truly one of a kind. ...more LightMasters: <+++>Number 13</+++>, is a funny and exciting story.I really like all the characters too. I felt like I was in Jessica's head while she took this amazing journey. I was excited when reading the part when Jessica has to make her way through the magical Otherworld. I really liked the book so much I read it twice and will probably read it again. It was very different from most fantasy books. I especially loved Jessica's nutty grandparents, who talk funny and make older people look really cool. i LightMasters: Number 13, is a funny and exciting story.I really like all the characters too. I felt like I was in Jessica's head while she took this amazing journey. I was excited when reading the part when Jessica has to make her way through the magical Otherworld. I really liked the book so much I read it twice and will probably read it again. It was very different from most fantasy books. I especially loved Jessica's nutty grandparents, who talk funny and make older people look really cool. if you love fantasy, I recommend LightMasters: Number 13 by <---A>M.G. Wells</---A>. It's a real unique book. ...more This book was recommended to me by a middle-school teacher, who's a big fan of independent authors. My 13 y/o son and I enjoyed this unique, interesting story. It was a real page turner and an out-of-the-box kind of fantasy action adventure. The numerous supporting characters were strange, humorous, disgusting and unusual. I admired the main character, Jessica, who had to deal with a lot of horrific, amazing challenges as a 13 year old outcast. Her eccentric Welsh grandparents were amusing and a This book was recommended to me by a middle-school teacher, who's a big fan of independent authors. My 13 y/o son and I enjoyed this unique, interesting story. It was a real page turner and an out-of-the-box kind of fantasy action adventure. The numerous supporting characters were strange, humorous, disgusting and unusual. I admired the main character, Jessica, who had to deal with a lot of horrific, amazing challenges as a 13 year old outcast. Her eccentric Welsh grandparents were amusing and added much comedy and depth. I enjoyed the themes of friendship, loyalty, family and personal empowerment. This was a very fast, easy read and I look forward to reading more from this author. ...more My Girls LOVED This Book & So Did I! I have two young adult ladies, and they went wild over this book. I'm glad I found this book on GoodReads. This story was lots of fun, had lots of action, mystery, awesome adventures and thankfully, no sparkly vampires. They related to the main character, Jessica. We really liked the grandparent characters because they were humorous and enhanced the story. As a single dad, I appreciated the fact this book does not have any curse words, graphic sex or viol My Girls LOVED This Book & So Did I! I have two young adult ladies, and they went wild over this book. I'm glad I found this book on GoodReads. This story was lots of fun, had lots of action, mystery, awesome adventures and thankfully, no sparkly vampires. They related to the main character, Jessica. We really liked the grandparent characters because they were humorous and enhanced the story. As a single dad, I appreciated the fact this book does not have any curse words, graphic sex or violence. For parents looking for an interesting read, I highly recommend Lightmasters for kids of all ages. Overall, a great story with lots of action, suspense and classic storytelling. ...more took me a while to get into but when I did I really liked it Shortly after joining GoodReads, I was lucky to discover this lovely gem, LIGHTMASTERS: Number 13. I particularly liked Jessica\u2019s southern way of speaking. Her unusual slang words were not like anything I\u2019ve ever read before, and it helped me to relate to her as the main character of the story. This story does not begin slow and easy, and it does not even reveal the year in which it is told. It bursts right into the action and it pretty much keeps going throughout the entire story. There are so Shortly after joining GoodReads, I was lucky to discover this lovely gem, LIGHTMASTERS: Number 13. I particularly liked Jessica\u2019s southern way of speaking. Her unusual slang words were not like anything I\u2019ve ever read before, and it helped me to relate to her as the main character of the story. This story does not begin slow and easy, and it does not even reveal the year in which it is told. It bursts right into the action and it pretty much keeps going throughout the entire story. There are so many major themes throughout the book, I had a difficult time keeping track. Grandmother/Grandfather Wyrd seemed so daft at first, then I realized they were two of the most relevant, characters to this intriguing tale. At first, I assumed that they were simply ignorant, stupid and they are not. I did my best to follow Jessica, since most of the tale is told from her point of view. She\u2019s very angry, mindful of others, thoughtful and observant. Jessica\u2019s does her very best to move on, despite the unresolved conflicts in her life. This is the kind of book I believe one consider taking the time to read because the story is so filled with strange people, adversity, a variety of odd language and blatant honesty. The fragmented style of this book weaves an uneven tale of bizarre experiences and circumstances. In my meager opinion, LightMasters: Number 13 is a book that says so much and I want to see more of these characters. ...more After reading ALL the reviews, I took my time reading, LightMasters: Number 13. I felt the readers who appreciated this book were most authentic in their perceptions. This is not your standard lovey-dovey romantic book. I respected the author's message and loved the fact that it was not just another cookie-cutter story about vampires or werewolfs. Yes, it's a gritty story that follows the mind of a 13-year-old girl, so those who simply crave romance, this is not the story for you. I truly was me After reading ALL the reviews, I took my time reading, LightMasters: Number 13. I felt the readers who appreciated this book were most authentic in their perceptions. This is not your standard lovey-dovey romantic book. I respected the author's message and loved the fact that it was not just another cookie-cutter story about vampires or werewolfs. Yes, it's a gritty story that follows the mind of a 13-year-old girl, so those who simply crave romance, this is not the story for you. I truly was mesmerized by Lightmasters. It made me think, took me on many adventures and helped me realize life is a magnificent journey. I don't relate to the reader who compared it to Labyrinth or the one the one who simply dismissed it as \"fluff.\" I recommend this story for those readers whose imaginations are open-minded and limitless. ...more My family and I truly enjoyed LightMasters, especially my daughter. Since she's around Jessica's age, she very much related to her. It was one weird, wild ride. Jessica's grandparents were hilarious as well. The author took the time to create a unique story with an array of interesting, in-depth characters--even the ones that were only featured for a short time. The story was unique, easy to follow and filled with lots of action and adventure and realistic dialogue. As a parent, I was pleased it My family and I truly enjoyed LightMasters, especially my daughter. Since she's around Jessica's age, she very much related to her. It was one weird, wild ride. Jessica's grandparents were hilarious as well. The author took the time to create a unique story with an array of interesting, in-depth characters--even the ones that were only featured for a short time. The story was unique, easy to follow and filled with lots of action and adventure and realistic dialogue. As a parent, I was pleased it was not filled with profanity, sex or extreme violence. I do hope the author does a few more LightMasters books. ...more This book took me on an exciting, non-stop adventure. The main character, Jessica, impressed me. I like strong female characters, and she is certainly strong and brave. She's not wimpy at all and stands up for herself. The book moves very fast, and I got to meet so many interesting characters along the way. The grandparents are very well-described, funny characters. Even though they bicker a lot, they are very endearing. I also enjoyed Jessica's encounters with Scout, Gwendolyn, Whipper and the o This book took me on an exciting, non-stop adventure. The main character, Jessica, impressed me. I like strong female characters, and she is certainly strong and brave. She's not wimpy at all and stands up for herself. The book moves very fast, and I got to meet so many interesting characters along the way. The grandparents are very well-described, funny characters. Even though they bicker a lot, they are very endearing. I also enjoyed Jessica's encounters with Scout, Gwendolyn, Whipper and the other characters she met in the Otherworld. The plot was unusual and easy to follow. It's a fast read and does it's best to entertain and also make you think. I liked that the Lightmasters was a group of men and women from various races and cultures. I would have liked to known more about Jessica's parents and Sartan and how the Lightmasters hooked up. I'm guessing this was done purposely by the author since it was left wide open for another volume. I would like to see a Lightmasters II. ...more I truly enjoyed this book. It was a fast, easy read with lots of interesting themes, characters and a unique story. There were lots of intellectual and spiritual elements that I don't find in many young adult books, and I appreciated the diversity. The story surprised me and kept my interest from beginning to end. It seems the author left this book wide open for a sequel, and I look forward to a second book. Lightmasters was a very thought provoking book for me because there were so many messages about the sorry state of our humanity. It was littered with stereotypical characters, dialogue and scenarios and at first, it frustrated me. I read the book a few times and came to the conclusion the author intentionally provoked me to contemplate the mystery of life itself. Truthfully, I found it more of a statement than a typical story. The number 13 was repeated in the book so many times, I just could no Lightmasters was a very thought provoking book for me because there were so many messages about the sorry state of our humanity. It was littered with stereotypical characters, dialogue and scenarios and at first, it frustrated me. I read the book a few times and came to the conclusion the author intentionally provoked me to contemplate the mystery of life itself. Truthfully, I found it more of a statement than a typical story. The number 13 was repeated in the book so many times, I just could not ignore its meaning. I found this a fascinating adventure filled with so many stories so fragmented and also enticing. It ended with so many unanswered questions, which really peeved me. I\u2019m so used to traditional storytelling and this story is not traditional at all. The author took me on a journey with so many twists and turns, I felt exhausted and somewhat confused. This story engaged me, annoyed me, intrigued me, and left me wanting to know more. ...more Lightmasters was a very different book for me. After a short stint in Jessica's real world, she does her best to adapt to living with her quirky grandparents. At first, the grandparents seemed like complete old farts--literally. Later in the story, their personalities revealed something more. After the first chapter, Jessica was abruptly transported to a strange, alternate dimension called the Otherworld. Here, Jessica endured many challenges and was tested vigorously. The characters in the Othe Lightmasters was a very different book for me. After a short stint in Jessica's real world, she does her best to adapt to living with her quirky grandparents. At first, the grandparents seemed like complete old farts--literally. Later in the story, their personalities revealed something more. After the first chapter, Jessica was abruptly transported to a strange, alternate dimension called the Otherworld. Here, Jessica endured many challenges and was tested vigorously. The characters in the Otherworld were so interesting and diverse. Her adventure in this world was so well described and also somewhat puzzling. Regardless, it held my attention. Upon her return to the real world, her reality is turned upside down. She feels and senses things for which she is unprepared. She sees her classmates and teachers morph into horrible monsters and fears for her life. It's clear Jessica feels extremely uncomfortable in her new skin. She experiences bizarre dreams, discovers her worst enemy is her half brother and comes face to face with a monster that feeds off human fear. This intense one-on-one encounter sends her running to the security of a life she once felt before her parents unfortunate death. Although the the author glossed over her parents death and the mother's involvement with the alien monster, I still found myself eager to know more. I agree with some of the other reviewers that this is a book that encourages you to think about the power of thoughts and the complexities of life. I really enjoyed Lightmasters and strongly feel the author needs to write another. It was very unique, and I would like to know more about these characters. ...more I bought this book based on a friend's recommendation and also downloaded the FREE ebook version. Since I'm on the go most of the time, I often read with my Kindle. Ultimately, I preferred the book version, which is amazing. Thankfully, I brought this book on my most recent travel and read it during my plane ride. As an indie author, I am impressed with M.G. Wells debut novel. The writing is realistic, and the cast of characters are so diverse. The main character, Jessica, is a highly intelligen I bought this book based on a friend's recommendation and also downloaded the FREE ebook version. Since I'm on the go most of the time, I often read with my Kindle. Ultimately, I preferred the book version, which is amazing. Thankfully, I brought this book on my most recent travel and read it during my plane ride. As an indie author, I am impressed with M.G. Wells debut novel. The writing is realistic, and the cast of characters are so diverse. The main character, Jessica, is a highly intelligent 13-year old and is not a happy camper. Not only does she feel displaced living with her eccentric grandparents, she is a thinker. Written in first person, I found it easy to to relate to Jessica. She not the typical kind of gossipy girl interested in boys and high fashion. She's a most introverted character and more of an observer of life. I highly recommend this book to those who like a fun, intellectual adventure/mystery/fantasy. The story is definitely unusual and emphasizes the challenge of being human, choosing love over fear, and believing that anything in life is possible if you open your heart and believe. ...more I loved LIGHTMASTERS. It was filled with lots of adventure, humor, action, fantasy and great characters. It kept my interest from beginning to end. The message of the book was unique and refreshing--choose LOVE over HATE. One of the most fascinating books I've read. The fact that it is an independent book impressed me. Middle-graders, YA, Tweens and adults can all find delight in this fantastic book! I wish M.G. writes a sequel. I really liked this book. It was easy to read and was a lot of fun for me. Like Jana said it's a book for younger readers. This book would make a great movie. My cousin turned me on to Lightmasters, and I really liked it more than I thought I would. It kept my interest and was refreshing to see a 13-year-old heroine for a change. The main character, Jessica, is not your typical whiny, materialistic teenage girl. She's fiery, brooding, highly intelligent, very mature for her age and stands up for herself. She does not play a victim and is an honorable friend and the kind you'd want in your corner any day of the week. Her gassy grandparents are too cheek My cousin turned me on to Lightmasters, and I really liked it more than I thought I would. It kept my interest and was refreshing to see a 13-year-old heroine for a change. The main character, Jessica, is not your typical whiny, materialistic teenage girl. She's fiery, brooding, highly intelligent, very mature for her age and stands up for herself. She does not play a victim and is an honorable friend and the kind you'd want in your corner any day of the week. Her gassy grandparents are too cheeky. They refer to each another as \"Old Dragonbooger\" and \"Blubbery Barnacle.\" Just about everything they say and do is amusing and eccentric. They were the most humorous characters in the story and well written, right down to their witty, Welsh accents. The Lightmasters are very mystical characters and chant magical singsongs. Out of the twelve Dragateen Bo, Torc and Oja are the most prominently featured in the book, and I enjoyed them. I hope to get to know more about the other Lightmasters. I particularly enjoyed Jessica's adventures in the Otherworld, where she is faced with a myriad of stange and interesting beings. Here, she is tested on so many levels I thought she'd crack but she didn't. I was routing for her the entire way and was relieved when she made it to Kiron, where she becomes the 13th Lightmaster. I could relate to the bullying Jessica endured at her school since I, too, was often teased and bullied as many kids are. Once Jessica realizes she has special powers the story takes many twists and turns down to the final showdown with the alien monster, Sartan. Lightmasters was absolutely exciting, thrilling and brilliant in my opinion. I recommended it to anyone who enjoys a good adventure. I truly hope to see more from M.G. Wells, a very gifted author indeed. ...more Come take the journey. I discovered LightMasters through Twitter. The author gets you engaged from the start. Thirteen-year-old, Jessica, is sent to live with her gassy grandparents in a log home in the forest - no spoiler there as it is reflected early on. Moping around in her room because nobody remembered her thirteenth birthday, she is excited when a bright light fills her window from the forest. She rushes outside, and that\u2019s when the journey begins. She\u2019s beckoned further into the woods wher Come take the journey. I discovered LightMasters through Twitter. The author gets you engaged from the start. Thirteen-year-old, Jessica, is sent to live with her gassy grandparents in a log home in the forest - no spoiler there as it is reflected early on. Moping around in her room because nobody remembered her thirteenth birthday, she is excited when a bright light fills her window from the forest. She rushes outside, and that\u2019s when the journey begins. She\u2019s beckoned further into the woods where she meets magical beings. The author takes you into a fantasy world with vivid descriptions and sometimes humorous other-worldly characters. While there, Jessica learns, by way of choices, how to deal with events and situations that teens in the real world, are often forced to deal with. Each challenge Jessica faces, it is up to her which path she ultimately takes. Learning lessons along the way. Though the book is written for YA, any and all ages would thorougly enjoy the adventure. ...more I was alerted to this book on twitter one day! So having read the excerpt on Amazon I decided to download it. I was so happy I did. This takes the reader on a journey with Jessica the main character, she is put to the test by the lightmasters, Jessica has to choose her own path, she has to make her own decisions on her journey into another world. This is a story that a lot of teenagers can relate too, because it raises issues such as bullying and self confidence, and all tribulations that becomi I was alerted to this book on twitter one day! So having read the excerpt on Amazon I decided to download it. I was so happy I did. This takes the reader on a journey with Jessica the main character, she is put to the test by the lightmasters, Jessica has to choose her own path, she has to make her own decisions on her journey into another world. This is a story that a lot of teenagers can relate too, because it raises issues such as bullying and self confidence, and all tribulations that becoming a teenager can bring. Wells has tackled these subjects most eloquently, her writing style is magical. I loved this book! It made me feel young, I quite easily transported myself into Jessica's world. MG Wells is a very talented writer, this book could be read by all ages not just YA. I would highly recommend this book. Well done to the author. I look forward to reading more of her work in the future. ...more LightMasters is toted as YA fiction, but is a story that can be enjoyed by all ages. At times funny, sad, and thoughtful, it is a fantasy at heart, but contains elements of fable as well in that there are lessons to be learned. And although the LightMastes are not animals as you might typically see in fables, they are otherworldly, and the story has morals to impart. Wells weaves a formidable adventure for her heroine, 13 year old Jessica, a journey that exposes her to good and evil, right and wr LightMasters is toted as YA fiction, but is a story that can be enjoyed by all ages. At times funny, sad, and thoughtful, it is a fantasy at heart, but contains elements of fable as well in that there are lessons to be learned. And although the LightMastes are not animals as you might typically see in fables, they are otherworldly, and the story has morals to impart. Wells weaves a formidable adventure for her heroine, 13 year old Jessica, a journey that exposes her to good and evil, right and wrong, presenting tests, of a sort, along the way forcing her to choose which side she will be on. Without going into the details of the story and giving things away, Jessica's challenges reflect many of the struggles facing so many young people as they come of age, including: bullying, self-image, loneliness, etc., and Wells does a beautiful job of handing the reigns to her heroine. It is always about choice, and accepting the responsibilities of our choices. The reader turns the last page with a clear undestanding that there is a light in each of us, and it is up to us to choose whether we will let it shine. In the words of the author: \"Thoughts are magic. Thoughts are everything. Think wisely.\" A recommended read for anyone who wants to set off on a fast-paced adventure with thoroughly likable, and often delightfully amusing characters. ...more I absolutely adored Lightmasters: Number 13. This book was filled with so many interesting characters and a fantastic story. Like many, I adored those nutty Welsh grandparents and Jessica. Any thirteen year old girl feels those growing pains, and Jessica feels them more than most. Lightmasters is an underrated book, by an indie author who makes the characters jump off the page and into your face. The Lightmaster characters were brilliant too. This is a book anyone of any age can read. It has so I absolutely adored Lightmasters: Number 13. This book was filled with so many interesting characters and a fantastic story. Like many, I adored those nutty Welsh grandparents and Jessica. Any thirteen year old girl feels those growing pains, and Jessica feels them more than most. Lightmasters is an underrated book, by an indie author who makes the characters jump off the page and into your face. The Lightmaster characters were brilliant too. This is a book anyone of any age can read. It has so much to say. M.G. Wells is certainly an author I want to read more about. One of my favorite independent books so far. ...more First of all, this book is geared toward the younger young adults, and is apparent through the style and voice of the narrative. It\u2019s very easy to read and very clear! The only thing that distracted me was the fact that this is written in present tense. Present tense\u2026annoys me! However, for everyone who knows me (Friend: You should read this book. Me: *scan, scan* I can\u2019t. It\u2019s in present tense.) I read this book. It wasn\u2019t because I had to, but because the story drew me in! I\u2019m starting to work First of all, this book is geared toward the younger young adults, and is apparent through the style and voice of the narrative. It\u2019s very easy to read and very clear! The only thing that distracted me was the fact that this is written in present tense. Present tense\u2026annoys me! However, for everyone who knows me (Friend: You should read this book. Me: *scan, scan* I can\u2019t. It\u2019s in present tense.) I read this book. It wasn\u2019t because I had to, but because the story drew me in! I\u2019m starting to work around my present tense issues. I am. LOL! I think the thing that pulled me through the story and past the present tense was Jessica. She is a really great character, and I had an easy time liking her. Her grandparents really helped as well. LOL! OMW! They\u2019re a HOOT! But as soon as the Lightmasters show up, the book just takes off!!! I have to say that at this point, I forgot that I was reading present tense (I really can\u2019t let go of this. I know. Try being a friend of mine offering me books to read!). I was sooooooo sucked into the plot, and the story! It literally swept me away! The setting is amazing!! If you\u2019ve been reading my reviews, you know there are two things I love most: Settings and great characters! This one\u2026OMW! I felt like I was there! It\u2019s one of those places that when you\u2019re daydreaming, you want to return to! This is a great, fast read, and it felt original! I didn\u2019t feel like I\u2019d read this book, only a different variation of it before. The characters are just fantastic! You\u2019re going to love them! Should you read it? Yes! DEFINITELY! ...more I frequently read YA because I have a young niece (also a reader) and I like to be able to recommend books she would like, that are also appropriate to her age and maturity level. I found Lightmasters 13 to be a really fun romp from the perspective of the young girl who finds herself thrust into a situation far from her previous experience. Her grandparents, who take over her custody when her parents die, are great characters but Jessica is not familiar with them and their eccentricities or their I frequently read YA because I have a young niece (also a reader) and I like to be able to recommend books she would like, that are also appropriate to her age and maturity level. I found Lightmasters 13 to be a really fun romp from the perspective of the young girl who finds herself thrust into a situation far from her previous experience. Her grandparents, who take over her custody when her parents die, are great characters but Jessica is not familiar with them and their eccentricities or their small, insular town far different from her prior home. So Jessica has to learn to deal with her grandparents, a new school with schoolmates who, naturally, scorn this new, smart, unusual student, and the grief of her parents' loss. Jessica also discovers on her 13th birthday that she has been \"blessed\" with hereditary powers she was previously unaware of - that throw her for a huge loop. This story of her receipt and acceptance of these powers, adaptation to their odd side-effects, and the danger in which they place her is very fast-paced and highlights the slightly tongue-in-cheek angst and hyperactivity of a very young teenager whose journey to come to terms with just growing up is made even more difficult than normal by the additional complications of coming to terms with her powers. I look forward to following Jessica's journey as she explores her powers and the high-stress world of the much-anticipated high school \"experience.\" ...more LightMasters Number 13 is an brillant book! It is packed with great characters, an interesting story and is very well written. The novel starts out on Jessica's 13th birthday. This sad teen discovers she has special powers after being lured into the forest, where she meets the LightMasters. I loved Jessica and her eccentric, Welsh grandparents. They added much needed humour to the story. I found myself laughing out loud on numerous occasions. Having Welsh relatives myself, I could relate to them LightMasters Number 13 is an brillant book! It is packed with great characters, an interesting story and is very well written. The novel starts out on Jessica's 13th birthday. This sad teen discovers she has special powers after being lured into the forest, where she meets the LightMasters. I loved Jessica and her eccentric, Welsh grandparents. They added much needed humour to the story. I found myself laughing out loud on numerous occasions. Having Welsh relatives myself, I could relate to them. Jessica is sad and angry and does her very best despite the fact she is an outcast in a strange, new world. Her parents were killed in a auto accident, and she is relocated from Georgia to New York to live with her grandparents. Jessica is not pleased about this and takes a lot of teasing from her nasty schoolmates. She is smart and does not have the patience to deal with her elderly grandparents, who bicker, burp and fart a lot. LightMasters moves very fast and has a great message to share. I recommend this book for the sheer fact it shows the reader that anything is possible. It also focusses on that fact that no matter who you are, you can make a difference. I also appreciated the strong message of love. This book is so brillant without being moralistic. I recommend LightMasters to anyone who has ever been bullied or felt like an outcast because they were different. I'd give it a million stars if I could. What a fantastic book! ...more Jessica Wyrd is living with her aged grandparents far from home where her parents were killed in an auto accident. She just has her 13th birthday, but no one celebrates it. She's obviously not happy living with her grandparents, nor is she happy living in New York. If you are familiar with some of the tales that abound in parts of New York State, such as in the Catskill Mountains, you just might be a believer in this tale which is beautifully spun by M.G. Wells. On Jessica's special evening, she Jessica Wyrd is living with her aged grandparents far from home where her parents were killed in an auto accident. She just has her 13th birthday, but no one celebrates it. She's obviously not happy living with her grandparents, nor is she happy living in New York. If you are familiar with some of the tales that abound in parts of New York State, such as in the Catskill Mountains, you just might be a believer in this tale which is beautifully spun by M.G. Wells. On Jessica's special evening, she is drawn to a light shining nearby in the woods. The spiral light entices her deeper into the woods and turns into a shimmering woman. She is lead down a path where she is confronted by many obstacles and a group of Lightmasters. She accepts the path they set her upon to discover her truth. She enters a different dimension upon not a yellow-brick road, but a red path to Kiron. While in the Otherworld, she is given many gifts of power and becomes Lightmaster 13, as was her father. She then returns to the real world and the story progresses into many questions and answers for Jessica. This author definitely is very skilled in such a mythical tale. I'm sure there are many more stories she's creating in her very imaginative mind. Though this story is the type most teens would really enjoy, as an adult I found it fascinating. ...more This YA story about an orphaned outcast and a magical series of events is chock full of poignant subject matter that is germaine to the day. Author MG Wells exposes her teen heroine Jessica to bullying, loneliness, feelings of inadequacy and judgmental folks. Yet, under a cloak of magic and adventure, she deftly manages to teach self-confidence, courage, compassion and appreciation for others. This all unfolds while a battle ensues with an all-powerful evil foe who feeds on fear. Ms. Wells paint This YA story about an orphaned outcast and a magical series of events is chock full of poignant subject matter that is germaine to the day. Author MG Wells exposes her teen heroine Jessica to bullying, loneliness, feelings of inadequacy and judgmental folks. Yet, under a cloak of magic and adventure, she deftly manages to teach self-confidence, courage, compassion and appreciation for others. This all unfolds while a battle ensues with an all-powerful evil foe who feeds on fear. Ms. Wells paints her characters and scenes in vivid detail and some of them are doozies! From a majestic blue dragon to a curmudgeon grandmother, a lumbering crusty Lightmaster to students with orange eyes and lizard skin, a gassy grandpa to an enchanted Otherworld and that's just the tip of the iceberg. I couldn't get enough of Jessica's grandparents and would love to read more adventures including this charming pair. What I particularly liked about LIGHTMASTERS 13 is that, although it's a paranormal magical tale, Ms. Wells weaves a wealth of issues teens and adults alike may face every day into an exciting read, where the reader can come away with an uplifted spirit and a positive approach to adversity. This is a must-read for every teen! I enjoyed this book very much and I look forward to Ms. Wells' release of its sequel, THE GATE. ...more Lightmasters: Number 13 follows Jessica T Wyrd through a story of loss, friendship, adolescent harships and courage. After the loss of her parents Jessica lives with her granparents who are fantastically funny and hold many secrets beneath their moody and very 'gassy' exteriors. After a mysterious experience in the woods Jessica is thrown in to a world of magic and mythical beings. But accepting her powers is hard for this sassy little firecracker with her great witty comebacks. She carries the Lightmasters: Number 13 follows Jessica T Wyrd through a story of loss, friendship, adolescent harships and courage. After the loss of her parents Jessica lives with her granparents who are fantastically funny and hold many secrets beneath their moody and very 'gassy' exteriors. After a mysterious experience in the woods Jessica is thrown in to a world of magic and mythical beings. But accepting her powers is hard for this sassy little firecracker with her great witty comebacks. She carries the typical teenage cynicism and disbelief. M.G. Well's word use is inventive, fun and reminded me alot of the Roald Dahl books I read when I was much younger. She creates her own Lightmaster language which again is fun to read and something that is not done often in books. But beneath the fun I found alot of morals about school bullies, acceptance and coming-of-age problems. Lightmasters is a book I could happily read again and again and never get bored. I would love to see a sequel and see how Jessica fares as she becomes older and learn more about the other Lightmasters *hint hint*:p A wonderful, fast paced, gripping story with enough back story to draw you in emotionally, with enough humor to have you laughing out loud and with enough twist and turns to keep you interested the whole way through. Beautifully edited and written. Can't wait to read more! ...more When I read the sample for LIGHTMASTERS I was immediately sucked in by Jessica & the gassy grandparents! I had to buy the book! How many of us... as kids... were desperate to step out of the life we knew & soar to a new world? I did! I was painfully shy, picked on and my dreams were all in purple. Weird huh? I never, ever fit in. M.G. has given those old dreams of mine flight and she added kick-ass humor! I couldn't stop smiling & laughed out loud every time Jessica's grandparents sai When I read the sample for LIGHTMASTERS I was immediately sucked in by Jessica & the gassy grandparents! I had to buy the book! How many of us... as kids... were desperate to step out of the life we knew & soar to a new world? I did! I was painfully shy, picked on and my dreams were all in purple. Weird huh? I never, ever fit in. M.G. has given those old dreams of mine flight and she added kick-ass humor! I couldn't stop smiling & laughed out loud every time Jessica's grandparents said anything! What a pair! Imagine my surprise when... well, I'm not going to tell you. Read the book! Jessica faces her new life wide open! Everything rolls over her, smacks her in the face and she catches up after its all gone by. Well, most of the time. Some of it just smacks her in the face. LIGHTMASTERS #13 is rollicking fun-filled magical adventure, with astounding humor and I had a great time reading it. You will too. Thank you M.G! You ROCK!!! BTW... I'm a dragonbooger, but not for the obvious reasons. I soar too! :) ...more On her thirteenth birthday, Jessica learns she has special powers of perception as she is taken on a magical adventure to the Otherworld. It is here that she meets spiritual beings and learns that thoughts are things, and to think wisely. This enchanted world is juxtapositioned with Jessica's teenage struggles as she deals with school and living with her grandparents. We travel with Jessica as she overcomes her own fearful thoughts and grows from bullied to self condident. Wells has enriched this On her thirteenth birthday, Jessica learns she has special powers of perception as she is taken on a magical adventure to the Otherworld. It is here that she meets spiritual beings and learns that thoughts are things, and to think wisely. This enchanted world is juxtapositioned with Jessica's teenage struggles as she deals with school and living with her grandparents. We travel with Jessica as she overcomes her own fearful thoughts and grows from bullied to self condident. Wells has enriched this novel with colorful characters and punchy dialogue. I love her vivid descriptions and the contrast between the vibrant Otherworld and Jessican's real life. Although this is a YA novel, I would recommedn it to readers of all ages who love an adventure. ...more<---C>M.G. Wells</---C>", "Title": "Number 13"},
