{"Comments": "4.75/5 \u201cWhy look for trouble?\u201d \u201cI'm not looking for trouble.<---F> I don't see it as trouble</---F>.\u201d Alright, <---A>Lee Child</---A> had me glued to the pages in his engrossing suspense/thriller once again. I couldn't put this book down even for a minute! <---C>Jack Reacher</---C> is amazing as always and I admire him even more in this book. Man,<---M> he\u2019s freaking clever! Thankfully</---M>, Neagley helped him with this investigation; otherwise things might turn out differently from what I expected. I can tell I really enjoyed seeing them working 4.75/5 \u201cWhy look for trouble?\u201d \u201cI'm not looking for trouble. I don't see it as trouble.\u201d Alright, Lee Child had me glued to the pages in his engrossing suspense/thriller once again. I couldn't put this book down even for a minute! Jack Reacher is amazing as always and I admire him even more in this book. Man, he\u2019s freaking clever! Thankfully, Neagley helped him with this investigation; otherwise things might turn out differently from what I expected. I can tell I really enjoyed seeing them working together. He needed her to watch his back, and vice versa. Together, they made a great team! \u201cYes,\u201d she said. \u201cI'm pretty good.\u201d \u201cNo, you're not,\u201d Reacher said. \u201cYou're the best. The absolute best there has ever been. You're so damn good it's unbelievable.\u201d \u201cThat's how you've got to think,\u201d Neagley said. \u201cPump yourself up. Get to the point where it's impossible to imagine that these jerky guys with their silly notes are going to get within a million miles of you.\u201d Froelich smiled, briefly. \u201cIs this military-style training?\u201d \u201cFor me it was,\u201d Neagley said. \u201cReacher was born thinking that way.\u201d There\u2019s nothing more exciting and stunning than finding out the way Reacher managed the situation near the end of the book. I must admit he completely took me off guard and the ending wasn\u2019t what I expected. Let\u2019s just say, I never saw it coming. By the way, this was such an enthralling read. It grabbed me from the very start and it not only kept me totally on the edge of my seat, but also kept me guessing right up until the end. I\u2019m very happy I picked this one up. \u201cI'm saying we're all good at something. And that's what I'm good at. Maybe it's the only thing I'm good at. I'm not proud of it, and I'm not ashamed of it, either. It's just there. I can't help it. I'm genetically programmed to win, is all. Several consecutive generations.\u201d ...more I like Reacher. I really do. But Lee Child creates the most flawed scenarios and it drives me batty sometimes. Reacher has been recruited to help deflect an attempt to assassinate the new VP. Now, if we are to believe this story, the Secret Service is employing idiots. For example, Reacher specifies a church tower that could be used by a shooter. Does the SS put a man in the tower to prevent the possible use by an assassin. Or even to be able to see any other possible danger. No. The lead SS age I like Reacher. I really do. But Lee Child creates the most flawed scenarios and it drives me batty sometimes. Reacher has been recruited to help deflect an attempt to assassinate the new VP. Now, if we are to believe this story, the Secret Service is employing idiots. For example, Reacher specifies a church tower that could be used by a shooter. Does the SS put a man in the tower to prevent the possible use by an assassin. Or even to be able to see any other possible danger. No. The lead SS agent says she \"hopes someone checked out the tower.\" Really? Just one of many scenarios that make the entire tension seem fake to me. Just a little bit of realism is necessary for me to buy into the plot. And having the Secret Service make mistakes that I, with none of the necessary skills/experience to do this job, could plan for, is ludicrous. Further, if you manage to become the lead on VP's secret service team, you are not wimpy, scared, easily intimidated woman. In fact, you are probably more of a tough, than most men in the position because you have more to prove. The secret service lead, and current Reacher Lover, is about as easily defeated emotionally and mentally as a house of cards. Child clearly wants to be a liberal minded man about women, but he's stuck in making all of Reacher's love interests the weak girl who needs to be rescued. I wouldn't even mind that, except you don't make a woman who leads a secret service detail into that character. It just doesn't fit. In fact it grates on you - because it just doesn't fit. ...more I was pretty disappointed with the 6th book in the Jack Reacher series. The first few were brilliant - fast, furious and somewhat believable despite the larger than life protagonist and plot lines. <+++>Without Fail</+++> lacked most of the drama that we have come to expect from Lee Child's thrillers. The plot didn't tie up (I won't spoil it, but the antagonists had a very poor motive for killing the VP). There is also one massive plot hole that doesn't add up. It was to do with the 'messages' and one parti I was pretty disappointed with the 6th book in the Jack Reacher series. The first few were brilliant - fast, furious and somewhat believable despite the larger than life protagonist and plot lines. <+++>Without Fail</+++> lacked most of the drama that we have come to expect from Lee Child's thrillers. The plot didn't tie up (I won't spoil it, but the antagonists had a very poor motive for killing the VP). There is also one massive plot hole that doesn't add up. It was to do with the 'messages' and one particular message that the bad guys sent the VP that would have given the game away right off the 'bat'. Completely out of character for them as they do such a good job of attempting not to be identified the whole way through. Froleich was an awful character! Supposedly a strong and professional woman and yet going round and round in circles about an ex from years ago; At one point pretty much a full chapter was made from her blaming Reacher over her ex's death - it drove me insane and could have been completely skipped - not great at all!!! In fact, a fair amount of this book could have been skipped over. I did love Neagley as a character however, and I loved the relationship she has with Reacher - a full set of Reacher-style thrillers could probably be made from her and I would definitely pick them up. I have given this book 2 stars simply because it is a Jack Reacher book - and that in itself makes it worth them. Reacher is still a fantastic character and I still wish he was real, and I still wish he wasn't Tom Cruise on the big screen, and I will still be reading through the rest of the series!!! ...more If you haven't read any Jack Reacher novels. This is a great place to start. The only thing that stopped this book from getting 5 stars was Child's appalling lack of knowledge about Wyoming. Near the end of the novel the protagonist, Jack Reacher and a colleague Frances Neagley, are on his way to the fictional town of Grace, Wyoming which is a couple hours north of Casper \u2013 a town I lived in for two years. Reacher and Neagley take a plane to Denver and decide to drive to Grace. Child describes t If you haven't read any Jack Reacher novels. This is a great place to start. The only thing that stopped this book from getting 5 stars was Child's appalling lack of knowledge about Wyoming. Near the end of the novel the protagonist, Jack Reacher and a colleague Frances Neagley, are on his way to the fictional town of Grace, Wyoming which is a couple hours north of Casper \u2013 a town I lived in for two years. Reacher and Neagley take a plane to Denver and decide to drive to Grace. Child describes the drive as thus: They entered Wyoming after dark, driving north on I-25. They turned left on Cheyenne and picked up I-80. They rolled west to Laramie and headed north. The town called Grace was still five hours away, well beyond Casper. The map showed it nestled in the middle of nowhere between towering mountains on one side and infinite grasslands on the other. \u201cWe\u2019ll stop in Medicine Bow,\u201d Reacher said. \u201cSounds like a cool place. We\u2019ll aim to get to Grace at dawn tomorrow.\u201d Here\u2019s the problem with the above section. I\u2019ve done the drive from Denver to Casper dozens of times. There is no logical reason to take that route. The fastest way to Casper and areas north is to stay on I-25. Any map as well as freeway signs will bear that out. There are plenty of small towns along I-25 that Reacher could have stopped at if he was too tired to make it to Casper. And the next day Reacher and Neagley drive thought Casper and get back on I-25 anyway. And it wasn\u2019t like the page or two of text about their stay in Medicine Bow was vital to the story. It could have just as easily taken place in Wheatland, Douglas, or any of the other small towns along I-25. I don\u2019t know what Child was trying to accomplish with this but that above section really ruined the last 60 or so pages what was a very exciting novel. All I could think about was that if he didn\u2019t know the fastest way from Denver to Casper, what else in the book did he not adequately research. ...more Okay, another good read. Jack is what some may call an \"odd duck\"...sorry for the technical terminology. I mean he refuses to use or have anything that puts him on \"the grid\". He travels around looking like a huge homeless giant, he throws clothes away rather than wash them, no one can fins him... Yet he keeps ending up working with (untrustworthy and corrupt) government agencies and agents. It has to do with him being an incorruptible and bad-ass MP and in this case that his (late) brother was a Okay, another good read. Jack is what some may call an \"odd duck\"...sorry for the technical terminology. I mean he refuses to use or have anything that puts him on \"the grid\". He travels around looking like a huge homeless giant, he throws clothes away rather than wash them, no one can fins him... Yet he keeps ending up working with (untrustworthy and corrupt) government agencies and agents. It has to do with him being an incorruptible and bad-ass MP and in this case that his (late) brother was an incorruptible and intelligent Secret Service agent (sadly unlike Reacher he wasn't a bad-ass). Any way...Reacher gets called in by his brother's old lover (who clearly wants [Jack] Reacher to be his brother) who's newly promoted in the Secret Service and has the VP's retail. There is of course a credible threat from \"someone or someones\" who are willing to kill innocents to make a point. Enjoy. ...more I bought this book when Cody's - historic, tragic Cody's as anyone in the Bay Area knows - was going out of business. It was 40% percent off, and I was casting about for the type of book that would magically unlock the keys to moving plot forward and making pages turn since, ahem, I was having some slight trouble in that regard. I don't know if I learned anything in the craft dept other than that Jack Reacher is an awesome badass, stone-cold professional, crafty and smart hero who actually made I bought this book when Cody's - historic, tragic Cody's as anyone in the Bay Area knows - was going out of business. It was 40% percent off, and I was casting about for the type of book that would magically unlock the keys to moving plot forward and making pages turn since, ahem, I was having some slight trouble in that regard. I don't know if I learned anything in the craft dept other than that Jack Reacher is an awesome badass, stone-cold professional, crafty and smart hero who actually made me care about the sights on sniper guns. I'm not sure I will go out and read more of his righteous mayhem unless I am laid up with a broken leg or somehow get a vacation, but I would recommend this for good, clean riproaring fun. Actually, I was in awe of what I imagine is fairly basic in thriller land - the mastery of arcane detail and handling tons of exposition in a fast-paced manner, managing plot twists, not to mention all the research that must have gone into it. Plus, I couldn't believe I was pulling for a character who's almost a complete cipher. Ah, but he's a badass cipher. ...more 3  or 4 stars, can\u2019t decide. Reacher didn\u2019t beat up as many thugs as I would have liked, but I still enjoyed it. STORY BRIEF: Someone is threatening Armstrong, the newly elected Vice President. Froelich is in charge of the Secret Service team protecting him. She used to date Reacher\u2019s brother who told her about Reacher\u2019s talents and abilities. She hires Reacher to test her security and then to help with the current threat. Reacher hires one of his army buddies to help. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Another go 3 \u00bd or 4 stars, can\u2019t decide. Reacher didn\u2019t beat up as many thugs as I would have liked, but I still enjoyed it. STORY BRIEF: Someone is threatening Armstrong, the newly elected Vice President. Froelich is in charge of the Secret Service team protecting him. She used to date Reacher\u2019s brother who told her about Reacher\u2019s talents and abilities. She hires Reacher to test her security and then to help with the current threat. Reacher hires one of his army buddies to help. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Another good suspenseful exciting escape with tough guys\u2019 tough guy Reacher. I\u2019m doing all of them in order and enjoying each one. However, this one did drag a bit in the middle. It took a long time (most of the book) to solve the mystery and find the bad guys. I think there were only two scenes where Reacher was beating up or shooting bad guys. Other Reacher books had more than that, so I was disappointed. Instead this book is mostly wondering who could be doing this and how are they going to catch them. But it\u2019s better than no Reacher at all. The ending is good. We know Reacher will win because there are sequels. I liked the way Reacher hung up on the bad guy when the bad guy wanted to talk to Reacher. The Secret Service boss was angry because he had asked Reacher to keep the bad guy on the phone for as long as possible, but Reacher didn\u2019t. Reacher explained it\u2019s a game. There were a few other chuckling moments as well. THE SERIES: This is book 6 in the Jack Reacher series. I gave 4 or more stars to all of the first 6 books except for Running Blind, gave that one 2 \u00bd. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 13 hrs and 25 mins. Swearing language: I don\u2019t recall any. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: two referred to not shown. Setting: 2002 various U.S. locations. Book copyright: 2002. Genre: mystery suspense thriller. Ending: Good. ...more I\u2019m a huge fan of Lee Child\u2019s Jack Reacher series, and I think I might have mentioned previously that they were the inspiration for some aspects of Powder Burn and my new \u2018Burn\u2019 series. So I needed no encouragement to pick this one up when it was also chosen as a Goodreads group read. And as usual, I wasn\u2019t disappointed. Jack Reacher appeals to the angry and vengeful core in all of us \u2013 there are no judges or juries in Reacher\u2019s world, just violent retribution dispatched swiftly, without compunct I\u2019m a huge fan of Lee Child\u2019s Jack Reacher series, and I think I might have mentioned previously that they were the inspiration for some aspects of Powder Burn and my new \u2018Burn\u2019 series. So I needed no encouragement to pick this one up when it was also chosen as a Goodreads group read. And as usual, I wasn\u2019t disappointed. Jack Reacher appeals to the angry and vengeful core in all of us \u2013 there are no judges or juries in Reacher\u2019s world, just violent retribution dispatched swiftly, without compunction or mercy and, in this case, unusually cold-bloodedly. The book was written right after the 9/11 tragedy and I think its influence can be seen in the way that in Without Fail it is acceptable for Reacher to assassinate the bad guys. In many of the other Jack Reacher books that I\u2019ve read, Reacher\u2019s own life is at stake from quite early in the story, and so the ruthless killing of the bad guys is softened morally by his need to survive. This is not the case in Without Fail where he could and should have left them to the Secret Service or the FBI \u2013 both agencies are intrinsic to the story \u2013 but instead goes after them with intent to kill. Child does a good job of making this aspect as believable as possible, and as the issue only comes up at the very end, it doesn\u2019t spoil what is otherwise a fine story. The rest of the book has the usual impeccable mix of tight plotting, tighter writing and great minor characters, and I had no problem awarding four stars. ...more I'm gradually reading the Jack Reacher books in order, and this is the sixth. After making it through nearly half the extant books, I'd have to say that the other Jack series (Repairman Jack by F. Paul Wilson) is the more consistently entertaining, that is if you don't ...mind a little supernatural horror with your vigilante action. The previous Jack Reacher outing, Echo Burning, was a superb Texas gothic tale. But this one strains credibility in a couple of ways. First, I don't buy the motivati I'm gradually reading the Jack Reacher books in order, and this is the sixth. After making it through nearly half the extant books, I'd have to say that the other Jack series (Repairman Jack by F. Paul Wilson) is the more consistently entertaining, that is if you don't ...mind a little supernatural horror with your vigilante action. The previous Jack Reacher outing, Echo Burning, was a superb Texas gothic tale. But this one strains credibility in a couple of ways. First, I don't buy the motivation of the villains. Second, if they're as competent as everyone in the story believes them to be, there's no way they'd telegraph their crimes the way they did. I'm going to leave it at that so as not to spoil the story. And Jack. Dude! You know how to use every weapon known to man! Please, please, please learn to operate a washing machine! ...more This is a bare-bones thriller, a puzzle played-out in blood and death, with almost no emotional involvement. Jack Reacher stands at the centre, almost more puzzling than the mystery he is trying to solve. He has insights that stretch credibility, based on a hyper-aware level of observation, remarkable recall and a willingness to run with intuition when logic can't get him there. Yet, the man who sees everything, seems to have no desire to engage with the world unless it is to exact revenge. He li This is a bare-bones thriller, a puzzle played-out in blood and death, with almost no emotional involvement. Jack Reacher stands at the centre, almost more puzzling than the mystery he is trying to solve. He has insights that stretch credibility, based on a hyper-aware level of observation, remarkable recall and a willingness to run with intuition when logic can't get him there. Yet, the man who sees everything, seems to have no desire to engage with the world unless it is to exact revenge. He likes strong, beautiful women, but not enough to stick around with any of them. He has no home, no luggage, no particular aim in life other than to roam around the US, acting as a lightning rod for storms of violence. In \"Without Fail\" Reacher is helping the American Secret Service to protect the life of the Vicepresident elect. Yeah, right. He even has a partner, a slightly shorter, female version of himself: fit, good-looking, no social skills and absolutely deadly. The love interest is a paint-by-numbers set-up, designed to give Jack something to lose and someone to revenge. There's some fun procedural stuff, giving an insider's view of the Secret Service and some deductive reasoning that makes Reacher into a fierce, combat-seasoned, sniper-trained version of Sherlock Holmes. When Reacher finally works out the puzzle that has defeated the Secret Service and the FBI, the rationale for the hell that has been let loose is so unlikely that, at first, I thought it was a red herring. The book ends rather suddenly. It felt like Child lost interest once the puzzle was solved but felt obliged to have Reacher show his predator side and tidy away all the loose ends at the same time. It's not a bad book. It passes the time. It has some good twists. It has guns with all the technical specs explained and many of the sentences are short. Very short. This one is for the Jack Reacher fans. I wrote this review as soon as I finished the book because, a week from now, I'm sure most of it will have slipped from my memory and all that will be left is a silhouette of Jack Reacher with the words \"No one messes with me or mine\" written underneath. ...more Have you heard of Jack Reacher? He's become a favorite among a handful of people I know. We were each introduced to Reacher at one time or another by the same person, who conveniently has almost every book written about Reacher. Lee Child's brainchild is a gargantuan man, ex-military, a nomad, and deadly (both to enemies and to women). In previous books, he would tell time without looking at a watch. But in Without Fail, he was constantly depending on his watch. Confusing. Also, this one is less Have you heard of Jack Reacher? He's become a favorite among a handful of people I know. We were each introduced to Reacher at one time or another by the same person, who conveniently has almost every book written about Reacher. Lee Child's brainchild is a gargantuan man, ex-military, a nomad, and deadly (both to enemies and to women). In previous books, he would tell time without looking at a watch. But in Without Fail, he was constantly depending on his watch. Confusing. Also, this one is less action (and violence) packed than the ones I've read before; a tad too tame. Usually, Lee Child is very creative when it comes to horrifying me--he's not the type who will bank on the typical blood and gore. (You'd think with a character that uses guns a lot, you'd know how people will get killed; but Lee Child is more imaginative than that.) That aside, everything in Without Fail was still quintessential Reacher. He emanates a clear don't-mess-with-me-or-my-friends vibe that makes you want someone to cross him. Of course someone will, which is why me and my friends keep borrowing the paperbacks and passing it on to one another. Lee Child's Reacher books are plot driven and easy to read (perfect for long MRT rides), peppered with interesting military stuff (intriguing for clueless civilians like me). Absorbing, thrilling, doesn't demand much attention or comprehension; a good book to read in between other more literary fare, every now and then. What really hooked me to Jack Reacher is the consistent portrayal--in description, in language, in plot twists, in his action and decisions, everything is crafted to make this fictional character come alive. When I read Lee Child's books, as in Without Fail, Reacher is undeniably more than just a hero in a novel; he's someone I've met before and is now writing me a long letter to let me know what mess he's getting himself into. I'm giving 2 stars for Without Fail, but 3 or 4 for these other Jack Reacher books: The Hard Way, Back Luck and Trouble. ...more Hi I really enjoy the Jack Reacher books, so far, with the Reacher books read, this is my second favourite behind One Shot. Although nice to see a regular character helping and returning in this book to work with Reacher. Always readable, gripping. As always he is the ladies man. very enjoyable regards Sean This is one of the few Audiobook experiences I have and of course I went on to read the paperback copy of the book later on. In this instalment of the Jack Reacher Series, Jack is recruited to find any loopholes in the Vice President\u2019s security coverage. The Secret Service is pretty sure of an imminent attempt on the VP\u2019s life and so they want a fresh pair of eyes on their plans to find out any holes in the plan that they might have missed. While the opponents may have had a good plan to carry ou This is one of the few Audiobook experiences I have and of course I went on to read the paperback copy of the book later on. In this instalment of the Jack Reacher Series, Jack is recruited to find any loopholes in the Vice President\u2019s security coverage. The Secret Service is pretty sure of an imminent attempt on the VP\u2019s life and so they want a fresh pair of eyes on their plans to find out any holes in the plan that they might have missed. While the opponents may have had a good plan to carry out the assassination, they are really not prepared for Jack Reacher. Who is ever prepared for him anyway? This book features Frances Neagley! She was a sergeant in the military who has in the past worked under Jack Reacher. She is a character who appears in a number of the books and one of my favourite characters. Having worked and trained under Reacher, she is \u201calmost\u201d a female version of Jack Reacher. So having her is always an additional perk for me (not that I really need one) to read the Series. The plot in the book is one of the best in the series. I loved how it provides a way for us to see Jack Reacher\u2019s understanding of human nature and his deductive skill. With Frances by his side, Jack Reacher takes on the perpetrators which turn into a sort of a race. With mind games being played on both ends, this plot explores the strength of the characters to another level on the whole. Also, this is one of the few books that actually explore Jack Reacher\u2019s personal relationship. With the lead agent of Secret Service being Joe Reacher\u2019s ex, we get to explore a bit more about Joe and Jack\u2019s relationship with him. If you love a thriller, then this is surely for you! http://www.ddsreviews.in/2016/09/with... ...more Fine 6th Jack Reacher -- Secret Service thriller !! We have read the entire Lee Child / Jack Reacher series, so obviously we enjoy these action packed thrillers about nice guy, smart guy, ex-MP Reacher. \"Without Fail\" is no exception, and a fast start -- a near-miss assassination attempt on Vice President-elect Armstrong -- soon leads the Secret Service to haul in Jack to act as a consultant and help them try to penetrate their security surrounding the veep so that they can plug any loopholes. Us Fine 6th Jack Reacher -- Secret Service thriller !! We have read the entire Lee Child / Jack Reacher series, so obviously we enjoy these action packed thrillers about nice guy, smart guy, ex-MP Reacher. \"Without Fail\" is no exception, and a fast start -- a near-miss assassination attempt on Vice President-elect Armstrong -- soon leads the Secret Service to haul in Jack to act as a consultant and help them try to penetrate their security surrounding the veep so that they can plug any loopholes. Using an old Army friend, tough gal Frances Neagley, and teaming up (after hours as well!) with M.E. Froelich, who heads the responsible SS security team, Reacher is soon puzzling over hand delivered messages and video tapes before the more proactive action gets things heated up. That Froelich is an ex-lover of Jack's now deceased brother Joe only adds to the intrigue and gets Jack more involved emotionally than usual. Before it's over, a wild movie-like SUV chase out in Montana snow country finally leads to the real perpetrators. And who will get who in the end? The Reacher series is loaded with clever plots, non-stop action and thrills. Rarely a dull moment keeps paging turning quickly; and Child's satisfying endings, often involving vigilante justice on the part of our hero to set things straight, rarely fail to please. While the premise of this one seemed a little less plausible than his other novels, Child's inside look at the Secret Service served as a good foil for Reacher. We wouldn't mind seeing more of his sidekick Neagley in future books; and as usual, this story just leaves us anxious for the next Jack Reacher outing! ...more I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social con I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies. He embraces it. Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values. He defends those he loves, those he does allow into his world, with a loyalty bar none while never letting go of the notion that he is alone and being perfectly comfortable with that. I read one, and within two months read all 15 books with an appetite that couldn't get enough. Enough said, HR ...more Toni Morrison has set me free. Not in the \"Oh, her Beloved is a Masterpiece! I'll never be the same again!\" kinda way. But this Harvard professor, Nobel winner admitted that she reads consumes loads of mysteries. So my dirty little habit is validated. Lee Child is a writer with an austere mind. I like that glimpse into foreign territory. His characters are also logical and nimble enough to surprise. Jack Reacher, the protagonist of his books, was an elite ex-military cop. He's now a vagrant by pre Toni Morrison has set me free. Not in the \"Oh, her Beloved is a Masterpiece! I'll never be the same again!\" kinda way. But this Harvard professor, Nobel winner admitted that she reads consumes loads of mysteries. So my dirty little habit is validated. Lee Child is a writer with an austere mind. I like that glimpse into foreign territory. His characters are also logical and nimble enough to surprise. Jack Reacher, the protagonist of his books, was an elite ex-military cop. He's now a vagrant by preference who can't help but find some worthwhile tussle in each book. Child creates clever plots that require a bit of thinking. I have a tin ear so I can't tell when dialogue crackles, but he seems to do fine. Just read one, start at the beginning. I hope you'll like.... This series isn't for everyone, although Child's sales suggest otherwise. All I know is that I often find that it's 2am and I've got to finish the book regardless of whether I've read it before. ...more Well, this was a pleasant surprise. It was chosen by someone in our office book club and I thought, ugh, isn't this guy one of those Tom Clancy/Robert Ludlum clones? I was expecting terrible dialogue and a lot weapons porn (\"He shouldered the TEK45 version 4.5 missile launcher and snapped in the the specially modified Glockenspiel drone detector, stolen from a former KGB armory in Turkistan\") , but it turned out to be a clever, twisty thriller. It reminded me a bit of a Thomas Perry novel becaus Well, this was a pleasant surprise. It was chosen by someone in our office book club and I thought, ugh, isn't this guy one of those Tom Clancy/Robert Ludlum clones? I was expecting terrible dialogue and a lot weapons porn (\"He shouldered the TEK45 version 4.5 missile launcher and snapped in the the specially modified Glockenspiel drone detector, stolen from a former KGB armory in Turkistan\") , but it turned out to be a clever, twisty thriller. It reminded me a bit of a Thomas Perry novel because it had so much of interesting detail about how things work, from how the Secret Service transports a VP to how to buy a good coat. I was intrigued enough to buy a \"Lee Child Gently Used Paperbacks Lot\" on ebay. ...more Barely makes the four-star rating because of Frances Neagley, who is both a smart, ruthless ass-kicker like Reacher as well as being an interesting character. I really wish Child would include more of her and less of the capable but ultimately forgettable girlfriend-sidekicks that populate the books. This was a fairly disappointing continuation of Jack Reacher's drifter ways for me. A threat exist against the Vice President and suddenly Jack finds himself employed to seek holes in the VP's security - that was about the jeist of the story. Without Fail (Jack Reacher #6), Lee Child \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u0633\u0648\u0621 \u0642\u0635\u062f - \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 06 - \u0627\u0632 \u0633\u0631\u06cc \u062c\u06a9 \u0631\u06cc\u0686\u0631\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u0644\u06cc \u0686\u0627\u06cc\u0644\u062f\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f \u0639\u0628\u0627\u0633 \u0622\u0628\u0627\u062f\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u062a\u0646\u062f\u06cc\u0633\u060c 1394\u061b \u062f\u0631 540 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9786001821585\u061b Without Fail\u200e (Jack Reacher #6), Lee Child \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u0633\u0648\u0621 \u0642\u0635\u062f - \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 06 - \u0627\u0632 \u0633\u0631\u06cc \u062c\u06a9 \u0631\u06cc\u0686\u0631\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u0644\u06cc \u0686\u0627\u06cc\u0644\u062f\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f \u0639\u0628\u0627\u0633 \u0622\u0628\u0627\u062f\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u062a\u0646\u062f\u06cc\u0633\u060c 1394\u061b \u062f\u0631 540 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9786001821585\u061b ...more Anyone following my progression through the Jack Reacher novels knows of my strange love-hate relationship, whereby I label the Jack Reacher novels as guilty pleasure novels rather than novels I go out of my way to read. I tend to hand out three star ratings to the books, having only given one other four star rating prior to this one\u2026 and I think \u2018Without Fail\u2019 has earned the spot as my favourite Jack Reacher novel (thus far in the series). The Jack Reacher novels are never perfect. I know the di Anyone following my progression through the Jack Reacher novels knows of my strange love-hate relationship, whereby I label the Jack Reacher novels as guilty pleasure novels rather than novels I go out of my way to read. I tend to hand out three star ratings to the books, having only given one other four star rating prior to this one\u2026 and I think \u2018Without Fail\u2019 has earned the spot as my favourite Jack Reacher novel (thus far in the series). The Jack Reacher novels are never perfect. I know the diehard fans will disagree with me, but I stand by that statement. I could write a lengthy list of why this is so, but my biggest issue has always been with Lee Child\u2019s writing style. I say it with every Jack Reacher novel I read \u2013 I really do hate such a simple writing style. This is my sixth time saying it, and I\u2019ll go on to say it with every other Reacher novel I read, but I favour my flowery yet lyrical prose. Lee Child simply states it as it is. There is nothing wrong with that\u2026 yet it does become quite drab when things get repetitive. Things are not always as bad as in Echo Burning where we\u2019re reminded every other sentence of the intense Texas heat \u2013 but he is always rather repetitive in his writing. It\u2019s just the way he writes, and I cannot bring myself to love it. Going straight from Echo Burning into Without Fail meant I wasn\u2019t as put off as I would usually be \u2013 I was on the verge of tears of joy for no longer being reminded of the heat in Texas, even if he did focus upon the cold weather a wee bit too much when he wanted to up the word count \u2013 but the fact remains: I do not consider the books to be the best written fiction on the market. Another issue is with the inconsistencies with the character of Jack Reacher. He will always be a wonderful antihero \u2013 I cannot deny that \u2013 yet he does seem to change somewhat between each book. The fact that he says little is consistent, the fact that he kicks butt is consistent\u2026 but he changes in other more subtle ways. What annoyed me with this book is the way Jodie is suddenly forgotten. I understand that Jack Reacher is not going to hold on to her forever\u2026 but not a single thought is given to her when females make a move on him. In Echo Burning, Jack was happy to think about her when things were getting potentially hot\u2026 this time we have nada. Jodie may well not exist. He does not think of her at all. This is just me being picky, though. As I\u2019ve already said, this is my favourite Reacher book. At first, the book will leave you questioning many things, but what you need to remember is that the story does not reflect reality. What I mean by this, is the US government is capable of protecting the men in power. Or, at least, I assume such to be the case. If the Secret Service were unable to protect the powers that be, I would be hearing about it even on my little island across the sea. So yeah, it was a bit of a farfetched idea \u2013 but it was fun. It pulls you in. It allows you to see Jack in his element. It worked to maintain momentum throughout. Unlike some of the prior Jack Reacher books, this one pulled me in from the star. The story gets going within a couple of chapters, rather than hundreds of pages passing before we get any action. This was a massive plus, getting rid of one of my issues with the other Reacher books. Once the story stars, it mostly maintains momentum. There are tangents in which we get caught up in the past, but it plays in with the story. I didn\u2019t particularly enjoy this aspect, but it worked with where things were heading. Although, at the same time, they could have been cut and the book would have had a similar effect. Nevertheless, it added depth to some of the characters from the past and we cannot argue with that. Whilst there were some predictable moments (read some as quite a few), the fact that the action was constant kept me content. I feel like I\u2019m repeating myself, but it really was a massive improvement. I love Jack Reacher for the action. I love it when he is in his element. I\u2019d rather read about him chasing down the bad guys than about him walking his lonely road across a continent, and because of that I enjoyed this one a lot more than I enjoyed Echo Burning. Overall, whilst it may not be the opinion of all, this is my favourite Reacher novel thus far. ...more Sixth in the Jack Reacher thriller series revolving around an ex-military policeman whose brother believes in him completely. His mandate? To assassinate the Vice-President. My Take It's definitely a Reacher with his deductive abilities, but there's something missing in this one for me. It might've been the suits... M.E. was clever in the way she found Jack. I do enjoy reading Reacher's analysis of situations and people. The way he assesses the threat and calculatingly determines the best approach t Sixth in the Jack Reacher thriller series revolving around an ex-military policeman whose brother believes in him completely. His mandate? To assassinate the Vice-President. My Take It's definitely a Reacher with his deductive abilities, but there's something missing in this one for me. It might've been the suits... M.E. was clever in the way she found Jack. I do enjoy reading Reacher's analysis of situations and people. The way he assesses the threat and calculatingly determines the best approach to deal with it. And he's do damn cheeky about it! Interesting bit about the origin of the Secret Service. And ironic. As was Reacher's assessment of the Lone Gunman theory per the Warren Report. The comments M.E. made about studying video and literature for possible ways to assassinate someone have stuck with me as well. A sad bit as well when M.E. and Reacher get into it about whose fault it was that Joe died. Interesting analysis. Then there's Reacher's comment about his family. They don't own property. Nurture. Child confused me thoroughly with that one \"message\". I kept going back and re-reading it. There is something to be said for knowing how to proofread, knowing history, when it provides one of the clues that Reacher finds. The cleaners being scared...was this ever explained? Maybe we should just shoot all the bullies... The Story Threats to the vice president-elect are all taken seriously by the Secret Service. But there's something about these particular threats that find M.E. Froelich considering Jack Reacher's words and recommendations very seriously. It may be five years later, but even M.E.'s boss has faith in Joe's judgment. M.E. finds him in Atlantic City, protecting an old couple---she sings like Dawn Penn; he's a keyboardist. The deal is the Secret Service escorts them out of town when they finish their act. They're planning on a gig in New York City. The Characters Jack Reacher is an ex-military policeman and he's enjoying taking his time exploring the country he's protected for thirteen years but so rarely spent any time in. He's one of those guys who can't take injustice and, lord, he can be pretty cold-hearted. I like that in a man. Frances Neagley was a master sergeant under Jack but now works as a security consultant. Hired by Jack. M.E. Froelich is promoted ahead of other men in the Secret Service to head up the vice president-elect's protective detail. Her boss, Stuyvesant , thinks she's earned it. Since she's a woman, the others are questioning it. Nendick is their tech guy. Swain is a researcher with the Office of Protection Research (the ones who watch the movies); he worked with Joe. Brook Armstrong is the vice president-elect. A nobody from North Dakota brought into prominence. Bannon is the FBI agent in charge of this assassination attempt. He thinks it's an inside job. Detectives Richard and Peter Wilson . The Cover and Title It's a pearlescent cover\u2014a pearly white with splotches of gold fading diagonally from top right to bottom left through more gold that fades into copper. The lower left corner is a collage of the U.S. Treasury seal, a law enforcement shield, and what appears to be the deeply grooved lines of a map. The title is what M.E. was reaching for, what the Secret Services strives to achieve, what Jack Reacher is all about, Without Fail . ...more Jack Reacher is a man\u2019s man, but also a woman\u2019s man. This is the enigma. He lives by his own code of conduct; a law unto himself. He believes in taking an eye for an eye, especially in retaliation for the death of someone he cares about (but not necessarily). Jack is judge, jury, executioner \u2013 fans might say \u201cavenger\u201d. The characters that Lee Childs paints are so nasty; they do not seem to deserve our understanding and certainly not our forgiveness. But do they not deserve the rule of law? Where Jack Reacher is a man\u2019s man, but also a woman\u2019s man. This is the enigma. He lives by his own code of conduct; a law unto himself. He believes in taking an eye for an eye, especially in retaliation for the death of someone he cares about (but not necessarily). Jack is judge, jury, executioner \u2013 fans might say \u201cavenger\u201d. The characters that Lee Childs paints are so nasty; they do not seem to deserve our understanding and certainly not our forgiveness. But do they not deserve the rule of law? Where Jack is concerned, everyone, from lovers to cops to governments, turns a blind eye. And so do we. Why? Why do we suspend our beliefs in jurisprudence and allow, yes, even cheer for this lone killer of killers (kidnappers, torturers, terrorists). He is in perpetual motion and everywhere he goes, something bad happens, someone is murdered, and he has to kill the murderer. Sure, he\u2019s good looking, he is fit, he was given military honours, he comes from a respectable family, he is a good lover, he is well-spoken, well-read, enjoys music, and is not a food, wine, or clothes snob. Male readers can relate to him, but why are female readers drawn to him? Would they feel safer if they knew someone like him in real life? It seems to me that this is a caricature idolized by a society which believes that guns are necessary for ones\u2019 personal safety. I do not hold that belief. Reacher would have been at home in the wild west \u2013 for him, the whole country, and perhaps the world, still IS the wild west. I admit, I have probably read a half dozen or more Reacher novels. They are well-written, but easy and predictable (if sometimes unbelievable) stories that don\u2019t require much thinking on my part. I could rush through one in a couple of days, count another book read, and forget about it. And I did enjoy them. \u201cWithout Fail\u201d was probably the longest and I thought it dragged on a bit too much. However, after reading \u201cWithout Fail\u201d, and knowing that a new film has been made with Tom Cruise, making the series potentially even more popular, I started to question my own motivations. I don\u2019t need to support vigilantism, even in fiction, and I don\u2019t need to read any more \u201cReacher\u201d. I\u2019d recently given up reading \u201cSpencer\u201d novels by Robert B. Parker, because I no longer liked the writing quality. Spencer was even more of a caricature, but flatter, and his actions outside the law were justified by psycho-babble. ...more While reading this installment of the Jack Reacher series, I remarked to my fiancee that this just might be the best one so far. She lauhed at me, and chided that I have said that for every one that I have read so far. She's right. I probably have. But, to me, that's the beauty of this series. It's fun to see the progression, not just in Child's plotting but in his writing in general. It would be difficult, I would think, to keep outdoing your own cleverness. That's one of the dangers of writing While reading this installment of the Jack Reacher series, I remarked to my fiancee that this just might be the best one so far. She lauhed at me, and chided that I have said that for every one that I have read so far. She's right. I probably have. But, to me, that's the beauty of this series. It's fun to see the progression, not just in Child's plotting but in his writing in general. It would be difficult, I would think, to keep outdoing your own cleverness. That's one of the dangers of writing in this particular genre: eventually, you're going to have to start repeating yourself. Child doesn't repeat himself, though. In fact, this time it seems that his background as a television writer can't help but start rearing its head. Take the finale, for example. It's a cinematic bloodbath that takes place in the middle of a snowstorm. Red blood on fresh virgin white snow would look fantastic in a movie! This installment is top-notch. The plot is well-paced and finally assembles itself like a finished jigsaw. The action is well-written and not too over-the-top. The suspense is often taut (one sequence, in which the Vice President decides to walk through the streets of D.C. to a meeting unaware that he is a target, is almost Hitchcockian in tone). The character of Reacher himself is more believable this time, too, actually making a few errors that cause a detriment to completion of the case. This installment's biggest flaws are the same as the previous efforts. Namely, Child doesn't seem to realize how downright creepy some of Reacher's sexual exploits are (this time it's the ex-girlfriend of his late brother). Also, the secretive nature of Jack Reacher sometimes allows Child to make things up as he goes (Wow! Reacher is an expert marksman, too?) and that's kind of like cheating in my opinion. The prime example of this in this chapter is the character of Neagley. If the two characters are so close and have been working together so long, then why hasn't she been mentioned before? Overall, the flaws of this book are minor and do not affect a reader's enjoyment. A reader does, after all, get whatthey pay for. I think I'm sticking to my mid-read assessment: this is the best installment in this series so far. ...more The next in the series, and Jack Reacher time has come around again. This time Reacher is approached by the Secret Service to perform a secret audit of their protetion detail for the vice president elect. Reacher realises immediately that there's going to be more to it than that \u2013 in fact, Reacher audits the protection so quickly that it doesn't even make it into the book, instead he briefly describes his report to the agent in charge, M.E. Froelich. We're reintroduced, indirectly, to Reacher's b The next in the series, and Jack Reacher time has come around again. This time Reacher is approached by the Secret Service to perform a secret audit of their protetion detail for the vice president elect. Reacher realises immediately that there's going to be more to it than that \u2013 in fact, Reacher audits the protection so quickly that it doesn't even make it into the book, instead he briefly describes his report to the agent in charge, M.E. Froelich. We're reintroduced, indirectly, to Reacher's brother \u2013 M.E. and her colleagues all worked with him before he died in the first in the series, Killing Floor , due to the apparent connection between the Secret Service and the Treasury department \u2013 and consequently gain a little more understanding into both Reacher and his brother, as well as their somewhat distant relationship to each other. While M.E. is obviously the 'love interest' for this novel, we're also introduced to Neagley \u2013 an ex-MP colleague, now working as a private contractor \u2013 who Reacher initially brings in to help with the audit. She's very deliberately presented as a character with issues that aren't explained to us in this novel (she doesn't like to be touched \u2013 at all), I assume that means that she'll be making a reappearance in a later novel so Lee Child can develop her a little more. Does Child have a recurring motif of sexual assault? It was a large theme of Running Blind and now my assumed background for Neagley. Slower than some of the previous novels, more detective than thriller. I especially liked that we got occasional single paragraphs from the bad guy's point of view, enough to tease us but not enough to class them as a point of view character. Probably my new favourite in the Reacher series since Tripwire . ...more It all began with a proposition. \"How would you like to assassinate the Vice President?\" Reacher is contacted by the Veep's Secret Service lead agent, in hopes of finding some of the loopholes in the current coverage. After learning the agent's his dead brother's ex, Reacher must take a moment to reassess the situation, but soon takes the job and puts his knowledge to the test. After showing the Service many of their faults, Reacher is pulled in to learn of a set of letters seeking to assassinat It all began with a proposition. \"How would you like to assassinate the Vice President?\" Reacher is contacted by the Veep's Secret Service lead agent, in hopes of finding some of the loopholes in the current coverage. After learning the agent's his dead brother's ex, Reacher must take a moment to reassess the situation, but soon takes the job and puts his knowledge to the test. After showing the Service many of their faults, Reacher is pulled in to learn of a set of letters seeking to assassinate the Vice President elect. Reacher works with the Service to piece together the truth behind the threat and who might be behind it. Working so closely with others, Reacher is bound to let his emotions flood the logical part of his brain, if only briefly. As the race for the White House is comfortably complete, the race to ensure the running mate makes it to the inauguration rests directly on Reacher's shoulders. Child at his best, fills the story with thrill, humour, and his own dose of politics. In yet another Reacher novel, the characters and settings change, leaving the narrative to keep the story moving quickly. Reacher's life is slowly peeled back, adding tidbits here and there, but also keeping much in the shadows. For the first time since the opening novel in the series, Reacher's brother, Joe, and their relationship plays a central role in the story. Avid readers will enjoy the ongoing development of the characters while enjoying fresh faces to spin the tale in a new direction. Kudos, Mr. Child for pushing all the right buttons and making this political thriller of sorts a Reacher-esque classic. ...more The 6th novel in the Jack Reacher series was published in early 2002, but had to have been completed before the events of 9/11 because there is no mention of any heightened security anywhere. That being stated, I was disappointed in one aspect of this novel; (SPOILER) Jack Reacher is recruited to work closely with the CIA's detail in charge of providing security for the Vice President-elect. But throughout the story, Reacher, who doesn't own anything but the clothes on his back (and even those a The 6th novel in the Jack Reacher series was published in early 2002, but had to have been completed before the events of 9/11 because there is no mention of any heightened security anywhere. That being stated, I was disappointed in one aspect of this novel; (SPOILER) Jack Reacher is recruited to work closely with the CIA's detail in charge of providing security for the Vice President-elect. But throughout the story, Reacher, who doesn't own anything but the clothes on his back (and even those are borrowed), is given carte blanche access to CIA offices and is taxied around in their vehicles but nobody thinks to give him or his other ex-military partner a radio, cell phone or even a pager to get in touch with them as they be-bop around the \"secure\" sites that are established surrounding the D.C. area. Everyone else is described as having a radio mike and earpiece because communication is key for this type of scenario, but not our hero. Aside from that obvious flaw, it's a good read, if only to get to the next Reacher novel. ...more If you've been following my reviews very long you know that I am a HUGE fan of this series by Lee Child. Without Fail wasn't quite as strong as the others I've read thus far.. but still a pretty good read. A Secret Service agent does the impossible-- she tracks down Jack Reacher (she used to date his brother Joe) She is the head of the security detail for the newly elected Vice-President and she asks Reacher to to examine if her operation is truly protecting the V.P. Reacher shows her some holes If you've been following my reviews very long you know that I am a HUGE fan of this series by Lee Child. Without Fail wasn't quite as strong as the others I've read thus far.. but still a pretty good read. A Secret Service agent does the impossible-- she tracks down Jack Reacher (she used to date his brother Joe) She is the head of the security detail for the newly elected Vice-President and she asks Reacher to to examine if her operation is truly protecting the V.P. Reacher shows her some holes and then declares that he wants to know what the problem is... of course, he is right, there is a known plot.. Reacher steps in and begins to help solve the problem.. This is another exciting and violent novel.. Worth reading.. Worth watching Reacher's brain work. If you are tired of hearing me sing Reacher and Child's praises don't stay tuned.. As soon as I finish the Clive Cussler I'm working on-- I'm on to the next Reacher novel. ...more It's been a while since I've read a Reacher, and I really enjoyed this one. Jack is working to prevent the assassination of the Vice President elect, and he's doing it a bit in the shadow of his deceased older brother. The women are smart, capable and human... always a plus. There is a lot of speculation throughout the book as to why the VP elect is a target. During that speculation, an interesting theory was suggested, especially right now as our two US nominees have not yet named their running m It's been a while since I've read a Reacher, and I really enjoyed this one. Jack is working to prevent the assassination of the Vice President elect, and he's doing it a bit in the shadow of his deceased older brother. The women are smart, capable and human... always a plus. There is a lot of speculation throughout the book as to why the VP elect is a target. During that speculation, an interesting theory was suggested, especially right now as our two US nominees have not yet named their running mates. The suggestion is that the VP's primary job, aside from stepping up if the President gets incapacitated, is during the election campaign, from June to November. He is chosen to balance out the ticket in various ways, and to say things that the presidential nominee can't or shouldn't say. It rings true to me. Politics is fascinating. Scary, but fascinating. ...more This is #6 in the series. A very good read. I enjoyed the premise of having Jack Reacher taking the job to assassinate the vice president of the United States. Theoretically that is. He is asked to do this by a female (M.E. Froelich) Secret Service Agent who is heading up the vice president-elect's protective detail; to find the holes in her system. Well that's the basis of the story anyway but from there things tend to escalate as is par for any true Jack Reacher storyline. Looking forward to h This is #6 in the series. A very good read. I enjoyed the premise of having Jack Reacher taking the job to assassinate the vice president of the United States. Theoretically that is. He is asked to do this by a female (M.E. Froelich) Secret Service Agent who is heading up the vice president-elect's protective detail; to find the holes in her system. Well that's the basis of the story anyway but from there things tend to escalate as is par for any true Jack Reacher storyline. Looking forward to his next adventure. A must read of course for all Reacher fans. ...more", "Title": "Without Fail"},
