{"Comments": "Witch In The Woods,<---M> being my first book</---M>, I admit that I probably love it a little too much. I originally wrote it for creative writing class in 2009, and it literally took me four years to turn it into a book. I didn't want Witch In The Woods to be like other Y.A.<---F> novels</---F>. I wanted it to be different, and I really think I succeeded with that goal. When I finished writing it, I really missed the characters. I had been working with them for such a long time, and I didn't like the thought that it was Witch In The Woods, being my first book, I admit that I probably love it a little too much. I originally wrote it for creative writing class in 2009, and it literally took me four years to turn it into a book. I didn't want Witch In The Woods to be like other Y.A. novels. I wanted it to be different, and I really think I succeeded with that goal. When I finished writing it, I really missed the characters. I had been working with them for such a long time, and I didn't like the thought that it was over, which is why it's exciting that I am turning Witch In The Woods into a trilogy! Witch In The Woods is my baby, and though it is not perfect, I hope others will enjoy it as much as I do. ...more I very much enjoyed <+++>Witch in the Woods</+++>. The story never lagged and the characters were fun and believable. It has a creepy but fun plot that keeps the reader wanting more and is spookily suspenseful with a few laugh out loud moments. I highly recomend <+++>Witch in the Woods</+++>, not only to teens and young adults,but to anyone who enjoys curling up on the couch with a warm blanket and a great spooky story. What a great book from an obviously young author. Miss Bunker has a refreshing take on a popular subject, and presents her plot and characters with none of the jaded awareness of an older writer. We'll done, keep up the good work A brilliant book! A enthralling tale, I know I will be reading it again and again for years to come! I hear a sequel is in the works, and I very much look forward to it. I LOVE THIS BOOK! The story took such a turn it kept me on the edge of my seat! I enjoyed following along with Victor through his long and creepy journey. I am so glad to read that she is writing the sequel. Cant wait for the next book! Simply a delightful read! Very enjoyable indeed, this young author shows serious promise and I can't wait for the next book in the series! I really enjoyed this book, it had a good story and lots of suspense, my only problem was trying to put the book down! Good job This was a great book that was easy to pick up, and hard to put down, I enjoyed how at first it seemed as if it would have been a farely easy job to get rid of the witch, but that changed very quickly This is a good book. Easy read, but catches your attention. An interesting supernatural adventure. A great book from a now favorite author of mine. I very much enjoyed the story and I found I looked forward to the journal entries. A dark but fun story, exactly what you expect from a book about a witch. I also found the subtle humor added a nice element. I highly recommend Witch In The Woods. I really liked this book. I do not want to give anything away, or copy what other reviewers have said, but this book is well worth your time. I am looking forward to the sequel! Witch in the Woods is a dark but fun story about a young man named Victor who is called upon to rid the woods of Beth's Hollow of a witch. Sounds easy enough, right? Wrong! I loved the twist and turns this book took. I feel the author did an nice job telling the tale set in the early 1600's. If you like books about witches this is a good one, you wont regret it. Seeing the cover made me want to read this! I really like witchs, and this book quickly became one of my faves! I love Fabian, he is one of my favorites! I hope he has a bigger part in the sequel! Witch in the Woods is a good read. I understand this is Taylor Ann Bunker's first novel, I do see a bright future for her and will be looking forward to her next book. A friend of mine recommended Witch in the Woods by Taylor Ann Bunker to me, and I have to say it was wonderful. The story takes you on a journey with Victor, who in my opinion, is a great character. He seem s very passionate about his work and truly cares about the people he helps.(<---B>he also has a cute sense of humor</---B>) The story of a witch hunter sent to kill a witch has been done many times but this book was so different and unique it was a pleasure to read. It kept me on my toes and I couldn't put A friend of mine recommended Witch in the Woods by Taylor Ann Bunker to me, and I have to say it was wonderful. The story takes you on a journey with Victor, who in my opinion, is a great character. He seem s very passionate about his work and truly cares about the people he helps.(he also has a cute sense of humor) The story of a witch hunter sent to kill a witch has been done many times but this book was so different and unique it was a pleasure to read. It kept me on my toes and I couldn't put it down. A very well written book that I have and will continue to recommend to anyone who will listen to me. ...more Mind blown! I was not expecting this to become my favorite book! Taylor Ann Bunker has a bright future ahead of her, and I can't wait to see it! The year is 1601 and Victor Steep is a professional witch-hunter amidst the witch craze era. But he hunts the real dangers. And one such danger takes him to Beth's Hollow, where a witch in the woods has been terrifying the residents for generations. This book has been on my reading list for ages, ever since it was featured on Keeley's Days of Indie last Christmas. ( Quick link to all the videos ) I did delay a bit, because I was worried that a) I might find it too similar to my work; or b) it would The year is 1601 and Victor Steep is a professional witch-hunter amidst the witch craze era. But he hunts the real dangers. And one such danger takes him to Beth's Hollow, where a witch in the woods has been terrifying the residents for generations. This book has been on my reading list for ages, ever since it was featured on Keeley's Days of Indie last Christmas. ( Quick link to all the videos ) I did delay a bit, because I was worried that a) I might find it too similar to my work; or b) it would disappoint. And then I made the mistake of watching the film Into The Woods, and that just plain scarred me from anything Witch and Wood related for months! Anyway, back on track - a) this book is an amazing and original story; b) see point a. This is set in the beginning of the 17th Century, when the witch craze affects Europe, and millions of innocent people die because of the ignorance and greed of their fellow man. This is touched upon in the book, acknowledging that this is happening; but Witch in the Woods focusses on Victor's story. Victor hunts real witches. Because they exist, they are evil creatures that torment nearby towns and tear families apart. And they are not easy to kill. Victor's deceased father also hunted witches, and despite a somewhat distant relationship between the two, Victor learnt everything from him. Which includes inheriting his beliefs that all witches (and their demons) are evil and must be killed. But everything is not as black and white as it seems, when Victor meets Clearly and her brother Fabian. The story has an modest feel, and you can believe it's set in 1601. There is drama, and intrigue, the tension suitably builds to the final fight. The characters are all strong. Victor gets to discover more about his mother, who died when he was born. And he also gets to completely relearn everything he thought he knew about his father. With the letters, diary entries and memories, his father is a very tangible character. Then of course you have the bad guy - a 400 year old with with an obsession for collecting skulls? I loved her. She was definitely my favourite character, the way she was playing with Victor, haunting his thoughts. So overall, a story I was completely swept along by, and a series I can't wait to continue! ...more Not Your Everyday Paranormal I was pleasantly pleased and surprised by Witch In The Woods. I love the title: simple yet elegant. Taylor Ann Bunker has an imagination out of this world and does her homework as well in this romping witch hunt set in colonial times. Victor Steep is the courageous witch hunter and hero who, against all odds, does battle against the, more than match, lethal witch. A good amount of chapters start with Steep reading from his journal which is a wonderful touch. Bunker is Not Your Everyday Paranormal I was pleasantly pleased and surprised by Witch In The Woods. I love the title: simple yet elegant. Taylor Ann Bunker has an imagination out of this world and does her homework as well in this romping witch hunt set in colonial times. Victor Steep is the courageous witch hunter and hero who, against all odds, does battle against the, more than match, lethal witch. A good amount of chapters start with Steep reading from his journal which is a wonderful touch. Bunker is masterful in the way she seamlessly weaves colorful descriptions and vivid details into the narrative, action, and dialog of the story. At times I felt like I was watching a movie. And if your heart wasn\u2019t beating fast enough with fear in the dark woods of Beth\u2019s Hollow, then it\u2019ll beat for that YA young love when Steep runs into Clearly Willow. Bunker has a gift when it come to creating characters. I especially like the contrast between the characters: the true mark of a talented author. This is most evident in the dialog between Gammer and Steep. I read WITW in a day. This one has it all. The Misercorde Dagger is cool, but I gotta get me one of those dagger pistols and start a collection. ...more 4/5 That was awesome!! Can't wait to get the next two and find out what happens with Clearly & Fabian! Victor is a witch hunter that has been drafted to Beth's Hollow to determine who this witch is that has been harassing the townspeople for years. After more and more people reportedly go missing once they enter the woods, Victor takes the task upon himself to bring this witch down. Little did he know that he would begin to develop feelings for those he would meet in the woods or that he woul 4/5 That was awesome!! Can't wait to get the next two and find out what happens with Clearly & Fabian! Victor is a witch hunter that has been drafted to Beth's Hollow to determine who this witch is that has been harassing the townspeople for years. After more and more people reportedly go missing once they enter the woods, Victor takes the task upon himself to bring this witch down. Little did he know that he would begin to develop feelings for those he would meet in the woods or that he would develop a new found respect for his deceased father in the process. A solid 4/5, Witch in the Woods was a really fun start to another witch trilogy that I can't wait to continue! A debut novel from this author, you can tell how much she enjoyed writing the characters as the storyline progressed. Victor is one of my favorite characters that I read in 2014. I need to get books 2 and 3 ASAP! ...more This was a promising book that turned out to be a bit of a disappointment. There were no twists. I thought maybe the witch might turn out to be his great great great (etc) grandmother or something. The most interesting part was the prologue to book 2. Which now I'm going to have to read. Lol it's a great book I love it I chose to read this book based on the reviews on here but was put off shortly after starting it by grammatical and spelling errors. I thought perhaps this was because I was reading it on my kindle and there was a problem in the translation so I persevered. However, these continued (wrong uses of to and too etc.)and changes of tense in the same sentence and I had to give up reading it after a few chapters. It felt like it had been written by a child, and hadn't been proof read properly. Sorry, I I chose to read this book based on the reviews on here but was put off shortly after starting it by grammatical and spelling errors. I thought perhaps this was because I was reading it on my kindle and there was a problem in the translation so I persevered. However, these continued (wrong uses of to and too etc.)and changes of tense in the same sentence and I had to give up reading it after a few chapters. It felt like it had been written by a child, and hadn't been proof read properly. Sorry, I realise lots of readers loved it but it wasn't for me. ...more No, sorry. Spelling errors, cliche after cliche and empty characters in a predictable plot. Not for me. No.<---A>T. A. Bunker</---A><---C>T. A. Bunker</---C>", "Title": "Witch in the Woods"},
