{"Comments": "<+++>Hyperbole and a Half: Unfortunate Situations, Flawed Coping Mechanisms, Mayhem, and Other Things That Happened</+++>I absolutely loved it, and I know I'll visit this book again and again. My only sad: the alot does not make an appearance. SO I DEMAND A SEQUEL! I DEMAND IT ALOT! go to this now!!! http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.<---F>com/ i don't laugh at books much</---F>. don't get me wrong, i am not averse to the emotion humans call \"happiness.\" sometimes i will find myself smiling at an amusing book. i have been known to chuckle, even. but this book ripped out my funny bone and started tickling me with it. not only did i LOL, i was crying with laughter by page four. PAGE FOUR! i even took a picture of my laughter-tears as proof which i intended to use in this review, but then i go to this now!!! http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/ i don't laugh at books much. don't get me wrong, i am not averse to the emotion humans call \"happiness.\" sometimes i will find myself smiling at an amusing book. i have been known to chuckle, even. but this book ripped out my funny bone and started tickling me with it. not only did i LOL, i was crying with laughter by page four. PAGE FOUR! i even took a picture of my laughter-tears as proof which i intended to use in this review, but then i figured the internet had enough pictures of me already, so that one will just be for me. but i will tell you that page four was not the end of my laughter-response. this book made me indescribably happy, much more than the typical \"messy art autobiography\" you find cluttering up the humor section. along with Let's Pretend This Never Happened: A Mostly True Memoir , this is a book that finally understands what it's going to take to make me laugh. for example,<---M> every single time she drew a dog</---M>, i fell in love a little. these are among the best dog drawings ever. if that's not a perfect trip into the mind of a dog, i don't know what is. one more: holy hell, but that's comedy gold. there are other, non-dog-related treasures; in particular the \"god of cake\" story and the goose story, but i will leave you to discover those for yourself. i know i have said in other reviews of internet-sensations-turned-book that i was glad to learn of the blog or site or whatever through the book, but i never actually visited them after my revelation, even if i really enjoyed the book. maybe once or twice, but then i would get distracted by other things and never follow through. but with this one, i am going to do the unprecedented. are you ready? for those of you who know me and my allergy to \"doing new things\" or even \"doing things like normal, modern people do\" like owning a cellphone, this is going to blow your minds. i am going to \"follow\" a blog, as the kids say. and there. i have just done it. i think. i don't know what all these buttons mean, but i am fairly confident that i have just joined the ranks of the modern world. brrrr, it's chilly. speaking of chilly, i will leave you with allie brosh's take on a dog in the snow: i love her. always. ...more I loved this! It consistently had me laughing so hard I was almost crying. I've been a huge fan of Allie's blog for years, and really the only reason I didn't give this 5 stars is because I'd already read quite a few of the \"chapters\". I still really recommend this though, both to those who are new to Allie's work and those already following her. It's wonderful! My assistant introduced me to this book, and I immediately fell in love. Oh <---A>Allie Brosh</---A>, where have you been all my life? Oh. You were on the internet. And apparently all the cool kids have known about you for ages. Here's a link to her website just in case you've been living under a rock like me: http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/ Go and read some. You can thank me later. I don't think I've seen a book that most of my friends agree on as much as this one. It seems everyone loves it. You would have to be a turd to not love this book. Allie Brosh is most awesome. Allie, You should come and play with us on Goodreads. We are nice people. Most of us are somewhat sane. We would have fun and eat cake together. I'll bring the alcohol. Now to the book. So much fun..if you haven't checked out her blog you just need to stop what you are doing and go there. http://www.hyperbol I don't think I've seen a book that most of my friends agree on as much as this one. It seems everyone loves it. You would have to be a turd to not love this book. Allie Brosh is most awesome. Allie, You should come and play with us on Goodreads. We are nice people. Most of us are somewhat sane. We would have fun and eat cake together. I'll bring the alcohol. Now to the book. So much fun..if you haven't checked out her blog you just need to stop what you are doing and go there. http://www.hyperboleandahalf.blogspot... I've read \"God of Cake\" probably 30 times already but I still giggled when I read it again in the book. It's just that good. The book is easier on my old eyes so now I want a copy. This book is colorful and fun..it's way heavy though. I think the difference in types of paper and all the ink made it heavier than a normal book. That's ok though. I can stick it in my purse and hit someone that pisses me off over the head with it. I rambled again didn't I? *sniff* Like I've never done that before. I have to introduce Helper Dog and Simple Dog. The shelter worker said, \"This one hates everything and she doesn't know anything, and I hope you aren't planning on taking her outside ever because she's more like a bear than a dog, really, and unfortunately, she can scale a seven-foot-tall fence like the fucking Spider-Man. And we were like, \"Sure, why not.\" Now..get off the internet and go read this book. ...more Initial reaction: This book deserves ALL THE STARS! You knew that was coming, right? :) On a serious note, I loved Allie Brosh's funny, honest, and charming account of her life through the artwork and narration in \"Hyperbole and a Half.\" This book is a compilation of several stories Brosh has told on her blog of the same name, compiled in this book, along with some stories I'll admit I haven't seen before. Full review: I always have a difficult time writing reviews on books that hit my all-time fa Initial reaction: This book deserves ALL THE STARS! You knew that was coming, right? :) On a serious note, I loved Allie Brosh's funny, honest, and charming account of her life through the artwork and narration in \"Hyperbole and a Half.\" This book is a compilation of several stories Brosh has told on her blog of the same name, compiled in this book, along with some stories I'll admit I haven't seen before. Full review: I always have a difficult time writing reviews on books that hit my all-time favorites list, and this book was no exception. Allie Brosh's \"Hyperbole and a Half\" is based upon her very popular posts on her website of the same name. I started following it quite some time ago and was taken by her very humorous and true to life narratives coupled with awesome artwork. (Yes, I said it, her artwork is awesome, even if said artwork includes possessed, demonic repressed geese. But at least accurate portrayal is accurate. That true story was hilarious.) If there were a single quibble that I would have about the collection in general - I think the ARC could've done with maybe a bit of background info on Allie as well as a TOC showing the order of the tales that were included in the narrative. I think that might be helpful for people who are not only just being introduced to Allie's narratives in general, but also just for organizational/orientation's sake. I think the first included entry in the series of comics and narratives is appropriate though, considering it's Allie addressing her ten year old self (and younger selves) at the age of 25, and realizing that finding a letter written to her future self from ten years old was...well, a weird experience. The narratives from there on are random presentations of Allie Brosh's life, from her experiences with her family, loved ones, and dogs, to expansions on growing up to adulthood and depression. So much of the narratives I could relate to, and I had a good laugh with them and learned a bit more about Brosh in the process. She has a fresh, identifiable wit that comes across in both the art and anecdotes, even for some of the tough subjects she addresses. That I respected a lot and I consider her my heroine for being honest and good humored in the same measure. It's a fun read, and one I would wholeheartedly recommend. Overall score: 5/5 stars Note: I received this as an ARC from NetGalley, from the publisher Touchstone. ...more \u201cDesperation breeds ingenuity\u201d It was definitely a witty, funny read, many times it was so hilarious, often, twisted and yet, still very relatable. It was also sometimes sad but very genuine. Just salute to the author for simply admitting the lousiest things that sometimes come across our human\u2019s unpredictable, messed up heads. The drawings are hilarious and I completely enjoyed the fun read. I know this is not much so do check out my friends' reviews: Shelby's Tamara's Pinky's Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ How many stars do I give this one???? Some things I figured out while reading Hyperbole and a Half : Whooops, sorry \u2013 got distracted. Okay, where was I? Oh yeah, stuff I learned. I think there\u2019s a good chance I adopted clones of Allie Brosh\u2019s dogs . . . my anti-social behavior is 100% A-Okay . . . cake IS a fucking food group and no one is going to tell me otherwise . . . geese are dangerous psychopaths that become extremely violent f Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ How many stars do I give this one???? Some things I figured out while reading Hyperbole and a Half : Whooops, sorry \u2013 got distracted. Okay, where was I? Oh yeah, stuff I learned. I think there\u2019s a good chance I adopted clones of Allie Brosh\u2019s dogs . . . my anti-social behavior is 100% A-Okay . . . cake IS a fucking food group and no one is going to tell me otherwise . . . geese are dangerous psychopaths that become extremely violent for absolutely no reason . . . and finally, my priorities in life lead me to believe there\u2019s a good chance I\u2019m really a 10-year old. . . . In the world of blog-to-book authors, Allie Brosh takes the grand prize (sorry Jenny Lawson \u2013 I still love you, just not as much). Not only will she make you laugh \u2018til you cry, but she also opens up about what it\u2019s like to battle depression in the most honest and upfront way I\u2019ve seen. Recommended to???? Everyone with a soul (and most of those without). ...more I tend to stay away from humoristic memoirs because some of the ones I\u2019ve read in the past have let me down. A lot of them rely too heavily on shock value as their primary source for humor and that\u2019s a strategy that wears thin rather quickly. This book is different. In fact this book is actually kind of phenomenal. Put together by an artist who has made a career out of blog postings containing crude graphical representations of her life, this book sources its laughs from a magnifying-glass perspe I tend to stay away from humoristic memoirs because some of the ones I\u2019ve read in the past have let me down. A lot of them rely too heavily on shock value as their primary source for humor and that\u2019s a strategy that wears thin rather quickly. This book is different. In fact this book is actually kind of phenomenal. Put together by an artist who has made a career out of blog postings containing crude graphical representations of her life, this book sources its laughs from a magnifying-glass perspective of her own deadpan reality. A true comedian doesn\u2019t need shock value, because she knows that mundane daily life is filled with comedic potential and she conjures it all up with (somehow) a masterful sense of timing. Her observations are spot on so even while you\u2019re laughing\u2014which I did many times, in the cafeteria, at the gym, at home, in waiting rooms\u2014you\u2019re also realizing how real it is, how accurately it tackles our shortfalls and insecurities, our selfishness, our sadness, our unexplainable attachment to our pets. It isn\u2019t even just one thing ; it\u2019s the whole package\u2014the writing as well as the drawings. The drawings themselves are purposefully simple yet brilliant in their depiction of emotion, and the narrative often reaches some surprising depth. One of my favorite sketches is one in which the author describes how pitifully dumb her dog is, and yet she couples this narrative to a series of drawings that show how lovingly she considers him. Another sketch details her descent into and subsequent recovery from episodes of severe depression and it is an amazing thing to be treated to such remarkable insight alongside a healthy dose of wild laughter. All in all, I think you\u2019ll find that this book is a real winner. ...more I'd like to say I liked this book - I did try to. And I can't deny the freaky power of Allie Brosh's crudely drawn illustrations to evoke complicated emotions and ideas. But I'm tired of navel-gazing blogs turned into books - this one reminded me over and over again of Jen Lancaster - both Brosh and Lancaster, for instance, tell stories of their unloveable dogs that I suppose are intended to make us love the wild rascals or admire their owners for putting up with their bad behavior but only leav I'd like to say I liked this book - I did try to. And I can't deny the freaky power of Allie Brosh's crudely drawn illustrations to evoke complicated emotions and ideas. But I'm tired of navel-gazing blogs turned into books - this one reminded me over and over again of Jen Lancaster - both Brosh and Lancaster, for instance, tell stories of their unloveable dogs that I suppose are intended to make us love the wild rascals or admire their owners for putting up with their bad behavior but only leave me cold and disgusted. Train your goddamn dog or put it down. And both Brosh and Lancaster spend much time reminding us of what petty and shitty (Brosh's word) people they are. While Lancaster writes with self-deprecating humor in an effort to diffuse her petty behavior, Brosh analyzes (and analyzes) how she compensates for her shittiness by lying to herself and consoling herself with delusions about how great she is. Her posts-turned-into-chapters can be funny, but they also leave me with a bad taste in my mouth. We are all shitty people. We all are essentially self-centered with delusions of grandeur. And we all rationalize our flaws away. So what? That doesn't excuse your not recycling, Allie Brosh. ...more I am a chronic anxiety sufferer: so I can tell you that the most frightening labyrinths and the most fearsome torture chambers are within one's own mind. I inhabit quite a substantial part of my time there. The constant fear is that one might get permanently stuck there, in the condition we call \"insanity\". Each one of us have our way of coping so that the tunnels never cave in. Allie Brosh, from her own confessions and from what I could gather from her book, spends a lot of time down in those tu I am a chronic anxiety sufferer: so I can tell you that the most frightening labyrinths and the most fearsome torture chambers are within one's own mind. I inhabit quite a substantial part of my time there. The constant fear is that one might get permanently stuck there, in the condition we call \"insanity\". Each one of us have our way of coping so that the tunnels never cave in. Allie Brosh, from her own confessions and from what I could gather from her book, spends a lot of time down in those tunnels. This book (which is a collection of her blog posts) is Allie's way of fighting back. Her main weapons are the courage to lay bare the innermost workings of her soul, and deliciously dark humour. On the surface, it is not different many other memoirs: the author writes of her childhood and her day-to-day life in satirical vein, exaggerating her failures and the flaws in her personality to draw a laugh. It has been done before, and it shall be done again. Meh. What makes it different are the pictures - and the way the subject matter is treated. The pictures are purposefully crudely drawn, like the way a kid would draw - however, there is a pattern to this crudeness, a method in this madness. The style of the pictures immediately force us away from a \"realistic\" mindset. It's a child's eye view we are being offered here. However, there is a consistency to the pictures which is seldom found in children's efforts: this is a child's eye view, but provided purposefully by an adult . It is drawn like that for a reason, especially Allie's unflattering self-portrait, a cross between a fish and a lizard. It's as though Allie is telling us - Look at all this as if you are a child. Please remove all grownup filters. Then you may really see. And what do we see? Even the most silly of the episodes are treated with a swish of the dark brush: it's as though, once we remove the mask of humour, the true horror of life will strike as in its stark reality. The episode where Allie, her sister and mother get lost in the woods is a good example. It could easily have been a Stephen King story, had they not managed to find a house in the woods - but that part is never stressed, always just simmering beneath the surface. A potential disaster is laughed off, because doing anything else would be opening the door to madness. But what really grabbed me by the neck was the way Allie handled the chapters on depression. I can guess how difficult it would have been for her; but she converts the whole thing into a comedic odyssey. But the real horror comes out in the passages such as the one quoted below: But my experiences slowly flattened and blended together until it became obvious that there\u2019s a huge difference between not giving a fuck and not being able to give a fuck. Cognitively, you might know that different things are happening to you, but they don\u2019t feel very different. Allie is very honest about herself. Such personal veracity is difficult to digest. I don\u2019t just want to do the right thing. I want to WANT to do the right thing. This might seem like a noble goal to strive for, but I don\u2019t actually care about adhering to morality. It\u2019s more that being aware of not wanting to do the right thing ruins my ability to enjoy doing the right thing after I\u2019m forced into doing it through shame. A worthwhile read, also her blog. ...more Allie Brosh = infinity stars Hyperbole blog = six stars My regrets for buying this book = ZERO The actual book = *whispers* eh, it was good. Yeah, good. Not brilliant. But good. Reasons = No alots Pictures depicting nighttime in a dark forest should not have gray writing on them The new content that wasn't on the blog was a bit hit or miss for me. Some . . . um . . . can I say it? Seemed like fillers. Bonus star = lush full color that gave me a slight high from the sheer volume of ink (also the smell t Allie Brosh = infinity stars Hyperbole blog = six stars My regrets for buying this book = ZERO The actual book = *whispers* eh, it was good. Yeah, good. Not brilliant. But good. Reasons = No alots Pictures depicting nighttime in a dark forest should not have gray writing on them The new content that wasn't on the blog was a bit hit or miss for me. Some . . . um . . . can I say it? Seemed like fillers. Bonus star = lush full color that gave me a slight high from the sheer volume of ink (also the smell totally repelled the pungent and persistent aroma of that Etsy-purchased leather bag I thought was coming from New York, but was shipped from Morocco, which I strongly suspect is made of dead camel, and is too heavy for me to carry). And oooh, shiny shiny cover. ...more Hyperbole and a Half Review I'm happy that this book exists. If I had known about the blog, like millions of other people, before the book came out I would have been happy that it had existed. But I didn't. Who knew there was good stuff out there on the interwebs? I couldn't believe how much I was actually laughing out loud at the first story when she finds a letter from her ten year old self to her older self and then responds with writing letters to various aged younger versions of herself. This Hyperbole and a Half Review I'm happy that this book exists. If I had known about the blog, like millions of other people, before the book came out I would have been happy that it had existed. But I didn't. Who knew there was good stuff out there on the interwebs? I couldn't believe how much I was actually laughing out loud at the first story when she finds a letter from her ten year old self to her older self and then responds with writing letters to various aged younger versions of herself. This is literally (and I mean literally, literally here) the most I've ever laughed at something in a book. A few of the later stories I was not a huge fan of, but they didn't do much to diminish my overall enjoyment of the book. Eight days after reading the book I can't even remember which ones those were. In my memory they are all great, so yay shitty memory! I also blame myself for reading most of this book in one sitting. I kept thinking, maybe I should leave Karen's apartment, and not just sit on her bed and pet her cat for a while longer, but I'll just read one more story, and that one story led to one more, and one more and then I was all done with the book thanks to the humorous crack like quality of the book. I'm sure Maggie was happy with the extra pets she got because of this. Allie Brosh is fucking funny. If you're like me and fairly stupid about popular things on the internet (i.e., you never heard of her blog before seeing this in a bookstore), then I'd recommend you either going to look at the blog now or picking up a copy of this. I really don't know how much of this is original material, so maybe if you've been reading the blog it wouldn't be as new and exciting for you as it was for me, but it's now available in the handy hand-held version that you can touch and turn the pages of. Anyway really funny and cute. She draws dogs just about as good as Jeffrey Brown draws cats, which is a total compliment. A couple of the things in the depression pieces hit a little too close to home, and may have soured my mood for the rest of the day, but they were still a pleasurable way to have my mood soured for the day, sort of in the same way I'll keeping listening to Clarissa's Wierd over and over again even though I know that it's not going to end well for me. Some reviewers I have seen say that this book mostly contains things from the blog, which is great for those of us who seem to be blind to the internet outside of goodreads. Maybe in 2015 I'll set myself some low reading goal for the year so I can focus more on catching up with this whole blogging craze. This will be a good time to do this, because I'm sure there will be something all new and exciting going on by then (or now) that I can be equally clueless about, but marvel at when it's released in book format. I don't think I've read any other humor books released this year, but I'm going to go out on a limb and say this is the best one. If not the actual best one, then the best one I've read. legal disclaimer : I have borrowed this book from a friend, which is like getting it from Netgalley. I didn't pay to read it, and after a certain period of time it will no longer be in my possession, and I will have to get my own copy, or just leaf through it in a bookstore, or maybe a library, if I want to re-read it, or refer back to the book when three or four years from now someone decides to tell me that I'm not very clever or smart and that I was in fact wrong about finding this book funny, and then I'll feel the need to go back to the book to defend why I thought it was funny, which will be impossible because if someone doesn't find something funny it never adds improves the situation by describing to the person why something is funny. I've been amiss lately at adding necessary legal disclaimers to my reviews. It's almost safe to say (but not entirely true), that just about everything I've reviewed in the past few months was not purchased by me, and in most times not purchased by anyone. I'm certain this book has been purchased though. In the past six months I'm fairly certain that I have purchased 7 books, two of which I have read and one which I reviewed (favorably). I feel like I'm begging the question of, \u201cwhat did you purchase, Greg?\u201d It's not important. ...more I finally know where this meme originated from. From Allie Brosh and her fabulous, fabulous book. Hyperbole and a Half is the perfect novel to read on a rainy day because it's unbelievably funny. It consists of random incidents and observations in Allie's life, ranging from toddler cake consumption: \u201cI had tasted cake and there was no going back. My tiny body had morphed into a writhing mass of pure tenacity encased in a layer of desperation. I would eat all of the cake or I would evaporate from I finally know where this meme originated from. From Allie Brosh and her fabulous, fabulous book. Hyperbole and a Half is the perfect novel to read on a rainy day because it's unbelievably funny. It consists of random incidents and observations in Allie's life, ranging from toddler cake consumption: \u201cI had tasted cake and there was no going back. My tiny body had morphed into a writhing mass of pure tenacity encased in a layer of desperation. I would eat all of the cake or I would evaporate from the sheer power of my desire to eat it.\u201d To basic mathematics of table condiments: \"As soon as you became aware that eating huge amounts of salt is really, really uncomfortably salty, you should have stopped eating salt. That's the solution. The solution is not to begin eating pepper to cancel out the salt.\" There's also a really touching analogy of what it feels like to have depression. And the drawings are hysterical . Highly recommended. ...more Allie Brosh astounds me. Despite her strange little drawings, particularly a self-portrait that looks something like a marine tube worm, she reaches some profound truths in the course of her book. Part graphic novel, part autobiography, she manages to both amuse and discomfort the reader in the best of ways. Though she presents herself as a person struggling with severe depression issues in a number of the stories, she touches on human truths most of us experience. Hyperbole and a Half originates Allie Brosh astounds me. Despite her strange little drawings, particularly a self-portrait that looks something like a marine tube worm, she reaches some profound truths in the course of her book. Part graphic novel, part autobiography, she manages to both amuse and discomfort the reader in the best of ways. Though she presents herself as a person struggling with severe depression issues in a number of the stories, she touches on human truths most of us experience. Hyperbole and a Half originates from her wildly popular blog of the same name (link to her site). Satisfying on a laptop screen, I enjoyed the paper version even more. Made of heavy paper, each section has a different colored page background, making it look a little like a stack of heavy construction paper from the side. It\u2019s a pleasing way to highlight a change in topics. Subjects range from childhood experiences to struggles with her dogs to self-identity and depression. \u201cDinosaur (the Goose story)\u201d created laugh out loud moments with its great pictures. I confess, \u201cThe God of Cake\u201d is one of my favorite stories, precisely because I can completely relate. I too have schemed obsessively to get cake, and that tell-tale smear of pink icing at the corner of the mouth\u2013priceless. For further thoughts--and samples of some of Brosh's great drawings because adding them to GR is just effing tedious , along with links to her work, check my full review at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0... ...more I am an ugly laugher. This is something I didn't know about myself until I read this book. This is the type of book that's not merely amusing or funny in the way of smart satire. No, Brosh's brand of humorous life observation, coupled with her rough but charming illustrations, will have you clutching your side, desperate for air. My husband banned me from reading this book at night because my hysterics woke him up, and I got a lecture about REM cycles and proper adult bedtimes (incidentally, my I am an ugly laugher. This is something I didn't know about myself until I read this book. This is the type of book that's not merely amusing or funny in the way of smart satire. No, Brosh's brand of humorous life observation, coupled with her rough but charming illustrations, will have you clutching your side, desperate for air. My husband banned me from reading this book at night because my hysterics woke him up, and I got a lecture about REM cycles and proper adult bedtimes (incidentally, my husband is a fully-functioning grown up and not the target audience for this book). Despite the author's questionable life choice to be a dog person, I felt like I could relate to everything in this book. And I also found it empowering in a way. Like, hey, I'm not alone. To my mother and sister-in-law who seem to be working in tandem to make me feel as awkward and inferior as possible: Hey, I'm not alone! Being a superstar adult is not for everyone, and whether or not it was the author's intentions, I feel a little better about it after reading this book. ...more This book had me laughing so hard I started crying. I mean that as a compliment. Allie Brosh writes the popular blog Hyperbole and a Half, and this is a collection of her favorite web comics and a few new ones. I first found her blog when her post titled \"This is Why I'll Never Be an Adult\" was getting shared on Facebook and Twitter. It's about her occasional bursts of motivation to Get Stuff Done, but how exhausting and frustrating it quickly becomes to be so responsible. I was happy to see thi This book had me laughing so hard I started crying. I mean that as a compliment. Allie Brosh writes the popular blog Hyperbole and a Half, and this is a collection of her favorite web comics and a few new ones. I first found her blog when her post titled \"This is Why I'll Never Be an Adult\" was getting shared on Facebook and Twitter. It's about her occasional bursts of motivation to Get Stuff Done, but how exhausting and frustrating it quickly becomes to be so responsible. I was happy to see this comic included in the book.* Besides the Adult chapter, some of my favorite pieces were about Allie trying to train her dog, her early obsession with cake, a hilarious and terrifying attack by a goose, and some letters she writes to her younger self. I was laughing so loudly and uncontrollably that I think I annoyed my husband, who was trying to work in the other room. Of course I had to interrupt him every few minutes and thrust the book at him, saying, \"Read this! It's so funny and clever!\" (He did admit it was funny.) Some of the comics are also insightful, discussing her experiences with depression and identity in a self-deprecating way. I highly recommend the book to anyone who wants a good laugh. *For your reading enjoyment, here is a link to her post about trying to be an adult: http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com... ...more 4.5 stars Loved this! I thought it was hilarious and I was laughing out loud at some chapters! I think my favorite was the chapter about the Simple Dog or when she was writing to her 25 year old self.. \"Do you still like dogs? What is your favorite dog?\" Haha Apparently this author has a blog so I'm going to have to check that out for sure! Some of this was pretty relatable actually... I did enjoy the deeper parts as well. Overall definitely light and fun and I recommend it if you're in the mood 4.5 stars Loved this! I thought it was hilarious and I was laughing out loud at some chapters! I think my favorite was the chapter about the Simple Dog or when she was writing to her 25 year old self.. \"Do you still like dogs? What is your favorite dog?\" Haha Apparently this author has a blog so I'm going to have to check that out for sure! Some of this was pretty relatable actually... I did enjoy the deeper parts as well. Overall definitely light and fun and I recommend it if you're in the mood for something like that! ...more May 18, 14 Will I ever find something like this book, again?! *** Jan 05, 14 This is kind of how I look right now while writing these humble thoughts. Do you see that smile? That little face. It's like a child on sugar overdose after eating half a cake on his birthday during vacations at Disneyland. So, I'll try to control myself. I was smiling since its introduction. After reading all her \u201cWarning signs\u201d I just knew it was going to be a hilarious book. I didn't know this was such an Internet sensatio May 18, 14 Will I ever find something like this book, again?! *** Jan 05, 14 This is kind of how I look right now while writing these humble thoughts. Do you see that smile? That little face. It's like a child on sugar overdose after eating half a cake on his birthday during vacations at Disneyland. So, I'll try to control myself. I was smiling since its introduction. After reading all her \u201cWarning signs\u201d I just knew it was going to be a hilarious book. I didn't know this was such an Internet sensation, that she had a blog and all that. I don't so I'm a bit out of that world, you know, blogs, Twitter, Tumblr, the thing with the paintings, pictures, whatever. I heard about this author a couple of months ago. (Thanks GR Awards for letting me know about this book. I know I couldn't vote because I haven't read a single one of those new books, but I'm trying to keep up. Even though next year I'm guessing it will be the same thing and I'll be reading those new books after the whole event is over.) I love mixing genres. You can't be all about the serious stuff (well, you could, but you'll be a victim of a massive dullness, and that's fine by me). I love humor and I'm so glad I find books like this one, once in a while. People often think it's easy to write a funny book. Well, it's not. It's not like putting a bunch of stupid words all together. And believe me, I read one of those and that's not how it works. Well, for me, at least. These people seem to be clever, witty, charming. All things I can only imagine, but I'm guessing that's how they are (?) If they're not, don't tell me. Do not kill my illusion. Anyway, this book has funny anecdotes and hilarious drawings. You can look at this picture with some random sentence next to it, and still can't help a good laugh, no matter how serious that sentence is meant to be. An overwhelming excitement . (Kind of my reaction when entering an old-looking library.) A giant asteroid is expected to hit the Earth in a matter of weeks. From now on, all books must be read using electronic devices and paperbacks are forbidden. Hmm. OK, bad example. And maybe that only happens to me. Anyhow, the anecdotes, the jokes, the hilarious observations on life, its weirdness and awesomeness and the awkward drawings... all that makes an amazing combo. After \u201cWarning signs\u201d, I laughed at \u201cThe simple dog\u201d. I'm a cat/dog lover, I can't choose. Right now, I have a cat and I'm not frustrated because he won't do what I tell him to do. I know he's not stupid. Moreover, I'm pretty sure his IQ is higher than mine. He won't listen to me because he simply doesn't want to. He knows the sound of my voice, when I'm petting him and when I'm angry because he just threw a glass off the table. So, he chooses when to obey. A free spirit who's not so free when I'm holding his food. The next chapter is called \u201cMotivation\u201d; I looked it up so I would be able to understand what these pages were all about... And when I familiarized with the term, oh my, how I laughed! Yep, that usually happens to me with Diet Coke bottles. By page 40-something, I was laughing my teeth off. My cat was staring at me, seeing his owner laughing at some screen, wondering how to google \u201chow to tell if my owner is retarded\u201d (well, that was the word). However, I couldn't help it. Fear and shame are the backbone of my self-control. They are my source of inspiration, my insurance against becoming entirely unacceptable. They help me do the right thing. And I am terrified of what I would be without them. Because I suspect that, left to my own devices, I would completely lose control of my life. Aw. I fell in love with this human being. I also loved \u201cThe God of Cake\u201d, the \u201cDepressions\u201d, especially part II, \u201cThis is why I'll never be an adult\u201d (nothing I can relate to; oh no, not me... not me, at all), \u201cThoughts and feelings\u201d and many other fascinating anecdotes that made my weekend (yes, this was the highest point of my weekend; no, I'm not pathetic!) If you enjoy good comedy, this is your book. If you don't, well... I'm really sorry. Really. So, this is it! I loved this book. I loved it ...more Allie Brosh knows more about dogs more than Cesar Millan . She knows them inside out and what makes them tick. She understands them. She just doesn't know what to DO about dogs. The stories about Brosh's dogs are fall-down funny. There is simple dog who is basically a sea cucumber with legs and helper dog who will surmount any obstacle to bark at the neighbor's dog. If you are a dog lover, you will find them HILARIOUS. Other tales, particularly about depression and some seriously questionable lapse Allie Brosh knows more about dogs more than Cesar Millan . She knows them inside out and what makes them tick. She understands them. She just doesn't know what to DO about dogs. The stories about Brosh's dogs are fall-down funny. There is simple dog who is basically a sea cucumber with legs and helper dog who will surmount any obstacle to bark at the neighbor's dog. If you are a dog lover, you will find them HILARIOUS. Other tales, particularly about depression and some seriously questionable lapses in parental judgement are not so much funny as sad and scary. (view spoiler) [I was honestly squirming as I read about Mom & kids lost in the woods and Dad entering Allie in a hot sauce eating contest. (hide spoiler) ] But, if the next book has more about dogs...I'll probably buy it. Because...you know...dogs! ...more A book club friend loaned this to me. I am very familiar with Hyperbole and a Half, have even been known to use an image or two from it as profile pictures (especially the cell from the social entrapment post that says \"I'd love to hang out but I have to go sit in my house by myself.\") So, already a huge fan, love simple dog, and enjoyed reading this. I'd been a bit bogged down in depressing (yet award-nominated) books and also had spent four days in training this week, so this was a welcome res A book club friend loaned this to me. I am very familiar with Hyperbole and a Half, have even been known to use an image or two from it as profile pictures (especially the cell from the social entrapment post that says \"I'd love to hang out but I have to go sit in my house by myself.\") So, already a huge fan, love simple dog, and enjoyed reading this. I'd been a bit bogged down in depressing (yet award-nominated) books and also had spent four days in training this week, so this was a welcome respite. I laughed like a crazy person. Somehow I had never met Helper Dog and loved his crazy presence. ...more Allie Brosh of the Hyperbole and a Half blog = my longtime girl crush! She's irreverently funny and just so incredibly genuine . Readers of her blog will recognise some of the stories in this. (I'll confess to missing the Alot one just because it was what introduced me to her in the first place, but I'm so glad the depression and simple dog ones made it in.) ANYWAY. What, you need some motivation to pick this up? Never fear! (Content removed because Touchstone didn't want me using unauthorised cont Allie Brosh of the Hyperbole and a Half blog = my longtime girl crush! She's irreverently funny and just so incredibly genuine . Readers of her blog will recognise some of the stories in this. (I'll confess to missing the Alot one just because it was what introduced me to her in the first place, but I'm so glad the depression and simple dog ones made it in.) ANYWAY. What, you need some motivation to pick this up? Never fear! (Content removed because Touchstone didn't want me using unauthorised content from Allie's site. But hey, if you want to know what said content could be, go read the book ;)) ...more This book was HILARIOUS, but also deep at times which I really appreciated. It was a nice balance. Leitura: Fevereiro 2014 Releitura: Maio 2015 Releitura: Mar\u00e7o 2016 Este m\u00eas peteceu-me reler uma das hist\u00f3rias deste livro e quando dei por mim j\u00e1 o tinha relido todo... Acho que isto vai acontecer vezes e vezes sem conta ao longo dos anos e o melhor \u00e9 que outro livro da autora vem a caminho! Adoro o seu tipo de humor e identifico-me demais com tudo! E 2 anos depois posso dizer que tenho o Hyperbole and a Half na minha estante por menos de 4\u20ac ahah Quem ler o que est\u00e1 em baixo percebe... ************ Leitura: Fevereiro 2014 Releitura: Maio 2015 Releitura: Mar\u00e7o 2016 Este m\u00eas peteceu-me reler uma das hist\u00f3rias deste livro e quando dei por mim j\u00e1 o tinha relido todo... Acho que isto vai acontecer vezes e vezes sem conta ao longo dos anos e o melhor \u00e9 que outro livro da autora vem a caminho! Adoro o seu tipo de humor e identifico-me demais com tudo! E 2 anos depois posso dizer que tenho o Hyperbole and a Half na minha estante por menos de 4\u20ac ahah Quem ler o que est\u00e1 em baixo percebe... ********************************************** 2014: \"O Hyperbole and a Half \u00e9 um livro baseado no blog de Allie Brosh com o mesmo nome: Hyperbole and a Half. Neste blog Allie aliou narrativas bem divertidas sobre o dia-a-dia a um fant\u00e1stico trabalho gr\u00e1fico. O resultado \u00e9 hilariante! O livro \u00e9 tamb\u00e9m constitu\u00eddo por diversas hist\u00f3rias da vida de Allie Brosh. Hist\u00f3rias relacionadas com a sua fam\u00edlia, vida amorosa, os seus c\u00e3es, a aventura de crescer e a depress\u00e3o - abordadas sempre de uma forma ir\u00f3nica e engra\u00e7ada. Identifiquei-me com muitas situa\u00e7\u00f5es descritas pela autora e as minhas hist\u00f3rias favoritas foram, sem d\u00favida, as dos c\u00e3es (porque o Simba faz quase tudo igual!) e a hist\u00f3ria em que a autora se perdeu na floresta com a m\u00e3e e a irm\u00e3 quando era crian\u00e7a, que \u00e9 demais x) N\u00e3o tenho muito mais a dizer nesta opini\u00e3o... Este livro tem 371 p\u00e1ginas, mas l\u00ea-se num instante porque grande parte destas p\u00e1ginas s\u00e3o s\u00f3 ilustra\u00e7\u00f5es. Tenho pena que o livro seja um pouco caro, mas gostava de o comprar um dia. Aconselho vivamente quando quiserem ler algo bem humorado e bem disposto :)\" ...more This is a non-fiction memoir from Brosh which consists of funny stories paired with even funnier illustrations. For me the illustrations in this book made it a 4 star read. I think if I had simply read the words and not seen the images I wouldn\u2019t of found it anywhere near as funny as I did. Brosh shares amusing anecdotes from her childhood all the way up to present day. As well as the comical stories Brosh also brings us an interesting perspective on mental health. She suffers with depression an This is a non-fiction memoir from Brosh which consists of funny stories paired with even funnier illustrations. For me the illustrations in this book made it a 4 star read. I think if I had simply read the words and not seen the images I wouldn\u2019t of found it anywhere near as funny as I did. Brosh shares amusing anecdotes from her childhood all the way up to present day. As well as the comical stories Brosh also brings us an interesting perspective on mental health. She suffers with depression and anxiety and illustrates her experience of this within the pages of this book \u2013 it was brilliantly done. If you are looking for a laugh I would highly recommend you pick this one up! \u2605 \u2605 \u2605 \u2605 ...more This is the easiest review I've ever done. Quite simply, because this is the funniest book I have ever read. And, not just funny, but tears streaming down my face funny! I've never read a graphic novel, and never thought I would. I hated cartoons...even as a kid. This, however, is a whole different experience. A look at life, with all it's absurdities, and even a piece that touched my heart. I cannot recommend highly enough! Fucking hilarious and true. And hilarious. Five stars! I didn't expect to like this as much as I did. Rarely do I actually laugh out loud at humor books... but I laughed so many times while I read this. The drawings are just so bad that they're hilarious and, despite how simplistic they seem, everything down to the littlest squiggle is flawless. I imagine that Allie Brosh actually spends a lot of time perfecting these stupid images. The stories are funny and relatable and honest. Sometimes they address more meaningful themes (depression, id Five stars! I didn't expect to like this as much as I did. Rarely do I actually laugh out loud at humor books... but I laughed so many times while I read this. The drawings are just so bad that they're hilarious and, despite how simplistic they seem, everything down to the littlest squiggle is flawless. I imagine that Allie Brosh actually spends a lot of time perfecting these stupid images. The stories are funny and relatable and honest. Sometimes they address more meaningful themes (depression, identity), sometimes they just make fun of dogs. If you own a dog or have ever owned a dog or know someone who owns a dog or just kind of like dogs... this is a must-read! I had never heard of Allie Brosh before reading this book (apparently I live under a rock), but I'll definitely be checking out her blog. Her writing/drawing reminds me of my own (I write and draw silly stories like these for friends/family members or just because. I guess I need to start a blog of them and then sell a ton of books.. Geez, why didn't I think of it first??) and I found this book really inspiring. ...more Sometimes when people tell me they are depressed I have to manage my mouth and work really hard not to do the slow eye roll. I tamp down on the urge to school them on the distinction between feeling blue or out of sorts and the utter scourge that is depression. That is why I GIVE ALL THE STARS to Allie Brosh . She knows the distinction. And she made me laugh, snort, cry, and snot. Listen to this interview for more :: http://www.npr.org/2013/11/12/2447581... Scary how relatable some of these stories are...<---C>Allie Brosh</---C><+++>Hyperbole and a Half: Unfortunate Situations, Flawed Coping Mechanisms, Mayhem, and Other Things That Happened</+++>", "Title": "Hyperbole and a Half: Unfortunate Situations, Flawed Coping Mechanisms, Mayhem, and Other Things That Happened"},
