{"Comments": "You know? These are really growing on me. Thanks,<---M> Mom! So</---M>, here's a stupid conversation I had with my mom last week while we were sitting in the waiting room between doctor's appointments. Me: \"Oh, hey, I'm listening to the next <---A>Louise Penny</---A> book.\" Mom (<---B>perks up</---B>): \"Which one?\" Me: \"It's either the fourth or the fifth. It's the one that takes place in the lodge out in the wilderness and there are snotty rich people there while Gamache and his wife, Rene Marie, are celebrating their anniversary.<---F>\" Her: \"</---F>. You know? These are really growing on me. Thanks, Mom! So, here's a stupid conversation I had with my mom last week while we were sitting in the waiting room between doctor's appointments. Me: \"Oh, hey, I'm listening to the next Louise Penny book.\" Mom (perks up): \"Which one?\" Me: \"It's either the fourth or the fifth. It's the one that takes place in the lodge out in the wilderness and there are snotty rich people there while Gamache and his wife, Rene Marie, are celebrating their anniversary.\" Her: \"...?\" Me: \" (view spoiler) [The daughter is killed by the statue of her father? The rich family had all came together to remember the dad by putting a statue of him in the garden of this lodge? There's a big storm and, afterward, the gardener finds the girl squished under the knocked-over statue? (hide spoiler) ] \" Her: \"...I don't think I've read that one.\" Me (putting it down to chemo amnesia): \"Oh, I'm sure you have. Like I said, it's the fourth or the fifth one. Ruth Zardo's duck hasn't even begun to feature prominently. It was only born in the last book and Three Pines hasn't even shown up in this book. I don't know what else happens, yet, I'm not that far in so I can't tell you anything else, but I'm sure you've read it.\" We look at Jim. He shakes his head and shrugs. Mom: \"Well...I haven't read these in order. I probably never read this one.\" Me: \"WHAT? You've been making me read these so we could talk about them but you haven't even been going in order?\" Her: \"I just wanted you to read about the duck. The old lady and the duck are my favorite part.\" *sigh* Alright, well, I am reading these in order and the overall story, it is growing on me. The mystery in this particular installment was actually kind of weak. I'd give it two stars. I'd come up with a far twistier Who/Why/How and was disappointed in the actual results. Ok, my explanation would have made it darker and more evil and this is a cozy mystery but still. I had one eyebrow raised (yes, I can do that) with that \"Really?!?\" look on my face for the last half of the last CD. But who cares? I'm not reading these for the crime-solving element. I'm reading these for a duck, because my mom told me to, and I've become fond of Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife and the village of Three Pines. In addition, I loved the setting of this one and now I want to go to that lodge and eat Chef Veronique's food and hang out by the lake and look at the spiffy copper roof and smell the honeysuckle. Completely charming. ...more Another Enjoyable Chief Inspector Gamache Mystery Book Four of Louise Penny's Chief Inspector Gamache series, \"<+++>A Rule Against Murder</+++>\", unlike the previous books, is not set in the picturesque Quebecois village of Three Pines (although the protagonists do pay Three Pines a visit). Instead, most of the action occurs at the Manoir Bellechasse, a luxurious and remote Quebec Inn (patterned on the real Hovey Manor). Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the homicide division of the Montreal Surete and his wi Another Enjoyable Chief Inspector Gamache Mystery Book Four of Louise Penny's Chief Inspector Gamache series, \"<+++>A Rule Against Murder</+++>\", unlike the previous books, is not set in the picturesque Quebecois village of Three Pines (although the protagonists do pay Three Pines a visit). Instead, most of the action occurs at the Manoir Bellechasse, a luxurious and remote Quebec Inn (patterned on the real Hovey Manor). Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the homicide division of the Montreal Surete and his wife, Reine-Marie, are on vacation. They go to Manoir Bellechasse every year to celebrate their anniversary. This year is their thirty-fifth. The Gamaches are sharing the inn with the wealthy and toxic Finney family, who have their annual family reunion at Manoir Bellechasse. It turns out that <---C>Peter Morrow</---C>, Gamache's artist buddy from Three Pines, is a reluctant member of the Finney tribe. He and his wife Clara are at Manoir Bellechasse for the family reunion. Clara can't wait to get away from the Finneys. She doesn't like them, although she adores her husband Peter. The Gamaches' idyllic and relaxing retreat at Manoir Bellechasse is interrupted by--what else?--a suspicious death. The body of the beautiful Julia Martin, one of the Morrow sisters, turns up on the grounds of Manoir Bellechasse, next to the newly installed statue which is a memorial to the late Charles Morrow, Julia's estranged father. Julia was alive the previous evening. She is in the middle of a divorce. Her ex-husband David Martin is in prison because of his shady financial dealings. A police investigation proceeds. Gamache's usual subordinates show up--Jean-Guy Beauvoir and Isabelle LaCoste. There are many suspects, as the Finney/Morrow family is a seething cauldron of resentment, hostility, dysfunction, and possibly even insanity, hidden under a polite veneer. The staff is also under suspicion. We learn a lot more about Peter Morrow, including his well hidden dark side. Other players/suspects include the following people. Irene Finney is the family matriarch. She enjoys employing the nasty verbal barb to wound people. Charles Morrow is her dead first husband. She is now married to Bert Finney, a life long friend and employee of Charles. Peter's siblings (who call him \"Spot\") include the fat, unattractive, and apparently flaky Marianna Morrow (nicknamed \"Megillah\" by family members), who has a beautiful child of indeterminate sex. The child's name is Bean. There is also the resentful and arrogant Thomas Morrow. Thomas is married to Sandra Morrow, who is always complaining to the hotel staff. Thomas (and everyone else) usually ignore Sandra. Sandra makes herself obnoxious to get the attention she craves. The hotel staff includes Madame Dubois, the elegant elderly proprietor; Chef Veronique, a large woman who is a world class chef; Pierre Patenaude, the maitre d'hotel; Eliot, an insolent and handsome young waiter; and Colleen, a young gardener. I guessed who the murderer was (although I wasn't sure, since there were many possible suspects), but not how and why the perpetrator committed the crime. I did enjoy the book, but I find that after a few books many of these series become somewhat repetitive. I think I'm going to take a break from this series for a long while. Ralph Cosham does his usual wonderful job of reading the audio. His understated style is very suitable for this material. ...more Seems I've never wrote a review about the 4th in Penny's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache. Oh well, there's plenty of other reviews. I do remember liking it as Three Pines is like coming home. One of the wonderful things about a Louise Penny novel is that it is not just a whodunit. The reader needs to figure out how it was done ... as are Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team. In A Fatal Grace the victim was electrocuted in the middle of a frozen lake, in front of the entire village. In The Cruelest Month the victim dies during a s\u00e9ance. The author delivers another murder most unusual in this story. Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their 35th wedding anniversary at One of the wonderful things about a Louise Penny novel is that it is not just a whodunit. The reader needs to figure out how it was done ... as are Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team. In A Fatal Grace the victim was electrocuted in the middle of a frozen lake, in front of the entire village. In The Cruelest Month the victim dies during a s\u00e9ance. The author delivers another murder most unusual in this story. Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their 35th wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines. Each year they return to the manor to celebrate their wedding anniversary on July 1, Canada Day. This year though their holiday is not the peaceful celebratory getaway they had hoped for. The Finney family\u2014rich and dysfunctional \u2014has also arrived for a family reunion. This reunion will be different \u2013 the family is installing a statue of the patriarch Charles Morrow on the grounds of the resort. The morning after the installation and dedication of the statue it is found toppled on daughter Julia ... with her arms open as though to embrace her father. A statue that weighed tons and was mounted on a pedestal. How did it happen? In addition to Julia, recently divorced and whose ex-husband is in prison for stock fraud, the other members of the Finney family include a distant elderly mother and stepfather; Thomas and Sandra, a son and daughter-in-law who are equal parts obnoxiousness and meanness; Marianna, an unmarried daughter with a 10-year-old child named Bean. A fourth sibling and his wife, whom they refer to as Spot and Claire turn out to be Peter and Clara Morrow, the Gamaches\u2019 artist friends from Three Pines. In each of the novels in this series we learn more about the characters. In this story we learn about Peter Morrow and his family. We also learn about Armand Gamache's father. What we learn is informative and surprising. It helps explain the men they are today. I must admit that, having read earlier novels, Peter Morrow was not my favorite Three Pines resident. After reading this novel and learning about the family he grew up in I am somewhat understanding and sympathetic. After I read a Armand Gamache novel I find myself thinking I would like to meet him (if he was real), I would like to visit Three Pines and after this novel avoid family reunions. ...more I began reading this book with high expectations. It had received a lot of praise and high ratings. So naturally I was eager to unravel its mysteries. But unfortunately, it was a letdown. I am not sure whether the author was trying to write a crime thriller or a family drama. I would not call this a thriller, as there is no thrill. None what so ever. There were a few good points and a lot of bad points which made me give this book 2 stars. SPOILER ALERTS!! POSITIVE POINTS 1. Setting. The protago I began reading this book with high expectations. It had received a lot of praise and high ratings. So naturally I was eager to unravel its mysteries. But unfortunately, it was a letdown. I am not sure whether the author was trying to write a crime thriller or a family drama. I would not call this a thriller, as there is no thrill. None what so ever. There were a few good points and a lot of bad points which made me give this book 2 stars. SPOILER ALERTS!! POSITIVE POINTS 1. Setting. The protagonist is Canadian. And the setting is in Quebec, Canada. It is a major plus point of the novel. There are only so many American detectives you can read about. It was refreshing to see a detective who is also a family man for a change. Most detective stories feature detectives who are scarred in some way, either always alone or divorced, cussing regularly. But not here. 2. How. The \u2018how\u2019 in the book was quite interesting. When you write a seemingly impossible murder you must make sure you have a plausible and interesting explanation. That has been nailed here. Both how the murder was committed and how the protagonist figures it out was brilliant. 3. Dialogues. Some of the dialogues were brilliantly written. They would have fitted more in Russian literature, but they were good none the less. There is some light humour and some witty dialogues as well. NEGATIVE POINTS 1. Plot. The plot was a major let down. It\u2019s basically a locked room mystery, having taken place in a remote cottage. But more than 50% of the book has absolutely nothing to do with the murder. Instead we get to read about a dysfunctional family which is dysfunctional for no particular reason. We read about the good inspector and his family, including completely pointless flashbacks of his father who is supposedly a coward. (Not sure why refusing to go to war and participate in violence is cowardice.) Not to mention one of the strangest father son conversations I have ever seen. The book is filled with situations and dialogues which have nothing to do with anything. Poems and pointless philosophical conversations overshadow the actual murder and its investigation. 2. Characters. This is the part which irked me most. The author tries very hard to show the readers that Armand is such a good person. A good friend, a great husband etc. He plays papa bear to pretty much everybody and all of his colleagues seem to want to impress him, get a pat from him, bask in his approval and as one of them puts it, \u201che longed to fall into his arms, like a child. He was deeply surprised and ashamed of the nearly overwhelming urge. It was as though a hand was shoving him firmly from behind, toward this powerful, commanding man.\u201d The Morrows are another matter. Their depiction confuses readers as there is no particular reason for their peculiar behaviour. Nothing tragic has really happened to them for them to be as extreme as they are. If stern fathers were all that took to create the type of people here, there would be a morrow in pretty much half the world. There is a character who names her child \u2018Bean\u2019 and refuses to reveal whether the child is a boy or a girl just to spite her mother. (And the child is nearly hitting puberty!) She even considers renaming him syphilis because her mother got used to Bean! You would think that something terrible must have happened to her like to Lisbeth Salander for her to act like that. But in reality, nothing has really happened. The character of Bean himself draws attention to him/herself only to disappoint readers that he/she was of no particular significance other than proving a philosophical point and a roof top ending. 3. Pace. The murder itself takes its sweet own time to appear. And when it does there is no thrill which is generally found in crime stories. The killer is among them and yet no one is in a hurry to catch the killer. The Inspector himself is busy discussing poems and having philosophical (and pointless) conversations about his father with his father\u2019s old friend. There are a few twists and turns, but they were a letdown. There is no sense of urgency. 4. Murder. The murder itself was confusing. The \u2018how\u2019 itself was brilliant but the \u2018why\u2019 was a big mystery. The murderer\u2019s reason does not really convince me. Murderer says that the arrival of the victim triggered an urge, that the murderer couldn\u2019t take the injustice anymore. Was it then a crime of passion? But the incident that triggered the murder was a long time ago and the victim didn\u2019t have anything to do with it. If it was because of passion I would expect a kitchen knife and a stab wound. But the method of killing was most unusual. It was well planned and took several days to execute. Was it then a crime of opportunity? Or premeditated? But then what purpose would it serve? The victim had nothing to do with the murderer\u2019s grief at all! As a family drama this book would provide quite an entertainment. I suspect most readers liked it for the same reason. But as a crime mystery this was a letdown. ...more Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie, are celebrating their thirty-five-year wedding anniversary by staying at Manoir Bellechasse for a few days. The rich, cultured, respectable Finney family, an old- or no money family, living in a meritocracy, graces their presence in this remote auberge. One of the family's members desrcibes the family as \u201cseven mad Morrows in a verch\u00e8re\u201d. The matriarch was now a Finney, but was actually still a Marrow in many ways. So much so, that she wanted a s Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie, are celebrating their thirty-five-year wedding anniversary by staying at Manoir Bellechasse for a few days. The rich, cultured, respectable Finney family, an old- or no money family, living in a meritocracy, graces their presence in this remote auberge. One of the family's members desrcibes the family as \u201cseven mad Morrows in a verch\u00e8re\u201d. The matriarch was now a Finney, but was actually still a Marrow in many ways. So much so, that she wanted a statue erected for her late husband Charles, who passed away eighteen years before. To the Gamache's big surprise, they encounter two of their old friends of Three Pines, Peter and Clara Morrow, there as part of the Finney family reunion. Their annual reunion served no real purpose apart from honoring the matriarch's wishes to see her estranged children once a year. Morrows lie, and Morrows keep secrets. It\u2019s our currency. , says one of the members, and before long, it is confirmed when one of the members is killed. The problem in solving the case, is that the family lives in their own world, refusing reality to enter. Their animosity towards each other, and their disconnection from people who do not belong in their social circles is like a madness, caused often in abused people, especially children. By disconnecting from their own truth, is not only the sanest thing to do under their circumstances, it is also the only way they could survive their own memories. The owner, staff and guests of Manoir Bellechasse, including Chief Inspector Gamache, are suddenly confronted with their own secrets and childhood memories. \u2018To have it all and to lose it. That\u2019s what this case was about, says Armand Gamache.\u2019 While the holiday started out in a place so beautiful, nature had to break it into two with a mirror image on the lake of the mountains and the beautiful surroundings celebrating summer, Inspector Gamache had no other choice but to call in his famous team again. Inspector Beauvoir, the alpha dog in the team, the whip-smart, tightly wound second in command who believed in the triumph of facts over feelings , is not excited to be there at all. He is trying to ignore the mosquitoes and blackflies and no-see-\u2019ems. At least in Montreal you see what\u2019s coming at you. Cars. Trucks. Kids jonesing on crack. Big things. Out here everything\u2019s hidden, everything\u2019s hiding. Tiny bloodsucking bugs, spiders and snakes and animals in the forests, rotten wiring behind walls made from tree trunks for God\u2019s sake. It was like trying to conduct a modern murder investigation in Fred Flintstone\u2019s cave. Where Gamache sees peace and quiet and beauty, Inspector Beauvoir sees hell. He sees chaos and discomfort and bugs. Both are true. Agent Lacoste is the hunter, the observer, the quiet, stealthy listener. Armand Gamache was the explorer. He went ahead of all the rest, into territory unknown and uncharted. He was drawn to the edge of things. To the places old mariners knew, and warned, \u2018Beyond here be monsters.\u2019 That\u2019s where Chief Inspector Gamache could be found. He stepped into the beyond, and found the monsters hidden deep inside all the reasonable, gentle, laughing people. He went where even they were afraid to go. Armand Gamache followed slimy trails, deep into a person\u2019s psyche, and there, huddled and barely human, he found the murderer. The murder investigation becomes a journey through history, memories, broken relationships, bitter sibling rivalry, childhood hardships and buried secrets. While it ends with sorrow and sadness, the final item is revealed when the Pandora's box is opened at last. Ninety-five-year-old Mr. Finney summarizes the events and revelations by saying: \u2018You know what money buys?\u2019 Gamache shook his head. \u2018I\u2019m an accountant and I\u2019ve spent a lifetime counting money and watching the people who have it. Do you know what I\u2019ve decided? The only thing money really buys?\u2019 Gamache waited. \u2018Space.\u2019 \u2018Space?\u2019 Gamache repeated. \u2018A bigger house, a bigger car, a larger hotel room. First class plane tickets. But it doesn\u2019t even buy comfort. No one complains more than the rich and entitled. Comfort, security, ease. None of that comes with money.\u2019 A thoroughly enjoyable murder mystery with many, intriguing, layers of human experiences intertwined. Once again there is passion, compassion, unresolved feelings, secrets and magic buried in this addictive word-castle of a brilliant author. Mmm... voice like a root vegetable ... has anyone ever heard that voice? I have my ear on the ground for that one, for sure! While Chief Inspector Armand Gamache saved lives and sanity and a family, this author saved my sanity with this wonderful, entertaining murder mystery. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. ...more I'm mad at Louise Penny because of book #5 in the Three Pines/Chief Inspector Gamache mysteries, and I want to take it out on her now, but in fairness I just can't. I loved this book as much as I expected to. I thought that moving the action out of Three Pines would make me grumpy, but instead it made me feel, more than ever, that I want to live in Three Pines because Manoir Bellechasse is close for those times I need to get away from the hectic hustle and bustle of Three Pines (snort). The Gamac I'm mad at Louise Penny because of book #5 in the Three Pines/Chief Inspector Gamache mysteries, and I want to take it out on her now, but in fairness I just can't. I loved this book as much as I expected to. I thought that moving the action out of Three Pines would make me grumpy, but instead it made me feel, more than ever, that I want to live in Three Pines because Manoir Bellechasse is close for those times I need to get away from the hectic hustle and bustle of Three Pines (snort). The Gamaches seem so at home in the splendid, isolated Manoir, with its beautiful robber-baron-era main building and its spectacular lake. The murder this time is one I was saddened by; the murderer was one I felt so strongly about that I hollered at the pages, \"Don't do it!\" in the vain hope I could alter the course of the action. I couldn't. Damn. But the real surprise here is the Morrows...Peter and Clara Morrow show up at the Manoir to be at a special family reunion of Peter's horrid family. I know families like this exist. I belong to one. But it's really distasteful to watch the Morrow clan in action. I suppose if my family still had money, we'd behave pretty much exactly like the Morrows, and I mean exactly, down to every detail of the action. Recessions, divorces, and bad business decisions be praised! I like Clara a little less now; I like Peter almost not at all; and the Gamaches are aces in my book, though I suspect that Armand would wear on me if he's really like he was at the very, very end of this book...a little too perfect. And I still could not WAIT to get to book five! I was panting for it! Bah. Humbug. ...more I just want to hang out with Armand Gamache. He is such a calm, practical person to be around, and you just know that he'll figure out who did what and why. In this entry into the series, Armand and his wife, Reine-Marie, are spending their anniversary at their favorite lodge, not far from Three Pines. While they there, a family reunion is going on also, with a family that seems such in name only--they are related to each other, but there is no affection displayed or even seemingly felt among th I just want to hang out with Armand Gamache. He is such a calm, practical person to be around, and you just know that he'll figure out who did what and why. In this entry into the series, Armand and his wife, Reine-Marie, are spending their anniversary at their favorite lodge, not far from Three Pines. While they there, a family reunion is going on also, with a family that seems such in name only--they are related to each other, but there is no affection displayed or even seemingly felt among these relatives. The daughter of the family is murdered by a fallen statue--how did the statue fall, and why was this woman, of all of them, the victim. Armand and his team solve this crime in their sensible, yet somewhat sensitive way--in that they try to be sensitive to the family, and the lodge's owner and staff. The murderer came as a surprise to me (not unusual--unfortunately, I seem to learn nothing from all the mysteries I read :)), yet a another mystery remains unanswered at the end of the book--cool. ...more Louise Penny is a master in the murder mystery genre. A Rule Against Murder, the fourth in her Chief Inspector Gamache series, takes us places in the minds of her characters like no other writer out there. The setting for this book is different from her usual Three Pines. The Gamaches are at a resort in the wilderness celebrating their anniversary. Here we get to meet the Finneys for a family reunion, and an interesting one at that. We meet a family full of abuse and cruelty for themselves and e Louise Penny is a master in the murder mystery genre. A Rule Against Murder, the fourth in her Chief Inspector Gamache series, takes us places in the minds of her characters like no other writer out there. The setting for this book is different from her usual Three Pines. The Gamaches are at a resort in the wilderness celebrating their anniversary. Here we get to meet the Finneys for a family reunion, and an interesting one at that. We meet a family full of abuse and cruelty for themselves and everyone around them. Interestingly, Peter and Clara Morrow of Three Pines are part of this family. I thoroughly enjoyed listening to the audiobook narrated by Ralph Cosham. Penny does so well at mixing crime and the beauty of the surroundings. Highly recommend this book and the series. 5 out of 5 stars.. ...more I've been hooked on Louise Penny 's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series since I read her debut novel, Still Life . Yet, as great as the novels have been, A Rule Against Murder still somehow manages to top all of the previous ones. As ever, Penny plots out an interesting murder mystery that keeps you guessing until the end. However, what truly will delight the reader are the secrets revealed about Peter Morrow's well-to-do family and one about Armand Gamache himself. The theme of when to remember I've been hooked on Louise Penny 's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series since I read her debut novel, Still Life . Yet, as great as the novels have been, A Rule Against Murder still somehow manages to top all of the previous ones. As ever, Penny plots out an interesting murder mystery that keeps you guessing until the end. However, what truly will delight the reader are the secrets revealed about Peter Morrow's well-to-do family and one about Armand Gamache himself. The theme of when to remember -- and when to forget -- the past proves fascinating. I'm looking forward to reading the fifth book in this series, The Brutal Telling . But not yet. I want to savor this one just a little bit longer. After all, how could even the talented Ms. Penny improve on A Rule Against Murder ? One side note: The lovely resort in the novel, Manoir Bellechasse, is loosely based on the Manoir Hovey, a favorite with Louise Penny. With this novel, Manoir Hovey should prepare itself for an influx of guests who've read about the fictional Manoir Bellechasse and want to experience the real one. ...more I have listened to this series and Inspector Gamache is the perfect companion for my commute. This one took the reader away from Three Pines and I enjoyed the many glimpses into Gamaches life and even his demons. Each one is getting just a bit better as these characters have become more familiar to me, almost like good, comfortable old friends. The murder in this one left me guessing right up until the reveal....and no guess was correct. Not the who or how. I love when the light bulb comes on a I have listened to this series and Inspector Gamache is the perfect companion for my commute. This one took the reader away from Three Pines and I enjoyed the many glimpses into Gamaches life and even his demons. Each one is getting just a bit better as these characters have become more familiar to me, almost like good, comfortable old friends. The murder in this one left me guessing right up until the reveal....and no guess was correct. Not the who or how. I love when the light bulb comes on and leaves me saying \"AHHH\". As always a solid 4.5 stars. ...more The thing about returning to work after the holidays and then going away for the weekend seriously impacts on your reading time. However I have finally finished number 4 in the Armand Gamache series, thoroughly enjoyed it, and didn't guess whodunnit. Bring on number 5. I just finished Book 4 of the Three Pines Mysteries, featuring the sublime Inspector Gamache. The narrator for these books, Ralph Cosham, is just excellent. He has the perfect manner, inflection and timber of voice for the characters and general narration, not to mention his excellent French, of which I don't speak a word! If I could get all of these audiobooks from my local library, I would listen to this entire series. It was refreshing for the murder investigation in this book to take place ou I just finished Book 4 of the Three Pines Mysteries, featuring the sublime Inspector Gamache. The narrator for these books, Ralph Cosham, is just excellent. He has the perfect manner, inflection and timber of voice for the characters and general narration, not to mention his excellent French, of which I don't speak a word! If I could get all of these audiobooks from my local library, I would listen to this entire series. It was refreshing for the murder investigation in this book to take place outside of Three Pines village. Reading / listening to these back to back require a break from some of the more ostentatious villagers. Instead of an idyllic village, we visit an idyllic bed and breakfast. Let's face it, if it's not an idyllic setting, it doesn't belong in these books! Needless to say, for fans of Three Pines, murder was committed, secrets were revealed and the case was solved in the nick of time. Throw in a snobby family that you're going to love to hate and it was a pretty satisfying read! 3.5 stars ...more See, the problem with setting this mystery at Manoir Bellechasse, a vacation resort in the wilderness, is that I go to Three Pines for a mental vacation already. Taking me on vacation from my vacation spot just annoys the heck out of me. I don't want a big house with a fancy chef and bugs, full of annoying guests! I want a cozy village with a B&B and regular townfolk. I wished I was at the Clogging Competition instead of hanging out with the totally irredeemably godawful Finney clan. I did n See, the problem with setting this mystery at Manoir Bellechasse, a vacation resort in the wilderness, is that I go to Three Pines for a mental vacation already. Taking me on vacation from my vacation spot just annoys the heck out of me. I don't want a big house with a fancy chef and bugs, full of annoying guests! I want a cozy village with a B&B and regular townfolk. I wished I was at the Clogging Competition instead of hanging out with the totally irredeemably godawful Finney clan. I did not at all understand what the hell was going on between Beauvoir and the Chef, or Elliot and the Ma\u00eetre d'Hotel. I did not get why a mother wouldn't tell her kids about her chronic pain condition. I was baffled by the motive for murder and the weird choice of method. Also didn't get the bird on the statue or the problem with Honore Gamache or the weird fatherly sayings of Charles Morrow or the kid named Bean. The whole thing was an exercise in frustration, confusion and annoyance and it is only due to my desire to know how the statue got off the pedestal that I made it to the end without surrendering it to the abandoned pile. Not my favourite Louise Penny, but having read all the rest, I will persevere into book six. Please let there be less philosophizing, navel-gazing, theorizing and randomly cruel and hateful characters in the next one. ...more Brilliant. I have finally found a replacement for P.D. James - someone who writes mysteries that are as rich and deep and literate, as gifted at viewing human character, and as high-calibre with building the whodunit, but without the thread of haunting despair that runs through all James novels, particularly her Dalgliesh mysteries. Both writers plunge the reader immediately into a richly layered world, and both explore the surprises, the dusty and ugly corners, the twisty labyrinth of the human Brilliant. I have finally found a replacement for P.D. James - someone who writes mysteries that are as rich and deep and literate, as gifted at viewing human character, and as high-calibre with building the whodunit, but without the thread of haunting despair that runs through all James novels, particularly her Dalgliesh mysteries. Both writers plunge the reader immediately into a richly layered world, and both explore the surprises, the dusty and ugly corners, the twisty labyrinth of the human heart, but the main difference is this - Louise Penny views human beings with hope and gentlenesss. James views them with an unfiltered darkness - hence the bitter, often open-ended conclusions of many of her novels, the sense that justice has not been done, or if it has, that it is not a pure or kind thing but an instrument that spreads even more unhappiness, chaos, and disorder. No, I loved James for the complexity of her writing, but I always walked away from her novels haunted and uneasy - and I walk away from this Penny novel profoundly satisfied, both at the denouement of the mystery - did not suspect the murderer's identity at all - and at the sheer happiness in deep human relationships that the novel portrayed and ultimately ended on. Love. ...more The second of Louise Penny's Gamache series I've read...each is a stand alone, but there may be merit in reading them in order as the character development is wonderful. Her writing is intelligent and frequently laugh-out-loud funny. I find her descriptions of small events make me appreciate simple things. Not all her sentences are lengthy, but the following quote is one I wish I'd been thoughtful enough to write. She's speaking of someone escaping from an argumentative, caustic crowd of relation The second of Louise Penny's Gamache series I've read...each is a stand alone, but there may be merit in reading them in order as the character development is wonderful. Her writing is intelligent and frequently laugh-out-loud funny. I find her descriptions of small events make me appreciate simple things. Not all her sentences are lengthy, but the following quote is one I wish I'd been thoughtful enough to write. She's speaking of someone escaping from an argumentative, caustic crowd of relations into a more peaceful place \"...to stop noticing the malevolent inflections that rode into polite conversation on the backs of reasonable words.\" I was delighted to see that her method (proven now in two books) is to introduce sub-plots that matter. It proved itself successful when I found myself wondering about the odd child who cannot jump while doing dishes--and eager to get back to the book to see where she was going with it--an interesting but peripheral part of the main story. Her writing is worth reading, but you do have to engage your brain. ...more Description: It is the height of summer, and Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines. But they're not alone. The Finney family -- rich, cultured, and respectable -- has also arrived for a celebration of their own. The beautiful Manoir Bellechasse might be surrounded by nature, but there is something unnatural looming. As the heat rises and the humidity closes in, some surpris Description: It is the height of summer, and Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines. But they're not alone. The Finney family -- rich, cultured, and respectable -- has also arrived for a celebration of their own. The beautiful Manoir Bellechasse might be surrounded by nature, but there is something unnatural looming. As the heat rises and the humidity closes in, some surprising guests turn up at the family reunion, and a terrible summer storm leaves behind a dead body. It is up to Chief Inspector Gamache to unearth secrets long buried and hatreds hidden behind polite smiles. The chase takes him to Three Pines, into the dark corners of his own life, and finally to a harrowing climax. Opening: More than a century ago the Robber Barons discovered Lac Massawippi. They came with purpose from Montreal, Boston, New York, and burrowing deep into the Canadian wilderness they built the great lodge. Though, of course, they didn\u2019t actually dirty their own hands. What clung to them was something else entirely. No, these men hired men with names like Zoetique, Telesphore and Honore to hack down the massive and ancient forests. At first the Quebecois were resistant, having lived in the forest all their lives. This is the one with Bean, Spot, a summer storm, myriad flies and Les bourgeois de Calais by Rodin: I caught the 'how' early but the 'who' and 'why' had me struggling. Great fun! 4* Still Life CR The Murder Stone ...more I'd really like to give this book 2 1/2 stars. I ended up giving it 3 because I enjoyed the main character, Armand Gamache, very much, and his wife, Reine-Marie, almost as much. (I think I'd like her better if her name weren't Queen Mary...) Gamache reminds me of a French-Canadian Guido Brunetti (for those who don't know him, check out Donna Leon ). Or maybe Guido is a Venetian Armand Gamache. Anyway, they are both dedicated, experienced, prudent, happy at home, and eaters and lovers of lots of g I'd really like to give this book 2 1/2 stars. I ended up giving it 3 because I enjoyed the main character, Armand Gamache, very much, and his wife, Reine-Marie, almost as much. (I think I'd like her better if her name weren't Queen Mary...) Gamache reminds me of a French-Canadian Guido Brunetti (for those who don't know him, check out Donna Leon ). Or maybe Guido is a Venetian Armand Gamache. Anyway, they are both dedicated, experienced, prudent, happy at home, and eaters and lovers of lots of good food. I was not as enthralled with the mystery per se. The solution was lame. In fact, the motivations for many of the bizarre actions of the characters did not convince me. (Prime example: the woman who is concealing her child's gender from the rest of her family...to \"get even\" with her mother. Huh?) I could go on and on with ridiculous positions she forces her characters to take and the inconsistencies in her characterizations. Unless her point is that We All See Things Differently, I have no idea why one character (supposed to be a Voice of Reason, I think) describes a friend as a wonderful person who loved his children so much, while each child was convinced the father hated them and, from what Penny tells you about the guy's behavior, not without reason. What the author is successful in creating, if not plot or character (other than Armand), is a sense of place. I'd love to spend time at the inn that is the setting for this book. Just not with any of the characters who populate it, except, of course, for Armand. AND the cook! ...more I didn't love this as much as the other Gamache novels. Nevertheless, it features many of the things we love about Gamache. He is noble, and dedicated to the art of finding murderers. In this novel, he is at a resort when a murder occurs. It is a resort he has long visited with his wife. At the center of the story is an exceedingly unpleasant family. Penny portrays the self absorbed character of this way brilliantly. Gamache is at the end a hero and has solved the mystery by paying careful atten I didn't love this as much as the other Gamache novels. Nevertheless, it features many of the things we love about Gamache. He is noble, and dedicated to the art of finding murderers. In this novel, he is at a resort when a murder occurs. It is a resort he has long visited with his wife. At the center of the story is an exceedingly unpleasant family. Penny portrays the self absorbed character of this way brilliantly. Gamache is at the end a hero and has solved the mystery by paying careful attention to the smallest things. I was confused at one point listening to the audio by the two characters Peter and Pierre and Peter is the English translation of Pierre. Luckily Penny provides a lot of detail at the end of the novel wrapping up the entire story. ...more There are 2 reasons i love this series. First and foremost - reading a mystery book brings a sense of satisfaction rarely found in life. I tend to read books with HEA - the couple gets together, the bad guy gets his just desserts, the hero conquers. But - i tend to know these things are coming, and i'm not frequently allowed to participate in the action. A mystery book changes that. While i do know there's likely to be an HEA - i don't know the form in which it will come. Thus i get to spend the There are 2 reasons i love this series. First and foremost - reading a mystery book brings a sense of satisfaction rarely found in life. I tend to read books with HEA - the couple gets together, the bad guy gets his just desserts, the hero conquers. But - i tend to know these things are coming, and i'm not frequently allowed to participate in the action. A mystery book changes that. While i do know there's likely to be an HEA - i don't know the form in which it will come. Thus i get to spend the entire book spinning wild conjecture, assuming everything is a clue, and suspecting everyone. At the story's conclusion i'm like to expire from sheer enthusiasm and delight. No matter if my theory was true - or ridiculously off-base - i've been afforded the opportunity to play along. For 300 pages i'm Chief Inspector Armand Gamache - and that's wonderful. Second - this writing. It's like Xanax. A warm bubbly bath. Hot chamomile tea. Regardless of what else is going on - these books are so soothing they're nearly hypnotic. It seems odd, right? Shouldn't a murder mystery have me on the edge of my seat? And maybe it sort of does. But the description of the lobster salad and the droning bees and the lapping lake and the love btw Armand and Reine- Marie? They're balm to the soul. I don't think i read any books more comforting than this series. Every word - each page - each chapter - is carefully and artfully crafted to bring the reader to a world that's warm and hazy and safe - and rife with murder. ...more Each one in the series gets a little bit better as characters become more fleshed out. There were at least three laugh out loud moments, I think all comments by Gamache. I still want to know about Bean-- boy or girl? Minha opini\u00e3o aqui: http://anealecorvoliterarios.blogspot... Fourth in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache cozy mystery series set outside Montreal, Canada, and revolving around the inspector. A Rule Against Murder won the Arthur Ellis Award Finalist for Best Novel in 2009. My Take A very intense story about Peter's family. And all those wasted years. The things family does to you that you carry with you all your life. The events that affect how you see the world. What's truly terrifying in this is how unloving they are as they participate in the metaphorical Fourth in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache cozy mystery series set outside Montreal, Canada, and revolving around the inspector. A Rule Against Murder won the Arthur Ellis Award Finalist for Best Novel in 2009. My Take A very intense story about Peter's family. And all those wasted years. The things family does to you that you carry with you all your life. The events that affect how you see the world. What's truly terrifying in this is how unloving they are as they participate in the metaphorical biting and stabbing. The bit where Marianna fantasizes about changing Bean's name, that she only takes joy in how her own child's name will hurt her mother\u2026sick\u2026 She doesn't even consider how such names would affect her child! And yet they are so desperate to be loved. You simply have to look at the Finney/Morrows and know that if there were more love demonstrated in the world, the world would be happier. What you will love is that snobby assumption by the Morrows\u2026I had to laugh when the murderous couple was pointed out! That confrontation with his siblings certainly has unleashed the beast in Peter. One who has been clawing and snarling to emerge. Now, I'm dying to dive into The Brutal Telling and find out how Peter has been changed by this. We learn so much about Peter's family, and also about Gamache's past. Penny introduces his past so beautifully and avoids the dreaded info dump. It's beautiful. The story. Honor\u00e9's bravery. His son's love. Then there's a very telling moment when Mother takes Clara to task at the end over names! Penny takes this and soars with it, providing food for thought, and lessons for the future. One lesson certainly, to love your children as equally as possible. Gamache has always been interested in poetry from the very first book in the series, Still Life , and this particular story finds a greater interest in it. It's one of the few stories that raises my interest in poetry. I simply adore Louise Penny. She sets a cozy scene with characters you love and hate. She pulls me in. Then she proceeds to baffle me with the how s and why s. It's like reading an Agatha Christie but set in today's world. I also adore the give-and-take between Armand and Reine-Marie. It's playful, respectful, and so full of love. The Story A family reunion goes awry---ain't it always the way? It's murder on so many levels. A literal death as well as too many emotional murders as the Morrow siblings clash and bite at each other and their mother. The Characters Chief Inspector Armand Gamache still works at the S\u00fbret\u00e9 in Montreal as head of homicide. His beloved wife, Reine-Marie , is a librarian. Daniel is the son who lives in Paris whose wife, Roslyn , is about to give birth to their second child. Florence is their first. Honor\u00e9 Gamache was Armand's notorious father. Zora is the woman who became Armand's grandmother. The police Inspector Jean Guy Beauvoir is Gamache's second-in-command with a decided preference for the city. And his wife, Enid , may be in for some problems. Agent Isabelle Lacoste finds it difficult to put herself in this victim's shoes. Dr. Sharon Harris is the coroner. The resort hotel, Manoir Bellechasse Madame Clementine Dubois owns the Manoir Bellechasse , an old log cabin hunting lodge in the grand style of the Newport cottages. I do love her philosophy for the place and the forest. If only more people were like her. Pierre Patenaude is the ma\u00eetre d' at the Manoir with an old-world sense of service. He sees the young employees as his children. Chef V\u00e9ronique Langlois is a marvel in the kitchen and in unrequited love with Pierre. The too-cheeky Elliot Byrne teeters on the brink of being fired. Colleen is the young gardener who finds the body. The snobbish, self-righteous, and insecure Morrow/Finneys The gifted artistic Peter , a.k.a., Spot, and Clara Morrow are artists who live in Three Pines; Peter has been famous for years while Clara is about to have her first one-woman show in a very prestigious gallery. He has a happy marriage and a circle of loving friends, yet he's viewed as greedy and cruel. The mediocre Thomas Morrow , the oldest, is seen as successful. His cold, insecure, and miserable wife, Sandra , seems a perfect match for him. Both punishing each other. Julia Martin is the second oldest and recently returned to the fold of family now that her about-to-be ex-husband, David Martin , was imprisoned for his deeds. Marianna , a.k.a., Magilla, the youngest, the most passionate, and the most successful is seen as a failure. One with a grudge she uses her with her sexless child, Bean , to hurt her mother. Bert Finney is married to the cold, rude, and mean matriarch, Irene Finney . He's one of the few to believe he has blessings to count. Charles Morrow is the first husband and the children's father. The core characters in Three Pines Ruth is still being followed by Rosa , the baby duck she rescued in The Cruelest Month , 3. Gabri has an explanation for his nickname while Olivier is in the background on this one. Yves Pelletier is a sculptor with some intriguing insights. Soeur Marie Ang\u00e8le had a famous cooking show, Midi Avec Ma Soeur . The Cover The cover is perfect with its askew steps leading crookedly from a bright and colorful start into a dark future. The title is Madame Dubois' comment, A Rule Against Murder , which she and her husband set in place when they first bought the place. ...more The Manoir Bellechasse was carved out of the Quebec forest in a past Canadian Gilded Age. Yet it retains its earthy roots. Nearby is tranquil Lac Massawippi, ringed by ancient forests. Chef V\u00e9ronique harvests honey and beeswax from hives surrounded by blooms of honeysuckle, lilies, and roses. Artisanal cheeses and spirits from a nearby Benedictine abbey stock the larder. At night the stone terrasse embraces a brilliant star-studded sky. This idyllic lodge was cut from logs by coureur de bois ('m The Manoir Bellechasse was carved out of the Quebec forest in a past Canadian Gilded Age. Yet it retains its earthy roots. Nearby is tranquil Lac Massawippi, ringed by ancient forests. Chef V\u00e9ronique harvests honey and beeswax from hives surrounded by blooms of honeysuckle, lilies, and roses. Artisanal cheeses and spirits from a nearby Benedictine abbey stock the larder. At night the stone terrasse embraces a brilliant star-studded sky. This idyllic lodge was cut from logs by coureur de bois ('men of the forest' \u2013 so much more romantic than the American term, 'mountain men') \u2013 men who knew their land as well as their craft. The pristine setting is unmarred by television and cell phones. Wood burning fires ward off the chill; breezes bring relief from summer's heat. Without air conditioning, many summer nights are sweltering, but the guests don't mind \u2013 certainly not Armand Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie, who have vacationed here for the past 30 years to celebrate their wedding anniversary. Although the book opens with ominous foreboding, the first third of the book is filled with descriptions of the Manoir and the other guests, the Finneys, assembled for a family reunion. This is part of the problem. We know there will be a murder, but Penny first languishes with a detailed introduction to all of the characters. She introduces us to matriarch Irene Finney, her husband Bert, her adult children, Thomas, Julia and Marianna, Marianna's ten-year old child Bean (that's right \u2013 as in lima bean!), and Thomas' wife, malcontent Sandra. The family discloses they are awaiting the arrival of still another member of the clan. They refer to him by the nickname of 'Spot' with a barely concealed sneer. Penny also introduces the staff at the Manoir. The pace feels extremely slow. The third person narration is from Gamache's point of view, and Gamache is here to relax \u2013 to banish the suspicions and probing interrogations habitual for a chief inspector of homicide. The reader, on the other hand, can't wait for someone to get murdered! A second problem I had with the book was that I missed old friends. There is a village of Three Pines thread. For instance, the crusty poet Ruth appears briefly. Her welcoming greeting to Inspector Gamache: \u201cOh, for Chrissake....It's not Clouseau.\u201d (p.274). Of course, its delivered with the faintest hint of a smile. When Gamache's colleagues finally arrive, it feels like a breath of fresh air. Inspector Jean Guy Beauvoir, so scrupulous in attire, so emotionally reactive, steps out of his car in the middle of a downpour. \u201cHe looked down at his shoes. Leather. His slacks designer. His shirt. Casual linen. Perfect. F***ing middle of nowhere murder. In the rain. And mud. He slapped his cheek. And bugs. Flattened to his palm were the remains of a mosquito and some blood. F***ing perfect. Agent Isabelle Lacoste opened an umbrella and offered him one. He declined. Bad enough to be here, he didn't need to look like Mary Poppins.\u201d (p.93). Scrupulously efficient Agent Lacoste is less clearly drawn but nevertheless entertaining. Beauvoir continues to rhapsodize about the mysteries of bees and their honey, as they eat breakfast. \u201c'Did you know honey bees actually flap their wings over the honeycomb and that evaporates water?' said Beauvoir, chewing on a mouthful of honeycomb and trying to look as though it didn't taste like wax....Isabelle Lacoste dabbed fresh raspberry jam on a buttery croissant and looked at Beauvoir as though he was a bear of very little brain.\u201d (p. 271). As always, Penny enlivens her story with interesting historical details. We glimpse the on-going tensions between Francophone and Anglophone Canadians. The \u201cQuiet Revolution\u201d of the 1960's is alluded to as a time of disruption. English-speaking residents of Montreal felt alienated and friends and family left the province which had now become officially French-speaking. We also glimpse the class divisions that the two languages demarcated at the time. There are also allusions to World War II. Gamache mentions a Rodin sculpture, \u201cThe Burghers of Calais\u201d ( Les Bourgeois de Calais ), which he cites as a more apt representative of wartime commemoration than more prolific mounted generals and heroic statuary.(p.144). She includes a charming legend about a bird, the martlet. She discloses some of Gamache's own family history through conversations with his son, Daniel. This was an enjoyable story, but not one of Penny's best. I felt there were numerous plot holes, and an unnecessary overabundance of red herrings and melodramatic portents. I had hoped to pass this book on, but my friends are not as avid fans of the series as I am. NOTE: Be sure to look on the author's website: http://www.louisepenny.com . She includes an audio section on pronunciation for each of her books. I love hearing how these French phrases are actually pronounced, and she adds explanation to some of the puzzling phrases the characters use. ...more I think Penny is a good writer and I generally enjoy reading her, but in general I feel that her murderer's motives are weak. I read this book to see if she has gotten any better in this regard. But she disappointed me again. I find Gamache too perfect and most of the characters one-dimensional. But what really got to me was the HOW of the murder. What are we to imagine? That the murderer would guess that the victim would naturally come and look at the statue just as a huge thunderstorm is brewin I think Penny is a good writer and I generally enjoy reading her, but in general I feel that her murderer's motives are weak. I read this book to see if she has gotten any better in this regard. But she disappointed me again. I find Gamache too perfect and most of the characters one-dimensional. But what really got to me was the HOW of the murder. What are we to imagine? That the murderer would guess that the victim would naturally come and look at the statue just as a huge thunderstorm is brewing so that he could hide behind it and push it off its pedestal at just the right time so that the victim would not see what is happening and be incapable of moving out of the way? How long must the murderer have been out there hiding behind the pedestal for his chance? What if the victim just went to bed and the storm dissolved the sugar so that the statue couldn't be moved. The whole thing is too improbable. In fact, this whole method of murder is simply ridiculous. I also agree with an earlier comment about the motive. Really, why kill the wife of the man who destroyed your family when she wasn't even married to him at the time. Weak! Weak! If Gamache had worried more about the HOW of the murder, we wouldn't have had so much of the rest of the story that was really irrelevant to the murder itself. Of course, then we wouldn't have had a book to read. Also, if the murderer had not bolted, then what evidence would Gamache have had to link the murderer to the crime. It could just as well have been the cook who hated the victim because she thought that the maitre d' was falling for her and was jealous. Or it could have been Eliot if his family had lost a lot of money in the victim's husband's schemes. Any of the staff could have hoarded sugar. Did Gamache really know who the murderer was just because he figured out how the statue could have been tipped over? Beyond these sour notes, does anyone really believe BEAN? His mother is successful and rich but acts crazy because of her hatred of her mother? The mother was too proud to share her illness with her children? None of this really makes much sense. I can usually suspend some belief when I read a mystery, but Louise Penny goes too far for my taste. ...more - THE MURDER STONE (aka A Rule Against Murder) (Pol Proc-Ins. Gramache-Canada-Cont) \u2013 VG+ Penny, Louise \u2013 4th in series Headline, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780755341009 First Sentence: More than a century ago the Robber Barons discovered Lac Massawippi. Inspector Armund Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie have come to Manoir Bellechasse where they\u2019ve come for more than 30 years to celebrate their wedding anniversary. They find the rest of the rooms in the small hotel reserved by members of the Finney - THE MURDER STONE (aka A Rule Against Murder) (Pol Proc-Ins. Gramache-Canada-Cont) \u2013 VG+ Penny, Louise \u2013 4th in series Headline, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9780755341009 First Sentence: More than a century ago the Robber Barons discovered Lac Massawippi. Inspector Armund Gamache and his wife Reine-Marie have come to Manoir Bellechasse where they\u2019ve come for more than 30 years to celebrate their wedding anniversary. They find the rest of the rooms in the small hotel reserved by members of the Finney family. A surprise comes when the Gamache\u2019s discover two members of the Finney family are their friends Peter and Clara from Three Pines. It becomes a busman\u2019s holiday when one of the daughters is found dead under a newly installed memorial statue of her father. There is a much deeper layer to Ms. Penny\u2019s books than the normal mystery\u2014one that makes you think and then question those thoughts; to look at things in a new way and see them differently. Ms. Penny employs incredible imagery as well as poetry interspersed through the story, and wonderful humor. Characters are another great strength of Ms. Perry. Gamache is a man of many layers. We learn much more of his personal history. I love his relationship to his wife and his investigative team. The members of his team each have their own strengths and perspectives with the cumulative result of solving their cases. The Finney family members and hotel employees are just as well drawn. Each character is significant to the story. Ms. Penny also includes a bit of history of Quebec with an interesting perspective on the success of the Quebecois in the 1960 and that many of the young people left Quebec as they didn\u2019t speak French and found it difficult to get work. \u201cThey lost their children for the sake of a language.\u201d None of this overshadows the quality of the mystery itself. It is tightly plotted, intricate and clever with some excellent suspense. The clues are all there to be found, but I didn\u2019t put it together until it was presented. Ms. Penny is highly skilled in bringing together all these elements into one enormously enjoyable and satisfying read. ...more As if to make things needlessly complicated, once again this novel goes under another name for the Amazon.com Kindle edition. This one is published as The Murder Stone. A Rule Against Murder is so much better. Anyways. This is the fourth in the Inspector Gamache series. I was excited to finally reach the point where I had heard the series really \"takes off\" in scope. Well, yeah. For one thing, this is not set in Three Pines, which is pretty good given the fact that a tiny village can only sustain As if to make things needlessly complicated, once again this novel goes under another name for the Amazon.com Kindle edition. This one is published as The Murder Stone. A Rule Against Murder is so much better. Anyways. This is the fourth in the Inspector Gamache series. I was excited to finally reach the point where I had heard the series really \"takes off\" in scope. Well, yeah. For one thing, this is not set in Three Pines, which is pretty good given the fact that a tiny village can only sustain so many murders before there is one lone suspect left standing. But this is certainly broadening in scope not only geographically but with its characters. A Rule Against Murder is set in a remote resort lodge, where the Gamaches have retreated for an anniversary getaway. Also staying at the resort is the dysfunctional Finney family. Otherwise, there is serenity, peace and quiet, wonderful food... BAM!! MURDER!!!! Louise Penny does it again. The how and who of this particular taking of life consumed my brain throughout most of the novel. I'm proud to say I kind of had the how of it halfway through. But who? Well, you could have drawn straws for this one. The starring aspect of this novel though is the interaction of this family. Dysfunctionality, whether this is in fact a word or not, is a fascinating tool for absorbing reading and this family is about as messed up a clan you'll get. Penny explores this through dialogue and personality quirks perfectly. If I had one issue with the novel it was the lengthy closure. It took a lot of pages for this to wrap up because there was a lot of backfill to supplement the solving of the case. For this reason only this gets a star knocked off what could have been a solid five-star read. I am very much looking forward to the next novel in this consistently excellent series. ...more \"We are all blessed and we're all blighted. Every day each of us does our sums. The question is, what do we count?\" The prime suspects in this murder mystery is the family of Morrows. After all, it is the sister Julia in a sibling quartet who has been murdered. The Morrows are affluent, most of them, and there is no doubt at all what their sums are. Rarely have I even in literature encountered such a spiteful bunch of people. Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife are on holiday in an isolated inn \"We are all blessed and we're all blighted. Every day each of us does our sums. The question is, what do we count?\" The prime suspects in this murder mystery is the family of Morrows. After all, it is the sister Julia in a sibling quartet who has been murdered. The Morrows are affluent, most of them, and there is no doubt at all what their sums are. Rarely have I even in literature encountered such a spiteful bunch of people. Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife are on holiday in an isolated inn when the murder happens. The means of murder is quite unusual.The statue of the family patriarch, Charles Morrow has been raised on a marble piedestal and although it weigh several tons, after a storm it is found toppled over Julia Morrow. The \"how\" of the murder doesn't become clear until the very end. This is clearly my favorite so far in the Inspector Gamache series. We're away of from the village of Three Pines, because honestly, how many murders can there be in a tiny village and still be believabe? Clara and Peter happen to be Morrows, so they also turn up at Manoir Bellechasse for the yearly family reunion. Peter turns out to carry a lot of dead weight around with him. I didn't much like him before either, but I was surprised how unpleasant he turned out to be. \"A Rule Against Murder\" is an enjoyable \"who dunnit\" with plenty of insight into human frailty - and hope. Highly recommendable. It helps to know the characters from before, but this would do well as a stand-alone too. ...more Published in the USA under the title \u201cA Rule against Murder\u201d This is an intricate mystery that gives us a new spin in the life and character of Inspector Gamache. Here we see a more personal side of him and his relationship with his wife Reine-Marie. This old fashion story opens at the Manoir Bellechase, an isolated lodge by Lake Massawippi where the Inspector and Reine-Marie have enjoyed celebrating their wedding anniversary in the past. This year, they find themselves sharing this luxurious inn Published in the USA under the title \u201cA Rule against Murder\u201d This is an intricate mystery that gives us a new spin in the life and character of Inspector Gamache. Here we see a more personal side of him and his relationship with his wife Reine-Marie. This old fashion story opens at the Manoir Bellechase, an isolated lodge by Lake Massawippi where the Inspector and Reine-Marie have enjoyed celebrating their wedding anniversary in the past. This year, they find themselves sharing this luxurious inn with a highly dysfunctional wealthy English family, who have come to pay tribute to their deceased father. Murder is suspected when a member of the family is found dead, a victim of unusual circumstances. Naturally, the charming Inspector Gamache gets involved, digging beneath the family bitterness to solve the devious crime. Ms Penny is meticulous in her description of this very unpleasant family, all have secrets to hide and the narrative superbly captures the resulting emotions and tension. Humour is successfully added to portray this greedy, selfish family. True to her tradition she also gives us what we come expect: the usual attention to the domestic details, such as menu and gardening and other day to day activities of the Inn. Although I enjoyed this novel, I admit it is not my favourite. I found it is slow in action, too centered on the family and a murder lacking plausibility. ...more Another hit from Louise Penny, she is so clever and masterful at spinning a great tale. I love how she layers her stories, close attention must be payed or the underlying wit may be missed. She has a wonderful knack of illustrating the perfect blend of seriousness and humor. This addition to the series starts with Inspector Gamache away on holiday with his lovely wife. Unfortunately it turns into a working one when there is an unexpected death of one of the guests. Accident or not? All the of the Another hit from Louise Penny, she is so clever and masterful at spinning a great tale. I love how she layers her stories, close attention must be payed or the underlying wit may be missed. She has a wonderful knack of illustrating the perfect blend of seriousness and humor. This addition to the series starts with Inspector Gamache away on holiday with his lovely wife. Unfortunately it turns into a working one when there is an unexpected death of one of the guests. Accident or not? All the of the guests staying at the resort, including the deceased party, have come for a family reunion. Unbeknownst to the Gamaches, some dear friends from, Three Pines, arrive and as it turns out have come for the reunion as well. They are happy to see them until chaos ensues, accusations fly, and pandemonium breaks out surrounding the suspicious death. The patients have escaped and are running the asylum, is all I could think when it came to this family. Inspector Gamache has his hands full, very full. A good mystery and, to me, this one was more Agatha Christy-esc than her prior books. Ralph Coshams narration is consistently A+ great. It always feels like coming home when I start a Gamache adventure. Onto the next. ...more", "Title": "A Rule Against Murder"},
