{"Comments": "Haddix, Margaret Peterson. 2008. The Missing Book 1: <+++>Found</+++>. I may be a bit biased--slightly--since I love, love, love <---A>Margaret Peterson Haddix</---A>. My expectations were high with this her first book in a new series.<---F> And I was NOT disappointed</---F>. I was WOWed. I'm not foolish enough to think that this one will WOW every single kid, teen, or adult out there. But for those that love science fiction and mysteries...this one is for you. Here's the opening of the prologue: \"It wasn't there. Then it was. Later, Haddix, Margaret Peterson. 2008. The Missing Book 1: <+++>Found</+++>. I may be a bit biased--slightly--since I love, love, love Margaret Peterson Haddix. My expectations were high with this her first book in a new series. And I was NOT disappointed. I was WOWed. I'm not foolish enough to think that this one will WOW every single kid, teen, or adult out there. But for those that love science fiction and mysteries...this one is for you. Here's the opening of the prologue: \"It wasn't there. Then it was. Later, that was how Angela DuPre would describe the airplane--over and over, to one investigator after another--until she was told never to speak of it again. But when she first saw the plane that night, she wasn't thinking about mysteries or secrets.\" What Angela DuPre witnessed on her first day of the job was indescribably unbelievable. Perplexing. A plane that appeared and disappeared on the runway. A plane that she found minus the pilot and flight attendants. A flight were all thirty-six passengers were babies. Sounds crazy, right? How could an unscheduled plane--a plane that did not show up on any of their radars--land on their runway to begin with? How could it have gotten there without a pilot on board? Why babies? But even more strange was the fact that once the babies were unloaded, and the proper authorities called...the plane vanished into thin air. Angela DuPre witnessed the unbelievable alright. But she wasn't crazy. The Found opens thirteen years later. Our hero is a boy named Jonah. He's got a best friend, Chip,<---M> and a slightly younger sister</---M>, Katherine. Our book opens with the arrival of several mystery letters. Two letters. Thirteen words. Lives are going to change. \"You are one of the missing.\" and \"Beware! They're coming back to get you.\" Found is a suspenseful, mysterious action-and-adventure novel that will thrill those that love science fiction. Of course I can't promise that it will \"thrill\" every reader. But I know it kept me reading. I couldn't put it down. And I was loving every minute of it. The pacing was just right. The characters were nicely developed--and are sure to improve upon with each novel that is published in the series. The only problem with the book is that it left me wanting more...wanting more now! I don't want to have to wait for the next novel to come out. I want to know what happens to Jonah and Katherine and Chip NOW! There's this intensity and immediacy that I just don't find in many other books. ...more I\u2019m a children\u2019s librarian so I get to see a lot of children\u2019s books pass through my hallowed public library doors. Lots. But a person can\u2019t see everything so once in a while I like to traipse down to my friendly neighborhood bookstore to see what\u2019s on the shelves. I skip into the children\u2019s section, peruse the titles there, skim one or two just to see if I\u2019d like to read them later, and that\u2019s it. End of story. Normally. This past week-end I skipped in as per usual and skimmed the titles of the I\u2019m a children\u2019s librarian so I get to see a lot of children\u2019s books pass through my hallowed public library doors. Lots. But a person can\u2019t see everything so once in a while I like to traipse down to my friendly neighborhood bookstore to see what\u2019s on the shelves. I skip into the children\u2019s section, peruse the titles there, skim one or two just to see if I\u2019d like to read them later, and that\u2019s it. End of story. Normally. This past week-end I skipped in as per usual and skimmed the titles of the new fall releases. A new P.E. Kerr... something by F.E. Higgins... and a new Margaret Peterson Haddix. Now there\u2019s a treat! I\u2019m not the biggest Haddix fan in the world but I\u2019m rather fond of her style. Kids love her Among the Hidden series and Running Out of Time was a fun concept (so much so that perhaps director M. Night Shymalan thought so too). But I\u2019ve never really fallen for a Haddix novel, you know? The writing just usually doesn\u2019t do it for me. Maybe it\u2019s the tone or the content or something, but I wasn\u2019t really digging the Haddix. Until now. You see, as I sat down in the bookstore\u2019s caf\u00e9 to read a chapter I found myself sucked into the story. Does it contain some lickety split action sequences and leaps that stretch at my adult credulity? Sure. But I also feel that this may be some of Haddix\u2019s best work. It doesn\u2019t necessarily stand on its own due to its cliffhanger ending, but if you want to hand a kid something fun, fast-paced, and deeply mysterious then this is the book to surrender. Thirteen years ago an airline attendant saw something impossible. When the plane appeared on the tarmac it somehow appeared without anyone realizing it had landed. Stranger still, it contained no pilot, no crew, no adults at all. Just thirty-six babies strapped in their seats. Fast forward to present day when new friends Jonah and Chip check the former\u2019s mailbox. There, resting inside is an unsigned note that simply reads, \u201cYou are one of the missing.\u201d A cruel prank? It certainly seems that way until Chip gets the same letter. Then they both get a follow-up that reads \u201cBeware! They\u2019re coming back to get you.\u201d They? They who? There doesn\u2019t seem to be much rhyme or reason to the notes until Chip discovers that he and Jonah have something in common. They were both adopted. And with the help of Jonah\u2019s sister Katherine there\u2019s more to discover. Why does an FBI agent have information about the boys\u2019 birth parents? Why did Katherine see a man appear and disappear in an office one day? Who\u2019s been sneaking around Jonah\u2019s room, looking through his things? And what\u2019s the real story behind that plane? The answers lead the kids to discover their connection to seemingly impossible events. I\u2019m a sucker for books that contain anonymous notes. Such letters appear in stories like The Mailbox by Audrey Shafer and you librarians out there will understand what I mean when I say that they make it easy to booktalk titles. I also love mysteries, frightening moments, and plucky protagonists. Actually that final item is a bit odd in this book. Though our hero in this story is clearly Jonah, the boy spends much of the novel with his fingers in his ears going \u201cLALALALALALALA!\u201d while his friend and sister do much of the investigating on his behalf. Credit where credit is due, though. The kids really do discover a ton of information, and in a way that makes sense to the plot and is plausible. Anytime a kid in a book breaks into a locked room with a hairpin my eyebrows make a break for my hairline and it takes a while to coax them down. No coaxing was required as I read Haddix\u2019s novel. My eyebrows remained firmly in place the entire time. Authors today face several conundrums when it comes to writing contemporary realistic (or realistic-ish) fiction. First of all, how are your child characters living in the suburbs getting around? It\u2019s not as if a lot of suburban kids take the bus, after all. Like most authors, Haddix goes for the old bike riding solution. The next problem? Cell phones. In the past your characters would find themselves in a perilous situation and be helpless and unable to alert anyone to their location. Cell phones, fortunately, can only work where there\u2019s a signal so chalk that up to another problem solved. It\u2019s easy to work around contemporary technology, but a good writer should make use of it. If a kid has a phone with camera capabilities, then that should come in handy. And Haddix definitely sees electronic devices as a way to aid and abet the action rather than hinder it. Other authors take note. Sure, technology changes but when it comes to something like cell phone cameras such devices will be around for a while. Might as well make your book believable by utilizing them. Okay. So here\u2019s my official SPOILER ALERT warning. If you would like to be surprised by the secret of this book, stop reading this review right now. I liked it. Nuff said. They gone? Great. As those of you who have read the book are aware, the secret behind this story is that the babies on the plane is that they\u2019re all famous children that died sometime in history. The Lindbergh baby. The kids that Richard III slaughtered. Princess Anastasia (and her little bro). People from the future pay big bucks to raise such kids, but we never really learn who Chip and Jonah are. We can probably rule out the children mentioned in the book, so who does that leave? My hope is that Jonah will turn out to be The Dauphin. That\u2019d be pretty cool, right? As for Chip, why not Henry VIII\u2019s kid, Edward VI? Both are famous in history. Both would yield fascinating speculations. That\u2019s just my two cents. Haddix is certainly not flying by the A Sound of Thunder rules of time travel here, by the way. People can apparently make fairly large changes to the past without worrying about how the ripple affect is going to damage the future. Apparently it isn\u2019t until you\u2019re plopping babies from the past into the twenty-first century that things start to get messed up. How nice that the universe is so flexible. It certainly should be a load off of time travelers\u2019 minds, that\u2019s for sure. I\u2019ve heard some people voice objections to the book in terms of the action sequences. Is it plausible that two kids would be able to make a last minute plan when they both bend down to tie a shoelace? Meh. And as for the fight scenes, maybe they aren\u2019t the greatest I\u2019ve ever encountered but they didn\u2019t sufficiently distract me from the rest of the book to keep me from enjoying it. Haddix isn\u2019t going to win any major literary awards with this novel, but she\u2019ll probably garner more than a few kids choice medals and ribbons. And quite frankly, that\u2019s the kind of stuff you need to keep in your library. Haddix is a crowd pleaser at heart along the lines of fellow three-namers Mary Downing Hahn or Willo Davis Roberts . But for what it\u2019s worth, I think she improves as she goes. Found is undoubtedly the book of hers that I\u2019ve enjoyed the most. Looking forward to the sequel. Ages 9-14. ...more \"Found\" is my first review on goodreads. Since a synopsis of the book is available, I'm not going to recap the plot, but simply give my thoughts. I am a fan of Margaret Haddix's work and have read \"Running Out of Time\" and the Shadow Children series among others which are in the same genre as \"Found.\" However, Haddix's writing spans a range of genres and I recently read \"Uprising,\" which is historical fiction, and it was excellent. I am also a big fan of fantasy/scifi and reading the first book \"Found\" is my first review on goodreads. Since a synopsis of the book is available, I'm not going to recap the plot, but simply give my thoughts. I am a fan of Margaret Haddix's work and have read \"Running Out of Time\" and the Shadow Children series among others which are in the same genre as \"Found.\" However, Haddix's writing spans a range of genres and I recently read \"Uprising,\" which is historical fiction, and it was excellent. I am also a big fan of fantasy/scifi and reading the first book in a new series is always exciting. I get that feeling of starting a new adventure that you really hope is exciting. In the case of \"Found,\" I was not disappointed. Time travel is certainly common in children's books but Haddix puts a fresh twist on it by including time thieves who recklessly steal babies for profit regardless of the consequences to the future and time police who are out to stop the thieves even if it means that the stolen children must go back in time, leave their families, and even die. The children are caught in the middle. Though the idea for the book is exciting, the plot occasionally bogged down, the characters were frustrating at times and two dimensional for the most part, and, having a teenager myself, I often questioned the authenticity of the thoughts and dialogue of the main characters. It also seems clear as to the direction of the series. With that said however, I'll definitely read the second book to find out what happens based on the decision Jonah made at the end of the book. ...more Per the summary: When thirteen-year-old friends Jonah and Chip, who re both adopted, find out that they were discovered on a plane that appeared out of nowhere, full of babies, with no adults on board, they realize that they have uncovered a mystery involving time travel and two opposing forces, each trying to capture them. The first two-thirds of the book were okay - a little dragged out and sometimes frustrating - but the last third of the book, which reveals the time travelers and their intent Per the summary: When thirteen-year-old friends Jonah and Chip, who re both adopted, find out that they were discovered on a plane that appeared out of nowhere, full of babies, with no adults on board, they realize that they have uncovered a mystery involving time travel and two opposing forces, each trying to capture them. The first two-thirds of the book were okay - a little dragged out and sometimes frustrating - but the last third of the book, which reveals the time travelers and their intentions, was very disappointing. The science doesn't make sense and at several points the author seems to forget that a large group is present - only the main characters do anything. This is the first book in the series. I'm not sure I'll pick up the next one. ...more I first picked this book thinking, Well I've read a lot, so why not start a new series? I wasn't expecting much, but I was wrong. The plot. So It was running fine but then it took a surprising twist in the middle that just keeps you hooked. I couldn't put it down without thinking, what now? Jonah. He reminds me of, well, me. Super cautious and wanting to live life the same way. Yet he's good at figuring things out. The ending. All I can say is wow. The whole cave thing amazed me. I kept thinking, w I first picked this book thinking, Well I've read a lot, so why not start a new series? I wasn't expecting much, but I was wrong. The plot. So It was running fine but then it took a surprising twist in the middle that just keeps you hooked. I couldn't put it down without thinking, what now? Jonah. He reminds me of, well, me. Super cautious and wanting to live life the same way. Yet he's good at figuring things out. The ending. All I can say is wow. The whole cave thing amazed me. I kept thinking, what are you doing Jonah?!? And when they teleported to the 15th century, I was speechless. Jonah and Kathrine going with Chip really proved their friendship. Now I wonder, what would have happened if they were to late to grab Chip's arm? Who is Jonah. What happens now? ...more Both of my girls are adoped and so I had a connection to this story that was unexpected. Imagine having your adopted child receive a letter that tells them \"You are one of the missing\" That would freak me out! Well, that is what actually happens in this book. I really enjoyed this book. It was an action packed book. This is the first book in the Missing series. I've heard really, really good things about this book, and they're all true. I almost read it in one sitting, not bad for a 300 page book. A plane mysteriously appears at an airport, carrying only 36 babies. No pilot, no crew, no adults at all. As soon as the babies are unloaded, the plane vanishes again. Thirteen years later, Jonah (adopted) and his new friend Chris (also adopted, though he doesn't know it at the beginning of the story) start gettin This is the first book in the Missing series. I've heard really, really good things about this book, and they're all true. I almost read it in one sitting, not bad for a 300 page book. A plane mysteriously appears at an airport, carrying only 36 babies. No pilot, no crew, no adults at all. As soon as the babies are unloaded, the plane vanishes again. Thirteen years later, Jonah (adopted) and his new friend Chris (also adopted, though he doesn't know it at the beginning of the story) start getting strange (identical) messages, and begin researching their adoptions to find some strange things. The mystery of who they really are and where they really came from is (mostly) solved by the end of the book, but there's still a lot left to cover. I'll be reading the rest of this series. ...more Extremely quick-moving read, and really enjoyable. This is the first book of hers I've read (I need to read \"Among the Hidden,\" obviously). A plane appears out of nowhere, full of crying babies... and no one else. No pilots, flight attendants, parents... nobody. What a premise! Then, we fast-forward 13 years and meet Jonah, who keeps getting cryptic letters with no return address. The letters are related to the fact that Jonah is adopted, which is related to that weird airplane from the beginnin Extremely quick-moving read, and really enjoyable. This is the first book of hers I've read (I need to read \"Among the Hidden,\" obviously). A plane appears out of nowhere, full of crying babies... and no one else. No pilots, flight attendants, parents... nobody. What a premise! Then, we fast-forward 13 years and meet Jonah, who keeps getting cryptic letters with no return address. The letters are related to the fact that Jonah is adopted, which is related to that weird airplane from the beginning of the book. I'll look forward to book 2! ...more I was plopped between two 5th graders in the fiction section of S's and W's with my legs crossed booktalking like an auctioneer. Sigh. Joy. My favorite part of my job. These two youngsters were not put-off by my rapid-fire read-this-read-that spiel. I have to tone it down for most as their eyes cross or their whites show. But not these two. They inhaled the book information interrupting me to chuck in their own opinions. So imagine my double joy when one jumps up and says \"just a minute,\" and ru I was plopped between two 5th graders in the fiction section of S's and W's with my legs crossed booktalking like an auctioneer. Sigh. Joy. My favorite part of my job. These two youngsters were not put-off by my rapid-fire read-this-read-that spiel. I have to tone it down for most as their eyes cross or their whites show. But not these two. They inhaled the book information interrupting me to chuck in their own opinions. So imagine my double joy when one jumps up and says \"just a minute,\" and runs to another section to return with a book she thrusts in my hands and says, \"you've gotta read this one.\" Found is about Jonah, an adopted boy, whose new friend, Chip discovers he's adopted as well. The two begin getting scary letters in the mail about people coming to get them and being \"missing.\" Katherine, Jonah's sister plunges into the mystery headfirst trying to find answers along with Chip as to the background behind their adoptions. Jonah becomes more reluctant as the answers unfold and he isn't so sure he wants to find out the mysteriousness of his adoption. The story unfolds to an exciting climax that will make you want to read book 2. Students like this series that sweeps readers along with gobs of action and creepiness. The writing descriptions are not gorgeous nor is the dialogue witty but it is a quick fun read. I do think Katherine upstages Jonah as the main character. She's such a spunky, gutsy gal with a quick brain and eye for details. She's just a plain 'ole fun character. Jonah sticks his head in the sand until the very end where he is forced to either show some leadership skills or fade into the rocks. Not all the questions are answered in this book. We don't know who Jonah is historically and he isn't really described so the reader can't take a stab at guessing. Well, you can take a stab at it but chances are you'll be wrong. We also don't know what happened to Daniella. It isn't clear Katherine's role in the series either but I think she's an interesting character that has to be in the next book based on how Found ends. A good series for your library. Reading Level 5.0 ...more It's very hard to summarize this book without giving anything away. Let's see.... <---C>Jonah Skidmore</---C> was adopted when he was three months old. Just before his thirteenth birthday, he receives a cryptic message in the mail and he starts questioning the little that he knows about his past. Very, very bare bones there. After getting hooked by the fantastic prologue, I had a little bit of an idea as to where this might be going. I was right to an extent, but mostly I was hugely surprised by the time the It's very hard to summarize this book without giving anything away. Let's see.... Jonah Skidmore was adopted when he was three months old. Just before his thirteenth birthday, he receives a cryptic message in the mail and he starts questioning the little that he knows about his past. Very, very bare bones there. After getting hooked by the fantastic prologue, I had a little bit of an idea as to where this might be going. I was right to an extent, but mostly I was hugely surprised by the time the ending rolled around. I woke up, started this as I ate breakfast, kept reading, and finished it in about three hours. Sure, it's an older kids' book and I'm a pretty fast reader, but I could not put this down. The action and discoveries didn't stop and I just kept frantically turning pages to find out more. Jonah is an engaging character. Not too good, not too bad--just your average seventh-grader. His actions, reactions, and interactions all felt real to me. Even his sister Katherine and his friend Chip are believable and well fleshed-out. I will say that the Skidmore parents felt a little too perfect. Really, there are only two things keeping this from being a five-star book for me. One, it's science fiction and I'm not really a fan of the genre. Two, by the time I got to the ending, I felt like this was mostly set up for the following book(s). There's nothing wrong with that, and there's nothing really wrong with this book, but I feel like there's room for the sequel to be even better and I just want to leave some wiggle room in my ratings. If I were the author, I would feel cheated, but there you go. Four stars. Highly recommended as a surprising page-turner for young teenagers and even those older folks who don't allow the age of a protagonist to keep them from enjoying a great story. ...more Magaret Peterson Haddix has always been an enjoyable author for me. Her books have that edge of realism that makes them so believable, and she has that way of slipping in a thought provoking message about society without being pushy. That's why it's hard for me to believe Found is a Haddix book. It feels so lacking when compared to her other novels. Why is it the character feel so wooden in this novel? It's not like they don't have personality. It's just that they are never more than you expect t Magaret Peterson Haddix has always been an enjoyable author for me. Her books have that edge of realism that makes them so believable, and she has that way of slipping in a thought provoking message about society without being pushy. That's why it's hard for me to believe Found is a Haddix book. It feels so lacking when compared to her other novels. Why is it the character feel so wooden in this novel? It's not like they don't have personality. It's just that they are never more than you expect them to be. Jonah is always skeptical, Katherine is always sassy,Chip refrains from ever being more than the semiuseless goofball. And it's not that they're complete stereotypes, it's that they are static. I felt no growth from the characters. They behaved exactly like a a bunch of 12/13 year olds would. I kept hoping to get past that outer shell and see some real development, but Haddix seemed content keeping them as shallow cut-outs, mere vessels for the plot. And there lies my biggest gripe with the novel: the plot. It wasn't boring. It had a few plot twists, and I was interested all the way through to the very end. The end also sets itself up for a sequel very well, making you wonder what will happen. But there's no message there. This book was a thrill-ride, and I enjoyed it, but if I ever read the sequel, I'll probably have to reread this book first, because it was so ultimately forgettable. Maybe Haddix will slip in her usual messages about the dangers of playing god or the power goverment has over our lives in the later volumes, but this one didn't have any philosophical undertones. Like the charaters, it never tried to be more than what it was: a summer beach book. Found isn't a bad book; I was simply hoping for more from Ms. Haddix. ...more My sister sent me a copy because she LOVED it. So I read it today and I quite liked it. As a mother of an adopted son I must say this book made me a tad uncomfortable - what if someone tried to take him back? NNNOOOOOOO!!! But it was interesting to read the characters' emotions as they discussed adoption, learned they were adopted or were the sibling of an adopted child. I think the characters were very well done and the emotions and thoughts were true to life. This book is a bit science fictiony. My sister sent me a copy because she LOVED it. So I read it today and I quite liked it. As a mother of an adopted son I must say this book made me a tad uncomfortable - what if someone tried to take him back? NNNOOOOOOO!!! But it was interesting to read the characters' emotions as they discussed adoption, learned they were adopted or were the sibling of an adopted child. I think the characters were very well done and the emotions and thoughts were true to life. This book is a bit science fictiony. You won't like it if you don't like sci fi. The first part of the book was a little slow. The last part was a little too fast. But overall I enjoyed it and would read the second book. I do hate though when a book just ends totally abruptly and right on the edge of a major discovery. I HATE waiting for the next book. I typically like to read a series after it's all written so I don't have to wait. Except for HP, and Leven Thumps, and Fablehaven, and Artemis Fowl....oh, I need to shut up. It's geared towards 4th graders on up but I disagree with that most heartily. I don't think this book appropriate until 7th grade or higher. For one, I think younger kids would be bored with the slow start (a lot of it is about feelings) and second, I think it's just subject matter that's a little more grown-up. At first I really liked Jonah's family's relationship but after a while he started getting snippy and rude to his parents. He's never really bad, but it still grated a bit. His friend Chip is from a pretty disfunctional family which could be a good discussion topic. A good, fast, fun read. ...more Jonah is adopted. Which aside from his parents annoying repetition of their \u201cout-of-the-blue\u201d adoption story, isn\u2019t that dominant a facet of his life. At least not compared to shooting hoops with his friend, Chip, and trying to be cool enough for seventh grade. And shunning his slightly younger sister, Katherine. But then the letter arrives. \u201cYou are one of the missing.\u201d And the other letter. \u201cBeware! They are coming back for you.\u201d Followed by the secret lists, intruders, and the phone number from Jonah is adopted. Which aside from his parents annoying repetition of their \u201cout-of-the-blue\u201d adoption story, isn\u2019t that dominant a facet of his life. At least not compared to shooting hoops with his friend, Chip, and trying to be cool enough for seventh grade. And shunning his slightly younger sister, Katherine. But then the letter arrives. \u201cYou are one of the missing.\u201d And the other letter. \u201cBeware! They are coming back for you.\u201d Followed by the secret lists, intruders, and the phone number from the FBI. Which all lead back to the plane that disappeared. And suddenly being \u201cadopted\u201d has an entirely different meaning. Sigh. Yet another series I am going to have to shoot right to the top of my priority list. And I already had so many! ...more I really, really liked this book. The prologue (even though I normally am not a fan of them) was an amazing start to the book that kept me reading to find out what in the world was going to happen next. I have a lot of students who are huge fans of Margaret Peterson Haddix from reading the Among the Hidden series who will love this book/series. The only (weak) reason why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because I am not completely sure if I'll be picking up the next book any time soon. It's not t I really, really liked this book. The prologue (even though I normally am not a fan of them) was an amazing start to the book that kept me reading to find out what in the world was going to happen next. I have a lot of students who are huge fans of Margaret Peterson Haddix from reading the Among the Hidden series who will love this book/series. The only (weak) reason why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because I am not completely sure if I'll be picking up the next book any time soon. It's not that it doesn't seem interesting, it's just that I have so many books to read and I don't know if I have the time to stick with another series like this. The book was great though. ...more This is an amazing children's series! The mystery is so good, it have many of the teachers at my school hooked on these books. Hey, when a storyline is good and well executed, it doesn't matter how old you are. A good book is a good book! Looking forward to checking out the other installments :) Super book- some slow parts in the middle. I remember first reading this book in Middle school. My Social Studies teacher in seventh grade had this book on her back bookshelf, and whenever I would finish an assignment early I would slip over and crack open to the page where I had last left off, reading perhaps a chapter every couple weeks. Sometimes, reading this book would be the highlight of my week. I never got to finish this book, and for some reason I forgot all about it until a couple of weeks ago when I saw it in the library and kn I remember first reading this book in Middle school. My Social Studies teacher in seventh grade had this book on her back bookshelf, and whenever I would finish an assignment early I would slip over and crack open to the page where I had last left off, reading perhaps a chapter every couple weeks. Sometimes, reading this book would be the highlight of my week. I never got to finish this book, and for some reason I forgot all about it until a couple of weeks ago when I saw it in the library and knew I had to pick it up! This is such an intriguing and mysterious book. It starts off when a plane suddenly arrives out of nowhere, without any warning. This plane has no pilot, no co-pilot... and no adults. The entire plane is filled with babies. That's where it starts off, and honestly I don't think you need to know much more than that. The friendships in this book were very interesting and some of the stuff made me question who the good guy really is. I loved the characters and hope to learn more about them in the future installments of this series, which I will definitely be reading! (Of course, the library has Books #1, #3 & #4, but no Book #2... go figure). I feel like I would have rated this a 5 stars last year when my rating system was a bit more lenient, or if I had reviewed this right after I finished it (I actually finished it a week or two ago but I've been a bit busy with school) or if I hadn't seen so many negative reviews stating how bored people were... let me tell you that for me, this book was anything but boring. It had so many twists and turns and kept me on the edge of my seat! Can't wait to read Book #2! ...more The only reason why i didn't give it five stars was because, since its part of a series, the story is not yet complete. I loved it though! thanks for the recommendation Michelle! ***spoiler alert*** Do you like books that keep you turning the page? If you do this is the book for you because at the end of every chapter you would want to read the next.The genre of this book is scientific fiction.In my opinion this one of the best books in the world and it is even better because this book is the first book in a series called \"The Missing Books\". The setting for the book \"Found\" is in a normal neighborhood that starts to get creepy because Jonah starts to get creepy letters ***spoiler alert*** Do you like books that keep you turning the page? If you do this is the book for you because at the end of every chapter you would want to read the next.The genre of this book is scientific fiction.In my opinion this one of the best books in the world and it is even better because this book is the first book in a series called \"The Missing Books\". The setting for the book \"Found\" is in a normal neighborhood that starts to get creepy because Jonah starts to get creepy letters from an unknown person in the 21st century. Jonah wanted to just be an ordinary kid who was adopted but he starts getting these weird letters from an unknown person that says \"you are one of the missing\".So, later on he finds out that his best friend Chip is also adopted so they both try to find our where they came and why they got those weird letters.Also they go to the library to meet the flight attendant that was on the plane to see what was this whole mystery was about. Then they find out that they were one of the babies that they were on a plane full of babies at the beginning of the story. Later on they find out that two people want to capture them and take them somewhere. At the end of the book Jonah and Chip have to make a choice to go to the future or go to the past because they did not come from the 21st century. I liked the way the author always keeps you turning the page because she knows how to always make the book interesting in every chapter. In every chapter such as Chapter 9 when Jonah and Chip get another weird letter that says \"Beware, there coming back to get you\" is one of the chapters that makes you want to read the other chapter. This book makes you want to read more because in the book the chapters always end in suspicion. \"Found\" is a good title for the book because Jonah and Chip were found by a unknown person and they need to go back where they came from. Jonah and Chip were found by the people who had took them into the 21st century. These people wanted to take them to the future to finish their mission. According to the text these people had accidentally put them in the 21st century and it took them 13 years to finally find them and take them to the future. I understood why Jonah and Chip didn't want to go to the future or the past because they wouldn't remember anything that happened to them. When Chip and Jonah and the other babies that were on the plane were stuck in a cave they all had to make a decision to go to the future or the past. Since the 21st century kids are kind of spoiled they didn't want to go to the past or the future to save time.A theme of this book is choices and possibilities because Jonah has to make a choice to go to the future or the past. I chose this theme because Jonah and Chip have to make a choice and think of the possibilities to go to the future or the past. If they go to the future they would forget everything and may be treated wrong. If they go to the past they would also forget everything and there might be a Bubonic Plague or a war that can kill them. I give this book 5 stars because the book never gets boring and it is always interesting. I would recommend this book to anyone who like mystery books that keeps you turning the page. So for anybody who doesn't like reading books try this one because it is very interesting in every chapter in the story. ...more Thirteen years ago there was an undefined airplane that had landed at Sky Trails Airport. When the plane was boarded the plane was full of babies, but when the people had taken all of the babies off of the plane, it vanished. Now it has been thirteen years and Jonah and Chip know they are adopted. They set out to search for the other 34 babies, with some help from Jonah's sister Katherine. After a while of searching for these kids that are now in there teens they meet a woman named Angela Dupre Thirteen years ago there was an undefined airplane that had landed at Sky Trails Airport. When the plane was boarded the plane was full of babies, but when the people had taken all of the babies off of the plane, it vanished. Now it has been thirteen years and Jonah and Chip know they are adopted. They set out to search for the other 34 babies, with some help from Jonah's sister Katherine. After a while of searching for these kids that are now in there teens they meet a woman named Angela Dupree. This was the woman who worked at Sky Trails at the time of the incident. She tells Jonah, Katherine, and Chip all about what happened that day at Sky Trails Airport. Angela Dupree leads them into a huge mess with all of the babies and the children have to choose there destiny by going in the past or future. These kids ran into very many problems that they never knew the anser to, so they went with what their hearts told them to do. My favorite character of this book is definitely Jonah because he is always trying to make thing right and he also never gives up no matter how hard the task or decision is that he has to make. The one character I could relate to in this book is Jonah. The reason I can relate to this person is because he is very kind hearted and wants the best for all people. Also Jonah is always taking charge when one of his friends doesn't want to do something, and let me tell you I have to do that a lot. Some of the feelings that I can share with some of the characters in this book is that I feel sad or scared when I did something that I knew I shouldn't have done. There are may ways to relate to this book because it seems so realistic and that is what allows me to express my feelings about this book. This was a really thrilling book and I would definitely read this again if I could. My favorite part of this book is when Jonah,Chip,and Katherine are learning about the children that were on the plane,and how they learn that all of the kids that were on the plane thirteen years ago all live in the same state. My least favorite part of the book is when Jonah,Chip, and Katherine all go to the meeting of all the adopted children that were on the plane thirteen years ago. The one thing I would change about this book is that I would make it so Katherine never went to the meeting of the adopted children, the reason I say this is because she lies and says she is one of the adopted. I would recommend this book to another person because it is full of action and it is an amazing book. Every time you stop reading this book you feel like you are hanging from the edge of the cliff because you want to know what is going to happen next. Honestly I think anyone who likes to read would like this book because it's just an all around book that keeps you reading at all times. Overall this was a fantastic book that I really enjoyed and I hope whoever decides to read it likes it too. ...more This book entertained and disappointed me in equal measures. Disappointed because it felt like half a book, half a story, instead of something whole and substantial. The ending is a colossal cliffhanger, and it felt like somewhat of a deliberate marketing strategy to draw out the series and sell more copies. That aside, this is a pretty entertaining book - though it's wrongly categorized as YA; i'd say this is more middle grade, given the age of the characters and the style of the writing. This This book entertained and disappointed me in equal measures. Disappointed because it felt like half a book, half a story, instead of something whole and substantial. The ending is a colossal cliffhanger, and it felt like somewhat of a deliberate marketing strategy to draw out the series and sell more copies. That aside, this is a pretty entertaining book - though it's wrongly categorized as YA; i'd say this is more middle grade, given the age of the characters and the style of the writing. This is the first Margaret Peterson Haddix book I've read, but it definitely will not be the last. Her writing style is tight and simple, giving the book a relentless pace, despite the fact that the plot isn't up to much. The characters are well developed, even if most of the time all the protagonist does is ask questions. The weakest part of this book is the the plot, it felt too quick and simple - there wasn't really enough substance to make this book feel anything more than a stepping stone for the rest of the series. The twist was pretty cool, and not at all what i was expecting, so Haddix gets credit for that. The idea behind everything is crazy, but intriguing - and slightly confusing, i'll admit. Overall, this is an exciting, addictive first entry, but could have done with a more substantial plot to make it feel more than just an introduction to the series. Highly recommended if you like time-travel and great twists. ...more This is book one in a new series by Haddix titled \"The Missing\". She's written several other children's books, including the Shadow Children series. This is the first book of her's I myself have read--and I am SERIOUSLY hooked. Written at what I would consider a middle school level, it still deals with some heady things and captured my attention throughly. It's an interesting premise--13 years ago an unregistered airplane suddenly appears at an airport terminal. When it's boarded, it's discovere This is book one in a new series by Haddix titled \"The Missing\". She's written several other children's books, including the Shadow Children series. This is the first book of her's I myself have read--and I am SERIOUSLY hooked. Written at what I would consider a middle school level, it still deals with some heady things and captured my attention throughly. It's an interesting premise--13 years ago an unregistered airplane suddenly appears at an airport terminal. When it's boarded, it's discovered that it is full of 36 unidentified babies--and no one else. The FBI takes \"control\" of the situation. Flash forward 13 years to meet Jonah, who is adopted, his 12 year old sister Katherine who is not, and their new neighbor Chip, also 13. Typical teenagers really--until Jonah and Chip start getting ominous and anonymous letters in the mail, leading Chip to discover that he, too, is adopted. People and notes begin to appear from nowhere--and disappear in a flash--even in the FBI offices. Slowly the three teens get a grasp of a much bigger, much more terrifying picture. Kidnaping, time travel, government coverups and control...it's all in here. And the ending....well, the ending is going to leave readers dying for the next book to come out. I highly recommend this book to all mystery readers regardless of their age. I think sci-fi readers will like this one too. ...more The Good: Found sort of blew me away, with its amazing premise and promise of even more in the rest of the series. The way things all came together was pure magic. It's not very often when I find myself absolutely shocked - mouth hanging open and eyes wide - at a reveal. This is one of those books that as soon as you finish it you want to go back and reread the buildup again to fully appreciate everything that brought you to this point. The Bad: Almost the entirety of the book was buildup to the The Good: Found sort of blew me away, with its amazing premise and promise of even more in the rest of the series. The way things all came together was pure magic. It's not very often when I find myself absolutely shocked - mouth hanging open and eyes wide - at a reveal. This is one of those books that as soon as you finish it you want to go back and reread the buildup again to fully appreciate everything that brought you to this point. The Bad: Almost the entirety of the book was buildup to the big reveal. While worth it in the end, it would have been very easy to give up on the book a long the way. The events leading up to the end were fantastical and it got to the point where I firmly believed there was no way they could add up to anything coherent in the end. Of course, I was proven wrong, but it's a minor miracle I read long enough to learn that for myself and I fear most readers won't make it until the payoff. ...more \"Found\" by Margaret Peterson Haddix was an amazing novel filled with suspense, adventure, and questions. Like her previous novel \"Among the Hidden,\" this book tackles the subject of mysterious children. Jonah is a teenager coming to terms with being adopted until he receives strange letters that make him question everything. This leads to an all-out hunt for answers and clues to his \"real life.\" With the help of his sister and friend, he finds answers that are difficult with which to deal. The c \"Found\" by Margaret Peterson Haddix was an amazing novel filled with suspense, adventure, and questions. Like her previous novel \"Among the Hidden,\" this book tackles the subject of mysterious children. Jonah is a teenager coming to terms with being adopted until he receives strange letters that make him question everything. This leads to an all-out hunt for answers and clues to his \"real life.\" With the help of his sister and friend, he finds answers that are difficult with which to deal. The characterization and plot are beautifully stitched together. While the story ends as a cliffhanger to lead into the next book in the series, it also stands on its own very well. I would recommend this book to someone in search of a quick read with intrigue and adventure. If you like to question the world around you and believe in conspiracy theories, you might enjoy this fine novel. ...more I gave this book a rating of four stars because I thought it was a very good book and had lots of suspense. I would recomend this book to others. This is because the book was fun and to read but is hard to understand at some spots so the book isnt to easy to read. The book starts with a kid named Johana who is adopted and he has a sister named katherine. Johana met a kid that had just moved to the area. The kids name was chip. They end up on a adventure almost to find out where they come from. T I gave this book a rating of four stars because I thought it was a very good book and had lots of suspense. I would recomend this book to others. This is because the book was fun and to read but is hard to understand at some spots so the book isnt to easy to read. The book starts with a kid named Johana who is adopted and he has a sister named katherine. Johana met a kid that had just moved to the area. The kids name was chip. They end up on a adventure almost to find out where they come from. They end up meeting time travelers from the future. The book ends with Johana, Katherine, and Chip all going to the 15th century. ...more I haven't gotten to the book in the last three weeks but, I am currently towards the end of the book. It is interesting to me but I do not know if it will be interesting to anyone else unless they like mystery and action. Jonah is one if 'The Lost' he meets others and is currently trying to find more of the lost to try and figrt back the government. I will rate this book at 5 because I like it very much. I was kind of disappointed in this book. I couldn't put it down at first, but it degenerated into a very difficult-to-believe book that seemingly is the first in a \"Magic Treehouse for big kids\" series. I loved this book, it is one of my favorite books I've ever read. It's really funny and mysterious. : ) My book for Unit 3 was The Missing Series: Found book #1 by Margaret Peterson Haddix. A girl named Angela was working at a airport and a strange airplane dot (I don\u2019t know what it\u2019s called) and her boss was getting scared and told her to check it out. If I was in this situation I would be kinda scared, but also brave. When she got to the weird plane she saw a babies in each seat. Jonah Skidmore was one of them, but he just doesn\u2019t know that yet until a letter comes to his house that says \u201cYOU AR My book for Unit 3 was The Missing Series: Found book #1 by Margaret Peterson Haddix. A girl named Angela was working at a airport and a strange airplane dot (I don\u2019t know what it\u2019s called) and her boss was getting scared and told her to check it out. If I was in this situation I would be kinda scared, but also brave. When she got to the weird plane she saw a babies in each seat. Jonah Skidmore was one of them, but he just doesn\u2019t know that yet until a letter comes to his house that says \u201cYOU ARE ONE OF THE MISSING\u201d Jonah\u2019s friend Chip thought it wasn\u2019t a joke, but Jonah did. Later, Chip got the same letter as Jonah and they both thought something was up. The next day another letter came to both of them and it said \u201cTrust No One\u201d. When Jonah read this it got to him and he thought he couldn\u2019t trust his sister Katherine until a guy came and took him,his sister, and Chip. The guy\u2019s name was JB and he took them to a futuristic place with a bunch of other kids. JB and two other guys were there and they said \u201cYou guys are here because we messed up on history and need to fix it because you guys are one of the MISSING. I think this book was really great and I will recommend it to people who like to read history books, sci-fi books, and fiction books. I chose this book because it has suspense and a little scary stuff in it like in the prologue of the book. For example, \u201cThe lights were flickering on and off and Angela saw a shadow in the back room.\u201d That\u2019s what I think horror is for this book. ...more Personal Response Found by Margaret Peterson Haddix is a decent book with an interesting story line. I believe that the characters develop pretty quickly, but it is still efficient in the way she writes. The book leaves on a huge cliffhanger into the next book. Plot In the beginning of the book, Angela is going through her first day of work at an airline. It is a pretty slow day and nothing is out of the ordinary, until an unidentified plane shows up at a closed hangar door without any kind of iden Personal Response Found by Margaret Peterson Haddix is a decent book with an interesting story line. I believe that the characters develop pretty quickly, but it is still efficient in the way she writes. The book leaves on a huge cliffhanger into the next book. Plot In the beginning of the book, Angela is going through her first day of work at an airline. It is a pretty slow day and nothing is out of the ordinary, until an unidentified plane shows up at a closed hangar door without any kind of identification on it. Nobody comes off of the plane, and there is no pilot . Angela finds 36 babies on board without anybody else. The FBI shows up and takes care of the scene. Thirteen years later, Jonah and Chip are casually playing basketball in the driveway. Jonah\u2019s little sister, Katherine, comes out to get the mail for her mother, and in the mailbox is an unmarked letter addressed to Jonah. The letter says \u201cYou are one of the missing.\u201d Jonah thinks right away about his being adopted, and other kids from school picking on him for it. Katherine thinks it is something more, but Jonah wants to leave it alone. He decides not to tell his parents about it. Then Jonah\u2019s mother calls him and Katherine in for dinner. Chip ends up getting the same letter and his parents finally tell him that he is adopted. Since his parents kept his adoption from him, Chip stays in an unpleasant mood, whether it be anger or sadness. Jonah tries to comfort him with the things his parents used to tell him when he had questions about being adopted, but it doesn\u2019t really help. Chip wants to know about his adoption records, so the boys break into Chip\u2019s family safe to find the documents. While they are searching, they find a post-it note with the name James Reardon on it and a phone number. Naturally, the boys call the number, and it turns out to be an FBI agent. Jonah hangs the phone up right away and tells Chip that he doesn\u2019t want to be involved anymore. A few days later, Jonah\u2019s mother tells him that if he wants to know more, someone is willing to meet him. Jonah decides to go, and while he is there, a strange man finds him when he goes into the bathroom. This man tells him to look at a file. Jonah doesn\u2019t know what to do, so when he goes back into the office, he tells his sister to look at the files while he distracts everyone else. Katherine gets the good idea to take pictures of the files. Afterward, Jonah and the family talk to the agent and he doesn\u2019t tell him anything. When Jonah and Katherine get home, they head over to Chip\u2019s house to talk about the visit. Chip has a computer, so they download the pictures from Katherine\u2019s phone to Chip\u2019s computer and all they find is names, addresses, and phone numbers. At the top of the page though is the word \u201cSurvivors.\u201d There is a second page on names and numbers with the heading \u201cWitnesses.\u201d Since they don\u2019t know what else to do, the trio starts calling the numbers on the page and find out that every person on the front page had been adopted. They find this weird, so they start asking the people if they also got letters in the mail like Chip and Jonah had, and not surprisingly, they had. After a while, an invite came in the mail for an adopted children's conference. The family and Chip decide to attend to see if some of the other children would be there, and everyone on the list showed up, along with other families and adopted children. All of the children split up into two groups, and it turns out that everybody on the list that Katherine took pictures of is in the same group as them. Jonah, Chip, and Katherine know that something is wrong, and try to warn everyone else, but nobody listens. Their group ends up going on a hike through the woods to a special cave. While inside the cave, the leaders of the group end up shutting all entrances and telling the kids that they will be going to the future. Out of nowhere, the strange man from the FBI office busts in and takes the leaders down momentarily. Jonah tries to help, but wants to know what is going on, so he doesn\u2019t know who to help. The kids end up finding out that they are all children from history that were being brought to the future for rich people to adopt and brag about. Towards the end, Jonah, Chip, and one of the children from the group are sent to the fifteenth century. They must find a way back to the 21st century so they can see their families again and to help all of the other children. Characterization Jonah is the main character in the story. He is the driving force behind finding the truth and keeping everything in order. He is thirteen years old and is best friends with Chip. He is an adopted child, and is okay with it because his parents have treated him like they are one of their own. He has brown hair and blue eyes. Jonah is a fairly smart kid and pretty athletic too. Chip is Jonah\u2019s best friend. He is kind of like Jonah\u2019s sidekick. Chip is also thirteen years old. When Chip was adopted, his parents decided not to tell him. This causes him to be more emotional when talking about adoption compared to Jonah, who is okay with his adoption. He has red hair and a lot of freckles. Chip is also pretty smart, but not as athletic. Katherine is Jonah\u2019s little sister. She is one year younger than him. Katherine is very smart, but doesn\u2019t have street-smarts like Jonah and Chip do. She has long brown hair and Chip thinks she is very pretty. Setting Found is set in modern day United States. This is important to the story because all of the children are from different periods of time and different areas of the world. Theme The theme of this story is that if you pursue something, it could potentially hurt and help you at the same time. In this story, Jonah and Chip want to find out where they come from, but because of their meddling, they end up separated from their families. On the other hand, if they hadn\u2019t looked into their origins, they would have never figured out who they actually are. Recommendation I think the age group for this story would be any boy or girl in high school because it has some terms about physics that younger people might not understand. ...more", "Title": "Found"},
