{"Comments": "In book 8, Dr. <---C>Temperance Brennan</---C> finds herself traveling from Montreal to Israel to track down a killer and the mystery behind ancient skeletal remains that could turn the lives of the religious faithful upside down. I'm going to put aside the fact that there's a lot of Dan Brown comparisons in the book. However, it didn't take away any enjoyment I had in seeing our main protagonist return to her roots in archeology. Also, the story takes place in one of my favorite countries,<---M> Israel(spent three In book 8</---M>, Dr. Temperance Brennan finds herself traveling from Montreal to Israel to track down a killer and the mystery behind ancient skeletal remains that could turn the lives of the religious faithful upside down. I'm going to put aside the fact that there's a lot of Dan Brown comparisons in the book. However, it didn't take away any enjoyment I had in seeing our main protagonist return to her roots in archeology. Also, the story takes place in one of my favorite countries, Israel(spent three beautiful weeks in the country in 2015, I cannot wait to go back ) and the beautiful location of Masada. I think having some background on the history and the places made me feel as if I was returning home. Although the killer took me surprise in the end, it's only because I was thinking so big when the answer was so obvious.<---F> Good quick read</---F>. ...more I read murder mysteries when my brain needs a rest and I want to escape. I tend to find an author and read all of her/his work beginning with the first book published. That's what I've done with Kathy Reich with the exception of this book. I didn't have the next two in her Temperance Brennan collection, so I skipped ahead to <+++>Cross Bones</+++> . Reading this book felt timely as Tempe heads to Israel, so it was trippy to read a story that was taking place at sites I was hearing about on the news daily. It I read murder mysteries when my brain needs a rest and I want to escape. I tend to find an author and read all of her/his work beginning with the first book published. That's what I've done with Kathy Reich with the exception of this book. I didn't have the next two in her Temperance Brennan collection, so I skipped ahead to <+++>Cross Bones</+++> . Reading this book felt timely as Tempe heads to Israel, so it was trippy to read a story that was taking place at sites I was hearing about on the news daily. It's a good story that's based on a snippett of a story about an archelogical dig. Reich does great research, and she has clearly been to the places about which she is writing. This was a fast, enjoyable read and though interesting, not is intricately plotted as some of her earlier pieces. Perhaps that's because her research needed to be impeccable when addressing the subject matter of the the ongoing religious conflict between Jews, Christians and Muslims. ...more An average forensic procedural mystery. In this one Tempy is called to examine centuries old bones supposedly retrieved from the Massada massacre site of biblical times. People have already paid with their lives in trying to acquire this skeleton, which she calls Massada Max. A couple of archeologists are of the view that the skeleton is of Christ himself. Theories abound that Christ died as a ripe old man after having progeny of his own, and amidst an extended family. Tempy is drawn to Israel, An average forensic procedural mystery. In this one Tempy is called to examine centuries old bones supposedly retrieved from the Massada massacre site of biblical times. People have already paid with their lives in trying to acquire this skeleton, which she calls Massada Max. A couple of archeologists are of the view that the skeleton is of Christ himself. Theories abound that Christ died as a ripe old man after having progeny of his own, and amidst an extended family. Tempy is drawn to Israel, in the wake of the finding, and , as usual lives are in danger. Her longtime boy friend, DI Andrew Ryan is also there following the investigation of a related murder. As usual she is embroiled in high intensity adventure. Learnt lots about the history of Judaism and Christianity, thouh Islam was touched only briefly upon. ...more This is probably the most cohesive and entertaining Tempe Brennan novel since Fatal Voyage. It doesn't suffer from the odd dialogue or sometimes cumbersome or confusing plots. And gone are the quasi-teenaged approach in regards to how Tempe handles her relationship with Ryan. A murdered orthodox Jew turns up in Montreal, shot execution style. How does this fall into Tempe's lap? A strange man gives her a photo that was supposedly given to him by the deceased. A photo showing an old skeleton that This is probably the most cohesive and entertaining Tempe Brennan novel since Fatal Voyage. It doesn't suffer from the odd dialogue or sometimes cumbersome or confusing plots. And gone are the quasi-teenaged approach in regards to how Tempe handles her relationship with Ryan. A murdered orthodox Jew turns up in Montreal, shot execution style. How does this fall into Tempe's lap? A strange man gives her a photo that was supposedly given to him by the deceased. A photo showing an old skeleton that was unearthed in Israel. A very special skeleton that supposedly has ties to the murder victim. What makes the skeleton so special? There's speculation that the skeleton could be that of Jesus himself. Sound a little far fetched? Maybe at first glance, but this plot is based on actual facts and events. The James ossuary in Israel, the tombs at Massada, etc, etc. This book is very reminiscent of something that would be written by a James Rollins or Dan Brown. Even the latest Robin Cook book has a similar theme: an ancient finding shrouded in mystery that could turn long standing modern religious dogma on its ear. Robin Cook's latest book, Intervention, had the same type of plot profile, only this book was done to much better effect. No more seemingly unrelated family dramas for Tempe in this book. No more 'I'm too proud to ask Ryan what's really on his mind!' infantile handling of their relationship. They're together, they're an item, they still work together and they do it well. Those are a few of the things that have kept the past few Tempe books from really shining; the fact that they've often deviated from the main plot with sub plots (usually of a personal or familial nature) that have nothing to do with the overall story of the book and make the novel seem disjointed. Very concise, very entertaining and full of interesting facts about early Christian religion and Israeli history. ...more I would actually give this book 2.5 stars if that was a possibility. Since it's not, I rounded down. I'm a huge fan of the TV show \"Bones.\" So when I encountered this book by \"Bones\" creator <---A>Kathy Reichs</---A> at a second-hand bookstore, I grabbed it, thinking that of course I would like the book too. I was kind of wrong. I didn't hate the book, but it took me some time to get through it. Reichs's writing style is somewhat staccato - her descriptive prose is written in half-thoughts, like she's checking I would actually give this book 2.5 stars if that was a possibility. Since it's not, I rounded down. I'm a huge fan of the TV show \"Bones.\" So when I encountered this book by \"Bones\" creator Kathy Reichs at a second-hand bookstore, I grabbed it, thinking that of course I would like the book too. I was kind of wrong. I didn't hate the book, but it took me some time to get through it. Reichs's writing style is somewhat staccato - her descriptive prose is written in half-thoughts, like she's checking off items on a list, sort of the way her brain probably works while she's examining skeletal remains at her day job. Unfortunately, we're not all forensic anthropologists, so as a layperson, I'd appreciate a little more insight into the subject matter she's writing about. And even though it was published only two months later, the book feels like a \"Me too!\" companion to \"The DaVinci Code.\" That said, I just picked up another of her books at the same store. It cost a dollar, and I don't like to dismiss an author out of hand, having read only one of her books. So we'll see. ...more Honestly, I want to give the book 1.5 stars, but it won't let me. For series, a one star means I definitely won't read the next book, but in this case, I probably will. However, this book was a chore to get through. I feel like Reichs was jumping on the Dan Brown bandwagon with this book. At an autopsy of a Jewish importer in Montreal, Brennan is handled a photo of a skeleton unearthed at Masada, but the skeleton was never included in the official reports. Could this be the skeletal remains of J Honestly, I want to give the book 1.5 stars, but it won't let me. For series, a one star means I definitely won't read the next book, but in this case, I probably will. However, this book was a chore to get through. I feel like Reichs was jumping on the Dan Brown bandwagon with this book. At an autopsy of a Jewish importer in Montreal, Brennan is handled a photo of a skeleton unearthed at Masada, but the skeleton was never included in the official reports. Could this be the skeletal remains of Jesus? This book had three problems which drive me crazy: 1) too much detail, 2) too stupid too live syndrome, and 3)too preachy. I like science, but even I got sick of the numerous discussions of carbon dating, mitochondrial DNA, and other too in-depth too care descriptions. There was too much detail that failed to move the story along, and instead, it felt as though someone had tied a lead balloon to the narrative pace. Second, I know narrative tension arises when the protagonist puts himself or herself in danger. Yet, when an intelligent woman knows that a killer is on the loose repeatedly running into danger blindly or compromising a crime scene becomes unbelievably frustrating. Finally, in case I wasn't already thinking \"Thank goodness, this book is over\" when I neared the end, the author has to throw in the \"all religions are the same why can't we all get along.\" Normally, I wouldn't mind so much, but it was just the icing on the cake of \"was anything in this book really necessary\". The actually mystery of who murdered the Jewish importer was really only explored on 30-40 pages of a 348 page book. My least favorite Temperance Brennan book, so far, let's hope they get better, or the next one will be getting one star. ...more Temperance Brennan, a forensic anthropologist splitting time between Montreal and North Carolina is drawn into a *really* cold case. As in a set of bones that looks to be around 2000 years old. While working on a case involving the murder of a Jewish merchant, a picture of an old skeleton is given to her by an anonymous person who thinks it's the reason the merchant was killed. Digging deeper (no pun intended), she actually ends up in possession of the skeleton in the picture she received (quite Temperance Brennan, a forensic anthropologist splitting time between Montreal and North Carolina is drawn into a *really* cold case. As in a set of bones that looks to be around 2000 years old. While working on a case involving the murder of a Jewish merchant, a picture of an old skeleton is given to her by an anonymous person who thinks it's the reason the merchant was killed. Digging deeper (no pun intended), she actually ends up in possession of the skeleton in the picture she received (quite likely found at Masada) and there's a strong chance that the identity of the bones could really mess up some major theology for a number of groups. Brennan has to stay alive, figure out if the bones belong to Jesus Christ, and try and solve the murder of the merchant, all at the same time. A number of people would like to see the bones just \"disappear\", and if Brennan has to disappear along with them, so much the better... As you can tell, there's some strong parallels to Code in the story. Jewish history would need to be rewritten if the bones belong to Christ, and the entire Christian faith would collapse if the resurrection is proven to be false. There are some real \"alternative view\" scenarios thrown in, so if the story catches your attention you can actually delve into it further. The ending left a bit to be desired, but overall it was an enjoyable read and a nice addition to the Tempe series. ...more How disappointing! I enjoy mysteries because they make me think, they are usually well researched and can either teach me something or challenge me in some way, or make me laugh. Since this book was written by a former forensic scientist, I thought there would be something here. Instead, Reichs is one of the most condescending writers I've read. Instead of using a plot, she advances the action by having the main character ask herself redundant questions - sometimes eight of them in a row. She is How disappointing! I enjoy mysteries because they make me think, they are usually well researched and can either teach me something or challenge me in some way, or make me laugh. Since this book was written by a former forensic scientist, I thought there would be something here. Instead, Reichs is one of the most condescending writers I've read. Instead of using a plot, she advances the action by having the main character ask herself redundant questions - sometimes eight of them in a row. She is so unconfident in her writing skills that she puts a stupid cliffhanging statement at the end of each chapter. Her characters are lame and predictable, her plots forced and her endings contrived. I really wonder about the state of the publishing industry when so many manuscripts never make it through the slush piles, but such garbage as this is published. Its my first and last of this series, and actually I rented the audiobook because Barbara Rosenblat was narrating it, and I figured whatever she did was worth listening to. Poor woman! After narrating such fine authors as Nevada Barr and Elizabeth Peters, she must have suffered through this one. ...more https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201... First the good-- Reichs is a competent enough writer. If nothing else, she knows how to hook the reader in moving to the next chapter with corny cliffhangers...and some of them are really cornball-- a cheap conversational style of writing at times that just weakens the overall impact of the book. The author has obviously visited the Holy Land and knows the territory fairly well. The Bad-- Ryan's constant reference to \"tap pants\" and other sexual innuendo. I know that the author wants us to comprehen First the good-- Reichs is a competent enough writer. If nothing else, she knows how to hook the reader in moving to the next chapter with corny cliffhangers...and some of them are really cornball-- a cheap conversational style of writing at times that just weakens the overall impact of the book. The author has obviously visited the Holy Land and knows the territory fairly well. The Bad-- Ryan's constant reference to \"tap pants\" and other sexual innuendo. I know that the author wants us to comprehend that these two people tend to have the hots for one another-- but after awhile, the repetition of the sexual nature of their relationship begins to come across as juvenile. This story made little sense at times. A set of bones from Masada, supposedly (no, possibly) belonging to Christ-- threatens to set Christianity and Judaism on its head! Okay-- it gets partially resolved, but the reader never gets full resolution of \"dem bones\" Brennan continues to stupidly put herself in danger doing stuff no lab technician ever would. The same problems persist in CSI type stories where the CSI techs act more like detectives... I know that this is a popular series.. popular enough to inspire a tv series.. but it just doesn't seem to be my cup of tea. There are some interesting tidbits about bones, DNA, etc. but those often are spouted off in a manner that made me feel like I was reading a college biology textbook instead of a murder mystery thriller. Reichs knows the forensic details very well.. however, I can't get past the characters that I just can't really bring myself to like or care about because they are acting so oddly. ...more Cross Bones is my 3rd Kathy Reichs book, and I have to say I reaaly liked it - enjoyed it actually. I like Reichs' writing style. There were no dull moments in this book, it keeps you glued. Reichs' also uses language that the general public can understand - it's simple but not really dumbed down. There were a lot of technical terms (as can be expected) but most were supplemented with layman explanations. She doesn't try to make Tempe sound poetic/philosophical which I think is a pothole some aut Cross Bones is my 3rd Kathy Reichs book, and I have to say I reaaly liked it - enjoyed it actually. I like Reichs' writing style. There were no dull moments in this book, it keeps you glued. Reichs' also uses language that the general public can understand - it's simple but not really dumbed down. There were a lot of technical terms (as can be expected) but most were supplemented with layman explanations. She doesn't try to make Tempe sound poetic/philosophical which I think is a pothole some authors fall into when they have academic oriented characters. There were those moments but they used properly so that you end up reflecting instead of trying to understand what you just read. Reichs' also knows her stuff. Other readers accuse her of jumping on the Dan Brown wagon but I think they are wrong. Sure, Cross Bones involves Jesus controversies but I beleive her and her sources more than I do Dan Brown and his. I think that this knowledge of the material helped in making the plot more subtle and realistic than The Da Vinci Code. I've been trying to avoid books like these because they normally turn me into a conspiracy theorist for a limited period of time but my curiosity got the best of me. Maybe it was the more realistic plot ar maybe it's because I'm older now and more discerning than when I read The Da Vinci Code, either way, Cross Bones didn't turn me into a conspiracy nut and I'm glad about that. Wpuld I recommemd Cross Bones? Definitely. For people who are curious about the some of the JC controversies, this book is a really good start. ...more Kathy Reichs really knows her stuff. While I\u2019m a big fan of the television show \u201cBones\u201d, I\u2019m a bigger fan of Kathy Reichs and the Temperance Brennan books. Temperance is a top notch forensic anthropologist who splits her time between her home teaching at a college in North Carolina and working for the medical examiner in Montreal, Quebec. Unlike the Temperance in the show, the book Temperance is more relatable. She\u2019s at the middle to far end of her forties with a divorce and a daughter in colleg Kathy Reichs really knows her stuff. While I\u2019m a big fan of the television show \u201cBones\u201d, I\u2019m a bigger fan of Kathy Reichs and the Temperance Brennan books. Temperance is a top notch forensic anthropologist who splits her time between her home teaching at a college in North Carolina and working for the medical examiner in Montreal, Quebec. Unlike the Temperance in the show, the book Temperance is more relatable. She\u2019s at the middle to far end of her forties with a divorce and a daughter in college. She is witty, sexy, and very, very smart. This book is one of the smartest in the series thus far. Tempie is handed a picture after an autopsy of a deceased Jewish man, and it sets a crazy adventure in motion. She has no idea what this picture means, but she is gung-ho to find out. When the line of evidence leads her to Israel, Tempie and Agent Andrew Ryan are on the case. Fighting through rough archeological sites, religious zealots who are determined to make sure Tempie doesn\u2019t take anything from their country, and a murderer on the loose, they have their work cut out for them. Kathy Reichs write an intelligent, beautiful, twisty-and-turny mystery that always keeps the readers on their toes. She uses the perfect combination of science, anthropology, romance, and story to keep everyone in love with her characters. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good mystery, anyone who likes \u201cBones\u201d, and anyone who is in need of a wonderful series to pick up. ...more At this point I believe I'm completely caught up on the Temperance Brennan novels. This one is probably one of my favorites, if not my favorite of all of them. Maybe because it's primarily set in Israel, rich in history, art, and culture. Maybe because I understand the humor, the religious references, among other things, without a guide-book that others WILL require when reading it if they are non-initiated as far as Judaism is concerned, but basically this one book just puts so many other crime At this point I believe I'm completely caught up on the Temperance Brennan novels. This one is probably one of my favorites, if not my favorite of all of them. Maybe because it's primarily set in Israel, rich in history, art, and culture. Maybe because I understand the humor, the religious references, among other things, without a guide-book that others WILL require when reading it if they are non-initiated as far as Judaism is concerned, but basically this one book just puts so many other crime-based fiction novels to shame. The story itself will have you on the edge of your seat, pulling you hair out of your head. It's chilling, it's deep, it's fascinating, yet it lacks nothing in terms of humor andthe crime-fighting factor we have all come to know from \"Bones\" as a TV show, which is what a lot of people expect to see in the books as well. This book has a fantastic balance of everything and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's very on-par, in some respects, with the Da Vinci Code, but the \"shock value\" is different. ...more \u201cWhen I first read the blurb on the back of this book I thought \"Da Vinci Code\". As far as I'm concerned not a positive thing. (I got 60 pages into said book and no farther as I was excruciatingly bored). However because of the main character being a forensic anthropologist I stuck with it and was pleasantly surprised. Yes there is a slight conspiracy theory theme to do with ancient remains that may or may not be that of Jesus but I wasn't bombarded with heavy religious doctrine and corrupt churc \u201cWhen I first read the blurb on the back of this book I thought \"Da Vinci Code\". As far as I'm concerned not a positive thing. (I got 60 pages into said book and no farther as I was excruciatingly bored). However because of the main character being a forensic anthropologist I stuck with it and was pleasantly surprised. Yes there is a slight conspiracy theory theme to do with ancient remains that may or may not be that of Jesus but I wasn't bombarded with heavy religious doctrine and corrupt church officials. It had enough adventure and crime so that the theme was constant but not all consuming. It was more to do with the forensics of the discovery and the implications of which had ramifications in the religious foundations of Judaism and Christianity. This is one cypher themed book that didn't bore me to tears and Kathy Reichs' background in forensics lends a real authenticity to the detailed descriptions of bone formation and the like. My first Kathy Reichs definitely won't be my last.\u201d ...more The Temperance Brennan series never fails to impress. I find it very comforting to be able to pick up any novel in this series and know that I'll find the plot and the science both comprehensive and interesting. Reichs manages to toe the line between the complex science of forensic work especially forensic anthropology and the intriguing detective work of the plot lines expertly. I find myself as interested in the science as I am by the case. This is one of the more complex Reichs novels I've re The Temperance Brennan series never fails to impress. I find it very comforting to be able to pick up any novel in this series and know that I'll find the plot and the science both comprehensive and interesting. Reichs manages to toe the line between the complex science of forensic work especially forensic anthropology and the intriguing detective work of the plot lines expertly. I find myself as interested in the science as I am by the case. This is one of the more complex Reichs novels I've read purely because it involves topics which could be very controversial. However, I think Reichs manages to do so in such a way that is respectful to all involved. However the storyline itself runs on familiar lines while there is an unfamiliar backdrop to the events. I definitely enjoyed the book from front to back. Reichs has delivered as she always does. ...more Hmmm, well my feelings about this book are mixed. Yes, it was largely based on archaeological and anthropological facts and recent (within the last 60 years) expeditions and discoveries. Yes, in that regard it was better than the DaVinci Code by Dan Brown. However, the book gave a great buildup with the main storyline, but was a huge let down when it came time to wrap it up and connect all the dots. It's as if she got to the end and decided she was just as tired of writing it as I was of reading Hmmm, well my feelings about this book are mixed. Yes, it was largely based on archaeological and anthropological facts and recent (within the last 60 years) expeditions and discoveries. Yes, in that regard it was better than the DaVinci Code by Dan Brown. However, the book gave a great buildup with the main storyline, but was a huge let down when it came time to wrap it up and connect all the dots. It's as if she got to the end and decided she was just as tired of writing it as I was of reading it and then just ended it real quick to put the book and everyone else out of there misery. I enjoyed the book because of what the story was developing into, unfortunately I didn't enjoy the book because of how it ended. It was very rushed. Not one of my favorites... ...more I've always enjoyed reading Kathy Reichs books. However I found this one a little off. Too many questions going to be asked but never finished. Too much running around with no results. Jakes telling her not to contact anyone about the pictures and then the bones that are found, but keeps putting her when she asks questions. Instead he is flying here there and back and still no forthcoming answers to her partially formed questions. It seems the bones might be those of Jesus and then theories revol I've always enjoyed reading Kathy Reichs books. However I found this one a little off. Too many questions going to be asked but never finished. Too much running around with no results. Jakes telling her not to contact anyone about the pictures and then the bones that are found, but keeps putting her when she asks questions. Instead he is flying here there and back and still no forthcoming answers to her partially formed questions. It seems the bones might be those of Jesus and then theories revolving around beliefs about a possible family. With all the possibilities being put forward, I was interested to see how the story would wrap up and what conclusions they would arrive at, but an explosion conveniently puts to rest the author having to draw any conclusions. ...more This is one I listened to. I have heard others by her and watch the tv show Bones based on this character. This book was strange because it was about finding bones that might have been Jesus'. It told a lot about christian history and the beliefs about Mary. I was very interested in how the author was going to get out of this story. It helped to have a fiery car crash with a sacred shroud and bones burning up and the other set of maybe Jesus' bones getting stolen by a group of Jews who believe n This is one I listened to. I have heard others by her and watch the tv show Bones based on this character. This book was strange because it was about finding bones that might have been Jesus'. It told a lot about christian history and the beliefs about Mary. I was very interested in how the author was going to get out of this story. It helped to have a fiery car crash with a sacred shroud and bones burning up and the other set of maybe Jesus' bones getting stolen by a group of Jews who believe no bones should be disturbed so they secretly buried them and even under threat of death would not reveal the whereabouts. Makes you think about all the \"bible\" stories groups have made up throughout the years. ...more Not my favorite Kathy Reich's book by a long shot. Too wordy, although the subject matter was interesting, I could not get into the book at all. An Orthodox Jewish man is found dead, supposedly by his own hand in a closet in Quebec and it falls to Tempe Brennan to determine was this a suicide or not. To muddy things further she is handed a picture by a man who only calls himself \"Kaplan\" that shows a complete skeleton that seems to be an impossiblity. The story takes us from the morgue in Quebec to the ruins of Masada in Israel and touches on some of the most central tenants of Christianity and Judaic history. The facts are stated in a pr An Orthodox Jewish man is found dead, supposedly by his own hand in a closet in Quebec and it falls to Tempe Brennan to determine was this a suicide or not. To muddy things further she is handed a picture by a man who only calls himself \"Kaplan\" that shows a complete skeleton that seems to be an impossiblity. The story takes us from the morgue in Quebec to the ruins of Masada in Israel and touches on some of the most central tenants of Christianity and Judaic history. The facts are stated in a prologue before the novel and a bit of history into the archeological dig at Masada from 1963-65 is given along with other interesting facts surrounding a true archeological mystery. Ms. Reich then takes these facts and weaves a tale of greed and murder and faith that has Tempe and Ryan far from home in a land where neither speak the language but well understand the implications of what they might uncover. The book is strong and as always well written, Tempe puts things together slowly with some back and side stepping along the way and although the murder mystery wasn't so much of of a mystery to me the rest of the book, the essential \"mystery\" was handled adroitly with no bias as to the outcome. I also found that Ms. Reich did a very good job in researching and explaining the religious aspects that were the underpinning of the book. The religious orthodox Jewish beliefs about the autopsy were handled carefully as was the presentation of the ultra-religious Jewish sect in Israel and their edicts on human remains. The story behind the family tomb that was discovered and it's import for Christianity was also written strongly and well. I really enjoyed the reading of this, not only for the basic enjoyment of reading a good book but for the fact that I learned something new that I hadn't know. ...more This is the worst Kathy Reichs I have read. Because it was about the alleged bones of Jesus and his family, the plot had to be contrived in such a way that there could be no solution, so that it would remain a mystery and not upset any of the three religions involved. Naturally, the accompanied murders were solved, along with Tempe being in deathly danger several times, but managing miraculously to escape. The plot was also contrived to get both Tempe and Ryan together in Israel, which seemed to This is the worst Kathy Reichs I have read. Because it was about the alleged bones of Jesus and his family, the plot had to be contrived in such a way that there could be no solution, so that it would remain a mystery and not upset any of the three religions involved. Naturally, the accompanied murders were solved, along with Tempe being in deathly danger several times, but managing miraculously to escape. The plot was also contrived to get both Tempe and Ryan together in Israel, which seemed to be drawing some very long bows. And to top all that off, there were some serious errors in osteology, which Kathy Reichs should have recognised, even though she is a forensic anthropologist rather than an archaeologist. My knowledge of osteology is not extensive, but I know that a 'Caucasoid' skull does not equal a 'white guy', as told to the readers earlier in the book; later, she skimmed over that, not mentioning it again, as if she were embarrassed at her dodgying up the facts to suit her plot. 'Caucasoid' as the name implies, can be applied to skulls with ancestry centred on the Caucasus, and includes people from the Indian sub-continent as well as the Middle East. Jesus would have had a Caucasoid skull and a middle-eastern appearance. The second error is more in my sphere of expertise, but I can't believe that Reichs does not know that determining age at death of older skeletons from archaeological contexts is extremely difficult, and there is an overwhelming tendency to under-age. Throughout the book she refers to a 2000 year old skeleton that she has aged as 50-60 years as far too young to have been an 80 year old individual. My experience says that he certainly could have been. Bah humbug. Can do better. ...more An Orthodox Jewish man is found shot to death in Montreal. The condition of the body leaves more questions than answers for the investigators so Temperance Brennan is called in to examine the body. As she is leaving the ME office, a stranger gives her a photograph of a skeleton and tells her it is the reason for the victim's death. Its obvious that the skeleton is very old so she takes it back to her office to examine it. When she tracks down the actual skeleton, Tempe calls her friend Jake Dru An Orthodox Jewish man is found shot to death in Montreal. The condition of the body leaves more questions than answers for the investigators so Temperance Brennan is called in to examine the body. As she is leaving the ME office, a stranger gives her a photograph of a skeleton and tells her it is the reason for the victim's death. Its obvious that the skeleton is very old so she takes it back to her office to examine it. When she tracks down the actual skeleton, Tempe calls her friend Jake Drum, a biblical archaeologist, who thinks it was stolen from a museum in Israel and insists she bring the skeleton to Israel herself. Soon, Tempe is involved in an international mystery that could cause the need to re-write religious history. During the investigation, Tempe learns that the stranger's picture shows bones uncovered during an archaeological dig and the Montreal shooting victim ran an import business was a front for the trading of black market antiquities. Along with Detective Andrew Ryan, Tempe travels to Israel. As a forensic scientist, Tempe finds herself involved in the most controversial case of her career. The more she learns, the greater the danger the finds herself in. This tale has more than its fair share of twists and turns. At times it becomes confusing and tends to drag in places. The most interesting aspect of the book is the detail of the forensics involved in the investigation. Fewer chase scenes would have been appreciated. ...more This was not among my favorite Reichs novels. I felt it was repetitive, too technical, and the story wound itself in circles. There wasn't enough 'procedure' in this procedural. There was archaeological intrigue, to be sure, and Reichs did her location research. I could certainly tell that she took a trip to Israel to accurately depict the stories events. However, there was too much going on with whose bones were related to who, and where Max fit in, and the shroud bones... it was too much infor This was not among my favorite Reichs novels. I felt it was repetitive, too technical, and the story wound itself in circles. There wasn't enough 'procedure' in this procedural. There was archaeological intrigue, to be sure, and Reichs did her location research. I could certainly tell that she took a trip to Israel to accurately depict the stories events. However, there was too much going on with whose bones were related to who, and where Max fit in, and the shroud bones... it was too much information that I just didn't care about. I did like the fact that Tempe and Ryan were an item in this novel, instead of dancing around all the angst. They make a believable couple. I could have done without all the references to 'tap pants' (whatever those are). I hate the fact that there are religious groups out there that are completely against discovering our past- and they go to such lengths to steal, destroy and rebury artifacts and bones. They would rather keep everyone ignorant instead of learning things about their ancestors. That's heading into an argument for another day- so I'll just leave that one there. All in all, an okay novel from Reichs. I wouldn't recommend that you start with this one if you haven't read her work before- there's too much archaeology and not enough procedural in it like her other novels. ...more This book starts off in Canada, but takes forensic anthropologust Tempe Brennan on a whirwind tour through the Holy Land in the search of the truth about an unnamed skeleton... Normally, I tend to avoid books that are compared with other favourite authors or books, particularly ones that say \"better than so-and-so\". Mainly, because I am cynical of hype and suspect I will be disappointed. Also because I'm probably quite contrary and don't like being told what I \"should\" like. So I have managed to g This book starts off in Canada, but takes forensic anthropologust Tempe Brennan on a whirwind tour through the Holy Land in the search of the truth about an unnamed skeleton... Normally, I tend to avoid books that are compared with other favourite authors or books, particularly ones that say \"better than so-and-so\". Mainly, because I am cynical of hype and suspect I will be disappointed. Also because I'm probably quite contrary and don't like being told what I \"should\" like. So I have managed to get through life thus far without touching Kathy Reichs, mainly due to the comparisons with Patricia Cornwell, whose early books I absolutely adored but whose later ones left me somewhat cold. However, I decided that this was my chance and that the time had come to venture into Kathy Reichs' world, and wow! What a great ride it was! OK, OK, the plot may end up being a little far-fetched, but it certainly swept me along quite merrily with it and has encouraged me to seek out some more of her books for the future. ...more I love Kathy Reichs and her Bones series, but I must say this book just didn't do it for me. Some parts were interesting and kept me hooked, but with other parts I found myself wanting to fall asleep after a couple pages. The ending seemed to drag on forever too with this book. It was one chapter too long in my opinion and I was almost tempted to put the book down after the second last chapter because I was that uninterested. Hopefully the next book pikes my interest a bit more Information is presented in this book as fact and is supposedly supported by extensive research done by the author. There isn't any proof that the Israeli government hid any discoveries from the public. It is supposition that is used as fact in the book. Even after a whole story is presented around this information, nothing is further gleamed from the bones and the digs. We are still left with possibilities and suppositions. What bothered me most about the book was the way the Chevra Kadisha is p Information is presented in this book as fact and is supposedly supported by extensive research done by the author. There isn't any proof that the Israeli government hid any discoveries from the public. It is supposition that is used as fact in the book. Even after a whole story is presented around this information, nothing is further gleamed from the bones and the digs. We are still left with possibilities and suppositions. What bothered me most about the book was the way the Chevra Kadisha is presented. The Chevra Kadisha are Jewish men in every country and in every community who serve the dead. They are selfless in their devotion. They do it for love and not money. They sit with the dead body until he or she is buried. They also help the bereaved during the difficult time. I have been on the receiving end of their goodness. The book desecrates their name. I am saddened to read the fictional portrayal of them. ...more The continuing series featuring Temperance Brennan, medical examiner and forensic anthropoligist of Charlotte, NC, and sometime consulting forensic doctor in Montreal, Quebec. This episode deals with a murder that leads to uncovering some old bones, thought by some scientists to potentially be the actual bones of Jesus Christ. This subject matter will probably be sacreligious to some. But it's just a story, and interesting twist on some actual archaeological explorations that really took place. The continuing series featuring Temperance Brennan, medical examiner and forensic anthropoligist of Charlotte, NC, and sometime consulting forensic doctor in Montreal, Quebec. This episode deals with a murder that leads to uncovering some old bones, thought by some scientists to potentially be the actual bones of Jesus Christ. This subject matter will probably be sacreligious to some. But it's just a story, and interesting twist on some actual archaeological explorations that really took place. It is a pretty fast read. The problem I had was that it bogged way down in the middle with bone analysis. Over and over again. And the author completely lost sight of the two murders that happened at the other end of the story. And then it is wrapped up in just a few pages in the end. So you'll get your fill of you like the anthropology stuff. But long on plot, this is not. Only three stars for me. ...more Next in chronological order was Reichs' Cross Bones. This is a Da Vinci Code-esque novel that addresses the sale of religious antiquities in relation to the death of an Orthodox Jewish man who made his living selling such items. Another theme in the novel is the discovery of several different locations anthropologists and religious experts claim as Jesus's tomb. Although the novel didn't appeal to me with its topic, I love Tempe and so I tried it anyway. I abandoned it a third of the way into th Next in chronological order was Reichs' Cross Bones. This is a Da Vinci Code-esque novel that addresses the sale of religious antiquities in relation to the death of an Orthodox Jewish man who made his living selling such items. Another theme in the novel is the discovery of several different locations anthropologists and religious experts claim as Jesus's tomb. Although the novel didn't appeal to me with its topic, I love Tempe and so I tried it anyway. I abandoned it a third of the way into the book. The focus on religion and ancient burial sites (and whether something like that could even be proven), as well as Tempe's traveling to Israel wasn't something I was interested in. I'm sure many readers loved The Da Vinci Code and would enjoy this novel; I'm not one of them. So as much as I hate to admit it, my Reichs quest was somewhat interrupted by my decision to not finish the book. ...more This is the first and last Kathy Reichs book I will be reading. It was recommended for me by a friend who, knowing my interest in early Christian history, thought I might enjoy it. If anything, it is my understanding early Christian history that made this book so painful. I know it's fiction, but it was building up something that would never cause a catastrophe. How many Christians/Jews/Muslims are such on the basis of evidence and archaeological research? The main character Tempe was making a m This is the first and last Kathy Reichs book I will be reading. It was recommended for me by a friend who, knowing my interest in early Christian history, thought I might enjoy it. If anything, it is my understanding early Christian history that made this book so painful. I know it's fiction, but it was building up something that would never cause a catastrophe. How many Christians/Jews/Muslims are such on the basis of evidence and archaeological research? The main character Tempe was making a mountain out of a molehill and I couldn't see the thrill. Then right at the end she draws this supposedly \"insightful\" and \"deep\" conclusion which has nothing to do with what is covered in the the book and is based on no evidence what so ever. Everything about this book left me seething. And I didn't care what happened to the characters, which is never good. ...more I just recently discovered this writer and I've never watched the TV series Bones that is based on this series. The female protagonist is loosely based on the author' s own life which gives some authenticity to the novels. This was the second one I've read and what I most enjoy are the unusual plots. This one dealt with the forensic analysis of skeletons that just might be member of the \"Jesus Family.\" Intriguing! Shades of Dan Brown. Both of the titles I've read so far, however, seemed to end t I just recently discovered this writer and I've never watched the TV series Bones that is based on this series. The female protagonist is loosely based on the author' s own life which gives some authenticity to the novels. This was the second one I've read and what I most enjoy are the unusual plots. This one dealt with the forensic analysis of skeletons that just might be member of the \"Jesus Family.\" Intriguing! Shades of Dan Brown. Both of the titles I've read so far, however, seemed to end too quickly and conveniently, as though Ms. Reichs had a deadline to meet and needed to hurry up and finish. Still, I'll sample a few more. They're quick beach reads...summer fast food and sometimes that's enough. ...more", "Title": "Cross Bones"},
