{"Comments": "I know, I haven't been around as much as usual lately. sorry!! We've been moving and transferring internet and all that stuff has made me have to deal with \"real life\" lately. But,<---M> don't worry</---M>, I still never sleep and read really fast. So, I read this and the next three after it over the long (<---B>long for me - moving sucks</---B>) weekend. And this book is the start of a downhill slope in the Betsy world. Things are getting serious and slightly (for now) depressing. I don't want sad or depressing in a worl I know, I haven't been around as much as usual lately. sorry!! We've been moving and transferring internet and all that stuff has made me have to deal with \"real life\" lately. But, don't worry, I still never sleep and read really fast. So, I read this and the next three after it over the long (long for me - moving sucks) weekend. And this book is the start of a downhill slope in the Betsy world. Things are getting serious and slightly (for now) depressing. I don't want sad or depressing in a world where the vampire queen is named Betsy and obsessed with shoes! I want silly, snarky, and fun. If I want sadness, I would watch the presidential debates - but I don't! Looks like he picked the wrong week to stop sniffing glue! Also, Betsy seems to be getting dumber by the book. Maybe when she died, her brain died.<---F> That would explain a lot</---F>. As for the story - Betsy's wedding is closing in and everyone in her life disappears or dies. Instead of dealing with it, she hides her head in the sand and throws herself pity parties. Seriously? My groom disappears before the wedding? I find him - kick his ass, then spend the wedding money on male strippers and a cocktail-holiday for me and my friends. Not wedding dress shopping. ...more 4 Stars: The errors and typo\u2019s have improved. The Queen Betsy Series is very funny and entertaining. A great lighthearted read that will make you smile, giggle, and laugh. Among some of my favorites. Outstanding literary work. The characters are well developed, interesting. The liked characters are likable and the hated are unlikable. The writing is captivating enough to keep you interested until the end and leave you wanting more. It has a fairly original or uniquely well-developed plot. The pre 4 Stars: The errors and typo\u2019s have improved. The Queen Betsy Series is very funny and entertaining. A great lighthearted read that will make you smile, giggle, and laugh. Among some of my favorites. Outstanding literary work. The characters are well developed, interesting. The liked characters are likable and the hated are unlikable. The writing is captivating enough to keep you interested until the end and leave you wanting more. It has a fairly original or uniquely well-developed plot. The pretense and romance was well balanced and done with properly distributed amounts of hints, behaviors and chemistry. Not so much predictable if at all. Overall, loved it, I recommend reading!! ...more Another dumb, but fun, trip through Queen Betsy's life. Several things come together at the end that make it slightly better than the last couple, but this will never be a top notch series. Still, Nancy Wu does a fabulous job of turning the drivel into a pleasantly distracting narrative for my commute. On to the next! Auch der sechste Teil ist wieder sehr unterhaltsam und humorvoll. Mir gef\u00e4llt es, dass sich die Geschichte und die Protagonisten immer weiter entwickeln. 3 1/2 stars I read the first two books in this series back in 2004. I know, that was ages ago. I loved Undead and Unwed so much I gave it an A- at All About Romance . I loved the sarcasm and the over-the-top superficial heroine and the in-your-face sensuality all of which wasn't overdone yet back then. It was a case of the right book at the right time. I was burning out on traditional romances, after having read too many in a row. I wasn't as thrilled with Undead and Unemployed though. It seemed 3 1/2 stars I read the first two books in this series back in 2004. I know, that was ages ago. I loved Undead and Unwed so much I gave it an A- at All About Romance . I loved the sarcasm and the over-the-top superficial heroine and the in-your-face sensuality all of which wasn't overdone yet back then. It was a case of the right book at the right time. I was burning out on traditional romances, after having read too many in a row. I wasn't as thrilled with Undead and Unemployed though. It seemed to pretty much go nowhere and ennui quickly set in as Betsy and Sinclair\u2019s relationship lost its lustiness. After getting through it, I didn't feel the urge to continue the series and mostly forgot about it. So why am I reading book 6 now, you ask? Honestly, only because the battery on my Ipod died, I needed something to listen to on my commute and I had this audio on CD all nice and handy like. I think the time and space and perhaps skipping four books in the series may have been a good thing because I thought this book was fun. Yes, it is mostly filler, and still missing that lusty goodness, but I appreciated the funny quips and unending sarcasm even when nothing much at all is going on. Basically Betsy The Vampire Queen wants a genuine wedding to her lover Sinclair The Vampire King. The mysterious \u201cBook of the Dead\u201d proclaims them already married and that\u2019s good enough for Sinclair but Betsy\u2019s still a girl and she wants the whole shebang. He gives her a few million to get it done and then promptly disappears for a good chunk of the book. This leaves Betsy all alone and forces her to make some decisions and find her inner power when a Big Bad enters the picture. Betsy is miffed; she moans and complains (for most of the book) but never got the impression that she was overly bothered by Sinclair\u2019s extended absence. His assistant is the one who fears he might be dead but Betsy doesn't give it a second thought until she is forced to. So what else happens because surely that can\u2019t fill five hours of audio, right? Well, since you asked, here you go. Betsy is saddled with the care of her baby half-brother, all of her live-in friends and hangers-on have gone missing too, and werewolves show up and try to shoot her dead because one of them is missing as well and they blame her. Something fishy is afoot and Becky eventually investigates. Basically all of the key characters are out of the picture (which is ok for me since I don\u2019t remember most them anyway!) and this book zooms in on Betsy. It\u2019s mostly sexless (boo) but it is funny, silly, mindless fluff and it didn't at all annoy me. It won\u2019t change your life or make you look at the world any differently but it might make you laugh and sometimes that\u2019s better than nothing, right? Here\u2019s a little taste of the twisted humor. If you find this amusing you might want to check the book out or seek help. Whatever works. \u201cGarrett would eat his own balls before he\u2019d ever hurt Antonia, and he\u2019d never, never kill her.\u201d Derik shuddered and covered his eyes. \u201cMust you use phrases that I\u2019ll never get out of my head? Eat his own balls? Who says that?\u201d Betsy does, LOL. I love how she can squick out a big bad werewolf with only her words. And just when I was about to doze off, the dialogue and turn of phrase catches me off guard and forces me to keep on listening. \u201cSo you, uh, don\u2019t love me, yeah, I\u2019m getting that. \u201cNot fucking likely, you blonde leech on legs. I dream about locking you up in a sunny cell.\u201d I don\u2019t know, maybe it\u2019s my mood but I found this stuff funny. Feel free to join me in my dark little corner of shame over here. Narration Notes: Nancy Wu has an upbeat voice that\u2019s perky, slightly bratty and truly fits the sarcastic Betsy. Sinclair though? Ugh. He sounds rather snooty instead of alpha whenever he utters his dialogue. Snooty is not sexy. It\u2019s just snooty and a little off-putting. Isn't Sinclair supposed to be sexy with his \u201cbig hands, big teeth, big dick\u201d? Or am I remembering him wrong? No matter, he\u2019s hardly in this book anyway. ...more That's probably the last one of these I read. www.fantasyliterature.com If you're looking for a fun read to finish before bedtime, UNDEAD AND UNEASY will do the trick. It only takes about two hours to read from first page to last, and you'll get in a few laughs along the way. Betsy is still preparing for her wedding to Vampire King Eric Sinclair, but this time there are even more complications than usual -- Jessica is still sick with cancer, some people close to her have ended up dead, <---C>Tina</---C> has been sent to ease ruffled vampire feathers in Europe, and the King himse If you're looking for a fun read to finish before bedtime, UNDEAD AND UNEASY will do the trick. It only takes about two hours to read from first page to last, and you'll get in a few laughs along the way. Betsy is still preparing for her wedding to Vampire King Eric Sinclair, but this time there are even more complications than usual -- Jessica is still sick with cancer, some people close to her have ended up dead, Tina has been sent to ease ruffled vampire feathers in Europe, and the King himself seems to be hiding away, sulking. Oh, and there's BabyJohn to take care of, and sister Laura to handle, and the Devil to avoid, and even a visit from the Wyndham Werewolf clan. Overall, this is a fun, easy read in the Queen Betsy series, and readers will be happy to find some answers to a few previously unanswered story lines. ...more OK, I'll admit it - Queen Betsy is my guilty pleasure, and I don't even have her shoe fetish! This story has more angst than previous books, in good part because of the author's intro letter. After reading that, I was a bit apprehensive, wondering which of the main characters was going to be killed, so I reached the final pages with a combination of feeling displeasure/pleasure at what happened to whom. Loved the werewolf pack! I'll bet we see more of them - at least we'd better!! I'm hard pressed to give this two stars. I gave it two only because I am so fond of the other books in the series. I don't know what happened with this one, but it was simply awful. Betsy is normally a fun character. On the surface, she is always self-centered, childish, and a bit ditzy. What redeems her -- normally -- is her concern for others, her sense of humor, and the fact that she is actually no dummy. In this installment of the Undead series, Betsy spends close to two-thirds of the book c I'm hard pressed to give this two stars. I gave it two only because I am so fond of the other books in the series. I don't know what happened with this one, but it was simply awful. Betsy is normally a fun character. On the surface, she is always self-centered, childish, and a bit ditzy. What redeems her -- normally -- is her concern for others, her sense of humor, and the fact that she is actually no dummy. In this installment of the Undead series, Betsy spends close to two-thirds of the book complaining, cursing, and bemoaning the great inconvenience of having all of her loved ones either disappear or fall victim to some great personal misfortune. Despite all evidence pointing to something sinister, Betsy selfishly, stupidly, and often sarcastically continues to worry about herself rather than investigate an obvious problem. People are calling and showing up at her door, trying to get her cooperation -- to no avail. And what do we readers earn after patiently enduring this vapid tirade? Once Betsy actually acknowledges the obvious danger her loved ones are in and realizes that they are lost, she suddenly finds them. Story over. What makes this particularly unpardonable are <---A>MaryJanice Davidson</---A>'s own comments about this book in the acknowledgments and letter to readers preceding the first chapter. She states, \"This is a book that goes where the first five haven't\" and \"Everything in the Undead universe has been leading to this book.\" Even the blurb says, \"...what happens next will shake the foundation of the vampire world forever....\" Well, no it didn't. Not even close. And, if this is what the author had in mind while leading me on through the purchase of five previous novels and numerous hours of reading time, then she is a cruel woman indeed. It is that bad. Seriously. It took me a while to get around to reading the sixth in this series. I normally read them quickly. There is a seventh coming out in June, and I honestly do not know if I will read it. I am going to have to find it within me to forgive MaryJanice Davidson for wasting three hours of my life. ...more I liked this book WAY better than the last one. Things were kinda lame and boring in the last book. I rarely laughed at a single moment, so I didn't have high hopes for this book. I was just praying that things would pick back up and I was pleased that this book upped the standards. There wasn't much Sinclair in it for obvious reasons (the dude's missing), so I was suffering from a bit of Sinclair/Betsy interaction withdrawal. I felt like this book was more about Betsy as a character and how she' I liked this book WAY better than the last one. Things were kinda lame and boring in the last book. I rarely laughed at a single moment, so I didn't have high hopes for this book. I was just praying that things would pick back up and I was pleased that this book upped the standards. There wasn't much Sinclair in it for obvious reasons (the dude's missing), so I was suffering from a bit of Sinclair/Betsy interaction withdrawal. I felt like this book was more about Betsy as a character and how she'd grow. Betsy isn't the most self-relient person and she can be clueless at times. Whenever a problem occurs, she always has 5+ people there to help her out. In this book, Betsy was truly alone. Her world was falling apart all around her and there was really no one she could go to. I felt like Betsy matured more when she didn't have Sinclair and co to fish her out of trouble. I thought there was definitely more going on plot-wise in this book than in the others. Of course, it wasn't a lengthy thought provoking novel, but there was something more than random events happening. I legit was confused for most of the book. I didn't understand where everyone had disappeared to and I felt bad for Betsy. I had no idea who the culprit was until the moment Betsy found out. The whole scheme was unveiled and I felt stupid afterwards. Everything made sense at the end and I had been lame and hadn't picked up on the clues. I kinda wish that this book was the end because I've heard that some of the later books aren't as good. Plus, I don't know how much more of Nick the cop I can stomach before I'll want to stab someone (that guy is a douche!). I'll read the rest of the series, but probably not til later since I'm happy with how this book ended. ...more Another fun read with Betsy and her friends/family and werewolves (yes, they join us in this one)! Jessica is ill and yet MaryJanice Davidson manages to bring in the fun side of Betsy and her caring side all in one... I was rather worried but with the unexpected 'expected' (I know I know) ending, it turns it all around!!! Things happen that I certainly didn't expect in this book and the 'penny' dropped when Betsy works something out... and this helped me understand what I thought was going to have Another fun read with Betsy and her friends/family and werewolves (yes, they join us in this one)! Jessica is ill and yet MaryJanice Davidson manages to bring in the fun side of Betsy and her caring side all in one... I was rather worried but with the unexpected 'expected' (I know I know) ending, it turns it all around!!! Things happen that I certainly didn't expect in this book and the 'penny' dropped when Betsy works something out... and this helped me understand what I thought was going to have to take place but doesn't have to after all (Yah)!!! Confused???? Read the books ;) Anyway... the laughter continues and I look forward to continuing the series. ...more Omg. I can't believe everything that happened in this book!!!! It was definitely better than the last 2. But oh Jesus. I'm about to start book 7 after typing this and I just can't believe that I've knocked out the first 6 books in about 2 weeks (it would have been sooner if I didn't have to wait on 4-6 to come in the mail lol). I can't wait to see what is in store for Betsy in the next book. Especially now that her and Eric are OFFICIALLY married, and not just seen as queen and king by the vampi Omg. I can't believe everything that happened in this book!!!! It was definitely better than the last 2. But oh Jesus. I'm about to start book 7 after typing this and I just can't believe that I've knocked out the first 6 books in about 2 weeks (it would have been sooner if I didn't have to wait on 4-6 to come in the mail lol). I can't wait to see what is in store for Betsy in the next book. Especially now that her and Eric are OFFICIALLY married, and not just seen as queen and king by the vampire world. ...more These books lately just seem to be missing out on what I loved so much about the first couple - the spunky humor with Betsy. Trying to add in serious elements mixed in with the fun-loving Betsy just doesn't really work as well together. I did like this one better than the previous volume (but since I pretty much hated that one, that's not saying much) and I will continue reading but I wish the feel of the first book would return. Uneasy! Yep, that's how I felt while I was reading this book. I couldn't wait till I finished it. It's not funny! I don't see the appeal and found it in many ways crude. The only thing I liked about the book was the cover. :( Book 6 is the new best of the series IMHO. This Book seemed so short because I reached the end so fast. When you can not wait to get back to the story, you have a winner. Never saw the villain in this one until the end. Very good read. On to book 7. Well I have been really enjoying this series. I love how Ms Davidson has not stayed within the old vampire stereotypes. And put her own twist in it. And the characters in this series are ones you can not help but love and enjoy their antics pas mal, mais l'histoire commence \u00e0 tourner \u00e0 rond, j'ai pas l'impression qu'on avance beaucoup dans l'histoire I really didn't have to think to breeze through this. A friend told me the brain needs some candy once in awhile. This'll rot it for sure. First book I read in the series. Liked it so much that I had to track down all the before and after books! I think I've read them all. Another fun Queen Betsy book! These books are pure fluff and I really look forward to them. I'm glad to see Betsy maturing a bit. Much better than the previous one! always good for a giggle. Besides the first book this is the best of the series so far! You know how I always mention those infamous obnoxious heroines? This is it. We have one right here. Imagine a former model suddenly getting her position as one of the most powerful beings on the planet - the Queen of all Vampires. And instead of conquering evil to ensure world peace or something as noble as that, her ultimate goal is to conquer all evil which comes between her and her shoes. So, this book isn't the first one with Betsy so I've known her for some time. And every time I buy yet a You know how I always mention those infamous obnoxious heroines? This is it. We have one right here. Imagine a former model suddenly getting her position as one of the most powerful beings on the planet - the Queen of all Vampires. And instead of conquering evil to ensure world peace or something as noble as that, her ultimate goal is to conquer all evil which comes between her and her shoes. So, this book isn't the first one with Betsy so I've known her for some time. And every time I buy yet another instalment in the series I hope she will have at least a little change at heart and will become more likable. She's faced out-of-this-world evil, acquired servants of questionable origins who love her and yet she refuses to change. I'm not saying her bitchy remarks are all the time boring, they are funny in fact, but every once in a while one can appreciate a depth in character which is missing here. But like I said, if it was truly terrible I wouldn't be returning to these books. I always forget I hate the main character and buy a new book in the series because the bitchy protagonist aside, they are funny and entertaining. You know I like to turn my brain off so this is exactly what I need. Or what you need. Take it on the beach with you and you won't regret. ...more Wow! Finally! A plot! Not just the author jumping from foot to foot, covering the threadbare spots with one liners and hilarious antics. To begin with I thought that Betsy feeling oh so looonly was just one of those chic lit things. Moaning, groaning self pity wallowing is after all a common feature in the genre. But no... There was a point to it! Something that kept the story together and actually peaked your interest and made you wonder about the weird coincidences and, low and behold, brought Wow! Finally! A plot! Not just the author jumping from foot to foot, covering the threadbare spots with one liners and hilarious antics. To begin with I thought that Betsy feeling oh so looonly was just one of those chic lit things. Moaning, groaning self pity wallowing is after all a common feature in the genre. But no... There was a point to it! Something that kept the story together and actually peaked your interest and made you wonder about the weird coincidences and, low and behold, brought out a real concern about Sink Lair's personal safety. Fancy that! I've never even LIKED lover boy. The best installment so far. And the werewolves? They're a treat and a hoot and I sure hope they'll revisit! ...more Amusing as always Entertaining series. This is book #6 of the Queen Betsy series (that's what I like calling it). Betsy is up to her usual dumbness, she is mad at Eric again so he has left. Tina is overseas, Garrett and Antonia is gone, Jessica is in the hospital and her father and step monster dies and nobody is at the funeral that she knows. She gets beat up again and nobody is coming to her rescue. She doesn't freak until Tina says something is definitely wrong because Eric isn't talking to her either. Betsy finally gets off her b This is book #6 of the Queen Betsy series (that's what I like calling it). Betsy is up to her usual dumbness, she is mad at Eric again so he has left. Tina is overseas, Garrett and Antonia is gone, Jessica is in the hospital and her father and step monster dies and nobody is at the funeral that she knows. She gets beat up again and nobody is coming to her rescue. She doesn't freak until Tina says something is definitely wrong because Eric isn't talking to her either. Betsy finally gets off her butt and starts to investigate. I'm not telling you where any of them went at all you will just have read it. Crazy as usual. ...more OMG so much better than the last 3 books <+++>Undead and Uneasy</+++>, the 6th installment of the Undead series, finds Betsy in a lonely situation. Her wedding to Sinclair is only weeks away, but the groom mysteriously disappeared after they had a fight. On top of that, everyone else in Betsy\u2019s life is either away or preoccupied with other things. The only company Betsy has is BabyJon and a group of werewolves that unexpectedly show up at the mansion for rather strange and alarming reasons. I really enjoyed <+++>Undead and Uneasy</+++>. After reading the pre Undead and Uneasy, the 6th installment of the Undead series, finds Betsy in a lonely situation. Her wedding to Sinclair is only weeks away, but the groom mysteriously disappeared after they had a fight. On top of that, everyone else in Betsy\u2019s life is either away or preoccupied with other things. The only company Betsy has is BabyJon and a group of werewolves that unexpectedly show up at the mansion for rather strange and alarming reasons. I really enjoyed Undead and Uneasy. After reading the previous novel, Undead and Unpopular, I complained that there seemed to be too much going on and the novel felt a little too busy. I\u2019m happy to report that this novel wasn\u2019t suffering from the same problem. With so many side characters out of the way, Betsy\u2019s adventures were much more focus and organized to read about. Don\u2019t worry though, Betsy still manages to be utterly hilarious in her trademark vain, superficial manner even though there are less side characters to interact with. Sinclair\u2019s absence did reduce the steaminess that has been increasing over the past few installments of the series, but astonishingly Davidson managed to keep the novel amusing without him. The plot for this book was really delightful. There were a lot of fun, surprise elements that kept me guessing at where the book was going, and there were a few new character introductions which raised some serious questions about a pre-existing character that I wasn\u2019t previously that interested in. The ending left me very satisfied. I have to admit that when it all came together at the end, I was surprised. I was also happy because the ending of Undead and Uneasy explained some events that had been left unclear and mysterious since the end of Undead and Unpopular. This novel wrapped up and concluded a lot of loose ends, which I\u2019m grateful for because now the story can progress full steam ahead. Undead and Uneasy is a must read for those following the series! ...more", "Title": "Undead and Uneasy"},
