{"Comments": "<+++>Pregnancy and Men</+++>As a first time father, my wife\u2019s pregnancy actually intimidates me quite significantly. I purchased this guide in the hopes that it would assist me in removing any obfuscation; allowing me to be a more calm and helpful husband to my wife during her pregnancy. I can wholly attest that it\u2019s done just that. From conception through to how to best assist my wife, there is nothing left out of this material. The material that the author provided on supplementation and physical necessities alone was wo As a first time father, my wife\u2019s pregnancy actually intimidates me quite significantly. I purchased this guide in the hopes that it would assist me in removing any obfuscation; allowing me to be a more calm and helpful husband to my wife during her pregnancy. I can wholly attest that it\u2019s done just that. From conception through to how to best assist my wife, there is nothing left out of this material. The material that the author provided on supplementation and physical necessities alone was worth the price of the book and the recipe suggestions furthered my understanding of how to help maintain a healthy pregnancy. I really enjoyed the breakdown of the trimester as well; each phase being written about in a way that coherently describes the best means of responding to the situation. Also, the author even describes the methods for dealing with the big moment before and after arriving at the hospital; a chapter filled with details of occurrences and expectations that further quelled any concerns I had prior. Finally,<---M> the discussion on the possibilities: Post-partum depression</---M>, mood swings, and even sleep loss. This full disclosure of information even further cemented my understanding to the point that I am now actually looking forward to everything instead of being nervous about it. In summation, if you\u2019re looking for a guide that will lead you through all the phases of pregnancy from pre-conception to post-delivery, this succinct and dense book will definitely illuminate you. The author is an obvious authority on the subject and, like myself, once you\u2019re done with the material you\u2019ll feel way more relaxed about the joys of having a baby; I know I am. ...more A breath of fresh air, I have to say that I haven't found many books in this particular genre about men and their first step towards great parenthood. The author, <---A>Pratik Patil</---A> was born in India and a first time proud father of their little girl Urja. This is his first publication and I wasn't disappointed. A well executed guide for first time fathers (<---B>speaking from his own personal experience</---B>) with a healthy attitude, informative precision, and a few laugh-out-loud moments thrown in for good meas A breath of fresh air, I have to say that I haven't found many books in this particular genre about men and their first step towards great parenthood. The author, Pratik Patil was born in India and a first time proud father of their little girl Urja. This is his first publication and I wasn't disappointed. A well executed guide for first time fathers (speaking from his own personal experience) with a healthy attitude, informative precision, and a few laugh-out-loud moments thrown in for good measure. Follow Pratik Patil as he takes you through his journey of ups and downs with a flair to connect to the readers. An extremely insightful book to help any father (and new mother) learn how to prepare for the wonderful adventure into '<+++>Pregnancy and Men</+++>\". I was given a copy for reading and an unbiased review. ...more In my 13 years of practice, whenever a couple consults me, I ask the husbands a question how did they prepare for pregnancy? Most of the times I get is a smile. I did not find any book which details importance of preparation of men's body in a true sense, until I find this gem by some unknown author. I personally believe the same, its very important for men to prepare and plan for a pregnancy. That makes pregnancy responsible, healthy and fun. I have 2 big kids by now and I could relate most of In my 13 years of practice, whenever a couple consults me, I ask the husbands a question how did they prepare for pregnancy? Most of the times I get is a smile. I did not find any book which details importance of preparation of men's body in a true sense, until I find this gem by some unknown author. I personally believe the same, its very important for men to prepare and plan for a pregnancy. That makes pregnancy responsible, healthy and fun. I have 2 big kids by now and I could relate most of experiences that author mentioned. The book flows nicely and very organized in the topics. The preparation topics are my favorite and the last one: My dear parents. Greats tips on pregnancy and parenting all over the book and timely sprinkle of humor. I have kept it this book in waiting lounge of my office for people to read.<---F> Nicely written and inspirational quick read</---F>. ...more On a friend's recommendation, was just waiting for kindle version to arrive, and it did arrive today and it was worth the anticipation. I think rest of my remaining 8 months, i will be referencing this book again and again with my husband. This book is packed with some amazing info thats very hard to find anywhere else, its all in one place and if you happen to read a page second time it feels like you have discovered something new that connects with you. It has a chapter called 'Food For Her' a On a friend's recommendation, was just waiting for kindle version to arrive, and it did arrive today and it was worth the anticipation. I think rest of my remaining 8 months, i will be referencing this book again and again with my husband. This book is packed with some amazing info thats very hard to find anywhere else, its all in one place and if you happen to read a page second time it feels like you have discovered something new that connects with you. It has a chapter called 'Food For Her' and I just loved it. Parenting tips in this book you won't find it anywhere else. Read what author says about 'touch' and you will know. My husband seems be more excited than me. Feels like he has found more tricks in this book than me. I just finished reading this book, and I can keep talking... ...more A quick read, it was perfect for my coast to coast in-flight read, now i am equipped with all the husband/first-time-father-ticks i need to have. Got this book on suggestion from a friend, was kind of hesitant at first to get a 'pregnancy' related book for myself, but seems like my 5 dollar gamble has worked. A very nicely written and persuasive book I must say. can u believe this has a few super awesome recipes as well, who knew. Short in length at 92 pages this book is not short on information for both males and females. Written in a conversational tone, it concisely gives practical information without overburdening the reader with medical jargon or information. It's an excellent first book for a first time father-to-be. I received a copy from Goodreads First Reads in return for a review. The audience for this book is primarily directed toward men, but has a lot of information that will appeal to expectant mothers as well. The inclusion of food and recipes for mother and baby was unexpected and extremely helpful. I enjoyed reading this book and will be passing it along to my good friends that are expecting their first child this Fall. short but to the point, no unnecessary medical info and not too many references. i needed something quick like this. better than so-called best sellers in fatherhood out there.<---C>Pratik Patil</---C>", "Title": "Pregnancy and Men"},
