{"Comments": "Ready to swap books or reviews...let me know! Janie When I cracked this novel I didn't know what to expect.<---F> Really</---F>. First off, romance novels are not my cup of tea. Even with three spoonfuls of sugar. Not even Mary Poppins could make THAT medicine go down. Still I dove in undaunted fully armored in case anything romancey gushy gushy tried to gun me down. It's a war novel I thought, it can't be all bad. How pleased I was to find out I was wrong. Inside the covers of this book I found not the cheap cookie cutter category romance I half expected, bu When I cracked this novel I didn't know what to expect. Really. First off, romance novels are not my cup of tea. Even with three spoonfuls of sugar. Not even Mary Poppins could make THAT medicine go down. Still I dove in undaunted fully armored in case anything romancey gushy gushy tried to gun me down. It's a war novel I thought, it can't be all bad. How pleased I was to find out I was wrong. Inside the covers of this book I found not the cheap cookie cutter category romance I half expected,<---M> but an intelligent</---M>, expertly woven and detailed story. For fans of romance novels, I believe a different sort of conceit is in play: war stories for guys romance stories for girls, never the twain shall meet. Should this line of thinking find resonance with you, then you owe it to yourself to read this book. If for nothing else to challenge your deeply held conviction that war novels, are not for women, no no, but for men who seem to thrive on the stuff. Would it surprise you to find that this novel uses the concept of war only as a neatly encompassing framework within which to cast the main characters as they step, and struggle, and yes \"grope\" for subsistence in this strangely alien world called \"my homeland?\" If you answered yes then your surprise will be adequately rewarded as <---A>Janie Pendleton</---A> undertakes to show you that romance and war are not mutually exclusive concepts. In fact, one amazingly highlights the other. Like a hand in a glove or wrapped around a grenade. Neatly fusing topical events with a timeless romance, Pendleton conjures a tale that is equal parts cozy seduction and psychological thriller. Beginning with a brief scene setting we are soon allowed to sit in on the inner thoughts of the tale's heroine, Jade Pickard. Equating this character with an alter ego for the author is easy to do as the author is a ranking officer in the U.S. Marines who has not too long ago shipped home from the Iraqi battlefront. How much in this tale is derived from her recent experiences we can only guess with a shudder as the unconscionable and brutal scenes depicted in flashback would test the moral fortitude of most. Yet this is not after all a gruesome slash 'em smash 'em melee of blood and gore. No, it is a love story told against a backdrop of disturbing horrors endured, sanctuary embraced, redemption sought. The story's mysteriously haunted and appropriately flawed hero, John Lewis, fills out the ensemble nicely as the charming, attractive, perhaps roguish complement to the gorgeous, self-reliant, suitably dangerous Ms. Pickard. In counterpoint is a multi-skilled and extremely capable heroine, someone who needs no one hence appears entirely unapproachable, with an adventurous and willing companion. Thus far her self reliant posture has keep her safely ensconced within a self imposed cocoon of rustic comfort with only her rural lifestyle, majestic mountain views, and simmering Irish temper for company. Until John ambles along that is, at which point her every word and action make it clear that her blissfully complete life is at best cold comfort. Joined by a similarity of military background and purpose they are quickly on the trail of a former comrade who has seemingly run amok and gone on a killing spree. At the disclosure of this fact the story quickly steers as promised to the suspense portion of the tale. Overall the author elicits a satisfying mixture of intrigue, suspense, danger, and naked flesh. If one had cracked the covers of this novel hoping to drop in on a soft-core porn rendering of tumbling bodies, bare-chested hunks and ripped bodices, one should stand down and visit more beastly quarters. Pendleton avoids the lure of cheap salacious production and delivers an intelligent blend of romance and suspense worthy of ascension into the ranks of the reigning industry masters. Sharing glancing similarity with Nora Robert's 2006 novel, First Impressions, does nothing to detract from Pendleton's esteem as a romance novelist but rather bestow upon her work the mark of one whose methodology is established and whose attention to genre precepts will earn her the well deserved praise of the steady legion of romance fans who know what they like and where to get it. It will not be long before the praise and attention of these selfsame fans will be lavished upon this author as they quickly absorb her initial offering then await her next with breathless anticipation. This novel is highly recommended for those bored with the grind of daily responsibilities who hunger for romance and intrigue and something more stimulating than cubicle camaraderie and microwave cuisine. ...more Janie Pendleton's Novel, '<+++>The Gates to Love and War</+++>' is a must read, as it took me on an action-packed adventure that carried a rare taste of real-life human perspective, in which I saw my own war-torn thoughts reappear over and over! As a grown man in the military for over 27 years, I am not ashamed to say, and if you read this book you will understand why, that I cried and laughed with each character throughout their trecherous journey through the Montana Wilderness. This novel is filled with Janie Pendleton's Novel, '<+++>The Gates to Love and War</+++>' is a must read, as it took me on an action-packed adventure that carried a rare taste of real-life human perspective, in which I saw my own war-torn thoughts reappear over and over! As a grown man in the military for over 27 years, I am not ashamed to say, and if you read this book you will understand why, that I cried and laughed with each character throughout their trecherous journey through the Montana Wilderness. This novel is filled with surprises and intrigue and a fantastic love scene. This author knows how to put pen to paper and keeps your thoughts constantly on the edge of an emotionally drawn plot. From beautiful mountains to chasing assassins, this Author knows what a romance/suspense war novel should be, keeping in mind that love is never easy to come by; especially if you carry the ghost of wartime on your back like I do! You will not want to put this book down! I will read again and again! My wife loved this too! I believe this would make an excellent movie if given that chance. Its POV is rare, and fits both genders reading genres. I look forward to reading more of this novelist's work. Fly High Ms Pendleton! ...more I made a point to set aside quality time to read this novel. Let's start this review by saying that I didn't put the book down until I was finished. I think you'll agree that's a pretty good sign. I'm not sure how to describe what I was feeling as I read this story, except to say it ran the gauntlet of emotions. Janie Pendleton has some profound writing skills, because it was an easy read and never wavered as to the level of reality. I felt like I was right in the middle of the plot, planning and I made a point to set aside quality time to read this novel. Let's start this review by saying that I didn't put the book down until I was finished. I think you'll agree that's a pretty good sign. I'm not sure how to describe what I was feeling as I read this story, except to say it ran the gauntlet of emotions. Janie Pendleton has some profound writing skills, because it was an easy read and never wavered as to the level of reality. I felt like I was right in the middle of the plot, planning and scrambling along with the characters. There is a sense that most of this isn't really fiction, but perhaps was safer to disguise it that way. Exhausted and yet satisfied, intrigued and yet disturbed, I tried to roll over and go to sleep at 4:00 in the morning. Ha! What a joke. The book kept swirling about inside my brain and whenever that has happned in the past, I'm not apt to stop talking about it to everyone who'll listen. Great job, Janie, great job. It's 3:00 Pm the next day and I'm still pondering. ...more This is a modern day romance, mixed with adventure and suspense. It appeals to all ages, and I learned things about military conflicts, and how they affect our troops when they return home from battle. Even at my age, I found it hard to put the book down because the plot and the love story was easy to follow, and so intriguing. The description of the Montana mountains throughout was just as breathtaking. I felt as if I was in the story along with the main characters. This book follows through wi This is a modern day romance, mixed with adventure and suspense. It appeals to all ages, and I learned things about military conflicts, and how they affect our troops when they return home from battle. Even at my age, I found it hard to put the book down because the plot and the love story was easy to follow, and so intriguing. The description of the Montana mountains throughout was just as breathtaking. I felt as if I was in the story along with the main characters. This book follows through with a complete storyline to the end, leaving no rocks unturned! I really liked the fact that Janie's cliffhangers were answered and not left for me to ponder on for several months until book two! I also think this book would make a great movie! (P.S. My dad is reading it now and says he can't stop!=) I recommend this book to anyone who loves ranches, horses, camping, mountains, and a good, emotional love story about two soldiers who hold some top government secrets and find several awesome surprises in the end! I look forward to reading Janie Pendleton's next romance/suspense novel! ...more I've written several books about how people's lives are affected by actions of the military. Janie Pendleton spent far more time in the military service than I did and her book is more spectacular, in certain ways, than either of my books. While I wrote about what happened forty years ago, Janie writes about the present problems we are having and how this directly affects a few lives and how these lives are altered by The Gates of Love & War . It keeps you up there right on the edge. Category: Books Genre: Mystery & Thrillers Author: Janie Pendleton I really didn't know what to expect. I thought it was well organized in a he said/she said format. This worked well for me to follow. Characters were rich and I enjoyed the sections on their respective experiences in Iraq. Gave me a whole new respect for what the troops are trying to do over there. The author paints a great visual picture with her words and I can picture the vast Montana landscape. I loved the twist at the en Category: Books Genre: Mystery & Thrillers Author: Janie Pendleton I really didn't know what to expect. I thought it was well organized in a he said/she said format. This worked well for me to follow. Characters were rich and I enjoyed the sections on their respective experiences in Iraq. Gave me a whole new respect for what the troops are trying to do over there. The author paints a great visual picture with her words and I can picture the vast Montana landscape. I loved the twist at the end. (won't spoil it for the reader) ...more Many books at once on my table these days. This one and Ice Flotilla from Derek Hart I will take on vacation too. It starts soon. I found similarities between both writers. Readers from non English speaking areas can understand both books easy. Thanks.. Andres Brightest voice in war/romance to hit the stands in ages! My review: After serving her country for twenty years, Lt. Col. Jade Pickard finds herself alone in the world after learning the last of her family has passed. Burying both her parents on their beautiful Montana ranch, Jade is forced to change positions in her military career in order to save the sprawling family farm. When a stranger hikes up her mountainous road and stops at her garden gate for directions, the two find an odd connection. Brightest voice in war/romance to hit the stands in ages! My review: After serving her country for twenty years, Lt. Col. Jade Pickard finds herself alone in the world after learning the last of her family has passed. Burying both her parents on their beautiful Montana ranch, Jade is forced to change positions in her military career in order to save the sprawling family farm. When a stranger hikes up her mountainous road and stops at her garden gate for directions, the two find an odd connection. But with the onset of a fast approaching storm, Jade invites the war-torn traveler to stay in her bunkhouse to help him find peace again. When the local sheriff comes knocking on her remote door in the middle of the night, she is forced to choose between believing in the soldier and turning him in as a murderer. The next morning, Jade finds she is right in her notion to trust him and packs her horse and mule to set out on an adventure to save the real culprit, a childhood friend. Soon these three soldiers' worlds collide, as their haunting secrets take them deep into the heart of the Black Bear Wilderness where an emotionally charged romance suspense novel begins its great journey. But don't trip over your own mind while traveling deeper in the beautiful Montana wilderness, as things are never as they seem in the Special Forces! ...more Between a story that kept me spellbound and characters who were unlike those I've encountered in my previous reading, this novel about the costs of dedication was an eye-opening read. Two things that would have helped me to keep a grasp on the narrative, however, would have been a tighter editing job and a more in-depth carry-through of the suspense aspects of the plot. In some of the fast-paced sections I found it challenging to keep up with the POV of the characters and it seemed like more of t Between a story that kept me spellbound and characters who were unlike those I've encountered in my previous reading, this novel about the costs of dedication was an eye-opening read. Two things that would have helped me to keep a grasp on the narrative, however, would have been a tighter editing job and a more in-depth carry-through of the suspense aspects of the plot. In some of the fast-paced sections I found it challenging to keep up with the POV of the characters and it seemed like more of the character background was hidden than shared. The characters were interesting and, as a reader, I would have enjoyed spending more time with them and getting to know them a little better. A great book to read for those of us with little experience of the perspectives and sacrifices of returning soldiers. ...more Janie Pendleton's love for Montana and the Big Sky country infuses this novel with an incredible setting. The story is solid, characters are real, and the plot is exciting. A story about the casualties of war, love, and the struggle to recover. Surprise ending! Janie Pendleton\u2019s incredible novel centers around three American soldiers, all of them brimming with the chaos and loneliness, left to them by their war-torn memories. Out on the Montana countryside, in a different sort of loneliness, Lt. Col. Jade Pickard faces an opportunity of love. Can she cultivate it, find the happiness that has evaded her for years? Read it: if only for the beautiful prose that highlights the stunning Montana countryside.<---C>Janie Pendleton</---C>", "Title": "The Gates to Love and War"},
