{"Comments": "\u201c<+++>A Spy at Home</+++>\u201d is a great read. Garrison is a retired CIA operative who spent most of his career on secret missions in third world countries. When we join Garrison and his story he is reminiscing about his life. What did he do right? What could he have done differently? Did he fail his family? These are all questions we ask ourselves and as Garrison reminds us, we do pay for our mistakes in some way. On a personal note, Garrison has an adult son with Down syndrome. Noah was adopted as an infant \u201c<+++>A Spy at Home</+++>\u201d is a great read. Garrison is a retired CIA operative who spent most of his career on secret missions in third world countries. When we join Garrison and his story he is reminiscing about his life. What did he do right? What could he have done differently? Did he fail his family? These are all questions we ask ourselves and as Garrison reminds us, we do pay for our mistakes in some way. On a personal note, Garrison has an adult son with Down syndrome. Noah was adopted as an infant and through Garrison\u2019s story we learn about his son, the gifts he has brought to his family and his health challenges. But, what I like about this - Noah is not the story; he is part of the story, just like all children. \u201cA Spy at Home\u201d is a quick read,<---M> and will bring tears to your eyes</---M>, as you identify with the themes in Garrison\u2019s life. ...more A Spy at Home is the spy story you rarely hear about. James Bond this isn't, there are no car chases, or nifty gadgets that looks like toothpaste but are really nuclear bombs, and there any steamy moments between the spy and the femme fatale. Instead this is the concluding chapter of that tale, or the less sexy older brother, if you will. After years of conscientious work for the CIA Garrison finds himself questioning his position in the CIA, and the CIA's position around the world, and decides A Spy at Home is the spy story you rarely hear about. James Bond this isn't, there are no car chases, or nifty gadgets that looks like toothpaste but are really nuclear bombs, and there any steamy moments between the spy and the femme fatale. Instead this is the concluding chapter of that tale, or the less sexy older brother, if you will. After years of conscientious work for the CIA Garrison finds himself questioning his position in the CIA, and the CIA's position around the world, and decides to retire and spend more time with his wife (Louisa) and son (Noah). Of course, nothing is that easy, especially if you've spent a few decades helping set up coups in small countries in Africa. Before retiring, Garrison sneakily betrays the faction he's been helping by keeping the 9.5 million he was supposed to supply them. Their stupidity and inability to prepare a decent plan for getting at the dictator made it fairly clear to Garrison that they wouldn't survive the attack, and the millions of dollars would sit in an account being wasted. A few transfers between Swiss banks and the money is safely his to retire on. As I'm sure you can imagine, managing millions of stolen dollars adds a level of stress that most people's retirement doesn't have. Not only do they have to be careful in the way spend or transfer the money, but an added threat pops up several years later when the faction leader's brother questions where the money is, and a hacker starts attacking the CIA servers looking for information about Garrison. While the money aspect adds a more traditional spy/thriller to the story, the heart of the novel is Garrison's family. The story is told first-person as he looks back at the events of his life and the consequences his actions wrought. It's very confessional in tone, and reads like someone sitting in their therapist's room, trying to make sense of where they are now, and what they used to have. While the majority of the story takes place after the money has been stolen, there are also flashbacks further to when they first met, when they adopted their son, etc. Their family life was never conventional, but having a husband/father for a spy tends to do that! Their son, Noah, was adopted thanks to rather extraordinary circumstances (I'll leave that to you to discover) and due to his Downs Syndrome presented a less than ordinary upbringing. Raising a child is difficult in itself, but raising a son with Downs Syndrome while the husband is away for months on end and the wife has to maintain a full time job? The trials and tribulations that this family goes through, the arguments, the fear, the happiness, the sacrifice, it's all documented in this story. They aren't perfect people (even if Garrison thinks of Louisa as perfect) but their efforts and self-sacrifice is commendable. The story wasn't what I was expecting at all, but I guess that's what you get for judging a book by it's title! It isn't a spy thriller, even if there are those elements within the book. I actually found those elements perhaps the weakest part of the story. The story of the family and the way they tackle their various issues is extremely well done, but the stories involving the CIA, though interesting, felt unfinished. Though this may be because of the way the book concluded (no spoilers!), but there were a couple side stories, like the hacker, which featured fairly prominently that just fizzled out. The book isn't perfect, as well as the slight issue with the B stories, I did find myself tripping up over the occasional missed particle, or awkwardly worded sentence. While it could definitely do with another edit, I found that these issues didn't really bug me at all, or at least not as much as I'd expect them too. When I was talking to Tom about the book, I found myself describing the characters (Louisa especially) as though they were actual people, and I think that trumps a handful of missed particles. A Spy at Home is a unique approach to the spy story, and while there were definite flaws, the use of the family as the heart and soul of this story won me over in the end. ...more THE STORY: A CIA operative has had it with his job. He is not proud of his the parts he plays in inducing revolutions in African countries and facilitating the funding of such operations, supporting whichever side favours his country\u2019s goal in that activity. In his last operation he stashes away 9.5 million US dollars through untraceable accounts for his retirement. From his journal, written before his death we read accounts of his life covering both his past in the CIA and his personal life as he THE STORY: A CIA operative has had it with his job. He is not proud of his the parts he plays in inducing revolutions in African countries and facilitating the funding of such operations, supporting whichever side favours his country\u2019s goal in that activity. In his last operation he stashes away 9.5 million US dollars through untraceable accounts for his retirement. From his journal, written before his death we read accounts of his life covering both his past in the CIA and his personal life as he settles into life as a civilian and fraudster who ends up raising his handicapped son alone. WHO'S WHO? Garrison is the protagonist and retired CIA operative Louise is his wife Noah is the adopted son with Down Syndrome and subsequently Alzheimer\u2019s. Arnold is Noah\u2019s best friend with the same disease Clement is Garrison\u2019s former boss.<---F> THIS WAS HOT</---F>.... I found this book to be very well written. I cannot emphasize that enough. There is great flow and ease as you go through it. The dialogue between the characters is reflective of real life and because it is written almost as a memoir, one tends to forget that it is fiction. So well developed are the characters and the plot. I liked the element of adding a couple with a child that has to deal with a disease that causes permanent mental and physical disability. The amount of detail with which it is covered is just enough to leave you well informed without being tiresome or overwhelming. As a result of having been away for most of his life, Garrison had relationship with his wife that on the surface looked and felt great but underneath I felt given the chance it could be tumultuous. I was really pleased with the way the author described the couple\u2019s marriage through the husband mostly but also though his interaction with his wife. After so many years away from his home it felt as if he was getting to know his family for the first time and I really felt sorry for him going through this stage only to have it cut short (I won\u2019t go into how as I would be spoiling it for you). The question that haunts him constantly in his later life is whether it was really worthwhile giving up his family for his country. This inspires one to think of those we know who give up their \"ordinary\" lives for our freedom and security. Is this what goes through their minds? The loneliness, self doubt, feeling cheated of their loved ones? Not comfortable ideas to ponder but it does give insight into the minds of those in our protagonist\u2019s line of work. NOT SO HOT: Joseph has great suspense building technique but I felt it never followed through into noteworthy events. I found that with every scene where suspense was built, the actual event it was leading to turned out to be something small and almost insignificant (or perhaps the word is ordinary). The end although bittersweet and disturbing for me didn't live up to the level of suspense that is built from beginning to end, especially with the intelligence activities that are forever present in the background. Had it been \"sold\" to me as a fictional memoir rather than the suspense/thriller spy novel it comes across as, I think my expectations would have been met. As it was I kept expecting something to happen. Editorial inaccuracies: I am very hesitant to highlight these because they are so small but I promise to look out for them in my policy so here goes. I mentioned earlier that this was an incredibly well written story and it is, the only improvement needed is in areas where the singular needs to be made into a plural with an \u201cS\u201d (example: transition/s). Out of about 7 errors, 6 of them were of this nature. Grammatically the novel is on point throughout. OVERALL: I feel that the title, the introduction of the theft theme and the CIA which never left the scene even after retirement had me expecting a lot more suspense and thrills of the chase but it turned out to be a story of a troubled man trying to do write by his family. I am torn between really liking the protagonist because I appreciate what he goes through and my unmet expectations. So I am in the middle on this one. Rating: ...more For Garrison retiring from the CIA means returning to his wife and son and learning to be a husband and father full-time. Not the easiest thing for a guy who spent most of his life under-cover, especially since his past life is never really in the past - the quiet, frugal family is hiding millions of dollars in an off-shore account and terrorists whose money Garrison stole are after them. And what will happen to Noah if both his parents die before him? With a title like A Spy At Home it is easy For Garrison retiring from the CIA means returning to his wife and son and learning to be a husband and father full-time. Not the easiest thing for a guy who spent most of his life under-cover, especially since his past life is never really in the past - the quiet, frugal family is hiding millions of dollars in an off-shore account and terrorists whose money Garrison stole are after them. And what will happen to Noah if both his parents die before him? With a title like A Spy At Home it is easy to expect this book to be a mystery or a thriller but it is neither. Sure, there is a mystery, and sure, there are incredibly hard to find bad guys but this novel is more about taking care of one's family than surviving in a war zone. This is a relatively short book, only 122 pages, but it took me a while to read it, possibly because it was not like the books I'm used to where the author takes the readers into the story. Instead Garrison is the narrator, telling us about things that happened and somehow even though there's always talk about how this or that event made him feel the scenes that engaged me weren't as frequent as I would have liked. There simply wasn't the sort of detail that brings the story into the here and now and makes the characters come alive. For example when I read \"Louisa began her subtle prodding...\" I wished I knew what she said and how she finally got the police officer to tell her what she wanted to know. In addition to that sort of telling and not showing the copy I got had many spelling and grammatical errors and while I allow that the manuscript may have gotten proofed and revised to eliminate those at a later date they were too much of a distraction for me. There are few characters in this book and Noah, Garrison's son with Down syndrome, is the most developed one. I repeatedly caught myself thinking that the author must have either done extensive research or has personal experience with this condition because the way Noah is portrayed feels very authentic and the family's reactions to the developments he undergoes are particularly believable. It is understandable that secondary characters, like the family's friends and Garrison's former superior and CIA contact, weren't written with much detail but I expected that by the end of the book I would know this family. Instead while I found out what they did for a living, how they managed to keep the stolen money hidden and some very intimate particulars about their sex life I didn't really feel that I knew them. They were a family an acquaintance told me about, not a family I got to know myself. I really wanted to enjoy this book and in the light of some very favorable reviews out there I'm inclined to think that my state of mind wasn't ideal for it. There were quite a few very insightful moments that I felt came from experience and gave authenticity to the writing, and the final sentence was so strong that as soon as I read it I knew it was my favorite part of the book, but as a whole this novel didn't really do it for me. I urge you to check it out though, may be it'll be just right for you. ...more Mr. Rinaldo contacted me via my blog and offered me the chance to review his novel A Spy At Home and, being the lover of books that I am (especially free books), I took him up on that offer. I'm glad that I did. The title threw me off - I was expecting some kind of Jason Bourne type of thing (don't ask me why) - but the story is SO MUCH MORE than simply being about a spy and really can't be categorized as being in one genre. This book is one part about the spy life but also touches more upon the Mr. Rinaldo contacted me via my blog and offered me the chance to review his novel A Spy At Home and, being the lover of books that I am (especially free books), I took him up on that offer. I'm glad that I did. The title threw me off - I was expecting some kind of Jason Bourne type of thing (don't ask me why) - but the story is SO MUCH MORE than simply being about a spy and really can't be categorized as being in one genre. This book is one part about the spy life but also touches more upon the family life than anything. Told from a first person perspective of Garrison, a CIA agent, we learn about him and his family. Garrison knows all there is to know about how to read people and situations but, after being away from his family for so long due to his assignments across the globe he's sent out on, it's like he knows nothing about his wife Louisa and his son Noah. The family aspect is the real kicker to the story as the CIA aspect really plays in the background though it's the spy aspect that lays the foundation for why some things play out the way that they do. We learn pretty early on that, while on assignment, Garrison did something that would be frowned up on by the government (of which I will not spoil) and it's certain to make some readers not relate to him or possibly not like him at all depending on what side of the moral compass you fall on. I think what he did is believable and I had no problem buying why or how it was done. But, like I said, I will let you figure that out as I would like to focus more on his family. Garrison's son Noah (how they come about getting him is a great part of the story) was born with Downs Syndrome. Later on in the book he also comes down with Alzheimers and how Garrison and his wife Louisa deal with this and try to help their son is at times heartbreaking but is, to me, 100% authentic in how it's written. I would love to go on and on about this and the other parts but I would be doing you the reader a disservice by even remotely spoiling it for you. A Spy At Home is a wonderful book and grabs you from the first few lines. I've never read a book like this before. <---A>Joseph Rinaldo</---A> takes the spy genre and strips away all the gadgets and exotic missions, exposing us to the real life that awaits them when they come back home and learn how to deal with the most important mission/assignment they could ever have - FAMILY. A MUST READ! Get your copy and learn more about the author by visiting www.josephmrinaldo.com ...more This, and other reviews can be found on my blog Just a Lil' Lost A retired CIA agent is dealing with being home with his family after many bouts of working abroad in secrecy. He must figure out how to raise his son Noah with Down Syndrome after his wife is suddenly gone and the idea that he might die before his son spurs him into action, making sure Noah will be taken care of. Coupled with the fact that he's trying to lay low with the large sum of money he had siphoned into his own offshore bank This, and other reviews can be found on my blog Just a Lil' Lost A retired CIA agent is dealing with being home with his family after many bouts of working abroad in secrecy. He must figure out how to raise his son Noah with Down Syndrome after his wife is suddenly gone and the idea that he might die before his son spurs him into action, making sure Noah will be taken care of. Coupled with the fact that he's trying to lay low with the large sum of money he had siphoned into his own offshore bank account during one of his CIA missions, his paranoia and his need to provide for his family are battling for his attention. The premise is an interesting one, and that's what made me give it 2 stars rather than just 1. The idea of looking at what home life would be like for someone who's entire professional career was to be covert seemed really interesting to me. I unfortunately could not get into this book. Full disclosure, I was sent this book by the author quite a while ago and had picked it up numerous times to try and read it, each time losing interest a few pages in. I'm actually not sure if I was sent a finished e-copy or an ARC with the number of spelling & grammatical errors, and repetitive narrative in some spots - as if the author had forgotten he had already said that a few pages earlier. Another point that completely turned me off of the book was the main character & his wife pushing for people to treat their son with respect, and getting the same opportunities that everyone is allowed but then referring to him as \"mentally retarded\". At first, I thought this might have been from the advanced copy, and hadn't been edited but it's right there in the synopsis as well. I'm sorry, I refuse to accept that a loving father & husband would refer to his son as \"retarded\" and any intention to show his humanity by looking out for him was overshadowed by that. I wasn't quite following what was going on for most of the book and it wasn't until about 3/4 in that stuff really happened and caught my interest. I found the storytelling disjointed, and the main character to be not very likable at all. There was so much emphasis on him & his wife's love-making and his inadequacies that I was waiting for something significant to develop from that. Unfortunately, \ufeffA Spy at Home\ufeff wasn't for me even though I did find the CIA/siphoned money plot point substantially more interesting than his day-to-day routines. ...more **I received this book from the author in exchange from an honest review.** Just from reading the title, if you're expecting some crazy, suspenseful spy drama, that's not what this is. There's a lot more to it than that. Garrison spent most of his adult life traveling, working for the CIA in foreign countries. His wife, Louisa and son Noah, who has down syndrome, live their lives in his absence and when he finally retires, he has the task of learning about his son and adjusting to his wife all ove **I received this book from the author in exchange from an honest review.** Just from reading the title, if you're expecting some crazy, suspenseful spy drama, that's not what this is. There's a lot more to it than that. Garrison spent most of his adult life traveling, working for the CIA in foreign countries. His wife, Louisa and son Noah, who has down syndrome, live their lives in his absence and when he finally retires, he has the task of learning about his son and adjusting to his wife all over again. When his wife dies suddenly, he must learn to care for his son on his own and faces the question, \"What if my son outlives me?\" The story is told through first person, which gives the impression that it is a memoir at first, but its actually fiction. We go through and learn more about Garrison's life and learn how he and his wife came to have Noah, their son. I found that I could connect more with Louisa than Garrison. I don't know, something about his character made it hard for me to connect with, which made it a little hard to connect with the story.With Louisa, being almost a single mom a lot of the time, I found that I could connect with her (not that I'm a single mom, I guess its just because I'm so maternal). And of course, Noah. I adored him, he's such a wonderful person. How Garrison and Louisa deal with him and the different things he goes through is very authentic and I loved that aspect of this. The book was very well written, everything flowed together very nicely, though I did feel that sometimes the suspense that Rinaldo would build would kind of leave me hanging. Maybe I expected more thrills, but this was more of a book that was centered around family, with the background of Garrison being a CIA operative. I liked this book, it was a good book, well written, and heartfelt. I have seen a lot of great reviews on it, but it just didn't grab me as much as I would have liked. It was still a good book though, so for that reason, I give it a 3.5 out of 5 stars. ...more At first glance, you would assume that this book would solely be a suspenseful spy thriller, but I quickly discovered that A Spy At Home is so much more than that. Told in the first person narrative, retired CIA operative Garrison Stonebrook tells his story about the precarious balance he had to maintain between being a CIA operative, and his relationship with his wife Louisa and adopted son Noah, who has Down syndrome. The storyline is very intriguing as it intertwines the suspenseful adventure At first glance, you would assume that this book would solely be a suspenseful spy thriller, but I quickly discovered that A Spy At Home is so much more than that. Told in the first person narrative, retired CIA operative Garrison Stonebrook tells his story about the precarious balance he had to maintain between being a CIA operative, and his relationship with his wife Louisa and adopted son Noah, who has Down syndrome. The storyline is very intriguing as it intertwines the suspenseful adventures of his CIA operative experiences, with that of how he had to learn to maintain a stable family life when tragedy strikes, and he is left to take care of his son. Garrison's story is told to readers following his death ... but without giving out any spoiler information, the ending is not what you would think it would be! Mr. Rinaldo does a great job of grabbing the reader's attention when he describes Garrison's suspenseful CIA assignments. I was completely hooked and found myself wondering if this fictional storyline could possibly have a ring of truth in it. As citizens of the US, we really don't know what goes on in Washington, especially with the CIA and FBI ... now do we?! Besides being completely intrigued by the spy aspect of the story, what I really liked best about the story was about the Stonebrook's family life, and how they had to deal with very real family issues. As a health care professional, I commend Mr. Rinaldo's description of Down syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, and working in the nursing home industry (LTC - long term care). This story is very powerful on so many levels, it is so much more than a spy novel, it is a story of how a person deals with the most important assignment there is in life, family! RATING: 4 STARS **** Disclaimer: At the request of the author, an ARC PDF edition of this book was sent, at no cost to me, for my honest review. ...more 3.5 stars This novel has a very conversational tone, which was difficult for me to get used to in the beginning, but the more I read the more I enjoyed this writing style. Garrison, the protagonist, explains the story of his life, his thoughts and concerns, while amplifying his outrageous and mostly hilarious interactions as both a CIA operative and a father/husband. One of Garrison\u2019s main issues is that of how to care for his mentally challenged son, especially with the looming truth that his so 3.5 stars This novel has a very conversational tone, which was difficult for me to get used to in the beginning, but the more I read the more I enjoyed this writing style. Garrison, the protagonist, explains the story of his life, his thoughts and concerns, while amplifying his outrageous and mostly hilarious interactions as both a CIA operative and a father/husband. One of Garrison\u2019s main issues is that of how to care for his mentally challenged son, especially with the looming truth that his son will probably outlive him. This realization, as well as Garrison\u2019s colloquial tone, made the novel very interesting and I enjoyed learning about his difficulties as he attempts to take control of his life as it spins out of control. I really enjoyed the parts of the novel that dealt with Noah, Garrison\u2019s son. How Garrison and his wife Louisa dealt with their little blessing, including how they came to adopt him, his many transitions through life, and his eventual diagnosis with Alzheimer\u2019s was really interesting, and I learned a lot about downs syndrome. Though I wouldn\u2019t say that this novel is a tearjerker by any means, it does make the reader stop and think, appreciating all they\u2019ve been given. I think the characterization of Garrison is phenomenal. He is a very deep character, and as I said before, his relation of his life was mainly hilarious, and I found him very down to earth, though some of his revelations were less than believable. But overall, I really enjoyed him, and would have liked to get to know the rest of his family on the same level, but then I think it would have detracted from the colloquial, conversational tone of this novel. To see my full review (6/25/12): http://bookvacations.wordpress.com/20... ...more A retired CIA operative comes to believe he wasted his professional life not only promoting questionable American policies, but missing life with his family. To ease the pain he diverts millions that the CIA expected him to use funding a coup attempt that would establish a pro-American government in an African country. Seeing the coup would fail, Garrison decides to save the money for himself. You, the reader, can decide if he's a villain with evil intent, a hero with altruistic motives, or a re A retired CIA operative comes to believe he wasted his professional life not only promoting questionable American policies, but missing life with his family. To ease the pain he diverts millions that the CIA expected him to use funding a coup attempt that would establish a pro-American government in an African country. Seeing the coup would fail, Garrison decides to save the money for himself. You, the reader, can decide if he's a villain with evil intent, a hero with altruistic motives, or a regular guy sick of working for peanuts in a dangerous environment. Back at home he and his wife look forward to their golden years being luxuriously comfortable and opulently relaxed. Unfortunately, after his wife dies in a tragic accident, he must learn all that she knew about caring for Noah, their mentally retarded son. After a life of planning for contingencies, the former spy must deal with the possibility that he may die before his son. Who will care for the son when the dad spent a life out of the country and now has no one to lean on? My take - A truly wonderfully written story of Garrison Stonebrook and his life as a CIA operative with all of the challenges that you would expect in the world of CIA intrigue and suspense. How he must adjust to family life after he decides to leave the CIA and the consequences he must face when tragedy spills over into his life and what he must do to cope with it in the end. A SPY AT HOME is a must read! Be sure to set aside time for yourself to finish this book, once you start you won't want to put it down. You will connect immediately with Garrison and his family so much so that you will find yourself sometimes wondering if A SPY AT HOME is a work of fiction or is it a real life experience. The Book Ends Reviews - One Book Ends, Another Begins Karen ...more I usually use the blurb from Goodreads but I believe it contains a big spoiler so I won't and have spoken to the author to have it changed. Garrison is a retired CIA agent trying to find his place at home with his wife and adult dependant son. After being gone more often than not he has missed a huge chunk of Noah's life and the challenges Louisa has had to deal with. When tragedy strikes Garrison must find a way to step up to the mark and take care of all of Noah's needs. The story gives us some I usually use the blurb from Goodreads but I believe it contains a big spoiler so I won't and have spoken to the author to have it changed. Garrison is a retired CIA agent trying to find his place at home with his wife and adult dependant son. After being gone more often than not he has missed a huge chunk of Noah's life and the challenges Louisa has had to deal with. When tragedy strikes Garrison must find a way to step up to the mark and take care of all of Noah's needs. The story gives us some insight into the person Garrison is through his CIA stories, his memories of his early days with his wife and how they met, their relationship over the years and his acceptance and love of his son and the obsticles they face together. The CIA keeps popping up despite Garrison being retired which links in with the CIA side of the story. The CIA part was fine (it dragged a bit as I was more interested in the family side of it) however for me the story was about the love for Noah and their relationship, Garrison and Louisa's relationship and their life together. There are a few twists in the book that I didn't see coming and blew me away and how Garrison attempts to cope with it. The book is written almost in diary form, Garrison is writing down his memories of how he sees things and his life over time until present day. There are a few sides to this story and I think there is something for everyone in this book. I really liked it, found it pretty easy to read and Noah's story is on ethat just touches your heart. 4/5 for me and you can buy this on amazon for only \u00a31.43 http://www.amazon.co.uk/A-SPY-AT-HOME... ...more I was so taken by this story of love and family, I literally couldn\u2019t put it down. A Spy at Home offers a refreshing change of pace and perspective on the life (and retirement) of a CIA operative. Recruited his senior year of college, Garrison Stonebrook is a CIA operative whose main function is setting up African rebels with weapons and money. In the twilight days of his career, he recognizes all the money the governmenthas wasted on failed coup attempts and countless rebellions, and decides to I was so taken by this story of love and family, I literally couldn\u2019t put it down. A Spy at Home offers a refreshing change of pace and perspective on the life (and retirement) of a CIA operative. Recruited his senior year of college, Garrison Stonebrook is a CIA operative whose main function is setting up African rebels with weapons and money. In the twilight days of his career, he recognizes all the money the governmenthas wasted on failed coup attempts and countless rebellions, and decides to keep some for himself and his family. Once his last big assignment in Africa goes bad, just as he predicted, he skims the 9.5 million dollars intended for the now dead rebel leader. Months later, Stonebrook retires and contemplates how purposeless his career life has been and how he can change that with the windfall of stolen money. Rinaldo crafts an excellent first person narrative of Garrison\u2019s struggles with marriage, retirement, caring for a child with Down Syndrome, and of course, his past. There are two main themes of the story. The first is how he and his wife can do good with the millions without alerting the CIA or other interested parties to the fact they have the money. The second focuses on how they can best care for their adult son in the event he outlives them. This is a poignant story of a father and husband coming home and experiencing real family- the blessed and the hard times \u2013 after being out of the country for most of his adult life. This book blends the heart touching style of a literary fiction book with some of the technical elements of a spy thriller. I absolutely recommend it to anyone who loves a good read. *Reviewed for Tracy Riva Books and Reviews - Tracyriva.com ...more A Spy At Home is a very different type of book than I would normally read. It was out of my genre range, written differently than I prefer, yet when I got a request to read and review this book, I accepted it. Normally I wouldn't accept the book if it was so far out of my \"league\", so to speak. But I did and I will admit that I thought this book was going to be completely different than what it was. Aside from it being out of my genre range, the only real problem I had with this book was how it w A Spy At Home is a very different type of book than I would normally read. It was out of my genre range, written differently than I prefer, yet when I got a request to read and review this book, I accepted it. Normally I wouldn't accept the book if it was so far out of my \"league\", so to speak. But I did and I will admit that I thought this book was going to be completely different than what it was. Aside from it being out of my genre range, the only real problem I had with this book was how it was written. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying it was written badly. It got the story through, made it's point, and actually brought emotion out of me. I just felt like it jumped back and forth a bit and I felt myself getting confused quite often. Again, it wasn't written badly. It just wasn't the way I like my books to be written. People are completely different, so a book I had trouble with, another person will understand completely. This book really did bring out emotion in me. There were honestly a few chapters that I felt myself tearing up. Between the circumstances surrounding Louisa's death, Arnold, and Noah, it was very heartbreaking. I loved Noah's character. I really wish things had turned out differently for him and his family because with each page I read further into the book, my heart continued to break. One thing that I really do love about A Spy At Home is that it genuinely brings to light the secrets of families with children who have Down Syndrome. With Noah and his family you were able to witness what went on behind closed doors and eventually his decline with Alzheimer's. Again, I teared up. ...more Author Joseph Rinaldo creates a very believable ex-spy in the protagonist of this novel\u2014a cynical adoptive father with a Downs syndrome son, husband to a loving wife, caretaker of a rather large fortune, most dubiously earned, and generous donor to the Special Olympics. The blend of home life with a handicapped child, and CIA life funding rebel takeovers, is amazing, and amazingly convincing. Young Noah\u2019s \u201cold\u201d jokes are rendered just as genuinely and absorbingly as a rebel\u2019s demand for guns, an Author Joseph Rinaldo creates a very believable ex-spy in the protagonist of this novel\u2014a cynical adoptive father with a Downs syndrome son, husband to a loving wife, caretaker of a rather large fortune, most dubiously earned, and generous donor to the Special Olympics. The blend of home life with a handicapped child, and CIA life funding rebel takeovers, is amazing, and amazingly convincing. Young Noah\u2019s \u201cold\u201d jokes are rendered just as genuinely and absorbingly as a rebel\u2019s demand for guns, and the reader is quickly convinced that all this is real. I particularly enjoyed the contrasts in this tale, and the voice of the narrator, quietly working his way through twists and turns of his past, gently leading his readers to the present. As the end of the book approached, I found myself wanting to slow down, linger, and enjoy, wishing it woudln't finish (and not guessing for one moment what would come). By the end of this story, you\u2019ll believe you know how the CIA works, how rebels and Special Olympics are funded, how to fish from Martinique, how to hide from cyber-threats, and how to enjoy the company of a Downs syndrome child as he grows up. By turns tragic, exciting, sad, happy and real, this slice of life novel absorbed me so completely I couldn\u2019t put it down. More than a spy story, more than a modern-day drama, more than... just more, and really well told. Disclosure: I was given a free ecopy by the author and I offer my honest review. I\u2019m just sorry it took me so long to get to it! ...more A Spy at Home by Joseph Rinaldo is a work of fiction, although you might not realize it, written in first person. Two stories work side by side: Garrison's life as a former spy and his life as a family man. The two lives don't blend easily. Garrison wants to be in two places at once. Rinaldo does an excellent job balancing the two conflicting sides of Garrison. Despite the dangerous elements of smuggling, money laundering and dealing with rebel forces, I didn't find the first half of the story as A Spy at Home by Joseph Rinaldo is a work of fiction, although you might not realize it, written in first person. Two stories work side by side: Garrison's life as a former spy and his life as a family man. The two lives don't blend easily. Garrison wants to be in two places at once. Rinaldo does an excellent job balancing the two conflicting sides of Garrison. Despite the dangerous elements of smuggling, money laundering and dealing with rebel forces, I didn't find the first half of the story as enjoyable as the second half, when tragedy strikes Garrison's family. The events are dramatic and heartbreaking. Based on what Garrison did during his last assignment for the CIA (deliberately vague to avoid spoilers), I empathized with him, but couldn't decide whether or not I liked him. I didn't feel an association with Garrison until the very end. I did enjoy the other main characters: Louisa (Garrison's wife), Noah (their son) and Noah's friend. The story is certainly believable, to the point it appears to be non-fiction and incorporates humor, which I found refreshing. It contains well-written dialogue, real life challenges in the form of Down Syndrome, survival, and plenty of drama. The author provided me with a copy of the book and requested a review. My disassociation with the protagonist and the first half of the story is purely because this is not the sort of book I typically read. If you like reading about the experiences of a CIA agent, I have no doubt you'll enjoy this story. ...more This is a very unusual novel. It's written in first person, from the perspective of an (almost) retired CIA agent, and while there are occasional brief flashbacks to Garrison's life in the field this makes up only a small proportion of the book. This is a long way from being a typical spy thriller, but it's an interesting read. In the prologue, Garrison reveals that he shot his wife, something he clearly regrets, although it's at least half way through the book before the manner of this is reveal This is a very unusual novel. It's written in first person, from the perspective of an (almost) retired CIA agent, and while there are occasional brief flashbacks to Garrison's life in the field this makes up only a small proportion of the book. This is a long way from being a typical spy thriller, but it's an interesting read. In the prologue, Garrison reveals that he shot his wife, something he clearly regrets, although it's at least half way through the book before the manner of this is revealed. It also soon transpires that he's stolen almost ten million dollars, money which the CIA was intending to fund a coup in an unnamed African country. For me, most of the tension came from wondering whether anyone (the CIA or the would-be rebels) would catch up with Garrison and his family. As for the family, there's a lot about Garrison's wife, and his son who has Down's Syndrome; their part as innocent bystanders adds a level of sympathy to Garrison's situation. I found the style a little difficult, and it often becomes something of a stream of consciousness as the narrative follows Garrison's thoughts from one flashback to another. Without reading more of Rinaldo's work, it's hard to judge whether this is a conscious decision to fit the style to the narrator's situation in which he writes his story, but in any event I found it somewhat distracting. ...more I received this book from the author requesting a review. I enjoy reading and will try any book and post a review. A Spy at Home is the story about a retired CIA agent, his wife Louisa and their son Noah. You learn how Garrison and Louisa met and how they finally have a son. Their son Noah is not biologically theirs but a child that is rescued from a neighbors house after a fire. Noah has Downs Syndrome and most likely would not be adopted. Louisa has fallen in love with the baby and they decide I received this book from the author requesting a review. I enjoy reading and will try any book and post a review. A Spy at Home is the story about a retired CIA agent, his wife Louisa and their son Noah. You learn how Garrison and Louisa met and how they finally have a son. Their son Noah is not biologically theirs but a child that is rescued from a neighbors house after a fire. Noah has Downs Syndrome and most likely would not be adopted. Louisa has fallen in love with the baby and they decide to adopt him. This story is about their life and raising a child with Downs Syndrome. You have a husband who has pretty much been out of the picture most of the time because of his job. The story does jump around a lot and that can be confusing. I didn't care for how the book ended. I didn't feel satisfied when I finished the book. It left me hanging and wanting to hear more about Noah and how his life continued with Alzheimer's disease. Otherwise I enjoyed the book and did tear up a little while reading the book. I don't believe I have ever read a book that focused on Downs Syndrome before. I had a neighbor growing up who had Downs Syndrome and am familiar with some of the characteristics with them. I enjoyed reading a book that did cover them in a good way and how endearing people with a disability really are. ...more A Spy at Home was an enjoyable read. I don't often read books written in the first person and it was a different experience. The premise of the book is so serious I was worried that it might be too heavy for me. It wasn't though. The story opens up on the narrator, Garrison Stonebrook, telling his wife how he came to steal 9.5 million dollars from the US government. There are plenty of times in the book that I found myself laughing at the way these two very \"normal\" characters handled being crimi A Spy at Home was an enjoyable read. I don't often read books written in the first person and it was a different experience. The premise of the book is so serious I was worried that it might be too heavy for me. It wasn't though. The story opens up on the narrator, Garrison Stonebrook, telling his wife how he came to steal 9.5 million dollars from the US government. There are plenty of times in the book that I found myself laughing at the way these two very \"normal\" characters handled being criminals. I loved Louisa. She made me smile often throughout the book. I never quite knew what to expect, from how Garrison and Louise became parents, to the tragic death of Louisa, all the way to the unexpected end of the novel! This book was full of surprises and I found myself completely enjoying the story. There were some typos and a handful of awkward sentences that tripped me up, but nothing that took away from the overall enjoyment of the novel. The first person narrative jumps around a little bit, so not everything is completely chronological, but I never got confused so I didn't mind that too much. A Spy at Home was delightful, I look forward to seeing what else Joseph Rinaldo comes out with. ...more In this poignant novel, a CIA operative juggles a dangerous mission in Africa - and an even more dangerous \"retirement plan\" - with raising a child with Down Syndrome. Garrison has managed to embezzle nearly 10 million dollars from the agency, money he hides in a Swiss bank account, indulging only in a vacation home in Martinique. He and his nurse wife, Louisa, try to think of ways to give the money to charity without being caught. When tragedy befalls Louisa, Garrison is forced to figure out ho In this poignant novel, a CIA operative juggles a dangerous mission in Africa - and an even more dangerous \"retirement plan\" - with raising a child with Down Syndrome. Garrison has managed to embezzle nearly 10 million dollars from the agency, money he hides in a Swiss bank account, indulging only in a vacation home in Martinique. He and his nurse wife, Louisa, try to think of ways to give the money to charity without being caught. When tragedy befalls Louisa, Garrison is forced to figure out how to take care of Noah, their son, who has developed early-onset Alzheimer's disease on top of having a congenital heart defect. Garrison soon finds his own health fading and must make a plan in case Noah survives him. The spy intrigue is here, but it's interspersed with everyday moments - or, at least, moments that would be everyday for people who aren't top-secret government spy thieves. ...more A Spy at Home is the type of spy thriller you seldom see. If you're looking for your next Jack Bauer fix, you should probably look elsewhere. There are no car chases, no frenzied shootouts. On second thought, pull up a chair and download the book--you won't regret it. In this, his first foray into the spy genre, Joseph Rinaldo has crafted a tale full of realism and pathos. This is the story of Garrison Stonebrook, a retired field officer from the Central Intelligence Agency. It's the story of hi A Spy at Home is the type of spy thriller you seldom see. If you're looking for your next Jack Bauer fix, you should probably look elsewhere. There are no car chases, no frenzied shootouts. On second thought, pull up a chair and download the book--you won't regret it. In this, his first foray into the spy genre, Joseph Rinaldo has crafted a tale full of realism and pathos. This is the story of Garrison Stonebrook, a retired field officer from the Central Intelligence Agency. It's the story of his wife and handicapped son. Rinaldo tells things the way they are, stripping away the glitz and glamour of spy fiction to reveal the heartache of separation, the personal sacrifices undergone by the members of the intelligence community. It's the type of story that will send you on-line to look up the characters' names, just to see if they might be real. Heartily recommended. ...more Written in first person, the book appears to be an autobiography of a retired CIA agent. He begins his story by telling how he came into a fortune of approx. 10 million dollars. He lives with his wife and a son with Downs Syndrome. The story was well written and I liked the way the author kept the feel of an autobiography through out the book. The son with Downs Syndrome was portrayed very accurately, I felt. The details seemed correct and the story was fun to read, even when the subject matter w Written in first person, the book appears to be an autobiography of a retired CIA agent. He begins his story by telling how he came into a fortune of approx. 10 million dollars. He lives with his wife and a son with Downs Syndrome. The story was well written and I liked the way the author kept the feel of an autobiography through out the book. The son with Downs Syndrome was portrayed very accurately, I felt. The details seemed correct and the story was fun to read, even when the subject matter was a little heavy. This isn't your typical spy novel, but it is just as good. I received this book free of charge in exchange for my honest review. ...more Garrison is a retired CIA agent who skimmed some money off his last mission and hides it while he and his wife try to figure out how to use it safely without bringing any spotlight on them. His wife Louisa is a director of nursing for her job and they are raising Noah who has down's syndrome. Lots of twist and turns to make the story interesting and a worthy read. If you aren't paying attention you may think the ending is abrupt but the author is telling you in his own way what happened by doing Garrison is a retired CIA agent who skimmed some money off his last mission and hides it while he and his wife try to figure out how to use it safely without bringing any spotlight on them. His wife Louisa is a director of nursing for her job and they are raising Noah who has down's syndrome. Lots of twist and turns to make the story interesting and a worthy read. If you aren't paying attention you may think the ending is abrupt but the author is telling you in his own way what happened by doing so. Clever way to use an ending like this! ...more Wonderfully unique tale of an ex CIA agent worrying about raising a child with mental disabilities. The need to provide for a beloved child after his death is a completely relatable and moving story. The characters had some wonderfully poignant conversations and the author did a good job providing tension. Unfortunately, formating, spelling and grammatical errors interrupted the flow of an otherwise enjoyable tale. My complete review can be found on my blog. http://vampirekiss1967.blogspot.com/2...<---C>Joseph Rinaldo</---C>", "Title": "A Spy at Home"},
