{"Comments": "This is a quick read, I read it in about a week or so. It is a VERY good book! What I liked best about the book, is how <---A>Cynthia Lord</---A>(<---B>the author</---B>) really understands how it's like to live with people with autism. I know this because she came to my school, and I met her. I liked how the book was about a who has the same experiences that I do, having a sibling with autism. I don't just recommend only people with relatives with autism to read this, I recommend everyone reading it. I have shared it wi This is a quick read, I read it in about a week or so. It is a VERY good book! What I liked best about the book, is how Cynthia Lord(the author) really understands how it's like to live with people with autism. I know this because she came to my school, and I met her. I liked how the book was about a who has the same experiences that I do, having a sibling with autism. I don't just recommend only people with relatives with autism to read this, I recommend everyone reading it. I have shared it with my Aunt, because she also has a daughter with autism. I would recommend this book to my friends so they could get a glimpse of what my life is like sometimes, because a lot of my friends and people I see really don't understand.<---F> Fellow Reader, Swee'Tea </---F>...more I've been trying to think of the best way to talk about this book. I read it in a night and then forced it upon my mother -who hardly ever makes the time to read- and she finished it in a night. Someday,<---M> when my sister is ready</---M>, I will have her read it too. This book was so sweet, and at moments, heart-wrenching. It's a simple story about a young girl who wants to be known for herself - not David's sister. Her eight-year-old brother has autism and because of his special needs, often takes the at I've been trying to think of the best way to talk about this book. I read it in a night and then forced it upon my mother -who hardly ever makes the time to read- and she finished it in a night. Someday, when my sister is ready, I will have her read it too. This book was so sweet, and at moments, heart-wrenching. It's a simple story about a young girl who wants to be known for herself - not David's sister. Her eight-year-old brother has autism and because of his special needs, often takes the attention of their parents. Catherine is in a tricky place. She loves her brother, so much that she regularly adds to a list of 'rules' for him - things that the average person instinctively knows or learns very quickly - but David needs to be taught. Some of the rules are hilarious, \"If it fits in your mouth, it's food.\" Some are heartbreaking, \"Sometimes people laugh when they like you. Sometimes they laugh to hurt you.\" Yet, as much as she cares for David, he complicates her life. Her parents thrust babysitting duties on her constantly, her father rarely spends time with her alone - but he will with David, her brother is constantly embarrassing her in front of friends and neighbors. To further complicate things, they have a new next door neighbor who's Catherine's age and she does everything she can to hide David's behavior so that her new friend won't find out. Catherine also starts up a friendship with a boy at David's therapy clinic who can only communicate by pointing at the pictures in his phrasebook. It's a good story, but it really was the moments between Catherine and David that struck me so much. My seven-year-old nephew is autistic and there were so many moments that felt all too familiar. Not all unpleasant, but familiar. One of Catherine's rules is \"If you don't have the words you need - borrow someone else's.\" David takes this to heart and is perpetually quoting Arnold Lobel's \"Frog and Toad\" book to express how he feels, and Catherine will respond back with the next line. At one point, Catherine is so angry at something David does, that she refuses to respond to his usual line, \"I'm sorry, Frog.\" The panic that David goes through when the usual routine is messed up broke my heart. It is such a fragile, sweet relationship and watching Catherine figure out who she is and, more importantly, who she wants to be is such a nice journey. I recommend this to anyone whose lives have been touched by autism or who would like to see how families deal with the day to day routines with an autistic child. A beautiful story. ...more So, I've owned this book for more than a year but never gotten around to reading it. When I saw it had been challenged, I figured I'd read it to try to understand why. Here's why RULES got challenged: some people are effing crazy. This is a beautifully written, touching story about a family that happens to include an autistic kid. Catherine, the 12-year-old protagonist, is portrayed realistically, with a pitch-perfect kid's voice. She grows through the story, coming to better accept the differenc So, I've owned this book for more than a year but never gotten around to reading it. When I saw it had been challenged, I figured I'd read it to try to understand why. Here's why RULES got challenged: some people are effing crazy. This is a beautifully written, touching story about a family that happens to include an autistic kid. Catherine, the 12-year-old protagonist, is portrayed realistically, with a pitch-perfect kid's voice. She grows through the story, coming to better accept the differences in the people around her. The parents are loving but flawed in realistic ways. Every school library should have a copy of RULES and encourage kids to read it. It would be tragic if a misguided challenge anywhere limited kids' access to this inclusive, uplifting novel. ...more \"<+++>Rules</+++>\", by Cynthia Lord, is told from the perspective of Catherine, the 12-year-old sister of David, an autistic 8-year-old. Catherine, at 12, is dealing with finding a place in a family that seems to be centered around coping with David's needs for comfort and development. Catherine's mom is divided between managing a home business (leaving Catherine to care for David) and providing David the care and developmental therapy he needs. Catherine's dad seems to be mostly coping with his own diffic \"<+++>Rules</+++>\", by Cynthia Lord, is told from the perspective of Catherine, the 12-year-old sister of David, an autistic 8-year-old. Catherine, at 12, is dealing with finding a place in a family that seems to be centered around coping with David's needs for comfort and development. Catherine's mom is divided between managing a home business (leaving Catherine to care for David) and providing David the care and developmental therapy he needs. Catherine's dad seems to be mostly coping with his own difficulty with accepting the parenting cards he's been dealt and possibly with his own austistic-like tendencies. Neither parent, though they both clearly love Catherine, appears to have the emotional resources to cope with any of Catherine's issues. In a sense, she is expected not to have any and to participate in a semi-adult capacity in therapeutic care for David. Meanwhile, Catherine is confronting her own, normal, 12-year-old girl issues--how far should she go against her own needs and wishes to go along with her friends, who should her friends be, how to cope with mean kids, what to do with her summer when her best friend is away. What I really like about this novel is that the characters are allowed to be complex. Though Catherine's parents are, in a way, neglectful of her needs, they aren't portrayed as bad parents so much as people coping as well as they can with a difficult situation and making some mistakes in doing so. For example, there are a number of times in the novel where David is waiting for his father to come home from work and take him on an outing. David expects his father at five and becomes very distressed when he isn't home by five. Catherine notes that while she can understand that her father is characteristically late, David can't. Reading this, I couldn't help but wonder, though Catherine didn't, wouldn't one think her father could be expected to control his tendency to be late in this instance rather than repeatedly distress his son and force his daughter to cope with this distress on a regular basis? Why is it that Catherine can understand how difficult it is for David to cope with his father's lateness, but her father can't? Another good example is in Catherine's new neighbor, Kristie, a girl Catherine would like to be friends with, but whom she immediately senses will be much `cooler' than she is. Kristie, it turns out, isn't a mean girl, and it's clear she's dealing with her own issues, but she probably isn't going to be real friend material for Catherine. I also liked Catherine's relationship with Jason, a wheel-chair bound boy about her own age. She is attracted to him, but isn't sure she wants to take on more relationships complicated by disability. Jason, though unable to communicate without the use of written cards and symbols, manages to be a pretty real adolescent. He isn't perfect- he sulks and can be manipulative. Still, the reader can see why Catherine might find him compelling. If there is anything that seems unrealistic about the book, it is that Catherine is, maybe, too understanding. She pretty much accepts that her parents aren't able to be there for her emotionally as much as she might like them to be and is, for the most part, willing to accept what they can offer. She accepts her disappointment that new neighbor is probably not going to be a good fit for her as a friend without hating her. She is able to accept that a friendship with Jason is going to be complicated. Most of all, she loves her brother with all of his limitations, while understanding that if she could turn him into a \"normal\" boy, she would. \"Rules\" is actually a pretty upbeat book. In general, Catherine seems secure and confident in her ability to handle problems. Although she is coping with a number of issues, she clearly loves her family, has friends she cares about, and interests and talents outside the scope of caring for/worrying about her brother and is absolutely free of self-pity. This would probably be a great book for young adolescents coping with family issues. I highly recommend it. (This review is also posted at Amazon.) ...more Victoria Croteau 28 September 2016 B3 Although the assignment due was to write a feminist book review, the book I read had really nothing to do with feminism at all. In Rules by Cynthia Lord, the main focus is on the main character, Catherine, and how she gets through simple day to day tasks with her autistic brother, David, by her side. In the beginning, Catherine explains how her brother does not understand a lot of things that may come naturally to most. For example, David\u2019s father always tells Victoria Croteau 28 September 2016 B3 Although the assignment due was to write a feminist book review, the book I read had really nothing to do with feminism at all. In Rules by Cynthia Lord, the main focus is on the main character, Catherine, and how she gets through simple day to day tasks with her autistic brother, David, by her side. In the beginning, Catherine explains how her brother does not understand a lot of things that may come naturally to most. For example, David\u2019s father always tells him that he will be home by five, David takes this quite literally. When his father does not show up exactly on time, he begins to cry and throw a tantrum. Catherine has to explain to her brother, \u201cLate doesn\u2019t mean not coming\u201d(Lord, 39). Throughout the book, Catherine is teaching her brother new rules and reminding him of old ones. When a new neighbor and potential friend, Kristi, moves in next door Catherine becomes even more consistent with making sure the rules are followed, hoping that her brother will not embarrass her. David goes to therapy once a week and while waiting for him she meets a new friend, Jason, and they soon become very close. Jason cannot speak and uses cards to communicate with people. Since Catherine is good at art, Jason\u2019s mother asks her to make and decorate him some new cards. Jason shows his appreciation for the cards by saying, \u201cThank you. Catherine. New. Words\u201d(Lord, 74). With David, Jason, and even Kristi getting more close to her, she learns many lessons from them and becomes a little more comfortable with the thought of autism and its effects. I really enjoyed this book overall, especially since I have an autistic brother so I could definitely relate to Catherine at some points. Other times I kind of felt as if she overreacted to the situation. Taking into consideration that I also have an autistic brother, I kept thinking about what I would have done differently if it were me with my brother. For example, when Catherine went over to invite the new neighbors to a barbecue and David shrieked when he saw a bee, she quickly said to the neighbor, \u201cOh, look at the time, sorry, gotta go\u201d(Lord, 63). Even at the age of 12, I still knew how to react to a situation like this, especially growing up where little things like that happened all the time. The story more captured how a person would react if they had just met the autistic person, but Catherine had known her brother almost her entire life. Maybe this would have been different if Catherine was a boy because boys seem to have that more \u201ccarefree\u201d attitude when it comes to stuff like that. With all that being said, I still believe that the book had a good representation of autism as a whole and had some pretty good scenarios in it. I would recommend reading this book if you would like to learn more about autism or even just as a fun, quick read. ...more Rules, by author Cynthia Lord, is a touching look at the life of a young girl, Catherine, who's coping with the conflicting emotions of living with her autistic brother, David. And I was coping with the conflicting emotions of annoyance and boredom of reading this book. Catherine, a normal 12 year old girl, has a huge role and responsibility in the care-taking of her autistic brother, David. Catherine must balance the love and the responsibility she feels for David with the embarrassment and res Rules, by author Cynthia Lord, is a touching look at the life of a young girl, Catherine, who's coping with the conflicting emotions of living with her autistic brother, David. And I was coping with the conflicting emotions of annoyance and boredom of reading this book. Catherine, a normal 12 year old girl, has a huge role and responsibility in the care-taking of her autistic brother, David. Catherine must balance the love and the responsibility she feels for David with the embarrassment and resentment that comes along with having a family member with autism. To help David, Catherine has written a set of 'rules' that he must follow in order to help him keep his anxiety under control, and to keep him in check in social situations. At one of David's therapy sessions Catherine meets a non-speaking boy in a wheelchair named Jason, and takes a sympathetic liking to him. She helps Jason build a vocabulary of index cards with words that he can point to and help him express his thoughts. But when Jason asks Catherine to a summer dance she is torn between showing him friendship, or embarrassing herself in front of her new friend, Kris. Catherine is faced with a moral decision between what type of person she wants to be. And honestly, I didn't care much by the end of the story. Rules has some great and touching moments and does a pretty good job at showing the conflict siblings must feel having a family member with a disability. At first the story took on the feel of an overly-dramatic teenage brat who wanted everyone to feel sorry for her. But as I kept reading I decided it was an honest look at what people actually go through. But Lord's annoying style of writing in 1st person present tense and her propensity of inventing not-so-clever-overly-hyphenated-but-extremely-distracting adjectives really got on my nerves. I think this book has merit, but it is going to be put on my almost-good-but-somehow-manages-to-bore-the-crap-out-of-me shelf. ...more Well, this was a nice book - a story about a girl trying to come to grips with her autistic brother (and her parents who do everything for him and nothing for her) and her friendship with a boy with cerebral palsy. It kept my interest. But it seemed artifical - I mean, she is driven crazy by the brother, but she chooses to befriend the boy who is even more challenged? And the voice is that of a girl MUCH younger than the main character is supposed to be. Further, nothing is all that resolved, ex Well, this was a nice book - a story about a girl trying to come to grips with her autistic brother (and her parents who do everything for him and nothing for her) and her friendship with a boy with cerebral palsy. It kept my interest. But it seemed artifical - I mean, she is driven crazy by the brother, but she chooses to befriend the boy who is even more challenged? And the voice is that of a girl MUCH younger than the main character is supposed to be. Further, nothing is all that resolved, except that she is able to admit she is friends with this boy. A little lame, really, especially as there isn't any real resolution of the other problems. And Lord never paints a picture of the brother to make makes me think of him as anything other than an annoyance. I can't help but think of works-in-progress by two author friends that deal with similarly limited kids, but that have so much heart that you can't help but fall in love with the characters - something Lord doesn't come close to accomplishing. A Newbery honor? Hmmmmm - perhaps because it was a novel concept. ...more I love when teachers make you read books that you can't choose to read. I guess that its good for kids who don't read at all. But hate to break it to you, this book... Sucked. If they're trying to get kids to read, you just made it sure they won't read another word except \"pizza\" or \"video games\".I can not believe I am wasting my precious time on this book. Go and read it. See what I mean. Out of all the fabulous books like Harry Potter or Hunger Games they had to pick a book about a girl who can' I love when teachers make you read books that you can't choose to read. I guess that its good for kids who don't read at all. But hate to break it to you, this book... Sucked. If they're trying to get kids to read, you just made it sure they won't read another word except \"pizza\" or \"video games\".I can not believe I am wasting my precious time on this book. Go and read it. See what I mean. Out of all the fabulous books like Harry Potter or Hunger Games they had to pick a book about a girl who can't stand her autistic little brother. Big deal. What about action-packed books about wizards fighting dark sorceries? Or corrupt dictators putting 24 tributes in the wilderness and only \"one\" can come out? We learn from those books, not from ones that talk about a girl that likes drawing with her stupid colored pencils when her brother is at the clinic. The only thing I got from this horrible, pointless rusty tin can of a book is that public education is... going... downhill. ...more Ashley Cook McLaughlin Women\u2019s Lit Honors September 28, 2016 As if trying to figure out who you are is not hard enough at the age of twelve, main character Catherine, is trying to create who her brother is. Protagonist of \u201cRules\u201d by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David. As a way to shield the realities behind this struggle, Catherine creates rules for her brother to memorize and follow. The authors purpose is to Ashley Cook McLaughlin Women\u2019s Lit Honors September 28, 2016 As if trying to figure out who you are is not hard enough at the age of twelve, main character Catherine, is trying to create who her brother is. Protagonist of \u201cRules\u201d by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David. As a way to shield the realities behind this struggle, Catherine creates rules for her brother to memorize and follow. The authors purpose is to inform readers about the actuality of the living with a disability or living with someone that has a disability. There are valid and key points throughout the story that connect to the third wave of feminism. Although this book is not solely about feminism it does support many concepts of it. Lord does a phenomenal job at creating a simplistic, yet meaningful story. The story line is like no other, Lord links her ideas of feminism to special needs. Equality between genders is not the main focus of this novel, but equality between people with disabilities and people without is. Catherine feels as if it is her duty to make sure her brother is looked at no differently than anyone else. This mindset forces her to take on the responsibility of David. She feels as if her parents do not do a good enough job at protecting her family's reputation. Catherine spends a lot of her time planning and stressing over how to make David a more regular person, where he will fit into the general public better and be accepted by the community. It is heart wrenching when Catherine says \u201cSometimes people don't answer you because they didn't hear you. Other times it's because they don't want to hear you.\u201d (124), because this shows the struggles people with disabilities face with on a daily basis relating to acceptance. It is upsetting to think about the fact that not everyone is accepted for who they are. It is especially upsetting to think about David's own sister wishing him as a different person. This becomes emotionally evident when Catherine says \u201cSometimes I wish someone would invent a pill so David\u2019d wake up one morning without autism\u201d (8). This is very eye-opening about some of the issues in today's society. Lord presents the issues in affective ways by adding characters in an unconventional manner. By adding characters in a whole new way, Lord is able to add types of characters that are not usually popular within our cultural views of literature. The layout and style in which this story is written is important in means of understanding each abstract idea from the main character better. Some may argue that the reader is not given enough informational incite about how the other characters are feeling, but the author's intentions are strictly to show Catherine's point of view. It may just be a coincidence that Lord decided to add \u201cLeaving out isn't the same as lying\u201d (81), or it may be referring to her thoughts on her formatting techniques. No matter why it is included, it is still included and that proves a reasonable point and reinforces Lord\u2019s method. Overall, this book is for everyone to read. It may be written at a seemingly younger level, but the meaning behind the story is intense in value. This story gives insight to what our standards should be in terms of morals and ethics. The narrative may not necessarily be a feminist piece, but it does embrace concepts of feminism like equality. It is crucial for a better social environment to help assist/maintain spreading this information encouraged by Cynthia Lord. ...more I really liked this book. I like how in all of Cynthia Lord's books, there is a saying before every chapter. I liked how the main character had a brother with autism because I had never really read a book like that before. I recommend this book to anyone who likes realistic fiction or just a good, quick and funny read. Ashley Cook McLaughlin Women\u2019s Lit Honors September 28, 2016 As if trying to figure out who you are is not hard enough at the age of twelve, main character Catherine, is trying to create who her brother is. Protagonist of \u201cRules\u201d by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David. As a way to shield the realities behind this struggle, Catherine creates rules for her brother to memorize and follow. The authors purpose is to Ashley Cook McLaughlin Women\u2019s Lit Honors September 28, 2016 As if trying to figure out who you are is not hard enough at the age of twelve, main character Catherine, is trying to create who her brother is. Protagonist of \u201cRules\u201d by Cynthia Lord, struggles with anxiety and the fear of what others may think about her because of her autistic brother, David. As a way to shield the realities behind this struggle, Catherine creates rules for her brother to memorize and follow. The authors purpose is to inform readers about the actuality of the living with a disability or living with someone that has a disability. There are valid and key points throughout the story that connect to the third wave of feminism. Although this book is not solely about feminism it does support many concepts of it. Lord does a phenomenal job at creating a simplistic, yet meaningful story. The story line is like no other, Lord links her ideas of feminism to special needs. Equality between genders is not the main focus of this novel, but equality between people with disabilities and people without is. Catherine feels as if it is her duty to make sure her brother is looked at no differently than anyone else. This mindset forces her to take on the responsibility of David. She feels as if her parents do not do a good enough job at protecting her family's reputation. Catherine spends a lot of her time planning and stressing over how to make David a more regular person, where he will fit into the general public better and be accepted by the community. It is heart wrenching when Catherine says \u201cSometimes people don't answer you because they didn't hear you. Other times it's because they don't want to hear you.\u201d (124), because this shows the struggles people with disabilities face with on a daily basis relating to acceptance. It is upsetting to think about the fact that not everyone is accepted for who they are. It is especially upsetting to think about David's own sister wishing him as a different person. This becomes emotionally evident when Catherine says \u201cSometimes I wish someone would invent a pill so David\u2019d wake up one morning without autism\u201d (8). This is very eye-opening about some of the issues in today's society. Lord presents the issues in affective ways by adding characters in an unconventional manner. By adding characters in a whole new way, Lord is able to add types of characters that are not usually popular within our cultural views of literature. The layout and style in which this story is written is important in means of understanding each abstract idea from the main character better. Some may argue that the reader is not given enough informational incite about how the other characters are feeling, but the author's intentions are strictly to show Catherine's point of view. It may just be a coincidence that Lord decided to add \u201cLeaving out isn't the same as lying\u201d (81), or it may be referring to her thoughts on her formatting techniques. No matter why it is included, it is still included and that proves a reasonable point and reinforces Lord\u2019s method. Overall, this book is for everyone to read. It may be written at a seemingly younger level, but the meaning behind the story is intense in value. This story gives insight to what our standards should be in terms of morals and ethics. The narrative may not necessarily be a feminist piece, but it does embrace concepts of feminism like equality. It is crucial for a better social environment to help assist/maintain spreading this information encouraged by Cynthia Lord. ...more I thought this book was really incredible. I read it in one sitting. I was glad that Lord didn't shy away Catherine's difficult and conflicted feeling about having an autistic brother. I thought the relationship she built between Catherine and Jason was natural and touching. I think Catherine is also a really relate-able character on a more general level. I haven't experienced any of what went on in Catherine's family life, but her propensity for daydreaming and getting her hopes up about a frie I thought this book was really incredible. I read it in one sitting. I was glad that Lord didn't shy away Catherine's difficult and conflicted feeling about having an autistic brother. I thought the relationship she built between Catherine and Jason was natural and touching. I think Catherine is also a really relate-able character on a more general level. I haven't experienced any of what went on in Catherine's family life, but her propensity for daydreaming and getting her hopes up about a friend who might not be as friendly as she imagined was spot on. On a separate note, I really enjoyed the way the book was structured, with each chapter branching off of a different one of the rules from Catherine's list. ...more I finally got my hands on RULES by Cynthia Lord, and I read it in one sitting. The narrator, Catherine, genuinely seems twelve. Her mannerisms and thoughts ring true, especially her artistic view on life and her lists of rules to help both herself and her autistic brother David. Catherine has more than shallow run-of-the-mill problems to deal with, and yet she's easy to identify with. In less capable hands, the story could have come across saccharine or depressing. Lord pulls it off in a way tha I finally got my hands on RULES by Cynthia Lord, and I read it in one sitting. The narrator, Catherine, genuinely seems twelve. Her mannerisms and thoughts ring true, especially her artistic view on life and her lists of rules to help both herself and her autistic brother David. Catherine has more than shallow run-of-the-mill problems to deal with, and yet she's easy to identify with. In less capable hands, the story could have come across saccharine or depressing. Lord pulls it off in a way that seems effortless. She does a great job with pacing as well. From the premise of the book, I expected it to be a slower read, but the story strides along confidently. I loved Catherine's blossoming relationship with wheelchair-bound Jason, who can't speak, beautifully shown in the vocabulary cards she makes him. At the start he has only a standard, bland set of cards. She's the first person to recognize his need to express himself through joking, sarcasm, and teen slang. I laughed when Jason's mother said, \"Don't 'whatever' me, young man!\" and felt a bit of shared triumph. As Catherine helps Jason communicate, she in turn reveals her own hidden thoughts and emotions. I even became a bit misty-eyed when I read the end, a rare occurrence. Catherine's life and the people in it are neither predictable nor perfect, but her compassion remains constant, and that's the beauty of this book. ...more Such delight! This touching, funny story -- a quick, compelling read for a sunny afternoon -- is both respectful and adorably irreverent. Catherine is the voice of a wise, practical observer whose perspective has been sharpened by life with her autistic brother and her disabled friend. There is nothing here which is inappropriate for any reader of any age; and there is much here that is valuable for everyone, whether or not they know or are related to people who have autism or any other physical Such delight! This touching, funny story -- a quick, compelling read for a sunny afternoon -- is both respectful and adorably irreverent. Catherine is the voice of a wise, practical observer whose perspective has been sharpened by life with her autistic brother and her disabled friend. There is nothing here which is inappropriate for any reader of any age; and there is much here that is valuable for everyone, whether or not they know or are related to people who have autism or any other physical or mental disabilities. This story will be particularly valuable for all children whose siblings or other family members are challenged by any persistent disorder or disability. Highly recommended! ...more I read this for a book club book and it was about a girl whose brother had autism and he was very embarrasing. (at least to her) it taught me some lessons about honestly and much more! If I could be objective, I would probably give this book a higher rating. My son with Autism read this book with his 5th grade class. One would normally identify with the main character of this book, 12-year-old Catherine who's younger brother, David, has Autism. I can't help but wonder, though, if my son identified with David (being that my son is a younger brother with Autism). It makes me cringe to think this as Catherine is clearly embarrassed by David. At one point, she even compares him to If I could be objective, I would probably give this book a higher rating. My son with Autism read this book with his 5th grade class. One would normally identify with the main character of this book, 12-year-old Catherine who's younger brother, David, has Autism. I can't help but wonder, though, if my son identified with David (being that my son is a younger brother with Autism). It makes me cringe to think this as Catherine is clearly embarrassed by David. At one point, she even compares him to a rotten apple (something to the effect of he looks OK on the outside, but is brown and mushy on the inside). I have worked so hard on teaching my son that he is different, but not less than anyone else. I felt this book was going against what I have been trying to teach him ever since I explained to my son that he has Autism. He has been struggling some with his self-esteem since reading this book and I can't help but think there could be a connection. There is a sweet side story where Catherine befriends a boy in a wheelchair named Jason (thus the 2 star rating instead of 1). It seemed like this experience was starting to soften Catherine's feelings toward David, but it never fully developed and I was left feeling like there was no real resolution. Maybe that was the point -- how life is when you live with a sibling with a disability? I think Cynthia Lord had better intentions than this, but I am left with the after effects of trying to boost my Autistic son's self-esteem. ...more I wasn't sure I would like this book at first because it is an \"issues\" book. I thought it would be about a girl who learns to accept her brother's disabilities, and while this is true, it was more a learning-to-fit-in-and-be-comfortable-with-yourself book. I'm still making it sound cheesy, but it really wasn't. Rather, it was hilarious and well-written. The main character, a twelve-year-old girl named Catherine, is highly relatable, and draws you in from the first chapter by telling you all abo I wasn't sure I would like this book at first because it is an \"issues\" book. I thought it would be about a girl who learns to accept her brother's disabilities, and while this is true, it was more a learning-to-fit-in-and-be-comfortable-with-yourself book. I'm still making it sound cheesy, but it really wasn't. Rather, it was hilarious and well-written. The main character, a twelve-year-old girl named Catherine, is highly relatable, and draws you in from the first chapter by telling you all about her \"rules\" for behavior that she has written for her autistic brother (which range from practical to laugh-out-loud funny). I couldn't help but love her for doing this for him. My only problem with the book was that I felt like the main character wasn't consistent; it felt like she went from being 12 to being 15 halfway through the book. She initially seems cute and tomboyish, but then all of a sudden begins to show so much maturity and becomes so precise and erudite in her word choices and in her ability to self-analyze that at times I felt very conscious of the author's own voice shining through the narrator's. Such is the problem with first person, I guess. All in all this was an excellent book and I would highly recommend it. ...more The fourth book I read this summer was rules by Cynthia lord, I personally found this book well written interesting with authenticity to it. This book was about a girl Catherine and her younger brother David who is autistic. Catharine is much like any ordinary girl and all she desires for is for David to wake up one day and for is autism to disappear, but Catharine knows that wish will never come true. Through out portions of the book Catharine feel that her world revolves around David, she has The fourth book I read this summer was rules by Cynthia lord, I personally found this book well written interesting with authenticity to it. This book was about a girl Catherine and her younger brother David who is autistic. Catharine is much like any ordinary girl and all she desires for is for David to wake up one day and for is autism to disappear, but Catharine knows that wish will never come true. Through out portions of the book Catharine feel that her world revolves around David, she has to go the clinic every day for David\u2019s occupational therapy but the she meets Jason, it started by Catharine simply drawing, Jason has a certain disability that he is not able to speak so he uses communication word cards to apologize she volunteered to illustrate Jason\u2019s word cards and the create some new ones for him. And then Jason and Catharine became very good friends and there relationship grows stronger through out the book, even though Catharine tries her hardest to make David normal she accepts that he will ever be normal. this was a heart warming story that showed a different perspective acceptance. i would recommend this book to everyone who looking for a heart warming read. ...more I've been meaning to read this ever since my coworker Kristi booktalked it years ago. Then I got to hear the author speak at ALA last summer (she has an autistic son) so that made me want to read it even more. I'm so glad I finally did. This is a good one for anyone interested in autism. 12-year-old Catherine's younger brother David is autistic. This means that he gets a lot more attention from their parents than she does, and also that Catherine shoulders a lot more responsibility than many kid I've been meaning to read this ever since my coworker Kristi booktalked it years ago. Then I got to hear the author speak at ALA last summer (she has an autistic son) so that made me want to read it even more. I'm so glad I finally did. This is a good one for anyone interested in autism. 12-year-old Catherine's younger brother David is autistic. This means that he gets a lot more attention from their parents than she does, and also that Catherine shoulders a lot more responsibility than many kids her age. At the office where David goes regularly for therapy, Catherine befriends a boy her age named Jason. Jason has CP and doesn't talk, but he has a notebook of words that he can point to when he wants to communicate. He and Catherine slowly become friends, and as she adds words to his notebook as they get to know one another better, she realizes that different isn't necessarily so bad. ...more I read this book to help my grandson with his Battle of the Books assignment. We can discuss the characters and the important points of the story together now. I enjoyed the characters in the story and the RULES very much. I hope my grandson cares about Carherine and her little brother, David, as much as I do now. I have never met a person like Jason before but I am pleased that this story has given me an insight into what someone without words faces every day. I learned that just because someon I read this book to help my grandson with his Battle of the Books assignment. We can discuss the characters and the important points of the story together now. I enjoyed the characters in the story and the RULES very much. I hope my grandson cares about Carherine and her little brother, David, as much as I do now. I have never met a person like Jason before but I am pleased that this story has given me an insight into what someone without words faces every day. I learned that just because someone cannot talk, it does not mean that they cannot hear or that they cannot say things, if they have the words. ...more This book was absolutely inspiring. I thought Catherine so brave for handling her brother's autism with more understanding and grace than I believe the average 12 year old would have. She shows a combination of kindness and frustration because she is torn between instilling her younger autistic brother with rules for life and being a normal pre-teen. I believe her relationship with Jason teaches her one of the most important lessons in life. That lesson is that some people don't know how to deal This book was absolutely inspiring. I thought Catherine so brave for handling her brother's autism with more understanding and grace than I believe the average 12 year old would have. She shows a combination of kindness and frustration because she is torn between instilling her younger autistic brother with rules for life and being a normal pre-teen. I believe her relationship with Jason teaches her one of the most important lessons in life. That lesson is that some people don't know how to deal with adversity, and some people ignore it but what is really important is how we choose to deal with it and our relationships with one another. ...more So far this book has been interesting- in a good way. It gives real life situations that the characters have to solve and really makes you want to keep reading. The book is about Catherine and her little brother, David, who has autism. This means he needs help with lots of things, which is why Catherine has made him RULES that he is supposed to follow. All of her adventures to try to protect him have been very exciting- and a little bit funny, too. I would definitely recommend reading this book. I just finished reading RULES for the second time, and I loved the characters even more this time around. This is a funny, touching book about a girl coming to terms with her brother's disability and what it means to their family life. It's a fantastic book for the classroom, with lots of opportunities for extension activities and discussion (and in the September Scholastic Book Order for $3.95). A friend that has a son with autism gave us this book today... So far it is very good. I loved this book. I loved all the books the author has wrote. This book gave a very good message. The message was to not treat people differently even if they have special needs. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes reading books that have characters with special needs Rules by Cynthia Lord was a touching book about kids who has autism. The book takes place in the summertime by the ocean. The book doesn't give me a specific year but I'm guessing it was not to long ago because of the way they dress and how they talk. The main character is Catherine who is a teenage girl who loves to draw. David is her younger brother and he is diagnosed with autism. She has to go through everyday not knowing what he will do next.Catherine gained a new neighbor in the beginning Rules by Cynthia Lord was a touching book about kids who has autism. The book takes place in the summertime by the ocean. The book doesn't give me a specific year but I'm guessing it was not to long ago because of the way they dress and how they talk. The main character is Catherine who is a teenage girl who loves to draw. David is her younger brother and he is diagnosed with autism. She has to go through everyday not knowing what he will do next.Catherine gained a new neighbor in the beginning of the summer named Kristi. Catherine was so excited to get a new neighbor and she wanted to be best friends with her. Kristi is a pretty girl with long brown hair. She started hanging out with Ryan, a boy who Catherine doesn't like very much. Ryan is in Catherine\u2019s grade and picks on David sometimes. Catherine's best friend Melissa Went to visit her dad in California for the summer and Catherine misses her like crazy. She can\u2019t call her because she can\u2019t call long distance. Jason is a boy that Catherine met at David\u2019s occupational therapy. Jason is in a wheelchair and can\u2019t talk. He uses a communication book to talk to people. Catherine became very good friends with Jason and sat by him every time she went to therapy with David. The book opens up on the last day of school and Catherine and David are at the bus stop. Ryan was being mean to David so Catherine started a fight with him. They both got in trouble and had to sit in the front seat that day. Kristi moved in next door to Catherine, Catherine wanted to do everything with her and become her best friend. Catherine slowly realized that Kristi isn't who she wanted her to be. Kristi became friend with Ryan right away and did almost everything with him. Kristi invited Catherine to go to the dance with her and Ryan but she said she couldn't because she is going to Jason's birthday party that day. Catherine met Jason at occupational therapy and slowly became friends with him. Jason wanted Catherine to make him new cards for his communication book and she said yes. She made him all different kinds of words that she thought he would need and she made them really colorful. Catherine brings David and her mom to Jason's birthday party. At the party she gives Jason his present which is a guitar that he has always wanted. Jason finds out that Catherine doesn't want to be seen with him in public because she is afraid of what people might think of her. Jason gets mad and wheels away from her. Later that day Catherine calls Jason and invites him the the dance. At the dance Jason and her make up and Kristi sees who Jason really is. Kristi is mad at Catherine for not telling her and runs off with Ryan. This book taught me about the more important things in life and to appreciate the things that I have. I would recommend this book to younger students because I feel like they would really enjoy this book just as much as I did. I rated this book 3 out of 5 stars because it was a lower reading level for me but I still enjoyed reading the book. ...more I finished reading \"Rules\" by Cynthia Lord. I did not find this book to be very interesting or entertaining by any means. The story line was kind of boring and it did not even have some sort of twist to it. The book is about a teenage girl named Catherine. She has a younger brother who is autistic. She teaches him rules for everyday experiences. She tells him not to put items in the fishtank, or to not open every door he sees. The main characters in the book are Catherine, David, Jason, Kristi, I finished reading \"Rules\" by Cynthia Lord. I did not find this book to be very interesting or entertaining by any means. The story line was kind of boring and it did not even have some sort of twist to it. The book is about a teenage girl named Catherine. She has a younger brother who is autistic. She teaches him rules for everyday experiences. She tells him not to put items in the fishtank, or to not open every door he sees. The main characters in the book are Catherine, David, Jason, Kristi, Catherine\u2019s mom, and Catherine\u2019s dad. Catherine is the main character in the book. She is David\u2019s older sister that helps him everyday. Catherine is very protective of David, and does not let people make fun of him. David is about 10 years old. He is always in a good mood during each day. His favorite thing to do is to listen to his tape of the frog and the toad. Jason is a kid that Catherine meets at speech therapy. Jason can listen just fine, but he cannot talk. Throughout the book, Catherine makes him cards with words on them so he can be more descriptive when he talks to others. Kristi is the new neighbor next to Catherine. Kristi and Catherine become good friends until the ending. Catherine\u2019s mom works from home so she can try to keep an eye on David. Catherine\u2019s dad works a lot and often stays late. Catherine and David end up getting sad or upset when he makes excuses when he is late. The book takes place in the current time period. Catherine lives in a small house in a small neighborhood. She lives in either Maine or Massachusetts. I believe she lives in one of those states because the book says she lives on the coast, and that she is a big Red Sox fan. The themes in the book is friendship, honesty, and acceptance. Catherine is friends with her brother, David, as well as Jason and Kristi. She is not honest with Kristi about Jason being in a wheelchair and that he can not talk. Everyone should be accepted for who they are on the inside, not for what they look like on the outside. I would recommend this book to younger kids. It does not have a good enough storyline to intrigue older and more mature readers. ...more Summary- Rules is a chapter book for readers in 4th to 8th grade. It is about a 12-year-old girl named Catherine who has a younger brother, David, with Autism. She worries about what others think of her a lot and she struggles with accepting her brother. Throughout the book she talks about how she makes rules for David to help him understand the world. She tries to make him \u201cnormal\u201d so he won\u2019t embarrass her. She gets a new neighbor who she wants to impress, but it is difficult due to her family Summary- Rules is a chapter book for readers in 4th to 8th grade. It is about a 12-year-old girl named Catherine who has a younger brother, David, with Autism. She worries about what others think of her a lot and she struggles with accepting her brother. Throughout the book she talks about how she makes rules for David to help him understand the world. She tries to make him \u201cnormal\u201d so he won\u2019t embarrass her. She gets a new neighbor who she wants to impress, but it is difficult due to her family and lifestyle. Catherine also makes another new friend at her brother\u2019s speech and OT clinic. His name is Jason and he is a nonverbal boy in a wheelchair. He communicates through picture cards in a binder. Since Catherine is an artist, she offers to make some better looking cards than what he already has. Through her empathy and friendship with Jason, Catherine learns a lot about herself and her brother. She also has to decide what is more important; what people think of her, or what she thinks of herself. Response- I loved this story. I wasn\u2019t surprised to see that the author has a son with Autism. The way that she describes David and his behaviors were right on. I pictured a lot of my former students with Autism as I read about David. I like that this book was written from the perspective of a sibling of someone with special needs. There are a lot of children that could identify with Catherine. Jason represents a lot of other children with special needs. As a special education teacher, I have various nonverbal students just like Jason. I notice how other students stare at them. I enjoyed that the author gave Jason a great sense of humor and wonderful qualities. Maybe the students that read this book will develop different opinions about people that are in wheelchairs and/or nonverbal. Another positive aspect from this book was the common struggle between what is right and what kids want. Catherine has her immature moments throughout the book, but she always end up making good choices. This story demonstrates how you can fix your mistakes and be happy no matter what your surroundings are. ...more Summary- This book was written for kids upper elementary school and junior high. Rules is a story about a young girl, Catherine, who has a brother, David, with Autism. The book is written from her point of view and Catherine honestly shares her responsibilities, embarrassments, and frustrations of having a brother with a disability. One day when Catherine went with David to occupational therapy. There she becomes friends with Jason, a non-verbal boy in a wheelchair. He communicates using word car Summary- This book was written for kids upper elementary school and junior high. Rules is a story about a young girl, Catherine, who has a brother, David, with Autism. The book is written from her point of view and Catherine honestly shares her responsibilities, embarrassments, and frustrations of having a brother with a disability. One day when Catherine went with David to occupational therapy. There she becomes friends with Jason, a non-verbal boy in a wheelchair. He communicates using word cards. Catherine is a wonderful artist and offers to make him more words to communicate with. She adds words like whatever, gross, stinks a big one, etc along with colorful drawings. As Jason and Catherine's friendship grows, she struggles with telling others that he's in a wheelchair in fear of what they might think or how they might treat him. You will have to read to find out how deals with this and eventually finds acceptance. Response- What a wonderful book! I couldn't put this one down! It is obvious that Cynthia Lord has a personal connection to this story because she clearly depicted the feelings of Catherine and the rest of her family as they were dealing with David and his autism. This is a great read for young teens because so many of them are trying to find their place in life and to fit in. They will do anything they can to become more popular. Rules showed how Catherine learned that her true friends weren't those that she was trying to impress but rather those that accepted her and loved her for who she was, like Jason and David. Along with self image, the story contained themes of friendship that all children can relate to. I'd love to read this with a group of students to see the kind of discussion it inspires. ...more This book being a 2007 Newbery Honor, I've got to read the winner for that year and see how it compares, because this is a wonderful book. Lord beautifully uses this idea of \"rules\" (stemming from the narrator's rules for her autistic brother, who doesn't learn them from observation) throughout the novel. I love what the rules say about our proprieties. The rules are sometimes funny, sometimes sad, but they all say something about how human beings operate. For example: \"If you don't want to do s This book being a 2007 Newbery Honor, I've got to read the winner for that year and see how it compares, because this is a wonderful book. Lord beautifully uses this idea of \"rules\" (stemming from the narrator's rules for her autistic brother, who doesn't learn them from observation) throughout the novel. I love what the rules say about our proprieties. The rules are sometimes funny, sometimes sad, but they all say something about how human beings operate. For example: \"If you don't want to do something, say 'Hmm. I'll think about it' and maybe the asker will forget the whole bad idea\" or \"Sometimes people laugh because they like you. But sometimes they laugh to hurt you.\" Some rules reveal our cruelties, but most of them are very much necessary to helping us get along with one another. I find the weaving of the rules into the story cleverly done and insightful. Lord also does a lovely job of exploring the weight of words, mainly through the narrator writing word cards for her friend who cannot speak. I like the story and the characters too. This is a simple, often touching and often humorous, story about family, fitting in, wanting friends, and grasping who/what is really important. Reading this book got me thinking of times growing up when I didn't do things as I knew I should have because of how I wanted to appear or because I wanted to fit in and how I still regret those times. And how I still haven't outgrown making those sorts of mistakes, but I want to. Excellent little book. And, Deb, the Frog and Toad stuff was perfect. ...more<---C>Cynthia Lord</---C>", "Title": "Rules"},
