{"Comments": "*edit 22 Dec 2011* No? Too much? Nevermind\u2026 YES! Finally a great book! Finally a use for the mysterious walking stick!! Oh such a wonderful day! What a wonderful life! Love Mercy Love Adam Love Coyote Love Fishy Thing Creature It just might be the best in the series. P.S.<---F> Chris Hemsworth is so hot</---F>. P.P.S. Favorite Quote: Adam didn\u2019t approve of Walmart. Note: This is a spoiler-free review! I had not read any blurbs or spoilers for this book before I started it and let me tell you how surprised I was at the first few chapters in this one. Yes, it tells the big surprise on the inside of the jacket cover \u2013 but since I am posting this review before release date, I don\u2019t feel comfortable talking about it. So I\u2019m not going to talk a lot about the plot. But I will tell you this. I read this series for two r Favorite Quote: Adam didn\u2019t approve of Walmart. Note: This is a spoiler-free review! I had not read any blurbs or spoilers for this book before I started it and let me tell you how surprised I was at the first few chapters in this one. Yes, it tells the big surprise on the inside of the jacket cover \u2013 but since I am posting this review before release date, I don\u2019t feel comfortable talking about it. So I\u2019m not going to talk a lot about the plot. But I will tell you this. I read this series for two reasons. One, I adore Mercy and Adam. Both separate and together. Mercy is such a strong, level-headed heroine who can claim her independence while surrounded by pack,<---M> vampires etc</---M>, yet she is so polite and warm. And Adam \u2013 well \u2013 he fulfills all my dirty needs when it comes to an alpha male. In <+++>River Marked</+++> we get a lot of Adam and Mercy. And by that I mean, almost the entire book is the two of them together. I was shocked, and I loved every second of it. We get a very intimate glimpse into their relationship. We see another side of Adam, and wow. What a sweetie. I love him even more. \u201cNo ma\u2019am,\u201d he drawled mildly, though I could see a dimple peeping out. I loved his dimple \u2013 and I loved it even more when he dropped into the accent of his youth. I especially loved the warm strength of him against me. I was so easy. We also learn a lot about what Mercy is. Her heritage is presented in much detail. At times I found these parts to be very slow. There is a point towards the middle that the pacing slows down so much I got worried for the rest of the book. But then something big happens and the rest finished quite nicely. The second reason I read this series is for the amazing intricacies of pack life <---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> has created. I love her wolves, and their politics. How they live so closely as pack, yet are always on the verge of violence. I adore their dynamics and how Mercy has come to fit in. But \u2013 we don\u2019t get that in this book. Adam and Mercy are removed from pack (<---B>or as much as they can be</---B>) in this one. I miss that. I know I sound greedy because we do get awesome Adam and Mercy stuff, but I will be looking forward getting back to pack life hopefully in the next one. Overall I enjoyed this book. Like I said, we see a side of Adam that made me smile. Don't worry, he totally loses it a few times and his alpha, growly, wolf takes over. But it is a very romantic, quieter side we see. He smiled at me. \u201cGo to sleep.\u201d I waited three seconds. \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d His smile widened, and the last of the usual tension melted from his face. For a smile like that I\u2019d\u2026.do anything. The mystery and conflict are interwoven into Mercy\u2019s ancestry and I think this look at who Mercy is and where she comes from really makes you understand Mercy better. This book is definitely one of the more romance oriented books in the series. While I don\u2019t think a sex scene in every book is necessary for this series, I do think this book really could have benefited from at least one. You can think me shallow for saying that \u2013 but once you read this book you might understand why I say that. Patricia Briggs continues to write one of the best written urban fantasy series out there. If you don\u2019t read this series, pick up Moon Called immediately. You will not be disappointed. Rating: B ...more <+++>River Marked</+++> is a good book. There's not really any reason to think otherwise. It follows on faithfully the tale of Mercedes Thompson through her marriage and honeymoon. Fans of the series might be very relieved that this book's mystery doesn't deal with fae, vampire or pack issues unlike previous books. After a lovely wedding, Mercy and Adam head off on their romantic and sex fueled honeymoon. The book is very light on any sexual descriptions, possably causing a number of frustrated groans from f River Marked is a good book. There's not really any reason to think otherwise. It follows on faithfully the tale of Mercedes Thompson through her marriage and honeymoon. Fans of the series might be very relieved that this book's mystery doesn't deal with fae, vampire or pack issues unlike previous books. After a lovely wedding, Mercy and Adam head off on their romantic and sex fueled honeymoon. The book is very light on any sexual descriptions, possably causing a number of frustrated groans from fans as they read. When a man is found in a boat with a bitten-off leg and his sister missing, things start to get interesting. This probably proves that either the universe hates Mercy or that she is on a one-coyote mission to prove that werewolves CAN age by giving <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C> prematurely gray hair. Briggs has been suspiciously closed lipped on my query emails about whether it is the latter. Nevertheless, Mercy has her opportunity to scare the shit out of Adam who should really know by now that she is not a normal woman but a super-powered space robot which is impervious to death. Actually, this novel addresses and finally resolves one of Mercy's big mysteries about herself and her past and it is done with such a lovely flare of American mythology that I found myself really enjoying the story and characters. Though we are missing most of the usual cast apart from brief appearances, the stand-in cast is funny and very likable. But the book left me pondering a single question. How much more does the Mercedes Thompson series have in it? A quick google search says it's a seven book deal, but what more does this story REALLY have to offer? Well, the first six books HAVE been painfully void of evil squirrels so I guess it's their turn next... I'm glad that there's only one more book in this series. I enjoy the Thompson world, and I'm glad that Briggs has taken it up in her Alpha and Omega book series, but I'm honestly not holding out for anymore books that focus on Mercy and her crew. I'm glad that it's coming to an end and hopefully the last book will maintain the same good quality as the ones that came before it. ...more Still loving this series! (view spoiler) [I'm a bit disappointed the actual wedding ceremony wasn't detailed beyond the set up and reception. Also I would have liked more details on the first night of the honeymoon ;) (hide spoiler) ] Another fun and fast read! I consider this the Mercy installment written for the romance fans. When I first read it in 2011, I felt like the pacing was awkward but overall appreciated and enjoyed the story, particularly the exploration of Mercy's heritage. Re-reading confirms the overall issues with the series Silver Borne/series review but it remains an enjoyable installment. It begins with Mercy rescuing a male friend from himself, followed by pre-wedding jitters, encouraged by Mercy's mom now including butterflies and b I consider this the Mercy installment written for the romance fans. When I first read it in 2011, I felt like the pacing was awkward but overall appreciated and enjoyed the story, particularly the exploration of Mercy's heritage. Re-reading confirms the overall issues with the series Silver Borne/series review but it remains an enjoyable installment. It begins with Mercy rescuing a male friend from himself, followed by pre-wedding jitters, encouraged by Mercy's mom now including butterflies and balloons. There's a wedding, and all the important men are there, along with Mercy's two sisters. Adam and Mercy then hitch up a camper and head to a private campground along the Columbia River where they have lots of tastefully alluded to sex in between eating hot dogs and going for runs. Mercy and Adam are innocently playing along the river when they discover an injured man in a boat. Not long after they pull his boat to shore, his family comes looking for him. The setting for the book is lovely, with the affection for the area shining through. Mercy's narrative is interrupted by an alternate viewpoint dream sequence. Plotting is decent. The wedding and initial parts of the honeymoon were enjoyable, and a payoff for the ups and downs of their relationship. Mercy and Adam choose to fight the river creature because of altruism, not because someone is kidnapped (although it's noteworthy that a kidnapping helps engage Mercy's personal resolution to fight). One of the plot lines has to do with Mercy finding out more about her own heritage/history, moments that cause me mixed emotion out of amusement, enjoyment and eye-rolling that Briggs just couldn't resist the lure of the Super-Speshul-Snowflake. I enjoyed the inclusion of the Native American folklore, although I will note that it made me both a little uncomfortable that Native lore might be being co-opted and that everyone involved insisted on calling themselves 'Indian.' The villain was intimidating and creepy, and powerful enough that winning felt somewhat questionable. As a complete aside, I'll just note here that there's a bit of obsession with going 'decently clothed,' although from book one, Mercy assures the reader she doesn't have any nudity hang-ups. It's just that now she's married to Adam. And she doesn't want anyone seeing his marvelous body either. I'll attribute this to the romance novel tradition, because I can't think why else we need to go on so much about states of undress if everyone's all copacetic about body image. I feel like Briggs' own issues are showing again. Once again, almost every introduced is male, except for the villain, a trio of Native avatars, and one injured guy's wife in a hospital scene at the end. Ms. Briggs, we need to talk. Three and a half stars, rounding down because that's what I do for this series. read July 2011 re-read May 2016 ...more Patricia Briggs has this amazing ability to keep this series feeling fresh. Unlike other longer series (for example, the Sookie Stackhouse Mysteries) the plot lines never feel contrived or forced. River Marked is the epitome of Brigg's ability to tell a story that feels so real, despite the fantasy. When more is revealed about Mercy's background it seems authentic, not like Sookie's fairyblood, which seemed pulled out of Harris' ass. The new supernaturals fall flawlessly into their place in Brig Patricia Briggs has this amazing ability to keep this series feeling fresh. Unlike other longer series (for example, the Sookie Stackhouse Mysteries) the plot lines never feel contrived or forced. River Marked is the epitome of Brigg's ability to tell a story that feels so real, despite the fantasy. When more is revealed about Mercy's background it seems authentic, not like Sookie's fairyblood, which seemed pulled out of Harris' ass. The new supernaturals fall flawlessly into their place in Brigg's world because they flow from her great grasp of real myths and legends. If that weren't enough to make these books truly special, the subplots actually advance in this series (shocking I know!). There isn't the constant will they/won't they. The continued growth and development of Mercy and Adam's relationship is one of the things that keeps bringing me back to these novels. And although there is always conflict or a challenge in the novels it seems to evolve naturally from the world and the character's position in that world. ...more February 2017 Re-read January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah . Next to Iron Kissed , I think this is the most emotional book for me. We get a LOT more time with just Mercy and Adam. A lot more insight into Mercy's heritage. And a lot more emotion throughout it all. I became very quickly attached to characters we just met, and love Adam and Mercy even more than I ever have. Original Review: Mercy's going crazy. And it's not the fae, wolves, or vampires that are scaring her this time. It's her we February 2017 Re-read January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah . Next to Iron Kissed , I think this is the most emotional book for me. We get a LOT more time with just Mercy and Adam. A lot more insight into Mercy's heritage. And a lot more emotion throughout it all. I became very quickly attached to characters we just met, and love Adam and Mercy even more than I ever have. Original Review: Mercy's going crazy. And it's not the fae, wolves, or vampires that are scaring her this time. It's her wedding. More specifically, planning it with her mother. Who apparently thinks doves, pigeons, and butterflies would be a wonderful addition to the day. She's ready to elope. The honeymoon should make up for it all though, and be just what she needs. Just her, Adam, a camper and no one for miles for ten days. Bliss. Unfortunately things don't go quite as planned and when they find a person with his foot bit off, Mercy's suddenly thrust into a mystery that brings her into much closer contact with her own personal history. I loved this book. Loved it. I think that most fans will either love it, or not like it. It takes us away from all the secondary characters that we love in the Tri-Cities for most of the book, and focuses on Adam and Mercy, and Mercy's roots. For 5 books I've been waiting to get some more in-depth alone time with Mercy and Adam. I think that this book really solidifies what they are to and for each other and I love that they fit so perfectly. We meet some new characters, and one, in particular, is a favorite. He's fabulous, funny, smart, and just a little bit crazy. And learning more about Mercy's past - things she didn't even know - is fun and extremely entertaining. There is a thing with these books that bugs me a bit. It doesn't bug me until I'm finished, but it does bother me. Near the end, when Mercy and Adam are getting ready to fight the \"big bad\" Adam's always, ALWAYS, knocked out of the fight somehow. There's something that prevents him from being there to help - and mostly this is probably because he'd wipe the floor with anything that was trying to hurt Mercy and Mercy needs to be the one that saves the day/herself/others etc. I get that, and I like that Mercy saves the day, but I wish this could be handled a bit differently in the books. A good example is Kate and Curran - Curran ( Magic Bites ) is obviously stronger, but Kate's essential and strong too. They work together to get what needs to be done, done. Anyway. Like I said, a minor bother, but I did want to bring it up. Great book though. Strong interpersonal relationships, strong mystery story-line (with some great emotionally charged moments) and fantastic characters. This continues to be one of my favorite series, and Patricia Briggs a favorite author. ...more Wow, I feel like this series needed this book at this point. If you've been aching for some quality Adam/Mercy time, you get it in spades! Most of this story is just the two of them, along with a few new secondary characters. There is a lot of romance, and not the uber sexy kind. Just good old loving and bonding between a couple that has very little face time in their every day life. Due to the enormous responsibility of Adam's position in the pack...and therefore Mercy's as well...they get mini Wow, I feel like this series needed this book at this point. If you've been aching for some quality Adam/Mercy time, you get it in spades! Most of this story is just the two of them, along with a few new secondary characters. There is a lot of romance, and not the uber sexy kind. Just good old loving and bonding between a couple that has very little face time in their every day life. Due to the enormous responsibility of Adam's position in the pack...and therefore Mercy's as well...they get miniscule amounts of down time. I found it frustrating as to how little we readers get to see of them just being couple. But not any more. Even if this is the majority of romance for the rest of the series, I think it will be enough. It solidified how much they care for one another, but more importantly...how well they work as a team. We also get a bit of a scare on both their parts as they receive a reality check on just how deeply their bond goes. It was quite beautiful. OF course there is a big baddie...and she is scary! Plus, Mercy's past comes back to literally haunt her. As every, one of the BEST UF series available! Right up there with Kate Daniels in my opinion. ...more 4.5 STARS!!! Even after five books, Briggs is able to keep the Mercy Thompson world fresh. I found that this book was very different from the others. It\u2019s set in an entirely different place. No garage here, even though I kind of missed that. The Pack is set on the sidelines, while Mercy and Adam take centre stage and new characters are introduced. The newbies are very interesting because they are the first Native Americans we\u2019ve encountered in this series apart from Mercy. River-Marked explores 4.5 STARS!!! Even after five books, Briggs is able to keep the Mercy Thompson world fresh. I found that this book was very different from the others. It\u2019s set in an entirely different place. No garage here, even though I kind of missed that. The Pack is set on the sidelines, while Mercy and Adam take centre stage and new characters are introduced. The newbies are very interesting because they are the first Native Americans we\u2019ve encountered in this series apart from Mercy. River-Marked explores Mercy\u2019s Native half and it was a natural change in the course of her life. But things happen in Mercy\u2019s life that make change inevitable. I thought that as Mercy entered a new phase in her life, her friends were also dealing with changes in theirs. Some are tragic like Stefan who is having trouble dealing with Marsilia\u2019s betrayal while others are more trivial like Jesse trying to figure out ways to outsmart Darryl and let her go out on a date with Gabriel. While the very beginning and the very end caught my attention, I thought it was a bit slow somewhere in the middle. All the Native stories were getting confusing after awhile. Also, Samuel is not in this one at all! There\u2019s a brief mention of him, but I would have liked to read more about him. Certainly he hasn\u2019t just dropped out of Mercy\u2019s life after all that they\u2019ve been through, no matter that Mercy is married to Adam now. But my favourite part of the book has to be the letter Mercy wrote for Adam at the very end. It broke my heart! Mercy isn\u2019t fond of expressing her feelings in words, so the fact that she took the time to sit down and do this makes it even more special. I just adore Adam and Mercy together. They\u2019re so perfect! ...more I discovered this series when I read this book and that was it!!! I knew I was going to love reading Mercy Thompson\u2019s adventures!!! And I do love this series!!! I am totally addicted!! River Marked is the 6th book in the series and it\u2019s quite different to the previous novels as it\u2019s mostly set away from Mercy\u2019s home and a whole new set of characters are introduced, which gives us more information about Mercy\u2019s heritage. Mercy & Adam are now married and mated and set off on their honeymoon to a I discovered this series when I read this book and that was it!!! I knew I was going to love reading Mercy Thompson\u2019s adventures!!! And I do love this series!!! I am totally addicted!! River Marked is the 6th book in the series and it\u2019s quite different to the previous novels as it\u2019s mostly set away from Mercy\u2019s home and a whole new set of characters are introduced, which gives us more information about Mercy\u2019s heritage. Mercy & Adam are now married and mated and set off on their honeymoon to a secluded camp in the Columbia River area. , looking forward to spending quiet and relaxing time together\u2026.but as we know, something is going to happen where Mercy is around\u2026 There\u2019s something in the river that is killing people and Mercy has some connection to the monster, named River Devil. Between trying to discover the reason for the killings, she encounters a Native American tribe that knows something about her earlier life. She\u2019s told the identity of her father\u2026..a coyote walker who sees ghosts\u2026. This is a fantastic adventure, filled with new revelations about Mercy and also something new about shape shifters.. I loved the chemistry between Mercy and Adam\u2026. . They have a deep and strong connection \u2013and let\u2019s not speak about possessiveness\u2026. I adore these two together\u2026they suit each other perfectly!!!!! I did enjoy learning about the Native American history, their myths and their customs\u2026it was an added pleasure and hopefully we will see more of them in the next books. Another well-written story with a great plot and fantastic addition of characters to this amazing fantasy world. My favorite quote: \u201cAll life is rife with possibilities. Seeds have possibilities, but all their tomorrows are caught by the patterning of their life cycle. Animals have possibilities that are greater than that of a fir tree or a blade of grass. Still, though, for most animals, the pattern of instinct, the patterns of their lives, are very strong. Humanity has a far greater range of possibilities, especially the very young. Who will children grow up to be? Who will they marry, what will they believe, what will they create? Creation is a very powerful seed of possibility.\u201d ...more There's an old proverb that goes something like, beware of what you wish for, for you may get it. So I wished (asked the publisher) for a copy of the upcoming Mercy Thompson book, Fire Touched . I got my wish, yay! And then I realized how many books are between book #5, where I was, and Fire Touched, book #9. Plus there's an Alpha and Omega book that, I've been reliably informed, absolutely needs to be read right after River Marked . So I'll be plowing through these books in the next few weeks! Lu There's an old proverb that goes something like, beware of what you wish for, for you may get it. So I wished (asked the publisher) for a copy of the upcoming Mercy Thompson book, Fire Touched . I got my wish, yay! And then I realized how many books are between book #5, where I was, and Fire Touched, book #9. Plus there's an Alpha and Omega book that, I've been reliably informed, absolutely needs to be read right after River Marked . So I'll be plowing through these books in the next few weeks! Luckily my library is well-stocked with this series. Anyway. River Marked is the story that takes place mostly during Mercy's honeymoon, which starts off wonderfully and then goes south in a way that only Mercy's life can, with something very ancient, fearsome and hungry in the water. It's worse than Jaws for making you afraid to go in the water. A fair amount of Native American mythology--or Briggs' variation on it, anyway--is woven into the storyline, along with the usual suspects (werewolves, vampires and fae). There's a fascinating revelation about Mercy's father. And, briefly, about Max Schrek! Who knew (view spoiler) [ Shrek was really a vampire (hide spoiler) ] ?? Full review to come.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 4.5/5.0 *warning* a huge torrent of gushing admiration about to commence... I now understand people who are so blinded by their love of an author, they truly believe they can write no wrong (listen closely Lisa Kleypas fans) The eye rolling is over, I am officially capitulating and stand repentant... I am now one of you - with Patricia Briggs. I love everything about the way she writes. Her Mercedes Thompson series is humorous, suspenseful, touching, warm, scary, inventive, romantic - everything, 4.5/5.0 *warning* a huge torrent of gushing admiration about to commence... I now understand people who are so blinded by their love of an author, they truly believe they can write no wrong (listen closely Lisa Kleypas fans) The eye rolling is over, I am officially capitulating and stand repentant... I am now one of you - with Patricia Briggs. I love everything about the way she writes. Her Mercedes Thompson series is humorous, suspenseful, touching, warm, scary, inventive, romantic - everything, just everything I love in a story! Even with six of them now under her belt, the quality is never better. In River Marked, Mercedes and Adam's relationship is given the much needed attention it deserves. Briggs ability to write a couple so real yet so sigh-worthy while keeping their animal natures in tact is incredible. They are both strong characters, allowed to be even stronger through their love for each other. The author's genius is even more apparent when considering this is done without the use of graphic sex scenes to bolster those emotions. While the plot-line of a water monster was not as riveting to me as others have been, the interest and page-turning suspense was still present right along with the touch of humor that makes Mercedes such a beloved character. ...more 4 \"Who is Mercy Thompson?\" Stars for the story and 5 Stars for the narration! Six books into the series and the Mercy Thompson Series is still holding strong as one of my favorite PNR/UF romance series of all time. All that said, this wasn't my favorite book in the series. To me, this book almost read as a stand-alone with a somewhat different focus than the prior books in the series. In that regard, the main driver of the plot in this book was discovering Mercy's previously alluded to, but yet 4 \"Who is Mercy Thompson?\" Stars for the story and 5 Stars for the narration! Six books into the series and the Mercy Thompson Series is still holding strong as one of my favorite PNR/UF romance series of all time. All that said, this wasn't my favorite book in the series. To me, this book almost read as a stand-alone with a somewhat different focus than the prior books in the series. In that regard, the main driver of the plot in this book was discovering Mercy's previously alluded to, but yet to be explained real background. And while the shape shifter and American Indian lore was fascinating, it gave this book a slightly different feel than the others in the series which focus more on the werewolf packs, vampire and fae. Additionally, the setting of the story--Mercy's and Adam's honeymoon--removes them a bit from the usual cast of characters which also sets a different tone. Lorelei King as always renders fantastic narration. Staying true to all of the multitude of voices that she has already created and performed in prior books, while also adding in a whole series of new ones. Ms. King's ability to convey the emotion and action of the scene is also highly instrumental in the enjoyment of this sixth installment in the Mercy Thompson Series. Source: Library-loan. ...more Okay, I finished this last night and I'm not going to do any type of in-depth review, but I wanted to get a few thoughts down. I think people will either love this book or feel a bit meh about it. The book is very much about two things: Adam and Mercy's relationship and Mercy's...biological roots. I think that the outside conflict of the \"big bad\" is instead used to support the development of those two stories, rather than being the driving force of the book. I enjoyed this. This book contains a Okay, I finished this last night and I'm not going to do any type of in-depth review, but I wanted to get a few thoughts down. I think people will either love this book or feel a bit meh about it. The book is very much about two things: Adam and Mercy's relationship and Mercy's...biological roots. I think that the outside conflict of the \"big bad\" is instead used to support the development of those two stories, rather than being the driving force of the book. I enjoyed this. This book contains a lot more lore--Indian lore, giving us (and Mercy) more insight into who she is and where she comes from. Readers who aren't into that might not enjoy this book. On the whole, I appreciated that this was a further development of Mercy's character and her relationship with Adam, but some readers may have preferred that the author not focus on those elements and instead spotlight outside conflicts like in some of the previous books. But, overall, this is a great installment in the Mercedes Thompson series and I don't hesitate to recommend it. (and if you have an ounce of a romantic in your soul, you'll get a little misty-eyed at the very end part of the book, but I won't give it away!) ...more *** 4 *** So once again I have to write something about a book in the Mercy Thompson world and I feel like anything I say would be redundant... I love the strongly influenced by the Native American culture of storytelling and mythology tale Patricia Briggs has gifted us with. I love the characters she has created and managed to enthrall us with. I love the creativity the world is build upon and the unobtrusive descriptiveness everything from the smallest action to the wildest character feature a *** 4 *** So once again I have to write something about a book in the Mercy Thompson world and I feel like anything I say would be redundant... I love the strongly influenced by the Native American culture of storytelling and mythology tale Patricia Briggs has gifted us with. I love the characters she has created and managed to enthrall us with. I love the creativity the world is build upon and the unobtrusive descriptiveness everything from the smallest action to the wildest character feature are painted with... See, I know I am fan-girling and know not what to do about it - I just love this series!!! This storyline was slower, more subdued, and singularly focused on Adam and Mercy spending time with each other as a new committed couple. Going camping in nature seems like a good idea at first, but obviously trouble keeps finding our part time coyote everywhere. Once again she has to save the day, and on the way she gets to learn more about her native American heritage and possibly her father... There is danger, love, friendships, and hidden agendas as always, expanding our understanding of Mercy's nature... I recommend this book to all fans of the series and the Urban Fantasy genre. Happy reading to all!!! :-) ...more Picture of the Columbia River Gorge, by Doug Porter [image error] \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 (This is a review of the audiobook.) This sixth installment of Mercy Thompson\u2019s series is very well narrated by Lorelei King . Ms. King certainly has cemented her voice as Mercy\u2019s in my brain and she delivers nicely for this first person narrative. Love her Italian accent for Stefan (a vampire), who features in the opening scenes of this volume. It has kind of a \u201cI want to drink your blood\u2026\u201d cadence to it, but Ms. King totally Picture of the Columbia River Gorge, by Doug Porter [image error] \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 (This is a review of the audiobook.) This sixth installment of Mercy Thompson\u2019s series is very well narrated by Lorelei King . Ms. King certainly has cemented her voice as Mercy\u2019s in my brain and she delivers nicely for this first person narrative. Love her Italian accent for Stefan (a vampire), who features in the opening scenes of this volume. It has kind of a \u201cI want to drink your blood\u2026\u201d cadence to it, but Ms. King totally gets away with it. Nevertheless, without giving away spoilers, this one is mainly about Adam and Mercy. We get to peer into a different, sweet, romantically intimate side of their relationship as they get even closer. They end up camping in the Columbia River Gorge area and eventually battling evil; (view spoiler) [ a creature that lurks beneath the water (hide spoiler) ] . Mercy also gets some answers about her Native American Indian father she never knew. This one is a little different; no mechanic\u2019s shop, very little pack interaction. (Thanks goodness Jesse made a phone call to complain to her father about Darryl.) And the pace seemed slower to me, too, though Ms. Briggs always has a nice way of setting future scenes up without me even knowing it. So, it is a given that it must be read, if you\u2019re planning on continuing this wonderful Urban Fantasy series that has a touch more romance this time around. Anyone who has researched Patricia Briggs knows that she was strongly influenced by magic and fairy tales. This one is loaded with them, most of them Indian legends, and they are pretty neat. Stonehenge Memorial at Maryhill, Washington <--February, 2013[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I LOVE the Mercedes Thompson series!!!!!!!!! okay, so now that that's out of the way. Mrs. Briggs....you best bring my boy Stephan and his mystery machine back. or we gonna have a few issues. *************************** after reading ******************************************* STEFAN WAS BACK! not in a way i expected but yes he was indeed back. Thank you Ms. Briggs. This book was pretty good, I felt you could see more of Mercy and Adams relationship develop and how they've grown, and how Mercy has I LOVE the Mercedes Thompson series!!!!!!!!! okay, so now that that's out of the way. Mrs. Briggs....you best bring my boy Stephan and his mystery machine back. or we gonna have a few issues. *************************** after reading ******************************************* STEFAN WAS BACK! not in a way i expected but yes he was indeed back. Thank you Ms. Briggs. This book was pretty good, I felt you could see more of Mercy and Adams relationship develop and how they've grown, and how Mercy has grown as a person and is not just impulsive but now thinks about the consequences of her actions. Pretty good book. ...more Woo-hoo!!! Bring on a new Mercy, I can't wait :) :) :) :) Loved spending time with Adam and Mercy again! Lorelei King's narration as usual was amazing! She always has amazing covers, I can't wait! Most excellent! Going into River Marked I was very nervous. Especially when the wedding gets sped up and things happen lightening fast. A lot of fans won't agree with me, but at this point Mercy and Adam haven't gotten a lot of page time together. Most importantly when the stuff is going down Adam is always somewhere else, out of order, or something so that Mercy can save the day by herself. Thankfully River Mark is the book where Mercy and Adam really get to interact. A lot of people have told Most excellent! Going into River Marked I was very nervous. Especially when the wedding gets sped up and things happen lightening fast. A lot of fans won't agree with me, but at this point Mercy and Adam haven't gotten a lot of page time together. Most importantly when the stuff is going down Adam is always somewhere else, out of order, or something so that Mercy can save the day by herself. Thankfully River Mark is the book where Mercy and Adam really get to interact. A lot of people have told me that they've known each other for 10 years and they don't need to have so much development time. But all of that happened before this series started and I didn't get to see it! That's off page development. When Mercy and Adam where together in previous books I enjoyed them together. There was heat, I saw them as a couple. But once they were mated and stuff I didn't think they had enough time to develop. The books are kind of small and there's a huge cast of characters that all get explored. I loved seeing them exploring how to be together, how to fight and deal with when they should fight. Stuff like that. It made them feel like a real couple and for me the last book really took some shortcuts in developing characters. So it was bliss to see Mercy and Adam so fleshed out. I adore them together and look forward to them working together. (Maybe Adam won't be passed out next time and they really get to work together. Though if he gets \u201cleft behind\u201d or stopped from helping Mercy again I'm going to be exasperated.) Since Mercy and Adam leave the Tri-Cities that means there's not a lot of time for favorite side characters. But they are covered, so I don't think fans should gripe too much. River Marked helps to finally give some answers to Mercy's father and some other questions. Though I still ended up with a lot of questions about Mercy, a walkers powers, and so on. The Native American mythology is lovely and I love how well researched some of the places are. It was perfect. Not to mention how much I have longed to read Coyote in the Mercy verse. I knew he had to pop up! And yes. It was a glorious thing. Not to mention how much I loved the monster. There is always something decidedly creepy-wrong about water monsters. River Devil is one of the scariest monsters I've read, definitely the scariest water monster, and I'm going to be hard pressed to read a scarier one! In the end River Marked restored my faith in the series. Bringing back the character development that I NEED from this series. I am very curious which new characters may be coming back later. While the oldies didn't get much page time, the newbies are tons of fun and I loved them. Briggs is a champ at creating wonderful characters and I can't get enough of the ones she brings into the Mercy books. I'm really happy that this book helps to flesh out Mercy's heritage, even if it still leaves a ton of questions floating around. I loved the different feel of River Marked. Where there was only one bad guy and the book wasn't crammed with a ton of crazy mysteries and problems that Mercy has to solve. It was great getting a slower pace, though it's still a crazy rush of a read, and finally get the time to develop Mercy and Adam together. Even better together outside of the pack. I look forward to enjoying them as a married couple and can't wait to see what happens next! Trouble always finds Mercy. Sexual Content: There are sex scenes but there the more classic fade to black, with a few \u201cdirty\u201d mentions. Wink Sexual humor and such. 5/5- Fabulous, a beautiful obsession! Originally posted at Book Whispers . ...more I really enjoyed this latest Mercy Thompson book. I think that watching Adam and Mercy get married and have a honeymoon was great fun, especially since we all know Mercy can't go 5 minutes without a new enemy. This time, the Fae are involved in their honeymoon plans, which can come to no good. But we get (for the first time) a bit of her Native American heritage here. We learn about Mercy's father. We also see a lot of Coyote, the Coyote. In this book, Mercy is up against an ancient river monster a I really enjoyed this latest Mercy Thompson book. I think that watching Adam and Mercy get married and have a honeymoon was great fun, especially since we all know Mercy can't go 5 minutes without a new enemy. This time, the Fae are involved in their honeymoon plans, which can come to no good. But we get (for the first time) a bit of her Native American heritage here. We learn about Mercy's father. We also see a lot of Coyote, the Coyote. In this book, Mercy is up against an ancient river monster and some Otterkin who are eating all the swimmers. The river monster can \"mark\" a human with her tentacles, and that person (now \"river marked\") follows her directions, whether it's drown yourself, drown your children, or bring her more people, they obey. And Mercy is the only one who can stop her. The middle of the book is fairly slow, but the ending is great, and I loved seeing all the other gods like Coyote, and the ending is abrupt as always, but she had to use the walking stick of hers as a weapon. Giving a fae artifact blood is never a good idea. But I love how she handled it. And hello Adam! I loved him, LOVED him in this installment-wish we'd seen more of him. Overall another great installment in the Mercedes Thompson series, if a bit slow at times. http://www.demonloversbooksandmore.co... ...more I'm sorry, this is going to come across as completely selfish but so be it, I didn't care what happened to anyone in this book EXCEPT Mercy & Adam. Saying that, the first 2/3 of the book involved a story I didn't care for with a group of people I cared less about. Yeah, I know, I'm a bitch. But I want Mercy and Adam, and I want them with the pack. So sue me, I'm selfish. I don't understand why so many people liked this book so much less than the others. It's my absolute favorite so far. I love, love, LOVED it. I've always loved Native American Folklore though. But that's just me. I love the Mercy Thompson books, so I went into this one with high expectations. And it was good; it just wasn't great. Pros- It's a Mercy Thompson book. That alone put it on my instant read list. I adore Mercy's world and the characters within. Briggs has created a truly wonderful and enjoyable universe for us to enjoy. As always in this series, Briggs displays her strength as a great author. I don't remember any scene that I had to re-read or puzzle through. She paints such a vivid picture with h I love the Mercy Thompson books, so I went into this one with high expectations. And it was good; it just wasn't great. Pros- It's a Mercy Thompson book. That alone put it on my instant read list. I adore Mercy's world and the characters within. Briggs has created a truly wonderful and enjoyable universe for us to enjoy. As always in this series, Briggs displays her strength as a great author. I don't remember any scene that I had to re-read or puzzle through. She paints such a vivid picture with her words that I barely noticed that I was reading. It felt like I was there. Great characters. Really, do I need to say more? Cons- River Marked takes Mercy (and one other major character) out of the Tri-Cities and away from the pack, her friends, etc. It's missing (or there was only very brief appearances of) several side characters we've come to love. Her characters are so interesting that I missed them. Their absence lessened my enjoyment of this book. We meet new minor characters, but the rapport I had with the others is not there. I found one scene unnecessary and particularly disturbing. (view spoiler) [Did Briggs need to have the scenes with the children? Yes, I know it was for emotional impact, but I have a personal problem with parents (real or in fiction) killing their children. I understand she was controlled, but it truly disturbed me. Too many times in real life, parents (or people in a position of trust) have murdered children. Before I had my daughters that sort of news saddened me, but now it horrifies me. Thinking about those scenarios bothers me for days sometimes. I did not enjoy reading it, albeit in fiction. (hide spoiler) ] I enjoyed River Marked, but it is not the best Mercy Thompson book. Follow my reviews at Urban Fantasies Read and Reviewed . ...more Angela is re-reading this and stuff and has so graciously allowed to me to read along and continue the series with her. If it weren't for Angela I wouldn't have given this series a second shot and I am really glad I did. I definitely owe her. The last two books sucked for me and if they sucked for you too, all I can tell you is to have faith because this one gets better. Infinitely better. It was worth every minute I spend reading it. Adam and Mercy have one of the best relationships ever and Adam Angela is re-reading this and stuff and has so graciously allowed to me to read along and continue the series with her. If it weren't for Angela I wouldn't have given this series a second shot and I am really glad I did. I definitely owe her. The last two books sucked for me and if they sucked for you too, all I can tell you is to have faith because this one gets better. Infinitely better. It was worth every minute I spend reading it. Adam and Mercy have one of the best relationships ever and Adam is just *swoon* But more than that, they are both strong characters and aren't afraid to depend on each other. You won't get passive aggressive shit when it comes to them. You'll get a well developed romance where communication is a thing. You'll get characters who listen to each other and protect each other and you'll even have possessiveness portrayed in a healthy manner (I know.. I know.. :P IT HAPPENS). Their romance is just SO SWEET. This book provides you with a well developed plot. I don't know nearly as much about Native American folklore as I would like to but it definitely feels like the author did her research. In the end, this book was thoroughly enjoyable and I cannot convey in enough words how glad I am I actually read it and decided not to give up on this series. I cannot wait to dive into the next one (whenever I get time). ...more I was very excited getting my hands on this book. I love all of the Mercy books; I love the world and all of the characters. This book was a little flat for me when compared to the other books in the series. Don't get me wrong. Mercy and Adam are wonderful together. I love how Mercy can tame the wild side of Adam's wolf. I love their connection. I just didn't feel the story, even though when I think of it, the story is fine. I was so happy for Mercy and Adam. Finally married in a beautiful ceremo I was very excited getting my hands on this book. I love all of the Mercy books; I love the world and all of the characters. This book was a little flat for me when compared to the other books in the series. Don't get me wrong. Mercy and Adam are wonderful together. I love how Mercy can tame the wild side of Adam's wolf. I love their connection. I just didn't feel the story, even though when I think of it, the story is fine. I was so happy for Mercy and Adam. Finally married in a beautiful ceremony engineered by Jesse and Mercy's mom, the happy couple leaves for their honeymoon. I found that their honeymoon location was a strange choice - camping at a Columbia River campsite, but it was a good set up for the story. The other wonderful characters of Mercy's world were missing for me. Yes, there were cameo appearances by Stefan, Warren, Kyle, and Jesse, just not enough of them and the rest of the pack. I did like the Native American lore and I enjoyed learning more about Mercy's background. The walking stick makes an interesting and most useful appearance. I am still looking forward to more Mercy books. I just wish we didn\u2019t have to wait so long! ...more DNF ~ 35% Since I started this book in January, I've been wanting to finish it any day, but I can't make myself to do it. Every time I pick up the book to read it, there is always some other book more interesting than this. It really is very very boring. I loved the first books in the series, they were really refreshing and interesting, but now it's offering nothing new to me. Maybe I'm done with these long series, although there are some very good ones that still amaze me even after 10-12 books. DNF ~ 35% Since I started this book in January, I've been wanting to finish it any day, but I can't make myself to do it. Every time I pick up the book to read it, there is always some other book more interesting than this. It really is very very boring. I loved the first books in the series, they were really refreshing and interesting, but now it's offering nothing new to me. Maybe I'm done with these long series, although there are some very good ones that still amaze me even after 10-12 books. This isn't the case, though and I have to tell Goodbye to Mercy...Maybe someday... ...more 1st Read July 23 to 24, 2012 This was great!!! I loved everyone and that walking stick is amazing(I want one as cool as it as soon as I can find it :D)! PS: I know I'll re-read this sometime, I had so much fun reading it! 2nd Read June 26 to 28, 2015 Found this book just didn't hold my interest. It's not the same character as in the previous books and I fear Briggs has focused more on the spin offs and written this merely to fullfil a contract. The Mercy we've come to know is a strong character, from introduction in this she's become a flippant caricature. She visits Stefan simply because it's necessary to mention some of the side characters and acts completely out of character (view spoiler) [casually feeding a vampire when previously she's b Found this book just didn't hold my interest. It's not the same character as in the previous books and I fear Briggs has focused more on the spin offs and written this merely to fullfil a contract. The Mercy we've come to know is a strong character, from introduction in this she's become a flippant caricature. She visits Stefan simply because it's necessary to mention some of the side characters and acts completely out of character (view spoiler) [casually feeding a vampire when previously she's been so wary of being controlled? then taking him to Warren's to feed ignoring Kyle? The horrid flippancy regarding her rape which went beyond a defensive bravado. The contempt towards the pack acting protective in Adam's absence. (hide spoiler) ] I don't like the reasoning that Mercy is too honourable to help Stefan but Adam will enforce something on her behalf, and get Warren to act gofer. It's manipulative and dispicable. Mercy from old would face up and fight for her people not get someone else to act for her so she can remain innocent with clean hands. The wedding was cutesy and ok but Adam also acts out of character accepting the favour from the Fae and while he turns from alpha werewolf to petulant teen about his reasoning, there's no denying it's naive and beneath him. His presence in this book is reduced to looking good and showing his physical strength. I'll likely read the next book but it'll be the make or break for me, after this my interest in the series is wanning. ...more", "Title": "River Marked"},
