{"Comments": "I wrote this book so I can hardly be expected to be objective! I had sworn off any and all novels dealing with racial themes set in the South. There is only so much self-flagellating I can do in a year in penance for things in which I had no part. Certainly I realize that the theme is worth exploring, and that if you want to write a book set in the South, especially between the years covering Reconstruction through the Civil Rights era, race is going to play a part. This is all well and good, and admirable in that examining the past through the gauze of fic I had sworn off any and all novels dealing with racial themes set in the South. There is only so much self-flagellating I can do in a year in penance for things in which I had no part. Certainly I realize that the theme is worth exploring, and that if you want to write a book set in the South, especially between the years covering Reconstruction through the Civil Rights era, race is going to play a part. This is all well and good, and admirable in that examining the past through the gauze of fiction can get at some of the smaller truths and nuances that non-fiction just can't.<---F> I was just weary of it</---F>. But a galley came in for this book, and I wish I could tell you what made me bring it home to read, but I honestly don't remember. Maybe it was the first paragraph. \"Henry and I dug the hole seven feet deep. Any shallower and the corpse was liable to come rising up during the next big flood: Howdy boys! Remember me? The thought of it kept us digging even after the blisters on our palms had burst, reformed and burst again. Every shovelful was an agony -- the old man, getting in his last licks. Still, I was glad of the pain. It shoved away thought and memory.\" Well,<---M> this was intriguing</---M>, so I flipped a few more pages in and stumbled on this: \"When I think of the farm, I think of mud. Limning my husband's fingernails and encrusting the children's knees and hair. Sucking at my feet like a greedy newborn on the breast. Marching in boot-shaped patches across the plank floors of the house. There was no defeating it. The mud coated everything. I dreamed in brown.\" It was at this point I got flashes of Ron Rash's brilliant One Foot in Eden , and my resolve to step away from novels that mention Jim Crow on their jacket blurbs faded away. Sometimes it is a good thing I don't stick to a plan. <---A>Hillary Jordan</---A>'s Bellwether Prize winning novel subtly captures all the nuances of the South -- the uneasy inter-reliance the races have always had on each other; the familial ties that often defy explanation; and the realization that it was the fertile ground for change tilled during World War II in which the seeds of social change were planted. <+++>Mudbound</+++> is written in the alternating voices of the McAllan and Jackson families. They are bound together by the sharecropping arrangement between the two families, one white (<---B>the McAllans</---B>), the other black (the Jacksons). Jamie McAllan and Ronsel Jackson have both served their time in service to the country, and they each find themselves returning to a home that is at once familiar as air and foreign as Europe once was for them. Ronsel, especially, must cope with the memory of the sense of equality he enjoyed while in Europe and the abrupt return to the status quo of an unchanged South. Equally as off-balance in this world is <---C>Laura McAllan</---C>. She was raised in gentility, and the family land to which her husband is pledged is a far cry from anything she had ever known. Married to Jamie's brother, whose solid nature has, with familiarity, become thuddingly dull, Laura is rejuvenated by the handsome returning war veteran, Jamie. In him she sees the possibility of an awakening. The stage is set for disaster when Jamie and Ronsel strike up a friendship forged by the bonds of war, and from the moment that is set in motion until the final paragraph, I was riveted. The real treasure in this novel, however, lies in Jordan's masterful writing which captures every subtle gradation of the nature of the relationships between families of different races who depend on each other with a mixture of respect, fear, loathing, and affection. Nowhere is this dichotomy more eloquent than in a passage in which Laura speaks of Florence Jackson's daughter, Lilly May, who often accompanies her mother to the McAllan's house while Florence cleans the house. Laura speaks of Lilly May's beautiful voice: \"The first time I head her, I was playing the piano and teaching the girls the words to 'Amazing Grace' when Lilly May joined in from the front porch, where she was shelling peas. I've always prided myself on my singing voice but when I heard hers I was so humbled I was struck dumb. Her voice had no earthly clay in it, just a sure sweet grace that was both a yielding and a promise. Anyone who believes that Negroes are not God's children never heard Lilly May Jackson sing to Him. This is not to say that I thought of Florence and her family as equal to me and mine. I called her Florence and she called me Miz McAllan. She and Lilly May didn't use our outhouse, but did their business in the bushes out back. And when we sat down to the noon meal, the two of them ate outside on the porch.\" <+++>Mudbound</+++> took my breath away, and if Ms. Jordan's novel doesn't wind up with several more honors for it I'll be surprised. ...more A family tale set in Mississippi between the 1930\u2019s and the 19??s Jordan uses multiple narrators to offer varying perspectives on the happenings of the story. Laura is on the fast track to old maid-hood after her 30th birthday when she is introduced to Henry. He is smitten, and she likes him well enough. Marriage is fine with her, but when a death in the family throws long-term plans onto the scrapheap, Henry announces that in two weeks they will be moving to a remote part of Mississippi to take A family tale set in Mississippi between the 1930\u2019s and the 19??s Jordan uses multiple narrators to offer varying perspectives on the happenings of the story. Laura is on the fast track to old maid-hood after her 30th birthday when she is introduced to Henry. He is smitten, and she likes him well enough. Marriage is fine with her, but when a death in the family throws long-term plans onto the scrapheap, Henry announces that in two weeks they will be moving to a remote part of Mississippi to take over a farm. It comes to be called Mudbound, for obvious reasons. The novel tells of race relations in the deepest south, offering several views of the hardships of farming life. Two soldiers return to town from World War II in Europe. Henry\u2019s brother Jamie is a much (19 years) younger man, charming, a pilot, damaged by his war experience, (turning to alcohol to try to smother his recent visions of war and his still-sharp recollection of a near-death experience he had as a child) and of dubious character in any case. (Is there really any there there?) He becomes friends with Ronsel Jackson, the black son of one of Henry\u2019s tenants, a successful, handsome member of a black tank corps. He had been a hero in Germany, was accepted there and in other parts of Europe as a man, not as a black, but back home, the deep south remains the deep south and bigotry defines the limits of civilization. This was a very fast read, a page-turner. Jordan does a nice job of slowly ramping up the tension until the climactic action. I cannot say that that action was enjoyable, per se, but it did make sense in the universe of the novel. Jordan has given us a portrait of a particular place in a particular time, the Jim Crow deep south circa WW II. There are references to the current age, but I do not believe it to be her purpose to tell a tale of the contemporary time. Although one might see Laura as the core of this story, I believe it is Jamie around whom everything else moves. His relationship with Laura, the up and the down, help her define her relationship with Henry and with the world. His relationship with Ronsel is crucial to the dramatic events that follow. It is in the light of his personality that others see themselves more clearly. There is much here about being heard, who can speak, and who, ultimately, is silenced. I have seen criticism about the use of stock characters here, and that is not without merit. Southern bigots are given only one coat of paint, as are strong black characters. Nonetheless, and in particular considering that this is a first novel, it is forgivable. This is not great literature, but offers no pretense to that. It is a fine read, well worth the ride. PS - I have also reviewed Jordan's subsequent novel, When She Woke ...more Social justice (and literature) lite This book and I hit it off at first. It\u2019s a quick, easy read and I enjoyed the first 2/3 or so. But looking back, I wouldn\u2019t recommend it to anyone. Mudbound is about two families living in the Mississippi Delta: one black and one white. It\u2019s 1946 and racial tensions are high: the black GIs returning from WW2 are no longer willing to put up with being second-class citizens, but the white population is equally unwilling to allow change. The book is written in th Social justice (and literature) lite This book and I hit it off at first. It\u2019s a quick, easy read and I enjoyed the first 2/3 or so. But looking back, I wouldn\u2019t recommend it to anyone. Mudbound is about two families living in the Mississippi Delta: one black and one white. It\u2019s 1946 and racial tensions are high: the black GIs returning from WW2 are no longer willing to put up with being second-class citizens, but the white population is equally unwilling to allow change. The book is written in the first person from 6 (six!) different viewpoints (and a debut novel at that.... had I not loved Jordan\u2019s When She Woke I would never have attempted this), including Ronsel (a black soldier), Hap and Florence (his parents), Jaime (a white soldier), Henry (his older brother) and Laura (Henry\u2019s wife). To her credit, Jordan does do a passable job with the multiple narrators, who don\u2019t sound too much alike--the streamlined nature of the writing, without much figurative language or description, helps with this, and the dialect works well enough without being impenetrable. As I said, I liked the story at first; it drew me in quickly and entertained me. But there isn\u2019t much more I can say for it. So, then, the problems: THE PLOT: Terribly predictable (and melodramatic). One-third of the way through I predicted all the dramatic events that would happen in the rest of the book. And I\u2019m not usually good at that. THE CHARACTERS: The black family are stock characters of the \u201csympathetic victims\u201d variety: hardworking, family-values folk. Hap is the forgiving, scripture-quoting preacher. Florence is the closer-to-earth midwife. Ronsel is the bright young guy who's beat down by the system. They have potential but are too stuck in their stock roles and personalities to realize it. The white family is more complex (they\u2019re allowed to have flaws), but not much more. Henry is a simple man who loves farming: exactly the same on the inside as he appears from the outside. His father, Pappy, is the stock evil racist with no redeeming qualities. Laura gets a lot of page time (and her voice feels the most authentic), but she\u2019s pathetic; she\u2019s pathetically grateful to Henry for marrying her at the ripe old age of 31 and despite a few attempts to act for herself, she\u2019s still pathetic at the end. (Bizarrely, in an interview in the back of the book Jordan states that Laura is based on her own grandmother, but \"much more fiery and rebellious\"--since neither adjective describes Laura in the slightest, I can only conclude either that Jordan's grandmother was an automaton, or, more likely, that Jordan utterly failed at turning the idea in her head into a character on the page.) Jamie is the most interesting of the bunch: he seems like a basically good guy whose PTSD leads him into destructive behavior, and he\u2019s racist in a subtle, Huckleberry-Finn kind of way (at least, the other white characters make him look subtle; more on that later). THE SETTING: Black and white, in more ways than one. Essentially, the rural South = bad; cities, or anywhere in Europe = good. \u201cViolence is part and parcel of country life,\u201d Laura tells us, and to prove the point, Jordan includes a family of bit-part characters that do nothing but rape, murder, and drunkenly shoot off guns (and these are the only farm people we meet aside from the main characters). The Mississippi Delta is full of violent racists, while the Memphis-bred Laura has apparently never even heard of Jim Crow. Europe, meanwhile, is a colorblind paradise; even German women are happy to sleep with black men and have their babies mere months after their own government finished murdering millions of pale-skinned people for not being white enough. (I\u2019m not disputing that similar liaisons happened, but I do dispute the \u201ccolorblind paradise\u201d portrayal. Read Andrea Levy\u2019s Small Island for a more nuanced portrayal of wartime and post-war England; as for Germany, well, I should think the attempt to massacre all non-Aryans to create a \"master race\" speaks for itself.) Finally, Jordan\u2019s failure to get even easily verifiable facts right makes me doubt her overall portrayal. The two closest towns to the McAllens\u2019 farm are Greenville and Marietta.... and while Greenville really is a Delta town, Marietta is actually over 200 miles away in the northeast part of the state. THE MESSAGE: Several underwhelmed reviewers have mocked the Bellwether Prize, which is meant to recognize a book that advances social justice in some way. I think the prize is a good idea. But the Washington Post nailed this one: \u201cthe book doesn't challenge our prejudices so much as give us the easy satisfaction of feeling superior to these evil Southerners.\u201d The thing is, to advance social justice, you have to be timely. Tackle, say, the drug war\u2019s disproportionate impact on minority communities, the poor quality of education in inner-city schools, the location of environmental hazards in minority neighborhoods. There\u2019s no end to current social justice issues that Jordan might have written about. Instead, her message is one that even most unreformed racists of today wouldn\u2019t dispute: racially motivated hate crimes are bad, folks! It's no wonder most people like this book: its message is so uncontroversial that nobody is uncomfortable with it. But you can't change society by hammering home points everybody already agrees with. (In fairness to Jordan, her second novel does take on timely, controversial issues; predictably, its reception has been more mixed. But it\u2019s also so much better.) In the end, I don\u2019t hate this book. If you want a quick, unchallenging read about the evils of racism, it may be the book for you. If you\u2019re looking for some redeeming social or literary value, though, best look elsewhere. ...more It is wonderful that an author can write something like this as their debut novel. I enjoyed it so much! I liked the way the author presented each chapter from the point of view of a different character. This way we got to discover what each individual was really like rather than seeing them only from another persons view. It was very noticeable that one character was never given this opportunity to speak and it was a good thing! The book opens in a very captivating way with a scene which is repea It is wonderful that an author can write something like this as their debut novel. I enjoyed it so much! I liked the way the author presented each chapter from the point of view of a different character. This way we got to discover what each individual was really like rather than seeing them only from another persons view. It was very noticeable that one character was never given this opportunity to speak and it was a good thing! The book opens in a very captivating way with a scene which is repeated towards the end. I had to go back and read it again to reinterpret it with the knowledge I had gained from reading the book. It was very cleverly done. I was also grateful for the author's input at the end which lets us know what probably happened to the characters later in life. I often dislike books which leave me to draw my own conclusions and I was very satisfied to see what was going to happen to Ronsel. He deserved a good life. A very good book, well written and enjoyable despite its uncomfortable subject matter. ...more This wonderful books was a pleasant surprise for me... Must read... You would think that with Uncle Tom's Cabin and with Roots we had enough of such topics... but no... Unfortunately due to no marketing efforts from the publisher the book went unnoticed on Serbian market... Pity, great book! Aren\u2019t there times you wish you could give a book more than 5 stars? Like The Help or The Kitchen House, this is one of those books I guess which will continue to resonate, and linger in the mind. It's told by each character in turn, so we hear lots of different voices as the tale progresses, and we can witness the way they see the events unfolding. It reads a bit like a thriller, where the tension is building up and you know something bad is going to happen. It's set in the Delta (Mississippi) Aren\u2019t there times you wish you could give a book more than 5 stars? Like The Help or The Kitchen House, this is one of those books I guess which will continue to resonate, and linger in the mind. It's told by each character in turn, so we hear lots of different voices as the tale progresses, and we can witness the way they see the events unfolding. It reads a bit like a thriller, where the tension is building up and you know something bad is going to happen. It's set in the Delta (Mississippi) just after World War Two. We experience that in the Deep South of the USA little had changed since the abolition of slavery. It\u2019s powerful and dramatic and so well-written that it was hard to put down. This is an impressive first novel. Hilary Jordan did a fantastic job giving these characters a real voice, letting them speak in their specific languages. I could hear Hap and Florence and it was like they were talking directly to me. To me Ronsel is the real hero and I hope that all the \"could have beens\" at the end turn out to become reality for this exceptional young man. If you are looking for a beautiful, human, intelligent and gripping read, look no further. ...more There's a lot of depth here for such a fast, cleanly-written read. Several themes are woven into the lives of the various characters. First, the senseless intensity of the racism in the deep South of the 1940s. Second, the haunted struggles of men who came home from WWII and couldn't make a place for themselves back among their own people. Third, the frustration and loneliness of an isolated Mississippi farm wife, building into desperation and rage. The combination of these difficulties causes t There's a lot of depth here for such a fast, cleanly-written read. Several themes are woven into the lives of the various characters. First, the senseless intensity of the racism in the deep South of the 1940s. Second, the haunted struggles of men who came home from WWII and couldn't make a place for themselves back among their own people. Third, the frustration and loneliness of an isolated Mississippi farm wife, building into desperation and rage. The combination of these difficulties causes the buildup of tensions that lead to some gruesome and heart-wrenching consequences. This story is told through the alternating voices of six characters. At first it feels disconnected, like it's just switching around among a bunch of separate stories. Be patient. As you get further into the book, the pieces all come together until the people are all telling their part of the same story. Change comes slowly, but it does come. I kept thinking of how the Southern crackers in this story would have guffawed loudly if anyone had told them that sixty years later we would elect a bi-racial president. ...more Mudbound: Hillary Jordan's Debut Novel Hillary Jordan, 2011 JAMIE \"Henry and I dug the hole seven feet deep. Any more shallower and the corpse was liable to come rising up during the next big flood. Howdy boys! Remember me? The thought of it kept us digging even after the blisters on our palms had burst, re-formed and burst again. Every shovelful was an agony--the old man getting in his last licks. Still, I was glad of the pain. It shoved away thoughts and memories.\" Henry and Jamie McAllan are Mudbound: Hillary Jordan's Debut Novel Hillary Jordan, 2011 JAMIE \"Henry and I dug the hole seven feet deep. Any more shallower and the corpse was liable to come rising up during the next big flood. Howdy boys! Remember me? The thought of it kept us digging even after the blisters on our palms had burst, re-formed and burst again. Every shovelful was an agony--the old man getting in his last licks. Still, I was glad of the pain. It shoved away thoughts and memories.\" Henry and Jamie McAllan are brothers digging the grave for their father, Pappy. In the words of Shakespeare, \"Nothing became him in life like the leaving it.\" To cut to the chase, Hillary Jordan wrote a fine debut novel. The setting is the Mississippi Delta in 1946. Big brother Henry, a veteran of World War One, and a hard working member of the Corp of Army Engineers, marries city bred Laura of Memphis, Tennessee. Laura is thirty-one, an English teacher, whose mother had feared she would die an old maid. Following their marriage, Laura is shocked to learn that Henry always wanted to be a farmer. He has bought two hundred acres of rich Delta dirt and packs Laura and their two daughters off to a wonderful home which he had rented for them to live in while he worked the farm. However, Henry, ever trustful, has been duped. When they arrive at the home, Henry and family learn that the previous owner has sold the home. With all the soldiers returning from World War Two, there are no other houses to rent. Mississippi Delta Cotton Field Not only does Henry need a home for his wife and daughters, he needs one for his Pappy. Pappy is a curmudgeonly old man who tyrannizes Laura and terrifies his granddaughters. It's off to Henry's farm which he wants to name \"Fair Fields.\" Laura who quickly learns the farm floods every time the river rises dubs it \"Mud Bound.\" Not only does the land flood, but their home is cut off from the nearest town. Jordan deftly weaves the lives of the McAllan and Jackson families into a riveting story. Hap and Florence Jackson are tenant farmers on Henry's land. Florence is the community's mid-wife and purveyor of folk remedies. Florence also comes to work for Laura in the McAllan home. What Jordan does to create such a compelling read is the use of multiple voices. Mudbound is told initially by Jamie, Laura, Henry, Hap, and Florence. To Jordan's credit, each voice is unique, and each member of this chorus adds their own perfect thoughts and observations to propel the novel from start to finish. Jordan really hits her stride when she adds Ronsel Jackson, the eldest son of Hap and Florence. Ronsel has served in the European theater of war as a member of the Black Panthers, famous for their furious assaults against the German Army. This was one of George Patton's favored units. The 761st Black Panthers whose motto was \"Come out Fighting\" Both Jamie and Ronsel carry the emotional scars of their combat. Both are decorated heroes. Jamie won the Distinguished Flying Cross flying B-24 Liberators. Ronsel rose to the rank of Tank Commander and has a chest full of medals. The experiences that haunt them bind them together as friends. But they are also bound by alcoholism to forget the nightmares of war. B-24 Liberator Heavy Bomber But we must remember this is Mississippi in the 1940s. Both men must deal with forbidden love. Jamie must handle his feelings for his brother's wife, Laura. Ronsel learns he has fathered a child by a German widow. Both Jamie and Ronsel must deal with the Ku Klux Klan. The final third of Jordan's novel speeds to a tumultuous conclusion. It is impossible to put this novel down until the final page is reached. There is a fine denoument awaiting the reader Jordan was born in Dallas, Texas, living there and in Muscogee, Oklahoma, until she attended Wellesley College. Her route to writing was a circuitous one. Jordan entered the world of advertising, and created a number of commercials featuring the Everready Bunny. Imagine that. Fortunately for readers of this novel, Jordan entered the MFA program in creative writing at Columbia University. Prior to its publication Mudbound won the prestigious Bellwether Prize for socially engaged fiction in 2008. The Prize was established by Barbara Kingsolver . Jordan is currently working on a sequel to Mudbound which picks up the action several years after the action in this work during the heart of the Civil Rights Movement. I can't wait. ...more This is a fast paced moving novel with several narrators. Set in the deep south immediately after WWII, the story examines the lives of hardworking farmers, passionate wives, members of the KKK, and the returning soldiers both black and white. The characters are fascinating and seemed real to me. I didn't want to see the story end. Mudbound is a story set in the Mississippi delta country in 1946. It is about complex relations between a white family that owns the land and a black family that helps to farm the land. It is also about war and the Jim Crow conditions that existed in the South during that era. Hillary Jordan, in her debut novel, took on the daunting task of presenting the story through the eyes of six different narrators. That would seem to be difficult enough, but making it even more difficult is the fact that t Mudbound is a story set in the Mississippi delta country in 1946. It is about complex relations between a white family that owns the land and a black family that helps to farm the land. It is also about war and the Jim Crow conditions that existed in the South during that era. Hillary Jordan, in her debut novel, took on the daunting task of presenting the story through the eyes of six different narrators. That would seem to be difficult enough, but making it even more difficult is the fact that there are both male and female narrators. Furthermore, three are white and three are black. The book (published in 2008) received almost universal critical acclaim. However (there almost always seems to be a however), I read one review which criticized the bouncing back and forth created by alternating narrators, saying that it disrupted the flow of the story. I don\u2019t buy that. I agree that if it had not been done with skill, it would have been a distraction. But it was done with great skill. I was reminded of David Payne\u2019s very fine novel, Ruin Creek (1993), in which he expertly told the story from the respective viewpoints of male and female narrators of different generations. But Jordan, who is white, did something even more daring by speaking with the voice of three black narrators, one female and two males \u2013 and she pulled it off. All of the principal characters are flawed to some degree or the other, but all have some redeeming qualities \u2013 except one. Pappy is a racist bigot of the worst kind. He hates black people, but then he doesn\u2019t have much use for white people either. He is a born hater. The reviewer who wrote the critical review mentioned earlier, found fault with how this character was presented, that he was unrealistic to the point of being \u201ccartoonish.\u201d But he isn\u2019t unrealistic; his type did exist, in fact, still exists. Times have changed, but people with Pappy\u2019s warped vision still exist in our society today. The reviewer summed up her criticism by saying that in the final analysis the novel failed because nobody \u201cchanged,\u201d and therefore what was the point? Well, the point might be, guess what, people don\u2019t always change. Sometimes there is no repentance or redemption. I suppose she expected them all to hold hands and sing Kumbaya at the end. But in this story, that would have been cartoonish. Reading this novel was like watching a slow motion train wreck that was about to occur. I knew something bad was going to happen, but I was powerless to do anything about it. It is not a good book for light summer reading at the beach, but it is a thought provoking book that deserves the wide readership that it has experienced and the favorable reviews that it has received. I ran across an interview with the author in which she is considering a sequel. Sequels are rarely as good as the original, but I would like to see what happens to these characters down the road. Who knows, maybe they will change. P.S. ~ Yes, I did focus on the negative review above, but I would be remiss if I didn't mention that there are a number of excellent, positive reviews of this book here at GR's and I recommend them for your reading enjoyment. ...more I approached this book with some trepidation. I knew this was going to be a raw read and wasn't sure if I was up for it. Within five pages,I was in up to my neck, totally engaged. YES, it was a tough read. I was angry most of the time, and when I wasn't angry, I despaired of the characters ability to escape the vortex of racism and despair that engulfed them. The story line revolves around the McAllans as they try to make something of a ramshackle farm in the delta and the Jackson family, one o I approached this book with some trepidation. I knew this was going to be a raw read and wasn't sure if I was up for it. Within five pages,I was in up to my neck, totally engaged. YES, it was a tough read. I was angry most of the time, and when I wasn't angry, I despaired of the characters ability to escape the vortex of racism and despair that engulfed them. The story line revolves around the McAllans as they try to make something of a ramshackle farm in the delta and the Jackson family, one of their tenant farmers. Their relationships with one another are showcased as events build to a horrific act of violence and it's aftermath. Despite the subject, the author engages the reader. Most of the major players in this southern drama have a voice and tell the story in their unique way.The Mississippi delta in the 1940's is the backdrop with an occasional foray into Germany toward the end of the WWII. The title,Mudbound, is a physical state after flooding rain, the name of the McAllan's farm and an emotional state of being for most of the characters. As difficult as the subject matter was, this was an enjoyable read. Tapping into the visceral emotions that racism that brings to the surface,the author engages the reader from page one. And despite the subject matter, she manages to instill a spark of hope. I look forward to more from this author. ...more Sad little book :-( Was it really like that? Probably. People are so inhuman. I liked this line, from the midwife \"When I met Laura McAllan she was out of her head with mama worry. When that mama worry takes ahold of a woman you can't expect no sense from her. She'll do or say anything at all and you just better hope you ain't in her way. That's the Lord's doing right there. He made mothers to be like that on account of children need protecting and the men ain't around to do it most of the time Sad little book :-( Was it really like that? Probably. People are so inhuman. I liked this line, from the midwife \"When I met Laura McAllan she was out of her head with mama worry. When that mama worry takes ahold of a woman you can't expect no sense from her. She'll do or say anything at all and you just better hope you ain't in her way. That's the Lord's doing right there. He made mothers to be like that on account of children need protecting and the men ain't around to do it most of the time. Something bad happen to a child, you can be sure his daddy gone be off somewhere else. Helping that child be up to the mama. But God never gives us a task without giving us the means to see it through. That mama worry come straight from Him, it make it so she can't help but look after that child.\" ...more I simply could not stop reading this book! Combining several voices the story traces a tragic incident in post World War II Mississippi. Not only does this book address Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome and the hardships of farming life, it also covers class issues, family issues, sexism and racism. These are characters I will not soon forget! While Mudbond was an inspiring story about post World War 2 Mississippi, the reality of the content was hard to take in. Don't get me wrong, this was a great, action-packed book, but some parts were so violent and disturbing that I had to brace myself to read on. In the Delta, whites believed that they were better then their African American counterparts. The premise of the book was to explain the tension between races on the local scale, and how the war changed the way America worked. As a fell While Mudbond was an inspiring story about post World War 2 Mississippi, the reality of the content was hard to take in. Don't get me wrong, this was a great, action-packed book, but some parts were so violent and disturbing that I had to brace myself to read on. In the Delta, whites believed that they were better then their African American counterparts. The premise of the book was to explain the tension between races on the local scale, and how the war changed the way America worked. As a fellow Goodreads reader put it, \"I wish I could tell you what made me bring it home to read, but I honestly don't remember. Maybe it was the first paragraph.\" I fully agree with this statement. The first paragraph of the book sets the scene for the excellent level of writing that is soon to come in the pages ahead. \"Henry and I dug the hole seven feet deep. Any shallower and the corpse was liable to come rising up during the next big flood: Howdy boys! Remember me? The thought of it kept us digging even after the blisters on our palms had burst, reformed and burst again.\" The McAllans and the Jacksons were the sharecroppers who defined the books plot, and showed just how real this situation could be during that time. When Jamie, Henry McAllans brother, and Ronsel, the Jackson's child, came home from the war their relationship became the conflict. Ronsel, an African American soldier was changed by the war, because over there, skin color didn't matter. The only thing you worried about was staying alive. The dynamic of friendship between Jamie and Ronsel, and the unchanged racism of the Delta, made the book a great read. For every bit of fiction there was in Mudbound, there was true stories that connected the book to real life. World War 2 really did leave African Americans with a sense of pride in themselves that hadn't been there before. Europeans didn't have the same racism as America, and they didn't judge people based on skin color. Therefore, when men came home, they realized their full potential, and knew they had to make things different. In addition, lynching was sadly a common thing in this time. Just as Ronsel had gotten his tongue cut out, so many more true stories like his actually happened. I think this harsh reality is what made the book so bitter-sweet. On one hand, I got sucked up in the action of Mudbound, but on the other, I thought about the true elements of the book, and wished America's history could have been different. Overall, Mudbound was an eye-opening book that I would personally recommend. Anyone looking for a quick, yet substantially moving story, should definitely read this. The essence of this wonderful book can be captured in my favorite quote eloquently said by Ronsel. \"Should my story end there, in the back of that mule-drawn wagon? Silenced, delirious with pain and laudanum, defeated? Nobody would like that ending, least of all me. But to make the story come out differently I'd have to overcome so much: birth and education and opression, fear and deformity and shame, any one of which which is enough to defeat a man.\" ...more This is a very powerful, well-written novel, the story of life on a Mississippi delta hardscrabble farm just after World War II. It is presented in the format of alternating narrators who carry the tale from their individual viewpoint--farm owner, city bred woman-now farm wife, black farm worker's wife and also herbalist and midwife. Then there are the returning men of war--the airman hero brother of the farmer and the black tank squadron hero who served under Patton, who is the son of the midwi This is a very powerful, well-written novel, the story of life on a Mississippi delta hardscrabble farm just after World War II. It is presented in the format of alternating narrators who carry the tale from their individual viewpoint--farm owner, city bred woman-now farm wife, black farm worker's wife and also herbalist and midwife. Then there are the returning men of war--the airman hero brother of the farmer and the black tank squadron hero who served under Patton, who is the son of the midwife. This stew of humans, each with different thoughts on life and love and work, is joined by a non-narrator, Pappy, the white men's father, a vile character who is at the center of much that happens in the novel. So much has been written about Mudbound and I find myself agreeing with all the kudos I've heard and read in the past. I really don't think there is much more to say except that this is a book that should be widely read. It is not easy but it has a feeling of reality about it, a reality of the Jim Crow South of the 1940s and a time when this country was still recovering from the depression slowly. Highly recommended. ...more Mudbound is one of those books that in my opinion sheds a spot light on a dark time in America. Following WWII, African American soldiers returned home after defending our nation to undeserving prejudice and hypocrisy of the Jim Crow era. This historical fiction tale takes place on a farm called Mudbound, owned by the McAllan family, and worked by the Jacksons, an African American family of sharecroppers. The chapters are narrated by the major characters in the book: Henry (husband-land owner), Mudbound is one of those books that in my opinion sheds a spot light on a dark time in America. Following WWII, African American soldiers returned home after defending our nation to undeserving prejudice and hypocrisy of the Jim Crow era. This historical fiction tale takes place on a farm called Mudbound, owned by the McAllan family, and worked by the Jacksons, an African American family of sharecroppers. The chapters are narrated by the major characters in the book: Henry (husband-land owner), Laura (wife), Jamie (Henry's brother), Hap (negro share cropper), Florence (Hap's wife and midwife), and Ronsel (oldest son of Hap and Florence). What makes this book so impactful is not necessarily the dialogue or the character development but the reflection of our sins as a nation in regard to racial and gender privilege and prejudice. I typically do not give away spoilers and keep my reviews short, but my stomach is still queasy after reading the ending. I want to scream, \"No, no, no, don't let that happen? How could someone do that?\" But, we know. We know that not only did this horrible history take place in many forms, but we are still living in the aftermath to this day. I applaud Hillary Jordan for illustrating our past through this story and wish that Mudbound was required reading in our schools. ...more Mudbound, a debut novel by Hillary Jordan, is set on a Mississippi farm in the aftermath of World War II. It tells the story of the McAllan and Jackson families. The story is told from the viewpoints of the six main characters, Laura McAllan, her husband Henry, her brother-in-law Jamie, Florence Jackson, her husband Hap and her son Ronsel. Although Henry and Jamie's father plays a key role in this story, it is interesting and significant that Jordan chooses not to give him a voice. He is the onl Mudbound, a debut novel by Hillary Jordan, is set on a Mississippi farm in the aftermath of World War II. It tells the story of the McAllan and Jackson families. The story is told from the viewpoints of the six main characters, Laura McAllan, her husband Henry, her brother-in-law Jamie, Florence Jackson, her husband Hap and her son Ronsel. Although Henry and Jamie's father plays a key role in this story, it is interesting and significant that Jordan chooses not to give him a voice. He is the only character who does not narrate in the book. Upon reflection, it is highly appropriate and symbolic that he is silenced. Both women, Laura McAllan and Florence Jackson are two very strong central female characters in this novel, however, it is the friendship between Jamie McAllan and Ronsel Jackson which brings this story to its most tragic climax and one which affects both families. Mudbound is a very well written novel with a gripping story which grabs the readers attention right from page one. Jordan entices the reader through the excellent and most well timed use of foreshadowing throughout. The novel addresses such themes as racism, forbidden friendships, forbidden love and the effects of war both on the individual and the family unit. Whilst Mudbound is a really sad and heartbreaking story, it is a riveting read and an excellent debut novel. Highly recommended if you enjoy Southern fiction. ...more Like millions of other NPR Morning Edition listeners, I learned that Hillary Jordan's first book, Mudbound, is the 2008 recipient of the Bellweather Prize, founded by Barbara Kingsolver, author of The Poisonwood Bible (which I haven't read, but am familiar with). After hearing the description and listening to excerpts, I was reminded of Faulkner's As I Lay Dying, one of my favorite works of American literature--the voices are unforgettable, the story line disturbing and real. I'm looking forward Like millions of other NPR Morning Edition listeners, I learned that Hillary Jordan's first book, Mudbound, is the 2008 recipient of the Bellweather Prize, founded by Barbara Kingsolver, author of The Poisonwood Bible (which I haven't read, but am familiar with). After hearing the description and listening to excerpts, I was reminded of Faulkner's As I Lay Dying, one of my favorite works of American literature--the voices are unforgettable, the story line disturbing and real. I'm looking forward to reading Mudbound. A quote from Barabara Kingsolver about the Bellweather: \"Fiction has a unique capacity to bring difficult issues to a broad readership on a personal level, creating empathy in a reader\u2019s heart for the theoretical stranger. Its capacity for invoking moral and social responsibility is enormous. Throughout history, every movement toward a more peaceful and humane world has begun with those who imagined the possibilities. The Bellwether Prize seeks to support the imagination of humane possibilities.\" ...more A fast paced read set in post WW2 1946 on a Mississippi farm depicting the on-going struggles of a black American family and the horrid prejudices and brutality they had to endure despite the friendship that grows between Jamie of the McAllan family and Ronsel, son of their black sharecroppers. Great debut novel for Hillary Jordan! A real page-turner that was over too soon. (view spoiler) [Glad Pappy got his just reward, but wish the rest of the KKK would have been punished too. (hide spoiler) ] 4.5 enthusiastic stars! What a great read. When you have read for as long as I have, certain subject matter becomes wearisome. So I was really surprised how much I loved this book. And because she sums it up perfectly, I share Eleanor's wonderful review. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... 5***** and a \u2764 This is a work of literary fiction that deals with what it means to live in the Jim Crow south just after World War II, when being a war hero isn\u2019t enough to get respect if your skin is black. The story is told in alternate voices \u2013 one character per chapter. We have Laura, a woman from an educated household, a college graduate and \u201cspinster\u201d when she marries Henry McAllan at age 31 in Memphis. Henry is the oldest son of \u201cPappy\u201d McAllan, a mean, prejudiced cur of a man who sold his 5***** and a \u2764 This is a work of literary fiction that deals with what it means to live in the Jim Crow south just after World War II, when being a war hero isn\u2019t enough to get respect if your skin is black. The story is told in alternate voices \u2013 one character per chapter. We have Laura, a woman from an educated household, a college graduate and \u201cspinster\u201d when she marries Henry McAllan at age 31 in Memphis. Henry is the oldest son of \u201cPappy\u201d McAllan, a mean, prejudiced cur of a man who sold his wife\u2019s family land at the earliest opportunity and moved in with his married daughter and her banker husband after his wife died. Henry has always longed to be back on the land, farming. And when his brother-in-law dies, and he\u2019s left trying to fix his sister\u2019s life and take on the care of his father, he makes a sudden decision (without consulting Laura) to buy a piece of land near Marietta GA. He plans to rent a house in town for Laura and their girls, but he is taken advantage of and without a lease he has no choice but to move the family onto the farm \u2026 a ramshackle building with a leaky roof, no electricity, no phone and no plumbing. Laura accepts her lot as Henry\u2019s wife, but puts her foot down when it comes to having Pappy in the same 2-bedroom house \u2013 No. So Pappy is moved to the lean-to (after Henry puts in a floor). As is typical of the South in 1947, they have sharecroppers on the land. Six families live there when Henry buys the place, but he lets three of them go, keeping the three he feels work the hardest. One of these families is the Jacksons \u2013 Hap, Florence and their children: Lilly May (who has a club foot), twins Ruel and Marlon (about age 10), and their oldest Ronsel who is away at war when the novel opens. Ronsel is a shining star in the black community \u2013 a handsome, strong, intelligent man who has more schooling than most of his contemporaries. He\u2019s a decorated soldier of the 761st Black Panther Tank Battalion and has seen a different world in Europe, where a black man is accepted based on who he is, not shunned based on his skin. Florence is a strong woman \u2013 physically, mentally and emotionally. She\u2019s a midwife and tends her family and her \u201cladies\u201d with a no-nonsense competence. She also begins to work for the McAllen\u2019s as a cook and housekeeper, helping Laura partly out of pity but mostly because her family can use the extra money. Hap is a man of his race and generation. He\u2019s strong, works hard and smart, is a preacher, and counsels his children to \u201cknow their place\u201d in the white man\u2019s world. And finally we have Jamie, the youngest McAllen son, who has been a bomber pilot in Europe and returns a changed man \u2026 charming as ever most of the time, but drinking to excess to quell his demons. His inability to stand up to his father, and his shame over this is a central force in the book. When Ronsel returns and begins a vague \u201cfriendship\u201d with Jamie over a bottle of whiskey events are set in motion which can only lead to the inevitable tragedy. The ray of hope in the final chapter is a lifeline the author offers. I\u2019m conflicted about accepting it. ...more This is one of those times where I understand the book's high ratings; I just don't completely share the enthusiasm. In this novel Laura, an aging single woman of the 1940s, ends up marrying Henry, a decent older man whom she likes but doesn't feel particularly passionate about. When a surprising turn of events leads Henry to buy a Mississippi farm, Laura is forced to move out there with her two small children. Adding insult to injury, she then must take in her racist, unpleasant father-in-law. This is one of those times where I understand the book's high ratings; I just don't completely share the enthusiasm. In this novel Laura, an aging single woman of the 1940s, ends up marrying Henry, a decent older man whom she likes but doesn't feel particularly passionate about. When a surprising turn of events leads Henry to buy a Mississippi farm, Laura is forced to move out there with her two small children. Adding insult to injury, she then must take in her racist, unpleasant father-in-law. She meets the Jacksons, an African-American family working and living on the farm, whose son Ronsell is returning from his army service in WWII. Also returning from the war is Jamie, Henry's far more charismatic younger brother who joins them on the farm. Jamie's unlikely friendship with Ronsell leads to a cruel chain of events. So. Before I complain about the book, I will share some things I liked. I thought the writing was good, and I especially liked the subtle, nuanced racism displayed by the \"good\" characters. In a weaker novel I suspect these characters would have been anachronistically enlightened; here they came across as far more authentic and true to their time period. The pacing was pretty good, and though I'm not usually a fan of multiple narrators, here they didn't bother me as much as usual. The character of Laura rang true, and her voice sounded genuine to me. I actually cared enough to be curious about how things would play out for her. Sadly, Laura's voice was the only one that really grabbed me. The other characters were more one-dimensional, particularly the evil racist father-in-law and the strong, earnest African Americans. I couldn't help wondering how authentically a 2011 woman could truly write in the voice of 1940s African Americans, especially the men. This may have been my natural preconceived skepticism, or it may have been a response to actual limitations in the book. I also felt like the book fell into predictably politically correct lines and almost seemed clicheed on that level. I may get raked over the coals for saying this, but I'm starting to feel like writing about racism is like writing about the holocaust. Enough already. Not that these aren't important topics -- of course they are -- but they are so overdone in fiction and at this point, I think the only way to do them justice is to write well-researched non-fiction, not another manipulative novel preaching to the choir. But I did give this three stars, because it definitely had its strengths and was a good story. I just didn't love it quite as much as everyone else seemed to. ...more This award-winning 2008 debut reminiscent of Pat Conroy (the story itself more than the writing style), begins with a city girl trying to adjust to a spartan life of backbreaking farm work and becomes unputdownable by the end. A sense of foreboding hangs over everything and I could feel the tension\u2026in Laura and Henry\u2019s marriage, between the McAllens and the Jacksons, between Laura and her hateful father-in-law (Pappy), and within Jamie and Ronsel upon their returns from World War II. Something w This award-winning 2008 debut reminiscent of Pat Conroy (the story itself more than the writing style), begins with a city girl trying to adjust to a spartan life of backbreaking farm work and becomes unputdownable by the end. A sense of foreboding hangs over everything and I could feel the tension\u2026in Laura and Henry\u2019s marriage, between the McAllens and the Jacksons, between Laura and her hateful father-in-law (Pappy), and within Jamie and Ronsel upon their returns from World War II. Something was definitely going to blow. The writing is simple and down-to-earth\u2026with a cadence that takes you right to the Deep South. \"When I think of the farm, I think of mud. Lining my husband\u2019s fingernails and encrusting the children\u2019s knees and hair. Sucking at my feet like a greedy newborn on the breast. Marching in boot-shaped patches across the plank floors of the house. There was no defeating it. The mud coated everything. I dreamed in brown.\" Mudbound is centered around the themes of racism and women\u2019s role in a marriage. There is a keen perspective of what it was like for a black war hero, having been celebrated abroad, to return home to be treated like a lessor class of human: Ronsel: \"I never thought I\u2019d miss it so much. I don\u2019t mean Nazi Germany, you\u2019d have to be crazy to miss a place like that. I mean who I was when I was over there. There I was a liberator, a hero. In Mississippi I was just another nigger pushing a plow. And the longer I stayed, the more that\u2019s all I was.\" And what it was like for a wife to have little say in the direction of her life, to be expected to defer to her husband always, and to serve her father-in-law as if she were his employee. These themes lead to some barbaric events that are not for the faint of heart. Mudbound is the best piece of Southern fiction I\u2019ve read all year, one of the best I\u2019ve ever read and would be a great choice for fans of Pat Conroy. Visit my blog, www.sarahsbookshelves.com , for more reviews. ...more I first read this author's second novel, \"When she woke\" and being a Scarlet Letter fan I really enjoyed this modern day take on that novel. When I saw she had a first novel, I put it on my TBR and there it remained until as a New Year's resolution I decided to read at least two book from my TBR each month. This novel blew me away, I became emotionally involved in these characters and their lives. Two strong women, one white, one black, different circumstances but both with a strong love for the I first read this author's second novel, \"When she woke\" and being a Scarlet Letter fan I really enjoyed this modern day take on that novel. When I saw she had a first novel, I put it on my TBR and there it remained until as a New Year's resolution I decided to read at least two book from my TBR each month. This novel blew me away, I became emotionally involved in these characters and their lives. Two strong women, one white, one black, different circumstances but both with a strong love for their families. The Mississippi Delta area, in the Jim Crow south, where fairness for backs just very seldom happened. I never really thought about the blacks that had fought in World War II, the Tuskegee Airmen, tank divisions and after discharge had to return to the south where their families were, and still told to use the back door of a business. I think that is what I loved about this book, it made me think about unfairness, injustice but about real strength as well. Appreciating what you have now yet doing what you can to make a small difference. This was her first novel and it was fantastic, her second was very good albeit very different, but still addressed the many ills and unfairness in society whether in the past or the future. I wonder what her third will be? ...more As I started this book, I had a feeling in my gut that said...\"this is not going to end well\". This is a hard story, and probably so true for many who returned from World War II, and for black families in the \"Jim Crow South\" (and the white families as well) Each chapter is told by a different character and Jordan captures their separate voices perfectly. You could \"hear\" their background, the cadence of their language, their acceptance of what life had dealt them...what they could and could no As I started this book, I had a feeling in my gut that said...\"this is not going to end well\". This is a hard story, and probably so true for many who returned from World War II, and for black families in the \"Jim Crow South\" (and the white families as well) Each chapter is told by a different character and Jordan captures their separate voices perfectly. You could \"hear\" their background, the cadence of their language, their acceptance of what life had dealt them...what they could and could not expect or hope for. From the atrocities of War to the atrocities at home. There are strong characters in this story and they are all bound up together. They have hopes and dreams, and are disappointed often. There is little joy in the Mississippi Delta. This is beautifully written and carries the reader to a time not so long ago. It is in no way feel good, but it is honest...and no, it does not end well. 4.5 stars ...more I can't begin to say how much I loved this book. It's well written and fast paced, with wonderful characters that I loved, even if I didn't like them. \"When She Woke\" is my next read, and I hope it's as amazing as \"Mudbound\". I joined the whole slew of people who are reading Mudbound this month and, like them, I was impressed. Quick recap (because you are probably recapped out by this point): 1930's in the Mississippi Delta. White family Henry and Laura McAllan leave the comforts of Memphis with their two young daughters and Ole Man McAllan to grow cotton on their own land. Black family Hap and Florence Jackson are their tenants with their twin tween boys and young daughter. Jamie McAllan and Ronsel Jackson both retur I joined the whole slew of people who are reading Mudbound this month and, like them, I was impressed. Quick recap (because you are probably recapped out by this point): 1930's in the Mississippi Delta. White family Henry and Laura McAllan leave the comforts of Memphis with their two young daughters and Ole Man McAllan to grow cotton on their own land. Black family Hap and Florence Jackson are their tenants with their twin tween boys and young daughter. Jamie McAllan and Ronsel Jackson both return from the war to their families. Both scarred and trying to heal but soon realize that their budding friendship ignites racial hatred. Told from six alternating points of view, this book was wonderfully written. The story pulled me in and the writing kept me reading for hours on end that felt like mere minutes. The characters had voices that rang true for their time, location, and station in life which made the story flow so smoothly. I am not saying I agreed with everything they did or said, but I could see where that would have been an authentic reaction. I was warned by Anita that this book was graphic. However, I didn't find it violently graphic. Most of the violence was off-scene but what was graphic was the sheer hatred that some of the characters had for others. It is a book about racism set in a highly segregated part of the county at a time when the Klan was still around. The N word was thrown around freely. I can be a pretty squeemish person depending on what the violence depicts and while it made me sick that people have actually treated others that way - and much worse - the descriptions themselves weren't bad. Without giving anything away, I agree with Nicole D about the ending. I thought it was the one part of the book that didn't ring as true and I felt like the actions didn't not go nearly as far as a similar situation in reality. I did like the little foreshadowing at the end about how Ronsel and Jamie's lives progressed but felt Laura's wrap up was a bit cliche. Overall, a great book that touches on one of the uglier aspects of American history but reminds us how far we have come as a society and the great cost it has taken to get here. ...more The starting pace of Mudbound\u2019s smoldering southern class drama allowed the reader to enjoy Jordon\u2019s descriptive writing and southern dialog. And at first blush, Jordon\u2019s use of rotating the first first person account of an overlapping story was a refreshing literary device. But somewhere half way through the book the wheels fell off. Jordon\u2019s sub plots started over-reaching to the point of wild sensationalism. There is a sidecar story of incest and a resulting mother\u2019s demented double murder of The starting pace of Mudbound\u2019s smoldering southern class drama allowed the reader to enjoy Jordon\u2019s descriptive writing and southern dialog. And at first blush, Jordon\u2019s use of rotating the first first person account of an overlapping story was a refreshing literary device. But somewhere half way through the book the wheels fell off. Jordon\u2019s sub plots started over-reaching to the point of wild sensationalism. There is a sidecar story of incest and a resulting mother\u2019s demented double murder of her new born child and her husband. Another brief sojourn involves the liberation of Dockow's WW2 POWs. These are huge topics and their brief infusion into the story is distracting. Basically, Jordon\u2019s mudbound farm drama took off on a far flung road show. I watched, drop-jaw, as a perfectly good simple story unraveled at my feet. I suspect her publisher might have pushed her, \"Hillery this is fine story, but you need more action, more range!\" Sadly, Mudbound is yet another ironic twist of a title. I'd pass on Mudbound in favor of a several other authentic Southern fictional stories including; The Help, Plainsong, Heart is a Lonely Hunter and Peace Like a River. I've also found wonderful southern voices woven into a few great memoirs, i.e. A Girl Named Zippy, Glass Castle or Ava's Man. ...more I had not read any reviews of this book before I bought it for my Kindle and was surprised to find it was such a good book. It covered a lot of ground since it was set in the mid 1940's (just after WWII) in a small rural community in the Jim Crow South. I loved how the book unfolded with the author alternating chapters among the six main characters letting each of them tell their side of the story. I think this would be a really good read for a book club. There's lots to discuss.", "Title": "Mudbound"},
