{"Comments": "Folks have been recommending I read Richard Morgan for years. But I've got a to-read stack longer than my arm, and my reading time is rather precious. It's a big risk to try a longish book by an author I've never read before.<---F> In a nutshell</---F>. I loved it. About halfway through the book I looked it up online and saw that it won a bunch of awards. It deserves them. I don't read as much Sci-fi as I used to, but I'm no newbie. The world is unique and fresh. Good characters. Interesting mystery. Yeah. G Folks have been recommending I read Richard Morgan for years. But I've got a to-read stack longer than my arm, and my reading time is rather precious. It's a big risk to try a longish book by an author I've never read before. In a nutshell. I loved it. About halfway through the book I looked it up online and saw that it won a bunch of awards. It deserves them. I don't read as much Sci-fi as I used to, but I'm no newbie. The world is unique and fresh. Good characters. Interesting mystery. Yeah. Good stuff. I'll be reading his other books shortly. ...more A fun and fast-paced thrill ride, almost impossible for me to put down. Picture a hard-boiled noir,<---M> the solitary</---M>, weary worldly detective, blunted emotional skills, stepping on toes as he investigates. Merge that plot and character with innovative science fiction\u2013digitized personalities that can be downloaded into new bodies with the right reasons or enough cash, and the result is eminently readable. *********************** Full review posted at: http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0... AND http://ca A fun and fast-paced thrill ride, almost impossible for me to put down. Picture a hard-boiled noir, the solitary, weary worldly detective, blunted emotional skills, stepping on toes as he investigates. Merge that plot and character with innovative science fiction\u2013digitized personalities that can be downloaded into new bodies with the right reasons or enough cash, and the result is eminently readable. *********************** Full review posted at: http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0... AND http://carols.booklikes.com/post/7738... - ...more <---C>Takeshi Kovacs</---C> is killed on an another world and re-sleeved in Bay City in the body of a disgraced cop. His mission: find out who killed Laurens Bancroft, a Meth (<---B>short for Methusaleh</---B>) billionaire. Bancroft and is offering Kovacs his freedom as a reward. Only a lot of people don't want anyone to know why Bancroft killed himself. Can Kovacs get to the bottom of things before the demons in Bancroft's private life get him? I bought this for a buck and it languished on my shelf for a couple years. Wa Takeshi Kovacs is killed on an another world and re-sleeved in Bay City in the body of a disgraced cop. His mission: find out who killed Laurens Bancroft, a Meth (short for Methusaleh) billionaire. Bancroft and is offering Kovacs his freedom as a reward. Only a lot of people don't want anyone to know why Bancroft killed himself. Can Kovacs get to the bottom of things before the demons in Bancroft's private life get him? I bought this for a buck and it languished on my shelf for a couple years. Was it worth a buck? Damn right it was! Kovacs' quest takes him through the seedy underworld of the Bay City sex trade, among other places. The supporting cast, namely Ortega, Miriam Bancroft, Kadmin, and Trepp, keep the plot going fairly smoothly. The action is fast and furious and the sci-fi elements enhance the mystery rather than being set pieces. The mystery itself has so many twists and turns that it was hard to keep track. I like when a mystery surprises me this much. Kovacs wouldn't be out of place in any number of crime novels. Bay City is a like a futuristic, and dirtier, San Francisco and is fairly well realized as a setting. It's hard to believe this was Morgan's first novel. \"But, Dan?\" you ask. \"Why only a three? Why not a four or even a five?\" Well, I liked this book but I sure wasn't in love with it. First, the sex scenes were unnecessary and, frankly, kind of repetitive. Let's just say 69 is a popular number in the future. Also, for what the book was, it seemed slow in the middle, like fifty to seventy pages could've have been lost without missing much. The plot zigged and zagged so much I'd nearly forgotten about the Bancrofts by the end. Other than that, I've got no complaints. If you like your sci-fi with an action bend and/or are a fan of crime novels, this should keep you occupied for a few hours. ...more Wow. It\u2019s no wonder <---A>Richard K. Morgan</---A> became such a phenomenon in the science fiction world so quickly. His first novel, \u201c<+++>Altered Carbon</+++>\u201d is so well crafted that it bears no hints of being a first novel. His imagination and story telling is absolutely amazing. Although it is absolutely full of graphic violence and has a few X-rated sex scenes, every part is so well written, it all fits. This book should have completely offended me. I can\u2019t stand gratuitous sex and violence. But, the way Morgan w Wow. It\u2019s no wonder Richard K. Morgan became such a phenomenon in the science fiction world so quickly. His first novel, \u201c<+++>Altered Carbon</+++>\u201d is so well crafted that it bears no hints of being a first novel. His imagination and story telling is absolutely amazing. Although it is absolutely full of graphic violence and has a few X-rated sex scenes, every part is so well written, it all fits. This book should have completely offended me. I can\u2019t stand gratuitous sex and violence. But, the way Morgan writes it, the sex and violence come off as being necessary to the story and the characters. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever run across such plausible characters and actions. The plot is a standard noir detective thriller, but it\u2019s so well done that the mystery remains a mystery until the very end. One thing Morgan handles very well is his technology. He really goes into the various implications of a transhuman world where people can upload their thoughts, memories and personalities to different bodies (sleeves), depending on their ability to afford the costs. The truly rich can afford to live for hundreds of years, switching to young versions of themselves when their bodies get too old for their tastes. Poor people just get the consciousnesses (known as stacks) stored until someone is will to pay the price to get them reactivated in a new sleeve. The quality of one\u2019s sleeve is an indication of their wealth. Without ever going into lecture mode, Morgan shows us how nearly every aspect of this transhuman society works. To keep my conscience clear, I will state very strongly that this is at least R-rated material. A few scenes are X-rated. Some readers may be very turn-off by the brutality of \u201cAltered Carbon.\u201d It's also quite difficult to follow, with a lot of twists and turns in the plot. More than a few times, I found myself wondering where a certain character came from or how we found ourselves in a certain scene. If you can handle the violence, sex and complicated plot, it is an excellent read and well worth the time and effort. ...more It's science fiction noir, and Morgan has a nice touch of both noir phrasing and overly-complicated noir plotting. I really didn't see the intricacies of the story until they were laid out, but it never worried me. I enjoyed being plunged into the confusing world that Takeshi Kovacs wakes up in, with little more information than he had. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In It's science fiction noir, and Morgan has a nice touch of both noir phrasing and overly-complicated noir plotting. I really didn't see the intricacies of the story until they were laid out, but it never worried me. I enjoyed being plunged into the confusing world that Takeshi Kovacs wakes up in, with little more information than he had. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Altered Carbon: Richard Morgan's Cyber-Punk Future \u201cThe human eye is a wonderful device. With a little effort, it can fail to see even the most glaring injustice.\u201d \u2015 Richard K. Morgan, Altered Carbon It takes something special for a book to keep me burning through the pages until 3 a.m. Altered Carbon by Richard K. Morgan is a helluva read. Winner of the Philip K. Dick Award for Best Novel, 2003 Morgan is a wicked blend of Philip K. Dick and William Gibson . There is even a touch of Gene Roddenber Altered Carbon: Richard Morgan's Cyber-Punk Future \u201cThe human eye is a wonderful device. With a little effort, it can fail to see even the most glaring injustice.\u201d \u2015 Richard K. Morgan, Altered Carbon It takes something special for a book to keep me burning through the pages until 3 a.m. Altered Carbon by Richard K. Morgan is a helluva read. Winner of the Philip K. Dick Award for Best Novel, 2003 Morgan is a wicked blend of Philip K. Dick and William Gibson . There is even a touch of Gene Roddenberry's various Star Trek series. But the beneficent Federation is replaced by a universe governed by the United Nations, a tough bunch, whose prime directive is to do what it takes to get what you want or think you need. Our protagonist/anti-hero--your choice, pushed to the forefront of the story is Takeshi Kovacs, raised off-world on Harlan's World, a colonized by the Japanese and East Europeans. Introduced to violence at a young age through gang participation, Kovacs is a natural for military service. And he is natural to become a U.N. Envoy, the best, and the most brutal in carrying out the U.N. \"Protectorate's\" directives. Set five hundred ,and counting, years in the future, science has mastered the art of defying the principle of you only go around this life once. No. You can grab all the gusto you'd like, time after time, through the development of Digital Human Forms called sleeves. Even the mind can be digitized and backed up in case something untoward occurs to your current self. The wealthier you are, the more of your selves you can keep in storage. Theoretically if you've got the money and the power, you could live forever. Those that choose to do so are called \"Meths\" by the younger and poorer citizens of Earth and the other off-world colonies. Now your first thought might be, why this is no dystopia. This is utopia! But there are a few problems with that. Imagine being married to the same person for three hundred years, and having all the money it takes to support the theory that variety is the spice of life. The preceding statement does not reflect the views or opinions of the reviewer. My wife reads these things. Got it? Enter Laurens Bancroft and his lovely wife Miriam. To say that they have become a bit jaded is more than a bit of understatement. Bancroft enjoys slumming in the myriad sex clubs available, from the lowest to the most exclusive. Miriam enjoys her own t\u00eate-\u00e0-t\u00eates, but prefers much more tasteful surroundings. Bancroft is murdered, so he says, upon being re-sleeved in one of his copies. The Bay City Police Department rules it a suicide. Members of the department have little or no sympathy for Meths. They have better things to worry about. Consider this. Morgan writes: \u201cYou live that long, things start happening to you. You get too impressed with yourself. Ends up, you think you\u2019re God. Suddenly the little people, thirty, maybe forty years old, well, they don\u2019t really matter anymore. You\u2019ve seen whole societies rise and fall, and you start to feel you\u2019re standing outside it all, and none of it really matters to you. And maybe you\u2019ll start snuffing those little people, just like picking daisies, if they get under your feet.\u201d So it is that Bancroft hires Kovacs to investigate his murder. As he tells Kovacs, \"If I had wanted to commit suicide I wouldn't be standing here talking to you.\" Maybe so. Maybe no. Not only do denizens of Morgan's world routinely resort to the F-Bomb in conversation, they enjoy engaging in the actual activity. Morgan includes enough gratuitous sex scenes to appeal to most prurient interests. Of course Miriam Bancroft seduces Kovacs not only through her perfect body but by the secretion of a sexually enhancing chemical from every pore of her body. Erectile dysfunction is NOT a problem in Morgan's world. Nor do Miriam and Kovacs end up in separate bath tubs. I've never understood that Cialis commercial anyway. Have you? Of course, Miriam would like to see Kovacs close the case, making her a prime suspect. But Morgan supplies us with a host of other likely suspects, whom I will not reveal for fear of disclosing too much of the plot. Let's just say this re-sleeving business is a huge money maker, along with virtual and actual prostitution a lucrative concern as well. There is little justice for those without money or power. Morgan intriguingly plots his novel around the question of when does science cross the line of morality and religion. Not every citizen wants to be re-sleeved, particularly those of the Catholic faith who see multiple lives as keeping them from the opportunity of ever getting to Heaven. At the heart of this twining and twisting plot is the question of Resolution No. 653, to be decided by the U.N. Protectorate. Can one opt out of being kept digitally stored and re-sleeved? Catholics have taken to having themselves tattooed with the equivalent of a do not resuscitate code. That proposition makes them likely targets for murder, especially when it comes to snuffing an unwilling prostitute. Winner of the 2003 Philip K. Dick Award for Best Novel, Altered Carbon is an addictive page turner which should engage the lover of not only hard-boiled detective novels, but cyberpunk as well. If it's not on your to read shelf, add it. Now, just one thing about this Methuselah business...it would be nice to read forever. ...more Hmmm...I can't remember why I picked up this book. I think I read about it on a friend's blog. I read most of it today and finished it off. But it was sort of painful at times -- the last 50 pages were sort of agony to read, but by that point, you just have to finish the damn thing. Not spectacularly written, but hardly unusual for a book in this genre. It was interesting enough for me to plod through it, and at one point I enjoyed it briefly, but I thought it was full of logical flaws and jumps Hmmm...I can't remember why I picked up this book. I think I read about it on a friend's blog. I read most of it today and finished it off. But it was sort of painful at times -- the last 50 pages were sort of agony to read, but by that point, you just have to finish the damn thing. Not spectacularly written, but hardly unusual for a book in this genre. It was interesting enough for me to plod through it, and at one point I enjoyed it briefly, but I thought it was full of logical flaws and jumps and not very original. The idea of \"sleeving\" into new bodies is interesting. The idea of \"consciousness\" or whatever you want to call it being nothing more than data you can download is interesting, but neither is an original idea. I particularly disliked that discussion he has with himself about his father -- completely out of context and forced into the narrative. The discovery of Sheryl Bostock felt forced and came out of the blue, too. I finished the book with a sort of relieved sense that it was over and don't have much good to say about it. There was nothing unique about it. And you could've ignored its inelegance if there'd been a sense of joy and wonder in reading the book, but I didn't feel that. I don't think the narrative was cohesive and the only thing that keeps you going is that you want to know how all the details of the plot -- even if it's a poorly rigged one. However, it did get me thinking about interesting things -- about how much of who we are is the biochemical and neurological wiring of our physical selves and what it'd be like to separate that body from our stored memories. What happens to a person when their stored memories are downloaded into a different physical body? How does the new \"self\" react to someone else's neurological mappings? I think I'll probably be mulling over ideas out of that book for a while. So I'm glad I read the it, but I couldn't recommend it with good conscience. ...more One of the best action sequences in modern scifi: Sarah was turning her aim on the figures beyond the wall when the second commando of the night appeared braced in the kitchen doorway and hosed her away with his assault rifle. Still on my knees, I watched her die with chemical clarity. It all went so slowly it was like a video playback on frame advance. The commando kept his aim low, holding the Kalashnikov down against the hyper-rapid-fire recoil it was famous for. The bed went first, erupting in One of the best action sequences in modern scifi: Sarah was turning her aim on the figures beyond the wall when the second commando of the night appeared braced in the kitchen doorway and hosed her away with his assault rifle. Still on my knees, I watched her die with chemical clarity. It all went so slowly it was like a video playback on frame advance. The commando kept his aim low, holding the Kalashnikov down against the hyper-rapid-fire recoil it was famous for. The bed went first, erupting into gouts of white goose down and ripped cloth, then Sarah, caught in the storm as she turned. I saw one leg turned to pulp below the knee, and then the body hits, bloody fistfuls of tissue torn out of her pale flanks as she fell through the curtain of fire. I reeled to my feet as the assault rifle stammered to a halt. Sarah had rolled over on her face, as if to hide the damage the shells had done to her, but I saw it all through veils of red anyway. I came out of the corner without conscious thought and the commando was too late to bring the Kalashnikov around. I slammed into him at waist height, blocked the gun, and knocked him back into the kitchen. The barrel of the rifle caught on the doorjamb, and he lost his grip. I heard the weapon clatter to the ground behind me as we hit the kitchen floor. With the speed and strength of the tetrameth, I scrambled astride him, batted aside one flailing arm, and seized his head in both hands. Then I smashed it against the tiles like a coconut. Under the mask, his eyes went suddenly unfocused. I lifted the head again and smashed it down again, feeling the skull give soggily with the impact. I ground down against the crunch, lifted and smashed again. There was a roaring in my ears like the maelstrom, and somewhere I could hear my own voice screaming obscenities. I was going for a fourth or fifth blow when something kicked me between the shoulder blades and splinters jumped magically out of the table leg in front of me. I felt the sting as two of them found homes in my face. For some reason the rage puddled abruptly out of me. I let go of the commando\u2019s head and almost gently and was lifting one puzzled hand to the pain of the splinters in my cheek when I realized I had been shot, and that the bullet must have torn all the way through my chest and into the table leg. I looked down, dumbfounded, and saw the dark red stain inking its way out over my shirt. No doubt about it. An exit hole big enough to take a golf ball. With the realization came the pain. It felt as if someone had run a steel wool pipe cleaner briskly through my chest cavity. Almost thoughtfully, I reached up, found the hole, and plugged it with my two middle fingers. The fingertips scraped over the roughness of torn bone in the wound, and I felt something membranous throb against one of them. The bullet had missed my heart. I grunted and attempted to rise, but the grunt turned into a cough and I tasted blood on my tongue. \u201cDon\u2019t you move, motherfucker.\u201d The yell came out of a young throat, badly distorted with shock. I hunched forward over my wound and looked back over my shoulder. Behind me in the doorway, a young man in a police uniform had both hands clasped around the pistol he had just shot me with. He was trembling visibly. I coughed again and turned back to the table. The Smith & Wesson was on eye level, gleaming silver, still where I had left it less than two minutes ago. Perhaps it was that, the scant shavings of time had been planed off since Sarah was alive and all was well, that drove me. Less than two minutes ago I could have picked up the gun; I\u2019d even thought about it, so why not now? I gritted my teeth, pressed my fingers harder into the hole in my chest, and staggered upright. Blood spattered warmly against the back of my throat. I braced myself on the edge of the table with my free hand and looked back at the cop. I could feel my lips peeling back from the clenched teeth in something that was more a grin than a grimace. \u201cDon\u2019t make me do it, Kovacs.\u201d I got myself a step closer to the table and leaned against it with my thighs, breath whistling through my teeth and bubbling in my throat. The Smith & Wesson gleamed like fool\u2019s gold on the scarred wood. Out in the Reach power lashed down from an orbital and lit the kitchen in tones of blue. I could hear the maelstrom calling. \u201cI said don\u2019t--\u201d I closed my eyes and clawed the gun off the table. Yes, you read that. The author slowed down time and described bullet trajectories. Fucking awesome is right. While the relationship between movies and books has always been symbiotic, it was never balanced. Action scenes are a purely cinematic contribution, and the results here are spectacular. Paired with a protagonist like Kovacs, what can go wrong? Well, just about everything, actually. ...more Altered Carbon by Richard Morgan My rating: 4 of 5 stars Blurb: In the twenty-fifth century, humankind has spread throughout the galaxy, monitored by the watchful eye of the U.N. While divisions in race, religion, and class still exist, advances in technology have redefined life itself. Now, assuming one can afford the expensive procedure, a person\u2019s consciousness can be stored in a cortical stack at the base of the brain and easily downloaded into a new body (or \u201csleeve\u201d) making death nothing Altered Carbon by Richard Morgan My rating: 4 of 5 stars Blurb: In the twenty-fifth century, humankind has spread throughout the galaxy, monitored by the watchful eye of the U.N. While divisions in race, religion, and class still exist, advances in technology have redefined life itself. Now, assuming one can afford the expensive procedure, a person\u2019s consciousness can be stored in a cortical stack at the base of the brain and easily downloaded into a new body (or \u201csleeve\u201d) making death nothing more than a minor blip on a screen. Ex-U.N. envoy Takeshi Kovacs has been killed before, but his last death was particularly painful. Dispatched one hundred eighty light-years from home, re-sleeved into a body in Bay City (formerly San Francisco, now with a rusted, dilapidated Golden Gate Bridge), Kovacs is thrown into the dark heart of a shady, far-reaching conspiracy that is vicious even by the standards of a society that treats \u201cexistence\u201d as something that can be bought and sold. For Kovacs, the shell that blew a hole in his chest was only the beginning. . . . Thoughts: As an avid Goodreads (it's like Letterboxd but for books) user I'm always interested in the general consensus on books, sure the place is a breeding ground for people who rate every single book 5 stars whether it is actually good or not, Twi-hards, rabid old ladies who read 100 romance books a week and E.L. James but there are a fair few intelligent readers too, people who rate their enjoyment after consideration of the content and the history of the genre they prefer. When a book has an average rating of more than 4 stars from nearly 10,000 ratings you know that what you are about to read is one of two things - A) mindless nonsense that didn't reach the masses on a Twilight or Da Vinci Code scale but still encouraged fangirl obsession or B) an incredibly good book genuinely enjoyed by nearly 100% of the people who read it. In this case I am happy that it was option B, I would have been quite distraught if it had been option A. The major drawback of it being option B is that there's just no real need to review the book at this stage, it's a popular book that people have surely already heard of and will have read it, planned to read it or dismissed it already. It has been around since 2002 though so perhaps you missed it, so I will tell you this: Altered Carbon is a post-cyberpunk novel, to narrow that a little further it is a post Snow Crash novel, almost an alternate history of the genre when put alongside that other great post-cyberpunk novel The Diamond Age . Where Stephenson started to develop his baroque style, drifting away from crazed killers loaded with implants and running crazy Matrix style hacks, Morgan took the totally kickass way Hiro Protagonist saved the day in Snow Crash and pushed the action to a whole new level. It is also the winner of the Philip K. Dick Award for best original science fiction paperback in 2002. This really is brutal at times, but not overly gory, whilst not losing sight of the fact that it was a post-cyberpunk novel. The scientific speculation is there with many cool ideas thrown in to the mix, my favourite being the sentient AI hotel Hendrix whilst the major conceit of transmitting human consciousness is played so subtly that you could easily gloss over the major significance of what it might mean for human beings and humanity. The shades of grey noir hero from the classic period forms the basis for Takeshi Kovacs, which works extremely well in a plot that zigs and zags its way through 470 pages leaving you second guessing your instincts towards the character and the plot; you may think you have the mystery solved up front but Kovacs is so reckless, a man who blurs the lines of good vs evil so consistently that you're never quite sure what side he's playing, that you'll most likely find yourself wondering just what happened by the time you reach the conclusion. This worked very well, especially as there are two more Takeshi Kovacs investigations to get involved with. Don't question this, just read the book, it's a great modern noir with a sci-fi twist. Further viewing suggestions: Ghost in the Shell The Matrix Blade Runner Additional Reading: Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson The Last Policeman by Ben H. Winters Kop by Warren Hammond Originally posted at Blahblahblahgay ...more This book is legendary among cyberpunk fans, I do not really count myself among them as I have read too little from this sub-genre to qualify. However, it is very frequently recommended in the excellent PrintSF forum I frequent. A few years ago I went through a phase of reading crime fiction almost exclusively because I felt like a change from decades of reading sf/f. One of the best practitioners of crime fiction is Michael Connelly , whose most famous creation is detective Harry Bosch. If Mr. C This book is legendary among cyberpunk fans, I do not really count myself among them as I have read too little from this sub-genre to qualify. However, it is very frequently recommended in the excellent PrintSF forum I frequent. A few years ago I went through a phase of reading crime fiction almost exclusively because I felt like a change from decades of reading sf/f. One of the best practitioners of crime fiction is Michael Connelly , whose most famous creation is detective Harry Bosch. If Mr. Connelly had put Detective Bosch in space (and cyberspace) he may have ended up with something like Altered Carbon (if he is lucky). Altered Carbon takes place in a universe where human personalities can be digitized and transfer to different bodies (called sleeves), artificial or natural but unoccupied. Takeshi Kovacs' consciousness was in storage when he suddenly finds himself in a stranger's body and tasked with solving a mystery for a millionaire whose life was recently restored from backup after he has apparently committed suicide. His backed up consciousness has no memory of this alleged suicide because it occurs after the backup was made and he insists that he is not the suicidal type. The story is not difficult to get into due to its linear timeline and a single first-person narrative. It took me a while to warm up to the protagonist Kovacs because like most fictional hard-boiled detectives he is a pain in the nether regions until you get to know him. The other characters are interesting enough without leaving much of an impression, one exception being an AI character named after a legendary guitar hero. Richard K. Morgan's prose seems more American than English, which surprised me a bit given that he is British, but the style goes with the noir territory I suppose. The prose style is in the tradition of Raymond chandler / Dashiell Hammett. Visceral and lean with the occasional surprising passages of contemplative and even lyrical narration. The nature of \"the self\" and reality is thoughtfully ruminated upon. I have read several reviews that mentioned that this book would make a great action film, one review even describes it as a Schwarzenegger film. This may well be the case if they cut out all the thoughtful elements and just concentrate on blowing shit up real good. I wonder how pleased the author would feel with that? I would rate this novel at 4.6 stars, it does not quite reach the emotional core for me (though it is not far off), it falls just a little short in the poignancy department. Still, it is a fantastic sf book with plenty of food for thought and I would not hesitate to recommend it to anyone in search of an excellent sci-fi read. ______________________ Notes: This book makes me question the \"immortality by cloning\" sf trope. The idea is understandable but somehow does not jibe with me. There is an interesting discussion of the idea here . I just realized that I have not touched upon how virtual reality is cleverly used in the book as an interrogation tool, now I don't know where to discreetly fit it into the review! Update Jan 23, 2016 : Netflix has picked up a 10-episode series based on Altered Carbon . ...more It's weird for me disliking a story so full of things I enjoy. Morgan goes out of his way to tackle compelling notions about life and morality at the intersection of technology. He asks about the nature of what makes us human. He challenges the idea that memory and experience solely define us. The pages are practically bursting with genre favorites like Cyborgs, gun-play, hovering vehicles, and bionically enhanced assassins. Assassins, who by the way, can be needle-cast from colonized world to c It's weird for me disliking a story so full of things I enjoy. Morgan goes out of his way to tackle compelling notions about life and morality at the intersection of technology. He asks about the nature of what makes us human. He challenges the idea that memory and experience solely define us. The pages are practically bursting with genre favorites like Cyborgs, gun-play, hovering vehicles, and bionically enhanced assassins. Assassins, who by the way, can be needle-cast from colonized world to colonized world in an instant. An army of souls sleeved in flesh they\u2019ve never worn to keep the peace, using some sort of tactile telepathy to recognize whose side they're on. That sounds cool as hell. I want to know more about all of those grand notions, don't you? Then, why is the story itself set on earth? Earth is clearly a relic world, a shithole careening through space while humanity flourishes among the stars - I wanted to adore this book so much! But, wishing it doesn\u2019t make it so, this book still sucks! Written in the first person, which is usually a turn off for me, Morgan is quick to exhibit exactly why I'm not a fan of this narrative style. From the unlikable inner longings of the main character to the sex scenes that are more awkward and uncomfortable than lurid. Imagine having your mother overshare the details of your conception - it's like that. If this unfortunate pressing of the flesh happened only once in the story, I might have been able to overlook it\u2026 It didn\u2019t, so neither will I. Morgan jumps from profoundly cool concepts to silly tough guy posturing, but these scenes are equally poor in their execution. The main character is a stereotypical hard man, cussing and throwing his weight around, but it\u2019s mostly caricature. Takeshi Kovachs comes off like a terrified High Schooler trying to be hardcore: content to simply fake it and hope no one takes notice, bullying his way from scene to scene with little more than the inertia of intent. Passable for a private dick in our distant past, but really, really stupid, for an intergalactic god stompingly badass member of the Envoy Corps in the distant future. There is a whole lot of intrigue in this book, and I still can\u2019t put my finger on what it is all for. Everyone is reprehensibly dirty and beyond pity or affection; their sole purpose is to serve as set dressing to prop up interesting ideas that are not integral to the narrative. Characters run round and round while their supporting cast - who are way cooler and decidedly more kick-ass than Kovachs ever got the chance to be - drop like flies. And, in case I have undersold my dislike, here, let me spell it out for you: This was a book that was as hard for me to get through as it was for me to like, and it had cyborgs! ...more With my sinus allergies kicking my butt, I don't have the energy to write a really long review, so I'll keep it simple. I thought this was an excellent book, though not really a comfortable book. I don't think this book is for everyone. The language is very coarse, to be honest. Liberal use of the worst word for women in written language is employed. It starts with a 'c' and ends with a 't', and I think you can fill in the blanks. I winced just about every time. Despite this, and the fact that t With my sinus allergies kicking my butt, I don't have the energy to write a really long review, so I'll keep it simple. I thought this was an excellent book, though not really a comfortable book. I don't think this book is for everyone. The language is very coarse, to be honest. Liberal use of the worst word for women in written language is employed. It starts with a 'c' and ends with a 't', and I think you can fill in the blanks. I winced just about every time. Despite this, and the fact that this story deals with prostitution and horrible abuse of women in a disturbingly intimate manner, I don't feel that Mr. Morgan showed misogynistic tendencies in his writing. In fact, some of the most strongest, most three-dimensional characters in this story were women, and each one was different. I particularly liked Ortega, and her relationship with Kovacs. Trepp was interesting, as well. Miriam was somewhat standard noir fair. You know, the bodacious vixen who also happens to be the wife of the victim, who seduces the PI? Yeah, that's in this book. This book was fairly violent, although not quite what I'd call gratuitous. Not gratuitous in the sense that the whole book wasn't violent. But, yeah, there are some pretty in your face scenes. Let's just say I would be looking away on quite a few scenes if this was a movie. There's a fair amount of sex, too. I thought it was tasteful and well-written, despite all the nasty inferences to particularly 'icky' sexual practices. That was all off-scene, thankfully. The worldbuilding was very good. The whole concept of sleeving (changing bodies), and stacking (digital storage of consciousness) was a bit disturbing for me. They have figured out the key to immortality in the 25th century, and that immortality is not a pretty one, at least to me. Bascially, if you have enough money, you can have your consciousness continually transferred to different bodies as the old ones wear out, or your present body is prematurely damaged. Let's just hope you do have the dough to spring for a new body. If not, well, I guess you get to hang out in a digital storage bank, for eternity. Yikes. I did like the tech, some aspects that made it clear this was a future setting, but not so much that I got bored. I did have some issues getting used to the vocabulary; but I soon fell into the stream of things. This book gave me some things to think about. My feelings about what gives a person her or his identity. Is the soul what they are storing, or is it merely the consciousness? What happens to the soul? How can you be unique if you can download your consciousness into more than one body at a time? Mr. Morgan doesn't try to answer these questions, so I'm still pondering it, left to draw my own conclusions. In this future world of Earth, the Catholics definitely don't agree with digital storage of consciousness, and they fight it. Unfortunately, that makes Catholics a particular target for people who don't have respect for human life. That was another theme this book touched on. There are some people (powerful ones) who don't seem to value human life; since, well, you can just buy a new body when the old one is not working anymore. And people who are not worth anything in society, they are simply disposable. One of the major bad guys comes right out and says this. It made me think that even today, when we don't get replacement bodies, people have the same attitude. Life isn't sacred, if the person isn't worth anything in the material sense. Kind of sad to see that things haven't changed. Kovacs was a protagonist that had layers. He was a ruthless killer. But, he was also a principled man, who had limits to what he would and wouldn't do. A man who cared about people, capable of loving and being loved. But, also a man who could kill remorselessly and does. He doesn't seem to have an issue with sleeping with another man's wife, but he doesn't like prostitution. Using drugs is not something he's against, either (I hate drugs, so I didn't really care for that). He's in over his head, several times. He gets hurt, badly. So, even though he's clearly a very dangerous man, he's not invulnerable. You really don't know if he'll make it through some of the sticky situations he ends up in. You see this crazy world through his eyes, and it's not pretty. One thing that surprised me, was that the environment wasn't screwed up. I had expected that this would be an issue in the far future. But, not so much. I guess, with all the bad stuff that was going on, why throw in environmental catastrophes? To sum up things: This was a very good read. I'd like to read more stories with Takeshi Kovacs, and more of Mr. Morgan's writing. ...more 5.0 to 5.5 stars. A fantastic debut novel by a great new voice in Science Fiction. The world-building is superb and the concept of \"re-sleaving\" and the myriad ways in which society changes when death no longer is permament are exceptionally handled. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!! Winner: Philip K. Dick Award for Best Novel (2004) Nominee: Locus Award for Best First Novel (2003) Liked these books a lot. Misogynist but whatever, hardboiled sci-fi was fun :) I really love hard boiled detective stories, and cyber punk sci-fi. So, give me a book like this which is a combination of both and I can talk about it for days Remniscent of When Gravity Fails , this book had an unwilling protaganist running around trying to save his own loved ones by solving a crime. The technology has to do with 'sleeving'. The ability to download personalities into 'spare' bodies. Now of course those bodies are supplied from somewhere, and that bitter taste never really leaves I really love hard boiled detective stories, and cyber punk sci-fi. So, give me a book like this which is a combination of both and I can talk about it for days Remniscent of When Gravity Fails , this book had an unwilling protaganist running around trying to save his own loved ones by solving a crime. The technology has to do with 'sleeving'. The ability to download personalities into 'spare' bodies. Now of course those bodies are supplied from somewhere, and that bitter taste never really leaves your mouth throughout this novel. The mystery was there, but deep enough I didnt see it. The killer kind of obvious, but the motivations weren't. The slight romance was correctly complicated, and the ugly side realistic. Everything I look for, how can I not love it! ...more Executive Summary: A book that seemed to work better in concept than execution for me. It's possible I just wasn't in the right mood for this book at the time I listened to it though. Audio book: The narration was OK, but not great. Todd McLaren has a decent enough voice, but isn't very good at accents. I think I would have preferred if he just read it rather than trying to do voices. They weren't so bad as to distract me from the story though. The actual quality of the audiobook is awful. I'm not Executive Summary: A book that seemed to work better in concept than execution for me. It's possible I just wasn't in the right mood for this book at the time I listened to it though. Audio book: The narration was OK, but not great. Todd McLaren has a decent enough voice, but isn't very good at accents. I think I would have preferred if he just read it rather than trying to do voices. They weren't so bad as to distract me from the story though. The actual quality of the audiobook is awful. I'm not sure if this is because I accidentally downloaded the lower quality version or just in general. It was REALLY quiet. And when I plugged my phone into the car I'd get feedback noise if I had it plugged into the charger as well. It was OK on headphones, but overall it was frustrating trying to listen to the book. I would have switched to the ebook if I wasn't in the middle of something else. I'd personally recommend staying away from the audio for this reason alone. Full Review This one has been on my list for awhile. The blurb sounded pretty cool. I've read a lot of Urban Fantasy that uses the detective mashup, but not a cyberpunk one. I was pretty excited when it was chosen as the Sword & Laser March pick. It started off pretty cool. An elite operative being forced into an unfamiliar body on earth. Hired by someone who recently died to investigate the circumstances. But I had trouble getting into it. There seemed to just be a lot of sex and violence and very little in the way of plot. I enjoy a dumb action flick every now and again and I don't even mind popcorn fiction, but this just didn't seem to click with me. I'm still not sure if it's that I simply don't like the book that much, or if I just wasn't in the right mood for it. There are cool action sequences. I liked some of the sci-fi elements (transferred consciousness, virtual reality) and how they were incorporated into the storyline. I was interested in finding out the reason for the murder/suicide. So why didn't I just love this book? If I had to put my finger on it, I'd say it's because I never connected to any of the characters. I tend to enjoy character driven stories the most. Plus, when you have a story that is light on plot and heavy on action, you really need to have a protagonist the reader can get behind and that just didn't happen for me. I can see this being an enjoyable book to read though, and I didn't hate it, I just didn't like it as much as I was expecting to I guess. Your mileage may vary. ...more Dobra je ovo knjiga! Nije bravura od koje zastaje dah, ali je brza, hiper zabavna i vrlo jednostavno pisana. Ideja \u201edigitalnog ugljika\u201c je odli\u010dna, inovativna i u sme\u0107u kvazi inovativnosti zaista osvje\u017eavaju\u0107a. Ako shvatimo da je pisanje umjetnost preno\u0161enja emocije na papir, onda Morgan ima mali problem jer prebacio je emociju samo na jednog lika, koji je bez emocija. Takeshi Kovacs je nabrijan, lud, bezkompromisan lik; bezobrazan i nikome se ne mi\u010de s puta (malo me i podsje\u0107a na mog Callana Br Dobra je ovo knjiga! Nije bravura od koje zastaje dah, ali je brza, hiper zabavna i vrlo jednostavno pisana. Ideja \u201edigitalnog ugljika\u201c je odli\u010dna, inovativna i u sme\u0107u kvazi inovativnosti zaista osvje\u017eavaju\u0107a. Ako shvatimo da je pisanje umjetnost preno\u0161enja emocije na papir, onda Morgan ima mali problem jer prebacio je emociju samo na jednog lika, koji je bez emocija. Takeshi Kovacs je nabrijan, lud, bezkompromisan lik; bezobrazan i nikome se ne mi\u010de s puta (malo me i podsje\u0107a na mog Callana Brennu, ali je Callan ipak malo senzibilniji i nervozniji :) ). Ipak generalna zamjerka je veli\u010dina romana. Ovakvu knjigu punu tempa trebalo bi napisati sa 200+ strana ali nikako ne vi\u0161e od 300, a ovo je roman\u010dina od 500, pa se ta brzina malo izgubi i ne trenutke postaje zamorna kao i zaplet kojega je dugo odlagao. Ipak, vrlo plitko i zabavno da s rado\u0161\u0107u o\u010dekujem nastavke koje \u0107u \u010ditati. I da, nije to SF u pravom smislu rije\u010di, ve\u0107 detektivski ma\u010do tre\u0161, ali ovih dana mi to godi. ...more Set some 500 years in the future \u2013 other planets have been colonised \u2013 this is a Scifi/Cyberpunk/Noir type story set mainly on Earth with a Bladerunner (the movie) type setting. Morgan actually sites Balderunner as a major influence. Tom Merritt said he picked this up as an airport paperback and that kinda coloured his view of the book \u2013 and honestly, it does feel like that type of book \u2013 but I still loved it. Plenty of Blockbuster style action, a couple over the top sex scenes which I could do Set some 500 years in the future \u2013 other planets have been colonised \u2013 this is a Scifi/Cyberpunk/Noir type story set mainly on Earth with a Bladerunner (the movie) type setting. Morgan actually sites Balderunner as a major influence. Tom Merritt said he picked this up as an airport paperback and that kinda coloured his view of the book \u2013 and honestly, it does feel like that type of book \u2013 but I still loved it. Plenty of Blockbuster style action, a couple over the top sex scenes which I could do without, but apart from that it was a good testosterone charged read. When the main protagonist Takeshi Kovacs gets his badass on my lips curl back involuntarily and my grip on the steering wheel tightens (I listened to this on Audible) and the guy in front of me seems to speed up just a little. Speaking of Audible, I liked the narrator, Todd McLaren. Not my favourite author but far from the worst, and he grew on me during the course of the book. There is, however, an issue with the quality of the production. Inconsistent sound quality that was mostly too quiet at times. It wasn\u2019t so bad with headphones but very noticeable over the car speakers. I found myself \u201cswiping\u201d back 30 seconds quite often to catch what was being said. I still didn\u2019t find it too distracting but others I know did. Here\u2019s a glossary of some terms and names you will come across in the book Takeshi Kovacs - Main Protagonist. First person POV. Cool combination of Japanese first name and Russian last name. Hendrix - Sentient AI hotel. Craves guests. Doesn\u2019t play guitar but does a killer gun turret routine Stack - The cortical stack hardwired into the top of Kovacs\u2019 (and everyone else\u2019s) spine that stores all his memories/\u2019consciousness. The Stack can be transferred between Sleeves. Sleeve - Whatever body Kovacs stack is currently stored in. Re-Sleeving - What it\u2019s called when Kovacs stack is moved between bodies. Needlecasting \u2013 A method of transmitting information. Also how Kovacs and his old military crowd used to roll. Instead of physically being transported to another world for action, the consciousness of the soldiers (envoys) were transmitted hyperspatially(is that a word?) to the combat zone and installed into pre-prepared empty sleeves. The Double Barrel - A sentence of two hundred years in storage. Criminals don\u2019t go to jail. There stacks just get put on Ice (so to speak) and rebooted 200 years later. During that time their sleeves may be rented or leased out. In this book. Kovacs spends most of the story in a leased sleeve. Death - What happens to Kovacs Sleeve when his last mercenary action goes wrong. Real Death - What happens when Kovacs points his gun at the base of someone\u2019s skull and blows their Cortical Stack out the back of their head. Unless the person in question is rich enough to have a backup copy of themselves off site \u2013 in which case this is not real death...apparently? Meth \u2013 Someone who has experienced centuries of living (nothing to do with Walter White) Short for Methuselah, a Biblical figure who lived to 969 years old. Except the oldest Meths are only a few centuries old \u2013 hence the shortened version of the name (I made that last bit up). Kovacs is hired by a Meth to find out who killed him \u2013 or was he hired by a backup of the Meth to find who killed the original Meth \u2013 or was that Meth a backup \u2013 does it matter...Uggghhhh! And I could go on but I hope that gives you some idea. I thought this was a very cool book, even for a airport pulp fiction type paperback....on audio. 5 stars ...more I desperately want to like this book more than I do. I picked it up for the first time well over a year ago, probably closer to 2 years ago. I set the book aside, for a variety of reasons, and came back to it 4 times before finally finishing. None of this bodes well for a final rating. I love the world Morgan created but I hate every one of his characters. A 4 star rating for the world. A 2 star rating for the characters. My experience with cyberpunk is limited, something which I would like to ex I desperately want to like this book more than I do. I picked it up for the first time well over a year ago, probably closer to 2 years ago. I set the book aside, for a variety of reasons, and came back to it 4 times before finally finishing. None of this bodes well for a final rating. I love the world Morgan created but I hate every one of his characters. A 4 star rating for the world. A 2 star rating for the characters. My experience with cyberpunk is limited, something which I would like to expand upon. This book is not a prime example of what I am looking for. The characters were forced, shallow, and stereotyped, which I find amusing considering Morgan tried so hard to avoid stereotypes. He tried so hard that he accomplished the opposite of what he wanted. As for loving the world in this book, what I really meant to say is that I loved the idea of being able to shift bodies, of near immortality, and the effect of such a scenario on society. Morgan's opinion of the effect of such technology on mankind is bleak, to say the least. The Envoys, their training and such, was interesting and full of potential which Morgan did not fully realize. I feel the same with the book in general. I can not help but compare this book to Snowcrash, considering my limited experience in the cyberpunk genre. Snowcrash was effortless while Altered Carbon was forced. Snowcrash was slick and cool. Carbon was the equivalent of someone trying to be who they are not, dressing up in clothes that are not their own and attempting to fit in. Carbon just did not click with me. Other readers will love this book, especially readers who do not need a strong connection to the characters. As a side note, I am tempted to rate even lower based on the terrible sex scenes. I could handle the torture over the sex. ...more Altered Carbon has already been reviewed by everyone and their grandmother, so I won't bother to rehash the concept or storyline of this hard-boiled detective noir/cyberpunk hybrid tale set in the 25th century. It was tough to give an overall star rating (I settled on 4 stars, but I'm not sure if I can include this in my \"favorites\", since I liked some aspects of the book much more than others (a lot of people had that experience, it seems). I'll break it down as follows: World-building (5 stars) Altered Carbon has already been reviewed by everyone and their grandmother, so I won't bother to rehash the concept or storyline of this hard-boiled detective noir/cyberpunk hybrid tale set in the 25th century. It was tough to give an overall star rating (I settled on 4 stars, but I'm not sure if I can include this in my \"favorites\", since I liked some aspects of the book much more than others (a lot of people had that experience, it seems). I'll break it down as follows: World-building (5 stars): This was excellent, as Morgan really explores the implications of what cheating death by transferring digitized identities to different \"sleeves\" (bodies) would be for a future society, especially in relation to homicide (called \"Organic Damage\"), and how those with power (the \"Meths\", short for Methuselahs) can abuse this advantage. When death is more of a setback, criminals and soldiers are more willing to take reckless risks, which makes for a steady stream of violent mayhem in the book. And the rights of identities held in virtuality are also fascinating, especially when someone is interrogated or tortured. I like the details that Morgan has taken the trouble to add, including a comprehensive set of future terms and expressions to describe things. That's what makes the world feel real, and he did great (why other authors don't bother is \"another disk to spin\"). Characters (protagonist: 4 stars, supporting cast: 3 stars): Takeshi Kovacs is a sufficiently hard-boiled, cynical, world-weary Envoy (super spy/soldier/covert ops type) who is dragged unwillingly into the story. He is prone to extreme violence, but that's the world he has grown up in and that is what his line of work demands. But he tries on occasion to help others when possible. Still, his main motivations are revenge against the Meths who have put him in this mess. Other than Kovacs, however, the supporting cast members like the Bancrofts, Ortega, Trepp, Kadmin, Elliot, Kawahara, while serving to further the storyline, didn't resonate so much. And that despite a book length of 526 pages that takes place over just a few weeks. Storyline (3 stars, way too complicated and meandering): Frankly, this book could have been great at around 350 pages, since there are long stretches when the plot wanders down various dark alleyways (both literally and figuratively) for reasons that are unclear. The world is already vividly described, but with so many side-stories I started to lose track of the main storyline, and the Bancrofts who initiated the story disappear for very long stretches. The motivations of Kawahara are also unclear to me. All the dots don't need explicit connections, but it seemed like a Jackson Pollock by the end of the story, with a prefunctory 20-page epilogue to explain \"whodunit\". Overall, it's definitely a worthy read for anyone who likes cyberpunk and crime noir (as I do), but it could have been better. I do plan to read at some point the next two books, Broken Angels and Woken Furies, but I'll take a little break while the bodies are cleaned up and identities are put back on the \"stack\". ...more A very good mystery, SF, action novel - 3.5 stars It's a very imaginative world with a lot of depth to it. He didn't just take our world & slap some SF on it, but extended it out logically & added some really interesting new tech on top of that. The characters are well done, with men, women & all races treated equally, as they have to be. His hero is very interesting, as well. Not exactly amoral, but close. Takeshi is very easy to identify with as he makes his way through the complex A very good mystery, SF, action novel - 3.5 stars It's a very imaginative world with a lot of depth to it. He didn't just take our world & slap some SF on it, but extended it out logically & added some really interesting new tech on top of that. The characters are well done, with men, women & all races treated equally, as they have to be. His hero is very interesting, as well. Not exactly amoral, but close. Takeshi is very easy to identify with as he makes his way through the complex world. The plot was interesting, a who dunnit overall. It got quite complex & I wish I could have devoted more exclusive time to the book. For such a long, complex book, he did a great job of keeping the number of characters down, but there are some long pages between them in some cases & if you can't remember it all, you'll need to go back or the story gets lost. About 2/3 of the way through, the novel dragged for me. I'm not really sure why it dragged so badly, but I was close to putting it down. I'm glad I pushed through as the end was worth it. Still, I pulled a 1/2 star for that. Otherwise, it was a 4 star book. ...more I'd call this book a cyberpunk noir. I'm not going to bother summarizing the story since you've seen it in the book description and in all the other reviews. I didn't know this was Morgan's first novel but now that I do, yes, of course I'm impressed. This was smartly written and tight. I thought it was the perfect marriage of introspection and action. It kept me guessing to the end which is rare for me. Have to admit I think I enjoyed this book for my own fairly eccentric reasons: - The Hendrix: I I'd call this book a cyberpunk noir. I'm not going to bother summarizing the story since you've seen it in the book description and in all the other reviews. I didn't know this was Morgan's first novel but now that I do, yes, of course I'm impressed. This was smartly written and tight. I thought it was the perfect marriage of introspection and action. It kept me guessing to the end which is rare for me. Have to admit I think I enjoyed this book for my own fairly eccentric reasons: - The Hendrix: I love AI and the Hendrix character always left me wanting to see more of it lol. - There is some romance to the story but it isn't lace and pretty words. Morgan writes Kovacs true and I feel that he made me ache with him and that is more than a lot of authors can do! - I liked and thoroughly enjoyed the world building/history/past of Kovacs through the passages of Quell and his own memory. If there are any more books and this is a series (I haven't checked) I will gobble them up like Halloween candy. ...more I abandoned it after about 100 or so pages. I liked the future setting and the advances in technology that change the concept of life and death. Unfortunately, it read like a script for an action movie. Some good ideas, but too much senseless action and violence ruined it for me. Great genre writing, even if it is a perfect mix of noir and post-cyberpunk. I know, I know, cyberpunk is generally associated with noir 50's style tough guy private-eye pulp, only with shiny. This is different because it is POST-cyberpunk in the great tradition I love to associate with Brin's Kiln People or any of the hard-sci Stross or some of the best of Stephenson. You know, the sci taken to the second or the third steps, and then twisted and here you've got a stock character thrown into thi Great genre writing, even if it is a perfect mix of noir and post-cyberpunk. I know, I know, cyberpunk is generally associated with noir 50's style tough guy private-eye pulp, only with shiny. This is different because it is POST-cyberpunk in the great tradition I love to associate with Brin's Kiln People or any of the hard-sci Stross or some of the best of Stephenson. You know, the sci taken to the second or the third steps, and then twisted and here you've got a stock character thrown into this really messed up science fiction world and it all depends on how well the story is written, and yes, oh, yes, it is written very well and is very enjoyable. :) ...more This was pretty good contemporary cyberpunk. Morgan doesn't have William Gibson's way with words, but his characters are more interesting and his pacing and action scenes are much better. There is the potential for a space opera here - the world of Altered Carbon is a far future in which humans have spread to the stars, and the protagonist, Takeshi Kovacs, was born on another planet, but this story takes place entirely on Earth, in \"Bay City\" (what used to be San Francisco). That and all the Japa This was pretty good contemporary cyberpunk. Morgan doesn't have William Gibson's way with words, but his characters are more interesting and his pacing and action scenes are much better. There is the potential for a space opera here - the world of Altered Carbon is a far future in which humans have spread to the stars, and the protagonist, Takeshi Kovacs, was born on another planet, but this story takes place entirely on Earth, in \"Bay City\" (what used to be San Francisco). That and all the Japanese names and yakuza and such seem to be conscious nods to Gibson. Kovacs is your basic badass ex-commando killing machine with a tortured past. He used to work for the \"Envoy Corps\"; in this far future, the U.N. is apparently the interplanetary government and it trains super-soldiers as \"Envoys\" to go do all the usual killing and pacifying for what turns out to be corporate interests and rich people. Same as it ever was. Kovacs gets disillusioned and turns rogue, and the book opens with a criminal enterprise he and his girlfriend are running going very badly. This is how we are introduced to the most interesting technology in this world: \"resleeving.\" Basically, human minds can now be digitized and transferred (\"sleeved\") in new bodies. People convicted of crimes can be sentenced to virtual \"storage\" \u2014 your mind goes into a data bank for some period of time (potentially centuries) and in the meantime, someone else can buy the right to walk around in your body. Mix this with artificial intelligences and virtual worlds and you can see the possibilities for cons, grand schemes, and cunning plans are enormous. Kovacs winds up on Earth, freed from his virtual sentence following his botched enterprise in the prologue, because a very rich \"Methuselah\" (someone who's been resleeved repeatedly for hundreds of years) wants him to do a job for him. Laurens Bancroft died, violently, a few days ago, and upon being resleeved from his backup storage, he of course has no memory of what happened after his last backup. The police say either he killed himself or his wife killed him. Bancroft refuses to believe either scenario, and wants Kovacs to find out who actually blew his head off and why. This is where Altered Carbon crosses cyberpunk with a hard-boiled detective novel. Kovacs has to go looking for clues, and of course runs into all sorts of people with conflicting interests all of whom threaten him or bribe him to do what they want. The way in which he eventually uncovers what's really going on, gets caught up in an extensive web and snagged on multiple hooks and conflicting obligations, was quite skillfully plotted. He eventually unleashes bloody vengeance as is typical for this sort of story, and of course he runs up against multiple dangerous dames with whom he has a lot of graphically and sometimes laughably-described sex. If you are fond of the \"hard-boiled lone wolf bangs babes and carves a swath of bloody vengeance\" genre, then Altered Carbon is the book for you. The whole digitized humans angle contains no ideas that haven't been floating around in cyberpunk for decades now, and certainly other cyberpunk novels have been written with a noir feel to them, but this is the best of the lot I have read recently. There were some authorial indulgences (the sex scenes, the Jimi Hendrix AI-run hotel, and a whole lot of prostitutes) which are characteristic of a freshman SF novel (though I kind of liked the Hendrix). But overall, this paid tribute to its predecessors while not being wholly derivative, and I enjoyed it quite a lot, and wouldn't mind seeing a little more extra-solar SF next time. ...more The kind of book that's right up my sordid alley. All the buzzwords apply - hardboiled thriller, hardcore cyberpunk, adrenaline-pumping pace, gritty, noir, sexy, atmospheric, action-packed, credible plot, fantastic world-building, artificial intelligence, and tough guy complex protagonist. Altered Carbon takes us into 25th century Earth, the most ancient of civilized world. Advanced civilization now exists across the galaxy under the vigilant governance of the U.N. Bodies are but shells, as a per The kind of book that's right up my sordid alley. All the buzzwords apply - hardboiled thriller, hardcore cyberpunk, adrenaline-pumping pace, gritty, noir, sexy, atmospheric, action-packed, credible plot, fantastic world-building, artificial intelligence, and tough guy complex protagonist. Altered Carbon takes us into 25th century Earth, the most ancient of civilized world. Advanced civilization now exists across the galaxy under the vigilant governance of the U.N. Bodies are but shells, as a person\u2019s consciousness is stored in implanted cortical stack to be cloned or transferred from an old body to a new body. Enhanced, primed, retro-fitted to your desire - \u201cre-sleeved\u201d into a killing machine, a pleasure toy, a work of art, an interrogation victim, an ageless power player. Yet, no matter how sophisticated the technology is, the primitive heart of men remains savage. Takeshi Kovacs is an Envoy, U.N. militia, neurally conditioned elite super-soldier. A man of multiple re-sleeves, Kovacs finds himself in the body of Detective Ryker, strong-armed into the murder-suicide investigation of his immensely powerful three-centuries old patron. What followed is a heart-thumping, bodies-dropping, soul-searching weave in and out of decadent Bay City (formerly San Francisco), that keeps you at the edge of your seat till a conclusive end. So, pretty much the standard Sci-Fi crime-solving trope. A formula replicated into countless TV series of similar premise, which never fails to entice a audience. I am no exception. Deep down in my primitive heart, I\u2019m just an unabashed sucker for Sci-Fi escapist stories like this, to be enjoyed in the moment, forgotten with the next book and moved on to other bright lights. Coming to Netflix, 2017. [Edit 1/16/17: (view spoiler) [ Books like this, I don't pay attention to the prose unless it was original and outstanding. It was not, but had a pace and quality that matched the theme of the story, so it was did the job well enough. On hindsight, two peeves to note (they felt like mini-brakes in my train of thoughts because I was getting irritated) - \"Fractionally\" was used at least a dozen times, usually to denote a sec too late, or a barely imperceptible reaction. \"Centuries too late\" used a few times by Kovacs when he reacted too slowly with his gun while being shot at.] (hide spoiler) ] ] ...more I hate this book. Hate, hate, hate it. I hate the characters, I hate the plot, I hate the cover, I hate the way it smells, and I hate the way it knocked over a lamp when I frisbeed it across the room in a fit of literary angst. It came to me highly recommended by a number of friends, good friends, caring, kind, and well-read friends who share with me a love of speculative fiction. We all love Snow Crash and Neuromancer and Babylon 5, and we all hate football and direct sunlight. We are all scien I hate this book. Hate, hate, hate it. I hate the characters, I hate the plot, I hate the cover, I hate the way it smells, and I hate the way it knocked over a lamp when I frisbeed it across the room in a fit of literary angst. It came to me highly recommended by a number of friends, good friends, caring, kind, and well-read friends who share with me a love of speculative fiction. We all love Snow Crash and Neuromancer and Babylon 5, and we all hate football and direct sunlight. We are all science or engineering majors, and therefore we spent our socially-awkward, bespectacled childhoods sitting in the back of French class, surreptitiously reading The Lord of the Rings under our desks while Monsieur Charpentier tried to teach us the subjunctive mood. What I'm trying to say is that yes, I have a certain amount of nerd cred, and come from a background well-suited to an appreciation of cyberpunk. So when I heard about Altered Carbon, I didn\u2019t hesitate to pick it up. My main problem with this book can be summed up as everything. Seriously, everything. Every single aspect of this book conspired together to instill in me a strange mixture of despair, anger, and boredom. To call the characters one-dimensional would be an insult to the number line. The plot is convoluted and nonsensical. The protagonist, Takeshi Kovacs, is an Envoy, a sort of highly-trained, elite interstellar soldier, and one of the most blitheringly stupid morons I\u2019ve had the displeasure of reading about. New technologies are condensed out of thin air to arbitrarily move the plot along. Every character to whom the reader is supposed to be sympathetic is either an unlikable asshole, an idiot, or both. Choose two: Incompetent, unlikable, clich\u00e9. Bam, you\u2019ve described a character in Altered Carbon. And then there\u2019s the violence. Now, I thoroughly enjoyed The Repossession Mambo (renamed Repo Men after the movie came out), a book so blood-soaked that it\u2019s practically a biohazard. Somehow, Morgan has managed to craft a work of prose so exquisitely brutish that it made me uncomfortable. That\u2019s actually kind of impressive. Good job. Morgan also seems to have a fascination with the word \u201cenzyme.\u201d It gets a little weird. At the end of the day, I ended up putting this book down six-sevenths of the way through because I found out there was a sequel, dashing my hopes that Kovacs would permanently die in a horrible way on the last page. By around the halfway point, I was literally reading Altered Carbon out of pure spite. I hate this book, I hate Richard Morgan, and I hate you. Not because you deserve it -- you are probably a perfectly fine human being, or a reasonable facsimile thereof -- but because any time I think about Altered Carbon I am unable to experience any emotion but unending, bitter, sobbing hatred. I read (most of) Altered Carbon and came out the other side a changed man, and not for the better. Please, for the love of all that you hold dear, don\u2019t read this book. And if you do, don\u2019t tell me that you enjoyed it or I might just vomit all over you and/or punch you in the solar plexus before you have a chance to say \u201cpostmodern.\u201d Now if you\u2019ll excuse me, I am going to hug a cat and watch a Pixar movie. If that doesn\u2019t cheer me up, I\u2019ll probably be forced to check out every copy of Altered Carbon from a library, light them on fire, throw the ashes into a river, and listen to Smile Empty Soul songs until I can\u2019t feel emotions anymore. ...more Content: 3 stars Audio Quality and Narration: 1 star Set in the far future, the story is told in the first person point of view by U.N. Takeshi Kovacs. In this future world, people have \"stacks\" implanted in their brains. At intervals, people can upload their personalities and memories into a central repository. When a person dies, as long as his stack is undamaged, his memories can be reinstalled into another body, in a procedure known as \"sleeving\". As a result, some people live on for hundreds Content: 3 stars Audio Quality and Narration: 1 star Set in the far future, the story is told in the first person point of view by U.N. Takeshi Kovacs. In this future world, people have \"stacks\" implanted in their brains. At intervals, people can upload their personalities and memories into a central repository. When a person dies, as long as his stack is undamaged, his memories can be reinstalled into another body, in a procedure known as \"sleeving\". As a result, some people live on for hundreds of years, gaining wealth, power and influence over their lifetimes. On the other hand, punishment usually consists of a temporary death, so that when reborn, a prisoner is awakened into a world that has passed him by. Kovacs is reborn into the body of a disgraced policeman, on the condition that he help an ancient man solve a mystery. Why did the old man seem to commit suicide? Did he really commit suicide, and if so, what was his motive? Or, more likely, who set up his death to look like a suicide, and how? Kovacs is a very powerful guy, but that does not prevent him from getting into lots of trouble as he tries his best to solve the mystery. He is swept from one violent encounter to the next, not understanding the forces that are treating him like a pinball. This story is definitely not for squeamish readers. It has graphic descriptions of violence, torture and sex. Those sections of the story really put me off. Also, this type of science fiction has a logical non-sequitur that bothers me a great deal. When a consciousness is injected into another body after death, it seems to me that the person has really and truly died. The body that has his consciousness is simply another person with the same memories; how can there be any real continuity in the person's consciousness? In this story, this dilemma is examined from a weird angle; the main character's consciousness is injected into two separate bodies, and the two of them have to decide who is to die, and who is to live on. (view spoiler) [After much discussion using logic and justice, they finally decide who is to live on, by playing rock-paper-scissors! (hide spoiler) ] I didn't read this book; I listened to the audiobook. I must say that the narrator, Todd McLaren, is not as good as most other narrators. He does very little to adjust his voice and accent to help the listener identify the speakers during the dialogs. I also must mention that Tantor Audio should be ashamed of the low quality of the audio recording. It is very quiet. They should hire recording engineers who are better at their job, and they should also do some quality control. ...more Well, well, well, this took me by surprise. I had fairly high expectations for Richard K. Morgan 's first Takeshi Kovacs novel for a number of reasons: 1. many of y'all love these books, and plenty of you have told me to read them; 2. I have read and loved the first two parts of his A Land Fit for Heroes trilogy; 3. this book had seriously fast Hollywood attention; 4. I dig Sci-Fi. So I tried to read it and reached page 10, then I quit. Then I tried to read it again and reached page 12, then I qu Well, well, well, this took me by surprise. I had fairly high expectations for Richard K. Morgan 's first Takeshi Kovacs novel for a number of reasons: 1. many of y'all love these books, and plenty of you have told me to read them; 2. I have read and loved the first two parts of his A Land Fit for Heroes trilogy; 3. this book had seriously fast Hollywood attention; 4. I dig Sci-Fi. So I tried to read it and reached page 10, then I quit. Then I tried to read it again and reached page 12, then I quit. But this last time I reached page 13, then kept going and going and going. It was even better than I expected. Morgan smashes together Gibson's Sprawl with Banks' Culture with his own brand of sensual violence and comes up with a society advanced to near immortality without ever unshackling itself from market forces and the power elite, maintaining, further entrenching and magnifying our current inequities and iniquities. It is all done in the voice of Kovacs himself -- Envoy, mercenary with a salient conscience, sleeving master, and all around bad ass -- who turns out to be one of the finest first person narrators I've read. Whether he was in a fevered drug state, double sleeved, doing battle, or busy between a pair of muscled, toned legs, I believed in his existence. Hell, Kovacs is so genuine I wouldn't be surprised if Morgan somehow tapped into Kovacs stack and ripped off his tale wholesale. He is just that real to me. When I finished the book today, I drove into town and went straight to the bookstore, not imagining for a second that Broken Angels wouldn't be on the shelf. I didn't want to end my conversation with Kovacs, but it wasn't there. None of the Kovacs books were. If I'd had a splinter gun I might have taken off a head on my way out the door, but I had to settle for a head shake and a sneer. I guess I am going to have to wait a day or two longer (more like a week or two) to hear Kovacs whisper in my brain once again. I wonder if I could wangle a medically induced coma until my book arrives in the mail. Would that make the books arrival feel faster or slower? Hmmm. ...more This book was a rocket-ride of action from start to finish. Any time I've mentioned cyberpunk someone has asked if I've read this. I was long putting it off because I thought it would be much different to what it actually is. It was always mentioned in the same breath as William Gibson whose books I just have never been able to get in to. So it was with much hesitance that I picked this up. Now I think \"Why the hell did I wait so long?\" This book isn't slow and stodgy. It's a drug-fuelled, gun-pa This book was a rocket-ride of action from start to finish. Any time I've mentioned cyberpunk someone has asked if I've read this. I was long putting it off because I thought it would be much different to what it actually is. It was always mentioned in the same breath as William Gibson whose books I just have never been able to get in to. So it was with much hesitance that I picked this up. Now I think \"Why the hell did I wait so long?\" This book isn't slow and stodgy. It's a drug-fuelled, gun-packing, no-holds-barred, sex machine love child of cyberpunk and noir. In a world where the rich can live forever and the poor just die an offworld ex-special agent is tasked with uncovering a mystery that leads right through the worst parts of the city. This is a perfect mix-match of the genres. The high-tech and the grimy and it's welded seamlessly. I didn't want to put this book down til I was finished. I wouldn't pick this book up if you're easily offended but otherwise I'd recommend it to any one. I've heard the sequels aren't really worth the effort but it works fine as a standalone. ...more", "Title": "Altered Carbon"},
