{"Comments": "\"A surprising four stars.<---F> Do with it what you will</---F>.\" ~ Me, high on a series ending. I've been doing some thinking,<---M> and now that the rain is gone</---M>, I can see clearly. This piece of shit book doesn't deserve any stars. It deserves negative fucking stars. It was a chore to get through, and Goodreads can erase this review all they want - it doesn't change the fact that <---A>Cassandra Clare</---A> is a fucking snake in the grass. Inexplicable is this series' success. The first three books were fun fluff, but could \"A surprising four stars. Do with it what you will.\" ~ Me, high on a series ending. I've been doing some thinking, and now that the rain is gone, I can see clearly. This piece of shit book doesn't deserve any stars. It deserves negative fucking stars. It was a chore to get through, and Goodreads can erase this review all they want - it doesn't change the fact that Cassandra Clare is a fucking snake in the grass. Inexplicable is this series' success. The first three books were fun fluff, but could have been written by a nine-year-old. The second half of the trilogy is an absolute shitstorm of garbage. Problematic garbage, be it the romanticization of a white boy exerting dating violence against a black girl (<---B>and the subsequent back-pedalling</---B>); the sanitizing of a lesbian relationship; the portrayal of a horribly abusive gay relationship; constant threats of suicide; Latino characters adhering to the stereotype of \"muttering in Spanish\" and speaking in broken English; silent, nameless female werewolves who do nothing but bind wounds and cook; characters cracking jokes seconds after being informed of massive massacres happening just shy of their doorsteps; characters of colour who all have absent, fucked-up, or horrible parents/families; a queer character of colour who is a complete and utter creep, and a compulsive liar; characters of colour who all have abusive pasts, presents, or who die; and this is all separate from Clare's Tumblr blog, where she uses the embarrassingly offensive \"trans asterisk\" (othering marginalized gender identities to a footnote, an afterthought, and asterisk) and where she explains away all of these extremely problematic elements with numerous essays in which reader's words are twisted, Clare is alleviated of any blame despite the words being printed on the page in black and white, and all of it comes back to you fucking reader assholes who should just be grateful that there's even a book for you to read. How dare you call an author out on her problematic portrayal of gay relationships, her problematic portrayal of people of colour, her problematic portrayal of women? You're really only calling her out because you're sexist and racist and homophobic yourself. Apparently, it doesn't matter if you are black, or genderqueer, or Latina and a lesbian, or Polynesian and bisexual. No, you're wrong, and white, straight Clare is correct. And you can all go stuff yourselves. Remember when everyone wondered why Suzanne Collins was so silent online? And everyone wondered why Laini Taylor didn't give very many interviews? This is why. Because they recognize that you write what you write, and if it's problematic, then it's problematic, and maybe you try to do better next time. Or, like them, you do a good job in the beginning and there's nothing to apologize for. Clare understands no such rule. You have to read her book, and then you have to go on her Tumblr and trawl through all of her essays where she screams, \"No! Wait, I can explain [problematic thing]! I swear! It's only problematic because you're wrong and I'm right and here's why!\" Like I said, you write what you write, and if what you write can't speak for itself, then you need to go back to the drawing board and think about doing some more drafting before you commit to the printing press. But it's not like these complaints are solely about her writing: she's been a massive problem on the internet since before her publishing days, when she bullied Harry Potter fanfic writers and called a gap-toothed twelve-year-old Tom Felton ugly. I guess I shouldn't be ripping the author a new one, since that violates this fucking joke of a Goodreads rule about \"not critiquing the author\" but I don't care. I never, ever badmouth any authors. Even the great shitstorm of 2012 was not begun because I wrote a review that bitch-slapped an author, no matter what anyone is still insisting two years later. I actually don't approve of criticizing authors along with their books, because it is unethical, and you cannot make a judgement against someone that you don't know. It's unfair. Clare, however, is an exception. I abhor the way she behaves. Like I said, it's a huge mistake to be so terribly present online, especially when your only goal is to tell readers that they \"don't get you\" and that they're wrong, or bigoted, because they don't like your books. That never ends well. It only ends in reviews like this. As I said before, the success of this series is appalling, but it's not as great a success as many would attest to: after all, the movie absolutely bombed, and while certain cheerleaders will swear blind that the second book is being made into a movie, and they only postponed it, they didn't cancel it...I'm here to burst your bubble. I'll probably be married with three kids and a golden retriever in Barbados before that happens. They barely broke even with the City of Bones movie. Making another - which, statistically, would gather even fewer viewers - is just bad business sense. But all of this has precious little to do with this instalment - <+++>City of Heavenly Fire</+++> . Needless to say, the two year wait left me drier than rye bread. Having taken two years to write, shouldn't it have been epic? Shouldn't it have been absolutely breathtaking? It was nothing of the sort. It was dreadful. First of all, seven hundred pages? Really? I have a huge problem with overlong books. It feels cheeky, to write a book that's thicker than a brick and filled with so much unnecessary shit that could have sliced it down to a more manageable five hundred. After all, Emma and the LA Institute's chapters were nothing but padding. Apparently they were \"part of the plot\" but I see no evidence for this. In fact, I see evidence to the contrary. I started out skimming Emma's chapters, but by about forty-five percent I was outright skipping them. As in, not reading a single word of them. This did not in any way affect my ability to understand the progression of the shoddy, half-baked, contrived, poorly-concieved and overtired plot. In fact, I could have read the whole book on Recaptains and been just as satisfied as I am now. So, as luck would have it, Sebastian has started slaughtering Shadowhunters worldwide, and feeding them demon blood so that they become his drones. Then the surviving Shadowhunters completely abandon the human world and retreat to Idris, while Sebastian slaughters Downworlders - which is apparently funny, since after discovering that he has massacred the Praetor Lupus and killed Jordan, Clary and Simon share a hilarious joke about her silly pyjamas and oh, well! At least we, the important ones, didn't die horribly. Clare of course explains this away with some garbage about people aaaaaalways caring more about white men, but her flailing stab at social justice fails miserably. How she can possibly try to justify making a joke just after discovering that a genocide has taken place, I cannot imagine. I had my complaints about the forgiving of genocide in Laini Taylor's Daughter of Smoke and Bone series, but at least it was treated with some tact. At least it wasn't fucking laughed at. After we discover that the Endarkened (the poisoned Shadowhunters) are completely incurable and that this YA book that is marketed to teenagers is an allegory for how, when things get bad, you should just give up, and also how putting yourself in mortal danger very rarely ends in actual death, the now evil fairies kidnap Luke, Magnus, Jocelyn and Raphael for Jonathan's means, to a demon dimension named Edom. Of the four of them, it is the people of colour who suffer the most - Magnus is crippled by the atmosphere of the realm and the presence of his demon father, and Raphael dies - and then of course the motley main crew dive into Edom without a second thought in the name of saving their kidnapped comrades. Jace and Clary have sex there, <---C>Alec</---C> is humiliated and painted as a huge hypochondriac for being sensitive to casual homophobia (plus, he drinks a lot), Simon and Isabelle desperately try to convince readers that they love each other and that Simon isn't still hung up on Clary, and Sebastian reels off more enormous monologues and quotes things that are not cited. Seriously, what is he quoting? Of course, they kill Sebastian and then all is well until, oh noes, Magnus's father springs into the picture! And he looks exactly like Lucifer in Alexandra Adornetto's Hades , the Colonel Sanders of the underworld. To save Magnus, Simon gives away his immortality and his memories of the Shadowhunter's world. Then they all go home happy. That is, of course, until Isabelle and Magnus selfishly blow a massive hole through Simon's peaceful human life and destroy his second chance at being a normal human boy whose every moment is not tainted by the possibility of death. The theme of this book appears to be love and relationships and family, but it isn't at all. This book is about selfishness, greed, pointless sacrifice, recklessness and how nobody deserves a second chance...except abusive people. I call foul on Clare's insistence that the relationships she writes are in some way, nay, in any way, healthy. We're supposed to root unconditionally for Jace, despite his inner monologue confessing that if Clary leaves him he will kill himself. In COFA, we were supposed to root unconditionally for Maia and Jordan, and again in COLS, because we were expected to forgive a white man assaulting a woman of colour and ripping away her humanity (after all, he did learn to do yoga and find his chakras and stuff and that means he's a way better person). This was all back-pedalled against in COHF, where everything that happened in the previous two books was forgotten, which was quite obviously, and very hilariously, a massive backtrack due to fans' outrage against this relationship. Literally everything between them is peachy in the previous two books, people got mad, and then Clare flipped it all in the final book. But there's an essay written about this, and it informs us all that we're fucking racist sexist pieces of shit for finding fault with the whole Jordan/Maia storyline. We're wrong, Clare is right, and fuck us, fucking asshole readers. How dare we. By far the worst offence in relationships is Alec and Magnus, and the kicker is that it's untouchable: take it to Clare and she'll tell you you're homophobic because you see a problem with this relationship. You dare criticize Malec? Fuck you. Piece of crap. Alec and Magnus's relationship is scary, not only because Magnus talks to Alec like he's twelve, but because he's such a creepy fucking liar. He lies about everything. Their entire relationship has been fabricated by Magnus, and I can't believe I was taken in by this series in its first three books. How did I let that happen? I was sucked in. I regret this. I regret not realizing what Magnus was doing to Alec throughout COA and COG, that is, his pressuring Alec to come out of the closet. Let's take a minute and think about this. Coming out is so personal, it is so delicate, and it is so unbelievably dangerous for some people. It was unbelievably dangerous for Alec. He could have been disowned by his parents, disowned by the Clave, utterly ostracized. And what did Magnus do? Pressure him, pressure him some more, and then a little more for good measure. \"Why are you keeping me a secret? Why are you so weak? Why can't you tell everyone about me?\" It was so twisted, wasn't it? Look back and tell me that it wasn't twisted. Even when Alec did come out in COG it was all about Magnus: it was about him proving something to Magnus. It was about showing Magnus that he could kiss him in public. That's so unfair. So unfair . It's Alec's identity and it was Alec's moment but what we got was fanservice and a big stroke to Magnus's ego. It is not your partner's business when or how you decide to come out. Coming out is not about them, it is about you. It is a personal journey that can pose serious emotional, mental, and physical risks. Look at how many mogii people are brutalized or even killed because of their identities. But abuse thrives on fear, doesn't it? It thrives on fear and guilt. As long as an abuser's victim feels afraid and guilty, then their life's a peach. Then abusing is easy. I wish Alec and Magnus had ended up apart. I wish Magnus had fucked off out of Alec's life forever. I wish Alec had found someone who wasn't such a fucking creep, but this is TMI, and it's Cassandra Clare. Creepy and sick relationships are the absolute foundation of this series. This series is also based on false promises: six people will die! Stakes will be so high! You'll love all the new characters! There will be two weddings! OMG! In print, all of that shit was just boring as fuck. We met Magnus's father...and it was boring. The deaths happened...and they were Mauve Shirt deaths. I don't even remember the weddings. The new characters arrived...and they were so boring that I was completely happy to omit them from my experience altogether. We could have lost Simon, but Clare is too safe an author. Why are so many people creaming their panties over her being \"risky\" and \"heartbreaking\"? Everything in Clare's books is overwhelmingly safe. The bad guys lose, the good guys win, the Mauve Shirts die. Simon losing his immortality and going back to a mundane life could have been amazing, if Isabelle and creepy Magnus hadn't found him and completely ruined his chance at being a normal human boy. It's just so fucking selfish. Simon had a chance. A real chance. And it was shot to shit because Isabelle had dated him for maybe three months, and wanted him back? She and Magnus literally ruined Simon's life all over again for their own personal gain. That is gross. Speaking of Isabelle, I love how Clare tries to shoehorn in this fake friendship between her and Clary so that she can write an essay about \"sisterhood\" when, in actuality, there has been absolutely no development of the relationship between them whatsoever. I actually assumed they hated each other because the tie between them was so cold and unfeeling. They never talk, they never share anything, they never spend any time together at all. They do, however, spend a plethora of time with men. I cannot stress how disappointed it makes me when authors try for \"girl power\" but then neglect one of the most important elements of feminist fictional media: female friendship. Relationships between women. I can count on one hand the number of female relationships in this book, and all but one are horribly dysfunctional. The only mildly acceptable one is the glossed-over lesbian relationship between Aline and Helen, but their screen time is minute, they never kiss, and at the end they are banished to the Arctic. It's all fine and well having a heroine who can throw her weight around. Anyone can punch someone, stab someone, hurl a whip. But writing actual feminist literature requires so much more than that. Just because your heroine can kick a door open doesn't make her a role model, or even strong. It means that you've taken the caricature Action Girl, created by men who had no idea how to create female characters that weren't simplified, polarized, and horrendously oversexualized, and applied it to this \"feminist novel\". You are not trying hard enough, and we are disappointed. This book is a giant shitstorm. I don't recommend it to anyone. Not even people I hate. Not even Rush Limbaugh. He might get ideas. ...more This review and more can be found on Living for the Books Finally, this prolonged series comes to an end and while I wish I could say that I'll really miss the characters, I probably won't. To be completely honest, I used to adore this series back when I first read it about four years ago, but I feel like it no longer has the same appeal as it once did. I'm pretty sure I only picked this book up out of habit The biggest issue I had with this book was that the characters focus on the wrong things. This review and more can be found on Living for the Books Finally, this prolonged series comes to an end and while I wish I could say that I'll really miss the characters, I probably won't. To be completely honest, I used to adore this series back when I first read it about four years ago, but I feel like it no longer has the same appeal as it once did. I'm pretty sure I only picked this book up out of habit The biggest issue I had with this book was that the characters focus on the wrong things. The world is basically coming to an end and instead of caring about that, most of the characters seemed concerned with their love lives. Thank goodness there was no Clary and Jace drama, I don't think I could ever take more of that. Instead they're mostly happy for the book, even when they're hunting down Sebastian in the demon realms. They were kinda of sappy, but so were all the other characters. At least the characters were still sarcastic and more than once I laughed at the dialogue between the characters. A couple characters do die, but for me it wasn't that big of a deal. I didn't shed a single tear for any of the characters that died in this book, but I was practically sobbing about the mentions of characters from The Infernal Devices. The deaths didn't really serve a purpose other than to kill off a couple of characters because it didn't really seem to move the plot forward. The villain, Sebastian, was alright I guess. I didn't like him all that much because I thought he was strange. At first he wants to kill all the Shadowhunters and then his plans change a great deal when Clary, Jace, and all the others, find him in the demon realms. His plans for Clary are disturbing and he's basically an evil mastermind, but I never got the wow he's a great villain feeling. I'm not exactly sure why, but I think it may be partially because I'm just so done with this series. I wasn't expecting to be blown away by this book and I wasn't, but I still enjoyed it. I laughed, I cried, I rolled my eyes, I wanted to throw the book, but in the end it was a decent ending to a series that should have ended three books ago. If I hadn't given up on Shadowhunter books I might be tempted to pick up the next series because the new characters are kind of adorable, but I think for now I'm done with the Shadowhunter world. .............................. Me when I found out the release date: Just finished City of Lost Souls and now I have to wait 2 more YEARS before I can read this book! It's going to be torture I tell you! Pure TORTURE! At least Clockwork Princess is coming out in 2013 otherwise I think I might go insane from this wait! I LOVE the title it just makes you want to read this even more. I mean who wouldn't want to read a book called <+++>City of Heavenly Fire</+++>? On another note...if Magnus and Alec don't get back together someone is going to get hurt because they are awesome together! I just thought of something...what if the world ends before this book comes out? WE WILL NEVER KNOW HOW THIS SERIES ENDS IF THE WORLD ENDS! How can they do this to me? Edit: *clears throat* so um you have to understand that when I posted this I thought TMI series was the best thing since sliced bread. To be honest I probably thought that because I hadn't read that many books at that point so I had nothing to compare it to. Books 1-3 were good but after that I now think the series has gone downhill especially after the movie. I'll still read this book but to be honest I'm not as excited about it. 2 years is a long time and my taste in books has changed drastically since then. I'll keep the top part because it feels wrong to delete it. And this is why I'll never post a review of a book before it comes out. Edit 2: What even is that cover? ...more I was thinking up until the last 200 pages that this was definitely going to be a 3 star read, but that ending completely changed my mind. It really made up for the first chunk of the book. *UPDATE* REVIEW TO COME SOON *UPDATE* OMG COVER COVER COVER. COOOOOOOVER!!!! THAT COVER. Clary's friggin wearing white and I CANNOT. What do you guys think? Personally I think it's beautiful. After you get over the fact that Clary's wearing white. And it's Clastian. OK OK OK. WRITE OBSESSIVE FANGIRLY REVIEW MODE. ON. 2000 FRIGGIN 14 EH!?!?!?!!?!?! MUST YOU KILL ME CASSIE. MUSSSST YOUUUU!???? WHYYYYYYY!?????????? BUT WE ALL KNOW...INSIDE...I'M JUST... THAT DOESN'T EVEN BEGIN TO COVER HOW I FEEL. BU *UPDATE* REVIEW TO COME SOON *UPDATE* OMG COVER COVER COVER. COOOOOOOVER!!!! THAT COVER. Clary's friggin wearing white and I CANNOT. What do you guys think? Personally I think it's beautiful. After you get over the fact that Clary's wearing white. And it's Clastian. OK OK OK. WRITE OBSESSIVE FANGIRLY REVIEW MODE. ON. 2000 FRIGGIN 14 EH!?!?!?!!?!?! MUST YOU KILL ME CASSIE. MUSSSST YOUUUU!???? WHYYYYYYY!?????????? BUT WE ALL KNOW...INSIDE...I'M JUST... THAT DOESN'T EVEN BEGIN TO COVER HOW I FEEL. BUT IT SHOULD DO FOR NOW. O_O ...more The fascinating world of shadowhunters and downworlders has always intrigued me with it's rich world-building. The characters, so true and relatable, including those few twisted ones, have all contributed to making this one of my favorite book series of all time. Add in some adventure, romance, and humor, and you've got a recipe for success. The last installment of the Mortal Instruments was nothing short of unforgettable. There were so many things I loved with it, but also things I regretted Cas The fascinating world of shadowhunters and downworlders has always intrigued me with it's rich world-building. The characters, so true and relatable, including those few twisted ones, have all contributed to making this one of my favorite book series of all time. Add in some adventure, romance, and humor, and you've got a recipe for success. The last installment of the Mortal Instruments was nothing short of unforgettable. There were so many things I loved with it, but also things I regretted Cassie didn't explore futher. I guess with a book series as large as this one it would be hard, if not impossible, to address everything . All in all, City of Heavenly Fire was deeply affecting, a real page-turner with both heartbreaking and truly happy moments. Few books have managed to touch me this way; last time was Clockwork Princess, and I swear, it took me months to even consider picking up a new book to read. Months . That's how emotional it got me. There is a war in this book. The end-of-the-world type of war, and however clich\u00e9 that may sound, let me assure you, it is not. Maybe, just maybe , I'm too invested in this series, but I found the build up to be realistic. The war will bring destruction, but it will also pave the way to a hopefully brighter future (view spoiler) [(if you consider the fey to be a smaller threat than Sebastian) (hide spoiler) ] . It will shape the lives of the survivors, and lead to the ascension of new warriors. (view spoiler) [Am I the only one who at \"We have lost so many. It has been a long time since death undid so many Nephilim. We must reach out into the mundane world, find those who might Ascend, teach and train them\" almost yelled out \" TAKE ME! TAKE ME! \" I guess it all just felt so real ... like I was there. Damn it. (hide spoiler) ] Essentially, The Mortal Instruments is a story about bravery and sacrifice and friendship, and encircling all of these, is love and compassion. It's about how caring about others and about the world we live in can only make it better. That's what I'm taking away from this story. That and overly exaggerated expectations of how my next boyfriend should be like. If you're not anywhere close to as awesome as Jace Herondale is, I'm done with you. . . I just might up never getting married, but that's OK.... (view spoiler) [A slight input on the topic of Herondales, is it just me who got this big lump in my throat whenever there were any mentions of them, and references to Will in particular? I just have such a soft spot for all things Herondale. Jem's love for, and determination to save the last of the Herondale family, undid me. If the chance comes before me to save the last of the Herondale bloodline, I consider that of higher importance than the fealty I render the Clave . This is why I wish there was more interaction between Jace and Jem, more Tessa and Jace, more explaining. I guess I do understand their decision to \"wait\". It makes sense from their point of view, just not from mine, ha! And I absolutely loved it when Jem said: \"No other family does so much for love, or feels so much guilt over it. Don't carry the weight of the world on you, Jace. It's too heavy for even a Herondale to bear.\" (hide spoiler) ] I will miss Clary, Jace, and the rest of the gang (really, miss is putting it lightly, I will probably agonize over the loss of them). And I hope to maybe see some cameos of them in the Dark Artifices. Maybe Cassie will even consider writing a short story of Tessa and Jace's talk about the Herondale family? One can only hope! *** PRE-REVIEW (Aug, 2010) If City of Heavenly Fire is to be published year 2013, it evidently means that there will be no end of the world year 2012! This is GOOD news! *UPDATE* 25/11-2012 We WILL survive! Ms. Clare wouldn't do this to us if she wasn't ABSOLUTELY sure the world isn't ending in less than a month... *me looks nervously at the calendar* *UPDATE* 23/12-2012 Told ya :P[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more UPDATE 1/15/14 So the cover was released. Though I appreciate that the faces are a little more implicit than they were in the past two, I'm rather disappointed; there's something a little cheesy about it, and it looks kind of like a rehash of CoFA. Plus, Clary's hair... I get that she's part angel, but that's such an unnatural shade of red, and I never got the vibe that she dyed it. Also the city-scape at the bottom was always a favorite element, and it's just not as prominent here, so I'm bummed UPDATE 1/15/14 So the cover was released. Though I appreciate that the faces are a little more implicit than they were in the past two, I'm rather disappointed; there's something a little cheesy about it, and it looks kind of like a rehash of CoFA. Plus, Clary's hair... I get that she's part angel, but that's such an unnatural shade of red, and I never got the vibe that she dyed it. Also the city-scape at the bottom was always a favorite element, and it's just not as prominent here, so I'm bummed. Ah, well. Maybe it'll grow on me. And just to avoid misconceptions, I want to clarify that I get it: don't judge books by their covers; it's merely a picture representing the existence of a book, not the content or quality; the production team designed it, not Cassandra Clare; some people might actually really love this cover anyway; and that's all fine. I just don't think it's as epic as it could have been. UPDATE 1/1/14 So apparently, assuming the pictures of Cassandra Clare's Twitter posts seen in other reviews are correct, the \"WHO WILL SURVIVE?\" label on the placeholder cover of the book is not only for dramatic effect. Allegedly, six characters we \"know by name\" will die. This actually makes me want to read the book more. Not because I have a fervent desire to watch all the characters die (at this point I'm rather indifferent), but because it means that things are finally going to be taken seriously. Those lovely teenage shadowhunters aren't just running around drawing runes and fighting abstract villains; they're risking (and potentially losing) their lives. And after the excessive melodrama, angst, and somberness of the past two books, which have decidedly left the light playfulness of the original trilogy behind in favor of a darker tone, I think it's time the stakes were raised. My Predictions: (please read from an objective standpoint while keeping in mind that my guess is no more valid or accurate than anyone else's) 1. I'm only banking on one, two at most major players dying. 2. Of Clary, Jace, Isabelle, Simon, Alec, and Magnus (the six I consider main characters), my money is on Magnus or Alec, Magnus more than Alec. One of them will die in a self-sacrficing manor for the other, but not quickly enough that they don't have time for a heart-breaking emotionally-manipulative goodbye. Yes, it would be sad, but that's the point . Of the six mains, they're probably the least prominent. The death of one would bring the necessary tragedy and oomph without entirely destroying the dynamic of the group. And seeing as Clare has a tendency to revisit, I'm guessing that she'd want to preserve as much of that dynamic as she can. I'm thinking Magnus will be the one to go. He's 800 years old. He's had his time. If he went out gorgeously and dramatically and in the name of true love a la Eponine in Les Miz.... there are worse ends a person can meet. To quote The Smiths, \"To die by your side is such a heavenly way to die... the pleasure, the privilege is mine.\" I like to think Magnus would view it as such. 3. Isabelle will \"die\" and join Simon in vampire-dom, resulting in a political discussion about ending Downworlder hate and an alliance between Shadowhunters and Downworlders. 4. The other five (four, technically) deaths will be minor characters. Maia and Jordan will go out in battle and die peacefully together, akin to Tonks and Lupin in HP7. They're cute enough characters for their deaths to elicit a wince, maybe a few tears, but to minimal fierce protests or hate mail. Luke and Jocelyn might also end up on the chopping block, to set Clary up as a Harry Potter-esque orphan of war figure. 5. This last one is the one I'm really uncertain about, but also hoping for the most. Sebastian must die. If he doesn't, and if they don't burn or otherwise destroy his dead body, I will be unhappy, because that would meant there's a potential of his return and more books, and I'm sorry, but I'm done. I don't want to read about Clary and Jace and Company anymore because they've had six looong books already (this one's rumored at 700+ pages), and I think it would be best for everyone if Clare said goodbye gracefully. That's not a statement of hate, that's a statement of 'sometimes you just have to let the story end'. Learn from the mistakes of those before you who have tried to needlessly extend franchises (Spielberg, Lucas, etc.), and have the wisdom to understand that it's not the way to go. Anyway, those are my predictions. Regardless of how it ends, I think we can assume that the MI fandom is headed for dark days and destined to replace the angsting dark humor of the post-Reichenbach Sherlock fandom before it. Brace yourselves for the 'I laughed and then cried' type jokes about a character's death, and highly emotional soppy fanfiction about characters going on without the other half of their OTP. There will be tears, there will be laughs, there will be crazy. Embrace it. Revel in it. This is where it gets fun. And besides, if things end awfully or you just can't cope with the fact that the series is over, I doubt you'll be in withdrawal for long. Even if Clare doesn't write a book 7, you can bet the Shadowhunter crew will make cameos in her books to come. Even if I'm done with it all, for those willing to stick with her, I'm guessing this is only the beginning. UPDATE 1/10/13 111 (best number) likes for a little complaining and speculation? Aw, shucks... thanks, all you likers. -- UPDATE 7/2/12 2014? You kidding me? I'm not even super excited for City of Heavenly Fire to come out (Lost Souls left me kind of burned out for the whole second trilogy deal), but... \"Expected publication: March 19, 2014\" ... ... I don't like it. YA series don't work that way, Clare; the next installment is supposed to come out about a year after its predecessor. That way anticipation is heightened and everyone has a chance to catch up with the series, without losing interest because the next book is too far away. Two years... I might grow out of this series by then. Oh, well. Hope the extra time it takes her to write it means that she's working extra hard on it, and putting a bit more effort into it than it felt like she did with the last two Mortal Instruments books. Hopefully it means Heavenly Fire will bring the glory and happiness that City of Glass brought, when this series ended the first time around. -- ORIGINAL REVIEW What's with these long titles? 'Fallen Angels' 'Lost Souls' 'Heavenly Fire'... Ridiculous. They don't have that catchy one syllable ring that the previous books did. What's next? 'City of Eternal Tourment' 'Grave Elements' 'Hell and Damnation'... Good grief, they're starting to sound like horror movies. ...more I'm just praying to God that this is the last one... Words cannot express how amazing this book was! I will be posting a detailed review up on my youtube channel soon :) Read the full review @ A Perfection Called Books With a heavy heart, I write this review. TMI is the series that rekindled my love of reading. I was so invested in this series, and I'm so sad that it's come to a close. But darn, Cassie ended it well. Warning: This book will make you so emotionally unstable. You'll go from angry to remorseful, happy to sad, laughing to crying, and so on. This book was everything I hoped for and more. Me While Reading This Book: The Writing: Cassie Clare never ceases Read the full review @ A Perfection Called Books With a heavy heart, I write this review. TMI is the series that rekindled my love of reading. I was so invested in this series, and I'm so sad that it's come to a close. But darn, Cassie ended it well. Warning: This book will make you so emotionally unstable. You'll go from angry to remorseful, happy to sad, laughing to crying, and so on. This book was everything I hoped for and more. Me While Reading This Book: The Writing: Cassie Clare never ceases to amaze me with her skilled writing. I had no idea how she was going to tie up her all the loose ends and create a satisfying end. Somehow she did it, and better yet, she did it well. I love the deep complex characters, the twisting plots, the humor, the action, the deception, the drama, the wit, and crazy parallels and connections to TID. Her writing is consistent and lovely. The third person POV with switches between characters works really well, and she's really descriptive. I can always picture in my head what's going on in the story. I had no idea what was going to happen in this book. Clare kept me guessing until the end. Everything was just so beautifully written and wonderfully done. She's a writing god!! The Plot: I love how this book wasted no time. Cassie Clare just went right into it! End of Chapter 1 *BAM* they're going to Idris!! Thank god. I thought I was going to have to wait ten chapter for them to return to the homeland. This book was packed full with awesome elements. There was the perfect blend of action, drama, romance, humor, mystery, adventure, and betrayal.There was a great balance between grave, sad moments and light happy moments. This book is a whooping 725 pages yet somehow this book doesn't seem too slow or fast-paced. Everything was timed out well. Every scene was there for a reason, there weren't any dragging and boring moments. I liked how she wrote it so that not everyone got away unscathed by the end. It wasn't a total HEA but still happy! The Characters: I am going to miss all of these characters so so much. These characters have come so far. I'm so proud of them and all they've accomplished and overcome in this series. I love these characters so much, and I can't let them go! The Romance: The romance in this book was so adorable. Clace was perfect Clace. They trust, they confide in, they love. They've finally worked out their relationship problems. Sizzy DTRed!! Yay! I love Sizzy but it annoyed me how they never really talked about their feelings. They keep putting it off or just don't talk about it. Malec was amazing. I've never been really crazy about them, but I totally shipped them in this book. They saw their own flaws and fixed them. They came to terms with things and decided to just be happy and be together! Some Awesome Quotes: -\"Heroes aren't always the ones who win,\" she said. \"They're the ones who lose, sometimes. But they keep fighting, they keep coming back. They don't give up. That's what makes them heroes.\" -\"Shadow hunters are the Angel's weapons. Temper us in fire, and we grow stronger. When we suffer, we survive.\" -\"Because the world isn't divided into the special and the ordinary. Everyone has the potential to be extra ordinary.\" The Deaths: The deaths aren't anywhere near as bad as people claimed them to be. Don't worry you'll survive. You might shed some tears as I did, but trust me, it will all be okay. ^^Karma for some of those deaths The Humor: \"'The guard are there to protect us, not keep us in. Have some perspective.' 'Alec, you've known me for seven years,' said Jace. 'When have I ever had perspective?'\" '''Brother Zachariah,' Isabelle said. 'Months January through December of the Hot Silent Brothers Calendar. What\u2019s he doing here?' 'There\u2019s a Hot Silent Brothers Calendar?' said Alec. 'Do they sell it?'\" \"'You're pining,' said Jace. Alec shrugged. 'Look who's talking. \"oh I love her. Oh, she's my sister. Oh why, why, why\u2014\"'\" The Climax: The Denouement: Jem and Tessa: Ahh I loved reading the parts with Jem and Tessa. Ugh I kept tearing up when I read so many of those TID references. JESSAMINE. Oh god. And there were Will references all over the place. ;( I love how Cassie added Jem and Tessa to the book. Tessa and Jem truly deserve each other. They are such good people and gosh, after everything they've been through they so deserve to be happy. I hope we see a wedding for them sometime in the future. I hope that Tessa tells Jace of their relation and Jem does likewise with Emma. So then they're both not totally alone. AND It's hinted that Jem and Tessa might be in TDA. And they got Church back! :D The Blackthorns and TDA: I am so happy that we got to meet the main cast of The Dark Artifices. I love the Blackthorns family already! In TMI there was the focus surrounding The Crew (Sizzy, Clace, and Alec) but that was about it. It's going to be fun to read of more people in the main cast all together. All of the characters so far seem so realistic and relatable and adorable and sweet and complex! Emma Carstairs is so awesome! She's like a smaller female version of Jace XD And Julian is so adorable and fiercely protective. With the glittering setting of Los Angeles and chock full of great characters, I am SO EXCITED for Lady Midnight, out Fall 2015. The Ending: The ending was truly bittersweet. Not everything in the Shadow World turned out perfectly. There are scars and many mistakes made that might turn into problems later. It was truly \"the saddest happy ending.\" Not everyone came out unscathed. I liked that Cassie Clare didn't make the all-around perfect HEA. In terms of what happened for these characters, I think besides the little hurtful prick/twist they pretty much got their HEAs. After Finishing The Book: It's hard to say goodbye to this series. I love how CoHF ends brightly and optimistically. Cassie Clare lets the reader imagine what the future holds for these characters. In that way, these characters will always still be with us, their story still lives on. I know that I will carry this lovely story in my heart for the rest of my life and although TMI is over, we'll always remember. This series has been a wonderful journey that I will never forget. I find it only fitting that I end my review with a quote from Cassie: \"We are the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who love us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss.\" -Cassandra Clare PRE READING: UPDATE 5/30/14 Finished the book. Crying. Literally crying. Review to come. Below are some gifs and pics that epitomize my feelings and emotions regarding this finale of my most beloved series. UPDATE 5/26/14 IT COMES OUT IN A MERE 10.5 HOURS. TWO YEARS OF WAITING IS NOW ALMOST OVER. :D My plan: Today sleep from 4-9 PM Study for school 9-11PM Read City of Heavenly Fire as it appears on my iPad Stand from 11PM-2AM ^^Heck yeah. UPDATE 4/22/14 only 34 days until CoHF!! asdfghjklasdfghjklasdfghjklasdfghjklllllllll UPDATE 4/11/14 Oh my gosh, less than 50 days until CoHF comes out!! *fangirls* I've been waiting for this for so long... And now the time is almost upon us. Will the shadowhunters be able to defeat Sebastian once and for all? Or will they die trying? UPDATE 1/1/14 CITY OF HEAVENLY FIRE WILL BE 733 GLORIOUS PAGES AND COMES OUT IN LESS THAN FIVE MONTHS :0 ASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKL UPDATE 1/16/14 THE BEAUTIFUL COVER: I. Want. This. Now. My concerns: My reactions: To sum up my emotions: City of Heavenly Fire, I. Am. Ready. ...more Edit (1/17/14): That cover is epic, but I really wish Malec was on it instead! Edit (3/12/13) - I just noticed that it says on the bottom of the placeholder: \"Cover to be revealed when you least expect it\". Original: Cassandra Clare why are you doing this to us? March 19, 2014 is way too far away, this is pure torture. How could she end it on a spectacular cliffhanger then expect us to wait 2 whole years? Clockwork Princess is already out! I hope everything works out between Tessa, Will, and J Edit (1/17/14): That cover is epic, but I really wish Malec was on it instead! Edit (3/12/13) - I just noticed that it says on the bottom of the placeholder: \"Cover to be revealed when you least expect it\". Original: Cassandra Clare why are you doing this to us? March 19, 2014 is way too far away, this is pure torture. How could she end it on a spectacular cliffhanger then expect us to wait 2 whole years? Clockwork Princess is already out! I hope everything works out between Tessa, Will, and Jem. Even though Clockwork Princess is already out, City of Heavenly Fire is still so far away. Cassie Clare give me City of Heavenly Fire because this wait is so cruel! Pretty please? I need to know what happens, I need Magnus and Alec to fix their relationship. I need to find out what happens to Clary, Jace and Simon. I can't wait any longer. If I don't get it soon I might go crazy. ...more I have thoroughly enjoyed 'The Mortal Instruments' series. Here and there, I find myself wanting to break out of my usual romance genre and read a paranormal/fantasy story. This series was a fantastic choice for me! I listened to the Audible version of these books and they were a joy to listen to. The narrators did a wonderful job of drawing me into the story and holding my attention throughout the series. With six books, that's quite the feat. The final book in the series, 'City of Heavenly Fire I have thoroughly enjoyed 'The Mortal Instruments' series. Here and there, I find myself wanting to break out of my usual romance genre and read a paranormal/fantasy story. This series was a fantastic choice for me! I listened to the Audible version of these books and they were a joy to listen to. The narrators did a wonderful job of drawing me into the story and holding my attention throughout the series. With six books, that's quite the feat. The final book in the series, 'City of Heavenly Fire' brings everything full circle. All of my questions were answered and I felt like I had closure. I was left feeling content, which is something I absolutely need with the end of a series. I can't stand to be left hanging, knowing that the answers will never come. That being said, there was definitely a bittersweet feel to some of the twists and turns. While I was glad to see things come to an end, there was some heartache along the way. The fates of Simon, and even dare I say--Sebastian, were tough to swallow. I was surprised by my own reaction to some of the events. One aspect of this book that I really liked was the way the author pulled all the characters together. It was rare to see them all working together vs. breaking off into small groups or pairs. Although everybody wasn't there at all times, my favorite characters were all together for the important action/battle scenes. On that note, let me say that I was very impressed with the authors ability to describe the worlds, battles and creatures throughout the series with such detail. The imagery was brilliant. I could easily visualize everything as if I were right there...down to the slurping sounds the bodies made as they fell to the ground. While I enjoyed the story very much, I'd be lying if I didn't say that I thought it could use some whittling down. At over 700 pages, or 27+ hours of audio, this last book was a mammoth. In fact, the story continued on for over 3 more hours past the point where the \"epic showdown\" had occurred. Things had pretty much been wrapped up, but there were excessive details about the aftermath of the war that just seemed to drag on and on...at least for me. If all of that length was meaningful content that enriched the story, I wouldn't be complaining. However, I thought that much of it could've been eliminated without taking away from the story. I \"zoned out\" a few times while listening and doing housework for minutes at a time, only to \"come to\" later without having ever skipped a beat. So, clearly some of that content wasn't critical to the story. All in all, this was a great conclusion to a fantastic series. It was certainly on the long side, but think of it as getting more bang for your buck! Pretty soon, I think I'll have to check out the prequel/spinoff series that my GR friends have been recommending to get my fix! ...more Omg! Omg! Omg! This freaking book is the best one and my feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllllllsss This is going to be another one of my crazy reviews! I really need to start reviewing in parts so that I can get all of the feels before they wear off! Anyway! OmGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG! Well first let me say when that stupid jerk, Sebastian kills someone I loved I wanted to pulverize him into the ground. HULK SMASH! Of course, I wanted to do this anyway but I digress. I didn't even ta Omg! Omg! Omg! This freaking book is the best one and my feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllllllsss This is going to be another one of my crazy reviews! I really need to start reviewing in parts so that I can get all of the feels before they wear off! Anyway! OmGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG! Well first let me say when that stupid jerk, Sebastian kills someone I loved I wanted to pulverize him into the ground. HULK SMASH! Of course, I wanted to do this anyway but I digress. I didn't even take any notes for this book I was so caught up in STUFF And the stuff was awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!! \u2764 Like holy freaking crow! So I read the first three books in this six book series then I waited a few years. And then I got the Clockwork Angel Trilogy and read those three books. Then came back and re-read the first three books and finished off the last three books. LET ME TELL YOU! I had no idea I was going to be reading about some of the people in the freaking Clockwork Angel Trilogy in here! I about fell over about fifty times and the stars were all shining (well they aren't out yet, but still) and everything just made my heart soar!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love a book that can make me crazy happy BECAUSE <--- that's why I read. Duh, and I like to get excited and happy about books! I am so freaking happy right now with the way this series ended! I will have to read The Clockwork Angel trilogy again sometime, but I'm going to go onto Lady Midnight because --> (another duh moment) I had no idea it was about some peeps from this book! Swoon!!!! And it better be good. \u2665 And to think, I was going to wait a few more weeks to read this book!!! I'm so glad I didn't \u2665 MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more I HAVE SO MANY FEELS I DID IT. I FINISHED THE MORTAL INSTRUMENTS. I STAYED UNTIL THE VERY END. \u201cFreely we serve Because we freely love, as in our will To love or not; in this we stand or fall.\u201d I can't believe I finally finished this series. I am speechless. Completing all of The Mortal Instruments books feels like such an accomplishment. This is the first long-running series, with a total of six books, that I have ever read in my life. As a whole, The Mortal Instruments was a rollercoaster ride. I had a love/hate relati I DID IT. I FINISHED THE MORTAL INSTRUMENTS. I STAYED UNTIL THE VERY END. \u201cFreely we serve Because we freely love, as in our will To love or not; in this we stand or fall.\u201d I can't believe I finally finished this series. I am speechless. Completing all of The Mortal Instruments books feels like such an accomplishment. This is the first long-running series, with a total of six books, that I have ever read in my life. As a whole, The Mortal Instruments was a rollercoaster ride. I had a love/hate relationship with these books and some of its characters. I actually began to lose hope in this series but City of Heavenly Fire redeemed The Mortal Instruments for me. I hated Clary with a burning, fiery passion deep in my heart but she began to grow on me, along with Jace. I AM NOT a Clace fan. Not romantically, not even individually. They are my least favorite characters in The Mortal Instruments, which is fairly ironic because this series revolves around these two characters. But I found myself accepting the both of them in this book. They weren't the typical, annoying characters that they were 95% of the series. They were likable. They finally became the people they should've been from the very beginning. The romance, drama, and angst was kept to a minimum in this book, so thank you Cassandra Clare. Bless your soul. City of Heavenly Fire was every bit as action packed as I had imagined, maybe even more so. But at times, the story felt a bit slow and dragged on. A part of me sort of expected it because any book that's 700+ pages long is bound to feel a bit dragged. Thankfully, I didn't mind it much. I was kept on my toes for the most part and sped through the last 200 pages with a blink of an eye. This book and series ended perfectly with City of Heavenly Fire and I'm glad I persevered until the very last page no matter how irritated I became towards the last half of The Mortal Instruments. A part of me still feels like a chapter of my own life has come to an end because The Mortal Instruments has been a huge part of my reading experience. I'm so happy to have dived into the Shadow World and the Shadowhunter books when I did because now I only have to wait a few more days for the release of Lady Midnight. Thank goodness I won't have to suffer these withdrawals for long. I can't wait to be introduced to a whole new series in the Shadowhunter World. Before, I complained about Cassandra Clare's obsession with dragging this world on but after reading and finishing The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices, I now understand the love that readers have towards Shadowhunters and Cassandra's books. Thank you Cassandra Clare for your wonderful creation. Keep doing what you're doing because you've turned me into a loyal reader and I will read just about anything with your name on the cover. LADY MIDNIGHT, HERE I COME. ...more Finally something good: UPDATE: (THE COVER) <3 JUST POSTED MY BOOKTALK : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ibej6... Spoilers Underwhelming, cliched, and mostly predictable. The characters, the story, and the ending was all rubbish. I wasn't expecting great things from CoHF but I did think I'd get a LOT more than what was delivered. There was no originality, no twists, no satisfying resolutions, there was just NOTHING\u2026 Everything worked out pretty much perfectly for the main characters, it was so bloody cheesy and blah. What's what: Incest-loving-evul-caricature-Sebastian wants to shag his sister and do other ev Spoilers Underwhelming, cliched, and mostly predictable. The characters, the story, and the ending was all rubbish. I wasn't expecting great things from CoHF but I did think I'd get a LOT more than what was delivered. There was no originality, no twists, no satisfying resolutions, there was just NOTHING\u2026 Everything worked out pretty much perfectly for the main characters, it was so bloody cheesy and blah. What's what: Incest-loving-evul-caricature-Sebastian wants to shag his sister and do other evul things. Meanwhile thicko-bland-Clary, supposedly-sexy-looking-but-not-actually-sexy-Jace, and their merry gang of fellow teen angsty-shadowlosers want to put on their big boy/girl knickers and stop shaggy-mcgee-Sebastian and his shaggy plans. All whilst navigating their oh so complicated love lives and finding themselves and shit like that. Random Thoughts: -Most of Clary's thoughts consisted of how sexy Jace was and how hot she was for him. It was pathetic. It was tiresome reading her describe Jace's hair, cheekbones, and eyes every single time she saw him - I mean, who the hell thinks about someone's facial features and the various shades of colours of said facial features whenever they see someone that they're close to?! It was beyond ridiculous. Clary was generally an awful person, she had the chance to kill Sebastian in the last book but she refused because it would mean killing Jace too. So she let crazy-evul Sebastian live and that resulted in him basically killing thousands and starting a war. Clary knew something like that could happen and instead of ridding the world of a monster she let thousands die and suffer just because she was too weak, vile, and selfish to let her boyfriend of a few months die. Ugh, she was no heroine, she was a sick cow and Mary Sue all rolled into a pasty, short, ginger package. -Jace was an extremely dull character, he was seriously the biggest Gary Stu ever\u2026 He was the best young Shadowhunter that ever was, the sexiest, the smartest, the most talented, there was nothing he wasn't good at. He wasn't a complex or realistic character in any way, he was a flat and cliched speshul snowflake. He was basically just a pathetic fangirl fantasy. -Magnus was still as petty and irritating as ever. The way he acted towards Alec was awful, it was cruel how he gave so many mixed messages to an already messed up and confused Alec. He was playing hot and cold with him and giving him false hope, it was a dick move when he knew that Alec was clueless about breakups/relationships in general. Magnus made plenty of mistakes in his centuries old life but when Alec, a teenager in his first ever relationship, made one mistake he flipped the fuck out. Where was his understanding and compassion? He had none, he just liked playing the victim. And when Magnus did deign to give his relationship with Alec another chance, it was only because he was more or less forced to forgive Alec and open up about his past to him. He never wanted to restart their relationship or tell Alec about his past of his own accord, he only did it because he felt backed into a corner. If he really loved Alec as much as he claimed then he wouldn't have kept so many thing from him especially when he could see how insecure and hurt he was by it. In the series overall it seemed like super old and experienced Magnus was allowed to lie, be insensitive, and make mistakes\u2026 Yet inexperienced-in-every-way Alec wasn't able to so the same without being punished. Magnus/Alec were not romantic in any way, Alec deserved a much better guy than him, someone who actually respected and trusted him, and not someone who always had the upper hand and control in all aspects of their relationship. -That bullshit line from Magnus that Alec was his first many things was well, bullshit. Magnus experienced love, sex, heartbreak, adventure, lust, men, women, teenagers, and everything in between. Alec wasn't his first anything. Well, he was his first shadowhunter boyfriend \u2014 that was probably the only reason he was even interested in him because he wanted to cross that of his list of experiences. When Alec dies, he'll be watching out for his next teenage shadowhunter love victim. Ugh. -I felt sorry for Isabelle, she really loved Simon but it was obvious that he was all about Clary, he was still wishing and fantasizing about being with Clary even though he was meant to be over her. Isabelle loved Simon with all her heart and never felt that way about anyone else, she was just second best to him and the main reason he only ever liked her was because of her looks. She really should have dumped Simon instead of settling for him when he'd always love Clary just as much, if not more than her. And no, I didn't buy Simon saying he only loved Clary like a sister. -I didn't like Jocelyn getting a happy ending, she should have died horribly, it was her fault that Sebastian/Jonathan never had a chance of a proper life. If she had protected her son from Valentine, he could have been normal and loved but because she was weak, stupid, and selfish his life was destroyed before it even began and he was born a monster. Jocelyn failed as a mother in the worst possible way yet she got everything at the end. The cow. -Maryse and Amatis were both utterly pathetic. Amatis for refusing to move on from Stephen when he happily divorced her, remarried and had a child with someone else, and was then dead for years\u2026 The loser carried on mooning over him for almost two decades instead of getting on with her own life and trying to find happiness elsewhere. Then there was Maryse who took back Robert after he cheated on her, and was planning on leaving her and their kids for someone else\u2026 Why would she take him back after that?! And then when he finally did leave her she went into a deep freeze and turned cold and emotionless. Ugh, they were both so unbelievably pathetic in not moving on, and wanting men who clearly didn't want them or love them. -I rolled my eyes at all the adult shadowhunters coming up with shitty plans to defeat the bad guys\u2026 Of course, the silly-angsty-teenage-shadowhunters somehow came up with better plans\u2026 And typically the adults didn't listen to them. Heaven forbid, educated and experienced adults handling things better than the usually stupid, whiny, teenage protagonists. -What a cop out that no-one from the main gang died. They all got their perfect sickly sweet HEA. Alec was cool being with immortal and forever young Magnus whilst he aged and died, it would have been so much better if he couldn't handle that and instead decided to break up with him so he could be with someone who would grow old and die with him. Simon stopped being a vampire in a totally deus ex machina way and got to be human again just like he wanted \u2014 oh and then he got to be a shadowhunter and spend forever with his geeky fanboy dream of a hot girlfriend. Jace and Clary were naturally, talking about marriage even though they weren't even eighteen yet, and Jace got a mansion and bling for finally embracing being a Herondale instead of a Wayland-Morgenstern-Lightwood-whatever-wanker. The only ending that was good was Maia's - she fell out of love with Jordan, he died, and she moved on. It was great that she no longer wanted to be with the guy who attacked her and turned her into a wolf. It made a change from the usual female protagonist who stay with the love interests who betray and hurt them in unforgivable ways\u2026 Maia was far more worthy and admirable than Clary. -Emma and Julian's way of communicating with each other by using their fingers to draw letters on the others skin was so copied from My Mad Fat Diary's Rae and Finn (which CC has said she's watched). The whole TMI series is filled with things from other books and tv shows, CC can't seem to think of stuff by herself. -Where were all the strong female friendships? There was loads of focus on male friendships, it seemed like the female characters were only allowed to have good friendships and banter with other male characters. There was barely no scenes where Clary/Isabelle bonded, the couple they did have was spent moaning about guys \u2014 apparently, strong female friendships don't matter. -Ugh, I hated how various spin off shadowhunter series (like the Bane chronicles and the Dark Artifices) were pimped out in this \u2014 it was so cheap and obvious. -I'm pretty sure telling someone they have to 'DTR' ('define their relationship' with their potential partner) wasn't a thing back in 2008. -The shops/places in Alicante/Idris seemed like a crappy copy of Harry Potter/Diagon Alley. All in all, absolute rubbish. I loved TID but this series not so much \u2014 the characters are so unlikeable, the relationships so cheesy, and the story predictable and dragged out. I doubt I'll read any of the future spin off series. ...more Hmm\u2026although I have only read the first three books of TMI, I can't possibly imagine how Cassandra Clare wrote THREE MORE DANG BOOKS!!! Did anyone else think that City of Glass wrapped everything up nicely? I did. With everyone happy. The Downworlders and Shadowhunters forgetting their pasts and mingling. Maryse being okay with Alec and Magnus (that part was so sweet. I smiled whenever they came up.) Clary and Jace together. Simon accepting his sunny-albeit bloody- fate. Happiness for all!!!!! \" Hmm\u2026although I have only read the first three books of TMI, I can't possibly imagine how Cassandra Clare wrote THREE MORE DANG BOOKS!!! Did anyone else think that City of Glass wrapped everything up nicely? I did. With everyone happy. The Downworlders and Shadowhunters forgetting their pasts and mingling. Maryse being okay with Alec and Magnus (that part was so sweet. I smiled whenever they came up.) Clary and Jace together. Simon accepting his sunny-albeit bloody- fate. Happiness for all!!!!! \"No,\" says Cassandra Clare. I guess there are some questions unanswered: Will Simon choose Maia or Isabelle? Will Clary train to become a Shadowhunter? (well, I guess that one's pretty obvious) Will Jocelyn marry Luke? But\u2026with Valentine and Sebastian \"dead\" (ya, I seriously doubt that), the Downworlders and Shadowhunters \"resolving their ancient problems that don't make any sense,\" and Clary and Jace \"finally together,\" what is the plot?! Probably lots of Jace and Clary time. Yay. -__- And I know it's been said before but\u2026.2014?! SERIOUSLY! You can't do that! There's something called LOSING INTEREST and it's probably going to happen to a lot of the people who are totally spazzing out about the wait. We all loyally-or reluctantly-read the five flipping books, at least let us know the ending! Jeez. BUT PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE, COHF, BE AS AWESOME AS CITY OF BONES, CITY OF ASHES AND CITY OF GLASS!!!!!! Please? ...more La verdad no entiendo porque espere tanto tiempo para leer este libro, estoy muy arrepentida de no haberlo le\u00eddo apenas lo tuve en mis manos, este \u00faltimo libro me lleno de tantas alegr\u00edas y emociones como no tienen idea, que hasta llore como una ni\u00f1a cuando lo termine. Este \u00faltimo libro est\u00e1 lleno de acci\u00f3n, felicidad, tristeza, muertes, momentos emotivos, de todo un poco y de verdad estoy muy agradecida a Cassandra Clare por darnos este libro tan espectacular, eso SI para m\u00ed no es el mejor de t La verdad no entiendo porque espere tanto tiempo para leer este libro, estoy muy arrepentida de no haberlo le\u00eddo apenas lo tuve en mis manos, este \u00faltimo libro me lleno de tantas alegr\u00edas y emociones como no tienen idea, que hasta llore como una ni\u00f1a cuando lo termine. Este \u00faltimo libro est\u00e1 lleno de acci\u00f3n, felicidad, tristeza, muertes, momentos emotivos, de todo un poco y de verdad estoy muy agradecida a Cassandra Clare por darnos este libro tan espectacular, eso SI para m\u00ed no es el mejor de todos los libros, pero me gusto y MUCHO. Los personajes nuevos me gustaron mucho, Emma y Julian me encantaron, me cayeron demasiado bien, y estoy emocionada por leer ya \u201cLADY MIDNIGHT\u201d y poder conocer mas a profundidad a estos personajes, de resto los personajes que ya conocemos no tengo que decir nada de ellos porque simplemente los amo, Jace, Alec, Magnus, Clare, Simon, Isabelle, Jocelyn, Luke, Sebastian, estos personajes son mi vida, y la evoluci\u00f3n que tuvieron cada uno de ellos en CoHF es IMPRESIONANTE, muchos pasaron de ser d\u00e9biles, a ser unos personajes BADASS que te dejaban la boca abierta con lo que hac\u00edan, pero si tengo que recalcar es la evoluci\u00f3n en el personaje de Simon Lewis, no pod\u00eda creer y aceptar como creci\u00f3 este personaje, como dejo de ser ese Simon asustado, d\u00e9bil, a ser un personaje sin miedo, y que se sacrificar\u00eda por cualquiera a los que ama, (view spoiler) [ NO PUEDEN IMAGINAR COMO LLORE CUANDO PERDI\u00d3 SUS RECUERDOS, OSEA ESTABA EN UNA FASE DE \u201cNO POR FAVOR SIMON, NO LO HAGAS TE LO PIDO\u201d MIENTRAS LLORABA LITERAL A MOCO SUELTO. (hide spoiler) ] , otra cosa fueron todas esas menciones a Tessa y Will, no saben c\u00f3mo sonre\u00eda de la felicidad en esos momentos. Si tengo que decir que CoHF ten\u00eda sus cuantas p\u00e1ginas de relleno donde tu cre\u00edas que iba a pasar algo y NOP, no pasaba nada, aun recuerdo como Cassie nos asusto con el tema de las muertes, que \u00edbamos a sufrir y la verdad con las muertes que tuvimos solo sufr\u00ed por 1 y creo que muchos ya sabr\u00e1n cual es, llore mucho ese proceso donde Sebasti\u00e1n/Jonathan mor\u00eda, el resto de las muertes realmente fue como OK, QUE PENITA ME DIO POR ELLOS\u2026 SIGAMOS , la trama como tal del libro me gusto y bastante, Cassandra supo c\u00f3mo desarrollar esa ultima guerra, esos acontecimientos que pasaron, supo c\u00f3mo hacer que no pudieras soltar ese libro hasta que ya estuvieras a nada de terminarlo, y DIOS MIO (view spoiler) [ Jace y Clare teniendo sexo en esa cueva, fue como lo dije TAN INCOMODO, pero me encanto jajaja (hide spoiler) ] . De esto solo les puedo decir que para mi COHF fue un grandioso final, y la verdad quede satisfecha de c\u00f3mo Cassie termino esta historia, y quede con tantas ganas de mas que no voy a dudar a leer LM, este libro provoco tantas emociones en mi que no las puedo describir, lagrimas, felicidad, sonrisas, momentos de odio, etc, pero de verdad estoy muy agradecida a Cassandra Clare por darnos este final tan bonito con ese EPILOGO QUE ME HIZO GRITAR Y SALTAR DE LA EMOCI\u00d3N (view spoiler) [ TESSA MI HERMOSA TESSA HABLANDO CON CLARY DE LOS HERONDALE, FUE DEMASIADO PARA MI. Y VERLA CON EL HERMANO ZACHARIAH QUE TODOS SABEMOS SU NOMBRE REALMENTE FUE DEMASIADO PARA MI CORAZ\u00d3N, LLORE DE LA FELICIDAD (hide spoiler) ] , para finalizar les tengo que decir que este libro fue el cierre perfecto para esta incre\u00edble saga de libros que marco tanto mi vida, y me hizo vivir momentos hermosos al momento de leer cada uno de sus libros. GRACIAS POR TODO CASSIE. - Ave atque vale in perpetuum, frater. - ...more Oh, 2014 you say? Way to freaking long. Right now this is me; And, the longer I wait the more I want to do this; Oh, and if Alec and Magnus don't get back together; For those of you who ship Simon/Clary instead of Simon/Izzy; Well, I would really love for Izzy to finally tell Simon how she feels 'cause then I would have to be all like; FINALLY!! Thank you, Jesus. Why are you doing this to me!!! I love Cassandra Clare's books but I'm gonna hate her forever for making me wait this long!! It's bad enough I have to wait about half a year for COLS, now I have to wait more than a year after COLS for COHF!!! This is ABSOLUTELY THE WORST KIND OF TORTURE IN THE WORLD!!!! I should have waited till the end of 2013 then bought COFA, COLS and COHF but I couldn't keep my hands of COFA. And now how am I feeling you ask? Well....TORTURED, SLEEPLESS and I CAN'T KEEP MY M Why are you doing this to me!!! I love Cassandra Clare's books but I'm gonna hate her forever for making me wait this long!! It's bad enough I have to wait about half a year for COLS, now I have to wait more than a year after COLS for COHF!!! This is ABSOLUTELY THE WORST KIND OF TORTURE IN THE WORLD!!!! I should have waited till the end of 2013 then bought COFA, COLS and COHF but I couldn't keep my hands of COFA. And now how am I feeling you ask? Well....TORTURED, SLEEPLESS and I CAN'T KEEP MY MIND OFF COLS AND COHF!!! Ughhhhh! Oh and SUICIDAL. Ok I'm just kidding about feeling suicidal. I can't wait for the books to come out. For me, books are synonymous to oxygen, food and water and all the other things required for life. So.... I will die without books and books are one of the things nessacary for life for me. I know I'm exaggerating the point, but I mean it except maybe the part about dying without books. I hope I find enough books to read until COLS and COHF are released. ...more 2 Wait.. Was that it? Stars Major Spoilers Ahead Okay so let me get this straight I read 6 books in this series, the last book over 700 pages and that was the ending CC gave us readers really? I have to say I am pretty disappointed in the way the whole series played out. The first 3 books were really good but I feel like the last 3 though okay lacked depth of character, and depth of the on going relationships. Maybe it's because there was so many storylines going at once( CC could totally give 2 Wait.. Was that it? Stars Major Spoilers Ahead Okay so let me get this straight I read 6 books in this series, the last book over 700 pages and that was the ending CC gave us readers really? I have to say I am pretty disappointed in the way the whole series played out. The first 3 books were really good but I feel like the last 3 though okay lacked depth of character, and depth of the on going relationships. Maybe it's because there was so many storylines going at once( CC could totally give JR Ward a run for her money when it comes to multiple storylines.) Whatever it was it made me feel like something was missing. For instance we have 3 major relationship going on in this series (Jace and Clary, Simon and Izzy, Alec and Magnus) and like 3 side relationships(Maia and Jordan, Luke and Jocelyn and Maryse and Robert) Now I can understand not getting deep on the side relationships, but I as a reader should feel the love between the major 3 and I didn't. Jace and Clary I did but even their's could have been stronger. Maybe if they had been able to be together more in the books. Simon and Izzy were a total let down. Their relationship consist of a few kisses Izzy acting like a cold bitch for 5 books then towards the end of book 6( which again is over 700 pages) them telling each other they love each other. Really? Then CC goes and takes Simons memories of Izzy and everyone else! God I was pissed! Why? There was already tons of drama in this book. Why would you be so cruel to Simon? I mean you turn him human and wipe his memories of everyone Izzy, Jace, Alec, and Clary. And Simon wasn't the only over the top dramatic thing that happens in this book that left a bad taste in my mouth. Lets talk about Jordan..... Poor Jordan he and Maia dated and were in love back in the day. Then he gets in a fight with a guy (werewolf) gets bit and turns werewolf. Now he doesn't know that was happening and it was causing him to be out of control. He was abusive to Maia and then he bites and turns her. All bad stuff. Okay so when he turns he finds help and trains to become like the person who helped him. Trains to keep other newly turned wolves from going rogue like he did and hurting the ones they love too. So for years he is ate up with guilt and still loves Maia never touches another woman not even a kiss. So when Maia and Jordan got back together (Maia forgave him because she knows when you are first turned you can't control things and have black out rages) I was so happy. Then she started acting cold to him in this book. She started pulling away. Just out of the blue. The last book ended and they were fine. Now she is having trouble forgiving the past and doesn't want to be with him? Then CC kills Jordan! Yup kills him and Maia tells Bat her ex that she was planning to break up with him because she didn't really get over the past. So he died and the woman he loved didn't really love him back. God! And the whole Emma/Jules/ Blackthorn family plot line bored me. I started skipping their part of the book completely. I just didn't care. Why was she trying to start a whole new story plot with a whole new set of characters? Ohhh I know why because she started a spin off series with them. But I don't care. Just sayin'! Maybe if I would have met them in book 1-3 I could have connected but the last book...pfff whatevs! Now lets talk about that epilogue. It felt more like a HFN than a HEA and this is the last book in the series so Where is the wrap up? I got no real closure. No marriages, no babies no future. Just 6 months later and Jace and Clary are together, Simon can't really remember much but kinda remembers a very little thanks to Magnus, and everything is pretty much the same as the last 5 books. WTF there are no more books in this series so why leave things feeling unfinished. I get she is doing spin off series left and right but damn I needed closure! I feel like I just wasted my time and got nothing from it. I was just so disappointed and unsatisfied. I still gave the book 2 stars because there are some good parts and tons of action but overall it could have been so so so much better! ...more Is this the real cover? It's so pretty! *-* Edit: So this is the real cover... It's cool, but I think I like the fan-made one more... I have no idea why I'm going to read this. Perhaps I am a masochist. City of Lost Souls was freaking awful. But I have to know how it ends. And maybe it will magically get better. Also it will probably have a gorgeous cover. And I have no self-control whatsoever. 2014!? THAT'S STUPID! WHY CAN'T I GO TO THE FUTURE AND READ THE BOOK AND COME BACK?! \"We are all the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who loves us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss.\" 5 Heavenly Fire Stars! This is going to be a very emotional review fangirling so please bear with me.... I knew the conclusion of The Mortal Instruments will be beautiful. What I didn't expect was how it's even better than what I've expected. It was epic. The best of all the best. The kind of book that was well-molded from star \"We are all the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who loves us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss.\" 5 Heavenly Fire Stars! This is going to be a very emotional review fangirling so please bear with me.... I knew the conclusion of The Mortal Instruments will be beautiful. What I didn't expect was how it's even better than what I've expected. It was epic. The best of all the best. The kind of book that was well-molded from start to finish, closing the entire series with a huge impact to the heart. DEFINITELY THE PERFECT ENDING AND THE PERFECT SERIES. EVER! To Cassandra Clare , you have no idea how much I cried after finishing this book. With your brilliant writing and exceptional imagination, you simply hooked me. I loved how you created your characters and the Shadowhunter world. The way you designed this fictional world with so much love was so overwhelming. And no matter how dark it was, still, its overall greatness was worthy enough. I could read this series all over again! \"If people have a spark in them, yours is the brightest I know.\" City of Heavenly Fire Cassandra Clare is the longest sequel in this series. All the while, I thought City of Glass was the best book, but in my opinion, City of Heavenly Fire was everything. It was simply satisfying. I loved the carefully constructed plot as well as the series of twist and turns . \"The wishes of our hearts are weapons that can be used against us.\" Some of my favorite scenes in this book: > The real Brother Zachariah - If you have read this book and the TID series, then you will know what I mean. The feels! > Bat and Rufus' fight and Rufus' and Maia's battle - Talk about a phenomenal battle of werewolves! This scene is not to be missed! > The drunk Simon moment - This was the scene where I did laugh like a mad woman. Those funny and corny yet super swoony things that he said to Izzy were my undoing! > Jace and Clary when they were at the cave of Edom - THIS. I've waited for this moment. NUFF SAID. I'll stop now. I couldn't go on anymore without spoiling everyone but let me just tell you that there were so many amazing scenes in this book! \"You were the wrong person for the Jace that I was, but not the Jace that I am now, the Jace you helped make me.\" Now let me express my feelings and opinions toward the beautiful major characters that made up the whole series. Clary - I loved her character development here. Gone was the reckless Clary Fray that we saw in the previous books. The Clary Fray that we see here is braver and wiser and so much careful with her actions and decisions. Jace - He was phenomenal here and his character development was also remarkable. I think it's about time to see a Jace that truly accepts and embraces his own self and not just his demons. Also, he was way sweeter here. This is the guy that I was looking for in previous books and because of that, I couldn't be any happier. Simon - Of all the characters, Simon is my most favorite. He just couldn't stop being awesome! And what happened to him in the final chapters of this book... ugh, it made me feel emotional! Alec - I didn't quite appreciate his character until now. He was way better here! And not just because of his epic action stunts but because in this book, he loved Magnus so fiercely and unselfishly. Like the rest of the characters, he will be hard to forget! Isabelle - Always such a sexy badass character and I couldn't stop admiring her! I have always been a fan of her character since City of Bones. In this book, she became even stronger. And she was always a true friend and a sister. Magnus - This man. This powerful warlock. He's the reason why this entire series kept getting interesting. Life would be dull and boring without him, to be honest. Maia - Who would've thought that this girl will impress me? She simply rocks! She has this hidden fire in her that was unleashed in this book. So surprising! \"Weapons, when they break and are mended, can be stronger at the mended places. Perhaps hearts are the same.\" To say I was amazed by this series' conclusion is an understatement. I was left completely awed and emotional and even starting to miss the characters. :( The good thing is that there's Lady Midnight waiting which I will be reading soon! If you haven't started this series and The Infernal Devices yet, what better time? They're ultimate favorites of mine! I'm going to leave you with my most favorite quote from this book... \"We Shadowhunters, we put ourselves in danger, every hour, every day. I think sometimes we are restless with our hearts the way we are with our lives. When we give them away, we give every piece. And if we do not get what we so desperately need, how do we live?\" ...more DNF at page two-hundred or three-hundred and something A Tale of Summer's Favorite Series of All Time Once upon a time there was a twelve-year-old girl who loved reading. She read anything she could get her hands on - but unlike other girls her age, she refused to read the terribly famous Twilight . No, she was far too good for that. Instead, she devoured The Mortal Instruments series, which she believed was far more well-written, more complex than that worthless Twilight . Fast forward two years la DNF at page two-hundred or three-hundred and something A Tale of Summer's Favorite Series of All Time Once upon a time there was a twelve-year-old girl who loved reading. She read anything she could get her hands on - but unlike other girls her age, she refused to read the terribly famous Twilight . No, she was far too good for that. Instead, she devoured The Mortal Instruments series, which she believed was far more well-written, more complex than that worthless Twilight . Fast forward two years later, and Summer is eagerly waiting for the next installment in the series, City of Lost Souls . The previous one wasn't as good as the others, but she believed that this would be the one. To kill the time, Summer browsed a website she recently discovered: Goodreads. Mind you, she did not make an account, but she did spend a considerable amount of time reading reviews of her Favorite Series of All Time . What she found weren't gushing five-star reviews - they were scathing one-star critiques of her most beloved novels. As she scrolled, she read review after review that went into detail of the novel's major flaws, and some even claimed that - gasp - Cassandra Clare plagiarized in her works! She refused to believe it. Summer's eyes were opened. She didn't realize that so many people disliked her Favorite Series of All Time . Most puzzling was, who could hate the beauty that is Jace?! Of course, she went on with her Clare-obsessed life. But, she was encouraged to read more; instead of reading one book every two weeks, she went through books almost daily. And she began to notice Clare's series is not one in a million - there are plenty of other excellent series out there that receive far less attention than The Mortal Instruments. It is now spring of 2013. Summer decides to conduct an epic re-read of her Favorite Series of All Time after finishing the newly released Clockwork Princess (which she, inevitably, loved). To her astonishment, she found that she did not, in fact, love City of Bones . Perhaps it was a book slump. Perhaps re-reading the novel took away the surprise factor. But, she knew in the back of her mind that she was merely making excuses. She had read Harry Potter plenty of times and not once did she tire of it. Such was Summer's state of indecision until, a year later, the much anticipated finale to her Favorite Series of All Time was released. What she read would shatter her perception of The Mortal Instruments series and end her years as crazy fangirl. ******************************************* Okay, that last sentence was pretty melodramatic, but that is exactly how I felt. Not that I was a huge fan of The Mortal Instruments series before that, but I was still unsure of my opinion. Actually, to this day I'm still unsure of what I think of Clare and the claims of plagiarism. I've done some reading on the topic and while some claims didn't have much evidence to back them up, some seemed pretty plausible. Plus, I've lost a ton of respect for Clare after finding out that the only reason she is extending her series so much is because she wants MOAR money. (I mean, the Bane Chronicles are pretty ridiculous. Get some originality, would you?) Anyways, I won't really go into this entire debacle, because people who have had experience with her will probably know the facts a million times better than I ever would. So. A few weeks ago, I checked out City of Heavenly Fire from the library (thank God I didn't buy that huge-ass book). Right from the start, I was contemplating DNFing the novel. The story was just that bad. First off, Clare, what the hell do you think you're doing? Why are you introducing MORE characters in the sixth and last book of the series? Hell, I can barely keep track of the regular cast of characters, but you had to piss everyone off and include even more people that we have to keep track of? To worsen things and to give me an even bigger headache, we have to read chapters from said new characters' POV too! Seriously, it's ridiculous how many POV changes there are. An embarrassingly obvious observation hit me as I was trudging through CoHF. All the characters are freaking cardboard cutouts. THEY HAVE NO PERSONALITY. Each and every one of them are walking stereotypes that I could not be bothered to give a shit about. You have: - Jace , the token hawt blondy who is the best fighter in the whole world - Clary , the weakling who becomes a badass fighter in the span of a few weeks (AKA the Mary Sue) and who is a freaking martyr (what a brave girl!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1) - Alec , the stereotypical gay friend with no personality other than the fact that he's gay - Isabelle , the hawt badass friend that Clary compares herself to - Sebastian , the evilly villain who isn't all that scary and who is somehow in love with his sister (incest anyone?) (Pshhht, I'm not bothering with the new characters. For one, they aren't even developed, and for another, I'm too lazy to go through each character.) Onto my favorite part of this book, the writing. (view spoiler) [NOT. (hide spoiler) ] How I ever thought Clare's writing is beautiful is beyond me, and how such crappy writing has gotten itself published with 30 books to boot is also beyond me. Really, there are only so many variations of said you can use. And the useless descriptions are useless. No wonder the book is 700 goddamn pages long. Up until the point I read, absolutely nothing made sense. You might be saying right now, \" But Summer! If you had read the entire book, stuff would've made sense! \" On the contrary, even small things didn't make sense. For example, how did Sebastian pop out of nowhere, and why didn't he do it before? But no, he only appeared when it was favorable for the plot. Oh, so there's this magic thing that does this and turns these people but NEVER ACTUALLY HARMS THE MAIN CHARACTERS, conveniently enough. (view spoiler) [Also, what was up with Brother Zachariah? So he just MAGICALLY turns back into Jem, like wtf?? (hide spoiler) ] Never have I seen so much deus ex machina used in a series as much as in Clare's. Now to the romance. I like to call Clare The Matchmaker , mostly because every single character in her books has to have a romantic partner. Rarely will you find anyone single throughout her books. One of the main reasons why I DNFed this was because there was so much emphasis on romance. The world is about to end, why do you care about making out with your blond-haired-perfect-cheekboned boyfriend? (Yes, I'm calling you out, Clary and Jace.) And in every single POV, someone was brooding about their relationship problems, while I was pulling my hair out from frustration. Still not sure why I picked this up in the first place. Maybe I just wanted some redemption for Clare, because I really loved The Infernal Devices series. I guess that was the best she had, so I highly doubt I'll be reading any of her future books. Not that I'd ever want to support someone like her .[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more \u00abWe are all the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who love us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss.\u00bb I am at a loss for words. Thank you Cassandra Clare for this book. And for this series. They're not just books to me. They are a part of me. That might sound a little bit exaggerating but how else can I describe something that made me change my life perception? This series had love; between friends, siblings, and lovers. And thes \u00abWe are all the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who love us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss.\u00bb I am at a loss for words. Thank you Cassandra Clare for this book. And for this series. They're not just books to me. They are a part of me. That might sound a little bit exaggerating but how else can I describe something that made me change my life perception? This series had love; between friends, siblings, and lovers. And these are things we all deserve to have in our life. This series isn't just books about how you meet, fall in love with the perfect person and then get married and make babies. They are books of heartbreak and fear and angst and loss. I've bonded with all the characters so much that I feel like I personally know them. After all, I'm a little bit of Clary and Jace since I'm both brave and fearless when it comes to protecting those I love and maybe I'm a little bit of Simon because I love being a geek and perhaps I have some Isabelle in me, being all tough and strong but deep down I might get afraid of things I don't understand from time to time. I'm a little bit of Alec and Magnus, embracing the different and not being afraid to love even if it means that sometimes it might get me hurt. And even I can dare say that I'm a little bit of Jocelyn and Luke for always being worried for those I love but I always remain loyal and stand by my beliefs. Such a wonderful way to bring a book series to and end. All of them being together. Because they are a part of each other and we, the readers, have grown to feel like they are a part of us. I couldn't be more pleased witht he way things ended. Couldn't be more pleased with how things played out in the last book of TMI. I can't help but feel grateful to Mrs. Clare for giving us the chance to get read such amazing books, such amazing stories and adventures. This book was certainly the longest and maybe the best because it is a very nice conclusion and I'll say that the waiting was worth it all. 2 years, she took her time with it. She's not one of those authors to be hasty and write something that can ever disappoint her readers. I'm so, so excited that the world of Shadowhunters hasn't come to its end. I'm so glad that she's decided to do 3 more Shadowhunter series. Well, that's just awesome for people like me who are huge fans of her work. \u00abFreely we serve, Because we freely love, as in our will, To love or not; in this we stand or fall.\u00bb ...more CASSANDRA NO PUEDO VIVIR SIN JACE. DAME M\u00c1S. (Rese\u00f1a en el canal en enero \u2665) THIS BOOK DESTROYED ME. Tears were definitely shed, from sadness and happiness both. Perfection. WATCH MY BOOK TALK HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=As8mip...", "Title": "City of Heavenly Fire"},
