{"Comments": "\u201cThere's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas.\u201d I read this book for the same reason most people read this book: I am an introvert. I have always been an introvert,<---M> and it's a fundamental</---M>, sometimes limiting, part of who I am. I've learned to deal with it better over the years - learned to clasp my shaking hands together during presentations, force myself to breathe normally and keep my voice steady, even force myself to make the first move in social situatio \u201cThere's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas.\u201d I read this book for the same reason most people read this book: I am an introvert. I have always been an introvert, and it's a fundamental, sometimes limiting, part of who I am. I've learned to deal with it better over the years - learned to clasp my shaking hands together during presentations, force myself to breathe normally and keep my voice steady, even force myself to make the first move in social situations. Unless you are also an introvert, you probably won't understand the efforts I have to go to (<---B>and the psychological strain this puts on me</---B>) just to behave in a way that is considered socially acceptable and is desired by employers. It's actually caused me upset and distress for many reasons. Firstly because I find it hard to cope in the many situations where bright, outgoing personalities thrive. Secondly because it's just considered a negative trait. Look at magazines, look at books like How to Win Friends and Influence People , look at job applications asking for \"people persons\". I remember reading teen magazines in high school and seeing stupid articles about how to attract boys - confident, dazzling personalities are a necessity! - and feeling a very real blow to my self-esteem. But I have accepted it as an unfortunate fact of reality for years - the simple conclusion that being introverted is a bad thing. Not a terrible thing, and definitely not an impossible thing to cope with - technology billionaires are often introverts after all - but something limiting (like a lower intelligence) that I must constantly battle against to make it through this world.<---F> Until I read this book</---F>. <---A>Susan Cain</---A> uses facts, statistics and her own case studies to show that introverts are greatly successful and powerful, not in spite of their introversion, but because of it. She compares different types of businesses and teamwork to show how extroverts and introverts each excel in different types of business environments. For example, extroverts often lead businesses better when there is little input from other team members; whereas introverts thrive in situations that rely on the input of a team because they are more likely to listen to the other members and implement their ideas. From Harvard Business School students to Ivy League professors to Rosa Parks, Cain looks at the different types of influence introverts and extroverts have. She does not place favour on one or the other, but instead portrays a view of the world in which both have an extremely important part to play - it just so happens that the extroverts tend to be \"louder\" about it. It's an important, engaging book that pulled along even a lover of fiction and fantasy like me. And, though comforting, it is still a respectable study that achieves more than just making introverts feel a little better about themselves. The findings speak for themselves and not only serve to please a shy little weirdo like me, but also make a lot of sense. An important read for introverts and extroverts alike. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more I always thought I was just weird... I can be alone in my car for a 1h drive and not want to have the radio or music on. On sundays I often join the walking club for a long 25km walk, but I prefer to do it alone (and oh, all the pity looks you get!). The idea of surprise parties makes me sick to my stomach, and any event where a thousand people are together is possibly even worse. I dislike small talk, but I probably hate even more how nervous I get when I have to do it. I can feel sad for a brui I always thought I was just weird... I can be alone in my car for a 1h drive and not want to have the radio or music on. On sundays I often join the walking club for a long 25km walk, but I prefer to do it alone (and oh, all the pity looks you get!). The idea of surprise parties makes me sick to my stomach, and any event where a thousand people are together is possibly even worse. I dislike small talk, but I probably hate even more how nervous I get when I have to do it. I can feel sad for a bruised tomato no-one wants to buy (hey, he tried his best too, not his fault someone dropped him!), and while everyone else goes to the modern, light apothecary across the street with the super nice people always happy to help, I go to the dark and older one who never has clients (how else will he survive?) Turns out I'm not that weird. I'm just a full blood introvert. And yet, I'm not what you think. I'm not particularly shy, I'm not the grey bird that never says a word and everyone forgets she's around. I'm very opinionated and quite stubborn, and when amongst friends I know well, I can be the loudest person in the room. But still I'm introvert. After being with friends or colleagues, I need recharging time. I need to be alone. I (almost) always think before I talk. I enjoy getting to the bottom of things, I enjoy detective work. And I can go on and on. While reading this book, on occasion I was nodding so hard I thought my head might fall off. There were very little eye-opening surprises in this book, and even a few things I didn't agree with or I would have hoped for her to explore more. Even a few occasions I thought she was idealizing introverts. This book was not perfect, but somehow i feel that it was important for me to read it. Overall, it was quite liberating. I'm not that weird! About a third of us on this planet (and on a website as Goodreads probably a LOT more) are more or less like me - not completely like me, I'm still unique (I insist!) But that might not be an issue. Though some of you might recognize some of my examples above, I've never met someone before that can feel bad for a bruised tomato. So maybe i'm still little weird, and my own unique self. Hoorah ...more March 6th was Super Tuesday and I live in that Oh-so-much-talked-about-battle-ground-state of Ohio. I work the elections as a Ballot Judge, which means I hand out the ballots to the voters and give them instructions. I get to talk and talk, for 13 hours straight *sigh*. I try to make it entertaining for the voters, myself and the others I work with because of its repetition, but by 7:30 pm when the polls close I don\u2019t think the language I was using was English. My spiel went something like this\u2026\u2026 March 6th was Super Tuesday and I live in that Oh-so-much-talked-about-battle-ground-state of Ohio. I work the elections as a Ballot Judge, which means I hand out the ballots to the voters and give them instructions. I get to talk and talk, for 13 hours straight *sigh*. I try to make it entertaining for the voters, myself and the others I work with because of its repetition, but by 7:30 pm when the polls close I don\u2019t think the language I was using was English. My spiel went something like this\u2026\u2026. Me: \u201cHi. What ballot can I get for you today?\u201d Voter: \u201cUh\u2026\u2026.what do you mean?\u201d Me: \u201cToday we have, Democratic, Republican, Libertarian or Green (I have never given out the last two)\u201d. Voter: \u201cWhat\u2019s a Green party?\u201d Me: \u201cI\u2019m not sure, but there is next to nothing on their ballot.\u201d Voter: \u201cI\u2019m and independent (code for embarrassed Republican) can\u2019t I have both a Democratic AND Republican ballot?\u201d Me: \u201cNo, you must declare one and you will be that party until the next primary. Ohio is a closed primary state.\u201d Voter: \u201cUh\u2026.then give me a *whispers* a Democrat one.\u201d Me: *loudly* \u201cDemocratic it is! Take all this to a table and vote, when you are done bring everything back to Rosemary in the red sweater by that machine. Make sure to tear off the stub on the bottom of the ballot\u2026\u2026.the one that is marked \u201cdo not detach\u201d when you come up to the machine. If you don\u2019t, you will make Rosemary angry (a very sweet and very old woman) and you won\u2019t like her when she\u2019s angry. She will cover you in I Voted stickers.\u201d This resulted in lots of chuckles, but I did it 301 times. I was drained. I slept for 12 hours that night. Twelve. Grant it, I got up at stupid O \u2018clock to get to the polls by 6 am and maybe had 4 hours of sleep, but I was just a shell my former self. I am an introvert. Introverts and extroverts are most easily determined by how their energy is drained and how it is refreshed. Extroverts are drained when they have spent too much time alone, and the opposite is true for introverts. So for me, my life force was gone. In the United States our culture is biased towards the extrovert. We are about the loudness, the out there, the utter insanity if you will. In school \u201cpoor Johnny is so quiet, he needs to come out of his shell.\u201d I want to scream \u201cLeave him alone\u2026..he\u2019s FINE, he likes his shell!\u201d School rooms now do this Pod thing where they pull four desks together and make these poor kids work as a team. WTF? No way would have that \u201cconcept\u201d worked for me and it\u2019s not working for introverted kids. \u201cThere\u2019s no I in team\u201d and that is a damn dirty shame. I haven\u2019t worked in an office setting in years, so when I read in this book that office places are arranging offices areas with an open concept, everybody face to face with no walls. Workers going about their day, shooting the shit, getting ideas\u2026\u2026brainstorming (which doesn't work). Who in the hell thought that one up? What a nightmare. What if I only tolerate a certain co-worker\u2026\u2026now I have to stare at his annoying face all day, every day? How is anything ever accomplished? Companies are beginning to realize this mistake and are changing things up. Google (I think it was them) designed their offices with food, bathrooms and the like all in the center, like a town center, with offices around the edges. It is designed for casual meetings where ideas everyone figured out in their quiet offices are shared and expanded. Introverts are a third to half of the population. Many of these don\u2019t even know they are introverted, because of the push to be extroverted has made them fool themselves into thinking they were extroverts. Another interesting thing I learned from this book is that extroverts are motivated by rewards. They work toward things, and take risks if need be to get to the goal of getting that reward. Extroverts are soooo happy when they get the reward. Introverts are motivated by fear. So they do things more cautiously, careful not to mess things up in the process of getting to a goal. That sounds like me. It\u2019s doesn't sound cool that I am afraid to F things up, but I am. This book is interesting, whether you are an I or an E. Because if you\u2019re not an introvert, odds are you know and love one. Also posted at Shelfinflicted ...more In a twist that will surprise precisely no one, this book spends a fair amount of time cheering for introverts. What were the odds, right? I assume if you're picking this book up you're on board with that to a certain extent, and likely something of an introvert yourself. This book is certainly for you-or for the perplexed extrovert or \"pseudo-extrovert\" that might be confused by your supposedly mysterious ways. It's a sort of shield, a blockade, a set of reinforced walls that Cain feels it is n In a twist that will surprise precisely no one, this book spends a fair amount of time cheering for introverts. What were the odds, right? I assume if you're picking this book up you're on board with that to a certain extent, and likely something of an introvert yourself. This book is certainly for you-or for the perplexed extrovert or \"pseudo-extrovert\" that might be confused by your supposedly mysterious ways. It's a sort of shield, a blockade, a set of reinforced walls that Cain feels it is necessary to throw up around introverts (particularly American introverts) to protect them from the \"Extrovered Ideal,\" of American socialization. The tone of the beginning of the book is thus rather defiant, like Cain is screaming back at everyone she has ever felt pressured by to go to a happy hour or to a dinner party when she had much rather just read a book instead. There's some of this kick-back throughout the book, with plenty of cathartic/sympathetic/rather relatable war stories from introverts just tryin' to make it in an extrovert's world. It is particularly meant to speak to introverts in the high flying business, legal, and/or educational world, where a premium is put on socializing, teamwork, constant connection and multitasking (I am speaking here particularly of the rarefied worlds of Big Law, Wall Street Finance, and Ivy League academia). It's a very career and work focused book, with a surprisingly frequent focus on the bottom line about what traits introverts are more likely to have and how these should be recognized at the top tables in all fields. Her argument, based on one scientific study after another throughout the chapters (deployed like so much artillery), is that introverts tend to think more deeply about problems and persist for longer in trying to solve them. Introverts are supposedly more likely to care about the feelings of others, to make excellent compromising leaders, and to be excellent negotiators (Cain's particular area of expertise) based on their ability to seem soft and actually be tough at the same time. She scorns the merely \"shy\" as extroverts in disguise who share extroverts' traits and want the spotlight but who are just too scared to get it (she would never say this outright, but it is clear that she believes they don't deserve the secret introvert password and is determined to keep out the riffraff). She argues that the extroverts in powerful positions she has seen are more likely to take unjustified risks, to get hopped up on testosterone and the thrill of the chase, to listen to the loudest person in the room, and to walk all over introverts. She readily admits the nuances in these sweeping generalizations. She also admits the worth of extroverts and how introverts greatly enjoy and need their company, both professionally and personally. In addition, she also talks about some legitimate times when introverts may devote time and energy to being extroverted (if they care about something enough- \"Free Trait Theory\"). Finally, and in the part that I most appreciated, Cain talks a bit about the \"Situational\" theory of personality- that is, that people's personalities can be completely different in different situations, times and around different people. Therefore, there are very few \"pure\" introverts or \"pure\" extroverts. She also admits that the way that these generalized \"traits\" play out may look very different and may, after all, not be very predictive in any direct way. (Many extroverts may have excellent impulse control, or introverts who care deeply about a cause may act frequently and completely out of character in order to fight for what they believe in.) However, the space devoted to these arguments is much, much smaller than the space devoted to proving, endlessly, how awesome introverts are and why the professional world should value them and stop trying to tell them that they have to be like extroverts because I'm okay and you're okay and it takes all kinds and a village to make the world go round. And honestly? This is a message that's happening to hit me at the right time, when I'm involved in a workplace with a whole lot of extroverts surrounding me. I did find it useful in my particular mindset where I am actively waging a struggle to define my own style in a new profession, since introversion is a part of my identity. I also thought that some of the studies she cited DO make a lot of sense and should be more widely looked at (like the ones that talk about why it's a good idea to ask people to provide feedback and brainstorm online rather than in big meetings or why introverts with closed door offices are more productive or some of the advice to parents about how to cherish their introverted child). I also think that it's nice to have someone sounding the alert that someone speaking quietly is not wrong by default- turn on cable news for thirty seconds and you'll be reminded why that is important. And yet, despite the evident time put into this book, and despite my bias towards it, I couldn't shake the feeling of cynical questioning of what felt like a great deal of pop psychology and arguments made based on feelings, anecdotes and newspaper clippings collected into a narrative. It felt like a file you might keep to make yourself feel better and to express an important part of your identity, rather than a research paper and I'm sure it was aiming at something closer to that crossed with an advice column. There's such a lot of speculation in here, and lots of scientific studies without citations or countervailing evidence brought into play. (For example, it certainly didn't help that the minute after I read one of the more fluffy scientific studies in here about how we Americans as a culture are more drawn to people that display significantly more traditionally dominant body language in pictures I saw it in an issue of Marie Claire in a box near the back of the magazine reconfigured to be about women being attracted to men and how you've gotta look aggressive and Manly to get us ladiezz don't you know?) It just seems like a book written for a specific audience that you can rely on to make that leap to \"just know\" what you mean because they've got an emotional bank of misunderstood years and moments to draw on. In short, it appeals to an \"emotional truth\" built on hundreds of pages of stories and studies that may or may not add up to anything at all. On the one hand, it's maybe okay to create a space for a \"community\" of sorts to feel and process some of that- on the other hand, it will drag down the overall quality of that work into something closer to a melancholy history crossed with a dinner party argument. Therefore, despite its strengths, and despite the personal enjoyment and help that I have taken from the book at this particular time, I can't rate it as more than an above average read. An intellectualized comfort read for introverted professionals, really, if such a specialized category really exists. I can't rate it higher when I feel like one good scholarly journal review would take the whole theory down, especially when it feels like an argument for corporations to pay introverts more a lot of the time. Nonetheless, a lot of interesting questions asked, a lot of self-reflection inspired. Recommended for my fellow introverts if you're at a place where you feel like something like I described above might be helpful to you at this time. Otherwise, I'd say you could skip it or just watch her TED talk instead. ...more What an affirmation! While listening to this book, I was constantly reminded of Al Franken\u2019s Saturday Night Live character, Stuart Smalley, and his mantra, \u201cI\u2019m good enough, I\u2019m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me.\u201d Well, those who understand me do. Full disclosure, according to the Myers-Briggs Personality Test, I\u2019m an ISFJ . There were so many points of affirmation for me\u2014things I intuitively knew. Things I\u2019ve tried to share with others mostly to no avail. This book supplies all the dat What an affirmation! While listening to this book, I was constantly reminded of Al Franken\u2019s Saturday Night Live character, Stuart Smalley, and his mantra, \u201cI\u2019m good enough, I\u2019m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me.\u201d Well, those who understand me do. Full disclosure, according to the Myers-Briggs Personality Test, I\u2019m an ISFJ . There were so many points of affirmation for me\u2014things I intuitively knew. Things I\u2019ve tried to share with others mostly to no avail. This book supplies all the data I need to support my case. Unfortunately, I don\u2019t think the people who need to read/listen this book (extroverts) will. The book is not an \u201cintroverts are superior\u201d diatribe but rather an explanation of how we can leverage personality types most effectively. There is no right or best personality type but like life in general, we need to understand each other for more harmonious relationships. Whether these relationships are family, work, or social, applications of understanding are documented throughout the book. There was one example in the book that hit particularly close to home. Although SAT or IQ scores do not support it, people who talk more are perceived as leaders. And, which personality type talks more? Extroverts. Now, assume that both extroverts and introverts have an equal amount of good ideas. Who is going to get their way more? Extroverts. This could be dangerous because they\u2019re going to get their way more meaning that many of their bad ideas are also going to be implemented. Oh, another thing I intuitively knew but now have support for is brainstorming sessions. Studies show the larger the number of people involved in a session, the less effective they are. A 9-member group is less effective than a 6-member group which is less than effective than a 4-member group which is less effective than a 2-member group. The suggestion is to conduct brainstorming sessions electronically. Collect comments and then share them anonymously and build from there. One of the reasons is that most introverts are better writers than speakers. Other examples from the business world give tips for how both introverted and extroverted leaders can best work with their subordinates of each type. Take advantage of each of their strengths. Such as how studies show that introverts \u201cinspect\u201d and extroverts \u201creact\u201d. Neither adjective should be taken as derogatory but instead as strengths. Allow introverts time to examine and solve. Studies show they are more persistent trying to solve unsolvable problems. The famous introvert, Albert Einstein said, \u201cIt is not that I\u2019m so smart, it\u2019s just that I stay with problems longer. \u201d My hero. A final word on the narration\u2014fantastic. If you have the opportunity to listen rather than read this book, I would strongly recommend going with the audio format. Kathe Mazur does a perfect narration in a \u201cQuiet\u201d , calm, soothing voice. Very appropriate \u201cin a noisy world that can\u2019t stop talking\u201d . ...more This book, which I had had recommended to me by many friends both on Goodreads and in real life, says plenty of useful and worthwhile things. Using the words not quite in the sense common among academic psychologists, Susan Cain distinguishes between \"extroverts\", whom she characterizes as loud, thick-skinned people who prioritise social interaction, assertiveness and gregariousness, and \"introverts\", quiet, thin-skinned people who prioritise sensitivity, harmony and understanding. She points ou This book, which I had had recommended to me by many friends both on Goodreads and in real life, says plenty of useful and worthwhile things. Using the words not quite in the sense common among academic psychologists, Susan Cain distinguishes between \"extroverts\", whom she characterizes as loud, thick-skinned people who prioritise social interaction, assertiveness and gregariousness, and \"introverts\", quiet, thin-skinned people who prioritise sensitivity, harmony and understanding. She points out that a third to a half of all people are introverts; though many of them have learned how to masquerade successfully as extroverts, since American society encourages extrovert behavior to the point where many introverts feel there is something wrong with them. Why do they prefer to sit and read a book when they could be out making useful business contacts? Cain give reasons to believe that the difference between introversion and extroversion may well be related to underlying brain physiology, and hence beyond the individual's control. But more importantly, she argues that there is absolutely nothing wrong with being introverted. Society needs sensitive, risk-shy introverts just as much as it needs brash, risk-tolerant extroverts. In fact, it may need them more. I find most of the above plausible, though I don't know enough about neurophysiology to be able to say how solid those parts are. What disquiets me most is that the book needed to be written in the first place. It seems to me to say more about modern American society than it does about the differences between introverts and extroverts. As Cain says, many societies - she particularly singles out Asian societies - do not place the same premium on extroverted behavior. If you're an Asian teen, it's regarded as normal to spend your time studying rather than partying. The same is true, though to a lesser extent, of many European societies. Cain's approach is gentle and indirect, but she certainly succeeds in showing how grotesquely skewed the US has become. When a member of an evangelical church says he is only interested in recruiting extroverted people and adds that he's sure Jesus was extroverted, I can't help feeling that something has gone horribly wrong. Even more memorably and presciently (the book was published in 2012), Cain asks at one point how America could have got the idea that the ideal personality type is that of a successful real estate salesman. How indeed? ...more <+++>Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking</+++> is about being an introvert in today's society. Confession time: I'm a tremendous introvert. I know you're all thinking something along the lines of \"What? A guy who reads constantly and writes over a hundred book reviews a year is an introvert?\" Shocking but true. I could easily go days without human contact. At parties, I'm the guy hanging out near the food or snooping through the host's books or medicine cabinet. I could go into <+++>Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking</+++> is about being an introvert in today's society. Confession time: I'm a tremendous introvert. I know you're all thinking something along the lines of \"What? A guy who reads constantly and writes over a hundred book reviews a year is an introvert?\" Shocking but true. I could easily go days without human contact. At parties, I'm the guy hanging out near the food or snooping through the host's books or medicine cabinet. I could go into more detail but since I have a feeling most Goodreaders are also introverts, I'll skip it. Basically, the book is a flashing neon sign that says it's okay to be an introvert. Susan Cain chronicles her own struggles as an introvert, as well as showing how America went from being about character to about personality, right around the time movies and TV started getting popular. It covers introverts in all areas, like corporate America, and how introverts are treated in other societies. There's a lengthy section on raising introvert kids, which a lot of parents could use instead of shoving their kids into the shark-infested extrovert waters. Honestly, I could have used this book as a teenager, when people were constantly badgering me to go out more. Scientific discoveries and works of art are rarely made by people who are constantly talking. Cain covers topics like being an introvert in the business world, where people who talk the loudest get their way more often than not, something I see every day in cubeland. Actually, the book gave me insight into the behavior of some of my family. Until he retired, my dad was crabbier than Red Foreman all the time. I used to think he was just an angry asshole but now I think he was an introvert with nowhere to unwind. Now that he's retired, I see how much alike we are. He's actually pretty friendly as long as the visits don't go too long. Susan Cain's writing style is engaging. I felt the repeated examples may have padded the book a bit. While I felt validated by reading it, sometimes it felt like a book a kid named Matthew, who happened to be missing a finger, wrote about how nine-fingered Matthews are the best at everything. I liked it but most of what Cain says seemed pretty obvious. There are no mind-blowing revelations for introverts within. I do recommend extroverts read it, however. 3.5 out of 5 stars. ...more You can also read this review on Flying Kick-a-pow! Reviews This is a bit different from what I typically read and review. I don't often read non-fiction, but when my mom got this out of the library and I read the inside flap, I knew I would have to give it a shot. It sounded like something I could relate to and possibly benefit from \u2026 and it was. As soon as I started it, I was totally engrossed. And as I made my way through the entire thing, I felt like I was learning more and more about myself. You can also read this review on Flying Kick-a-pow! Reviews This is a bit different from what I typically read and review. I don't often read non-fiction, but when my mom got this out of the library and I read the inside flap, I knew I would have to give it a shot. It sounded like something I could relate to and possibly benefit from \u2026 and it was. As soon as I started it, I was totally engrossed. And as I made my way through the entire thing, I felt like I was learning more and more about myself. My whole life I've been an introvert. I keep to myself more than the people around me do. I tend to prefer reading/writing to partying. I'm very self-conscious about speaking; when I talk in front of a bunch of unfamiliar people, I stumble over my words and blush and feel like a moron \u2026 hence, I usually opt not to speak at all unless someone forces me to and/or speaks to me first. I've grown used to labels like \"shy\" and \"quiet,\" to the rude questions like \"Can you talk?\", \"Do you speak English?\", and \"Have you been in this class the whole year?\" The confrontations and notes from teachers/professors are expected by now. \"You need to speak up more in class,\" \"Don't be shy!\" etc. Just thinking about it right now makes me want to punch a wall. People act as if it's some magical switch I can turn on and off. They think I don't talk much because I'm incompetent, because I'm lazy, because I'm a bitch, because I think I'm better than everyone else. People who know me well can see I'm none of those things (at least, I hope I'm not), but for a lot of people it seems to be a challenge to understand that. It's not that I blame them, because I think it's hard to comprehend what it's like to be an introvert if you haven't experienced it yourself. But still, it's frustrating. What makes being an introvert so hard is that\u2013\u2013especially in the US\u2013\u2013we are held up to what Susan Cain calls the \"Extrovert Ideal.\" That is, we are told our whole lives that the \"ideal\" person is an extrovert\u2013\u2013outgoing, confident, well-spoken, etc. Extroverted people are thought of as being more important, more authoritative, and more attractive. If you are a shy, you are more likely to be seen as weak, a pushover, a bad leader, an awkward/unattractive person. We're constantly told that in order to succeed, we need to stand up for ourselves, push others out of the way, be the loudest, take the most risks. If you're a shy/introverted person, you are constantly told that you need to change\u2013\u2013that if you continue to be quiet, you're never going to get anywhere in life. You won't get a good job, you won't succeed, no one will want to date you ... you name it. Needless to say, I hate being shy. I'm tired of always being told that I need to speak up more, that I just have to be more confident. It's like, do you think I want to be this way? Do you think I enjoy not being able to say what I want to say, that I feel totally idiotic every time I open my mouth, that I don't even want people to look at me because I'm so self-conscious? Trust me, if I could, I would be more confident. If I could just shut off all the thoughts in my head, I would gladly speak up more often. But I've always felt like my brain just wasn't wired that way. People act as if it's as easy as just speaking up, that the leap from being introverted to being extraverted is as easy as, \"You know what? I'm just not going to be shy today! Yay!\" And \u2026 yeah. It's not like that at all. It's like, when I'm surrounded by people I don't (or only barely) know, I just go on lockdown. My mind doesn't generate things to say. My mouth refuses to open. I just completely freeze up. And it's not that I don't want to participate in the conversation. I wish talking was easy for me. I do want to contribute. Yet, there's this voice in my head telling me to not say anything, and to just sit back and observe. So, obviously, this is a very frustrating trait to have. It holds me back in a lot of social situations. I have trouble making friends (although I do have friends, so don't worry). I've managed to live for two decades without ever having a boyfriend. My grades have suffered. So on and so forth. I've struggled with this my whole life, I constantly beat myself up about it \u2026 I've always wondered what the hell was wrong with me. Why couldn't I just magically gain some confidence? Why couldn't I just suck it up and be a more social person? I've spent my whole life trying to find something to blame, some reason why I've always been like this. Is it because I'm part of a large family, and therefore I've always felt like I should just keep my problems to myself? Is it because I grew up in such an academically competitive town where there was too much pressure to be the star student? Of course, there must be various contributing factors. But according to Cain's book, it may be due more to nature than to nurture than we may think. Cain discusses several studies that relate introversion/extroversion to sensitivity. And apparently, people with more active amygdalae\u2013\u2013a part of the brain that plays a significant role in processing memory and emotional reactions\u2013\u2013are far more likely to be introverts. People fall roughly into two groups: \"high reactive\" and \"low reactive.\" If you are a more high reactive individual, you are more likely to: - React more strongly to stimuli\u2013\u2013new sounds, meeting new people, seeing disturbing images, etc. - Be more empathetic towards other people - Be very observational, notice small details - React more emotionally to artwork/music/books/etc. - Be more prone to emotional problems like anxiety/depression - Be very sensitive about what other people think of you, and therefore become timid in social situations where you don't know many people This isn't to say, of course, that more low reactive people don't experience these things, it's just that it tends to happen on a lower scale for them because their amygdalae are not as sensitive. Also, high reactive does not automatically equal introverted and low reactive doesn't automatically equal extroverted, but research suggests a strong correlation between the two traits. But what's most important to realize about levels of reactivity is that they can't be controlled . Cain discusses one study in which infants were tested for how reactive they were to stimuli\u2013\u2013and a majority of high-reactive infants grew up to be introverts, while the low-reactive infants tended to grow up to be extroverts. It's studies such as these that suggest we don't choose introversion or extroversion; they are built into our DNA. One can easily fake one or the other. That is, you can be an introvert and still speak a lot and socialize frequently\u2013\u2013it's just that, as an introvert, you will be more drained by social interaction. Because introverts are often more high-reactive individuals and therefore react more strongly to stimuli, a room of new faces is much more exhausting to process than it would be for someone who is more low-reactive. I could go on and on about this, but of course\u2013\u2013if you want to learn more, I highly suggest reading this book. There's a lot of fascinating information about the subject. Quiet seriously changed the way I think about myself. I still dislike being shy and introverted for many reasons. But after reading this, I also know that I might not have the same creative and observant traits that I have now, if I were extroverted instead. And more importantly, I know that it isn't my fault for being this way\u2013\u2013and that millions of people face the same struggle that I do. I don't know if I can say that I really accept who I am, at least not yet. But at least I feel like I understand it a lot better. Over all, I think this book is well-written and well-researched, and Cain narrates it with heart and humor\u2013\u2013drawing from her own experience as an introvert alongside her studies of the subject. I thought Quiet was brilliant, and I recommend it to introverts and extroverts alike. ~ Flying Kick-a-pow! Reviews ~ ...more Thank you, Susan Cain, for writing this remarkable book! As an introvert who has always been regarded as not only quiet, but also timid and weak, this book is very refreshing. It puts into words what many introverts know intuitively; strength does not have to be loud, in your face, or aggressive. Strength and conviction can present themselves quietly without sacrificing effectiveness. Through impressive research, Ms. Cain clearly demonstrates the importance of both personality types and the valu Thank you, Susan Cain, for writing this remarkable book! As an introvert who has always been regarded as not only quiet, but also timid and weak, this book is very refreshing. It puts into words what many introverts know intuitively; strength does not have to be loud, in your face, or aggressive. Strength and conviction can present themselves quietly without sacrificing effectiveness. Through impressive research, Ms. Cain clearly demonstrates the importance of both personality types and the value of introversion. I only wish that I could have read this book when I was younger so that I would have been more confident and accepting of my own nature. After reading it now, I do feel that I can better articulate the importance of my role in society and take pride in the contributions that introverts have made throughout history. ...more As you can see, i've been mixing up my reading lately, THIS ISN'T ROMANCE YAY! Quiet is a fascinating book about the prejudice that our society faces against introverts, and why it's unfounded, and how, as an introvert, you can overcome that, as well as just KNOW yourself better. I never really classified myself as such before, but reading this, I understand why, if I'm exhausted, all I want to be is alone, and how I'm extroverted only when I can control my environment and how that's a THING! If As you can see, i've been mixing up my reading lately, THIS ISN'T ROMANCE YAY! Quiet is a fascinating book about the prejudice that our society faces against introverts, and why it's unfounded, and how, as an introvert, you can overcome that, as well as just KNOW yourself better. I never really classified myself as such before, but reading this, I understand why, if I'm exhausted, all I want to be is alone, and how I'm extroverted only when I can control my environment and how that's a THING! If you're shy or are unsure, this is a great read. I think you'll discover something about yourself, that's why I've recommended to a lot of people lately! ...more This book blew my mind. I loved it so much that I wish I could give a copy to all of my friends and relatives. Susan Cain does an excellent job of explaining the different strengths between introverts and extroverts, and the history of how America came to idealize extroverts. I agree that as a society we tend to value the gregarious go-getters, the loud talkers, the forceful presenters. But Cain's book reminds us that societies need introverts, too \u2014 the thinkers, the listeners, the people who lo This book blew my mind. I loved it so much that I wish I could give a copy to all of my friends and relatives. Susan Cain does an excellent job of explaining the different strengths between introverts and extroverts, and the history of how America came to idealize extroverts. I agree that as a society we tend to value the gregarious go-getters, the loud talkers, the forceful presenters. But Cain's book reminds us that societies need introverts, too \u2014 the thinkers, the listeners, the people who look before leaping. The long, long, long list of introverts in history includes: Albert Einstein, Isaac Newton, George Orwell, Marcel Proust, J. K. Rowling, Lewis Carroll, W. B. Yeats, Warren Buffet, Steve Wozniak, Charles Schultz, Al Gore, Rosa Parks, Gandhi... As an introvert, I found the book comforting and inspiring. But extroverts who are in relationships with introverts or who are parents of an introvert would also do well to read this book. The author has good tips for how to handle introverts, especially children. \"Love is essential. Gregariousness is optional ... Use your natural powers -- of persistence, concentration, insight and sensitivity -- to do work you love and work that matters. Solve problems, make art, think deeply. Figure out what you are meant to contribute to the world and make sure you contribute it.\" Update April 2015 I read this book about two years ago, and I think it has been the most influential book I've read in years. Cain's book profoundly changed how I viewed myself, others, and our various roles in society. I have recommended this book to numerous friends, and some of them commented on how grateful they were to have read it. I will add managers and supervisors to the list of people who I think should read this book, because it helps to explain some workplace and group dynamics. While the writing isn't perfect (I remember Cain meanders a bit), I'm leaving my rating at 5 stars because of how powerful and inspirational this book has been. ...more There's a real pleasure in recognition. Hearing about yourself, finding out you're not alone, it can be a huge relief and release. And so, as a long-time (although fairly gregarious) introvert, I enjoyed this book quite a bit. Not much of it was truly surprising, but still, it's nice to read a book that validates the way I tend to operate anyway. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decisio There's a real pleasure in recognition. Hearing about yourself, finding out you're not alone, it can be a huge relief and release. And so, as a long-time (although fairly gregarious) introvert, I enjoyed this book quite a bit. Not much of it was truly surprising, but still, it's nice to read a book that validates the way I tend to operate anyway. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Most of this, to be honest, is self-explanatory, but the rest is a fairly comprehensive exploration of how extroversion became a public ideal back in the 1920's, replacing the power of character with personality and the social stigma that has ever since been placed upon people who don't seem vibrant and ebullient. It shouldn't come as any surprise to anyone that 1/3 to 1/2 of all people are introverts, but because we live in a society that places a premium on everything non-introverted, most of Most of this, to be honest, is self-explanatory, but the rest is a fairly comprehensive exploration of how extroversion became a public ideal back in the 1920's, replacing the power of character with personality and the social stigma that has ever since been placed upon people who don't seem vibrant and ebullient. It shouldn't come as any surprise to anyone that 1/3 to 1/2 of all people are introverts, but because we live in a society that places a premium on everything non-introverted, most of us have to fake it to make it, and with that comes exhaustion and misunderstanding, whether with our bosses, our intimates, or with ourselves and our own natures. This book tells us to relax. Be ourselves. Value what you value and understand that some people aren't naturally conflict avoidant, that they like to express anger, surround themselves with a bunch of shallow social jostlers, and that we oughtn't judge our extroverted peers when they jump into decision-making strategies that sink ships and endanger the lives of everyone around them just because they couldn't be bothered to think things through before opening their damn mouths. And please don't judge all the sheep that are impressed by the aggressive blowhards and follow on their every word because they're just so damn charismatic, either. It's okay to think and spend some time alone from others. Really. It might just be the salvation of the world if enough of us just throw off the yoke of social expectations or the stigma of shyness and just get prepared, build up all our talents and reserves in peace, and strike when the time is perfect. We're not unobservant, after all. We just have little patience for bullshit. And even if society has taught us to lie our asses off whenever we're expected to be gregarious and social in all those damn shallow ways that others tell us are the only way to make it in this world, don't despair. The High Social Monitoring we do is a coping mechanism that we've had to develop PRECISELY because we're considered social pariahs. Oh, and GoodReads is a hotbed for a grass-roots introvert revolution. I don't think anyone here will have any real difficulty cultivating contacts and building their networking, because, after all, we're all discussing things that are very important to us and we're diving deep into the material, wallowing in our talents and our passions, and when we rise, And Oh! We will Rise! We will rise like the phoenix from the ashes of social scorn and we will scour the world of all those who would ever deny us our right to sit in silence to read our favorite book or sit in silence to write a chapter in our next brilliant novel. We Will Overcome! (Aside: Some interpretations of this book are mine only and should not be associated with the author.) ...more Like the friend whose brutal honesty is never immediately welcome but reveals its necessary truths the more you bitterly and obsessively try to prove her wrong (in your head, of course, always in your head because no one else understands, damnit ), this book made me confront things about myself that I always kind of knew but glossed over with conciliatory explanations. I am, according to the battery of Myers-Briggs tests that Dr. Internet has administered to me (and that offer the same result no Like the friend whose brutal honesty is never immediately welcome but reveals its necessary truths the more you bitterly and obsessively try to prove her wrong (in your head, of course, always in your head because no one else understands, damnit ), this book made me confront things about myself that I always kind of knew but glossed over with conciliatory explanations. I am, according to the battery of Myers-Briggs tests that Dr. Internet has administered to me (and that offer the same result no matter how cleverly I think I've outsmarted the aforementioned countless variations of personality assessments), of the INFP persuasion, just like Virginia Woolf and Sylvia Plath were presumed to be, along with many other notable people who haven't killed themselves (like Tim Burton, Billy Shakes and Albert Camus). All sources stress that it's one of the rarer personality types, which at least begins to explain why I feel so interminably weird compared to other people all the time. But I think my introversion also comes with a tinge of self-loathing, for as much as I dislike the idea of being around crowds of people to the extent that I always took those commercials advertising a pill to treat social anxiety as a personal attack on my personality, my stuttering, socially awkward self who identifies with the fictional characters and real ideas populating book after book better than the world beyond my front door is also maddeningly, desperately eager to be the center of attention. Not that I always know what to do with that attention once I get it, as it's fun for about five minutes before the urge to dive for solitary cover re-assumes control. And I think I tend to resent well-adjusted introverts a little for their totally-alien-to-me experience of being comfortable in their own skins. Which brings us to my biggest problem with this book: The author was entirely too present in this study on introverts. I know, I know : My reviews have gotten to be so totally about me that I feel like a hypocritical dick lobbing such a complaint at this presumably well-meaning book. When I read This is Your Brain on Music , I got so pissed off at the reviewers who complained similarly about how Levitin frequently drew on his own experiences because, c'mon, personal experience counts for something while lending a sense of credibility to the research conducted and the conclusions made: The difference, I think, is that Levitin used himself to bring a high-minded concept down to understandable terms for those of us lacking scientific minds whereas Cain sometimes seemed like she just wanted to talk about herself. There's nothing wrong with that, of course, but that would have made a better blog than a book. By falling back on her own brand of introversion, it felt like she was both negating the argument that the personality type expresses itself in an inexhaustibly many ways and also even alienating other expressions of introversion to a degree. Actually, I wasn't always crazy about the kind of people Cain used as examples of introverts who were able to overcome their crippling shyness or need to be alone (because shyness isn't always an introvert-specific trait, as this book did teach me) to function -- nay, thrive -- in the vast, sometimes overwhelming world beyond their rich inner landscapes. I mean, for a book subtitled \"The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking,\" it would make sense to use Harvard Business School students, Ivy League professors, academic whiz kids on the cusp of high school and everything after, neuroscientists and Wall Street investors (to name a few) to illustrate the victories that can arise from harnessing one's naturally unassuming, slow-to-action instincts and applying them to real-world scenarios. And that was reassuring and motivating and helpful, sure, but what would have been a little more helpful is seeing how an everyday introvert with a quiet job and a simple existence confronts life's obstacles when confrontation does not come easy. (And, yes, there is a whole section on the ordinary workplace and how open floor plans and the elimination of boundaries and this emphasis on group work and collective brainstorming that are all so in vogue really aren't all that conducive to brilliance and happiness and cohesion and all that. But that was more of an academically detached observation than a personal reality.) I really didn't hate this book. Really. I didn't love it but it did force some personal insight on me that I've probably been needing to hear. Like how facing down one's own unique hell, like public speaking (which, hi, have I mentioned that I stutter?), isn't, like, fatal and is worth overcoming. And that just because the Western ideal favors extroverted characteristics doesn't mean it's better -- and that, in fact, a lot of how I approach the world (I'd rather not talk unless I have something worthwhile to say; I don't want to assert myself at the risk of disrespecting the greater whole) is mirrored in the traditionally Eastern approach. That the person speaking the most or first or loudest is rarely offering the best ideas, as a facade of overconfidence often hides an array of interior doubts. That knowing to pick one's battles and proceeding with a quiet assurance is a strength in its own right. The penultimate chapter was nothing but an exploration of how extro- and introverts complement each other and how the two seemingly at-odds personality types can look inward to identify their outwardly differing approaches to the world. As most people are not like me, it did offer some perspective shifts that I found to be genuinely helpful wisdom in terms of how my perception of myself and others doesn't always align with what they either see or know to be true. For one glorious moment, it even seemed like Cain was talking directly to me in addressing the way that the real-life introverted wife of an extroverted man tended to emotionally distance herself from an argument, as she thought she was keeping herself in check while he thought she was shutting him out, which is a difference in interpretation that never even crossed my conflicted mind. I had perused the table of contents before reading even a word of this book and actually groaned when I saw that the final chapter explores \"how to cultivate quiet kids in a world that can't hear them,\" which I figured would read like a laundry list of all the ways my parents failed me. And, I mean, it did, of course, but after recovering from bursting into tears almost immediately at the beginning of the chapter (because, man, was it ever hitting too close to home), I realized that it was only ostensibly advice for nurturing introverted children so they can happily grow into their places in an ill-fitting world: It was really, truly a comforting pat on the back that reached into the past to assure my inner child (the part of it that isn't a perverted little teenage boy, anyway) that she was never as alone and misunderstood as she felt. And if this book had more of those moments, I might have actually wound up loving it. ...more Once upon a time there was a woman who dreaded the staff meeting roundtable, when each person had to share what was good or bad or on their professional plate that week or in their personal life. All five, nine, fifteen pairs of eyes would be upon her as she forced her voice to carry down the table, knocking off as few words as she could to express, \u201cEverything\u2019s great!\u201d before turning her flushed face to the colleague beside her. This same woman could take the stage before an audience in the hu Once upon a time there was a woman who dreaded the staff meeting roundtable, when each person had to share what was good or bad or on their professional plate that week or in their personal life. All five, nine, fifteen pairs of eyes would be upon her as she forced her voice to carry down the table, knocking off as few words as she could to express, \u201cEverything\u2019s great!\u201d before turning her flushed face to the colleague beside her. This same woman could take the stage before an audience in the hundreds at a conference and deliver a speech with poise, loving every moment she was in the spotlight. She\u2019d spin around her shopping cart to avoid meeting an acquaintance in the produce department at the grocery store, then host a wine dinner that night for twenty strangers, her joy bubbling as much as the Champagne she poured, explaining to the assembled crowd the difference between m\u00e9thode traditionelle and transfer method of production. She could spend hours waiting tables at a busy restaurant, engaging in happy grace and good humor with dozens of customers, but the thought of a Friday night party at a friend\u2019s, hanging out in a kitchen drinking beer with a few people from work? She\u2019d feign a sudden flu or a last-minute family obligation to avoid hours of mindless chatter. That I am an introvert is not news to me. I can\u2019t recall when I first took the Myers-Briggs personality type test, but I should have INFJ tattooed on my forehead, for the results never waver. And at some point, I got the message that being an introvert doesn't mean I'm shy, for I am not; it doesn't mean I'm not a risk-taker, for I am, or that I don\u2019t form deep personal attachments, for I have many. What it does mean, among many things, is that socializing wears me out. I abhor chitchat, loud people, group projects and \u201cgoing out.\u201d It means I love to lose myself in solitary endeavors. It means I love process, not reward. It means I\u2019d rather just sit and listen. And when I have something to say, please be patient. I\u2019m not a fast talker, I pause a lot, searching for just the right word. And even then you\u2019ll probably have to strain to hear me. Unless I\u2019ve thoroughly rehearsed my responses, I\u2019ll never deliver my thoughts with articulate confidence. There are parts of Susan Cain\u2019s Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can\u2019t Stop Talking that made me laugh, even as tears stung my eyes. Knowing that I prefer to be alone\u2014that I have little tolerance for casual social situations\u2014never released me from feeling that I needed to overcome my social awkwardness and impatience, my thin skin and tendency to fret about the future and things beyond my control. I thought these were faults, not characteristics of a personality type shared by millions, most of us existing in contemplative, considerate silence. Through research, anecdotal interviews and personal experiences, Cain explores the ways introverted personalities manifest themselves in the workplace and personal relationships. The section on \u201chighly-sensitive\u201d people struck home. The highly sensitive tend to be philosophical or spiritual in their orientation, rather than materialistic or hedonistic. They dislike small talk. They often describe themselves as creative or intuitive. They love music, nature, art, physical beauty. They feel exceptionally strong emotions\u2014sometimes acute bouts of joy, but also sorrow, melancholy, and fear. They are highly empathetic\u2026with thinner boundaries separating them from other people\u2019s emotions and from the tragedies and cruelties of the world Yes, please. Reading this, I realized one of the reasons I tend to shut myself off and away is because I am overwhelmed by my own helplessness to change the world. I take things so personally and feel them so deeply that I become frozen in place, not knowing how to translate feeling into action. When Cain discusses her professional epiphany, I had another laugh/cry moment. Hers was realizing that she was never cut out to be a corporate lawyer; mine, a university and corporate administrator. There are many aspects of our professions in which we excelled, rising quickly through the ranks. But neither of us is cut out for committee work, for schmoozing and glad-handing, for blowing our own horn\u2014all required in legal circles, ivory towers and boardrooms. I loved the one-on-one time I spent counseling students, building relationships with individual faculty, developing administrative processes and procedures, doing research and yes, presenting at conferences and leading workshops, for which I rehearsed and prepared weeks in advance. But I knew I\u2019d never rise to the ranks of the one in charge; I simply wasn\u2019t built for the social demands and networking required of a Director. So, for fifteen years I left job after job just at the pinnacle of power and success\u2014always the Bridesmaid, never the Bride. I never really knew why, except that something was inherently wrong with me. At last, I accept nothing is wrong with me; denying myself the opportunity to advance was recognition that moving up meant moving into roles for which I was constitutionally not suited. Now I am a writer. And a happy little clam. I work to create niches of social balance to avoid complete isolation\u2014I belong to a book club, a writer\u2019s group, I volunteer, meet friends for coffee. Social media is a great release for me, because I only talk when I want to, I have all the time in the world to construct my thoughts (which I can edit later!) and no one is looking at me as I speak. Quiet has given me permission not to regard my limited in-person social circle as evidence of a failure of personality, but as respect given to my true nature: \u201cLove is essential: gregariousness is optional.\u201d In some ways, working through the theories and examples in this book is exhausting and dispiriting\u2014if I\u2019d had a better understanding of how I function best, would I have made different choices? Yet, the most important choices I\u2019ve made\u2014excelling at and loving parts of my profession that I\u2019m built for and not being swayed by extrinsic rewards to pursue paths for which I am not; the dogged determination that puts me in front of a keyboard every day with few indications that I will be able to make a living doing what I love\u2014I\u2019ve stuck to my temperament. My life\u2019s path hasn\u2019t been without its stumbles, but even without knowing quite what makes me tick, I've been true to my nature. This is Cain\u2019s consistent and loudest message, delivered with the gentle power of an introvert. A Manifesto for Introverts (from Quiet ) 1.\tThere\u2019s a word for \u201cpeople who are in their heads too much\u201d: Thinkers. 2.\tSolitude is a catalyst for innovation. 3.\tThe next generation of quiet kids can and must be raised to know their own strengths. 4.\tSometimes it helps to be a pretend extrovert. There will always be time to be quiet later. 5.\tBut in the long run, staying true to your temperament is key to finding work you love and work that matters. 6.\tOne genuine new relationship is worth a fistful of business cards. 7.\tIt\u2019s OK to cross the street to avoid making small talk. 8.\t\u201cQuiet leadership\u201d is not an oxymoron. 9.\tLove is essential; gregariousness is optional. 10.\t\u201cIn a gentle way, you can shake the world.\u201d \u2013 Mahatma Ghandi ...more Part I: Prelude to the review Part II: The review ________________________________ Part I Prelude: An introvert walks into a bookstore I read a review on this book today and decided I had to buy it right away. I consider myself somewhat of an introvert, even though not everyone around me agrees on that, because you know, I talk to people and can be pleasant at the same time. Convincing people there's more to the introvert-extrovert distinction than that hasn't always proven easy. I was hoping this boo Part I: Prelude to the review Part II: The review ________________________________ Part I Prelude: An introvert walks into a bookstore I read a review on this book today and decided I had to buy it right away. I consider myself somewhat of an introvert, even though not everyone around me agrees on that, because you know, I talk to people and can be pleasant at the same time. Convincing people there's more to the introvert-extrovert distinction than that hasn't always proven easy. I was hoping this book would prove my point, at the very least for me. I went to the Waterstones branch in Brussels, which is a ten minute walk from where I work. I had to be back in thirty minutes, giving me ten minutes at the store itself to look for the book. Yes, when I said \"right away\" earlier, I meant right away. Not half a day could wait. I go in the store and proceed up to the first floor to check out the non-fiction segments. I do not find the book. I put my head and neck in every possible angle, scanning the shelves from every possible perspective, to no avail. Surely, I must be looking in the wrong shelf. Maybe it's downstairs, because they have a table of bestselling non-fiction there as well, so maybe it's there. Yes! I make my way back down and I look and I find nothing. I've been in the store for at least 7 minutes now, so running out of options, I approach two people working for the store, rudely interrupting their conversation which I was trying to avoid intruding upon earlier. They inform me that the book should be there on the shelf, the one I had checked earlier. I pretend I didn't check it earlier and thank them for their kind and helpful information. I go back to the shelf with renewed confidence I would find it this time. Angles. Perspectives. Cold sweat. Alas. I return to the employees, sadly noting that my interruption seemingly meant the end to their conversation, and inquired again. The lady says it's a completely white cover (as opposed to the cover I was subconsciously looking for because of the example I had seen on Goodreads) and mentally kick myself when she escorts me to the shelf to point it out. But, to her consternation and to my relief, it isn't there. Did I check downstairs? I cautiously respond in the affirmative. She will check the computer, she's certain there are copies available. And... Computer says Yes! Victory! It's in the store, but probably still in the storage room. She asks me to wait while she goes to fetch it. I'm already running out of time (I had ran out of time four minutes prior, to be exact), but quietly thank her for her enthusiasm in helping me. She returns five minutes later, visibly having gone through physical efforts to help me out. The copy she hands me is damaged, dirty and it has a sticker on it which I know won't be removed without further damage. In short: the kind of book I avoid buying in all circumstances. I smile, I thank her, and buy the book. Now I'm here, late at work, and with a brand-new dirty damaged book beside me. Yes, this book is proving I'm introverted alright. Yay me. Or maybe I'm confusing lack of being assertive with introversion. Whatever the case, this book will teach. It has already begun doing so, in any case. ________________________________ Part II Review of Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking We're amazing and we know it and we don't clap our hands. Before I started reading this book, I was hoping it would do two things: 1. tell me what I wanted to hear 2. tell me what I needed to hear. It gets three stars because it told me what I wanted to hear. This book is the voice of those who are disinclined to use theirs: the introverts. It puts the introverts under a shower of compliments, in the kind of spotlight we're comfortable in: a generous ode that we can absorb from the comfort of our own cozy corner in our own cozy homes, telling us we have a value in this society. This may seem like a ridiculous reason to give stars to a book, but I think it's a good thing that someone gave attention to a group of people who are not used to, and not always comfortable with, getting so much positive feedback. I can imagine it being a helpful outstretched hand to those introverts who have felt misunderstood, out of place or underappreciated. A hand which shows that what they have been struggling with wasn't just inside their mind. It's a fact that society, being largely built on communication and intense interaction, can seem unfit for those who prefer the thinking-mode and absence of interaction most of the time. So on a personal level, this book definitely can have its value. I say \"can\" and am basing my rating on this potential, though for me personally it wasn't such an eye-opener. I think on some level I've always been very secure about my introversion, despite some practical problems as described in the prelude. In a way I find it funny to think about myself operating like that. I surprise myself in these moments, because before those moments I have this sensible and ideal scenario playing out in my mind and after those moments I'm this rational guy being perfectly capable of seeing how ridiculous I was. But that doesn't prevent me from being ridiculous in the moment. Another reason why this book didn't always work for me on the personal level is because it went too far with the compliments. Consider the following excerpt: \"If you're an introvert, find your flow by using your gifts. You have the power of persistence, the tenacity to solve complex problems, and the clear-sightedness to avoid pitfalls that trip others up. You enjoy relative freedom from the temptations of superficial prizes like money and status. Indeed, your biggest challenge may be to fully harness your strenghts. You may be so busy trying to appear like a zestful, reward-sensitive extrovert that you undervalue your own talents, or feel underestimated by those around you. But when you're focused on a project that you care about, you'll probably find that your energy is boundless. So stay true to your own nature.\" At that point I had a little introverted vomit. It's not an all-together bad book, but segments like these really bring it down for me. Segments like the above read like a cheap horoscope-zodiac segment at the end of some teenage magazine. There's only so much of the \"what I want to hear\" that I can take before I start wondering if there's any truth to it. On a societal level, I don't think this book is as important as it has been made out to be. Introverts indeed consist of a big part of society and thus have helped form it. I'm of the belief that society can't progress by itself. Nothing can be \"expected\" from society. Society shouldn't cater to any particular group, it's the particular groups that have to find or fight for their place and evolve themselves, in turn engendering progress in society. I think introverts have done a very fine job of this before this book came around, and some anecdotes in this book are proof of that. Introverts have thrived in our world, and will continue to do so. Should education systems be reformed to cater to us? Should work environments do the same? I'm not convinced. Proposals like that make the introvert look like an easily damaged little flower, crushed under the weight of these rigid systems, while I think it's exactly these rigid systems that allow introverts to identify themselves as such. So if the point of this book was patting the introvert on the shoulder to say \"You're amazing\", it does that well. But to go from there to \"You need a society that takes better care of you\" is a leap I had difficulties in going along with. There are some practical pointers for introverts, showing how, when or if we should change our behavior to function well in society or, more importantly, in personal relationships with friends, family and partners. The \"need to hear\"-portion of the book, so to speak. I think most of the solutions offered have been found instinctively by introverts around the world, but I found it nice to hear there's actually a word for \"restorative niches\". Remembering my long bathroom brakes when I worked in an open office space has become a little less awkward. Getting more familiar with these concepts definitely makes it a lot easier to give this further thought and find ways forward in my sphere of relations. An important problem I have with the book is its premise: \"the introvert/extrovert divide is the most fundamental dimension of personality\" . Susan Cain makes it sound like a truism. Maybe it is true, yes. But I have to say \"maybe\" because I don't feel a premise this crucial has been sufficiently backed up. The author tries to do so, referring to experiments and studies where 28% of a group consisting of people possessing an amygdala that is 11% larger than average were 62% more inclined to respond in such and such a way to such and such incentives. The academic back-up felt like a whole lot of cherrypicking. But all those cherries put together did give the impression that they're the only fruit available, giving the idea that the extrovert/introvert divide is indeed inescapable. This leads me to anoher problem: the divide between introverts and extroverts created by the narration itself. It's true, the author sometimes goes out of her way to compliment extroverts as well, mentioning some of their strengths, but that's just the thing: she has to go out of her way to do it. It shows all the more clearly that the natural discourse, through offhand claims and implicit associations, presents the extroverts as ... \"the others\". And if you picture them as the others, naturally all compliments given to introverts can be read as affronts to the extroverts. I can easily imagine some of the examples and assertions leaving a sour taste of any extrovert's mouth reading this book. (at least when these mouths aren't too busy blabbering about the weather ;-) ) Should I hold all this against this book specifically? Truth is I have a problem with most non-fiction books (especially self-help) for this reason: they are written to make a point. A very specific point that they keep getting back to, ad nauseam. The more you hit a nail on the head, the less there's left to see of its point. At least for me. Chesterton says it a lot better: \u201cPeople wonder why the novel is the most popular form of literature; people wonder why it is read more than books of science or books of metaphysics. The reason is very simple; it is merely that the novel is more true than they are.\u201d \u2015 G.K. Chesterton I felt this was true in this case as well. I showed \"Quiet\" more patience because the topic is something I really care about and gave a lot of thought to, but in the end it's Chesterton's way of thinking that prevailed in my experience of this book. That said, the three stars are definitely deserved for all the good this book has done for the introverts, in recognizing that other introverts are going through the same thing and in valueing themselves. I just wished it would have described a little less of what we wanted to hear, and would have done much more of what we needed to hear. But maybe we don't \"need\" to hear all that much, anyway. We're amazing and we know it and we don't clap our hands. ...more This book spoke directly to my soul, to the core of my being. If you\u2019re on this site and reading this, you probably enjoy time alone to read, think and recharge your batteries. It\u2019s not that you\u2019re anti-social, you just prefer having meaningful conversations with one or two people rather than being stuck in a room with a loud group talking about... nothing. Susan Cain\u2019s book will validate you and make you feel you\u2019re not a freak. You don\u2019t need \u201cto come out of your shell.\u201d In fact, there are more This book spoke directly to my soul, to the core of my being. If you\u2019re on this site and reading this, you probably enjoy time alone to read, think and recharge your batteries. It\u2019s not that you\u2019re anti-social, you just prefer having meaningful conversations with one or two people rather than being stuck in a room with a loud group talking about... nothing. Susan Cain\u2019s book will validate you and make you feel you\u2019re not a freak. You don\u2019t need \u201cto come out of your shell.\u201d In fact, there are more of us out there than you\u2019d think. \u201cIntroverts\u201d \u2013 even the word has negative connotations \u2013 make up somewhere between \u2153 and \u00bd of the population. Cain, who trained as a lawyer but discovered the corporate world wasn\u2019t for her, provides a fascinating look at how current society champions the extrovert ideal. People who speak quickly and loudly (even if they\u2019re not saying much) get praised and promoted. Team-work is encouraged, and there\u2019s no \u201cI\u201d in team, now is there? But introverts, those quiet people who are trying to focus while people are blabbing all around them, have a lot to contribute. Yet they're often ignored. Early sections of the book are devoted to closely examining this extrovert ideal, in a hellishly hilarious Tony Robbins motivation seminar; in the running of a super church; and in studying how Dale Carnegie altered the social landscape with his gung-ho bible How To Win Friends And Influence People . Cain looks at the science of temperament, showing how differences are evident from childbirth \u2013 an extended bit about \u201chigh and low reactive people\u201d is fascinating. She also shows that introverts might actually be physiologically more \u201cthin-skinned\u201d than extroverts, and how introversion and conscience are connected. Understanding personality types isn\u2019t just theoretical. It has practical applications. Cain suggests how the extroverts in the business world may have caused the 2008 Wall Street crash. And her look at other cultures \u2013 Asia, for instance \u2013 demonstrates that the extrovert ideal isn\u2019t a universal phenomenon. I found the sections on how introverts learn how to become \u201cfake\u201d extroverts absolutely mind-blowing. There are stories of wildly successful professors and even sales people you\u2019d never classify as introverts but are. I understand this. I think any introvert living in this society has learned, by necessity, how to be more gregarious \u2013 through confident voice, posture, attitude \u2013 even though it\u2019s not necessarily in his or her nature. I\u2019ve delivered public talks, sat (and talked) on many panels, go to gala openings and for several years had to chat weekly on national TV, always extremely well-prepared (de rigueur for introverts)... but I never really felt or feel completely at ease in these environments. I have to decompress afterwards with close friends. Or go home and read a book. One of the most valuable lessons Cain teaches us is to follow our instincts, especially concerning work and love. To go against our natures could be fatal. Cain also offers up inspiring examples of introverts throughout history: from Rosa Parks and Eleanor Roosevelt to Steve Wozniak and Mahatma Gandhi. Each one is instructive and remarkable. The book gets bogged down near the end by illustrations of how introverts and extroverts can get along. And at times there\u2019s a bit of over-compensating rah-rahing for the underdog. But it\u2019s not introvert = good, extrovert = bad, and after all, most of us aren\u2019t exclusively in one camp or the other. (Plus: is an extrovert really going to read something called Quiet ?) This is a remarkable book, and essential reading for teachers, employers and parents. And for all of you thoughtful friends and readers on Goodreads. ...more Quiet entered my life at a particularly low moment. Allow me to set the scene: I had been on vacation for a week and a half. We were in Colorado, visiting my husband's family, some of whom I had met before, others whom I had not. I knew I wasn't going to be entirely comfortable being around people the whole trip- I'm a huge introvert and I'm self aware enough to know that I need downtime, and quite a bit of it, to feel as if I'm functioning normally. But I didn't realize that my husband, who is Quiet entered my life at a particularly low moment. Allow me to set the scene: I had been on vacation for a week and a half. We were in Colorado, visiting my husband's family, some of whom I had met before, others whom I had not. I knew I wasn't going to be entirely comfortable being around people the whole trip- I'm a huge introvert and I'm self aware enough to know that I need downtime, and quite a bit of it, to feel as if I'm functioning normally. But I didn't realize that my husband, who is just as introverted as I am and who I was counting on to help me through all of the introductions, dinners, conversations, etc, was going to immerse himself in Pokemon Go a majority of the time and essentially leave me to my own devices. As Susan Cain would say, he found a \"restorative niche\" for himself in a digital world. It was hard on me as I didn't have that escape. So, here we are, visiting a friend's home and my daughter, who strangely enough is a huge extrovert (the exact opposite of her parents), is struggling. She's tired, out-of-sorts, and throwing a sulk every ten minutes. I'm meeting yet more people, trying to hold trite conversations, and steer my child, all the while just wanting to retreat into a cave and not talk to anyone for a very long time. Honestly, I felt that way before we reached the party, but things seemed to get much, much worse the moment we arrived. It had been building over the course of the vacation, but that day, my internal clamor reached a boiling point. My husband was oblivious to my growing discomfort as he's catching Pokemon, again. (I don't mean to sound bitter here, but I suppose that I am.) I had forced myself for ten days to be social, keep the smile on my face, keep everything flowing smoothly. To my horror, I realize that I am about to have a panic attack in the middle of this crowd of people, more than half of whom I don't even know. I grab my keys and leave. I drive a couple blocks away, castigating myself for not being able to handle it and just pissed because, once again, like many times in my childhood, adolescence, and adulthood, I feel like I'm failing at life because I'm not a social butterfly. I can't stand to be around strangers for extended periods of time. I've always been this way- overly sensitive to others, noise, motion, events. I really dislike groups, parties, places where I have to circulate with a bunch of people who don't know me or care about anything that I have to say. The tears fell down my cheeks as I opened up my tablet and began reading this book. And I discovered that about half of all people are just like me. Thank you, Susan Cain. Your book gave me the courage to drive back to my friend's house and face the rest of the evening. I am not a pariah. I am an introvert and perhaps I can do a better job figuring out when I've reached my socializing limits before I meltdown. Many of the positive attributes of introverts which Susan describes, I totally have, I've just never considered them as worth the trade-off of the extroverted personality. I notice small details, have a great memory for conversations and events, long past the time when others forget such things. I think carefully about problems and people, devoting time to taking apart small nuances of books and movies, that other people don't even consider, which makes me a good reviewer of media- perfect for my job as a librarian. Susan nailed my general feeling about myself in the introduction: \"Introverts living under the Extrovert Ideal are like women in a man's world, discounted because of a trait that goes to the core of who they are. Extroversion is an enormously appealing personality style, but we've turned it into an oppressive standard to which most of us feel we must conform.\" pg 34 ebook. Yes! My role at the reference desk calls for an extroverted personality but I muddle through it, because I care about the job and helping others. Usually, I come home from work, totally worn out and in need of quiet time to unwind. Susan helped me understand that sometimes \"faking it\" is worth it, if it for a cause that means something to you and that others do the exact same thing that I do. Pull out the mask for the job, but then allow yourself the freedom to be who you really are at home: \"According to Free Trait Theory, we are born and culturally endowed with certain personality traits- introversion, for example- but we can and do act out of character in the service of \"core personal projects.\" In other words, introverts are capable of acting like extroverts for the sake of work they consider important, people they love, or anything they value highly.\" pg 391 ebook. My favorite parts of the book were about sensitivity and social situations. Take this passage: \"...maybe we didn't choose ... social accessories at random. Maybe we've adopted dark glasses, relaxed body language, and alcohol as signifiers precisely because they camouflage signs of a nervous system on overdrive. Sunglasses prevent others from seeing our eyes dilate with surprise or fear; we know from Kagan's work that a relaxed torso is a hallmark of low reactivity; and alcohol removes our inhibitions and lowers our arousal levels. When you go to a football game and someone offers you a beer, says the personality psychologist Brian Little, \"they're really saying hi, have a glass of extroversion.\" pg 277 ebook. I may use that in my life. \"Please hand me that glass of extroversion.\" I also really enjoyed learning the differences in thinking: \"Introverts and extroverts also direct their attention differently: if you leave them to their own devices, the introverts tend to sit around wondering about things, imagining things, recalling events from their past, and making plans for the future. The extroverts are more likely to focus on what's happening around them. It's as if extroverts are seeing \"what is\" while their introverted peers are asking \"what if.\" pg 323 ebook. Yeah, I do that too. I can't recommend this book highly enough. It saved an evening for me, but more importantly, it changed the way that I view myself. There is power in knowing that you're not alone. Again, thank you, Susan Cain. Some read-alikes: The Introvert's Way: Living a Quiet Life in a Noisy World by Sophia Dembling (for introversion) or Furiously Happy: A Funny Book About Horrible Things by Jenny Lawson (for more instances of social anxiety). ...more It's perhaps not a surprise that Susan Cain, the author of Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking identifies herself as an introvert. Being quiet, introverted or shy is still seen by many as a problem or handicap to overcome so I can see her motivation for writing it. One this book's premises is that in the last 50 years or so, the Western world moved from a culture of character to a culture of personality, which according to the author has given an advantage to people It's perhaps not a surprise that Susan Cain, the author of Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking identifies herself as an introvert. Being quiet, introverted or shy is still seen by many as a problem or handicap to overcome so I can see her motivation for writing it. One this book's premises is that in the last 50 years or so, the Western world moved from a culture of character to a culture of personality, which according to the author has given an advantage to people that enjoyed outgoing, uninhibited personalities. We tend to admire and reward people that exhibit the most gregarious, outgoing traits of extroverts while at the same time undermined and misunderstand those that are most typically seen in more introverted individuals. Introversion is really about having a preference for lower stimulation environments. So it's just a preference for quiet, for less noise, for less action. Whereas extroverts really crave more stimulation in order to feel at their best. The author explains that Introversion is a spectrum, and that most of us don't fully fit into an introvert/extrovert definition. It also provides a sort of \"survival guide\" for introverts to help us learn how to better deal with the pressures of living in a world that for the most part rewards those that are extroverts. Many people believe that introversion is about being antisocial, and that's really a misperception. Because actually it's just that introverts are differently social. So they would prefer to have a glass of wine with a close friend as opposed to going to a loud party full of strangers. This book helped me understand myself better, identify those traits that makes many of us \"introverts\" different and learn how to use them to our advantage, both on our professional and personal lives. The book is entertaining and well written. If you are interested in learning about introverts, perhaps because you feel like one or someone closed to you does, this book might be of interest to you. After reading Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking my conclusion is that the world needs both extroverts and introverts and that we all have a role to play. Here's a link to the author's TED TALK which is sort a summarized version of the book: http://www.ted.com/talks/susan_cain_t... ...more A must read for everyone, not just introverts. Susan Cain, former Wall Street lawyer and self-described introvert, investigates how introversion has become dangerously scorned in the current American \"Culture of Personality.\" I had not fully realized how drastically our cultural values have shifted--and how much American society pushes us to conform--until reading Cain's book. To prove her point, Cain visits American bastions of extroversion promotion, including Harvard Business School, Saddleba A must read for everyone, not just introverts. Susan Cain, former Wall Street lawyer and self-described introvert, investigates how introversion has become dangerously scorned in the current American \"Culture of Personality.\" I had not fully realized how drastically our cultural values have shifted--and how much American society pushes us to conform--until reading Cain's book. To prove her point, Cain visits American bastions of extroversion promotion, including Harvard Business School, Saddleback Church, Dale Carnegie, Wall Street, and Tony Robbins conferences. She talks with pioneering psychologists and neurologists to explain the studies behind concepts like the dangers of group think, the ability to delay gratification, or the trait called sensitivity. She profiles famous and less-well known introverts to show how the studies play out in real life. Though the many of the activities I'm drawn to (and the things that cause anxiety) scream classic introvert, I have always considered myself an extrovert and frequently put myself in situations where extroverted behavior is valued. However, since quitting my job and globe-hopping for the past two years, I've been surprised (and disappointed) by how often the constant stimulation, new people, and change can drain me--and by how I often feel an overwhelming need for alone time. I found myself relating to many of the points Cain discusses and have since concluded that I'm much more of an introvert than I had thought. (I promise that this isn't just because she does a good job of highlighting all the positive things about introverts!) So for that, I am grateful to have read Quiet, though I can't quite believe it took reading a book to figure that out about myself! I am seeing my preferences in a new light and have much understanding and acceptance regarding the things that interest me (and those that cause me stress). I've been having trouble narrowing down 'what I want to do with my life' and this book has helped me more than any other, because I finally feel like I can accept that the things I really enjoy are just a part of me and can't be ignored. Though the personal application will differ, I suspect many people will come away having learned much more than they expected, if not about themselves, then about people close to them. I had always thought of extroverts and introverts as being on distinct sides of a line, when in fact it's much more of a sliding scale (or perhaps better as two scales: percentage introversion, percentage extroversion). Because we have been culturally pressured and trained to admire extroverted behavior, many of us may be dangerously ignoring our introverted characteristics. This was a game-changing book for me, and I suspect it will be eye-opening to most people who read it. ...more Update: Solid 5 stars..( Jan. 3rd 2016)... I had a reason for a 4.9 rating years ago.. I still believe what I wrote ... however.. this book is a lifetime favorite book!!! I had a conversation about it just yesterday. I can get very charged up about this book. When I've purged giving books away.. I've always 'kept' this one for myself ( yet I've bought extra copies a few times and have given it as a gift). I feel everyone benefits from this book..'everyone' ... and the process of reading it is a fabulo Update: Solid 5 stars..( Jan. 3rd 2016)... I had a reason for a 4.9 rating years ago.. I still believe what I wrote ... however.. this book is a lifetime favorite book!!! I had a conversation about it just yesterday. I can get very charged up about this book. When I've purged giving books away.. I've always 'kept' this one for myself ( yet I've bought extra copies a few times and have given it as a gift). I feel everyone benefits from this book..'everyone' ... and the process of reading it is a fabulous journey too! Rating: 4.9. Why not a solid 5 star rating? At 'times' I felt the author (an introvert herself), painted a slanted side of the extrovert. [these were just 'small' between-the-line-gut-feelings I felt 'sensitive to'].... However: This book is 'excellent'. Its interesting as can be -informative-important- and enjoyable. ...A fast read even 'with' sitting at a table taking notes. (I took 8 long pages of notes)-- it was pure 'joy'....(engaging with this topic). Much to think about, to remember, to discuss. Our book club will talk about this book together Oct. 20th (can't wait). All teachers and parents would benefit from reading this book. *Everyone* would benefit reading this book! I'd suggest this book to EVERYONE!!! ...more I was able to obtain a pre-pub reader's copy of Susan Cain's new book. This is a useful book for the introvert forced to be in the public eye. By public eye I mean more than 1 or 2 people. I, as an introvert, gained a better understanding of why I am the way I am. Most introverts will find helpful tips and info on dealing with work and daily matters. Now if I could only have enough money to move away and live in seclusion. ;-) I really liked this book, especially the beginning part. I so needed to read it. For years people have been telling me to come out of my shell and to be more outgoing and I realized I had definitely playing the role of pseudo-extrovert all this time! I enjoyed reading the fact that we introverts actually have power and hidden strengths. The list of famous introverts surprised me, Rosa Parks, Al Gore and Gandhi in particular. The book also shared some insight into the thinking patterns of extrove I really liked this book, especially the beginning part. I so needed to read it. For years people have been telling me to come out of my shell and to be more outgoing and I realized I had definitely playing the role of pseudo-extrovert all this time! I enjoyed reading the fact that we introverts actually have power and hidden strengths. The list of famous introverts surprised me, Rosa Parks, Al Gore and Gandhi in particular. The book also shared some insight into the thinking patterns of extroverts. All in all, it was an interesting book though the end did drag on a bit. ...more Eye-opener. Astounding. Life-changing. Inspirational. Insightful. All these adjectives and more describe my experience with this amazing book. I'm very much an introvert. I try to avoid social functions as much as possible, but I do love meeting every so often with my dear friends one-on-one. If I do end up at a party, you can bet I'm the one keeping the corner warm. I am an avid reader, a knitter, a sometimes writer, a nerd, and an engineer. My idea of a perfect evening is one spent in the comfo Eye-opener. Astounding. Life-changing. Inspirational. Insightful. All these adjectives and more describe my experience with this amazing book. I'm very much an introvert. I try to avoid social functions as much as possible, but I do love meeting every so often with my dear friends one-on-one. If I do end up at a party, you can bet I'm the one keeping the corner warm. I am an avid reader, a knitter, a sometimes writer, a nerd, and an engineer. My idea of a perfect evening is one spent in the comfort of my apartment, cat in lap, book in hand, coffee at my side. My idea of a perfect vacation is one where I can go to my favorite coffee shop and read. In college, my favorite classes were Differential Equations (in which I, the only female, got a perfect score on the final), Physics, and Fluids. Ever since elementary school, I dreaded a school performances, such as Christmas programs or poetry recitals. At work meetings, I am more likely to listen to everything and be note-taker than I am to present or volunteer ideas. Lately, my boss has said that I need to step things up, become more \"out there\" and confident. Inwardly, I despaired. Wasn't I working hard enough? What was holding me back? Why couldn't I just blurt things out in meetings? Why did I constantly sound nervous, even if I really wasn't? Was there any hope for me to change? And then, like a sign from heaven, I saw this book in the \"New Books\" display at Barnes and Nobles (BTW, I happen to swing by the bookstore at least once a week during lunch - sometimes to purchase, but mostly to pass the time). I remembered a friend had read this and really enjoyed it, and I figured it would help me figure out myself. \"Figure myself out\" would be an understatement; it's as if this book were written specifically for me! Cain breaks down what it means to be an introvert. Turns out despite what my sister is constantly telling me, I'm not weird (alright, not too weird). I have talents and skills. I have a place. And it's not my fault I can't always speak up and make my voice heard. A lot of it is because of how our workforce, our employers, our coworkers, our society functions. Our biology, our parents, our surroundings make us the introverted beings we are. It's just that school and work and the outside world try to tell us that being quiet, that listening and ruminating over things is wrong, that we should be quick to speak and blurt whatever is on our mind. I've known I was an introvert for a while, but it was so refreshing and liberating to learn that there were others with my \"problem\". That I wasn't alone. And, most importantly, I can overcome, nay thrive, in this Extroverted world. And that is the second gift Cain gives us in this book: how to be an Introvert in an Extrovert world and not want to choke yourself at night. I feel like, after reading Quiet, I have a plan for facing my \"work problems\". I feel like I can take the challenge my boss has placed in front of me and succeed. Although a part of me still wishes I could crawl back to my desk and burrow there, I think this book has given me the tools and encouragement I need to speak up. If you are an introvert, you definitely need to read this book. Even if you aren't an introvert, this is a great book to understanding how they think and act. I'm definitely passing this along to everyone I know. ...more I love reading on Friday nights, writing on Saturday afternoons, and having quiet get-togethers on Sunday. But I also enjoy giving presentations at school, tutoring peers in writing, and interacting with various people online and in real life. I'd describe myself as an introvert (and my Meyers-Briggs personality type agrees), though both introverts and extroverts would enjoy this fascinating book by Susan Cain. She provides an intriguing, in-depth perspective on introversion, its connotation in I love reading on Friday nights, writing on Saturday afternoons, and having quiet get-togethers on Sunday. But I also enjoy giving presentations at school, tutoring peers in writing, and interacting with various people online and in real life. I'd describe myself as an introvert (and my Meyers-Briggs personality type agrees), though both introverts and extroverts would enjoy this fascinating book by Susan Cain. She provides an intriguing, in-depth perspective on introversion, its connotation in contrasting cultures, and the psychology behind it. A profusion of the nonfiction I've read has contained too much of something - too many random anecdotes, too much scientific jargon, too many unnecessary statistics or explanations. But Quiet has the perfect blend of personal anecdotes, interesting analysis, detailed explanations, and compelling statistics. Cain references various studies conducted by psychologists and discusses several aspects related to introversion, such as the extrovert ideal, how extroverts and introverts can compliment each other and work together, nature v. nature, etc. Here's one passage about sensitive people (who tend to be more introverted) that struck a chord with me: \"The other thing Aron found about sensitive people is that sometimes they're highly empathic. It's as if they have thinner boundaries separating them from other people's emotions and from the tragedies and cruelties of the world. They tend to have unusually strong consciences. They avoid violent movies and TV shows; they're acutely aware of the consequences of a lapse in their own behavior. In social settings they often focus on subjects like personal problems, which others consider 'too heavy'.\" I guess I have an excuse for exposing so much of myself on my blog, huh? Anyway, Cain delves into other subjects that are intellectually stimulating too, such as the three things she thinks are important in identifying one's personal project. She even brings up the relationship between Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King Jr. as well as other famous historical figures. Overall, highly recommended to everyone curious about their own temperaments and how to embrace their natural personalities. One of the best works of nonfiction I've read. *review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice . ...more I'm really excited about all the works about introverts that's been coming out lately, I think mainly because of this book. I'm not sure if extroverts would have enjoyed this book as much as me, because Cain works hard to prove the merits and necessity of introverts in our society, while down-playing all the reasons why we should have an extrovert ideal. In fact, I think some extroverts would feel a bit offended at this book. But I don't care. I've lived my whole life feeling like there was some I'm really excited about all the works about introverts that's been coming out lately, I think mainly because of this book. I'm not sure if extroverts would have enjoyed this book as much as me, because Cain works hard to prove the merits and necessity of introverts in our society, while down-playing all the reasons why we should have an extrovert ideal. In fact, I think some extroverts would feel a bit offended at this book. But I don't care. I've lived my whole life feeling like there was something wrong with me. I need to speak up, get out there, sell myself, basically become something that I'm not. This book made me realize there's nothing wrong with me, and that I actually have strengths that my extroverted friends, relatives, etc., do not. Instead of constantly seeing myself as disadvantaged because I suck at small talk, don't know how to talk myself up in interviews, and am just a shy person, I just feel like I know myself better. I think teachers should read this book. And I'm going to stop, because this isn't so much as a book review as a blog post or something. This is a total self-help book for introverts. Thank you Cain! **I should also say that Cain uses extensive research and interviews to show the strengths of introverts, so it's actually a pretty scientific book (though made so that it's easy for the every day person like me to understand). I was really surprised at the amount of research done on the differences between introverts and extroverts, especially because the research often shows introverts in a good, positive light, unlike what most people think when they hear the word introvert. ...more I loved this book. As an introvert, I felt like someone was finally telling my side of the story, and understanding my life in general. Definitely going to loan it to some extroverted family members. When I was young, my grandfather, an intelligent farmer, used to call me an introvert, as I sat happily in the corner, spending my free time reading books or writing in my notebooks. I looked up at him, I believe I was around the age of eight or so, with crinkled eyebrows. He explained what it meant. But I didn't have a puzzled look on my face because I didn't understand the word, I was puzzled because he said it like he disapproved. Like it was a bad thing. My aunt, the doctor, immediately came When I was young, my grandfather, an intelligent farmer, used to call me an introvert, as I sat happily in the corner, spending my free time reading books or writing in my notebooks. I looked up at him, I believe I was around the age of eight or so, with crinkled eyebrows. He explained what it meant. But I didn't have a puzzled look on my face because I didn't understand the word, I was puzzled because he said it like he disapproved. Like it was a bad thing. My aunt, the doctor, immediately came to my defense and said, \"Janine, just tell him that you're not an introvert, you're just introspective.\" That became my motto in life. I said it often, mostly because I felt those were big words and others would think I was smart. I never thought about it much later in life until I read this book. Cain talks about the virtues of being an introvert but how society has come to prize the personality traits of the extrovert. Being a pretty extreme extrovert, at first, I didn't think this book was for me. But then I thought back to when I was eight, and realized with shock and I wasn't just a person who could be both, although I was, I am, but I went from one extreme to the other. When I was a child, I was the most introverted person I know. Using the word shy to describe me didn't cut it. I would skip class altogether if I was even a minute late, to avoid the fear of having to walk into the classroom with everyone looking at me. Speeches had me thinking thoughts of jumping out of trees just to break a bone so I could get out of giving the speech. Now, I love nothing better than walking into a room full of strange people. It's just a room full of fifty new friends! And talking in front of people? I have to hold myself back in group exercises just so I don't hog the limelight. How did such a huge change occur? I'll tell you how, because of work, school, and problems socially, I was forced into it. As I began to read this book, I saw a lot of truth in what Cain was saying. Extroverts really are prized now, not just socially but in the workplace as well. At the last company I worked for, I sat in cubicles, was encouraged constantly to hold meetings and \"group think\" up ideas. How different it would have been if I was allowed even one hour a day without interruptions! What has made us so concerned with having these qualities? I am homeschooling my children and every time I come across someone who disapproves it's always because of lack of \"socialization\". My five-year-old son has no trouble talking to anyone and being friendly, I think he gets it from me. But he also loves to play by himself. He might get this from me as well! He creates his best Lego creations when left alone for hours at a time. Why is this a bad thing? As Cain points out, some of the best innovators of our time were quiet thinkers. And we might not have had some of those great inventions or works of art had these people been forced to \"socialize\" as children instead of left alone. And really, what is the big deal with needing socialization being such a big part of schooling? Why can't it be found outside of school? I recently watched a documentary about the current school systems and, as most people know, we (The United States), rank very low in all areas of education. In fact, when American children were tested in various areas against other countries of the world, we consistently ranked on the bottom in almost all areas except one. Can you guess what it is? Self-confidence. American children are said to have the highest self-confidence compared to all other countries. How do we explain this to our children? We're idiots but we have pride! Is this because we're placing such importance on making our children extroverts? Some of the case studies Cain uses to show examples of her theories kept me riveted. She also had a twenty question test in case you weren't sure where you stood. The more traits she gave as examples of introverts and extroverts, the less sure I became of which I was. Ask anyone which I was as a child, they would have said introvert, hands down. Ask anyone I know right now, and in a second they'd say extrovert. So I took her test to see where I stood. I thought I was only doubting myself, and that it would show pretty conclusively that I was an extrovert. But in fact, I was split almost exactly down the middle. I love meeting new people, and often feel energized at the end of a big party. But I also get rejuvinated from having alone time every day. Even back in college, when I was one of the most social people around, my roomates all knew that they risked certain death if they bothered me during my \"break time\". I have no problems going to movies alone, and one of my favorite things to do is go out to lunch or dinner at a nice restaurant with a good book as a dinner companion. People look at me weird, but I could care less. Whenever I go out or have a party my motto is always \"The more the merrier\". So where did I stand on this chart? The advice for public speaking for introverts wasn't going to help me. And to say I should have quit reading the book halfway through because I considered myself an extrovert would have had me missing out on some very interesting information. I really enjoyed this book. And I disagree that this book is only for introverts. I think the biggest benefit this book had for me is the eye opener to how we have been pressured to become more extroverted over the years and how we see this change everywhere, from schools, to the workplace, to advertising, to even moralistic behavior. I think all can benefit from having a greater awareness of this personality trait in everyone they know. If you're an extrovert, wouldn't it benefit you from having a better understanding to where your introverted team leader is coming from? And another realization for me, is how I know see my son, who has the tendency to play alone. I now am more aware of how I treat him, and make sure I no longer fall into that stereotypical reaction of \"Why don't you try harder to make friends?\" routine. There's nothing wrong with being an introvert, and if this book has any major theme, that's it. That being said, even though I very much enjoyed this book, I only gave it three stars for a couple of reasons. First of all, I feel like the middle of the road people such as myself were somewhat ignored. Where do we stand? How do we relate better to people and situations? Then there were the case studies. As I mentioned earlier, they were very interesting and really helped in relating to the particular example's Cain discussed. But after a while, they became tedious, and didn't hold my attention as well as the first half of the book. I still think many can benefit from reading this though. It was fun, and I look forward to discussing it with my book club. ClassicsDefined.com ...more This is the first audiobook I have listened to in a long time and it was, in a word, amazing. First of all, as far as the audio format goes, they couldn\u2019t have chosen a better narrator. Kathe Mazur\u2019s voice fits the tone of the book perfectly\u2013quiet and measured, yet firm. I basically just want to listen to every audiobook she\u2019s ever narrated. Back to Quiet \u2013I think Susan Cain did a stellar job of exploring the introverted personality type. She sites a number of studies and scientific theories to This is the first audiobook I have listened to in a long time and it was, in a word, amazing. First of all, as far as the audio format goes, they couldn\u2019t have chosen a better narrator. Kathe Mazur\u2019s voice fits the tone of the book perfectly\u2013quiet and measured, yet firm. I basically just want to listen to every audiobook she\u2019s ever narrated. Back to Quiet \u2013I think Susan Cain did a stellar job of exploring the introverted personality type. She sites a number of studies and scientific theories to support her thesis that introversion is an undervalued trait in modern American society. Introverts have just as much to offer the world as extroverts and their unique strengths must be utilized for a society to be truly healthy. Five stars. \u2014 Kate Scott from The Best Books We Read In December: http://bookriot.com/2015/12/23/riot-r... ...more I expected to love, love, love this book. After all, psychology is one of my passions. Also, I am always interested in hearing from some group. And this is saying, \"We, the introverts, are speaking out.\" However, the book was neither as powerful nor as interesting as I was hoping. ... Cain does a great job of blending together different aspects. The three main angles she uses are: 1.) Famous people who were introverts. She usually starts her chapters with a story about a wonderful famous person we a I expected to love, love, love this book. After all, psychology is one of my passions. Also, I am always interested in hearing from some group. And this is saying, \"We, the introverts, are speaking out.\" However, the book was neither as powerful nor as interesting as I was hoping. ... Cain does a great job of blending together different aspects. The three main angles she uses are: 1.) Famous people who were introverts. She usually starts her chapters with a story about a wonderful famous person we all know and adore - and then explaining how they were introverted. Rosa Parks, Dale Carnegie, and Eleanor Roosevelt are some of the examples she used. 2.) Case studies. This is the real life introvert \"Jane Doe.\" She was on this job and thought she would have to quit because she just wasn't outgoing enough. Then she learned that being an introvert was like having a secret superpower! And then she used her introversion to overcome all obstacles! Now she's rich and/or happy. Success! 3.) Science - hard and soft. Cain uses both psychology and biology to try and explain the differences between extroverts and introverts. She also explains why introversion might be valuable in evolution and natural selection. She has a fascinating chapter on culture, which emphasizes that although extroversion is worshiped in the USA, many Asian countries value silence, reflection, and understanding over cheerfulness, enthusiasm, and talkativeness. ... This book is at it's best when Cain is exploring how introversion is a valuable and worthy trait or way of being. When she journeys into different places to see how introversion is treated differently there. When she explores how introversion can be a survival aid in the wild and how introverted people can be powerful in their own way. It's exciting and interesting to realize that extroversion - while venerated in America - is actually seen as crass and dumb in many Asian cultures. And it's fun and cool to see different theories of how introverted people and animals are strong in Darwin's theories of evolution and natural selection. I liked seeing different species and the benefits and drawbacks they experience from being extroverted or introverted. And I enjoyed seeing how introversion could be a kick-butt evolutionary trait which is often overlooked or thought to be something that needed 'killing off.' I thought about 2/3 of the book were weak, though. For instance, I already know enough about famous figures and do not particularly want or need to read a short biography or story about them. Another thing that bugged me were her \"real life introversion stories.\" Here is how an introvert struggled. Here is how he learned to embrace his true self and be happy/rich. The whole book just felt like a big pat on the back. \"Don't worry, introverts, you're okay! Everything's okay! It might seem like the world hates you, but use your strengths! You are really amazing.\" And it's not even like I DISAGREE with this message, it's simply that I was expecting more than a rather thinly-veiled self-help book. P.S. I really like the page or two that Cain dedicates to exploring Moses (an alleged introvert) and Aaron (his extroverted mouthpiece). It is also interesting when she lightly touches on whether or not the Church and modern-day Protestants shun and punish introverts as not doing the Lord's work. I like when she questions whether Jesus was an introvert or extrovert (covered in one paragraph, very shallow) and questions whether the Church is pushing an incorrect message on it's followers. (\"Real Christians proselytize! How can you be a REAL Christian if you are not gregarious?\") I also like when she uses the teachings and life of Gandhi to emphasize that passivity is NOT submissiveness. All these subjects were things I wished she'd explored in greater depth. ...more<---C>Susan Cain</---C>", "Title": "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking"},
