{"Comments": "This book has been hard-pedaled as an adult Harry Potter and it is-but with a soulless little git like Draco Malfoy as the main protagonist. Grossman doesn't get to the genuine transformative joy possible in books about other worlds and magic, the metaphorical kick one can bring to the reader. This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction,<---M> a sub-section of the reading public that</---M>, I suspect, includes the author. To be fair there are certain th This book has been hard-pedaled as an adult Harry Potter and it is-but with a soulless little git like Draco Malfoy as the main protagonist. Grossman doesn't get to the genuine transformative joy possible in books about other worlds and magic, the metaphorical kick one can bring to the reader. This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction, a sub-section of the reading public that, I suspect, includes the author. To be fair there are certain things Grossman does well. There are isolated set-pieces of violence and magical ritual gone wrong, that are thrilling, scary and visceral. He also is very clever at conveying the huge rush of empowerment a disenfranchised teen would feel when uncovering then honing magical powers. The old riff of a nobody becoming somebody is done well here, even though it\u2019s crouched in dry, clinical and mechanistic terms that undermine its effectiveness.<---F> And that\u2019s the rub here</---F>. For every scene of terror and beauty, there are two that are clumsy and lame. Grossman presents certain key plot elements so obtusely that they hit like a feather instead of a hammer. He condenses action at the wrong times, has pivotal stuff occur off-stage as it were and just doesn\u2019t deliver from page to page either on the commercial fiction scale or one grander. Traditional Fantasy Novels power(<---B>as well as their stodgy childishness</---B>) lie to a degree in their pedagogical function. They are to an extent primers for young people on how to behave, how to become a more effective human being, how to be brave in the face of adversity and to learn to be selfless on occasion even though ones adolescent genes(and jeans) are screaming for pure selfish, solipsistic, I am the center of the universe, expression. So there is a journey up Mount Doom by sad, wounded Frodo and stout, brave Sam. And Harry Potter puts his nuts on the line over and over against that nose-less wonder, Voldemort, secure in the knowledge that Ron and Hermione always have his back. They are, in the course of their journeys, becoming braver and stronger and less rooted in their myopic view of things. In Grossman\u2019s novel, the protagonist starts out as a selfish turd, segue ways to more selfish turdism, and then does a sideways double back flip into being (you guessed it) a selfish turd. This is refreshing to an extent-how like real life it is-people seldom change unless confronted by trauma or some extreme events. But in Grossman\u2019s hands it is just one more nail in the coffin, taking an eminently worthwhile premise(adult Harry Potter, twisted Narnia) and magically transforming it through bad craft into utter shit. ...more 'You can't just decide to be happy.' 'No, you can't. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want?' The answer to this, as far as <---C>Quentin Coldwater</---C> is concerned, is a resounding 'YES!' At any stage of his life. He makes Holden Caulfield look like a bundle of sunshine. He makes Charlie Brown resemble an embodiment of optimism and positivity. Eeyore the Donkey is brimming with life force compared to our perpetually unhappy hero. '...You couldn't have everything. Or at lea 'You can't just decide to be happy.' 'No, you can't. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want?' The answer to this, as far as Quentin Coldwater is concerned, is a resounding 'YES!' At any stage of his life. He makes Holden Caulfield look like a bundle of sunshine. He makes Charlie Brown resemble an embodiment of optimism and positivity. Eeyore the Donkey is brimming with life force compared to our perpetually unhappy hero. '...You couldn't have everything. Or at least the available evidence pointed overwhelmingly to that conclusion.' ... Not only will he always think of a cup as being half-empty, but he will drive himself crazy wondering who the hell drank half of it to make it so. Hand him his deepest dream on a silver platter - and five minutes later he will be whining in a decidedly disillusioned fashion about how it fails to make him happy. Disillusionment and dissatisfaction are how he operates. If ennui were to be a superpower, Quentin Coldwater would have been Superman, propelled into space by the power of his constant negativity. ... 'All of it just confirmed his belief that his real life, the life he should be living, had been mislaid through some clerical error by the cosmic bureaucracy. This couldn't be it. It had been diverted somewhere else, to somebody else, and he'd been issued this shitty substitute faux life instead.' In '<+++>The Magicians</+++>' <---A>Lev Grossman</---A> goes against the popular device of literature - the allure of wish fulfillment, the deep-rooted belief that once you find that secret place in life where you belong things will magically be alright and you will be happy. (*) (*) Granted, he goes against the literary mainstream while at the same time using the obviously commercially successful formula of a young protagonist with a newly found magical ability who suddenly finds himself in an equivalent of a British boarding school (well, in this case, a college. In Upstate New York. But it's still a British boarding school, really). (view spoiler) [If you have been living under a rock for the last couple of decades, that's Harry Potter I'm alluding to here. (hide spoiler) ] So it seems that Grossman tries to get out of mainstream while firmly staying in the commercially successful mainstream. Mmmmm-kay. Anyhow, unlike what we are supposed to expect, Quentin, miserable and disillusioned in the quasi-grown-up way that quite a few teens seem to be , does not find happiness in his unexpected admission to Brakebills, a magical college. Apparently he learns that - suprise! - you cannot just be handed happiness, that you actually need to put some effort into it, and that you can easily poison anything, even a fairy-tale, if you approach anything from the vantage point of pseudo-sophisticated negativity. 'Every ambition he'd ever had in his life had been realized the day he was admitted to Brakebills, and he was struggling to formulate a new one with any kind of practical specificity.' Actually, the aura of overly disillusioned ennui-infused pseudo-sophistication in the faux-adult way (the way that tends to overstate almost explicitly that it's SO NOT Harry Potter and the like) permeates this entire book, getting in the way of pacing, character development and ultimately many readers' enjoyment. As Quentin mechanically stumbles through his four years of quasi-British education in the self-pitying perpetually drunken haze, the plot stammers all over the place, never picking up a consistent pace, never leading to the reader actually caring about what happens to this set of miserable characters. So many situations are introduced and incompletely dealt with, without much consequence and/or resolution. So many potentially interesting storylines are never pursued further, with Grossman choosing to focus on the less exciting parts of this story. And a belated infusion of plot about three quarters into the book, after a long and befuzzling journey through Quentin's magical education, comes way overdue and at this point fails to impress and, frankly, begins to irritate. All this while Quentin, despite his apparently staggering intellect, acts like a frustratingly clueless idiot and makes you want to reach into the book and shake some sense into him. And all of this just to see him come to even greater depths of self-pity and annoying in their platitude 'revelations': 'He wasn't in a safe little story where wrongs were automatically righted; he was still in the real world, where bad bitter things happened for no reason, and people paid for things that weren't their fault.' And with this deep realization, Quentin gets this timeless piece of advice that summarizes the entire point of this story in addition to the message that things tend to suck quite badly (insert sarcasm here if you'd like): 'You found out, didn't you? There's no getting away from yourself. Not even in Fillory.' Hey, I do not mind reading about the characters who are childish and stupid and very self-centered. What I expect is that in a series of events (a.k.a. plot) they will actually grow and change and learn something - something to make me feel that it was worth reading the book for. Even Holden Caulfield seems to change and grow up a bit, despite his uber-teenageness. Quentin and his friends, on the other hand, do not appear to grow up in any way; they are contentedly stuck in the perpetual aimlessness and inflated self-pity, all while flaunting their oh-so-special disullusionment which reminds me of pointless drunk 'adult' college conversations that lead nowhere - and I'm left a bit annoyed and irritated by it all. Anyway, 2.5 stars. Not a horrible book, but not that good either. Just kinda 'meh', honestly. It left me not really caring about what happened or what will happen next - and that's not really a good sign. Quentin can brood himself into oblivion - I don't care much. 'For just one second, look at your life and see how perfect it is. Stop looking for the next secret door that is going to lead you to your real life. Stop waiting. This is it: there's nothing else. It's here, and you'd better decide to enjoy it or you're going to be miserable wherever you go, for the rest of your life, forever.' [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more If you will, for just one second, look at your life and see how perfect it is. Stop looking for the next secret door that is going to lead you to your real life. Stop waiting. This is it: there\u2019s nothing else. It\u2019s here, and you\u2019d better decide to enjoy it or you\u2019re going to be miserable wherever you go, for the rest of your life, forever.\u201d \u201cYou can\u2019t just decide to be happy.\u201d \u201cNo, you can\u2019t. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want? Do you want to be the asshole who If you will, for just one second, look at your life and see how perfect it is. Stop looking for the next secret door that is going to lead you to your real life. Stop waiting. This is it: there\u2019s nothing else. It\u2019s here, and you\u2019d better decide to enjoy it or you\u2019re going to be miserable wherever you go, for the rest of your life, forever.\u201d \u201cYou can\u2019t just decide to be happy.\u201d \u201cNo, you can\u2019t. But you can sure as hell decide to be miserable. Is that what you want? Do you want to be the asshole who went to Fillory and was miserable there? Even in Fillory? Because that\u2019s who you are right now.\" Brakebills is like Harry Potter for assholes , and to that, I say bravo because that's a fucking fantastic thing. Yes, Harry Potter was a pretty dark series by its end, but it started as a children's tale. The characters are admirable. Brave. Courageous. They are imperfect, but they're often models, paragons. Real life isn't like that. Real people are jerks, and, let's admit it, we'll do anything to get ahead. We lie. We cheat. We steal. This is the American dream, and this is what the (American) characters in this book represent. The main character in this book is a depressed, over-analytical little shit and that's just fine, because I'm a glass-half-empty kind of person, and he resonates with me. Are the main characters in this book nice people? Fuck no. Maybe that's why I like them. I'm an asshole. Let me clarify that. I'm not deliberately mean. I am not a jerk, but \"asshole\" to me, means you do what it takes to get ahead in life. It's all good to be meek, to be gentle. It's fine, but it's not going to get you anywhere in life. Studies have shown that leaders are, in fact, people who are jerks. Sure, you can be charming, charismatic, but everyone needs a little assholery in their life, however well-concealed. If you're content with normalcy and a quiet, calm life without stress? Great! Good for you. I admire you, and I say that with neither condescension nor sarcasm. But a nice, quiet life where one doesn't want to get ahead, where one doesn't feel the need to stand up for one's self is not for everyone. It's not for me. I need stress in my life. I need power. And that, my friend, is why I like the characters in this book. They're assholes, they're not perfect, they're stupid at times, they're more Slytherin than Gryffindor, and they're the symbol of 'Murica, y'all. This ain't your British boarding school. The main character in this book is a brilliant kid who stumbles (literally) into the Magical school of Brakebills. There is no magical legacy here. There are no magical families. Brakebills is effort only, talent only. Either you got magical powers or you're just a Muggle. Quentin passes the magical test (not ever having known that such a magical world existed), and is admitted into the school. Harry Potter jumped at the thought of entry into Hogwarts. Quentin: not so much . Suppose it really was a school for magic. Was it any good? What if he\u2019d stumbled into some third-tier magic college by accident? He had to think practically. He didn\u2019t want to be committing himself to some community college of sorcery when he could have Magic Harvard or whatever. Skepticism! Yeah! The characters in this book do not come from all walks of life. They're the best of the best. The cr\u00e8me de la cr\u00e8me. Throw them all together and you've got the equivalent of a bunch of pre-med studenst killing each other to get 0.1% higher in class. Quentin is fucking brilliant, the best in his school in the normal world. It's not going to matter here. \"Are you smart?\u201d There was no non-embarrassing answer to this. \u201cI guess.\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t worry about it, everybody here is. If they even brought you in for the Exam you were the smartest person in your school, teachers included. Everyone here was the cleverest little monkey in his or her particular tree. Except now we\u2019re all in one tree together. It can be a shock. Not enough coconuts to go round. You\u2019ll be dealing with your equals for the first time in your life, and your betters. You won\u2019t like it. There's no Harry and Ron and Hermione here. There is friendship, yes, but there's always a spirit of competition here, because they're all the best striving to be the best among the best. They were quiet and intense, always eyeing each other assessingly, as if they were trying to figure out who\u2014if it came right down to it\u2014would take out who in an intellectual death match. They didn\u2019t congregate overmuch\u2014they were always civil but rarely warm. They were used to competing and used to winning. In other words, they were like Quentin, and Quentin wasn\u2019t used to being around people like himself. There's not much playing, a lot of studying. Friendship does not come easily. Harry met Ron and bonded on the Hogwarts Express. It's a much bumpier road to friendship here. \u201cListen to me carefully,\u201d Fogg was saying. \u201cMost people are blind to magic. They move through a blank and empty world. They\u2019re bored with their lives, and there\u2019s nothing they can do about it. They\u2019re eaten alive by longing, and they\u2019re dead before they die. \u201cBut you live in the magical world, and it\u2019s a great gift. And if you want to get killed here, you\u2019ll find plenty of opportunities without killing each other.\u201d The magical system in ths book is mechanical, methodical. There are no muttered phrases, no cute names for spells. Instead of a visible villain like Voldemort, the evil, the terror in this book are much less visible, but by no means less effective. I've rarely read a phrase in a book that has more accurately described a feeling of a panic attack. There was something odd about the man\u2019s appearance\u2014Quentin couldn\u2019t seem to make out his face. For a second he couldn\u2019t figure out why, and then he realized it was because there was a small leafy branch in front of it that partially obscured his features. The branch came from nowhere. It was attached to nothing. It just hung there in front of the man\u2019s face. Then Professor March stopped speaking and froze in place. Alice had stopped, too. The room was silent. A chair creaked. Quentin couldn\u2019t move either. There was nothing restraining him, but the line between his brain and his body had been cut. He circled Professor March. There was something strange about the way he moved, something too fluid about his gait. When he walked into the light, Quentin saw that he wasn\u2019t quite human, or if he had been once he wasn\u2019t anymore. Below the cuffs of his white shirt his hands had three or four too many fingers. Fifteen minutes crawled by, then half an hour. Quentin couldn\u2019t turn his head, and the man moved in and out of his field of view. He puttered with Professor March\u2019s equipment. He toured the auditorium. He took out a knife and pared his fingernails. Objects stirred and shifted restlessly in place whenever he walked too near them. He picked up an iron rod from March\u2019s demonstration table and bent it like a piece of licorice. Quentin\u2019s fear came and went and came back in huge sweating rushes, crashing waves. He was sure something very bad was happening, it just wasn\u2019t clear yet exactly what. I know there are a lot of people who hated this book. 3.6 is a pretty crap rating for a book of this popularity, but I loved it, and here's why. The main character is smart, he wants to get ahead, he is pessimistic, he is a skeptic. Why is this a bad thing? What's wong with looking at everything through The world is not all rainbows and roses. We need people who see the glass as half-empty. Fantasy is great, I absolutely love Harry Potter, but there's always too much of a good thing. Main characters do not always have to be admirable. Anti-heroes are awesome, too. Selfishness, narcissism, misanthropy: these are not necessarily negative traits because they make a character human. Are you perfect? I know I'm not. I know I have my dark moments. I know that I hate people 97% of the time because humans are dumb. It's not wrong to want to get ahead in life. It's not wrong to want to be the best. The world is not a magical place. It is filled with corruption and people who will step on you if given the chance. Survival of the fittest means you have to be a jerk at times; you have to stand up for yourself. That is why I like this book. It is dark, it is pessimistic, it views fantasy and magic in a more methodical, more sensible manner. It is realistic. If you want your rainbows and magical lions that talk, go back to Narnia. I'll take my Brakebills. ...more The story of a quasi-sociopathic high school cretin who mouth-breathes his way into an exclusive fantasy club of anhedonic wizards - replete with bad writing and worse story-telling. Enjoy. I know this is a thing us bibliophiles really shouldn't say EVER, but: I think the show is way better. Don't hurt me. When I started watching the SYFY version of <+++>The Magicians</+++> and actually really liked it, I made a quick mental note to go back and read this book first before I got too far into it. Because the book can usually be relied on to be better, I wanted to experience it in written format first. In this case, though, the book makes the story more boring, the characters downright insufferabl I know this is a thing us bibliophiles really shouldn't say EVER, but: I think the show is way better. Don't hurt me. When I started watching the SYFY version of The Magicians and actually really liked it, I made a quick mental note to go back and read this book first before I got too far into it. Because the book can usually be relied on to be better, I wanted to experience it in written format first. In this case, though, the book makes the story more boring, the characters downright insufferable, and it contains less of an emotional pull . I've heard others pulling up comparisons to Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia , and I can see the obvious influence of both - a boarding school for magicians and doorways to a secret world - but The Magicians lacks the magical spark of either. In fact, it only barely feels like a fantasy novel, reminding me more of Tartt's The Secret History with a touch of magic (something that may or may not sound appealing). Actually, that description fits so right that I wonder if I stole it from someone else... Anyway, this is about a bunch of smart beyond belief characters who walk around being self-obsessed and annoying. \u201cAre you smart?\u201d There was no non-embarrassing answer to this. \u201cI guess.\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t worry about it, everybody here is. If they even brought you in for the Exam you were the smartest person in your school, teachers included.\u201d It feels like it's about pretentious people being pretentious . Don\u2019t get me wrong, I like smart characters. I like unlikable characters, even. Characters who do stupid things for stupid reasons can quickly irk me, as can self-sacrificing heroes who fail to show that people are complex, difficult and selfish at times. But I enjoy it when characters actually show me intellectual acuity and emotional maturity. I\u2019m not so convinced when page one introduces us to our characters who are pretty much the best at everything, have crazy GPAs, wealthy families, secure futures and still manage to feel so damn sorry for themselves. Let's all quote Milton and celebrate the misery of our perfect lives! In the TV show, the characters are not quite so annoying. Their intellect is quirky and charming, and their dissatisfaction with life more convincing. And - maybe because it is the nature of a TV show - it was nice to actually be shown something, rather than simply told it. The book is so self aware. So very sure of its own superiority as a \u201cliterary\u201d version of a magic school. I feel like we\u2019re rarely shown anything, just constantly told by the author how special Fillory is and how sophisticated the characters are. We are told that Quentin\u2019s intellect is virtually beyond compare, and yet he\u2019s a blubbering idiot for a lot of the novel (plus childish and lacking in any growth). Truth be told - it's boring . I'm not sure how it's possible to make a story that borrows so heavily from two of the most exciting series out there into something this tedious, but here you are! An emotionally-detached third-person narrative that instructs us in the story and characters, instead of ever weaving a compelling tale. I'll stick to the TV show. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more I have a Goordreads friend who likes this book. He expressed a thought that I might not. While not wholly correct about my take he came pretty close.: Well, first Stephen, you're right in a way, I don't like stories that are \"downers just to be downers\". The nihilistic attitude you see so often. I don't like the (as I've said before) \"life is crap and then you die\" story. So many today seem to think that for a story to have any depth it has to be deeply depressing. On the other hand if there is a I have a Goordreads friend who likes this book. He expressed a thought that I might not. While not wholly correct about my take he came pretty close.: Well, first Stephen, you're right in a way, I don't like stories that are \"downers just to be downers\". The nihilistic attitude you see so often. I don't like the (as I've said before) \"life is crap and then you die\" story. So many today seem to think that for a story to have any depth it has to be deeply depressing. On the other hand if there is a reason for the sadness in a story then it makes sense (for example Julius Winsome,( Julius Winsome ) ( https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ) one of the saddest books out there, but wonderful and highly recommended). But you were close to right about this one. It has (in my opinion) a lot of flaws. I'm sorry I feel this way for Dawn just gave it 5 stars and I agree with her on some books. So, please don't be insulted that we disagree here. I don't hate this book, but neither do I really care for it. For much of it's length it could be said that the book actually has no plot. It's a series of events in the life of Quentin and the other students at Brakebills magical college. Some books can get away with this (Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell for example) and still be excellent reads simply by dint of world building and characterization. This one sadly didn't manage it. It sort of stumbles along giving us insight into the personality of Quentin, Elliot, Janet, and Alice, which we \"do use later\" (every time I use that phrase I recall Andy Griffith using it in his \"retelling\" of Hamlet), and finally gets around to a story line maybe three quarters of the way through. The book has been compared to Harry Potter and Narnia. Well, I suppose if Harry were a selfish, snotty, creep...and Narnia had been conceived and written about by Stephen King this could be at least close to true. (Though King is a better writer.) In great part some of this book strikes me as written by someone (Lev Grossman) who wants to drag worlds where there is any hint of innocence and undiluted goodness into our tainted world and rub them down good with filth. This is a disillusioned, sad, and corrupted version of \"the magical story\". And also of magic worlds. It's not an \"adult\" take on it, it's a \"disillusioned, tainted\" take on it. It is a nihilist take on life in general told using the mode of a magic world. (view spoiler) [At one point in a discussion Quentin is told by the others he's the only one who still believes in \"magic\". They all know magic is real, but they're all disillusioned about it. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [I would have rated this book a lot lower had Quentin not had his epiphany near the end of the book. No matter where he went, he took himself with him. The world they find isn't what he carried with him from the books he'd read and it was the presence of humans that had added to the evil and rot that they found. But, in his realization of this there was at least some point to what had happened in the book. In my opinion, not much, but a little. (hide spoiler) ] I was under the impression also when I bought this book that it was one of the few to come out recently that was a stand alone novel, naive of me I admit. I see on the last page an add to watch for \"The Magic King\". I doubt I'll follow this volume up. I'm pretty sure at least I won't buy it as I did this one. So, 2 stars not one I'll reread. Finally I think (sadly) that Mr. Grossman (and possibly the audience he's attempting to appeal to) more or less sneer at the literary worlds he is supposedly giving homage to here. It put's me in mind of \"kids\" who attempt to \"ironically enjoy\" things actually sneering at them all the while. The sad part is that thinking themselves to be \"above it all\" they actually miss the joy and...yes the magic of the things at which they sneer and look down. No. I really don't care for and can't recommend this book. Barely 2 stars. ...more Quentin Coldwater is an unhappy teen, eyeing up an uncertain future in college. He's secretly in love with his friend Julia. Nothing else really matters to him except the Fillory and Further series of books he's loved since childhood. Imagine how he feels when a seamingly routine college interview drops an undiscovered Fillory book in his grasp and leads him to Brakebills, a college of wizardry, and worlds beyond... First of all, this isn't Harry Potter for adults, no matter how much people want Quentin Coldwater is an unhappy teen, eyeing up an uncertain future in college. He's secretly in love with his friend Julia. Nothing else really matters to him except the Fillory and Further series of books he's loved since childhood. Imagine how he feels when a seamingly routine college interview drops an undiscovered Fillory book in his grasp and leads him to Brakebills, a college of wizardry, and worlds beyond... First of all, this isn't Harry Potter for adults, no matter how much people want to slap that label on it. Although if you expanded that label to Harry Potter for cynical adults who've read Harry Potter and don't think it's the greatest series ever written, it would be more accurate. It has a superficial resemblance to Harry Potter in that both books involve learning to be a wizard. That's about it. Parts of it remind me of Stephen King's The Talisman, while others reminded me of Wizard of Earthsea, and the magic reminds me of Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell. In a nutshell, The Magicians depicts what would happen if regular people went to a college for wizards, complete with parties, sex, drugs, cursing, and making stupid choices. The characters make mistakes and act like normal people, not heroes. Quentin's never happy, not even in his relationship with Alice or his friendships with the other wizards. One thing that stands out in The Magicians is the magic. It's not fake latin and waving wands around. It's taxing and has consequences and learning it is extremely difficult. One character's speculation that magic might be the tools left behind after the universe was created really sticks in my mind. The back cover says it's a coming of age story. It is, and the moral of the story is Be careful what you wish for. You just might get it. ...more Pretend Harry Potter was a bit of a narcissistic douchebag, and all of his friends were whiny a-holes who drank too much. Now pretend that they crammed 5 years worth of their Hogwarts adventures into one book. Except most of the adventures are fairly mundane, with a few exceptions sprinkled here and there. Then pretend at the very end of said book, they all took a trip to a warped version of Narnia...with mixed results. Now, if you're the type of reader who absolutely has to like the main character Pretend Harry Potter was a bit of a narcissistic douchebag, and all of his friends were whiny a-holes who drank too much. Now pretend that they crammed 5 years worth of their Hogwarts adventures into one book. Except most of the adventures are fairly mundane, with a few exceptions sprinkled here and there. Then pretend at the very end of said book, they all took a trip to a warped version of Narnia...with mixed results. Now, if you're the type of reader who absolutely has to like the main character, or feels like you need to at the very least sympathize with them? Then you may want to give this one a pass. I knew going into it that this was a story populated with moody dickholes, so that part of it didn't bother me. What I didn't realize was that this was going to be a fairly random, rambling book. It just sort of goes along at its own pace, telling the story it wants to tell, without much regard to how much you want it to get to the fucking point already. The short version? Quentin finds out he's one of the elite few magicians in the world, and then embarks on a rather dull journey to find his place in the world. Ok, now having said all of that, you may be wondering why I gave this 4 stars. Well, first off, because I read the shit out of it. I can't for the life of me pinpoint why , but I didn't want to put it down. I just had to keep reading. And I had a lot of stuff to do that weekend! And, second, I really enjoyed the way the story sort of started out one way, and then ended up in a completely different spot than I thought it would. Full circle craziness! <--in the most bland way imaginable, of course. Oh, and for those of you who are wondering? Yeah, this is absolutely nothing like the television show. And by absolutely nothing I mean, duh , it has stuff in common! Hello? It's based on the books! But it looks like they took the general idea of the books and made a show out of it, instead of making a faithful rendition of the story. Anyhoo. I probably wouldn't have read this if I hadn't started binging the show on Netflix one Saturday with with my son. But after 6 or 7 episodes we were kinda burned out. It felt like a low budget show about whiners at a college for magic, and neither of us felt like pressing Next Episode . BUT . I was curious enough to see what inspired it... I'll be the first to admit this is a Not For Everyone book, but I enjoyed it. Then again, I like weird stuff... ...more I was ready to love this book, it's supposed to be Harry Potter like but more gritty, more realistic, more substantial, and I guess it is and I still like the idea of it. And yet this book did not work for me. I was really patient with it, I downplayed the initial irritation of incorporating the entire Potter premise. It's one thing to borrow bits and pieces, it's another to rip off a whole concept leaving out a few bits here and there and dressing up the rest. But since I'm a sucker for fantasy I was ready to love this book, it's supposed to be Harry Potter like but more gritty, more realistic, more substantial, and I guess it is and I still like the idea of it. And yet this book did not work for me. I was really patient with it, I downplayed the initial irritation of incorporating the entire Potter premise. It's one thing to borrow bits and pieces, it's another to rip off a whole concept leaving out a few bits here and there and dressing up the rest. But since I'm a sucker for fantasy, so I was willing to let that go. Mimicry is the highest form of flattery, right? Mimic all you want, just make the story interesting and magical. But the story... Meh. The story lacked in optimism, was devoid of magic and the main character? I tried to like him, I understood him, I did not hate him, but I never really warmed up to him or to any of the other characters either. And what Grossman was trying to get across was a bit of a downer, outwardly depressing at times. It felt like he was striving to make the book something more than a mere fantasy novel, striving to grasp a deeper truth, striving to incorporate some existentialism into the story. Whatever. It might have strived but in the end it failed. At least it failed me. I would have liked it better if Grossman got in peace with the thought that you're writing a fantasy novel, and left it at that. There's nothing wrong with fantasy, not everything has to be high lit. So Mr. Grossman if you like me for your fan, don't take yourself that seriously, throw me a bone next time and put in some magic and a few optimistic thoughts into the story. Because you had the potions and the spells and all that shit, but in the end, it did not feel magical, not to me. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) (UPDATE: After reading other reviews online, I realized that I could've made my point even more succinctly by simply saying the following: \"Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically for MFA circle-jerks who consider themselves 'above' such si (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) (UPDATE: After reading other reviews online, I realized that I could've made my point even more succinctly by simply saying the following: \"Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically for MFA circle-jerks who consider themselves 'above' such silly frippery. Yeah, that's exactly what the world needed. \" I like that review much more than my original one below, which as commenters have already noted, sounds like I didn't get the fact that Grossman deliberately ripped off the Harry Potter storyline, precisely to make the point that such a world would actually be fussy and joyless. I get that Grossman deliberately ripped off Harry Potter; my point is that he's an untalented f-cking hack for doing so, and that such a thing is profoundly offensive to those of us who are adult genre fans, and who do enjoy the Harry Potter books precisely for their sense of joy and wonder.) Regular readers know that I mostly judge books here on relative terms -- relative to the author's experience, relative to my natural interest in its subject, relative to the amount of money that was spent promoting that book. And that's why I was so excited to get my hands on Lev Grossman's The Magicians , one of the most heavily hyped books of last autumn, because it comes with an excellent pedigree: written by the main book critic for Time magazine, it is purportedly an inventive urban-fantasy tale described by many as \"Harry Potter for grown-ups\" (or technically, \"Harry Potter meets Narnia for grown-ups,\" the milieu of each taking up either half of Grossman's own novel), and with a whole series of gushing blurbs on the back cover from a whole series of impressive authors, with no less than Junot Diaz calling it \"stirring, complex and adventurous.\" (Of course, this nicely illustrates as well the inherent ethical problems with a book reviewer writing and publishing their own creative work; because who's to say that any of these quoted authors actually meant any of the praise they give, and aren't instead terrified of Grossman doing a hatchet job on their own books for refusing to play along? That's why I'm such a stickler for the idea that professional book reviewers should never, ever publish their own creative work in the field of whatever type of literature they're paid to review, and why a big red flag goes up in my head every time one of them does.) And it's for all these reasons that this book's massive shortcomings made me not just disappointed but actively infuriated; because when people say that this is \"Harry Potter for grown-ups,\" they mean that it is a literal beat-for-beat plagiaristic ripoff of the Harry Potter books , such a thoroughly naked steal of someone else's ideas that I'm legitimately surprised that JK Rowling hasn't sued Grossman back into the stone age. Don't believe me? Well, just look at the evidence -- it's about a group of teenagers who receive mysterious invitations to attend a magic school, housed in a crumbling gothic castle located several hours north of a major metropolitan area, hidden from the public by powerful illusion spells and full of delightfully quirky tics like moving staircases and disappearing doors, overseen by a wise but childlike white-bearded authority figure, who just happens to own a magical map showing the location of all residents at any given moment, where for some reason all renovations seem to have been banned somewhere around the middle of the Victorian Age, which for an equally inexplicable reason has adopted both the structure and even the terms of the British educational system despite being an American school, whose students enjoy on the weekends an intercollegiate sport that's much like the magical version of a human game, and where it turns out that spell-casting is actually a fairly tedious academic process of memorization and proper inflection. J-sus, Grossman, you untalented hack, why don't you throw in a Golden F-cking Snitch while you're at it? Now, I acknowledge that genre novels by nature are always going to share a certain amount of elements with other novels in that genre, and in fact I have no problem with that when it's done well and used merely as a starting point; for an excellent example, see Susanna Clarke's fantastic Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell , which takes a very Potteresque concept (magic actually exists in open hiding all around us) but instead does something strikingly original with the idea, creating an entire millennium-long fake history of the UK and then focusing in on the dysfunctional fuddy-duddys who are the masters of this made-up applied science. But in The Magicians , Grossman presents not even a single solitary idea that he didn't steal from someone else, essentially making the whole thing feel like the unnecessary fan-fiction product of some 17-year-old goth girl who's jealous that Rowling beat her to the punch; and while that would be fine if this actually was a piece of xeroxed fan fiction from a 17-year-old goth girl with no original ideas of her own, it's f-cking inexcusable when it's the most heavily hyped book of the year, and comes from the main book critic of Time f-cking magazine. J-sus, what a godd-mned waste of my time this derivative piece of sh-t was. F-CK YOU, LEV GROSSMAN , for stealing a week of my life that I will never get back. Out of 10: 0.0 ...more I tried. I really tried. Aside from enjoying the beginning, reading this book is like staring at a piece of cardboard for hours on end. It's just verryyyyyy dull to me and I don't care about it one bit. I may give it another chance someday, but no promises. However, I do want to give the tv series a shot, because I really didn't hate the characters or the world, I just can't get into the way they were written in this book. This was in a special category for me: books whose positive reception make me question my membership in the human race. After finishing it I stared at the glowing blurbs on the back, looked up some positive reviews online, and thought, who are these people? What could they have been thinking? How could they possibly be so different from me? After that it took a few days of solid social interaction with good friends to convince me that I actually had something in common with my fellow humans -- t This was in a special category for me: books whose positive reception make me question my membership in the human race. After finishing it I stared at the glowing blurbs on the back, looked up some positive reviews online, and thought, who are these people? What could they have been thinking? How could they possibly be so different from me? After that it took a few days of solid social interaction with good friends to convince me that I actually had something in common with my fellow humans -- that they weren't a bunch of ineffable Lovecraftian things hiding in bodies that looked like mine. (The most extreme version of this experience I've ever had was with Special Topics in Calamity Physics, a book widely praised but so staggeringly, contortedly bad that when I tried to review it, I got to 4300 words and gave up in despair because I hadn't even half exhausted all the issues I had with it.) What The Magicians very clearly wants to be is a darker, more realistic, more laddish version of Harry Potter or Narnia, combining the cutesy, whimsical worldbuilding of children's fantasy with adolescent protagonists who are horrible little shits in the way real adolescents are horrible little shits. So far, so good, I guess -- I mean it could have been a really funny parody, at least. However, Grossman isn't really going for parody. His book is rarely laugh-out-loud funny, and he seems to want the reader to feel invested in his characters and impressed with the psychological realism of his twist on the fantasy novel. Unfortunately, I was unable to rise to this task, because of the following basic fact about The Magicians: Everything in this book is determined by Grossman's desire to imitate or respond to his literary models, not by considerations of human behavior. The characters don't act the way they do because real people (or even some distorted version of real people) would act that way, but because their actions contrast with the way Grossman imagines a \"standard\" children's fantasy character would behave in the same situation. The fantasy world(s) in which the story is set do not make sense, but are supposed to be impressive simply because they are darker and grittier than their literary models. If you stop thinking of everything as a genre joke and start thinking of it as an actual story about people, it falls apart completely. This is especially bad because the Grossman yearns to be patted on the back for writing a \"realistic\" fantasy novel. But unlike, say, China Mieville, he doesn't try for realism by seriously thinking about how the darker side of human nature would play itself out in a magical world. He just takes a set of models (HP and Narnia), makes them darker and more vulgar (in implausible and nonsensical ways), and then, having conflated edginess with realism, sits back and expects us to be impressed. For the first two-thirds of the book, the primary model is Harry Potter, and the primary \"realistic\" twist is that the characters in magic school are bored . Although the main characters are all very impressed with the idea of learning magic when they first reach the magic school (which as in HP resides in a coexisting culture kept secret by magic), they quickly lose interest and start spending all of their time drinking to excess, playing pool, and bitching about people they know and the general tedium of their little lives. This is kind of a funny idea, but the transition from curiosity to indifference is not made real. The characters simply go from one pole to the other in the course of a very short number of pages (covering months of in-story time). As with everything else in the book, Grossman seems to have been so pleased with his clever twist on his literary models that he didn't think he needed to make it psychologically natural. The characters are bored, and being bored is unadmirable, and that means it's realistic -- what more psychology do you need?! The characters' incuriosity spares Grossman from having to fill in many of the details of his fantasy world -- if no one asks a question, the reader never hears its answer. Harry Potter also relies on this mechanism, but it makes much more sense there because the characters are younger. They enter magic school around age 12 -- an age when many people are still forming their basic worldviews. As a result, it's easy to imagine that they just take the existence of magic in stride, rather than going around grabbing lapels and demanding explanations. Grossman's characters, though, are 18 when the book begins, and it's difficult for me to imagine an 18-year-old who wouldn't freak out in some way when confronted with the existence of a hidden magic world. Remember, the characters are literally discovering a vast conspiracy -- wizards have been hiding magic from everyone for centuries. Why do they do it? Why don't wizards use magic to improve the world of ordinary humans? Harry Potter at least makes gestures towards answering these questions; The Magicians doesn't even do that, because the main characters -- bafflngly -- don't seem to give a shit. Grossman even goes out of his way to specify at the beginning that his protagonist, Quentin Coldwater, is a physics nerd who, at 18, is taking college-level advanced physics classes. (I was pleased to see him name-check Differential Geometry, which is exactly the sort of subject that such an advanced high school student might know a few things about.) Now, I also like physics, and if I were transported to magic land one of the things I would ask, in the course of my frantic label-grabbing question-asking \"how can this be fucking possible?\" tour, is how magic interacts with the laws of fundamental physics. I mean, physicists have developed these theories that seem to explain everything we can observe, and yet there's this extremely powerful force out there which could be harnessed by weird crusty old dudes centuries ago yet has escaped the notice of modern physics entirely? How?! Well, that's a question that Harry Potter sure isn't interested in answering, and one might hope that a book that fancies itself a grown-up HP, especially with a physics-nerd protagonist, would concern itself with it. Nope! Quentin doesn't care. He basically forgets about physics after the first few chapters. I understand that some people get less nerdy when they get to college, but come on -- at least show me the psychological process, Grossman. Later on there's a part where Quentin's studious girlfriend is working on a thesis about how to magically violate the uncertainty principle (ha!) and Quentin just thinks it's boring. Again, things work by the logic of cliches rather than the logic of psychology -- in the beginning Quentin is playing a nerd and later on he's playing a jaded college senior and his ostensible interests just adjust to fit the cliche of the moment. Why are these people so unhappy? They are in college learning a fascinating subject, their personal lives seem to involve no special difficulties above and beyond those of the average privileged college student, so where's the problem? Grossman so thoroughly fails to provide a motivation (remember, it's dark, so it must be realistic) that it starts to seem like all of the characters, and particularly Quentin, are probably just clinically depressed. This raises the question, though, of why none of them even consider this. The book covers seven years of magic school in a few hundred pages, which is a pretty remarkable span of time in which to be miserable and never ever think about why (except \"magic land didn't satisfy me like I thought it would\" -- again, good genre subversion but bad psychology -- why don't they wonder why they are unsatisfied?). The characters start out as 18-year-olds with the maturity of 14-year-olds and end up as 25-year-olds with the maturity of 14-year-olds. It's conceivable that someone could change this little in seven years, but again -- give me the damn psychology, Grossman. The only likable character in all of this is a sort of punk-ish nerd who the main characters all hate because he's really awkward, even though he spends all of his time doing interesting shit rather than drinking and bitching. Is this some kind of joke about how even in magic land (paradise for nerds?) awkward people will get treated poorly? But then we're supposed to sympathize deeply with the main characters and the difficulties they face as boring entitled assholes and I just don't get it. Where is my entry-way into these characters? I've read and enjoyed a lot of books about really awful people, but in all of those cases there was something that rang very true about the characters' particular brand of awfulness. Grossman's characters aren't awful in a way that feels real, they're just awful as a genre joke. Ha, bet you've never seen Harry Potter starring an asshole before! Nope, I haven't. But why is he an asshole? What's going on in his head? Come on, this is Creative Writing 101 stuff! In the last third of the book we switch over from Potter pastiche to Narnia pastiche and there's some metafictional stuff and a bunch of thematic stuff I would probably discuss if I cared more about what Grossman is trying to do. But I don't. His handling of his themes is so crude and inhuman that I just don't care what he's trying to say. There were a few scenes that I did really like, mostly those about elements of the fantasy world itself -- like a scene where the characters transform into birds and fly to Antarctica, or one about a powerful and sinister wizard who looks like Magritte's \"Son of Man\" painting. These scenes make me think that, ironically, Grossman would do much better if he tried to write a more ordinary, non-subversive fantasy novel. But this imaginative stuff never lasts for long, because Grossman has to keep us regularly updated on the characters' horrible lust triangles and how totally shitfaced they were last night. Blech. ...more 5.0 stars. I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS BOOK!!!! I know that not everyone agrees with this sentiment for this book, but I was greatly impressed by it. From the very beginning of this story, I got the distinct feeling that Grossman was going to be taking \"the less travelled path\" in his fantasy novel. While I have seen a lot of comparisons to other stories (some of which are quite intentional by the author) this book is certainly ITS OWN BOOK. The novel is really two very different and distinct storie 5.0 stars. I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS BOOK!!!! I know that not everyone agrees with this sentiment for this book, but I was greatly impressed by it. From the very beginning of this story, I got the distinct feeling that Grossman was going to be taking \"the less travelled path\" in his fantasy novel. While I have seen a lot of comparisons to other stories (some of which are quite intentional by the author) this book is certainly ITS OWN BOOK. The novel is really two very different and distinct stories that I thought worked together very well. The first half to two-thirds of the book is the story of Quentin Coldwater, a brilliant, angst-ridden, self-involved high school senior. Or, put another way, a pretty normal teenager that happens to be intellectually gifted. While Quentin is on his way to be interviewed for acceptance at Princeton, he is (through a series of circumstances I won't spoil) given the opportunity to enroll in a secret university that teaches magic. You can tell from that description how the Harry Potter comparisons come up. However, this \"magic\" school and the students that attend there are portrayed (quite effectively in my opinion) as the kind of personalities you would expect to find at a college campus for gifted teenagers. Common threads running through the group based on some shared intellectual capabilities, but otherwise a very eclectic group from a variety of backgrounds and all dealing with their own very real issues. In addition, the teaching of magic is shown to be a extremely difficult and an often tedious endeavor. I thought this aspect of the book was superbly done and made for compelling reading. One other interesting (to me at least) aspect of Quentin that I think bears mentioning is that he is a HUGE FANTASY FANBOY and so the discovery that magic is real makes him believe that all of his dreams are going to come true and that he is going to be able to live out the dream of being a part of a real life fantasy adventure. I can imagine their are a number of us that could relate to that. However, reality, even one with magic, is never as easy or as fun as Quentin's books make them out and so he finds himself disappointed and disillusioned a lot. In fact, his extensive knowledge of other fantasy worlds actually makes the disappointment more acute. Frankly, I don't see how it could be any other way and that this relationship to fiction and reality is one of the central themes that Grossman was exploring in this novel. Thus, I found one of the book's central messages to be that part of growing up is reconciling your childhood dreams with the realities of everyday life, AND STILL FINDING A WAY TO BE HAPPY!!! Some people found this to be a sad or depressing message, but I didn't find it that way at all. I think we all see the world differently now then we did when we were kids and that doesn't mean we are less happy. Anyway, Quentin's favorite fantasy series is about a land called Fillory which very intentionally resembles Narnia complete with siblings going through furniture to a strange land ruled by giant, god-like animals (a Ram named Ember rather than a lion named Aslan). This is important because Fillory plays a central role in the last part of the novel which I will not go into so as to avoid spoilers. I will just say that the last third of the novel becomes a fairly typical fantasy adventure in structure, but whose execution is in keeping with the tone and style of the rest of the story. In other words, Fillory is NOT YOUR PARENTS NARNIA. As with the first two thirds of the book, I found this to be well written and compelling. Overall, I can not recommend this book highly enough. I thought the writing was superb, the characters were three dimensional and very well developed and the world-building was amazing, especially in regards to how the fantastic was made to seem so real. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!! ...more Okay I am in the minority I didn't really like this book. I didn't think it was going to be a Harry Potter, as a matter of fact I knew it wouldn't be even though it was compared to HP.... the author even compared it to HP which its not. I can enjoy that this is a \"tribute\" to fantasy..... but that's about it. It was a depressing poorly written book. Details seemed to be lacking and the only details we'd get is a knock off version of another fantasy book. The characters were one sided and had no Okay I am in the minority I didn't really like this book. I didn't think it was going to be a Harry Potter, as a matter of fact I knew it wouldn't be even though it was compared to HP.... the author even compared it to HP which its not. I can enjoy that this is a \"tribute\" to fantasy..... but that's about it. It was a depressing poorly written book. Details seemed to be lacking and the only details we'd get is a knock off version of another fantasy book. The characters were one sided and had no personality, they were just a name in a book really. There was occasional swearing to make this book more adult but really it was unnecessary. Also there was a lot of breast looking and sex which didn't really add to the plot line. The writing was very poor, there was a lot of repetition to the words. Almost every sentence started with Quenten...... Quenten..... This was a very big disappointment for me because I would have thought the idea was a great one. The poor writing, and badly executed plot made it a disappointment. I think this is another case of highly publicized book that is only hype. ...more I think I'll just stick with the TV series, because this is terrible. A friend gave this book to me as a Christmas present, but the sneering reviews (on and inside the book) which compared it (oh-so-favorably) to Harry Potter/Narnia/LotR (proclaiming them \"weak\" and this strong and bracing and refreshing and...) kept repulsing me before I could even get to the first page. She's coming to visit me next month however and I'm determined to read it! Updates to follow! UPDATE 4: A miserable book about miserable people being miserable while doing miserable things written A friend gave this book to me as a Christmas present, but the sneering reviews (on and inside the book) which compared it (oh-so-favorably) to Harry Potter/Narnia/LotR (proclaiming them \"weak\" and this strong and bracing and refreshing and...) kept repulsing me before I could even get to the first page. She's coming to visit me next month however and I'm determined to read it! Updates to follow! UPDATE 4: A miserable book about miserable people being miserable while doing miserable things written by, I suspect, a very miserable man. I was also disappointed, but amused, to learn how much of the novel (especially the identity of the \"big bad\" and the fate of an oft-mentioned ancillary character) I was able to predict ahead of time, and the dialogue in the final great confrontation felt absurdly hackneyed -- especially coming from an author desperately trying to establish a narrative and style contrary to the genre he's trying to satirize/criticize/mock. You know whose story would have been far more interesting and engaging and subversive? MARTIN CHATWIN. You know whose story was a tiresome exercise in sneering banality? QUENTIN COLDWATER. UPDATE 3: This is a quick, easy read -- i think that has a lot to do with Grossman's \"tell-don't-show\" approach to writing, and the psuedo-serialized format. The characters are pretty flat, just broad generalizations (fat guy, uptight girl, mopey protagonist, smart love-interest, mohawk guy, Russian teacher, hot young teacher, etc.) and the dialog actually feels LESS realistic and MORE awkward for all the modern-day slang and profanity that's shoehorned in. The sex scenes are vague descriptions, and for that I have to admire Grossman's restraint -- after all, he's trying very hard to write for \"adults\". UPDATE 2: I think I've finally realized what this actually reminds me of. It's like a pale imitation of the graphic novel mini-series The Books of Magic by Neil Gaiman (and its subsequent, lesser follow-up serieses \"The Books of Magic\", \"The Names of Magic\" and \"The Age of Magic\".) It seems to draw a lot from \"The Books of Magic\" actually, complete with an immature (emotionally, psychologically, intellectually and physically) wizard slowly using his power to indulge his every base instinct and whim and losing touch with humanity. Sadly, there's no great sense of loss here, only a slow realization that the protagonist is as tiresome at the end as he was at the beginning. UPDATE 1: I found this line from a GoodReads review of the book and it seems to sum up what I'm feeling and what most non-hipsters felt about it: \"This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction, a sub-section of the reading public that, I suspect, includes the author.\" Grossman is a \"teller\" not a \"shower\" and as a result he's really not much of a writer. The only parts I've actually found compelling have been the brief descriptions of the natural world in Upstate New York, and that's only because I grew up there and remember the place quite clearly; I am substituting my memories for the artistry Grossman lacks. So far every character has been unpleasant and unsympathetic, no-one is really happy or even capable of feeling content, and magic is empty and apparently incapable of anything truly special. How very much like every \"profound\" novel written these days! Maybe this will appeal more to fans of Jonathan Franzen and Michael Chabon? It will certainly appeal to those readers who mistake misery and depression and nihilism for depth and insight and realism. Is the message that magic cannot make you happy, because it is merely a tool and as such simply reflects the inner character of the user? That could have been conveyed without hitting the reader quite so hard over the head with how utterly miserable everyone and everything is. Part of the problem with \"The Magicians\" is that the author clearly sees the subject matter as far beneath him, like the \"Fillory\" books which Quentin loves but others dismiss as childish and through which Grossman conveys his utter contempt for Lewis, Tolkien, Rowling, etc. and their fans; it is as though Grossman and his hipster readers are outside looking in and sharing smirking, adolescent jibes directed at the people having genuine fun inside. After all, they're too COOL to join the party. I hope things improve, but it's not much hope. ...more A quick and easy way to describe this would be to call it Harry Potter for adults. There's a magic school and a lot more sex and booze than poor old Harry ever had. But that doesn't do it justice because this was an extremely original and unique twist on the notion of what it would be like to actually live in a world where magic and fantasy realms exist. Quentin Coldwater is a bored teenager getting ready to apply for college but is already seriously disillusioned with his life and wishes things A quick and easy way to describe this would be to call it Harry Potter for adults. There's a magic school and a lot more sex and booze than poor old Harry ever had. But that doesn't do it justice because this was an extremely original and unique twist on the notion of what it would be like to actually live in a world where magic and fantasy realms exist. Quentin Coldwater is a bored teenager getting ready to apply for college but is already seriously disillusioned with his life and wishes things were more like his favorite fantasy novels set in a land called Fillory, which is essentially the author's stand-in for Narnia. However, Quentin quickly learns that he's got magical talent, and he's suddenly attending a training academy called Brakebills. Quentin is the kind of guy who after finding out he won a huge lottery would instantly start bitching about how bad the taxes will be. Even though he's always longed for a world closer to his Filory novels, he never sees the adventure he's living by learning magic and all the things that go into his training. Learning magic and even falling in love don't make him happy, and he holds onto the childish idea that there's some 'next place' that will finally make him complete. To make matters worse, once he and his friends graduate, they learn that there's no real need for magic since there are no big magical threats so they use their talents to live fat and easy while partying too much and trying to entertain themselves. Until an old classmate appears with the news that Filory is real. There's three big things at work in this book. The idea that magic is real, and the author put a great deal of effort into developing the idea of magic in the real world with specific rules. The second is that the idea of journeying to a magical land on some kind of quest would be a fun adventure is actually pretty naive when you consider how actually bloody and insane the kind of things described would be. (Think about what it would REALLY be like to have some kind of half-human/half-beast run at you with a sword.) The third (and most interesting) is that a young man with a world of possibilities in front of him would find himself disappointed with life because it isn't like an adventure story and his stubborn refusal to realize that life will never be like a fantasy novel even if he eventually makes it to an actual fantasy world. Fast-paced, funny, sometimes tragic and always entertaining, this was a book that I really enjoyed for it's offbeat way of looking at magic and fantasy stories. ...more Prepare yourselves for a rant-filled scathing review. So. Much. Hate. When I read the Martian I really never thought there would be a book I would hate more. But boy am I putting my foot in my mouth on that one! The Magicians was the winner by a landslide for The Most Obnoxious Book of the Year Award ! Congratulations, Lev Grossman! Your book fucking sucks. This book was said to be the \u201cadult version of Harry Potter.\u201d Those are some big balls you have making that claim. Especially to someone lik Prepare yourselves for a rant-filled scathing review. So. Much. Hate. When I read the Martian I really never thought there would be a book I would hate more. But boy am I putting my foot in my mouth on that one! The Magicians was the winner by a landslide for The Most Obnoxious Book of the Year Award ! Congratulations, Lev Grossman! Your book fucking sucks. This book was said to be the \u201cadult version of Harry Potter.\u201d Those are some big balls you have making that claim. Especially to someone like me. This is NOT anywhere near as good as Harry Potter. In fact, you may as well compare hippogriffs to flobberworms! I mean, seriously. The two aren't even in the same realm, let alone the same fucking genre. Everything that Harry Potter is is exactly what the Magicians isn\u2019t. Now, I can forgive the idiot who decided to use the slogan \u201cthe adult version of Harry Potter\u201d to help sell the Magicians. Clearly that person is a fucking moron who never read either book. It\u2019s ok, I\u2019ve forgiven him/her. What I can\u2019t forgive is Lev Grossman creating the most obnoxious character I have ever encountered. That\u2019s right! Step aside, Bella ! Quentin has taken your place atop the list of Most Useless Main Character! Quentin is\u2026oh dear. I am not even sure where to start. Quentin is just awful. He\u2019s plagued with self-loathing and yet so incredibly full of himself that he he\u2019s blinded by his own shit because his head is crammed up his own ass. The dumbass actually has the audacity to demean his girlfriend for cheating on him after he cheated on her. He acts as if he is completely innocent and then rips her to pieces verbally. That\u2019s just one example but my god, what the fuck is wrong with you?! Great storytelling, Lev! The only memorable moment for me throughout this heaping pile of shit book was that they got turned into geese where they flew to the south pole\u2026or was it the north? Ah, fuck it. It doesn't matter anyway because the whole storyline was pointless. Anyway, they later get turned into arctic foxes and then they fuck. The single most exciting moment in the whole entire book. But listen, this book has absolutely no point. None. Quentin figures out he is a special snowflake- shocker. And then goes to school at the Special Snowflake Academy where he learns some magic tricks. But no one knows where the magic comes from you know. Like it\u2019s apart of your being, ya know. And it\u2019s all like hipster meets grunge mentality there. Everyone is so fucking privileged but they do nothing but bitch about their parents and life. Oh. And the school? Well, that could have been interesting. But instead we get barely half of the book worth of schooling before they are all graduated and find out that their lives don\u2019t matter. They can do everything. But\u2026DUN DUN DUN! They can also do nothing ! Fascinating. No? No. I suppose you\u2019re right. I almost never tell people not to read books. But if you value your sanity I would stay far, far away from this book. What a disappointment. I will not be continuing the series. I do not care what happens to anyone in it. I don\u2019t care to see how the story progresses. I do not care one bit. So please, do not tell me how awesome the rest of them are. I will kill you lock you up in my basement and feed you to Jeff and Mr. KIng. ...more This was a difficult review to write. I was immediately drawn into Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians, but then spent most of the remainder of the book wondering why I was reading it. The several parts of the book had a schizophrenic quality which didn\u2019t always seem to have much to do with preceding sections or what came after. Still, it was well-written and I appreciated Grossman\u2019s depiction of the magical world as something other than a place of awe and wonder. His rich, spoiled mages help create so This was a difficult review to write. I was immediately drawn into Lev Grossman\u2019s The Magicians, but then spent most of the remainder of the book wondering why I was reading it. The several parts of the book had a schizophrenic quality which didn\u2019t always seem to have much to do with preceding sections or what came after. Still, it was well-written and I appreciated Grossman\u2019s depiction of the magical world as something other than a place of awe and wonder. His rich, spoiled mages help create something of a Hogwart\u2019s/Narnia mashup of Less than Zero. To escape what they come to view as meaningless existence, these mages travel to the mythical world of Fillory and become involved in a war they clearly don\u2019t understand (seemingly because they have become bored with their lives and have nothing better to do). But just when I thought it would end in this aimless fashion, a really compelling conclusion drew me back in (and beckoned me to the next book). Curse you Lev Grossman! 2.5 Stars rounded up. ...more The Magicians by Lev Grossman is one of the most frequently reviewed fantasy novels of the last few years, which isn\u2019t surprising because the author is a well known writer (and book reviewer) for TIME Magazine, and the book was very effectively hyped as \u201cHarry Potter with college age students.\u201d The end result of all of this is that lots of people who don\u2019t regularly read fantasy have picked up this novel, and many of them had their expectations severely challenged. So, is The Magicians also wort The Magicians by Lev Grossman is one of the most frequently reviewed fantasy novels of the last few years, which isn\u2019t surprising because the author is a well known writer (and book reviewer) for TIME Magazine, and the book was very effectively hyped as \u201cHarry Potter with college age students.\u201d The end result of all of this is that lots of people who don\u2019t regularly read fantasy have picked up this novel, and many of them had their expectations severely challenged. So, is The Magicians also worth the time for true-blooded, die-hard fantasy fans? In a word: yes. Read the entire review on my site Far Beyond Reality! ...more I passed on reading this book when it first came out because I was underwhelmed by the author's first book Codex. The excessively negative reviews about The Magicians peaked my interest. The complaints these reviewers had actually made me want to read the book. The positive reviews confirmed my growing suspicion that I should read this book. Although I am late to the party I must say I am glad that I overcame my initial reluctance because I loved this book. Unfortunately this book was marketed a I passed on reading this book when it first came out because I was underwhelmed by the author's first book Codex. The excessively negative reviews about The Magicians peaked my interest. The complaints these reviewers had actually made me want to read the book. The positive reviews confirmed my growing suspicion that I should read this book. Although I am late to the party I must say I am glad that I overcame my initial reluctance because I loved this book. Unfortunately this book was marketed as an adult book for Harry Potter fans. There is some truth in this marketing scheme, but too many people who are ardent Harry Potter fans are not the proper readership for this book. One reviewer said how much he despised this book, but that the \"hipsters\" would like it. What! Wait! does that mean I'm a hipster reader. I'm finally... cool. I probably just lost my hipster status using the word cool. I was afraid that this would be a year one, year two, etc. magical school book series. Not so. Grossman smokes through 5 years of Brakebills in quick order giving us highlights, but leaving a lean script that keeps the pages turning. One of my favorite scenes is when the main character Quentin Coldwater and his friends are turning into geese to fly to Brakebills South in Antarctica. \"Days, weeks, maybe months and years passed. Who knew or cared? Quentin had never experienced peace and satisfaction like this. He forgot about his human past, about Brakebills or Brooklyn. Why hang on to them? He had no name anymore. He barely had any individual identity, and he didn't want one. What good were such human artifacts? He was an animal. His job was to turn bugs and plants into muscle and fat and feathers and flight and miles logged. He served only his flock-fellows and the wind and the laws of Darwin. And he served whatever force sent him gliding along the invisible magnetic rails, always southward, down the rough, stony coast of Peru, spiny Andes on his port, the sprawling blue Pacific on his starboard. He had never been happier.\" I actually found myself really thinking about what it would be like to be a goose. Professor Mayakovsky the teacher at Brakebills South really turns boys and girls into men and women. It is the boot camp of magic. Mayakovsky sums it up to Quentin on his first day. \"You need to do more than memorize, Quentin. You must learn the principles of magic with more than your head. You must learn them with your bones, with your blood, your liver, your heart, your deek. He grabbed his crotch through his dressing gown and gave it a shake.\" Long before the reader gets to this point they will be well aware that they are not hanging out in Hogwarts, but I think this sentence illustrates the difference in approach that Grossman takes with Brakebills. Grossman doesn't shy away from Harry Potter. He actually makes a couple of references to the Hogwarts series. They are books in the evolving reality of the world he creates for this book. Our heroes, be they too human, moments of bravery wrapped around acts of cowardice finally arrive in Fillory. I was least interest in this portion of the book which makes me wonder if I will like the follow up book The Magician King. I've underestimated Grossman before so at some point I will give it a try. Most of the time I didn't even realize that I was reading a fantasy book. The characters reminded me of people that I went to college with. Grossman actually does a good job developing the characters. They are all interesting, flawed, very human characters that again made me believe in the reality of this world. I suppose because there is sex and copious alcohol consumption, although not flagrantly so, reviewers have made comparisons to Bret Easton Ellis. I will say all of the sex was in the context of the plot and even sometimes gave the plot a proper nudge. I have also seen comparisons to Donna Tartt and to me that is a closer comparison because the characters had more personality than what I experienced in Less than Zero. If you are looking for Harry Potter even an adult Harry Potter you should probably give this book a pass. If you are looking for just a damn good edgy book with well developed characters and a compelling plot than pick up a copy and start reading. Before you know it you will have consumed 100 pages and will be stealing time from the rest of your life to finish the remaining pages. ...more September 2015 Update It occurs to me that I never really wrote a proper review for this, so no time like the present, amirite? We start with millennial Quentin Coldwater who gets accepted to New York Hogwarts Brakebills College for Magical Pedagogy after passing some exhausting magical tests. Upon graduating he realizes that magic can't solve everything but it can do a lot of other cool stuff like go to Narnia Fillory, a magical land from his favorite childhood book series and play quidditch welters. September 2015 Update It occurs to me that I never really wrote a proper review for this, so no time like the present, amirite? We start with millennial Quentin Coldwater who gets accepted to New York Hogwarts Brakebills College for Magical Pedagogy after passing some exhausting magical tests. Upon graduating he realizes that magic can't solve everything but it can do a lot of other cool stuff like go to Narnia Fillory, a magical land from his favorite childhood book series and play quidditch welters. Oh and Syfy picked up the series and will premiere it sometime next year, but you can check out my review of the final book here in the mean time. Stay magical, Magicians ;-) ...more Having never heard of Lev Grossman I picked up two of his novels at the thrift store, basing solely on the premises from the back covers - Codex and The Magicians . I decided to read The Magicians first, because Grossman's first two books have both been bombs - Warp vanished without a trace, and Codex received largely negative reviews. But The Magicians was a huge success, so it couldn't be all that bad, right? After my admiration for Peter Straub's Shadowland (which deals with roughly the same t Having never heard of Lev Grossman I picked up two of his novels at the thrift store, basing solely on the premises from the back covers - Codex and The Magicians . I decided to read The Magicians first, because Grossman's first two books have both been bombs - Warp vanished without a trace, and Codex received largely negative reviews. But The Magicians was a huge success, so it couldn't be all that bad, right? After my admiration for Peter Straub's Shadowland (which deals with roughly the same topic, but is a far, far superior work) I was all set-up and full of expectations. The Magicians failed to meet any of them. I found this novel to be largely tedious and uninteresting. Here are several reasons why: 1)The incredible amount of exposition and absolute lack of detail. Grossman spends page after page TELLING how his hero, Quentin, is learning magic but he never shows it. Part of the incredible allure of fantasy novels is the detailed construction of alternate worlds/universes; there's nothing like that here. Everything is extremely flat and without any flair of ,let's say, Hogwarts; where the reader can see for himself how unique magic really is - in vivid detail. Even the Fillory books - fantasy novels which Quentin is a fan of - are special because Grossman tells us they are special. It's as he distrusted his readers and had to tell them everything - hence the reader plods on, and never cares about the characters and setting whose features and qualities are forced upon him. 2) The book is extremely DERIVATIVE. It's as if after the failure of his first two novels Grossman decided to \"borrow\" the tropes of well known fantasy works (most notably Harry Potter and Narnia) and base his story around other people's accomplishments. Consider: A group of teenagers receive invitations to attend a school of magic, which is housed in a decaying gohtic castle, located just a few hours from a major metropolitan area. The castle is hiddent from public view by powerfull illusion spells and is governed by a childlike, yet powerful white bearded authority figure, who also happens to have a magical map showing where anyone is at any given moment. The process of learning magic turns out to be mostly tedious memorizing incantations and learning proper inflection. The school adapts a British educational system and is full of quirky effects, like disappearing doors. The Fillory is a magical land entered through a clock where \"Sons and Daughters of Earth\" fight evil to become the royalty. How is it possible to steal so many ideas and not get sued? 3) The book is full of filler. Grossman clammed 5 years of magical school (4 for some) and then squeezed adventures after the school (which include travelling into the world of Fillory) on 400 pages...most of which consist of students swearing, having sex, drinking booze and acting like pricks Grossman devised them to be. But everything is touched only on the surface; there's simply no room for anything to develop. Too much is trying to go on on a space too small - and that's why there's so little detail and so much exposition. It's almost as if we were presented with a summary of Quentin's struggle through magical school and his life after it. 4)The work is extremely self-indulgent. Grossman comes from an academic family and is a Harvard alumni (where he got a degree in comparative literature), currently holding a job of a reviewer at TIME magazine. This is not a man with an original vision (how many original ideas are there in The Magicians andyway? I counted two) who chose to express it on paper; we are unfortunatelly dealing with the case of a pretentious academic who considers himself above the genre he chose to write in, and who has produced a sour and joyless (and ultimately pointless) exercise in this very genre, designed especially for people just like him. Since Less Than Zero already came out 20 years ago he decided to use storylines and themes from famous fantasy works to sell his product and disguise his lack of originality. Much of Fantasy literature is didactic in nature. Young people can learn how to be a better human being, how to be brave in face of grave danger, to appreciate frienship and learn to be selfless when the situation requires it. There is nothing to learn in The Magicians . While the disilusion in Less Than Zero worked, it doesn't work here because the protagonist is a self-pityng, self-oriented miserable teenager simply because Grossman forced him to be one. Quentin is not happy before enrolling at magical school, he's not happy at the school and he's not happy after the school. He hooks up with the hot girl, but is not happy with her so she sleeps with someone else - then he's even more not happy. Quentin starts out as a selfish bastard, migrates into an even more selfish bastard and ends up after four hundred pages - yeah, you guessed it - as a selfish bastard. Grossman never once allowes Quentin to take his head out of his (Quentin's, not Grossman's) ass to see the wonder he was allowed to experience, but instead forces him to be a smug and miserable selfish asshole to the very end, to illustrate his disilussion with the magical world because he decided that the protagonist will be disilusioned, no matter what he will see there (To his credit: he didn't even try to present much). In Grossman's world (both fantasy and magical) everything is forced upon the reader, including his message - it's rather simple, but the reader is forced to undergo great pains to arrive at the conclusion that is painfully obvious from the very beginning. If you want to be bored and depressed simply because the author bores you and tells you to be depressed, you might get something from The Magicians . If you're looking for \"realistic\" and \"adult\" protagonists who are said to posess these qualities simply because they are all selfish, drink alcohol and swear and have sex this might be your thing. If you think that the novel will offer an unique take on the loss of innocence in a magical world, you might be disappointed - our heroes could have been plumbers and hygiene technicians, and Grossman still would ram his point home. (THERE IS NO HOPE, GET IT? NONE, ZERO, NADA, WHY? BECAUSE I SAID SO!) This is a classic case of a pretentious navel-gazer, completely self-indulgent which smacks the reader in the face with its hopelesness and whining again and again and again. This emperor is naked as jay, and offers cliched insights masquerading as deeper truths covered by ideas of other (and better) authors. These insights are explored as superficially as possible, and in an adult way - with lots of booze, sex and swearing - so I sense some BIG PRIZE lurking around the corner, waiting for this very novel. After all, adults give these awards. Kids know better. ...more 2.5 stars This isn't to say I don't think this is a good book. I think it's very clever. It messes with your expectations, about everything, and because of that there were many parts I didn't actively enjoy. (I would say that I passively enjoyed it... Is that a thing?) Because of that it gets a lower rating. I do feel that this is the kind of book that can't be rated individually and instead the series should be reviewed as a whole. I will continue with this series and I'm looking forward to it. 2.5 stars This isn't to say I don't think this is a good book. I think it's very clever. It messes with your expectations, about everything, and because of that there were many parts I didn't actively enjoy. (I would say that I passively enjoyed it... Is that a thing?) Because of that it gets a lower rating. I do feel that this is the kind of book that can't be rated individually and instead the series should be reviewed as a whole. I will continue with this series and I'm looking forward to it. I have a full review coming on Monday on my channel! ...more This book was the worst book to read/listen to while I was extremely busy. All I wanted to do was get back in the car, take a walk, workout (yeah right), clean, etc. Anything to get back to my audiobook. The best sign of a good audiobook is how much I put aside my visualbook to listen. And the craziest part is that when I start to explain the book, I find myself wondering, How could I possibly like this book? The main characters are the biggest, self-obsessed, pricks I've probably ever read about. This book was the worst book to read/listen to while I was extremely busy. All I wanted to do was get back in the car, take a walk, workout (yeah right), clean, etc. Anything to get back to my audiobook. The best sign of a good audiobook is how much I put aside my visualbook to listen. And the craziest part is that when I start to explain the book, I find myself wondering, How could I possibly like this book? The main characters are the biggest, self-obsessed, pricks I've probably ever read about. They're able to harness vast amounts of magical power and what does it do? ...it makes them even more depressed. They're pretentious, they're snobs, and I freaking loved them ... while I hated myself. Or maybe that was just the book projecting on me. Quentin, and like always you'll have to excuse spelling with audio-reviews, is just about to go to his interview for Harvard when he finds the interviewer dead. Mysterious circumstances occur and there's really only one explanation ... but it couldn't be that. Quickly Quentin finds himself in a test that's unlike anything he's ever done before. The classroom is typical and so are the chairs, but the test itself ... keeps changing based on his answers. In a mix between Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia, Lev Grossman takes a post-modern look at both through the eyes of cynical geniuses. Although it's a more adult Potter and Narnia with a healthy dose of sex and profanity. Harry Potter is even mentioned multiple times and part of the brilliance of this book is that commentary on other, almost-contemporaneous works. It takes a look at a real person going through similar events while still unbelieving of the whole process. Narnia, however, is not mentioned (for good measure) and I don't want to get too much into this because it's a bit spoilery to even mention it (even though there's a picture of Fillory on the book I've seen). Quentin is obsessed with the magical land of Fillory, which closely resembles the general themes and events of The Chronicles of Narnia. I've read a number of reviews that mention that Grossman hates Narnia, but I didn't really get that impression. I got that he was less than impressed with religion, but this book is somewhat of a tribute to Narnia so I had a hard time believing the Narnia hate. The argument toward religion I'll visit in a spoiler tag. (view spoiler) [In the end when they encounter Ember and then proceed to whine and complain about his actions (at least that's what it sounded like), it seemed to undercut the whole argument. They were completely disrespectful to this psuedo-God in addition to the arguments being more whining (without counter-argument) than actual argument. These pretentious jerks who are given everything and yet can't find happiness and can't seem to understand why this God didn't act how they expected. But maybe that's the point that these characters who are just about all-powerful should be able to understand someone who is also all-powerful but something is missing. I understand if you stopped reading well before this point. :) (hide spoiler) ] Quentin does have some redeeming qualities and he's the one we follow and there are some other characters that are definitely less douchebaggy so I'm sorry if I've given the completely wrong impression. It also didn't really have a huge effect on my reading enjoyment either. I was so captivated by the world, especially the school and the magic at first that it wasn't until later that I realized I didn't absolutely love these characters, which could be a first for me. This book was a blast to read, I seriously couldn't put it down. The narrator, Mark Bramhall was excellent. He pulled off everything superbly and there was a lot of cynicism and sarcasm to perform. So what I'm saying is, don't read this book if you're busy. Read it on vacation or if you have some time off coming up. You won't even need a whole day though. 4.5 out of 5 Stars (very highly recommended) ...more I can honestly say that I haven't read a book with characters this self-involved, self-aggrandizing, and self-important in, well, ever. This book and all of its contents were wholly insufferable. Not only was it a blatant rip off of other notable books, but it was completely shameless in its theft. I hated everything about this book. I read another review where the reviewer says the following: Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically I can honestly say that I haven't read a book with characters this self-involved, self-aggrandizing, and self-important in, well, ever. This book and all of its contents were wholly insufferable. Not only was it a blatant rip off of other notable books, but it was completely shameless in its theft. I hated everything about this book. I read another review where the reviewer says the following: Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically for MFA circle-jerks who consider themselves 'above' such silly frippery. Yeah, that's exactly what the world needed. I couldn't agree more. When this book was recommended to me by one of my friends, I immediately requested the audiobook from my local library. That was about 4 months ago. When it was my turn to have at it, I couldn't wait to read a book that lived up to the hype from the notable authors quoted on the cover. What I wasn't expecting was such an exercise in how to be a twat. It is like each character evolved out of some prep school kid's fantasy world. And not just any prep school kid, the most spoiled, obnoxious, pretentious kid in the world. The type of kid that I would never want to talk to at a party. The assholes of society. Quentin was completely unredeemable, IMO. He thinks he is the only person who is suffering the pains of being wealthy, extremely smart, and with every privilege in the world. The girl he likes doesn't like him back! He never got to interview for Princeton! His parents are cretins who bore him to tears! He isn't the best at everything, just close! What a terrible life he leads. We should all pity him. I was hoping that Quentin made a turn around during the book, but he DOESN'T. In fact, each character in the book is more irritating and horrible than the last. They all feed off of each other and it got to be almost suffocating. The arrogance... it choked me. Aside from the truly loathsome characters, the book is just not written well. Let's ignore the fact that this book \"borrows\" heavily from others in its genre (but honestly, how can we ignore that????), but it completely lacks in atmosphere. Quentin gets to the school and there are VERY few details from there. Where are the descriptions of the classes, other than to complain about the reading in 1,000 languages? What's the point of everything? Why is nothing explained? There is just boring scene after boring scene with lots of time jumps and prose that is mind-numbingly showy. However, I think the worst crime of all was that this book was not fun to read. At all. It was a magic book with no magic, a book about growing up with no growth, and a book about fantasy with no imagination. That's it, I'm out. DNF at 65%. ...more If you write enough book reviews, eventually you start sounding like everyone you never wanted to be. Today, I'll be the annoying guy who brags about how he saw everything coming. That's right, I found this book utterly predictable from start to finish. Even the Arctic fox sex scene. The Magicians is a very postmodern type of fantasy, deconstructing as it does the Narnian-style childhood fantasy of saving the world. It's one of those curiously self-aware books that nevertheless stays firmly on th If you write enough book reviews, eventually you start sounding like everyone you never wanted to be. Today, I'll be the annoying guy who brags about how he saw everything coming. That's right, I found this book utterly predictable from start to finish. Even the Arctic fox sex scene. The Magicians is a very postmodern type of fantasy, deconstructing as it does the Narnian-style childhood fantasy of saving the world. It's one of those curiously self-aware books that nevertheless stays firmly on the other side of the fourth wall. It is meta . And with this comes a sort of candour necessarily absent from actual epic fantasy. This xkcd comic communicates the gist of The Magicians ' theme if you're not yet inclined to read the entire book. As far as this commentary on fantasy goes, The Magicians works. This is something that most people recognize, if only subconsciously. It may sound heroic to fantasize about killing monsters and enemies with a sword and magical spell. Yet in reality, killing, as war movies are so eager to drive home, is rarely glamorous. The Magicians is not \"magic realism\" so much as \"magic hyperrealism.\" There's more here than magic, though. Quentin finds himself a licensed magician at 21, set adrift in the world to make his own way and find a life worth living. As a university student, I'm acquainted with the notion that I'll put my five years into schooling, graduate, get a job, and that's my life. I'm also aware that, in all likelihood, it won't work out so smoothly and discretely. Instead, I'm going to have to make plenty of choices, plenty of compromises, and plenty of mistakes; if I persevere, I might find happiness. Quentin's problem is the paradoxical nature of being a magician: so much power, yet so little to do with the power. It's mirrored in the psychological fragility conferred upon any child who saves the world: what do you do if you've hit the epitome of your existence by 20? There is one respect, however, in which I think Grossman drops the ball. He does a fine job analyzing fantasy itself, but he fails to go further and identify anything in contemporary society that drives our desire for escapist-yet-illogical worlds. He skirts close to this topic on numerous occasions but never embraces it. In fact, the parts of The Magicians grounded in reality are, upon closer inspection, hazy. Quentin's parents are little more than abstractions. I think they have only three lines of dialogue in the entire text. Otherwise, we learn about them only from what the limited third person narrator says Quentin thinks about them. Such paltry characterization irked me while reading the book and continues to irk me, and it's a perfect example of how Grossman neglects the \"real world\" portion of The Magicians even when it may be the most important part. We're supposed to get the idea that Quentin feels unchallenged in school, neglected or ignored by his parents, and generally unhappy\u2014but we only know this because we're told ; Grossman never really shows us what's so boring about Quentin's life. What I desire, and what The Magicians fails to provide, is a look at the social origin of the individual's obsession with escapist fantasy. It's not enough to simply start with the loner, imaginative archetype we see in Quentin and go from there; that's begging the question. After all, this entire book is about not taking fantasy worlds at face value, but it's asking us to take the origins of the desire for those worlds at face value. There's also quite a few loose ends here. Far be it from me to insist that a book tediously explain every plot point! Yet I'm not satisfied with Julia's appearances\u2014she just happens to have her life sent out of control by being rejected from Brakebills? Why? What exactly does she hope to gain by confronting Quentin? Most importantly, how did she end up finding Janet, Eliot, and Josh? Likewise, Dean Fogg's relationship with the world of Fillory is never made clear. Most of the magical community perceives Fillory as just another fictitious world. Yet Fogg recognizes the \"woman with the braids,\" as Quentin describes her, who is inextricably connected to the Fillory tale. When the loose ends do get resolved, Grossman tends to tie them up in a neat way. As I intimated at the beginning of the review, this leads to a certain amount of predictability: the identity of Emma Greenstreet's lovers, the identity of the woman with the braids, the fate of Quentin and Alice's relationship, etc. There are times when a book is so well constructed that its predictability doesn't matter; merely watching the events fall into place is a beautiful thing. The Magicians is not so carefully constructed, unfortunately; I would have preferred to be surprised. For a book that is both fantasy and about fantasy, it's that lack of literary magic that prevents me from embracing The Magicians as a great work. It's competent, even interesting, but many of the seams still show. It's a shame, too, because Grossman has a flair for fun dialogue and a knack for well-placed expletives. Above all, what's needed is better characterization. Good characters are the glue that binds together the plot and the meta-fictional commentary. Unlike Douglas Coupland , Lev Grossman doesn't manage to create a cast of characters who are believable , albeit not probable . With The Magicians , there's too much smoke and not enough mirrors. My reviews of The Magicians series: The Magician King \u2192 ...more I feel like this book has too many tropes and cliche of all the mainstream fantasy books all wrapped up in one. I hope maybe the sequel will be better. Overall, the book was not worth the time to read it. First, the author comes from this high New York mind set that only New Yorkers are better than others, even better, add both Harvard and Yale into the mix. (one of the reason the New York Times and the media love this book) To me what I hate most about this book is that he had to copy from Harr I feel like this book has too many tropes and cliche of all the mainstream fantasy books all wrapped up in one. I hope maybe the sequel will be better. Overall, the book was not worth the time to read it. First, the author comes from this high New York mind set that only New Yorkers are better than others, even better, add both Harvard and Yale into the mix. (one of the reason the New York Times and the media love this book) To me what I hate most about this book is that he had to copy from Harry Potter and the Chronicles of Narina mixed with Ender's Game, and does it at a mediocre level at the best. I feel like the world was not immersive world. The character of Quentin feels like dry, dull, and emo as he is willing to go alone with everything without questioning anything. Overall I think he was trying to write something fantasy that was more literary for adults based on the main stream fantasy, and his own background. Anybody who likes good epic fantasy would hate this book. So basically stay away from this book, run away from it, but it is a good book for discussion. ...more People love describing one thing as the adult version of another thing. For example, Foucault's Pendulum is like The Da Vinci Code for adults. The allure of this kind of comparison is at least threefold: 1) it offers a simple way to draw people in, by playing on their affection for another work; 2) it leverages against the desire to take in a more mature version of something they already like; and 3) it derides the value of the other, presumably-enjoyed work. People love to dismiss especially po People love describing one thing as the adult version of another thing. For example, Foucault's Pendulum is like The Da Vinci Code for adults. The allure of this kind of comparison is at least threefold: 1) it offers a simple way to draw people in, by playing on their affection for another work; 2) it leverages against the desire to take in a more mature version of something they already like; and 3) it derides the value of the other, presumably-enjoyed work. People love to dismiss especially popular works as being childish or inane. (One would think we would overcome that need in junior high, but generally speaking, we do not.) In any case, I like many others am tempted to describe Lev Grossman's The Magicians as Harry Potter for adults. Yet do so without the condescension. In many ways the comparison really is apt. For one, there's plenty of magic and plenty of gratuitous nudity. There's a school for witchcraft and wizardry, but its a college. The students lounge around in their free time doing off-handed magics and getting colossally drunk. So, Harry Potter but for adults? Sort of, I guess. But Grossman's novel is really quite a bit more. Through a thoroughly secular treatment of the Narnian-style of fantasy worlds, Grossman unveils a story that's less about fantasy and wonder and exploring the hidden worlds that hide beneath our noses and more about the growth of human character and the obstacles that threaten to halt that growth entirely. The Magicians is, essentially, an amusingly framed bildungsroman, exploring the life and maturation of Quentin Coldwater, a young man who has just discovered that magic is as real as DNA and has been enrolled in a private college devoted to its study. For Quentin, this is an especially notable discovery, as he had always suspected magic was indeed real. As a child, he had read and absorbed the Fillory novels, Grossman's fictional answer to Lewis' Narnia. In The Magicians , the Fillory novels were a series of five books written in the twenties that charted the exploratory paths of the Chatwin children, as they flit between our world and Fillory in similar fashion to how Lewis has the Pevensies occasionally visit Narnia. Yet for Quentin, they set a seed in his mind and even at age seventeen and considering which Ivy League school to attend, he's still checking the backs of cabinets for passages into lands beyond reason. As one may presume when confronted by a character who desperately seeks a world of fantasy, Quentin is thoroughly unhappy. Though set with a future that by all conventional wisdom should be regarded as stellar, Quentin is discouraged by how desaturated the world is to his eyes. There is no joy in his accomplishments, in his talents, or in his future at Yale or Harvard or whichever school of excellence he's destined to attend. There are only two things he wants: a romance with his friend Julie and Fillory. Both are fantasies (Julie is currently with his best friend James and Fillory is the invention of a children's adventure novel) and so we get a taste immediately for Quentin's brand of dissatisfaction. At heart, The Magicians is a reflection on how we deal with depression. And the way we, as a culture (an American culture at any rate), deal with depression is to indulge in the fantasy that depression is not the correct way to understand the world. Grossman grants this and embraces it by having Quentin give up depression for Fantasy (for so long as it holds). The book struggles admirably with the reasonableness of being bored or disgusted by the world. In that sense, yes, The Magicians really is kind of like Harry Potter for adults\u2014if only because children rarely have the context by which to understand Quentin's struggles. ...more Maybe a fungus. Yeah: it grew on me like a fungus. Read mark: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read Kelly: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read Khanh: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read me: I had fun. I think the author and his doppelg\u00e4nger MC have issues. The writing is pretty good, and the universe produced by Mr. Grossman's various preoccupations is compelling. My cousin thought it was boring as fuck, though\u2014and I think it's because you have to be a certain kind of Ameri Maybe a fungus. Yeah: it grew on me like a fungus. Read mark: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read Kelly: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read Khanh: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Read me: I had fun. I think the author and his doppelg\u00e4nger MC have issues. The writing is pretty good, and the universe produced by Mr. Grossman's various preoccupations is compelling. My cousin thought it was boring as fuck, though\u2014and I think it's because you have to be a certain kind of American fantasy nerd to see how the author is mischievously strumming the tropey fantasy strings to be engaged long enough for the mostly unlikeable characters to grow on you. As would a kind of lichen, perhaps. Or moss. I gave this five stars when I finished it; two after I thought about it a bit; three when I read other reviews; and now four three again, now that I've had a chance to sort out which is worth more: the author's neuroses, or the story made possible by them. It's a mix, but I'm leaning towards the latter. Give it a go. ...more", "Title": "The Magicians"},
