{"Comments": "I give up.<---F> I just can't take it</---F>. When your back starts to hurt because you're trying to drag your eyes across the heavy pages of a non-event insipid book like this one, it's time to call it quits. Like, forever. I don't know how many times,<---M> while I was reading this</---M>, that I ended up staring into space and only realizing that I was after ten or so minutes had passed and the book fell out of my hand. I was so uninterested in this story that I began to daydream about exponentials and I started to not I give up. I just can't take it. When your back starts to hurt because you're trying to drag your eyes across the heavy pages of a non-event insipid book like this one, it's time to call it quits. Like, forever. I don't know how many times, while I was reading this, that I ended up staring into space and only realizing that I was after ten or so minutes had passed and the book fell out of my hand. I was so uninterested in this story that I began to daydream about exponentials and I started to notice the wisps of dog hair on the hardwood floor. Nothing happens in this book. Nothing. Literally, nothing. Everybody is going around their daily lives without any kind of issue; the only one who has an actual problem is Donia, but she was so dull I started skipping chapters whenever her name appeared under the nonsensical quotation. I just don't give a shit what happens to any of the characters. Seth is a goth; so what? <---C>Aislinn</---C> sees faeries; so what? Keenan wants a Summer Queen; so the fuck what? The main plot of this book was basically just all the characters trying not to sleep with each other. It's not hard, people, and it's also not interesting to anybody who isn't there. Reading this book was like sitting at the back of the school bus while everybody talks about how they went to a party at the weekend and this person was rumored to have boned this person, but when you go and actually ask whoever it was whose name was inserted into Generic Party Event Template they tell you they either didn't go to the party or their parents were there and everyone spent the night playing checkers . It's not like the actual personalities of the characters are at all interesting, either. Aislinn has no interest in the world outside her own arse and it shows when she spends a minimal amount of time talking about normal stuff normal people talk about, but instead waxes on and on about how the fey are after her even though they never physically harm her in any way. If she's so desperate to be normal, why doesn't she actually TRY to achieve such a goal? Sorry, but if a heroine is going to appeal to me, she needs to a) not be a Mary-Sue, b) have a significantly larger emotional range than a sesame seed, c) and do something other than lie around complaining about her lot. Ever Bloom, I'm looking right at you. The writing wasn't terrible; that's pretty much what the one star covers. Of course, there was the whole 'WTF?' thrown in there that made me want to vomit into my hair, but other than that, there wasn't anything too dreadful about Mel's prose. Did I finish characterization? No? Oh, then on to Seth, and the fact that at eighteen he's had sex with so many people he actually attends a clinic and has to produce paperwork to prove he's not carrying any STDs. Seth also lives in this unrealistic fairy tale setting - in a train car (<---B>I think. I haven't read this in a while</---B>) with a snake and a bunch of tats and piercings and having wild parties every night alongside both humans and fae. Wow! Could Seth be any cooler? Oh, he could. In fact, Seth is such a wet lump of charcoal that I couldn't take this Goth image as anything other than a pose or this lame book's attempt at distancing itself from the whole dreadful floppy-haired prep situation that's been sniffing around suspiciously in the YA section of late. Give me quirky characters any day of the week, but having a character composed entirely of forced quirks and living a life that is simply unfeasible is a really good way to smack your reader about the head with a baseball bat labelled, \"I'M TRYING EXTREMELY, ALMOST PERVERSELY HARD!\" Remember the movie Juno ? Where everybody talks and acts so unrealistically? That's what this book is like, and especially when Aislinn is around Seth. And I won't wax about their romance, because there's nothing to wax about - I just didn't care about it. Aislinn may as well have just dated herself because Seth has absolutely no personality. He doesn't speak in a certain way, has no interesting mannerisms, and really, he's just there to be a pillar to which Aislinn talks about her problems. And she talks about her problems a lot. A LOT. Okay, so...Seth? Sorry, but no. This was a total fail. Seth fits in just perfectly with the floppy-haired preps in terms of total and utter personality lackage and a terrible attempt at being limply sexy. Oh, and then there was Beira, the useless villain with no motivation. Need I even bother saying more? Beira is pointless. Yeah, okay, she says some mildly rude things (no ruder than the things I say on a daily basis) and lies around on a couch, and we're expected to cower away from her as if she's any more intimidating than the Bad Pony? No. Just no. She's pathetic. I would have laughed at her had I not been so deathly bored. I would also have laughed at Keenan, except laughing at him would require wasting brain space thinking about him, so I won't go there. Really, the less said about the whole Summer Queen and staff and Winter Girl thing the better. That's another thing about this book. It makes absolutely no sense. I had no idea what was going on, and I gave up on page 205. Not an early bow-out. I get that Keenan wanted a Summer Queen, and that something happened to his father, and Beira is somehow more powerful, and there was something to do with touching a staff amid lots of faery sex, but really, that's as far as it got. I had some vague inclination that Aislinn was THE ONE but what she was THE ONE of and where it would go if she gave in to being THE ONE was all kind of a grey area for me. So, a summary? I thank all the gods of the earth and sun that I resisted buying this utter bollocks and libraried it. I'm actually not shitting you. To spend money on this would be to punch myself in the face repeatedly until I suffered massive brain damage and was no longer able to read and therefore suffer this tripe. In short: This book blows. ...more Readable but bland. Most of my dissatisfaction with this book stems from the fact that what passes for a plot with <+++>Wicked Lovely</+++> would have been used as a sub-plot in any other. It can be summarised like this: KEENAN: [gives Aislinn a choice between two options] AISLINN: [flees] SETH: [waits for Aislinn] KEENAN: [waits for Aislinn] DONIA: [waits for Aislinn] BEIRA: [issues occasional Ursula-like threats] AISLINN: AISLINN: AISLINN: [makes choice] BOOK: [ends] So the entire book revolves around Aislinn, which Readable but bland. Most of my dissatisfaction with this book stems from the fact that what passes for a plot with <+++>Wicked Lovely</+++> would have been used as a sub-plot in any other. It can be summarised like this: KEENAN: [gives Aislinn a choice between two options] AISLINN: [flees] SETH: [waits for Aislinn] KEENAN: [waits for Aislinn] DONIA: [waits for Aislinn] BEIRA: [issues occasional Ursula-like threats] AISLINN: AISLINN: AISLINN: [makes choice] BOOK: [ends] So the entire book revolves around Aislinn, which could have been interesting if Aislinn's interactions showed the slightest spark. But no. Towards the end, it feels as if other characters start kicking her towards character development because she's not going there by herself. There's also the fact that Seth was a cardboard-prop boyfriend with tattoos. If he were secretly an interesting character made one-dimensional by love for Aislinn, I would be fine with it (well, okay, I wouldn't, but I would be more willing to adjust to that than I am to Seth as he is now). But in every scene, he's doing something to help Aislinn, or that revolves around Aislinn. There's not even a hint that he ever does anything else -- or that this is wrong. Seth would make a wonderful RL boyfriend, but in fiction, he is extremely boring. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 3.5 stars The first time I read WICKED LOVELY by <---A>Melissa Marr</---A> I did not like it. It was too dark. I was too young to catch the deeper connotations that Marr was communicating. If it hadn't been published in that weird in between time when I was pretty current on all the interesting series in my preferred genres (and therefore desperate for reading material), I probably never would've read the second book. But it was, and I did . . . And it remains my favorite YA series abo Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 3.5 stars The first time I read WICKED LOVELY by Melissa Marr I did not like it. It was too dark. I was too young to catch the deeper connotations that Marr was communicating. If it hadn't been published in that weird in between time when I was pretty current on all the interesting series in my preferred genres (and therefore desperate for reading material), I probably never would've read the second book. But it was, and I did . . . And it remains my favorite YA series about Fae. Aislinn, like all of her female ancestors, has the Sight. She can see through faery glamour, magic used to either make the Fae invisible to humans entirely or to make them appear to be human themselves. There are many rules her grandmother taught her to ensure her safety, but they're all extensions of a single concept: keep the secret. Faeries don't want to be seen, and if they discover a human who can see them that human will be lucky to simply have their eyes gouged out. Like I said. Dark. But that by itself isn't unusual . . . and I love Fae, sooooo . . . what was my problem? This time around, I finally figured it out. B/c despite improving with the reread, I enjoyed it for the authenticity, for the underlying message I had previously overlooked, for the anticipation of what I know will come next . . . not for this story. Not for these characters. Aislinn and Keenan . . . Not a huge fan of either of them at this point. Donia, yes. Niall, also yes, but not nearly as much as I will in INK EXCHANGE. Seth . . . meh. For now, at least. Part of my dislike of the main characters (Aislinn and Keenan) is superficial--I don't like their names. #sorrynotsorry Maybe you can completely overlook MEH to blergh names, but I can't. A rose by any other name and all that. By itself that would never be enough to make me turn my nose up at a book, but when I have other issues with those same characters . . . it compounds. And with Keenan, especially . . . He embodies the capriciousness that categorizes the Fae, but he lacks the whimsicality, the charisma, that endears the \"good\" version of Fae to me. Instead of liking him for his Faeness, I was irritated by his narcissism. There wasn't anything specific about Aislinn that I that disliked, but there wasn't anything I did particularly like either. As for Seth . . . I'm not even remotely attracted to this incarnation. I got over my fascination with \u00fcber pierced Bad Boys who may or may not have a pet snake (*rolls eyes*) when I was in high school. BUT. Marr is a true scholar when it comes to fairy folklore, and the aforementioned authenticity is fantastic. It's not limited to the physical descriptions of various types of Fae, she weaves the rules for dealing with Fae, the practices, the consequences, the temperaments (Keenan excluded), ultimately creating a captivating Fae world overlapping our own. This setting, the WICKED LOVELY world, is so well-established in this first installment that, in hindsight, it's not at all surprising given new main characters, I loved the next book. Beyond that, Marr gives us a heroine who despite being backed into a corner, despite escaping the Fae free and clear being an impossibility, grabs the reins of her power, making the best of a situation she wants no part of, but can't escape. Aislinn accepts the world as it is and makes it work for her. I may not have connected with her, but I respected her. SO. While I consider this first installment to be significantly weaker than those that follow, it isn't terrible, and I still highly recommend it to anyone who loves the Fae. ...more I liked this book a lot more than I thought I would. I mean, usually when a book is hyped up a lot my immediate reaction is to roll my eyes and wonder if it's worth the hype (I didn't start reading the Harry Potter series until the third one was already out - and then I read them all in one sitting). So, I'm a book-cynic and was worried that I would mind-trash this baby. Ok, first of all -- the most gorgeous cover ever. Provocative, beautiful, and... well, well done Harper Collins. Here's the th I liked this book a lot more than I thought I would. I mean, usually when a book is hyped up a lot my immediate reaction is to roll my eyes and wonder if it's worth the hype (I didn't start reading the Harry Potter series until the third one was already out - and then I read them all in one sitting). So, I'm a book-cynic and was worried that I would mind-trash this baby. Ok, first of all -- the most gorgeous cover ever. Provocative, beautiful, and... well, well done Harper Collins. Here's the thing about the writing, I felt like this was a good book. I really enjoyed it, i got caught up on it. I liked the concept a lot... it just felt like it could've used one more polish... if that makes sense? Some of the sections feel disjointed from one another, just in terms of narrative. I absolutely love how the main character avoids the fey, but then suddenly it's a huge about-face that I didn't quite follow with her. I also thought that the relationship between her and the two male characters was interesting but.... I wanted to fall more in love with the King and instead.... I dunno. I liked the human boy more. And that colored how I was reading the rest of the book, I wanted her to have to struggle more -- but she didn't, but neither did I? So, here's my rec'd, since I saw a god-awful one in VOYA of this book: I'd buy it. I'd read it. I think this author is only going to get better and better, so I'm looking forward to the next book on your pub-list. But if you have a huge history of reading faery books -- this one might not be your favorite. ...more Oy vie! What a horrible book. I decided to change it's title to \"Beautiful and Vapid Hormones\" Melissa Marr held so much promise for a feisty female protagonist, willing to fight the allure of immortal beauty and power for our mundane yet necessary mortality. Sadly, Aislinn (the main character) faded into nothingness in the last few chapters. It seemed as though Marr couldn't sacrifice either of the two worlds for her Aislinn and so gave her both, which in my opinion, gives her nothing. Life dem Oy vie! What a horrible book. I decided to change it's title to \"Beautiful and Vapid Hormones\" Melissa Marr held so much promise for a feisty female protagonist, willing to fight the allure of immortal beauty and power for our mundane yet necessary mortality. Sadly, Aislinn (the main character) faded into nothingness in the last few chapters. It seemed as though Marr couldn't sacrifice either of the two worlds for her Aislinn and so gave her both, which in my opinion, gives her nothing. Life demands sacrifice for true happiness. Hormones ruled, not love or the quest for right, just penises and breasts, sorry to be so blunt, but it's too true. I'm thoroughly disappointed. Perhaps if the story started the way it began I wouldn't be so upset. But Marr set a beautiful stage, perfect characters with bright promises of illuminating lives. It's as if Marr put all her energy and wit into the first act. It was perfectly coordinated, hopeful lives waiting for tough decisions to show their true beauty and strength. The happy ending never came because as the curtain ascended to reveal the last act the actors, once graceful and awe-inspiring, crashed into each other, tripped, pulled down the beautiful set, ripped their glittering costumes, shouted profanities and uncovered their base savage hormones. I hope Ms. Marr becomes a great author she has it in her, but she needs to learn, as we all do, that life is lived beyond physical desire, in what we sacrifice for others and ourselves to gain wisdom and love. ...more Well guys, for over a year I had a review of this. I gave this book 1 star, so to say the least, my review was not positive. But see, I got tired of constantly having to delete all the \"troll-screaming\" comments, so I ultimately removed the review. The reason I didn't like this book is because it was one of the first YA titles I ever read, and I was really put off by the content. That's my prerogative. I know that probably sounds like a revolutionary concept, but whatever. If you are curious about Well guys, for over a year I had a review of this. I gave this book 1 star, so to say the least, my review was not positive. But see, I got tired of constantly having to delete all the \"troll-screaming\" comments, so I ultimately removed the review. The reason I didn't like this book is because it was one of the first YA titles I ever read, and I was really put off by the content. That's my prerogative. I know that probably sounds like a revolutionary concept, but whatever. If you are curious about the book, I'll refer you here: http://sites.google.com/site/parental... ...more People tell me I have a short attention span. They mention, on some rare occasions, that I tend to space out easily. That one moment I'll be listening and paying attention and the next moment... Oh sparkly! With that I'm lost! It's amazing how many teachers have been the ones to remind me of my poor ability to pay attention. Remarkable really... What was I saying? Oh yeah! So it takes a little bit to capture my attention and to keep it. Usually an abnormal amount of sex, violence or suspense will People tell me I have a short attention span. They mention, on some rare occasions, that I tend to space out easily. That one moment I'll be listening and paying attention and the next moment... Oh sparkly! With that I'm lost! It's amazing how many teachers have been the ones to remind me of my poor ability to pay attention. Remarkable really... What was I saying? Oh yeah! So it takes a little bit to capture my attention and to keep it. Usually an abnormal amount of sex, violence or suspense will do the trick. Or if the writing is super-duper fabulous! (By the way, if only you knew how many times I've gotten distracted and forgotten to keep typing, you'd be surprised! Or maybe not...) Anyway, point of the matter is that Marr has my number. She knows what people like me are like. It's insidious really. Her nefarious schemes to keep my wavering attention with sex and horror have not gone unnoticed though! I'm onto her! What does she think of her audience? That they'll overlook the TERRIBLE editing job and shaky story-telling with sex? Okay, so maybe it worked a little... just a little bit. Because every time you start getting bored, some hot guy starts putting the moves on, or his fingers start roaming, or flirting starts happening. That, or you think you're about ready to yawn and some evil person shows up and starts hurting other things. It took me a little while to get what she was doing. What with the oral sex and the obvious lust inducing moments, it was hard to force my brain into action. I had to keep refocusing, shaking it off and trying to see the book for what it was as opposed to imagining half-naked men with incredible bodies all oiled up and posing... Okay, never mind, back to the point. In a market flooded with cookie-cutter YA paranormal and Urban Fantasy novels, this one is trying to be different. It's trying to be contrary. Marr must figure that if fails, at least there's lots of pretty to look at. Well, it did fail to be different. It was entirely forgettable. In fact I'm having trouble remembering everything already and I just finished it today. I suppose of course that if it wants to fall back on pretty sparkly men (oh, I'm sorry, this one GLOWS. It's different, see? At least this one doesn't try to hide the fact that he's a fairy) that's ITS prerogative, however on a hawtness scale of 1 - 10, I rate Keenan and Seth a bit, fat, walloping 'meh'. How could they possible compare to Clayton? Or Barrons, V'Lane or Howl, Christoph, Con or any of the other REAL literary crushes I have! In fact I've had to create a whole new bookshelf in honour of this book. I'm calling it my 'Meh' Shelf. It's for books like this one (don't be deceived by the stars, it's not really 3, it's 2 1/2) that aren't terrible, aren't fantastic, and that I'll barely remember in a week or so. So if you want to read some fairly PG schmexing and some interesting Fae mythology then go ahead. Give it a shot. Maybe if I keep reading books like this, I'll cure my insatiable fascination with sparkly things. It's what got me into this trouble to begin with. I was looking for a diamond in the rough but this book was pretty much mostly rough. ...more Aislinn has always followed the rules. Her Grandmother has drilled them into her since she was a young child. Don't stare at invisible faeries. Don't speak to invisible faeries. Don't ever attract faeries' attention. Aislinn has developed the skill to ignore them. She walks passed them without flinching even when the faeries are pinching or touching others around her like they love to do. Faeries come in many shapes and sizes and Aislinn has seen them all. She's seen them in the glamours they we Aislinn has always followed the rules. Her Grandmother has drilled them into her since she was a young child. Don't stare at invisible faeries. Don't speak to invisible faeries. Don't ever attract faeries' attention. Aislinn has developed the skill to ignore them. She walks passed them without flinching even when the faeries are pinching or touching others around her like they love to do. Faeries come in many shapes and sizes and Aislinn has seen them all. She's seen them in the glamours they wear in order to pass as humans and can pick one out of a crowd even when they are trying to blend in. Aislinn has never been surprised by what she has seen them do \u2013 that is, until they start breaking the rules. Faeries don't like steel. It causes them pain and weakens them. Because of that, Aislinn's \"safe\" place has always been Seth's house. Seth is a long time friend who happens to live in a converted steel train car. Aislinn always knew if she could make it there she'd have peace because the faeries could never follow her into the train yard. But, something has changed. They are creeping closer and closer and paying more attention to her. They are even gathering outside Seth's place. Aislinn really begins to worry when two faeries, Keenan and Donia, approach her and speak directly to her. She gets away from them as quickly as possible now hyperaware of the growing number of faeries surrounding and following her. She hears them say things like, \"Do you think she's the one?\" Aislinn realizes that in order to figure out what they want from her she is going to have to break the rules she's grown up with all her life. Keenan is the Summer King. His mother, the Winter Queen, has limited his powers and is slowly taking over the elements. Days are colder and eventually everything will be covered in ice, unless, Keenan finds the girl who is meant to be his Summer Queen. Together they would have the power to overcome the Winter Queen's chill. Keenan thinks Aislinn is the one and she is in danger because of it. The Winter Queen will do everything she can to prevent her son from getting the power he needs to overthrow her. Another problem of course is Aislinn doesn't want to be Summer Queen. She has avoided faeries all her life and she sure doesn't want to become one now. Especially when her feelings for Seth have developed into more than friendship and becoming the Summer Queen would mean spending an eternity with Keenan. Melissa Marr has written a wonderfully inventive story that incorporates actual quotes from books written on the subject of faeries dating back to the 1800's. Her ability to keep a complicated story with several important characters clear to the reader is phenomenal. The relationship she creates between Aislinn and Seth is heartwarming, leading the reader to fall in love right along with them. If you aren't usually a fan of faerie stories, you might want to give this one a try. The blending of the realistic world and the world of the fey is masterfully done. You'll almost believe faeries are all around you. ...more 5 out of 10 \u0420\u0435\u0432\u044c\u044e \u0432 \u043c\u043e\u0435\u043c \u0431\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0435/This review on my blog Living A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work) Short-Soundtrack: Gemma Hayes \u2013 Wicked Game Followed by Ghosts \u2013 King, My Queen Julee Cruise \u2013 Summer Kisses Winter Tears Genre : urban-fantasy, YA Stuff : canonical faery in the real world Fail : urban-part WOW : mythology POV : 3rd-person, multi Setting : Hunstdale (fictional city in USA) Love-Geometr 5 out of 10 \u0420\u0435\u0432\u044c\u044e \u0432 \u043c\u043e\u0435\u043c \u0431\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0435/This review on my blog Living A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work) Short-Soundtrack: Gemma Hayes \u2013 Wicked Game Followed by Ghosts \u2013 King, My Queen Julee Cruise \u2013 Summer Kisses Winter Tears Genre : urban-fantasy, YA Stuff : canonical faery in the real world Fail : urban-part WOW : mythology POV : 3rd-person, multi Setting : Hunstdale (fictional city in USA) Love-Geometry : strange, 'cause 95% of characters are polygamous Quote-Core : \"Maybe you should slow down, so I can catch you.\" Wicked Lovely is a wicked book or rather a wicked series. Why? Seems like you love the story and hate it at the same time. Isn\u2019t it wicked enough? I had changed my rating more than once, \u2018cause I had no idea what kind of feelings toward the book won after all. Marr is a nice teller , I like her style, I adore the world-building (you may not see it in the first book, but I've already read 3 parts and 2 bonuses of this series and have seen more) and fae-mythology of Wicked Lovely (these faeries are super close to canon). And there is one more big plus: we have about 5 MCs (so far, there would be more) and each of them has his or her story, each of them is a person (though again you won\u2019t see much in the first book), but more important is that Marr doesn\u2019t promote any of her characters, she develops everyone without pressure, without favoring any of them. That\u2019s why is so hard to get whom you like, whom you hate and about whom you don\u2019t care at all. I knew only one thing: Seth sucks . He is Mal + Jeb + every annoying humanling from other series. I hate such a type of characters, so I despised him from the first sight. What I disliked is an urban part of the story . I mean\u2026 such a good fae-society! Such colorful Courts and they live in an average city? Why they chose this particular place? And why Keenan was looking for his queen only here? Winter Queen and Dark King were stupid enough and didn\u2019t come up with an idea to choose a girl from the other part of the Earth? It would be so much difficult to find the very girl, if she was living in China or Russia or New Zealand. And faeries have to live in their magical lands, IMO. They should have some passages into the real world, those are connected with every corner of it. I see no reason for all the Courts to live in Hunstdale. Yes, it's a fictional place but this is a part of the human realm. Why Winter Queen lives there, while she could move to South Pole? Why Dark Fey didn't choose a huge city? More people, more emotions (they need them). Why Summer Court is here? Why not on a tropical island? This is illogical. Let's go further. We have 4 courts. Summer Summer faeries are frivolous and lightheaded; they love vine, dances and sex. They would die without joy and pleasure. And without their future queen too. Keenan , their young king (he\u2019s only 9 centuries old and others call him a boy, so\u2026) is cursed and his powers are bound by his mother (the Winter Queen) and Irial (the Dark King). Beira - the Winter Queen - was romancing his father and eventually killed him, but she was already pregnant, that\u2019s how was born a new Summer ruler. She was afraid of him to grow as strong as his father was and decided to prevent such a thing. Keenan had to search for his queen among mortals, pick them, change them into fae and then ask them to take his mother\u2019s staff (this is a kind of a test) or become a Summer Girl. Choosing the first, they risk to become a Winter Girl and to lose Keenan (\u2018cause sex with burns and freezburns isn\u2019t that good, you know), choosing the second means being addictive to their king presence and mood, without him they would wither and die, and when he\u2019s unhappy, they are too. There is another risk, one of these Summer Girls could be the queen but she was afraid to test herself and now Keenan would be always cursed, winter would last forever, Summer Court would die and people would do the same. So Keenan tries his best to break the spell, to find his lady and to care about summer faeries. He has two advisers: an old one and a young one (watch the last, he\u2019ll become a MC later). Winter Winter faeries are cold, cruel and impassioned. Beira rules them. Her main goal is not to let Keenan meet his queen, all she does is irritating him and visiting Donia , who was the last that risked her future and mortality for Keenan for nothing, now she contains winter cold in her body and soul plus has to talk every girl Keenan picks against taking the Winter\u2019s staff, she has to convince them that Summer King is dangerous and he can\u2019t be trusted. BTW, Donia still loves him and he still loves her (not amused, I am). Beira threats to kill her if she let the newest of Keenan\u2019s girls to try herself with staff and stuff. But Donia understands that she has to risk her life again, \u2018cause it would free Keenan and herself as well. Dark They are all about kinky things, sex, drugs and violence. They exist feeding on human\u2019s emotions (not positive or pure once). We won\u2019t see much of them in this book. Their king is Irial , he\u2019s a gancanagh , a solitary Fae whose touches and kisses are lethal to mortals, they become addictive and without him they die. But since he is king, he can control this ability. He has a past with Niall , the youngest of Keenan\u2019s advisers. And he is the one who helped Beira to bind Summer King\u2019s power. High This is a court of reason, order and balance. High Court is the one which exists not in the real world but in a magical one. Their queen is Sorcha , she takes mortals with Sight into her domain, where they create beautiful arts. She has a twin-sister Bananac, who is a Dark King's subject and a solitary Fae of War, and a brother Devlin , who is her adviser and assassin. While Sorcha is Order's incarnate and Bananac is Chaos, Devlin is both. We won\u2019t see much of High Court and its rulers until Old Habits bonus and until book #3, but we\u2019ll hear about them for sure. Now let me introduce you to our future Summer Queen Aislinn or simply Ash. She sees faeries since childhood and keeps it in secret. When a boy and a girl with a wolf start to stalking her, she panics and opens her problems to a new friend of her \u2014 a womanizer Seth. Later we would learn that he has no STD (he would show us and Ash a certificate, yes, this is weird and still it would happen) and he hasn't slept with anyone since meeting Aislinn. Such a hero. She would love him muuuuch and would refuse Keenan. I won\u2019t tell how it all ends, but you should know that Marr might surprise you (maybe not in a good way). Now tell me why do I still reading this series? I was spoiled on the ending (thanks to Wikia), I disagree with the final and still keeping on. I like how many different characters Marr created, I like how unusual and complicated ships are here, but this author tortures me with her story, I wanna one thing and she gives me another every freaking time, in every freaking book. How is that possible? I understand when you disagree with some twists, but with the whole story? Incredible... Wicked Lovely (\u041a\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0440\u043d\u0430\u044f \u041a\u0440\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0442\u0430): \u2014 Wicked Lovely (\u041a\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0440\u043d\u0430\u044f \u041a\u0440\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0442\u0430) #1/5 \u2014 Ink Exchange (\u0420\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430\u044f \u0442\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0432\u043a\u0430) #2/5 \u2014 Stopping Time (\u041e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0432\u043b\u0438\u0432\u0430\u044f \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u044f) #2.5/5 \u2014 Old Habits (\u0421\u0442\u0430\u0440\u044b\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0432\u044b\u0447\u043a\u0438) #2.6/5 \u2014 Fragile Eternity (\u0422\u0435\u043c\u043d\u043e\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435) #3/5 \u2014 Radiant Shadows (\u0421\u043c\u0435\u0440\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0435 \u0442\u0435\u043d\u0438) #4/5 \u2014 Darkest Mercy (\u0416\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0435 \u043c\u0438\u043b\u043e\u0441\u0435\u0440\u0434\u0438\u0435) #5/5 \u2014 Faery Tales & Nightmares (\u0421\u043a\u0430\u0437\u043a\u0438 \u0438 \u043a\u043e\u0448\u043c\u0430\u0440\u044b) \u2014 Desert Tales (\u0420\u0430\u0441\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u044b \u043e \u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u044b\u043d\u0435) ...more I don't even know what to say. This has been the first book that I've thrown across the room and felt extremely happy about it. Needless to say, I absolutely despised it. The beginning was a wonderful solid four stars...and then the ending came. *SPOILERS* Wicked Lovely is the story about a 17 year-old girl who's had the Sight her entire life. Aislinn lives in fear every day of attracting the attention of any faerie, only to have it all come crashing down when the Summer King, Keenan, claims her I don't even know what to say. This has been the first book that I've thrown across the room and felt extremely happy about it. Needless to say, I absolutely despised it. The beginning was a wonderful solid four stars...and then the ending came. *SPOILERS* Wicked Lovely is the story about a 17 year-old girl who's had the Sight her entire life. Aislinn lives in fear every day of attracting the attention of any faerie, only to have it all come crashing down when the Summer King, Keenan, claims her as the next Summer Queen. Keenan has been searching for \"the one\" for over nine centuries, only to condemn each wrong girl to the burden of being a Winter Girl, who has to carry the awful winter chill until the next unlucky girl comes along. Reasons why it sucked (and yes, it sucked majorly in my opinion). Seth, Aislinn's mortal friend/boyfriend (it takes the author a ridiculous amount of time to clear up which) is way too perfect. I love the idea that he owns his own place, yet has no job. THE ENDING. It really is a huge letdown to read the whole book realy enjoying it only to reach the end knowing that it's all going to end up awfully. The thing is, I loved Donia and Seth. I loved Keenan and Aislinn. How did it end up? Keenan and Donia, and Seth and Aislinn. WTH? The end. Who wants this book? I would be glad to send it to you, some of the pages bend up of course from its impact on my wall. ...more So I was expecting to read a nice YA book, but let me tell you... this book was so good that I read it in 6 hours without stoping. I loved all the characters and the way everything developed. Specially the end. I really liked how the author gave a smart solution to every problem. I really enjoyed to read something different from all the books that are out there. Wicked lovely is a nice, refreshing and original story. Ash is a great heroine, with one of the best personalities I've seen and Seth is So I was expecting to read a nice YA book, but let me tell you... this book was so good that I read it in 6 hours without stoping. I loved all the characters and the way everything developed. Specially the end. I really liked how the author gave a smart solution to every problem. I really enjoyed to read something different from all the books that are out there. Wicked lovely is a nice, refreshing and original story. Ash is a great heroine, with one of the best personalities I've seen and Seth is the sweetest thing. If you like paranormal romance and YA books, you'll love this series. I'm glad I finally read it. I would give this book 4.5 stars if I could. So good. ...more I loved the premise of this book- and invisible world of faeries that are about as unlike Tinkerbell as you can get. Unfortunately, the dropped plot lines and somewhat flat nature of the supporting characters was disappointing. The faeries in this story are spiteful, cruel, and yes, wickedly beautiful. Aislin, the star of this urban fantasy, is a junior in high school with the unusual ability to see the faeries no one else can. She has been tortured by this knowledge her entire life and has been I loved the premise of this book- and invisible world of faeries that are about as unlike Tinkerbell as you can get. Unfortunately, the dropped plot lines and somewhat flat nature of the supporting characters was disappointing. The faeries in this story are spiteful, cruel, and yes, wickedly beautiful. Aislin, the star of this urban fantasy, is a junior in high school with the unusual ability to see the faeries no one else can. She has been tortured by this knowledge her entire life and has been taught by her grandmother (a fellow seer) never to acknowledge their presence. Aislin goes about her life trying hard to ignore the atrocities she witnesses and the cruel acts that these barbaric faeries commit. So far, no faery has ever noticed her and she has remained as unknown to the faery world as it is to the humans. That is, until the day the Summer King, Keenan, picks up on a certain \"vibe\" from Aislin and decides she is \"the one.\" SPOILER ALERT!!!! While the details of the faery customs, dress, language, and history were well-developed, the author failed to make her human characters as compelling. Besides the relationship between Aislin and her boy-but-just-a-friend Seth, the humans in the story are either boring, do not progress the plot in any way, or are cliched teenagers. Most annoying was the introduction of several seemingly important plot points that went nowhere. Case in point (and here comes the spoiler) the revelation near the end of the book that Aislin's mother was also courted by Keenan. This fact, when first presented during a stressful time when the main characters are working towards a resolution, seems rather important. If nothing else, it would make sense, given her character's history, that Aislin would have *some* kind of reaction to this news. Rather, the characters move on to the next bit of action and by the end of the book, that plot point has been completely abandoned. Did some key dialouge get edited out in the final draft? Who knows. It was this inattention to developmental details of the story like the above that left me scratching my head and wondering what the editor was thinking. Overall, however, it is a fluid read with a steady pace and enough sexual tension and drama to keep most teens and adults turning the pages. The use of the F-bomb and an oral sex scene make it more suitable to older teens. ...more As much as I found interesting the fact that this had a dark vibe going on the entire time, I must say that I was completely let down by the writing. I don't know if it is because it's the author's first book but I guess that must be it. The story was equal parts intriguing and confusing, so I have mixed feelings about this entire book. I struggled giving a rating to this. I wasn't sure if it deserved 3 stars or 2 but I'll say that I'm somewhere in between. Aislinn is a mortal, she has the Sight As much as I found interesting the fact that this had a dark vibe going on the entire time, I must say that I was completely let down by the writing. I don't know if it is because it's the author's first book but I guess that must be it. The story was equal parts intriguing and confusing, so I have mixed feelings about this entire book. I struggled giving a rating to this. I wasn't sure if it deserved 3 stars or 2 but I'll say that I'm somewhere in between. Aislinn is a mortal, she has the Sight, which means she can see the faeries. She's always been able too and her grams always advised her to not let them know that she could see them because faeries can be unpredictable and vicious. Keenan is the Summer King, he's royalty and his mother is the Winter Queen so that means they are enemies. He's been trying to find the girl that will touch the winter staff without being consumed by the Queen's frost and so far he's only failed. It's a multi-changing perspective book. There are four characters narrating the story. Aislinn is one, Keenan another, Donia who is the last girl who touched the winter staff and got consumed by the frost and now she's partially a ghost, and lastly, Seth, Aislinn's boyfriend of sorts. This book has its pros and cons. It's fast-paced and the story evolves quickly, there are multiple p.o.v's so one does not get bored easily but it's not that well-written and the story can get baffling, to say the least. I'm sure that whoever reads this, they'll enjoy it. You may won't love it, I didn't either. But I'm intrigued enough, by the ending and the twists, that I'm going to be reading the next book in the series and hope for the best. ...more \"Wicked Lovely\" is a story of Aislinn, a teenage girl who has a rare ability to see faeries. This gift/curse troubles her, mostly because the fae world is cruel and ugly. For a long time she manages to hide this ability and stay unnoticed, but suddenly she finds herself a center of fae attention. We very quickly learn that Aislinn is chosen to have a special place in the faery world... Once again a book so popular and trendy and such a favorite of many of my friends, disappointed me. But first th \"Wicked Lovely\" is a story of Aislinn, a teenage girl who has a rare ability to see faeries. This gift/curse troubles her, mostly because the fae world is cruel and ugly. For a long time she manages to hide this ability and stay unnoticed, but suddenly she finds herself a center of fae attention. We very quickly learn that Aislinn is chosen to have a special place in the faery world... Once again a book so popular and trendy and such a favorite of many of my friends, disappointed me. But first the positives. I liked the concept of the book and the ideas behind the faery mythology Marr created. In fact, her apparent strong knowledge of fae lore and interesting idea of Summer and Winter Courts saved this book from being just a tolerable read. I enjoyed the prologue and the quotes at the beginning of each chapter. I appreciate thorough research. What didn't work for me? Definitely the writing. I found that while the sentence structure of this book was overly simplistic, the narration itself seemed too confusing for me. The sentences in the paragraphs didn't flow together. I didn't care for the 3rd person narration with 1st person thoughts (by multiple characters) thrown in together. Neither did I care for long descriptive paragraphs between lines of dialog. It made me very often go back to previous lines paragraphs before just to keep up with a conversation. I also didn't find myself emotionally connected with any of the characters. For me Aislinn seemed whiny most of the book (she did perk up in the end though), Seth appeared to be a guy who does nothing wrong and yet at 18 has so my sexual past that he has to have himself frequently tested for STDs (?), Keenan - just bland... I would not discourage anybody from reading this series. It is after all very popular. I expect you will like this book if you are a fan of fairies and find guys with tattoos and pierced lips and navels attractive. Unfortunately these things are not quite within my scope of interest and therefore this book didn't work for me. Reading challenge: #1 - W ...more Where do I start... This book had me from the very moment I started reading. I just knew it would be something out of the ordinary. 17-year old Aislinn (how to pronounce that name?), or \"Ash\", is not like other girls. She can see fairies. And not good fairies, fairies that fight and do all kinds of bad stuff. She's learned how to control herself, how to not seem scared and to not start running as they approach; that only triggers them. The fairies doesn't know about her unusual talent... And she i Where do I start... This book had me from the very moment I started reading. I just knew it would be something out of the ordinary. 17-year old Aislinn (how to pronounce that name?), or \"Ash\", is not like other girls. She can see fairies. And not good fairies, fairies that fight and do all kinds of bad stuff. She's learned how to control herself, how to not seem scared and to not start running as they approach; that only triggers them. The fairies doesn't know about her unusual talent... And she is determined for it to stay that way. However, when devastatingly beautiful Keenan shows interest for her, Ash realizes that she can't ignore them anymore. Keenan, who is the \"Summer King\" of the fairies wants her as his Queen; NEEDS her to be his queen. But Ash doesn't want that. She already has a special someone, though Seth seems to be oblivious to her feelings, and Ash works hard to conceal them anyway. She doesn't want anything to mess up their friendship. As Keenan refuses to give up, Seth proves to be the only one she can count on, the only one she can trust. This book truly was unbelievably good. It can't match Stephenie Meyers Twilight, but it was close enough. Melissa Marr has a way with words that makes you FEEL everything. I found myself talking to Ash, trying to will her to get away from Keenan. In the parts where she was with Seth, my thoughts were going something like \"Oh COME ON, just kiss him!\". You could really feel the sexual tension there, and Marr does not seem to be afraid of writing about those kinds of things. Along with that tension comes the tension of how in the world she's going to solve this. You want Ash to be with Seth, cause Seth's person is just so wonderful, and the harmony between them is so clear. But as the story evolves it doesn't seem possible. It seems as if Ash doesn't really have a choice... ...more Are there any books on your to-read list that you've been (consciously or unconsciously) avoiding because people keep harassing you to read them? Then, when you read them, do you kick yourself for being so stubborn? On one hand, I'm really happy I waited to read this book, because the third (and final? Edit: No, there's a book 4, at least...) book just came out, so no waiting for me! On the other hand... WHAT WAS I WAITING FOR????? This book was AWESOME!! I don't know that I was avoiding it becaus Are there any books on your to-read list that you've been (consciously or unconsciously) avoiding because people keep harassing you to read them? Then, when you read them, do you kick yourself for being so stubborn? On one hand, I'm really happy I waited to read this book, because the third (and final? Edit: No, there's a book 4, at least...) book just came out, so no waiting for me! On the other hand... WHAT WAS I WAITING FOR????? This book was AWESOME!! I don't know that I was avoiding it because of what other people were saying, necessarily. I don't know where my prejudice against faery books comes from, but it's there nonetheless! (That's why I haven't read Holly Black 's books, either...) Why would I not like them? Maybe I thought they were wussy little creatures... A Midsummer Night's Dream turned me off to them, perhaps? But whatever the reason, I'm glad I got over myself and read this book! I haven't been so surprised by the twists and turns a plot has taken in quite some time! I just... I didn't know what was going to happen! I thought I knew, and in ONE respect, I was right, but I was wrong about all the others! And that's fun\u2014being surprised by the character's decisions. I loved all the characters (except the Winter Queen, of course)! Aislinn was AWESOME! I was a little worried about her in the middle... but by the end, she was pretty kick-ass. Keenan even turned out pretty well! ;) I'm in love with Seth and all his scary body piercings! (Never thought I'd say that in my lifetime....) And Donia... oh, I felt for her... Really great characters.... About 20 pages from the end (the last chapter), I was spazzing out. I have no experience with Melissa Marr, so I had no idea if she was a happy-ending author or a depressing-ending author.... I had a HUGE grin on my face at the end. HUGE. I can't wait to read Ink Exchange and Fragile Eternity !! (Ink Exchange isn't due back to the library until August 17th! What am I going to do??!?!??) ...more The one where Aislinn can see faeries that no one else can see, and they're awful. But the young Summer King, Keenan (srsly, Keenan), wants her to be his queen, and if things go wrong, they're going to go very wrong. I described this book to someone as \"like mediocre fanfiction,\" and now I'm trying to pin down exactly what that means. First, of course, it means the book is quite self-indulgent when it comes to everyone being Special and having special names and special facial piercings and specia The one where Aislinn can see faeries that no one else can see, and they're awful. But the young Summer King, Keenan (srsly, Keenan), wants her to be his queen, and if things go wrong, they're going to go very wrong. I described this book to someone as \"like mediocre fanfiction,\" and now I'm trying to pin down exactly what that means. First, of course, it means the book is quite self-indulgent when it comes to everyone being Special and having special names and special facial piercings and special eclectic reading habits and playlists (which are described in great detail) and so on. Second, there's a very high level of what you might call emotional explicitness -- which means not only that the feelings are told rather than shown, but that everybody knows what they feel; nobody is confused or ambivalent or maintaining a successful wall of denial. Third, an awful lot of what passes for conflict is actually meaningless, whiny rebellion. Keenan faces off his mother, and it says, \"He couldn't afford to let her browbeat him,\" and so his courageous stand consists of clenching his teeth and saying, \"Someday I'll win! Someday I'll beat you!\" And then his companion has to meet up with his mother and do exactly the same thing. I have to admit, I'm curious to know exactly what all the hints amount to -- what she has to say about Faery culture. But not curious enough. ...more Maybe it was because I'd just finished reading Holly Black's Valiant and Ironside, two of my favorite books in this genre, but I really did not think very highly of Wicked Lovely. Compared with Black's books, I found this one to be badly paced, full of one-dimensional, undeveloped characters and lacking a lot of detail. Aislinn is rather whiny and unremarkable, with no defining characteristics except for the Sight, so it's hard to see why everyone loves her so much. Her friends are completely fl Maybe it was because I'd just finished reading Holly Black's Valiant and Ironside, two of my favorite books in this genre, but I really did not think very highly of Wicked Lovely. Compared with Black's books, I found this one to be badly paced, full of one-dimensional, undeveloped characters and lacking a lot of detail. Aislinn is rather whiny and unremarkable, with no defining characteristics except for the Sight, so it's hard to see why everyone loves her so much. Her friends are completely flat and expendable, judging by the fact that we don't see them past page 50 or so. Seth is also one-dimensional, a cardboard cutout of a boyfriend whose only purpose is to serve Aislinn. When have you ever seen a boy with a navel ring, anyway? Keenan is also dull, with no personality or characteristics beyond being the driver for the plot, and Beira is possibly the most archetypal, undeveloped villain with no motives other than being evil for evil's sake. Only Donia is somewhat enjoyable. The plot moves too slowly at the beginning, and we are forced to read about Aislinn whining about how faeries are evil for over a hundred pages. Then, suddenly, she changes her mind and decides that she kind of likes bossing people around, and everything is very neatly squared away at the end. The premise was interesting, but nothing was ever properly explained. The plot was full of holes and the detached, one-dimensional characters made it hard to care about getting through the book. Hopefully Marr's next work will be better, because this one was a sore disappointment. Don't be fooled by the pretty cover. ...more Quick review for a quick re-read. I read this book for the first time many years ago, and I remember it being one that stood out not only for its striking cover, but for being a YA urban fantasy title with dark imagery in the presentation of the world of the fey. Yet, even with Melissa Marr's writing being mostly clear cut in the presentation of the world as well as the emotions of the different characters this tale revolved around, I found my re-reading of it having more than a few points of ir Quick review for a quick re-read. I read this book for the first time many years ago, and I remember it being one that stood out not only for its striking cover, but for being a YA urban fantasy title with dark imagery in the presentation of the world of the fey. Yet, even with Melissa Marr's writing being mostly clear cut in the presentation of the world as well as the emotions of the different characters this tale revolved around, I found my re-reading of it having more than a few points of irritation. It may be because I've read more YA urban fantasy titles since this one or buildings of the world of the fey, but I honestly think there were issues with this that didn't translate as well as it could've. I'll admit I liked the lore surrounding this tale - a cursed prince with his powers bound but yet the girls he chooses in a ritual to determine co-ruling his kingdom and freeing him from the curse leaves them trapped/bound to ice by the Winter staff. The former girls that are trapped are tasked to warn the next young woman against trusting Keenan's motivations (and fair reason, considering). Aislinn is the latest girl to catch Keenan's eye, and she's had the sight for the fey for all of her life. Aislinn, on the other hand, has been on the run from the fey, trying to pretend they don't exist in order to avoid detection or attention from them. Yet when Keenan sets his sights on her, she's torn between fighting him for the freedom to maintain her life and relationships and keeping to the warnings that her grandmother has given her all her life. Granted, the premise by itself on this level would seem intriguing, but the presentation this story gives it really isn't that strong. I'll admit I struggled through the narrative more than I should've considering the sketch of the plot. It has a dark premise and dark promises in its building of the world and conflict, but much of it feels forced along. I mean, Aislinn is far too quick to break her grandmother's warnings just for the sake of being able to go where she wants, do what she wants, go out with Seth, the goth friend who's sort of become something more but she keeps him firmly in the friend category for *reasons.* I was frustrated by how easily she cast aside the warnings only to end up in obvious danger (though she does refuse Keenan's advances - which I could applaud her for on some measures.) Keenan is incredibly stalkerish and creepy through the beginning stages of this novel - and I had a hard time liking his character or finding a connection to his motivations in the narrative. I honestly didn't like him very much in my initial read of this book and not much really changed in my re-read. Seth is a bit of a convenient side-character, established to further the romance depicted in the book. One could also say that while the characters are drawn in such a way to further the conflict and lore inside the book, it's so thinly drawn and hard to palpate that the intrigue never measures up as much as it builds itself up to. I even felt the antagonist in this book was very weak for lack of expansion and true connection to the overarching conflict of the work. The audioboook was well narrated, but even then made me feel like I had to push through it in points. Still, I think what kept me moving through it was the strength of the writing and impression of the realm it builds (alongside a few action sequences that were well drawn to me.) I'll admit it's hard for me to know how the series will unfold after this book, but all things considered, I want to see if this series has the potential to improve with the new installments. It's a hard sell given the flaws this book had, but I'm in it for the longer haul. Overall score: 2.5/5 stars. ...more Wicked Lovely has become my favorite \"faerie\" tale of all time! I loved this story, it was enchanting, heartfelt, thrilling and absolutely beautiful. Marr's character and story development is exceptional. The way she writes about Keenan and Seth, two characters who are fighting for opposite needs/wants, is skillful. I found myself rooting for both, which is something I don't think I've ever done. I usually pick one character and root for them all the way through. Not the case with Wicked Lovely. Wicked Lovely has become my favorite \"faerie\" tale of all time! I loved this story, it was enchanting, heartfelt, thrilling and absolutely beautiful. Marr's character and story development is exceptional. The way she writes about Keenan and Seth, two characters who are fighting for opposite needs/wants, is skillful. I found myself rooting for both, which is something I don't think I've ever done. I usually pick one character and root for them all the way through. Not the case with Wicked Lovely. It was an emotional journey that I haven't taken for a while now. Aislinn has lived her life by three important rules, including (1) don't stare at invisible faeries, (2) don't speak to invisible faeries, and (3) never, ever attract their attention. These are Aislinn's rules for survival, who is a teenage girl who has always possessed the \"sight,\" which is both a gift and curse. She can see the faeries who hover in the mortal world mingling with humans, sometimes undetected, but most always causing mischief. Keenan is the Summer King faerie and he has spent over nine centuries looking for his balance, or rather Summer Queen. He is determined to make Aislinn his Queen, but Aislinn is tied to her mortal world, mainly the person she loves, Seth. There are dangers and emotional conflicts that cause the characters in this novel to test their will do to what is right for themselves and the people they hold dear, for some it's the humans in their life, for others it's the summer, winter and high court faeries. I loved this story on so many levels. It is one I will read over again. A must read if you think you'd enjoy an enchanting journey of the imagination. ...more Finally! A YA paranormal romance that breaks the pattern! I was very concerned that the dark-haired mortal guy would lose to the light-and-shiny-haired supernatural guy. But he didn't. While the descriptions of Seth\u2019s various piercings made me cringe (sorry, I\u2019m just not into that), he is a wonderful character. Sweet, intelligent, loyal, patient, brave. (Okay, yes, he does have some wild history; but he\u2019s put that aside for Aislinn, so kudos to him!) Aislinn doesn\u2019t instantly fall for the supern Finally! A YA paranormal romance that breaks the pattern! I was very concerned that the dark-haired mortal guy would lose to the light-and-shiny-haired supernatural guy. But he didn't. While the descriptions of Seth\u2019s various piercings made me cringe (sorry, I\u2019m just not into that), he is a wonderful character. Sweet, intelligent, loyal, patient, brave. (Okay, yes, he does have some wild history; but he\u2019s put that aside for Aislinn, so kudos to him!) Aislinn doesn\u2019t instantly fall for the supernatural guy and tries to hold onto her mortal existence and Seth--yay for her! I would've liked to have seen more about what helped her maintain her sanity for seventeen years when she can see the faery world but must pretend she can\u2019t and has been relentlessly drilled on faery avoidance and shielded by her grandmother. But at least she's a good student, has friends and interests. Keenan, on the other hand, I didn\u2019t like much. He is very much one of the fey, with the arrogance and sense of entitlement. There\u2019s a bit of a sad, pathetic quality to him at times that kept him from being despicable; I did hope he\u2019d get his act together and change for the better. He\u2019s been playing the same game with his evil Winter Queen superbitch mother for 900 years, and he\u2019s seemingly never tried to figure out any loopholes to unbind his Summer King power. It\u2019s quite horrible how many girls Keenan has gone through in trying to find the one who will be his Summer Queen. Once he\u2019s targeted someone, she loses her mortality whether she\u2019s The One or not. The girls not brave enough to try their luck at becoming Summer Queen become Summer Girls, part of what\u2019s essentially a faery harem; and the girls who do try but fail become the Winter Girl, tortured with cold and charged with trying to convince the next girls Keenan goes after to become Summer Girls. It\u2019s twisted. Marr has created a faery world that overlaps a Pennsylvania town and is very dark and sinister. Faeries roam in invisible or \u201cglamoured\u201d visible forms and bother mortals; and they also torment and attack each other. Keenan\u2019s pursuit of Aislinn is relentless and disturbing. But she resists. And gets help from Donia, the current Winter Girl--whom I like very much; she's very sympathetic and tries her best to help Aislinn, Seth, and Keenan. I liked that, in the end, love for Keenan or his love for the girl has nothing to do with who becomes Summer Queen. The bargain that Aislinn strikes is clever and benefits not only herself but others. BTW--I wouldn't recommend this series for readers under 15 years old. ...more This book was very unique, not the usual YA formula. It is a tad darker than most YA faerie tales, although not nearly as dark as Holly Black 's faerie series. I really enjoyed the story, lots of twists and turns and I never would have guessed the ending. But I think the most unusual thing about the whole book was the fact that the main guy was not the main girl's love interest. That is usually how it goes. If there is a main guy and a main girl, they fall in love. If they dont, its usually becau This book was very unique, not the usual YA formula. It is a tad darker than most YA faerie tales, although not nearly as dark as Holly Black 's faerie series. I really enjoyed the story, lots of twists and turns and I never would have guessed the ending. But I think the most unusual thing about the whole book was the fact that the main guy was not the main girl's love interest. That is usually how it goes. If there is a main guy and a main girl, they fall in love. If they dont, its usually because its not a romance book. This certainly is a romance, but they just dont love each other . I dont know if that is something that will change over the course of the series, but I hope not. Although I am sure things will get complicated. And I think readers should be prepared not to fall in love with Keenan. Some will of course, there are all types, but I think most wont. He had too many flaws for my liking. He was totally unsympathetic towards Aislinn's situation, and he basically had a harem, which is extremely unattractive. But I did feel sorry for him at times too. Especially during the scene at Rath and Ruin. But I cant imagine a woman who wouldnt line up for a turn with Seth. He is just too yummy to be true. He was perfection. And all the characters were great in their own way. Seth is just the most supportive, loving, and protective boyfriend anyone could wish for. Aislinn is strong and stable, able to hold her head high and not fall apart even as her world does around her. Donia, who has suffered for decades, remains kind and has never abandoned her love. And Keenan, despite his mistakes and his attempts to manipulate Aislinn to his will, in the end is understanding and accepts Aislinn (and Seth) just the way she is, for the good of his people. But this series isnt all about Aislin and Seth, Keenan and Donia. The next book is about the king of the dark court, and book 4 is about other characters although I am not sure how they are connected. But book 3 and 5 are again about characters we met in this book, which is good. I usually dont like series that arent all about the same characters, but it doesnt seem like this one strays too much. This book has a great ending and I cannot wait to find out how things turn out for everyone. Aislinn and Keenan have a lot to figure out. Can they learn to work together? Can Keenan live with the terms they agreed on? Can Seth accept Aislinn's new life? I cannot wait to get through Ink Exchange and on to Fragile Eternity so I can find out. Warning that the prologue of this book is extremely confusing and misleading. Although I still dont know for sure where it fits into the story, it is now clear that it did not happen to Aislinn. It was most likely Donia. But there is no reason to read it before even having read Wicked Lovely. I dont like that they added it and I would suggest you skip it so that you dont get confused. The prologue really took away from my enjoyment of the first half of the book because it led me to believe a lot of things that werent even true. You can go back and read it at the end, but by then you will already know what has happened and it wont even be important anymore. ...more MICHELLE'S REVIEW: RATING : 4 SETH STARS!! This was my first major foray into the world of Faeries. I have read Lament and Ballad by Maggie Stiefvater. This series of books is like mind blowing on the Faerie courts and laws . Wicked Lovely the first book I think is the easiest to read . They are wonderful books but perservere as the laws are detailed sometimes..but once you get the hang of it you are good to go. Each book cover represents the female character. #1 book is Aislinn, #2 Leslie..and so MICHELLE'S REVIEW: RATING : 4 SETH STARS!! This was my first major foray into the world of Faeries. I have read Lament and Ballad by Maggie Stiefvater. This series of books is like mind blowing on the Faerie courts and laws . Wicked Lovely the first book I think is the easiest to read . They are wonderful books but perservere as the laws are detailed sometimes..but once you get the hang of it you are good to go. Each book cover represents the female character. #1 book is Aislinn, #2 Leslie..and so on I shant give it away. Melissa Marr is an incredible writer..very detailed, I felt. Seth..sigh!!!! I was trying to work out if he was a little emo or gothic..but friends think he has a touch of emo but not gothic. You make up your mind. All I know is you will love Seth...he is the tattooed, pierced smexi lad with the blue black hair in Wicked Lovely. P.s. boy can he kiss!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! *fans oneself* You can really 'see' these books as you read them. Some readers wont take to Keenan. I did as he has his court to look after and he needs to do what he needs to do...which of course makes the book exciting. He can be a bit of a spoilt brat..but that just means Melissa is making you really 'feel' the characters. Really worth reading...but if you need to stop and get some bearings..then do it and continue. We helped a friend Carolyn get through them and she enjoyed them. Seth..sigh....sigh ...more 3.5 Need some Summer Stars Ehhh...it was OK but not a book which captivated me. I enjoyed the different twist to the fantasy but found it very hard to connect with the characters. I think after this one...I'm gonna quit while I'm ahead. So, I'm not saying that I hated or disliked the book, it's just one that won't stay in my memories for very long. Lovely covers in this series. Just fantastic. It surprised me by being unpredictable and that is uncommon in YA. Overall the story is an interesting and fun read. I was intrigued by this book for three things: the pretty cover, the nice title, and the fact that the back cover features a plug from Tamora Pierce . Then I read the summary and learned that it was about fairies, and how they aren't just fun and games - they can be scary, too. Why not? I decided to read it. It's about this chick named Aislinn (kooky name, huh?) who can see fairies (actually, the book spells it \"faery\" - I guess Marr couldn't decide between fairy and faerie and so went middle of t I was intrigued by this book for three things: the pretty cover, the nice title, and the fact that the back cover features a plug from Tamora Pierce . Then I read the summary and learned that it was about fairies, and how they aren't just fun and games - they can be scary, too. Why not? I decided to read it. It's about this chick named Aislinn (kooky name, huh?) who can see fairies (actually, the book spells it \"faery\" - I guess Marr couldn't decide between fairy and faerie and so went middle of the road). So, she knows when Keenan, who is, as it turns out, no common faery but instead the king of the Summer Court of faeries, starts tailing her. As it turns out, Keenan's looking for a mortal girl who will turn out to be the lost Summer Queen with whose help he will be able to put the tyrannical Winter Queen back in her place. As I'm sure you can imagine, romance ensues, blah blah blah. This book is pretty good fluff. It's enjoyable to read and it held my attention, but I doubt that it will be mental super-glue. Marr's style is just as pleasantly bland, as are her characters. The book reminded me rather of Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale , only better. It's worth a read, but probably not likely to become a treasured favorite. ...more This book was captivating, from the beginning I was drawn in and interested to see what would happen next. Don\u2019t worry if you are unfamiliar with the faery world like I was, Melissa Marr does a great job of introducing the reader to the faeries and we quickly learn that they are nothing like Tinkerbell! The plot was interesting and kept me guessing up to the final twist near the end of the story that I truly didn\u2019t see coming. I would recommend this semi-dark young adult read to anyone that enjo This book was captivating, from the beginning I was drawn in and interested to see what would happen next. Don\u2019t worry if you are unfamiliar with the faery world like I was, Melissa Marr does a great job of introducing the reader to the faeries and we quickly learn that they are nothing like Tinkerbell! The plot was interesting and kept me guessing up to the final twist near the end of the story that I truly didn\u2019t see coming. I would recommend this semi-dark young adult read to anyone that enjoyed Twilight or The Hunger Games, and I look forward to reading the rest of the series. ...more I was so skeptical when I started this series, seriously Wicked Lovely sat on my TBR list for MONTHS... I had heard mixed reviews about the WL series, everything from mind blowingly amazing to horrifically awful. Sadly, it was just 'meh' for me. On one hand the plot was fabstastic, the book as a whole was full of romance, suspense, excitement... The whole nine yards! WL totally had the makings of something great! But... Aislinn (the heroine) irritated the ever living *bleeeeeping bleep* out of me! I was so skeptical when I started this series, seriously Wicked Lovely sat on my TBR list for MONTHS... I had heard mixed reviews about the WL series, everything from mind blowingly amazing to horrifically awful. Sadly, it was just 'meh' for me. On one hand the plot was fabstastic, the book as a whole was full of romance, suspense, excitement... The whole nine yards! WL totally had the makings of something great! But... Aislinn (the heroine) irritated the ever living *bleeeeeping bleep* out of me! No joke dude, if someone - oh I don't know like THE KING of Summer fae who happens to be breathtakingly beautiful, willing to do my every bidding and whom I also had an insane connection to- wanted to make me the Summer Queen... Where do I sign up? Take me now Mr. Glowing with hotness and sex appeal. But nooooo, not Ash (right?) she just felt sorry for herself and whined incessantly about EVERYTHING. Literally, I wanted to reach through the book and shake the hell out of her! \"Hey chick! Quit bitching and do what needs to be done!\" Grrrrr to Aislinn. Now the other characters were amazing and so well developed! I freaking loved the Winter Girl, Donia... (Who had been courted by Keenan the Summer King previously) She had true depth and grit, she has what it takes to be a queen! *grins wickedly* You'll have to read the book to find out how she ended up a Winter Girl when she was previously courted by the Summer King... Seth (or Aislinn's whipping boy as I like to call him), I could take or leave- he had several good points but gets even more exasperating throughout the series. Keenan is a complex character if you can read between the lines. There are several minor characters who play bigger parts later in the series that were compelling enough to keep me interested when Aislinn made me want to put the throw the book across the room (which I'd never do because I like my books in pristine condition!) Do not let this review deter you from reading this book, because I did like the overall story, I just despised the main character! Lucky for me I started reading the Wicked Lovely series after the fifth and final book was released, so I didn't have to chance standing in the rain for the sequel. ;) The second book in the series, Ink Exchange is AMAZING... 5 stars all the way! If anything, read the first one just so you can get the basics down and get to the second book ...more I loved reading this book so much. I felt it had a slow pace at first, but had it not, it wouldn't have had the same effect on me. I enjoyed learning about this Faerie world and how things worked in it. The writing is so beautiful, and so efficient - I never got bored or felt the urge to skim through anything. I also don't think I've ever been so satisfied with a book's ending like I was with Wicked Lovely , but I guess that is subjective.. I just can't describe the utter joy I was feeling at the I loved reading this book so much. I felt it had a slow pace at first, but had it not, it wouldn't have had the same effect on me. I enjoyed learning about this Faerie world and how things worked in it. The writing is so beautiful, and so efficient - I never got bored or felt the urge to skim through anything. I also don't think I've ever been so satisfied with a book's ending like I was with Wicked Lovely , but I guess that is subjective.. I just can't describe the utter joy I was feeling at the end, when Donia and Keenan were able to finally have each other the way they have wanted to for so long. I liked how Seth and Aislinn found an arrangement to be with each other too, but I just didn't care much about what happened to them. I found myself empathizing more with Donia and Keenan's pain and loss. One thing I wish was a little different was the way the confrontation with Beira was executed - I thought it should have been more dramatic , it just felt so casual. I wanted to feel the finality of Beira's defeat, because it was something I anticipated most of the book. Aislinn also got on my nerves quite a bit.. But I don't want to type out all the ways she made me dislike her. Sigh.. Just another boring female protagonist with no attributes or characteristics to set her apart from other girls/to make her worthy of the significant role she plays in the book. Another thing I felt was odd and rather unrealistic was Aislinn and Seth's relationship at the beginning - it just seems illogical that two \"friends\" who are physically attracted to each other and who have feelings for one another, can casually hug, hold, and wallow on one another while keeping their feelings \"hidden\" and without straining the friendship or making it awkward. Regardless, the book was fabulous and I can't wait to complete the series. ...more Quick review Cover: It\u2019s suits. Rating PG-13 Thumbs Up 5 Overall: Felt my interest throughout. Characters: Solid Plot: A well throughout story about the Fae. Page Turner: Yes. Series Cont.? Yes. Recommend Yes. Book Boyfriend: Seth SUMMARY (50 word or less) A solid story all around from beginning to end. The plot was engaging with just enough wonder to make you antsy but not piss you off. The ending was satisfying without the normal cliffhanger that turns your stomach into knots. But enough to make y Quick review Cover: It\u2019s suits. Rating PG-13 Thumbs Up 5 Overall: Felt my interest throughout. Characters: Solid Plot: A well throughout story about the Fae. Page Turner: Yes. Series Cont.? Yes. Recommend Yes. Book Boyfriend: Seth SUMMARY (50 word or less) A solid story all around from beginning to end. The plot was engaging with just enough wonder to make you antsy but not piss you off. The ending was satisfying without the normal cliffhanger that turns your stomach into knots. But enough to make you want to read the next. To see my full review and book boyfriend pic, check out my blog post. http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2... Audio Review Alyssa Bresnahan does a good job with this book. She didn\u2019t use a ton of different voices but I didn\u2019t have trouble following what character was speaking. So great job. ...more", "Title": "Wicked Lovely"},
