{"Comments": "Definitely a page turner! Coben always fascinates me with his novels! Just love this guy.<---F> HC is great</---F>. This was very good audio book, well-crafted artists that delivered good quality reading with excellent accents, tone and an all-round feel of a quality performance,<---M> as after all</---M>, these audio books are a performance. Also a great feature was the use of a male and female narrator. Excellent! Funny enough though, I own the paperback without list here on GR, so (again) I end up with both hardcopy and audio. Here, the audio fits the bill. This was a good chilling read Just love this guy. HC is great. This was very good audio book, well-crafted artists that delivered good quality reading with excellent accents, tone and an all-round feel of a quality performance, as after all, these audio books are a performance. Also a great feature was the use of a male and female narrator. Excellent! Funny enough though, I own the paperback without list here on GR, so (again) I end up with both hardcopy and audio. Here, the audio fits the bill. This was a good chilling read. I always love the protags in this author\u2019s stories. I was on the edge of my (car) seat the whole way, and boy was I glad to start my first job of my library career. I did not mind for one minute that the commute was thirty minutes each way! \u2018Cope\u2019, a successful city prosecutor searches for answers from a night which occurred over twenty years ago, the killings at a summer camp that he feels terribly guilty about, he failed to stand guard at his post, instead he snuck off to make love to his girlfriend. As always, he's just the type of guy you'd like to be with. Smart, in control, capable. <---A>Harlan Coben</---A> writes thrillers with flair and humour, lots of twists and turns. He's very very good. Four youngsters went into the woods that night, and not all came out alive. This guy is good; I\u2019d read him if I was you. ...more \u201cYou don't worry about happiness and fulfilment when you're starving.\u201d 2.5 stars <+++>The Woods</+++> was quite boring with nothing new to surprise me. Harlan Coben put the old materials in this book again without reconsidering whether the twists were predictable or not. Four children were lost in the woods, twenty years later <---C>Paul Copeland</---C> wants to revaluate this case again, he thinks that maybe his sister is still alive somewhere. The book started off with the same feeling as if I was reading Tell No On \u201cYou don't worry about happiness and fulfilment when you're starving.\u201d 2.5 stars <+++>The Woods</+++> was quite boring with nothing new to surprise me. Harlan Coben put the old materials in this book again without reconsidering whether the twists were predictable or not. Four children were lost in the woods, twenty years later Paul Copeland wants to revaluate this case again, he thinks that maybe his sister is still alive somewhere. The book started off with the same feeling as if I was reading Tell No One, but the investigation part was not interesting or engaging at all. The case he's dealing with takes the big part and I had to skip it sometimes, it's meh-ish. \u201cYou live among this ridiculous wealth and you get lost. You worry about nonsense like spirituality and inner health and satisfaction and relationships.You have no idea what it is like to starve, to watch yourself turn to bones.\u201d The problem is every single twist was predictable. I could guess what would happen after when someone did something and a new evidence just revealed itself and chaged the conclusion in your head. Coben narrated his story by following the step 1 2 3 4 5, not like his previous books, Tell No One - I was very excited all the time reading that book, and it's very much different for this one. I think I should leave Coben's works for a while after this. Frankly, this book was thrilling when there were just two chapters left for me, and it ended in a short time. https://goo.gl/pfjxNv ...more I find that if I pick up a book by Harlan Coben, I then resent anything that requires my attention, dragging me away from it, such is his skill at grabbing hold of you and playing with your mind. He really knows his stuff, able to draw readers in with ease, and he hasn't failed with The Woods. The suspense is constant, but not happy with that, he manages to turn up the action a notch further as the story twists and turns every which way! The characters are really believable too, and the dialogue I find that if I pick up a book by Harlan Coben, I then resent anything that requires my attention, dragging me away from it, such is his skill at grabbing hold of you and playing with your mind. He really knows his stuff, able to draw readers in with ease, and he hasn't failed with The Woods. The suspense is constant, but not happy with that, he manages to turn up the action a notch further as the story twists and turns every which way! The characters are really believable too, and the dialogue suits each of those characters perfectly. An absorbing tale once again. Can Harlan Coben do anything wrong? ...more Oh Harlan, you were exactly what I needed. But before I begin, let me say that this was my first Harlan Coben experience. I'll more than likely read more of his stuff. Bear with me as I explain myself. Okay, the writing was nothing spectacular; there were even times when I winced as he described something by using the item. Example: The great oak stood like a, well, great oak. Yes, this type of writing appears more frequently than I liked, but the writing is really not an issue with this type of Oh Harlan, you were exactly what I needed. But before I begin, let me say that this was my first Harlan Coben experience. I'll more than likely read more of his stuff. Bear with me as I explain myself. Okay, the writing was nothing spectacular; there were even times when I winced as he described something by using the item. Example: The great oak stood like a, well, great oak. Yes, this type of writing appears more frequently than I liked, but the writing is really not an issue with this type of book. I say this type of book, not this type of genre (or other genres for that matter.) What is really important here is the story. And, oh nelly, is this one a doozy. Striped down, THE WOODS is nothing more than a murder mystery. But Coben ratchets it up a bit, adds seemingly unrelated storylines and enough McGuffins to make even the best reader stumble on their way to the conclusion. (Sadly, I am not one of those fortunate readers that can say: \u201cI figured it out by page such and such.\u201d) There is Paul Copeland, the protagonist, county prosecutor for Essex County, a widower who has a daughter, and a relentless workaholic; then there is Lucy Gold, an alcoholic college professor with a dark secret. These two make up the main characters. The twenty or so other characters really only add flavor to the story. You see, twenty years ago, while at camp, four grisly murders took place, and Paul and Lucy have been haunted by these events ever since. Now this is where Coben shines. Instead of playing it straight, Coben adds in storylines of charity fraud, missing persons, rape, politics, the KGB, and paranoia. Sounds convoluted. And it probably would be convoluted if Coben gave the reader a chance to breath, but he never does. The pace of the story doesn\u2019t allow it. At break-neck speed, the narrative travels through numerous locales and characters to paint a mystery that is worth the five or six hours needed to read the book. I will say that some of the scenes are corny, and Coben does do a bit of proselytizing when given the chance, but overall, this is a great way to let the written word entertain. Don\u2019t seek deep messages or mind-blowing ideas in this novel\u2014they aren\u2019t there. And maybe some of the characters could have used a bit more time in the spotlight. But the plotting (and I\u2019m not usually a stickler for plot) is fun and deftly executed. Read this book for what it is: unabashed, over-the-top entertainment at its finest. RECOMMENDED ...more This was my first Harlan Coben book and I thought it was just fabulous! I'm not huge into \"mysteries\" or \"thrillers\", but when I do sit down with one this is the type of story that has everything I want in a \"page turner\" - short chapters, quick dialog, twists and turns, and narration that was surprisingly funny at times (case in point, after annoying a police officer and a prosecutor both in a matter of hours the main character concludes, \"I had itched an ass this morning and now I had burned a This was my first Harlan Coben book and I thought it was just fabulous! I'm not huge into \"mysteries\" or \"thrillers\", but when I do sit down with one this is the type of story that has everything I want in a \"page turner\" - short chapters, quick dialog, twists and turns, and narration that was surprisingly funny at times (case in point, after annoying a police officer and a prosecutor both in a matter of hours the main character concludes, \"I had itched an ass this morning and now I had burned a butt. A big day for me\"). I have a pile of books waiting to be read and could easily grab one to take to bed with me tonight. Still, I think I'll wait until tomorrow when I can run out to the bookstore and pick up another gem Mr. Coben. He's definitely got me hooked! ...more Yep, Harlan Coben is officially the king of the twisty turns. I'm completely amazed how he can weave such a fascinating mystery that can change directions nearly every chapter. Even until the very end. Well done, sir! I also loved the witty dialogue. Some of the characters had me laughing out loud. And this subject matter was not light at all. Such a page turner. 5 stars! Cheat Sheet for Writing A Harlan Coben novel: -an event that happened a long time ago that affected the lives of the loved ones -one pretty hip guy who is quick with wit and sarcasm -main character must be a professional white male who helps inner-city black characters-it's ok to throw out all stereotypes possible, as long as the main character justifies it by performing his civic duty of helping them out -add a ballsy female side-kick, and give her at least one manly characteristic (if she's no Cheat Sheet for Writing A Harlan Coben novel: -an event that happened a long time ago that affected the lives of the loved ones -one pretty hip guy who is quick with wit and sarcasm -main character must be a professional white male who helps inner-city black characters-it's ok to throw out all stereotypes possible, as long as the main character justifies it by performing his civic duty of helping them out -add a ballsy female side-kick, and give her at least one manly characteristic (if she's not lesbian, then make sure to also... -add a homosexual character into the mix -make sure to add a powerful, rich man who tries to give the hero a hard time -location to use: the woods-it's a great place to hide a crime where evidence can easily be hidden and not have witnesses; that way you can make an unsolvable murder take place that will come back to haunt the hero later on -the hero will start getting cryptic messages or emails that can't be possilble because the sender has been presumed to be dead for years -an undertone of could the hero have been the murderer? -what big secret did the presumed-to-be-dead character run away from? -an ending they never saw coming even if it doesn't quite wrap up nicely I'm sure I could probably add more, but these are just some of the points I could remember. To be fair to Mr. Coben, I have only read two of his books, the other one being \"Tell No One\". Both read at the same fast pace and with the same voice for the main character. I gave it two stars only because Mr. Coben does get you hooked into the story right away and I couldn't seem to put it down once I started reading . However as I kept reading this book, I kept noticing how similar it was to Tell No One. I began to think that somewhere in his desk, Mr. Coben has a list written out on a yellow legal pad sheet on how to write a suspenseful novel. If I used all the elements listed too, could I pull off writing a successful novel too? I wonder. The ending was not wrapped up for me as it felt like the author was trying to give it a \"mouth-hanging shocker ending that you never saw coming\". In the end, it just left me feeling that I don't ever have to read another Harlan Coben book again because I'll be left with a feeling of \"I've read this before\". ...more \u2018I don\u2019t understand. What makes you so sure your sister is alive?\u2019 \u2018I\u2019m not sure,\u2019 I said. \u2018But I think there\u2019s a decent enough chance.\u2019 \u2018Why?\u2019 \u2018Because of Manolo.\u2019 \u2018What about him?\u2019 Yes. What about him? What about any of them? I don't know, but i'm not feeling this one. The Woods should be a gripping story but I just can't care for any of the characters. It's not that the writing is bad but the dialogues are making me feel sleepy. It's like the characters want to pretend that they are telling a story \u2018I don\u2019t understand. What makes you so sure your sister is alive?\u2019 \u2018I\u2019m not sure,\u2019 I said. \u2018But I think there\u2019s a decent enough chance.\u2019 \u2018Why?\u2019 \u2018Because of Manolo.\u2019 \u2018What about him?\u2019 Yes. What about him? What about any of them? I don't know, but i'm not feeling this one. The Woods should be a gripping story but I just can't care for any of the characters. It's not that the writing is bad but the dialogues are making me feel sleepy. It's like the characters want to pretend that they are telling a story, but play act as if they cannot communicate anything to each other - and much less to me as a reader. Nope. Not feeling this one. DNF @ 40% ...more This book literally blew my mind! It kept me guessing through all the 442 pages. Yes! That's right, suspense grips the reader till the very last page. In the beginning you feel that the book is only about a murderer who killed 4 kids in a summer camp but Hell No! Paul Copeland was in the dark about a lot of things, like stuff about his mother and father and Ira and Lucy. The entire story gets twisted towards the end. The twists and turns are really unexpected and makes you want to read the book This book literally blew my mind! It kept me guessing through all the 442 pages. Yes! That's right, suspense grips the reader till the very last page. In the beginning you feel that the book is only about a murderer who killed 4 kids in a summer camp but Hell No! Paul Copeland was in the dark about a lot of things, like stuff about his mother and father and Ira and Lucy. The entire story gets twisted towards the end. The twists and turns are really unexpected and makes you want to read the book in one go. The Woods is a brilliant read! As this was my first Harlan Coben Book, I wasn't expecting much, but after reading it, I have added a lot of his books in my TBR list. Jeez, you have to read it to experience the thrill. According to me it's a must read! ...more I love some of Harlan Coben's books but IMHO this was not one of his bests. I think it could have been told without a lot of the twists that turned out to not be twists at all, just page fillers. I was attached to the main character in the beginning but became separated from him as the story went along, a little too sappy for me. Would have been a great mystery if it had stuck closer to the main story line. I read this book as a buddy read and also wanted to read it for TBR Takedown, but I did not make it for that. I knew that I would enjoy this book since it is by Harlan Coben, wow it was so engaging with such a great mystery plot line. Thoroughly loved this book. Synopsis Twenty years ago, four teenagers at summer camp walked into the woods at night. Two were found murdered, and the others were never seen again. Four families had their lives changed forever. Now, two decades later, they are about t I read this book as a buddy read and also wanted to read it for TBR Takedown, but I did not make it for that. I knew that I would enjoy this book since it is by Harlan Coben, wow it was so engaging with such a great mystery plot line. Thoroughly loved this book. Synopsis Twenty years ago, four teenagers at summer camp walked into the woods at night. Two were found murdered, and the others were never seen again. Four families had their lives changed forever. Now, two decades later, they are about to change again. For Paul Copeland, the county prosecutor of Essex, New Jersey, mourning the loss of his sister has only recently begun to subside. Cope, as he is known, is now dealing with raising his six- year-old daughter as a single father after his wife has died of cancer. Balancing family life and a rapidly ascending career as a prosecutor distracts him from his past traumas, but only for so long. When a homicide victim is found with evidence linking him to Cope, the well-buried secrets of the prosecutor's family are threatened. Is this homicide victim one of the campers who disappeared with his sister? Could his sister be alive? Cope has to confront so much he left behind that summer twenty years ago: his first love, Lucy; his mother, who abandoned the family; and the secrets that his Russian parents might have been hiding even from their own children. Cope must decide what is better left hidden in the dark and what truths can be brought to the light. I absolutely loved the synopsis of this book, and the story certainly lived up to that. And the prologue starts the story off with a band. One of my favorite things about this book was all the mystery. I loved trying to figure out who did what and then getting it wrong only to try guessing again. So glad it was not an easily predictable story. There was also 2 different storylines running in the book and I also loved that. It certainly kept me on my toes from start to finish. This book also had some great twists in it that were rather surprising, and I loved that! The characters--WOW-- I absolutely loved all of them! I loved their development, the dysfunctional families, the issues and the mysteries surrounding all of them. I loved both the good guys and bad guys. It had a great mix of both. All of them were exceptional. I actually have 2 favorite characters in this book and those would be Paul Copeland and Muse. They were both fantastic characters. I could imagine Copeland being a well established detective in an entire mystery series, even though he was a prosecuting attorney, with Muse as a sidekick. Copeland is a very strong, level headed character and still has some issues in his life which makes him somewhat flawed. Muse is that quirky yet very smart character that knows what she is doing and does not put up with stupidity or those who sport it. I would love to see a whole series made with these characters. I would have to recommend this book to any mystery lover and especially recommend to all those Coben fans. Harlan Coben has an amazing talent and now he is an auto buy for me. ...more With a debt of gratitude and writing credit to Michael K. Brett-Surman 's dinosaurs , from which I stole the format and a good many of the words from page 150. For D. Pow. Hackosaurus Rex Field Notes: HAK-oh-SAW-rus REX Tyrant Hack-Novelist a.k.a. Harlen Coben 6 feet (1.8288 metres) Psi Upsilon Frat Boy Friend of Brownosaurus Dan Current Holocene North America (New Jersey, USA) Edgar Award winner; Shamus Award winner; Anthony Award winner; never short listed for the Man Booker Prize . Hackosaurus Rex exemplifie With a debt of gratitude and writing credit to Michael K. Brett-Surman 's dinosaurs , from which I stole the format and a good many of the words from page 150. For D. Pow. Hackosaurus Rex Field Notes: HAK-oh-SAW-rus REX Tyrant Hack-Novelist a.k.a. Harlen Coben 6 feet (1.8288 metres) Psi Upsilon Frat Boy Friend of Brownosaurus Dan Current Holocene North America (New Jersey, USA) Edgar Award winner; Shamus Award winner; Anthony Award winner; never short listed for the Man Booker Prize . Hackosaurus Rex exemplifies every image conjured by the words \"hack\" and \"writer\" when they are thrown together: plot loving, pop-culture obsessed, slightly dull of expression and quick with a manuscript. It is the only hack writer who repeatedly refers to Newark, New Jersey. Evidence of this animal containing \"talent\" was scant until quite recently, and it was only in 2006 (because of the French) that important gaps in our understanding of Hackosaurus' \"talent\" were filled in (see also D. Pow's review of The Woods for a full and fair examination of this \"talent\"). Hackosaurus was one of the largest of the pontificating mystery hackosaurids. It amassed a prolific body of work. Some works by it measured as many as three hundred instances of hokey wisdom and/or pseudo intelligent proclamations per four hundred pages. By any standards, Hackosaurus Rex was a tremendous pulp writing animal. This giant was also one of the last of the non-cinematically adapted hackosaurids, though not for lack of trying. All Hackosaurus \"skeletons\" (its favourite Mcguffin), seemed perfectly suited to the big or small screens, offering inanity while pushing along a breathless pace, but after two decades of production experts remained baffled by Hackosaurus' seeming inability to achieve the Hollywood payday. Oddly enough, French filmmakers were the first to discover the joys of Hackosaurus Rex and theirs is the only adaptation of a Hackosaurus work to this day. Like other hackosaurids, Hackosaurus had a recurring character and only two functioning brain cells. The special character had a silly name (Myron Bolitar), but he was good for business and returned to Hackosaurus Rex stories whenever the animal grew bored and lazy. We have not heard the last from this beast. ...more Now this was an excellent book! So many twists I didn't see coming. I thought the characters were upbeat and seemed completely real. The plot was great. At first, it seemed to me that it was going to be a typical suspenseful thriller, but the twists in the plot made it more, especially the ending. Did not see that coming! Excellent! Libro recomendado en el Club de Lectura (Temporada de Invierno: El libro invisible) del grupo La Cafeter\u00eda de Audrey Un buen thriller, sin lugar a dudas. El autor escribe sin rodeos, directo y haciendo que los pensamientos de los protagonistas fueran concisos y claros. La lectura de este libro no se hace pesada en ning\u00fan momento, aunque s\u00ed debo reconocer que en algunos cap\u00edtulos me preguntaba si lo que ocurr\u00eda en ese momento influir\u00eda en los cap\u00edtulos posteriores o si solo era relleno. Pero s\u00ed, i Libro recomendado en el Club de Lectura (Temporada de Invierno: El libro invisible) del grupo La Cafeter\u00eda de Audrey Un buen thriller, sin lugar a dudas. El autor escribe sin rodeos, directo y haciendo que los pensamientos de los protagonistas fueran concisos y claros. La lectura de este libro no se hace pesada en ning\u00fan momento, aunque s\u00ed debo reconocer que en algunos cap\u00edtulos me preguntaba si lo que ocurr\u00eda en ese momento influir\u00eda en los cap\u00edtulos posteriores o si solo era relleno. Pero s\u00ed, influye en los cap\u00edtulos posteriores, lo cual me deja con muy buen sabor de boca finalizada su lectura. Eso s\u00ed, no me esperaba que terminara como ha terminado: (view spoiler) [Lo oculto por si acaso algunos opin\u00e1is que es spoiler: me ha gustado el final de la obra, pero me ha parecido que la \u00faltima escena quedaba a la mitad. Siempre pens\u00e9 que cada uno iba a terminar por su lado, sin embargo... \u00bfqu\u00e9 pasa despu\u00e9s? Ha sido como dejar un di\u00e1logo a medias (hide spoiler) ] . Recomiendo este libro a los lectores que buscan un thriller r\u00e1pido de leer, a pesar de que parezca algo largo, el lector llega a las \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas sin percatarse. Mi puntuaci\u00f3n es 4,5, pero como al parecer GR odia las medias estrellas, pongo 4. ...more I recommend this if you want a quick and good murder/ mystery... many twists and turns that I didn't see coming!!! Fast paced so it keeps you interested... After his return to Myron Bolitar with PROMISE ME, Coben went back to standalone thrillers with this one. It was good, although I had some doubts about the characterization. I couldn't quite believe everything I read, even though the facts were consistent. I suspect that Coben knew that if he had done more to make the characterization of certain characters consistent and clearer, then it would have telegraphed the ending. But at this pace, who really cares about characterization. It's only in re After his return to Myron Bolitar with PROMISE ME, Coben went back to standalone thrillers with this one. It was good, although I had some doubts about the characterization. I couldn't quite believe everything I read, even though the facts were consistent. I suspect that Coben knew that if he had done more to make the characterization of certain characters consistent and clearer, then it would have telegraphed the ending. But at this pace, who really cares about characterization. It's only in retrospect that I had my doubts. ...more I liked this book because it was a \"couldn't put down\" kind of book. I wanted to keep reading it to find out what's going on now. Paul Copeland is a County Prosecutor who along with his parents and sister Camille,were from Russia and moved to the US when Paul was 4 yrs old. In the present day-Paul is a widower and has a 6 yr old Daughter. Go back 20 yrs,when Paul was a teenager who helped out at a camp that the rich kids as well as the not to well off kids would spend their days in the summer. B I liked this book because it was a \"couldn't put down\" kind of book. I wanted to keep reading it to find out what's going on now. Paul Copeland is a County Prosecutor who along with his parents and sister Camille,were from Russia and moved to the US when Paul was 4 yrs old. In the present day-Paul is a widower and has a 6 yr old Daughter. Go back 20 yrs,when Paul was a teenager who helped out at a camp that the rich kids as well as the not to well off kids would spend their days in the summer. But one summer night, 4 of those kids go running off in the woods where the camp is located and end up missing. Paul's sister Camille is one of them. After an exhaustive search,2 of the kids are found dead. Murdered. But Camille (Paul's sister) is not one of those that they find. Is she alive? Is she dead too,but put somewhere else? They eventually find the person they feel is responsible due to other murders he commits elsewhere. He too, worked at that camp and at the same time those 4 kids went missing,not to mention the 2 that were found murdered. So,they assume he killed them too. But he never goes to prison for those murders. He goes to prison due to the other murders he committed. Paul's parents can't cope with the fact that their Daugher is missing. His Mother leaves them and goes...where? Paul doesn't know-his Father claims he doesn't know either. But his Father goes into those woods seeing if he can find the grave that his Daugher may be buried in. Then Paul gets word of a body that is found-he is asked to identify the body due to newspaper clippings that were found on the body regarding the incident that happened in those woods 20 yrs ago. His identification says it's Gil Perez-one of the kids that went missing that long ago night. But Gil's parents say otherwise. Who's telling the truth? Paul or Gil's parents? At the same time this is happening to Paul-Lucy who was Paul's girlfriend at the time of the \"incident\" and is also the person he was with that night-comes into play. She is now a Professor at a College-one of her assignments is to have her students write a journal (anonymously)about something that happened in their life that impacted them. A journal shows up that details almost exactly of what happened that night! Who wrote this journal and why? Lucy has since changed her name because of that tragedy due to the fact that it was her Father that owned that camp. The families of the missing kids sued him for not having better security that night. She has told no one about that night except for only 1 person-and that person is someone she trusts completely and was not one of her students. So,she tries to find who wrote this journal and then feels it's time that her and Paul should get together again (after 20 yrs) so that these mysteries can be solved. And the mysteries do get solved-with alot of twists and surprises. Was that body that was found 20 yrs later really Gil Perez? Whatever happened to Paul's sister Camille? Not to mention Paul's Mother? Was that other Camp worker who was found Guilty of Murdering those other people,guilty as well of what happened to those 4 kids that went running in the woods that night,20 yrs ago? You'd be surprised at what the answers are to some of those questions. Read the book and find out for yourself! ...more Harlan Coben's books have everything you would expect from a good Mystery writer, a good story, character development, a little humor, and a surprise ending! The Woods is about Paul Copeland, who's sister it down at a Summer camp, and walks into the woods with 3 other campers, and disappears without a trace along with another one of the campers, while the other 2 end up murdered. About 20 years later Paul who is not County Prosecutor and handling a case of his own, is approached by the Police wh Harlan Coben's books have everything you would expect from a good Mystery writer, a good story, character development, a little humor, and a surprise ending! The Woods is about Paul Copeland, who's sister it down at a Summer camp, and walks into the woods with 3 other campers, and disappears without a trace along with another one of the campers, while the other 2 end up murdered. About 20 years later Paul who is not County Prosecutor and handling a case of his own, is approached by the Police who question him about a recent murder, and that murder suspect happens to possibly be one of the victims that disappeared in the woods along with Paul's sister 20 years ago. So far, I don't think I've read a book by Coben that I didn't like, he's one of the best Mystery writers out there! Another book of his that just nailed it! One thing I picked up one, which was like when I was about 3 chapters into it that Paul Copeland and his Detective Partner Loren Muse also appear in another one of Coben's stand-alone novels, Hold Tight. I don't know if they were the same characters in both books or if they just had the same names, but their jobs seemed to be on the same line in both books. The Woods is right up there with the best of Coben! ...more I love Harlan Coben's writing. You just turn and turn the pages and before you realize it you've read a 500 page book. This is the third novel I read by him and I have many more on my to read list. Paul is haunted by the events that took place in his life more than 20 years ago. His sister and 3 of her friends go into the woods near their summer camp and they never come out. But after all these years the past comes rushing back. I loved the book and even liked the ending. i think Harlan Coben mo I love Harlan Coben's writing. You just turn and turn the pages and before you realize it you've read a 500 page book. This is the third novel I read by him and I have many more on my to read list. Paul is haunted by the events that took place in his life more than 20 years ago. His sister and 3 of her friends go into the woods near their summer camp and they never come out. But after all these years the past comes rushing back. I loved the book and even liked the ending. i think Harlan Coben more than earned his spot in my favourite writers list. ...more Impresionante! Intriga y giros inesperados! Me ha encantado! Recomendado 100% Mr. Coben sure knows how to tell a story! Very good. A standout mystery thriller that keeps the twists and turns coming. Well developed characters that you can root for, but who are certainly not perfect. I found myself irritated at interruptions that kept me from turning the pages and I think that is a pretty good recommendation. I'd not previously read anything by Coben but I'll be looking for more. Coben keeps getting better and better. I read this novel while on a 24 hour trip from Las Vegas to Hong Kong. I could not put it down. The suspense is complete. The characterizations are excellent. The plotting is superb. The story is believable, though fictional, because we have all been in families so we know all families have secrets. The secrets may not be as violent as the ones in this story but they can be as destructive as these are. Coben does a masterful job of bringing us along as the pr Coben keeps getting better and better. I read this novel while on a 24 hour trip from Las Vegas to Hong Kong. I could not put it down. The suspense is complete. The characterizations are excellent. The plotting is superb. The story is believable, though fictional, because we have all been in families so we know all families have secrets. The secrets may not be as violent as the ones in this story but they can be as destructive as these are. Coben does a masterful job of bringing us along as the protagonist Paul Copeland uncovers a 20 year mystery involving his sister, his first love, the rest of his family and many others. I was truly surprised at the conclusion and won't ruin it for any potential readers by exposing it here but I suspect you will be caught as unaware as I was. This novel, I believe, cements Coben's reputation as one of the most accomplished writer of thrillers today. ...more I accidentally started reading the abridged version of this book last month. It wasn\u2019t very good and I thought it was me, my mood, something . . . Like most abridgments it left me confused, moved too fast and seemed to be missing the best parts. Characterization was not really there and Coben\u2019s snarky humor was nary to be seen. After wasting four + hours I realized my stupid mistake and managed to track down the unabridged version at my library. It was read by the same narrator too, Scott Brick. I accidentally started reading the abridged version of this book last month. It wasn\u2019t very good and I thought it was me, my mood, something . . . Like most abridgments it left me confused, moved too fast and seemed to be missing the best parts. Characterization was not really there and Coben\u2019s snarky humor was nary to be seen. After wasting four + hours I realized my stupid mistake and managed to track down the unabridged version at my library. It was read by the same narrator too, Scott Brick. Why on earth they would chop this version up and cut out some of the best parts is beyond me. If you\u2019re getting this on audio be careful! This unabridged version was much more readable but in all honesty it definitely wasn\u2019t the best book I\u2019ve read by this author. I liked it well enough in the beginning. Paul \u201cCope\u201d Copeland, the protagonist, was a decent enough fellow. He\u2019s a single father who lost his wife to cancer and he works very hard as the county prosecutor (I think that\u2019s right) putting bad folks away with his sidekick Muse (I liked Muse, she was a tough girl who was good at her job). When they were busy finding evidence to nail a bunch of rich, entitled rapists, I was glued to the story. Even the bits that take place in the courtroom were interesting and I don\u2019t usually enjoy courtroom dramatics. Unfortunately, at some point that plot drops off the planet for a while and the space is filled with an assortment of other sub-plots that made the book feel a little overstuffed. There\u2019s a past mystery about Paul\u2019s dead sister that\u2019s come back to haunt him, an ex-flame that may or not be rekindled, then there\u2019s a trusted and beloved relative who may be up to a little shady-ness and one of the rich boys daddies is having dirt dug up about Paul. There might\u2019ve been even more going on but I started to tune out a little due to disinterest. This book got a bit too tangled up by the end for me because there was just too much going on. I probably would\u2019ve had a better time with the book if I hadn\u2019t listened to as an audio. Then again I probably would\u2019ve set it down and never picked it up again. The narration was good. Brick has a strong voice made for a hard-boiled mystery. The characterization is pretty good too but I found Paul a little too bland to carry the book (sorry but it\u2019s true). He was a nice guy who stood up for the down-trodden wee man but he just wasn\u2019t compelling enough to grab me and keep for the duration. There was some memorable humor though and it\u2019s definitely worth a read if you enjoy this type of mystery/suspense. Here\u2019s Paul talking to a client and her shifty, stinky attorney: \u201cOh I understand. They\u2019re offering money if you recant. The sum has now reached a level where your attorney here, Mr. Who-Needs-A-Shower-When-There\u2019s-Cologne, thinks it makes sense to do it.\u201d \u201cWhat did you call me?\u201d I looked at Muse. \u201cOpen a window, will you?\u201d \u201cGot it, Cope.\u201d \u201cHey! What did you call me?\u201d \u201cThe window is open. Feel free to jump out.\u201d Hahahaha, I love some good snarky sarcasm and Coben does it just right (I just want more of it!). Coben is a great writer, there\u2019s no denying it, but The Woods just won\u2019t go down as my most beloved of his work. ...more Less often you come across stories that leave you with a strange feeling...the type where you don't know whether to feel good about the story or bad... whether you can single out one person as an antagonist..a bad person...someone who triggered the unfortunate events... After reading the book, I feel the same. I can't single out one bad person...cant find one single person on whom I can put the blame for creating such havoc. Because basically none of these characters were bad. The situation that Less often you come across stories that leave you with a strange feeling...the type where you don't know whether to feel good about the story or bad... whether you can single out one person as an antagonist..a bad person...someone who triggered the unfortunate events... After reading the book, I feel the same. I can't single out one bad person...cant find one single person on whom I can put the blame for creating such havoc. Because basically none of these characters were bad. The situation that they were put in was bad. And they just did what seemed right that time without thinking about the consequences. It's only later that you realize how much that one action cost them...and you just feel sad..and helpless. This is not a story of good or bad...hero or villain..right or wrong. After reading this book, you sit on the fence with these concepts..the characters are not black and white...every single one of the characters in this book is gray. Paul Copeland is a prosecutor now. Twenty years ago, when he was a kid, his elder sister Camille was 'presumed dead' along with three of her friends in the woods - Gil, Doug and Margot. Doug and Margot's bodies were found and Gil and Camille were nowhere to be found..they simply vanished...for twenty long years..hence 'presumed dead'.. The lives of Doug and Margot's families changed..sure because their children were dead..but even more changed were the lives of Gil and Camille's families - because they simply didn't know what happened to their children! Now after twenty years, there are some new developments..and they are threatening to change everybody's lives and what they believed..crazy! absolutely crazy! All the characters are top-notch..Paul, Paul's long lost girlfriend Lucy, Lucy's father Ira, the grieving and disturbed families, Paul's sister-in-law, Paul's godfather-types Sosh, Paul's mother and father...just everybody. None of the characters are a waste of time - they all are working towards the unbelievably awesome climax..which, mind you, is saved for the last 20 pages ! Hickory Flair makes an appearance yet again...he is always so witty and intelligent. Loren Muse too is fun..as she always is. Cingle Shaker...another of Coben's favourite also makes a brief appearance..stunning and mind-blowing as she always is, Coben never pays less attention to any of his characters howsoever small their role is in the book.. The book is funny in parts..unintentionally funny..the dialogues that Paul has with himself whenever he is around his little daughter Cara are too cute.. And the side theme where Paul is fighting for a rape victim is also excellent..how he defends the victim..his ideas on crime...rape..his arguments with the accused's father who will do anything to save his boy..very crisp..to the point..and strong..loved it! Twists and turns that will drive you crazy...will keep you up at nights, The Woods is one crazy ride..strongly recommended. ...more This was an unexpectedly entertaining page-turner, though towards the end, so many plot twists are woven together in an improbable climax and epilogue that my suspension of disbelief was tested a bit. However, getting there was fun in this combination courtroom drama and suspense thriller. Paul Copeland survived a summer camp massacre as a teenager. He and his girlfriend snuck off into the woods for a little nookie, only to hear the screams of three other kids \u2014 including Paul's sister \u2014 being mu This was an unexpectedly entertaining page-turner, though towards the end, so many plot twists are woven together in an improbable climax and epilogue that my suspension of disbelief was tested a bit. However, getting there was fun in this combination courtroom drama and suspense thriller. Paul Copeland survived a summer camp massacre as a teenager. He and his girlfriend snuck off into the woods for a little nookie, only to hear the screams of three other kids \u2014 including Paul's sister \u2014 being murdered. Years later, they are sure that they know who the killer is, as a creepy teenager who was also at the camp turned out to be a serial killer who was convicted for similar crimes elsewhere. The fact that Paul's sister's body was never found means he has never really had closure, but as an adult, he's now a New Jersey county prosecutor, buddies with the Governor, and he has political ambitions. Things start unraveling when he begins prosecuting a Law & Order-style \"ripped from the headlines\" case: Chamique Johnson, a poor black underage stripper/prostitute, has accused a couple of rich white frat boys of raping her in their frat house. Their families start going after everyone involved in the prosecution, including Paul, to pressure him to drop the case. For Paul, this means digging into his past and uncovering some of the questions left unanswered when his sister disappeared into the woods twenty years ago. There are a lot of characters, a lot of twists, and a lot of revelations. From Paul reconnecting with his old girlfriend, to his ex-KGB uncle, to his interview with his old camp buddy-turned-serial killer, to the super-hottie private detectives sent out to dig up dirt, there's lots of plot and it never slows down. I had a little trouble believing the ending, and Paul was just little bit too much a combination of Perry Mason and Jack McCoy, but it was refreshing to have an imperfect but not crooked protagonist who prevails largely by not being intimidated, seduced, or corrupted. I liked it enough to try Harlan Coben again. ...more Twenty years ago, four teenagers at summer camp walked into the woods at night. Two were found murdered, and the others were never seen again. Four families had their lives changed forever. Now, two decades later, they are about to change again. For Paul Copeland, the county prosecutor of Essex, New Jersey, mourning the loss of his sister has only recently begun to subside. Cope, as he is known, is now dealing with raising his six- year-old daughter as a single father after his wife has died of Twenty years ago, four teenagers at summer camp walked into the woods at night. Two were found murdered, and the others were never seen again. Four families had their lives changed forever. Now, two decades later, they are about to change again. For Paul Copeland, the county prosecutor of Essex, New Jersey, mourning the loss of his sister has only recently begun to subside. Cope, as he is known, is now dealing with raising his six- year-old daughter as a single father after his wife has died of cancer. Balancing family life and a rapidly ascending career as a prosecutor distracts him from his past traumas, but only for so long. When a homicide victim is found with evidence linking him to Cope, the well-buried secrets of the prosecutor's family are threatened. Is this homicide victim one of the campers who disappeared with his sister? Could his sister be alive? Cope has to confront so much he left behind that summer twenty years ago: his first love, Lucy; his mother, who abandoned the family; and the secrets that his Russian parents might have been hiding even from their own children. Cope must decide what is better left hidden in the dark and what truths can be brought to the light. This book deserves the hashtag #cantstopwontstop ...more Another good Harlan Coben with a shockingly original plot. At a summer camp, 4 teenagers sneak into the woods one night, none come back, but are we sure only 4 went in? Read this story and find out. When the case is solved, is it really solved? Twenty years later, new evidence and clues emerge, creating unanswered questions as to what really happened that night. I like stand alone books like these. They give the reader something different every time. New characters, new plots, and tons of questi Another good Harlan Coben with a shockingly original plot. At a summer camp, 4 teenagers sneak into the woods one night, none come back, but are we sure only 4 went in? Read this story and find out. When the case is solved, is it really solved? Twenty years later, new evidence and clues emerge, creating unanswered questions as to what really happened that night. I like stand alone books like these. They give the reader something different every time. New characters, new plots, and tons of questions to find the answers to and you can read these in no particular order. I like Harlan Coben\u2019s writing style and creativity. Another favorite. ...more I'd give this one 4,5 stars. Harlan Coben is definitely one of my favorite mystery writers. This is an amazing read that draws you in because of the very deeply human characters and the great dialogue. I felt such a trepidation reading the last 50 pages of this book; I just didn't want to get to the end and find out how this story was going to unfold! Wouldn't mind at all to read more about County Prosecutor Paul Copeland and/or his Chief Investigator Loren Muse. Great characters!!", "Title": "The Woods"},
