{"Comments": "June 2010- if derek and chloe do not get together in this book, i think i just might die.<---F> really</---F>. September 2012- I'm always so disappointed when I finish this series. Like, \"But... what do you mean it's over? We were just getting into some major character development...\" disappointed. I almost wish this series was turned into a tv show just because I like the characters so much. <+++>The Reckoning</+++> is the final installment to <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A>\u2019s Darkest Powers Trilogy. If you haven\u2019t read The Summoning and The Awakening , I would advise you not to read this installment until you have. The Darkest Powers\u2019 world is constantly evolving and Armstrong doesn\u2019t waste her time catching readers up to what they should already know,<---M> which I have to admit</---M>, is part of what I love about her writing. I devoured this book. Read it in one setting even and I was glad to see <+++>The Reckoning</+++> took us The Reckoning is the final installment to Kelley Armstrong\u2019s Darkest Powers Trilogy. If you haven\u2019t read The Summoning and The Awakening , I would advise you not to read this installment until you have. The Darkest Powers\u2019 world is constantly evolving and Armstrong doesn\u2019t waste her time catching readers up to what they should already know, which I have to admit, is part of what I love about her writing. I devoured this book. Read it in one setting even and I was glad to see The Reckoning took us back to The Summoning eerie roots. To a place meant to be a sanctuary, but is eerily much more similar to a prison, where the do-gooders may pull a Judas, and the menaces make for the best allies. While this series may have a red-herring or two, I was so caught up in these characters and their journey that I didn\u2019t even notice them until I had read the last page. In my mind, that is a testament to good writing, to see a flaw, and not register it or care because the story is just that good. Chloe is equally impressive. She has shown tremendous growth and has somehow avoided the Mary Sue pitfall. It seems as though writers pen two types of heroines, the uber sweet, oh so pretty girl, despairing over her shortcomings as a mortal, who somehow rises to the challenge and smites everyone, becoming the bestest superhuman ever and miraculously saves the day or the oh so snide and cynical girl, jaded by everything and everyone, who has a hard edge, but somehow softens and like her counterpart, rises to the occasion and saves the day. Both types are clich\u00e9, neither apply to Chloe. Chloe is a necromancer, but as she often admits, isn\u2019t of much use unless there is a corpse nearby. She is petite, but not overly pretty, or exceptionally smart. The word that comes to mind is average. And yet, Chloe doesn\u2019t despair over things she lacks, nor does she turn into Chloe, Necromancer Goddess, though she is an extremely powerful necromancer. Rather, Chloe does what she can, and admits, that sometimes the best she can do is keep out of the way, and let those with more suited gifts run the show. Can we say refreshing? I\u2019m also enamored with Derek, who like his leading lady, avoids the stigma attached to leading men. He doesn\u2019t kiss Chloe\u2019s ass, nor is he mocking. He is honest and frank, protective and insecure, yet confident in his abilities. I appreciated the fact that Armstrong allowed him to lay into Chloe when she had made a mistake, and didn\u2019t then force him to grovel as though honesty were a sin. And I\u2019ll admit, I think Armstrong might lace her books with a bit of magic, cause she made me lust after someone, who upon first description, is very physically unattractive. That is simply unprecedented. But what ultimately garnered my attention is the stereotype that Armstrong herself manages to bypass with ease. She can write and adult series, filled with some of the best steam I\u2019ve read, and then turn around, write a book about supernatural teens, whose scenes together are so freaking sweet and endearing, that my stomach flips. Kudos. All in all, a great non-ending to a series. While there was certainly a conclusion to the trilogy, Armstrong has left Chloe's story fairly open ended to allow for more adventures with Chloe and Co, and hopefully, we\u2019ll see her again, in Women of the Otherworld. ...more I don't understand why soooo many of my friends loved this book and I just liked it. Sigh. . . I mean don't get me wrong, I totally love all of the characters in these books. I especially love Derek and Chloe and FINALLY for like two seconds at the end they kiss. Some things were answered about the supernaturals and just when they thought they might have some help, it's all cray again. There is a part where one of the ladies was going to mention something about Chloe's pendant changing colors and I don't understand why soooo many of my friends loved this book and I just liked it. Sigh. . . I mean don't get me wrong, I totally love all of the characters in these books. I especially love Derek and Chloe and FINALLY for like two seconds at the end they kiss. Some things were answered about the supernaturals and just when they thought they might have some help, it's all cray again. There is a part where one of the ladies was going to mention something about Chloe's pendant changing colors and what it meant but she never got around to it. So, if I missed something and anyone knows, please fill me in on that one. I feel disgusted that I can like characters but not like the books as much as I thought I would. I love the idea and everything but something just didn't click! What is wrong with me!!!! I think this happened in another book I read lately, loving the characters but the other stuff didn't click. I mean this book is right up my alley with ghosts and supernaturals and stuff. Sigh... I'm so glad that there are many that love this trilogy because that's what it's all about, finding what's right for you. MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more I wish I had a time machine.... The. Best. Friggin'. Series. I've. Read. In a long long long long long (<---B>you get the picture</---B>) time. I was thrilled. Super-excited. Impressed. So glad someone restored my faith in believing there could still be good books in the world. Thank you, Kelley Armstrong. You did great. I can't express with words how superb this book (and series) was. Everything about this book appealed to me. The likeable characters, the imaginative plot, the way how the love triangle was portrayed, even though it wasn't The. Best. Friggin'. Series. I've. Read. In a long long long long long (you get the picture) time. I was thrilled. Super-excited. Impressed. So glad someone restored my faith in believing there could still be good books in the world. Thank you, Kelley Armstrong. You did great. I can't express with words how superb this book (and series) was. Everything about this book appealed to me. The likeable characters, the imaginative plot, the way how the love triangle was portrayed, even though it wasn't even a love triangle. I cheered for Derek right from the start and I loved how Chloe had no clue (view spoiler) [she actually really likes him. Loves, even. (hide spoiler) ] I'm glad I stumbled upon this series. Even though the characters' age was a little too young for my taste, I enjoyed the read anyway. Loved loved loved the book. And I have a feeling that this wasn't the end. I'm sure we're in for a pleasant surprise. I certainly hope so. :) ...more I'm not going to spoil the story for you but there are plenty of good bits, in fact I noted down my favourite pages to do with Chloe and Derek: 125, 225, 242, 292, 371-2 and 390. The part in the woods with the werewolves was excellent, my eyes were glued to the pages. I love how Chloe and Derek are determined to protect each other at great risk to their own lives. This may be a young adult trilogy but it didn't always feel like it, in a good way of course. Derek calling Chloe on her mistakes and I'm not going to spoil the story for you but there are plenty of good bits, in fact I noted down my favourite pages to do with Chloe and Derek: 125, 225, 242, 292, 371-2 and 390. The part in the woods with the werewolves was excellent, my eyes were glued to the pages. I love how Chloe and Derek are determined to protect each other at great risk to their own lives. This may be a young adult trilogy but it didn't always feel like it, in a good way of course. Derek calling Chloe on her mistakes and challenging her to do better, and her accepting her own faults was very grown up, most adults have trouble with this. One of my favourite quotes from page 291-2: \"When I got mad about you leaving,\" he said, \"it wasn't because I thought it was stupid or I don't think you'd be careful.\" \"You were just worrying about me.\" An exhale, relieved that I understood. \"Yeah.\" I turned. \"Because you think I'm worth it.\" He put his fingers under my chin. \"I absolutely think you're worth it.\" \"But you don't think you are.\" His mouth opened. Shut. \"That's what this is about, Derek. You won't let us worry about you because you don't think you're worth it. But I do. I absolutely do.\" I've enjoyed this trilogy immensely. I love how Chloe has grown during these three books which only covers days/weeks. Even Derek has grown. I'm glad Simon finally made a sacrifice for his brother, after all the times Derek has protected and sacrificed for him. The story still feels unfinished with a lot of threads still hanging and secrets left unaired, that sort of thing but I understand Chloe, Derek & co will make an appearance in the next trilogy which starts with The Gathering . ...more As seen on The Readventurer I love Kelley Armstrong. I love her adult \"Women of the Otherworld\" series. I do not love her YA books, I think they are just OK reads, with overabundance of action but lacking actual plot and satisfying story resolutions. The same applies to this final book in the <---C>Chloe Saunders</---C> trilogy. Most likely, if you enjoyed \"The Summoning\" and \"The Awakening,\" I expect you will like \"The Reckoning,\" because it's basically more of the same - the same running around scenarios wit As seen on The Readventurer I love Kelley Armstrong. I love her adult \"Women of the Otherworld\" series. I do not love her YA books, I think they are just OK reads, with overabundance of action but lacking actual plot and satisfying story resolutions. The same applies to this final book in the Chloe Saunders trilogy. Most likely, if you enjoyed \"The Summoning\" and \"The Awakening,\" I expect you will like \"The Reckoning,\" because it's basically more of the same - the same running around scenarios with little story progression. Just like in the first two books, the majority of the story is devoted to the same hiding from the bad guys, figuring out if the good guys are actually good, trying to learn the nature of the Genesis project and... that's it. Although this book takes place mostly in the same house, there is the same going back and forth, planning and discussing escapes, just like in the previous two books. The story goes around in circles coming back to the Edison group each time. The novel is entertaining, but the constant action/walking around/scheming eventually gets tiresome. Some characters' miraculous appearances are surprising. Considering the villains are so quick to kill off kids, why some meddling adults are left alive and free is a mystery to me. Fortunately, \"The Reckoning\" is more like \"The Summoning\" in terms of plot, there is a more defined high point/climax in the novel, where \"The Awakening\" was 90% running without any resolution. In addition, there is also more \"meat\" to the story - I enjoyed learning more about the project the kids are a part of and about everyone's powers. I also liked the budding romance between Chloe and Derek, their relationship is written well, it is healthy (unlike many portrayed in YA literature) and the teens themselves feel real and not in the least annoying. For us, fans of Armstrong's adult books, there is a nice surprise too - a tiny bridge to her \"Women of the Otherworld\" series. The rest - well, the book is more entertaining than the 2nd in the trilogy, but ultimately it is not as satisfying as Armstrong's adult novels which all have definitive endings and completed story arcs. Even this final book in the trilogy leaves the story wide open for more sequels with many loose ends left unexplored (I wish to at least know why Chloe's necklace changes colors). I still believe (as I did after finishing the 1st book in the trilogy), that this trilogy has just enough story for one good YA novel, but instead is unwisely stretched into a series. I will however most likely read the next book in the Dark Powers - \"The Gathering,\" because in spite of the flaws, Armstrong's books are better than 90% of the YA literature out there. ...more Okay, okay, okay. Four stars. See, I enjoy these books while reading them, and its not until afterwards that I realize their faults. I get sucked into the easy writing and run-and-hide plot. Its certainly a good way to spend a few hours. This series could have been one book, because really, the plot of these books is pretty much running, hiding, moments of sexual tension, and the occasional revelation. Take a cheese grater to this series, and you might just have one excellent YA paranormal. If yo Okay, okay, okay. Four stars. See, I enjoy these books while reading them, and its not until afterwards that I realize their faults. I get sucked into the easy writing and run-and-hide plot. Its certainly a good way to spend a few hours. This series could have been one book, because really, the plot of these books is pretty much running, hiding, moments of sexual tension, and the occasional revelation. Take a cheese grater to this series, and you might just have one excellent YA paranormal. If you asked me to pick out one standout moment in this book, I couldn't tell ya. Everything just kind of blurs... So, although this book is plenty repetitive, it still gets four stars. I had a fun time reading it, and as far as YA paranormals go, it could have been worse. There is nothing offensive about it, as far as I can tell, and the characters act like teenagers, albeit wholesome ones. Four stars. And that goes for the entire series, not just for this particular book. ...more not with a bang but a whimper (I wouldn't normally write such a lengthy review for a book that disappointed me as much as this one (why waste any more time on it!?) - but the more I got to thinking about the issues I had with this book, yet more and more troubling issues kept occurring to me, and the angrier I became...so the review just grew and grew. Sorry.) Unlike the previous two installments of the Darkest Powers Series, which are driven both by plot and character development, The Reckoning i not with a bang but a whimper (I wouldn't normally write such a lengthy review for a book that disappointed me as much as this one (why waste any more time on it!?) - but the more I got to thinking about the issues I had with this book, yet more and more troubling issues kept occurring to me, and the angrier I became...so the review just grew and grew. Sorry.) Unlike the previous two installments of the Darkest Powers Series, which are driven both by plot and character development, The Reckoning is driven solely by a few of its action sequences. That a few of these scenes did keep me near the edge of my seat is, unfortunately, the only positive thing I can bring myself to say about this utterly disappointing conclusion to the trilogy. My main criticism is that the author builds up a number of compelling issues in the previous two books which are left completely unresolved at the end of the third. Of all of these, the most disappointing for me deals with the character development, particularly the romance between Chloe and Derek. I have to say, I was impressed with the build-up of this romance in the first two books. Derek and Chloe did seem to share a unique understanding of each other. And there were the necessary frustrating, yet interesting obstacles to their being together. But in The Reckoning, this romantic tension completely fizzled, in my opinion. None of the obstacles between Chloe and Derek are actually resolved, but somehow they magically seem to go away? The way I see it, the primary obstacle to Chloe and Derek being together is Derek's selflessness. This manifests itself in two concrete ways: 1) he is a genetically modified werewolf and fears he will lose control and hurt her (hence his shock and horror when he suspects that she likes him earlier in the series); 2) he knows his brother Simon has a crush on her and would never want to hurt Simon. As to the first: Derek completes his transformation for the first time, realizes he retains his basic humanity even as a wolf, and therefore assumes he'll never hurt Chloe? Too convenient. What about that evil poltergeist that haunts the house, always reminding Chloe and the others that their genetic modifications will drive them to insanity before long? What about Derek's uncontrollable strength that sometimes leads to violent outbreaks with disastrous consequences? We're just supposed to forget all of these issues, which only a few days ago were apparently so crippling that when Derek suspected Chloe might have feelings for him, he responded with shock and horror? More importantly, we're expected to believe that Derek would allow himself to forget it so that he could be with Chloe? Completely out of character for him. Really corny, really unrealistic - laughable, even. As for the second obstacle: I'm sorry, but Simon's drawing a poignant little comic to show Derek that he doesn't mind him being with Chloe is, in a word, lame. the selfless Derek that we have come to know and admire would never accept that so quickly. Plus, Derek had basically already attached himself to Chloe before Simon even gave him the comic. Don't get me wrong: I'm not saying Chloe and Derek should never end up together. I'm just disappointed that these two very serious, very compelling obstacles were erased so easily. Did Armstrong just get lazy? For me, it cheapened the romance and the series as a whole. Putting Derek and Chloe's not-so-star-crossed romance aside, there are about a hundred other issues that are unresolved. I'll just list several off the top of my head: -Chloe's father. Why keep bringing him up in the books if he's never going to make an actual appearance? If Chloe's never actually going to contact him? -Chloe's mother. Why show us glimpses of her ghost if she's not actually going to play a role? -Chloe's dream to be a film director. Personally, I found all the director/screenwriter references kind of grating. That said, this was an interesting component of Chloe, and I was kind of hoping we'd have some kind of epilogue or something showing that she didn't give it up. -Tori and Simon being siblings, and Kit being Tori's father. Why in the world does Tori never find out about this? Would have been really interesting to see her reaction. What's the point of all the build up in the previous books, of planting the suspicion in the reader's mind about it, if there's not going to be any resolution or follow through??? -Simon's character in general. What a boring, one dimensional person. I kept thinking there would be some revelation about Simon. No idea what it might be. But just something to make him more than this flat, boring, friendly preppy dude - \"Whoa, bro, cool it, bro\" - ughhhh. No such luck. -Liz. Ever since she and Chloe have that heart wrenching scene in the 2nd book, where Liz accepts that she's a ghost and warns Chloe she'll have to cross over to the other side eventually (but isn't ready yet) - I've been bracing myself for it to happen. I really thought it would at the end of The Reckoning - would have been so perfect and bittersweet. But nope! Apparently Armstrong forgot about that scene. -Chloe's necklace. Where did it come from? How was it made? How does it work? Again, I kept thinking there was going to be some back story here, some revelation. But we got nothing. Apparently it was just a handy plot device, and something pretty to put on the jackets. -The Demi-Demon. I found the Demi-Demon enormously interesting. I was very excited when Chloe had to make a deal with her so she'd help break the crew out of the Edison Group building; couldn't wait to find out what horrid things she'd have to do in return. But...she winds up not having to do anything, because in a typical manipulation of the plot, the Demi Demon is somehow sucked back down into hell, never to bother Chloe again. Seriously? Soooo boring. -The warning that Chloe and the band of genetically enhanced supernaturals will eventually go insane because of their powers. This was a very interesting and stressful part of the plot. I kept waiting for it. When's the insanity going to kick in! How are the characters going to cope!? I couldn't wait for them to support each other and show some real strength in the face of their impending doom. But, no. This never happened. One of the most interesting components of the whole story, which is, predictably, left utterly unresolved. -Rae. Seriously? We don't find out what happens to her? I really do feel like the author just got kind of bored and decided to just slap this story down as fast as humanly possible, so she could get it over with and move on to the next series. From a marketing standpoint, I suppose the content of The Reckoning doesn't really matter. Most anyone who read the first two books would buy the third just to find out what happens. But I have to say, as a reader, I find it offensive. I felt manipulated when I finished the Reckoning. As you read the first two books, Armstrong makes you think she's got some master plan worked out, that all the little hints and clues she's dropped along the way will eventually add up to something. I suppose I have only myself to blame for this disappointment--for allowing myself to have faith in this author! ...more Derek and Chloe have such a connection! I really hope they do something about it in this book!!!!! Make out.... Do the Do... BUT DO SOMETHING!!!! lol I cannot wait for this book. I just finished the first 2 and they were amazing!!!! I love Derek and Chloe...Sorry Simon. I also just got done reading the first 3 chapters of this one, it's gonna be GREAT!!! My review can also be found on Reading Lark: http://readinglark.blogspot.ca/2012/0... LOVED IT!! The Reckoning, the third book in the Darkest Powers trilogy, starts off with intensity and ends triumphantly. And all good stuff in between! Unfortunately, it's going to be hard to write a review without some spoilers... but I'll try to keep the major ones out. Where the first two books lacked in a bit of romance, it was made up for in this book! Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing ch My review can also be found on Reading Lark: http://readinglark.blogspot.ca/2012/0... LOVED IT!! The Reckoning, the third book in the Darkest Powers trilogy, starts off with intensity and ends triumphantly. And all good stuff in between! Unfortunately, it's going to be hard to write a review without some spoilers... but I'll try to keep the major ones out. Where the first two books lacked in a bit of romance, it was made up for in this book! Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing change from the typical *gorgeous* teenagers in most other stories. Chloe is described as average but it is Derek who surprises me the most at his leading man abilities. Derek is a genetically altered human/werewolf. In the first two books, he is going through a rather unattractive growth spurt fueled by the rage of hormones supposedly involved in his completing a full change to a wolf. 'Puberty Smackdown' was not kind to Derek but it seems that as he gets closer and closer to making that full change to a wolf, his attractiveness improves (and Chloe certainly notices). As much as Derek is maybe a bit of a 'bull in a china shop', some of his moments with Chloe are just so incredibly sweet. For a tough guy, he admits to wanting to have Chloe there with him while he changes -- seeing him at his worst -- and all the while, she is holding his hand or rubbing his shoulders offering encouragement. These two characters especially grow to a point where you really, REALLY care for them. I think I fell in love with Derek right along with Chloe (not that they admit to \"loving\" each other (yet)... which is another thing I liked. Their romance is now just beginning at the end of this trilogy... making it very believable. The story was full of unpredictable twists and turns -- a couple of things I saw coming but overall I was surprised by most outcomes. It was hard to figure out (for them and us) who Chloe, Derek, Simon and Tori could trust and who was playing them. They continue their life on the run... first looking for Simon & Derek's father's trusted friend Andrew for help. Once they find him, they're off to a safe house where they can plan their attack of The Edison Group's headquarters. Meanwhile, Chloe wants to go back to rescue Rae and her Aunt Lauren, if either are even still alive. Andrew's friends are also there to help teach the kids to control their abilities, however, the adults soon find out that these kids are much more powerful than they could have imagined and two of them decide on an alternative plan of action. The foursome also discovers that The Edison Group has terminated some previous experiments/subjects because they could not be controlled. So they are basically running for their lives. Chloe continues to hone her necromancer skills... Derek finally makes the full change to a werewolf and back. Tori's and Simon's powers also come in handy throughout. We also get a little back-story on some of the characters. What I loved about the ending was not only the love-story coming to fruition, but Chloe's personal acceptance. All along, she longs for her previously normal/boring life... before she could see ghosts, before she could raise the dead and control them, before her life on the run. But she slowly realizes that this is going to be her life from now on... she's a powerful necromancer and wants to try to put her powers to good use. I truly cared for these four supernatural teens and their outcomes. I wanted to see them all happy in the end, and I wasn't disappointed even though it didn't quite end the way I was anticipating. The resolutions are satisfying enough while still leaving just a couple of threads hanging for the story to be revisited in the future, which I understand Kelley is doing in her next trilogy... Darkness Rising... and I for one, look forward to it! ...more Wow, just wow! First let me begin by saying that this is one of my favroite series's that i've read. I loved it and each book had gotten better and better. If you haven't read this series then i suggest you do so. Now! This has to be my fave book in the trilogy. It had everything. Action, romance, humor....everything i've come to love about the Darkest Powers Trilogy. The characters are incridible as usual. I loved joining Chloe, Derek, Simon, Tori, Liz and sooo many others on their journey. It's Wow, just wow! First let me begin by saying that this is one of my favroite series's that i've read. I loved it and each book had gotten better and better. If you haven't read this series then i suggest you do so. Now! This has to be my fave book in the trilogy. It had everything. Action, romance, humor....everything i've come to love about the Darkest Powers Trilogy. The characters are incridible as usual. I loved joining Chloe, Derek, Simon, Tori, Liz and sooo many others on their journey. It's characters like these that make the story so captivating and what it is. Chole was such a refreshing main character! There are so many books out there where the heroine is tough and confidant and completly flawless, and....while they're usually awesome characters, it's hard to believe that anyone can be that perfect. There was never a moment in this series when Chloe was 100% brave or when certain events or issues didn't get to her. This is what i loved about her. She wasn't always brave or sure of what she was doing, but she still did her best and what she had to do. This is what made her a strong, exceptional character. One i've loved to watch grow. And Derek....what can i say about him? Awesome, strong, protective Derek. Not your typical hunk of a male lead, but a honest, haunted individual. He too wasn't what i've come to expect of a lead in a book, but i loved him for that. It was everything he was that made him so interesting. He had such a great relationship with his brother and i liked how the friendship between he and Chloe developed into something more. Their interacations were the highlight of the series for me. Chloe and Derek have got to be amongst my fave book couples ever. They're relationship was one that drew me in each and every book and had me captured from the beginning. It was a first and true love. It was very cute. They were such an odd pair, so differnt, and yet they connected beautifully. I adored how Chole fell for Derek and how he gradually let her in. It was so sweet! I'm really sad this series is over. I'd love to see it go on and on, but Kelley Armstrong had ended it on an excellent note. Most loose ends are tired up, and yet there are so many possibilities for the characters. You just know they're gonna live happily ever after........ ...more OMG! Can't wait for this to come out!! The nail-biting climax to Kelley Armstrong's bestselling YA series. Chloe Saunders is fifteen and would love to be normal. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen. First of all, she happens to be a genetically engineered necromancer who can raise the dead without even trying. She and her equally gifted (or should that be 'cursed'?) friends are on the run from the evil corporation who created them. To top it all, Chloe is struggling with her feelings for Si OMG! Can't wait for this to come out!! The nail-biting climax to Kelley Armstrong's bestselling YA series. Chloe Saunders is fifteen and would love to be normal. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen. First of all, she happens to be a genetically engineered necromancer who can raise the dead without even trying. She and her equally gifted (or should that be 'cursed'?) friends are on the run from the evil corporation who created them. To top it all, Chloe is struggling with her feelings for Simon, a sweet-tempered sorcerer, and his brother Derek, a not so sweet-tempered werewolf. And she has a horrible feeling she's leaning towards the werewolf. Definitely not normal... ...more http://inbetweenwritingandreading.blo... This book was just the right amount of EVERYTHING. As a matter of fact: It. Was. Perfect. Action. Mystery. Fear. Romance. Passion. Truths. Not-wanted truths. And Trouble. Lots of trouble. All of this and more is poured into the pages of The Reckoning, soaking every page of it. This book was a little bit more focused to the relationship between Chloe and Derek, but still keeping up with all the action. It was really fun and trilling to see Chloe struggle with http://inbetweenwritingandreading.blo... This book was just the right amount of EVERYTHING. As a matter of fact: It. Was. Perfect. Action. Mystery. Fear. Romance. Passion. Truths. Not-wanted truths. And Trouble. Lots of trouble. All of this and more is poured into the pages of The Reckoning, soaking every page of it. This book was a little bit more focused to the relationship between Chloe and Derek, but still keeping up with all the action. It was really fun and trilling to see Chloe struggle with her powers, watching every mistake the made and all the shocking things she used her powers too. From raising dead animals, to raising dead people\u2026 only to make them kill someone\u2026 By far I think this is the best book in all three. Definitely the cherry on top. And we have a milkshake xD!! But really, I though the ending was just awesome. Derek\u2019s wolfines got me cracking up and what made it even more sweet, was the constant imagine of Taylor Lautner in my mind... Come on ladies, do not pretend you didn\u2019t imagine Taylor as Derek for one second, \u2018cause I did. A Lot. *drooling* *clears throat and regains composure* Basically, this was the book. Only thing I\u2019m sad about is that it\u2019s the END. Bua!!!! The best of the best. A must read. No. Matter. What. \u2026Seriously, the cherry on top. [image error] ...more Possibly 3.5 stars? It was good, I had a lot of fun reading it and more than a few laughs and it was definitely an all together nice way to spend my time the last few days. I would certainly recommend it to anyone with a plan to sit curled up with a book and a cup of coffee for a while. But it wasn\u2019t fantastic. It wasn\u2019t a I\u2019m-likely-to-reread-these-some-day series. More a one time fling. And that\u2019s perfectly okay, certainly no skin off my nose. Not every single series can be earth-shattering. But Possibly 3.5 stars? It was good, I had a lot of fun reading it and more than a few laughs and it was definitely an all together nice way to spend my time the last few days. I would certainly recommend it to anyone with a plan to sit curled up with a book and a cup of coffee for a while. But it wasn\u2019t fantastic. It wasn\u2019t a I\u2019m-likely-to-reread-these-some-day series. More a one time fling. And that\u2019s perfectly okay, certainly no skin off my nose. Not every single series can be earth-shattering. But here\u2019s the thing: I\u2019m a little let down. Just a little. I\u2019ll explain why, but I want to talk about everything a bit, like what I liked, first. So minor spoilers from this point on. If you want some teasers to help you decide whether or not to read it by all means read on. So: Chloe. I\u2019m not going to claim that I adored her and related to her and that she now owns a place in my heart as so many other lovely heroines do. She doesn\u2019t. But she was very\u2026. real. And by that I\u2019m obviously not referring to her ability to speak to and raise the dead. I mean in attitude, her world view. Being in her head was like seeing through the eyes of a close acquaintance, who you know and understand. She was, beyond all the necromancer stuff, just an average fifteen-year-old girl. Comfortable, relatable in a way that sometimes makes you cringe and go damn did I ever think like this at fifteen, I hope not. Knowing all the while of course that yes you probably did. And so I was able to appreciate her. As far as MCs go, we all know from experience that it could be much worse. Onto the boys. Derek first. When he was first introduced in book one, I didn\u2019t take to him right away. I\u2019m obviously not the biggest fan of the whole gruff, grr grr thing. Lol that\u2019s not really fair, but come on. He just wasn\u2019t immediately likable, and he wasn\u2019t supposed to be. He was the \u201cugly\u201d semi-secretive brute of an older foster brother to the likable, supposed love interest (Simon.) But it became pretty obvious, at least to me, fairly quickly, that it was actually Derek who was going to be the love interest here. And once that happened well, the wait for Chloe to catch on was irritating. But like I said: understandable. Derek became my favorite character in the series. Yeah he wasn\u2019t perfect, the tendency to brood and control the situation and all that nonsense wasn\u2019t the best, but I got it. It made sense, especially for a teenage werewolf. Simon was okay. The comic relief. The stable one. The no-angst guy with a smile, quick to forgive and move on. Not the most layered character but nothing unlikable either. I won\u2019t say much about Tori. I liked her more in this final book than in either of the others. I\u2019ll give her a break, she had a rougher go of it than any of the rest. And she turned out to have more character development than any of them too. Liz was more of a plot device than anything and oops I just said something negative didn\u2019t I? And I was trying so hard too. Oh well, guess it\u2019s time to get into my issues. So all you who flee at the sign of major spoilers this would at last be your cue. Now. Sigh. Remember how I said I was disappointed? Here\u2019s why: -The complete and utter lack of character development in 98% of the characters. Page one book one we start with Chloe, average fifteen-year-old necromancer. Stutters. Jumpy. Afraid of her powers. Final page of book three we end with Chloe, average fifteen-year-old necromancer. Still stutters. Still jumpy (in fact that is turned into a running joke). Still afraid of her powers. Whyyyyyyy. Okay I mean sure yeah she gets slightly more confident with it and willing yada yada yada but shit man I wanted badassery. She\u2019s supposedly the most powerful necromancer who ever lived, right? Has to keep that necklace on so her \u201cglow\u201d doesn\u2019t attract every ghost within twenty miles. Capable of literally splitting open the earth and commanding an army of the dead. That sounds cool right? But she doesn\u2019t. She never has need too. She never wants to. In fact, most of the time she barely manages to defend herself. It was a let down. It\u2019s what you expect from a book one heroine, not a heroine on the last pages of a trilogy. And really, what can you expect given that the timeline for all three books is literally over the course of like three weeks or some shit like that. The only character who actually changes her original tune was Tori, and that\u2019s only because she was practically insane and unlikable and that needed to change or they couldn\u2019t use her. Kind of like how Liz needed to be dead in order to help out at convenient times. Smh. -The ending. I knew once I hit page 300 of this novel that there wasn\u2019t enough time. There wasn\u2019t enough pages. And I was right. I don\u2019t feel resolved at all. Actually, I almost fail to see what the point was. They are still on the run, still hiding from the bad guys. Yeah they won the battle, but what about the war? Where is the war Kelly? That\u2019s what I\u2019d like to know. I\u2019m just let down. -The demon tease. Lure me with something hella cool and probably more interesting than any of the other events in the series and then sike! Ha you thought we were gonna mess with demons with only 50 pages to go? Silly silly. Ugh. Anyway. It's not my intent to bash these books. I liked them. I had fun with them. I guess at the moment my standards are just a bit too high to really be reached. ...more 3.5-Really strong 'conclusion' to the series, because according to the author, \"The Reckoning is the last book in the trilogy, not the last in the series. It only wraps up the major plotline introduced in The Summoning. It is not intended to tie off every minor plot thread and retire the characters\". Not sure how I feel about that, but I think there is some potential here and I trust this author enough to go with it (for now). Chloe and Derek are adorable, and I always enjoy Armstong's character 3.5-Really strong 'conclusion' to the series, because according to the author, \"The Reckoning is the last book in the trilogy, not the last in the series. It only wraps up the major plotline introduced in The Summoning. It is not intended to tie off every minor plot thread and retire the characters\". Not sure how I feel about that, but I think there is some potential here and I trust this author enough to go with it (for now). Chloe and Derek are adorable, and I always enjoy Armstong's characterizations. Really liked the little shout out to Elena et al, I think an eventual meeting with the 'Bitten' pack is inevitable for Derek, and I look forward to seeing what she does with that. My one slight pet peeve is that characters seem to have a hard time finishing their sentences in this book, got very distracting at some points for me. ...more *3,9/5 stars* \u201cYou know children, always playing with the forces of darkness.\u201d Surprisingly, I loved The Reckoning more than I thought I would. There was little bit of everything - action and fight scenes, superpowers, friendship, romance and of course, some cool necromancer stuff. I especially liked Chloe's change through this series. From fragile little girl who was afraid to even voice her own opinion to this determined necromancer who wasn't afraid to say no anymore. \u201cGreat. So if I saw a guy st *3,9/5 stars* \u201cYou know children, always playing with the forces of darkness.\u201d Surprisingly, I loved The Reckoning more than I thought I would. There was little bit of everything - action and fight scenes, superpowers, friendship, romance and of course, some cool necromancer stuff. I especially liked Chloe's change through this series. From fragile little girl who was afraid to even voice her own opinion to this determined necromancer who wasn't afraid to say no anymore. \u201cGreat. So if I saw a guy standing still, and he wasn't wearing an old uniform, I just had to ask him to walk through furniture. If he stared at me like I was crazy, then I'd know he wasn't a ghost.\u201d And let's save a minute for the awesome side-character that was Tori. This girl can kick some ass, she has awesome witch abilities, she's feisty, stubborn, can keep her own ground and don't back off. \u201cStupid bitch,' Tori muttered. 'oh let's take the necromancer with the superpowers to the cemetery. Of course you aren't going to raise the dead, you silly girl.\u201d The romance was really light, which is - especially in YA genre - very refreshing for me. Chloe and Derek were really cute couple. Also I really like Derek's change of personality for the better through these books. \u201cYou were just worried about me.\" An exhale, relieved that I had understood. \"Yeah\" I turned. \"Because you think I'm worth it\" He put his fingers under my chin. \"I absolutely think your worth it.\" \"But you don't think you are.\" His mouth opened. Shut. \"That's what this is about, Derek. You won't let us worry about you because you don't think you're worth it. But I do. I absolutely do.\u201d I definitely want to read Darkness Rising trilogy now! ...more I devoured this book. Read it in one setting even and I was glad to see The Reckoning took us back to The Summoning eerie roots. MY review for : -> The Summoning (Book 1) -> The Awakening (Book 2) The Reckoning, the third book in the Darkest Powers trilogy, starts off with intensity and ends triumphantly. And all good stuff in between! Where the first two books lacked in a bit of romance, it was made up for in this book! Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing change from the typica I devoured this book. Read it in one setting even and I was glad to see The Reckoning took us back to The Summoning eerie roots. MY review for : -> The Summoning (Book 1) -> The Awakening (Book 2) The Reckoning, the third book in the Darkest Powers trilogy, starts off with intensity and ends triumphantly. And all good stuff in between! Where the first two books lacked in a bit of romance, it was made up for in this book! Chloe and Derek's budding romance was such a refreshing change from the typical \"gorgeous\" teenagers in most other stories. I think I fell in love with Derek right along with Chloe (not that they admit to \"loving\" each other (yet)... which is another thing I liked. Their romance is now just beginning at the end of this trilogy... making it very believable. While this series may have a red-herring or two, I was so caught up in these characters and their journey that I didn\u2019t even notice them until I had read the last page. I truly cared for these four supernatural teens and their outcomes. I wanted to see them all happy in the end, and I wasn't disappointed even though it didn't quite end the way I was anticipating. The resolutions are satisfying enough while still leaving just a couple of threads hanging for the story to be revisited in the future, which I understand Kelley is doing in her next trilogy... Darkness Rising... and I for one, look forward to it! ...more Mijn god, dit einde...! Te gek, zo ontzettend spannend ;) Wat heb ik ontzettend van deze serie genoten! Kelley, bedankt voor alles! Can't wait because the last one leaves you hanging something terrible!!! If you haven't read the series, you must. It's good. \"You need your sleep. Roughing it out isn't going to impress anyone. It's just stupid.\" Ah, Derek. Always so encouraging. The sarcasm is real with this one. ;D I told myself Simon was wrong. I'd never be dumb enough to fall for Derek. But I had. With him so close, my stomach kept doing weird little flips. It wasn't fear. It hadn't been fear for a while. I wasn't horrified and disgusted. What I saw wasn't some guy puking and grotesquely contorting. I saw Derek, in unbelievable agony and scared out o \"You need your sleep. Roughing it out isn't going to impress anyone. It's just stupid.\" Ah, Derek. Always so encouraging. The sarcasm is real with this one. ;D I told myself Simon was wrong. I'd never be dumb enough to fall for Derek. But I had. With him so close, my stomach kept doing weird little flips. It wasn't fear. It hadn't been fear for a while. I wasn't horrified and disgusted. What I saw wasn't some guy puking and grotesquely contorting. I saw Derek, in unbelievable agony and scared out of his mind. He smiled, hesitant at first, then a blazing grin broke through that made my heart stop. I recovered and grinned bad and went to throw my arms around his neck, then stopped, blushing. Before I could pull back, he caught my elbows and put my arms around his neck and pulled me into a hug. Okay guys. I'll admit to you that yes, since I first read this books about 3 years ago I've had a crush on Derek. There I admitted it! Are you happy now?!?! He's been my number 1 book boyfriend and I love him. Don't judge me. ;) I loved this series. It will always be my all time favourite! If I had to get rid of all 300 and something of my book and just keep this one, I would. <3 \"Fight,\" I whispered, and it was all I needed to say. Read- September 2015 5 stars Re read- January 2017 5 stars ...more I loved this book (the whole series actually). I would hate to have necromancy as my superpower, but Chloe handles it great - well, most of the time. She was just idiotic when there was a ghost or dead body nearby and decided to \"stick it out\". But I loved her and derek's relationship. He was supposed to be the \"jerk\" but I never really saw him that way - even in the beginning. I guess he just wasnt the typical friendly, cute, Im gonna chase after this girl until she finally gives in and says ye I loved this book (the whole series actually). I would hate to have necromancy as my superpower, but Chloe handles it great - well, most of the time. She was just idiotic when there was a ghost or dead body nearby and decided to \"stick it out\". But I loved her and derek's relationship. He was supposed to be the \"jerk\" but I never really saw him that way - even in the beginning. I guess he just wasnt the typical friendly, cute, Im gonna chase after this girl until she finally gives in and says yes kinda guy. I like how neither of them want to admit they like each other until the 3rd book - derek even getting mad cuz simon likes her and he wants him to be happy. I feel like they could have kept going with the story - well, or could have expanded on it a little more. I still dont really know what the \"cabals\" are , they were just mentioned here and there.. or what happened with the half - demon lady? I thought she might pop up again later.. but I guess they just needed an out for the character without having her turn on the kids? Idk. I really loved all the characters though, and the story was great. I especially liked how Chloe was a great main female character, just the right mix of not being the damsel in distress cant do anything for herself, but not throwing herself in the line of danger all the time and thinking shes invincible and being the damsel in distress anyway. ...more I would not have liked the Darkest Powers series had I not had all three books to read back to back. It's not that I have no patience. I do have a modicum of patience. I keep it in a jar on my desk. No, the problem with reading the Darkest Powers spaced out over the course of the three years they were published is pretty closely aligned with the problem I'm going to have reviewing them. The three books more or less equate one story. There are very few small arches to these books, the first two b I would not have liked the Darkest Powers series had I not had all three books to read back to back. It's not that I have no patience. I do have a modicum of patience. I keep it in a jar on my desk. No, the problem with reading the Darkest Powers spaced out over the course of the three years they were published is pretty closely aligned with the problem I'm going to have reviewing them. The three books more or less equate one story. There are very few small arches to these books, the first two both end just when you reach a point where you want to pause to take a breath -- not pause to wait a year. Basically Kelley Armstrong is a tease, but not in a way that keeps you coming back for more. Just when things are getting good she stops. It's like having chicken pox and asking someone to scratch your back. This person scratches all around where you actually want them to and right when she's about to hit pay dirt she stops to go answer the phone then comes back a year later and asks if you're still itchy. No, I am not still itchy get the hell out of here. If you can borrow or buy all three books at once I recommend reading them. The paranormal romance was actually pretty good in this book. It wasn't the same cookie-cutter romance we've been getting a lot of. Going to spoil. Seriously. Spoiling. Okay. You're being spoiled. Chloe has a choice between two step-brothers, one of which is an adorable half-Asian spellcaster and the other is a acne covered werewolf. It is not the obvious choice!! Also, the relationship develops in a very fluid and natural way. Chloe and Derek bond first and declare eternal love later! Seriously it goes 1 then 2. Not 22222222 oh yeah 1. I was obviously pleased. I generally liked all the characters, including Tori. The dialogue was good. It never felt false or just set up for a punchline. The characters evolved and grew. The fab-four bonded and relied on each other. In general, Armstrong hit all the right notes for me. There are, however, some problems. Before reading The Darkest powers trilogy I had only read two of Armstrong's books. Bitten and The Gathering. I enjoyed Bitten but did not continue with the series because I accidentally confused Armstrong with another writer whose series I hadn't liked. (Thank God goodreads cleared me up on that.) When I still thought Armstrong was someone else I decided to pick up The Gathering and give her another chance since I did enjoy Bitten and I'd like to read how she did with YA. I loved the atmosphere in The Gathering, the creepy suspense and questions... which would unfortunately all have been spoiled if I'd read her Women of the Otherworld series or The Darkest Powers first. Armstrong is essentially writing the same exact story over and over again from the POV of different characters. I am hardcore disappointed, but I'm not going to take it out on Chloe. The Darkest Powers series is great, just delve gently into her other books if you're hesitant to pay 20 bucks a pop for a ticket to a very similar show. ...more 3.5 One of those books that you can't help saying \"Aw, well isn't that sweet\" when you finsih it and genuinely mean it. Still had plenty of issues with it. However, compared to the first two, especially the second novel The Awakening , this one was pretty good, and better than some recently published paranormal novels. Not going to do a full review, just list my biggest complaint with this book. While it did have me saying \"Aw\" and having a slight smile on my face, that ending isn't a good one, sin 3.5 One of those books that you can't help saying \"Aw, well isn't that sweet\" when you finsih it and genuinely mean it. Still had plenty of issues with it. However, compared to the first two, especially the second novel The Awakening , this one was pretty good, and better than some recently published paranormal novels. Not going to do a full review, just list my biggest complaint with this book. While it did have me saying \"Aw\" and having a slight smile on my face, that ending isn't a good one, since this is the last book in the trilogy. Hopefully, when I start the Darkness Rising trilogy (I'll be reading The Gathering after I finish TWO MORE books) the story arc will be wrapped up. I mean, what was accomplished that ends the story? They're still in a pretty similar situation to the beginning of the book. They're still on the run from the Cabals, and the Edison Group. Nothing was really wrapped up, and there's still many questions left unanswered: is Rae really safe? Is the EG still going to keep up with their DNA modification? Compared to some series finale books, this one doesn't feel conclusive. It probably was left that way, since I know that Chloe and Co. are meant to make an appearance sometime in the DR trilogy. Now, the one thing that I actually really liked about this book: the romance. It's nothing perfect by any means, and it's not that deep and personal and life changing, but it's sweet, innocent, and feckin' HEALTHY. Chloe voices her opinions about how Derek should treat her, and he LISTENS. Not only that, but it's not the kind of relationship riddled with more angst than plot, and it's definitely not the \"Now my life is forever complete and I'll never need anything else in my life again\" kind of romance. All that I really have to say. ...more FINALLY! All I am going to say is that Chloe finally picked a guy and it was the one I wanted! Wooohooo! I don't even care what happened in the rest of the book, I just wanted that to happen and it did! First off, I am a huge fan of this series. I love the story, the characters, the world that Armstrong has created. That being said, The Reckoning wasn't my favorite book of the series. That being said, it felt like the plot was going in circles again with the whole Edison group thing. I understand t FINALLY! All I am going to say is that Chloe finally picked a guy and it was the one I wanted! Wooohooo! I don't even care what happened in the rest of the book, I just wanted that to happen and it did! First off, I am a huge fan of this series. I love the story, the characters, the world that Armstrong has created. That being said, The Reckoning wasn't my favorite book of the series. That being said, it felt like the plot was going in circles again with the whole Edison group thing. I understand that they are the 'bad guys' and that is who they are running from, but gosh... I need a new angle here or something. Do we have to go there again? The start was a little slow, especially after all that fast-paced energy we had from the last novel. Thankfully it did get better. I was not a fan of the ending. If you can even call it that? I mean the book did end, but the reader doesn't really get any closure. I read the last page and thought... 'that's the end... seriously?' There is just too many questions left unanswered and not nearly enough satisfaction. Fortunately this isn't the end... Armstrong will be continuing the series, unfortunately it's with a new narrator... so no more Chloe, Tori, Simon and Derek. I will keep coming back though, there is something insanely addicting about Armstrong's writing. Overall- fantastic series. The Reckoning wasn't my favorite, but I still couldn't put it down. ...more Oh, FINALLY. Here's what I've been waiting for, some decent, relevant action. This was a very pleasant change from the mind-numbing boringness of the first couple of books. I don't care if the group was on the run for most of the 2nd book, it didn't change the fact that it was completely yawn-worthy. In this book, the four are in a hideout and Tori and Chloe are trying to gain more control of their power while trying to prove to the adults of the resistance that they're telling the truth and the Oh, FINALLY. Here's what I've been waiting for, some decent, relevant action. This was a very pleasant change from the mind-numbing boringness of the first couple of books. I don't care if the group was on the run for most of the 2nd book, it didn't change the fact that it was completely yawn-worthy. In this book, the four are in a hideout and Tori and Chloe are trying to gain more control of their power while trying to prove to the adults of the resistance that they're telling the truth and they're not the mutant freaks they believe them to be. There is a little romance in the book, too. Nothing too much, but completely believable, given their age. Actually, I do have a complaint, and it's their age. It's a little unbelievable that all the characters are ~16 or younger. Their action and decision making skills and street savvy are much more suited to street-smart youths or at least someone older than 15. Derek and Simon's actions and streetwise is believable, because those two have been on the run with their dad for a long time, but sheltered, stammering Chloe and spoiled rich princess Tori? No. ...more This is the third and final book in the Darkest Powers series . . and it did not let me down. I fell in love with Chloe Saunders in the first book, The Summoning, and only grew to love her more with each book. In this book, to me, she grows up . . a lot. She kinda has to deal with Derek, Simon, the Edison Group, and lots of ghosts. I loved how the author made her grow up so quickly in such harh conditions; however, still be down to earth and tender hearted. I can see myself in Chloe. That's what This is the third and final book in the Darkest Powers series . . and it did not let me down. I fell in love with Chloe Saunders in the first book, The Summoning, and only grew to love her more with each book. In this book, to me, she grows up . . a lot. She kinda has to deal with Derek, Simon, the Edison Group, and lots of ghosts. I loved how the author made her grow up so quickly in such harh conditions; however, still be down to earth and tender hearted. I can see myself in Chloe. That's what made me love this series that much more, I think. Another part of the book that I loved was the tension between Chloe, Derek, and Simon. Chloe finally realized just who she loved in this book, and I am glad about the choice! The tension between Chloe and Derek gave it away for me. I loved it how they were both so protective over each other; however, they didn't act on their feeling till this book. This series was my first time reading anything by Kelly Armstrong, and I have to say it won't be my last. I am sad to see this story line come to an end, though. ...more I liked this book better than the second one, but at the end I am very frustrated! There are soooo many plot holes and unanswered questions! Is there going to be another book, or did the author just choose to leave all this unanswered? I would have given this 2 1/2 stars. I did enjoy these books, They are quick, fun reads, and she develops the young characters very well. I really love the personalities of all the kids, they are well thought out and believable. On the whole, this series would hav I liked this book better than the second one, but at the end I am very frustrated! There are soooo many plot holes and unanswered questions! Is there going to be another book, or did the author just choose to leave all this unanswered? I would have given this 2 1/2 stars. I did enjoy these books, They are quick, fun reads, and she develops the young characters very well. I really love the personalities of all the kids, they are well thought out and believable. On the whole, this series would have been one good book. It suffered by being split into three, and shoved full of filler. **Spoilers below*** It is driving me nuts that the series is over and at the end of this book we still don't know: What happened to Rae and why her mother's name was the password for the doctor's computer. Tori and Simon are siblings, but Tori never found out. What exactly does Chloe's necklace do and why did it change color? Why was the lesser demon trapped in the Edison group building. I really didn't get it, other than as a plot device to help Chloe escape. Where has the boy's dad been for so long, and what has he been doing? ...more I can't wait to read this!! I'm really excited because i read the first two and it's really interesting. I want to know if Derek and Chloe get together and if Chloe's father will ever find out about this and if Aunt Lauren is okay.", "Title": "The Reckoning"},
