{"Comments": "ALL THAT I CARE ABOUT IS REPHAIM AND STEVIE RAE.<---F> NO ONE ELSE</---F>. I THINK I AM IN LOVE WITH A HALF BIRD HALF MAN........WOW. I'm sorry, but I've had just about enough of HoN. Zoey annoys me, the way they write Stevie Rae's accent ticks me off (<---B>I'm a Southern Girl</---B>), Kramisha sounds uneducated (we know she is educated) and the way the Casts portray Jack and Damien suggests that they've never actually met any gay men. I swore I wouldn't read any more of this series after reading the 7th book, but I read this one because I had invested too much time in the series. I wish I would have stuck to my original plan. One of the I'm sorry, but I've had just about enough of HoN. Zoey annoys me, the way they write Stevie Rae's accent ticks me off (I'm a Southern Girl), Kramisha sounds uneducated (we know she is educated) and the way the Casts portray Jack and Damien suggests that they've never actually met any gay men. I swore I wouldn't read any more of this series after reading the 7th book, but I read this one because I had invested too much time in the series. I wish I would have stuck to my original plan. One of the few good things in this book is that Zoey only had one boyfriend this time, but I cannot understand the Casts' obsession with Heath. I can't stand Heath and I was so happy when they killed him off. Why couldn't they let him stay dead??? I like Stark. I've always liked Stark. Zoey should be with Stark. Now they've foreshadowed him becoming \"evil\". Also,<---M> I am so tired of reading \"bullpoopies\"</---M>, \"heehees\" and \"I heart me some...\". Aphrodite is the only good thing about HoN, but she's not enough to keep me interested in reading any more of these. So, to the Casts: you should have stopped three or four books ago. HoN has officially exceeded stupid and 12 of these horrific installments is beyond the definition of the word \"overkill\". ...more Book Review ***contains spoilers*** Pros 1. Rephaim was finally turned into a human being and OH MY GOD they finally kissed!!! Idk I can't really expressed my emotions about it. I really love that part, aaaaaaaaaawwwwww, it was just so sweet and I cried reading it. 2. Heath was back and it was very shocking. I love love love the twist on Heath's character and I really was excited for the next book because of it. 3. Kalona can actually go to Stark's body and they're like connected somehow. So okay he Book Review ***contains spoilers*** Pros 1. Rephaim was finally turned into a human being and OH MY GOD they finally kissed!!! Idk I can't really expressed my emotions about it. I really love that part, aaaaaaaaaawwwwww, it was just so sweet and I cried reading it. 2. Heath was back and it was very shocking. I love love love the twist on Heath's character and I really was excited for the next book because of it. 3. Kalona can actually go to Stark's body and they're like connected somehow. So okay he found it out when he was actually going to Zoey's soul/mind but what happen was he goes into Stark's. In that moment actually when Kalona do that, Zoey and Stark were like having sex and then OMG it was funny *inserts my uncontrollable laughing here* idk when I read that scene I can't stop laughing. OMG *head desk* honestly the way I imagined it was pretty hilarious like Kalona goes into Stark and Stark was like idk having an \"orgasm\" *insert my uncontrollable laughing here for the 2nd time* and because of \"too much pleasure\" the connection broke off *uncontrollable laughing continues*... 4. I also love the part when Neferet make an alliance to the white bull. I think it was also a pretty nice twist that I was anticipating for the next books. Idk I felt like it was a bit funny and also a bit \"erotic\" (or maybe it was just me *wearing my I'm a perv shirt* -kidding-) that Neferet was naked all the time when she was talking to the bull and I find it very shocking that she was naked (repetitive much?) but then she was like riding the bull. That was just deeeeescuuusssstttiiiiinnngggg! Cons 1. Too much pop culture references. I was literally pissed off by the constant mention of Glee, Trueblood etc. because I can't relate what the heck are they talking about since I don't watch TV shows anymore. Also I felt like it made the writing lazy and crappy since these conversations were unnecessary, and will not contribute to the plot and character development. It appears to be a waste of pages and also this is just \"stereotyping\" and the authors violated this rule \"Show not tell.\" 2. Grammatical mistakes. I was shocked that I noticed not 1 but 5 grammatical errors though I didn't have the book right now, so I'll mention stuff but I can't put pages on it. -What it is? should be What is it? -They's should be They're -Forgivens should be forgiven 3. Zoey and Stark were incredibly horny characters. It was just annoying, actually I could have given this book 5 stars but <---C>Zoey Redbird</---C>, you just ruined the book for me. Zoey was like this \"Okay so Heath died\" --mourn for a moment-- and then --she get over it-- and then --she moved on-- and then \"I wanna have sex with Stark btw.\" She's just really idk *head desk*, she's incredibly horny and also have an amazing bad history of sex. First she lost her virginity to Loren Blake who happen to just have sex with her because he was Neferet's lover and he didn't care about Zoey at all but Zoey thought that Loren loves her and blah blah blah *too lazy to elaborate* and then in this book she had sex with Stark and Kalona (as mentioned above, see Pros #3). Btw should I considered that a threesome? Kalona-Zoey-Stark threesome? Whaddya think? 4. Horrible dialogues. Zoey- \"Bull poopie\" and \"Hee hee\" The queen *who I forgot the name*- awful accent -some lines are cheesy: RephaimxStevie rae, DamienxJack, ZoeyxStark But still, still, still will read the next book up until the last book >.< This is guilty pleasure ladies and gentlemen. I'm addicted to it but I admit the books were crappy but I love 'em because they're funny, entertaining and I love Rephaim and Stevie rae's love story. I'm such a sucker for Beauty and the Beast type of love stories. Yeah these two are the sole reason I'm still hangin' up. ^^ Short Review Okay I think this book is more of a filler and the things happened in this book was like just the beginning of a new conflict to the series. I'd really love to give this one 5 stars but there are just so many things that I really didn't like about it. *sighs* I just wanna say that this one is a classic example of actually a great plot/idea however it was written and executed very poorly. My in depth review tomorrow. Random Babbling before I Read the Book I HAVE NOW IN MY HANDS THE COPY OF THE BOOK *drumrolls* WILL READ AFTER MATCHED ________________________________ hey guys i just found this book trailer on youtube and I'm seriously freaking out right now. The vid says kalona and erebus are like two souls that are separated? Is this true? Is the ARC available yet? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IsAPPn... _______________________________ I want to know more of Kalona's back story. Also want to have perspective coming from Neferet this time. More stevie rae and rephaim on this book. _______________________________ OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD.OH MY GOD. *deep breaths, deep breaths* Rephaim was the one on the cover!(Rephaim's reflection on one scene of Burned!) I wish he will be human next time! Gosh I'm so excited for this to come out!!! ...more okay to everyone who is opposed to strong language i suggest you not read this review. But i just gotta get this off my chest. Just what the FUCK does P.C Cast think she is doing? okay i was extremley happy to get my copy of awakened, and was sooooo happy when i read zoey and stark did it (i mean i have had ALOT of fantasies about that, usually with me in zoey's place), but then P.C cast is just going to ruin their relationship by adding this \"totally gorgeous\" vessel! I mean did she really have okay to everyone who is opposed to strong language i suggest you not read this review. But i just gotta get this off my chest. Just what the FUCK does P.C Cast think she is doing? okay i was extremley happy to get my copy of awakened, and was sooooo happy when i read zoey and stark did it (i mean i have had ALOT of fantasies about that, usually with me in zoey's place), but then P.C cast is just going to ruin their relationship by adding this \"totally gorgeous\" vessel! I mean did she really have to make him hotter than stark? Just exactly how many hot guys are there, in this world together in one area,-none the less Oklahoma????? And i guess by her writing that little part from stark about how he dosent care that zoey is with other guys...uhhh I CALL BULLSHIT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! What guy on this eath would want the gf that they are oh so serious about to be with other guys. None the less why would any guy be attracted to this whore???????????? Zoey better be pretty fuckin GORGEOUS to be causin all of this drama... And another thing... Why the fuck is heath back in the story???? okay it was sad in Burned blah...blah....blah.. we cried what the fuck ever....we were depresse for a day whenever we thought about the ending of the book....BUT WE GOT OVER IT! and then youre just gonna randomly throw him back in the story!!!! and she just HAD to make him strong, and POWERFUl and a GREAT fighter!!!! NOT OK!!!!!!!!!! How about you stick with what you have and add on to Stark's strength.?!?!?! huh.? how about letting him defeat kalona/neferet????? i repeat.... NOT OK!!!!!!!!!! Its fucked up! Heath better sacrifice himself in the last book or something to protect zoey, or i am going to hop inthis damn book and kill him all over again! ...more After the last book, I am so excited for this one. Stark and Zoey are definately going to end up together. No doubt about it. But Stevie Rae and Rephaim. I want Rephaim to turn into that boy he was in Aphrodite's vision. Stevie Rae deserves to be with the one she loves! Ugh. Neferet and Kalona. No one likes them, but even after everything that's happend, I can't help but feel bad for Kalona. He's stuck with Neferet forever. Could his punishment get any worse? Yikes- this series really is a train wreck! I really gave up all hope of these books getting better about five books ago but I've made it to book eight and just can't look away from the disaster. They are so bad it's almost amusing. Firstly, I find it highly ironic that the Casts dedicated this book to ''LGBT teens everywhere'' given the fact that the two gay characters in these books are walking stereotypes. They are not presented as gay characters- they are presented as girls! Called Queen Dam Yikes- this series really is a train wreck! I really gave up all hope of these books getting better about five books ago but I've made it to book eight and just can't look away from the disaster. They are so bad it's almost amusing. Firstly, I find it highly ironic that the Casts dedicated this book to ''LGBT teens everywhere'' given the fact that the two gay characters in these books are walking stereotypes. They are not presented as gay characters- they are presented as girls! Called Queen Damien and Miss Jack. Told they don't ''count as guys because they're gay.'' Jack spends his time fainting, crying, giggling, squealing etc. There is only one major scene in <+++>Awakened</+++> where Damien, Jack and all the gang are together and it is shockingly bad- every sentence is mentioning that they're gay- we get it, we've known for the last eight books! This, coupled with the ''dedication'', only further validates my opinion that the Casts are just looking for a pat on the back for having gay characters. Zoey is worse than ever! She really is the biggest Mary Sue I have ever come across in YA literature- it's appalling and I think she sets a terrible example for any younger teens who might be reading these books and thinking this is actually acceptable and healthy behaviour for a 16 year old girl. As usual, she has all the guys falling all over her. Stark is just a male version of Zoey. They have nothing in common and their relationship is so over the top and cheesy. I was cringing at many of their conversations. We're on book eight and Zoey still can't let go of Heath yet at the same time she has no problem going with some other guy. Of course Erik had to forgive Zoey, even though she's never been anything but awful and unfaithful to him. I just don't get why he still sees her desirable even as a friend. Zoey gets everything she wants in this book and acts like a spoiled five year old! She's apparently all powerful and chosen and everything... yet she runs off to an island and basically says ''I'm just going to stay here so I don't have to deal with any of my responsibilities'' and leaves her friends alone to deal with it. I'm so over Kalona. And Neferet. And Rephaim and Stevie-Rae. These plots and relationships are SO overdone at this stage! Kalona hasn't interested me since the first time he entered the series. The whole Neferet thing is so played out- it just keeps going back and forth. Stevie-Rae and her bird-lover is just, well, creepy. Every time any of these characters started narrating I just switched off. Aphrodite has really been pushed into the background which is a shame! By the time we got to page thirty, I had counted 9 times in which Zoey and her gang had insulted, mocked and shamed Aphrodite. It's just appalling. Sure- there's a personality clash there- but Aphrodite has been nothing but helpful to them for books upon books. Zoey decided she was a slut at the beginning of book one (for doing nothing bad at all) and even though Zoey has done ten times more things with ten times more guys, while Aphrodite is with one nice guy, Aphrodite is still the slut and the one who is beneath the rest of them. It really sucks because she's the one decent character left. Zoey and her friends need to grow up and realize they're not funny or witty- just mean and immature. The switching of narrators is so bad- it's obviously just because the Casts can't handle writing a book without showing the plot from every single angle, thereby leaving no questions at all. It's really annoying. And this book is going date so bad! It's all pop culture references, especially for the first half of the book. They mention Glee, True Blood, iPods, Anita Blake, Twitter... the first 50 pages are like an advertisement. Overall, yeah, it's bad but I can't look away after making it this far and now I'm just wondering how bad it can actually get. For more of my reviews and recommendations, visit my blog: here ...more A couple of months ago, I was obsessed with the House of Night. But so many books have passed my hands between then and now. Now I wonder what I saw in them that just clicked. I\u2019ve heard that others disliked the series from the start because the language was unrealistic and a couple of characters trite etc, etc. Yet, I enjoyed the books nonetheless. Having read AWAKENED I find myself re-evaluating my position\u2026 some non-issues just woke me up. Has Stevie rae always read like that? Are twelve book A couple of months ago, I was obsessed with the House of Night. But so many books have passed my hands between then and now. Now I wonder what I saw in them that just clicked. I\u2019ve heard that others disliked the series from the start because the language was unrealistic and a couple of characters trite etc, etc. Yet, I enjoyed the books nonetheless. Having read AWAKENED I find myself re-evaluating my position\u2026 some non-issues just woke me up. Has Stevie rae always read like that? Are twelve books to long for one series? Were there that many pop-culture references in the previous books? Apparently Stevie Rae (and all the others in the book) have always been like that. I get that some authors connect with readers by being \"in the now.\u201d = lots of slang. BUT, why on earth did I not notice until now? And as to my second question, me thinks twelve is too long. I\u2019m losing interest and experiencing the same thing I feel when a new TRUEBLOOD episode comes out (peace Sookie fans!) It just seems that with every book some new element is added, and I just don\u2019t see how everything will be tied up in the end. A couple of non-issues dragged my rating from a 3. to a 2.5 too. One of which is why do pop culture references work in some books but not in others (here)? P.S If you're a fan of HoN, you get more of the same stuff here. P.P.S It blurs the lines between YA PNR and adult PNR... (Hmmm... I guess the characters are developing after all!) ____ I am so irritated by some things that I can only express myself in Filipino: Alam kong di ito ang pocus ng libro pero pabalik-balik ung utak ko dito (...maski nung nasa Chapter 15 na ako.) Bakit sa ibang libro OK ang pop-culture references pero dito hindi? At, ako lang ba ang naka-feel na napaka-pilit ng pag-lay ng groundwork sa GLBT lit? Isang bagay na nagustuhan ko sa KONLT at R.Cohn/D. Levithan team-ups ay ang \"matter of fact treatment\" ng topic na ito, pero sa <+++>Awakened</+++> feeling ko \"laying the groundwork\" towards the demise of one charry lang ito... OK. Sa totoo lang, mas maganda ang ineexpect ko...! GRRRR! ...more What the...? If this is supposed to be Rephaim then why does he have a nose? It clearly states in one of the books he has a beak? I'm starting to think this is Kalona. Dang. Hopefully Stevie Rae and Stark get their happy endings and I hope to god that Dallas electrecutes himself. That would just be comica(: I also swear to \"Goddess\" hehe. That if Zoey hurts Stark by getting involved with other boys I am going to kick her mortal butt. I am sick of how much of a sleeze she is. Heath is dead, The P What the...? If this is supposed to be Rephaim then why does he have a nose? It clearly states in one of the books he has a beak? I'm starting to think this is Kalona. Dang. Hopefully Stevie Rae and Stark get their happy endings and I hope to god that Dallas electrecutes himself. That would just be comica(: I also swear to \"Goddess\" hehe. That if Zoey hurts Stark by getting involved with other boys I am going to kick her mortal butt. I am sick of how much of a sleeze she is. Heath is dead, The Poet guy is dead, and stupid Eric is out of the picture. Please Ms. Cast! No more guys! Just a healthy relationship between Z and Stark. Kk? ...more Well. What can I really say? The House of Night was the first vampire book series I had read and while it has a good plot, I feel like the books have spiraled down to disappointment since Untamed released. None of these recent books have had the feel to them that Chosen and Betrayed had. Stark is a total Gary Stu and Zoey is nothing more than a Mary Sue who has to be defined by a man (or some guy by her side) for her to feel 'powerful'. I thought that High Priestesses were all about feminine powe Well. What can I really say? The House of Night was the first vampire book series I had read and while it has a good plot, I feel like the books have spiraled down to disappointment since Untamed released. None of these recent books have had the feel to them that Chosen and Betrayed had. Stark is a total Gary Stu and Zoey is nothing more than a Mary Sue who has to be defined by a man (or some guy by her side) for her to feel 'powerful'. I thought that High Priestesses were all about feminine power but if they need a man by their side then there's nothing powerful about it. I strongly dislike the fact that the authors seem to be catering to the fans of Zoey/Stark since their relationship makes no sense whatsoever. They met in Untamed and they're soulmates in Hunted? Seriously, WTF?! Love at first sight books are full of EPIC LAMENESS. I will read Awakened just to see if anything will change but my hope for this series is gone. (As a sidenote: Rephaim and Stevie Rae's relationship is creepy as hell. Why would anyone say they think Rephaim is hot when he killed an innocent woman, has a beak, and looks like a big bird with human legs? Really? Is that the new teenage wet dream? If so, then that's gross) Addendum: Oh my goodness. I was pissed beyond belief before reaching page 100. Please prepare for a much longer review! One with very angry thoughts. I will probably abuse the capslock too but OH WELL. This book deserves it. I am LIVID right now. EDIT: Now for my review. This book pissed me off in the worst possible ways. I couldn't believe some of the things that went on. The first thing that pissed me off was Zoey in the beginning. She chooses to stay on the Island of Skye so she doesn't have to deal with the troubles in Tulsa or the path that Nyx has given her. I wanted to slap Zoey because she chooses to avoid her responsibilities just so she could have sex with her boyfriend Stark every night. Oh, and she just came back from the Otherworld after saying goodbye to Heath who died because of her. So she said goodbye to one boyfriend and is now fucking the other. Go Zoey. You're not a whore. Not at all. *Eyeroll* Back in Tulsa is where something horrible happened that brought me to the edge of tears (but I never cry at books - I just get seriously pissed): Jack dies. Yeah, Jack. The cute blonde kid, possibly the sweetest character ever in this series. He is killed by Neferet as her sacrifice to the debt she owed him. I was pissed beyond belief. This all happened within the first 100 pages of the book, too. What really sucks is that Damien, Jack's boyfriend, witnessed it too. It sucks on so many levels. First, Damien and Jack were lucky to find each other and then they're seperated by a murder done by an evil bitch who needs to seriously go DIAF. Why do authors feel the need to kill of their sweetest characters? Do they think it's a good idea? I have to say a big HELL NO to that. My respect for authors are gone when they pull stunts like that. Cassandra Clare did it to Max in her TMI books and now PC & Kristin have done it to poor Jack. His death was UNNECESSARY. It broke my heart into a million tiny pieces. The characters that annoyed me most in this book: Stevie Rae, Aphrodite, Kramisha, Neferet, Zoey, Stark, and Dragon. I wanted to shake all of them and asked why they were being such dumb asses. Maybe hating on Kramisha is a little too out there but the dumb bitch was making fun of him before he died. She may not have been doing it to his face but it still pissed me off that she was talking about him like that and referring to him as 'gayboy'. Bitch, please. You need to get Hooked on Phonics. However, the other characters do deserve major hate. I don't know what was up with Stevie Rae but she was bipolar to almost everyone and I don't even know why she's a High Priestess. She's not a very good one. Aphrodite was a bitch to everyone and she doesn't deserve the respect she gets from fans. I like her to a certain extent but after a while her bitchy ways start to piss people off. Zoey is off dilly-dallying on some island with a guy she barely knows ignoring everyone back home just so she can take a 'break'. OK, yeah you've faced some hard times but you have things to do and vacationing on some island with your *boyfriend* (who you've only known for a few week jsyk) is not the right thing to do. I can't believe it took a death to make her come back. People die because of Zoey and instead of trying to stop it, she runs away. Erik Night gained back the respect he lost from me in the past two books. Jack's death seriously hurt him and even Zoey herself said that he'd been arrogant and possesive but there was still something good inside him and maybe if she hadn't treated him so horribly, he would've been different. I still stand firm on the belief that if he hadn't had two shitty ex-girlfriends, he wouldn't have been a jerk to Zoey. Just saying I understand where this guy is coming from. Too many people have died in these books. I know that killing off characters have become popular for authors to write but it wasn't necessary for this book. Nolan, Loren, Anastasia, Heath Luck, Jack, and now Zoey's mother Linda have all been killed off and for what? What does it serve? Nolan and Loren's death in the beginning of the series (when the books were really good) were used to start a war between vampyres and humans. Anastasia was killed by Rephaim. Heath was killed by Kalona because Kalona is also an evil douchebag who needs to seriously get off his high horse and get his act together. But Jack and Linda's death were seriously two of the most unecessary plot points ever written. ...more I want this just so I can take a dump on it and mail it back to the Cast family!!! Seriously, worst series ever! Another one? :/ Warning: There is a lot of negativity in this review. Please don't get all \"If you don't have anything nice to say DON'T SAY IT AT ALL!\" Please. The point of reviewing is to share one's personal thoughts of the book. The point is to share the opinions even when they differ from others. Because they're opinions . It really doesn't take any longer to rant than it does to rave, and either way it's to express strong thoughts and feelings. I want to express myself. Besides, I'm typing all this on my no Warning: There is a lot of negativity in this review. Please don't get all \"If you don't have anything nice to say DON'T SAY IT AT ALL!\" Please. The point of reviewing is to share one's personal thoughts of the book. The point is to share the opinions even when they differ from others. Because they're opinions . It really doesn't take any longer to rant than it does to rave, and either way it's to express strong thoughts and feelings. I want to express myself. Besides, I'm typing all this on my nook during free time at school so I'm not exactly missing anything. Now, first order of business - LOOK AT THAT COVER! I DEMAND THEE TO LOOK AT IT! I swear the covers are the best part of the series and this is my favorite. It's gorgeous and it's my bird boy; who remains to be pretty much the only character I really like. The Destined cover sucks though. Just saying. Now I move onto my very long explanation of my feelings on this series since Marked . I'd really rather not do eight separate reviews so I figure I'll combine them all here. First of all, to summarize my feelings of HoN: I didn't like Marked . I really didn't. At the time I suffered from an OCD of finishing any series I'd started and that's pretty much the only reason why I moved onto Betrayed . Also... I was not aware it would be 12 freaking novels . I continued beyond the sequel because it did get a little better with each book. I even found myself starting to enjoy the series to some sick extent. The Cast can't hardly write decent characters but they do have an interesting mythology to their world. In the beginning I was very intrigued by the idea of Wiccan-like vampires, as well as the other crap they kept adding. Sadly, the series has dragged the plot through the mud and back. Zoey and the gang rarely solve anything while villains and problems just keep coming. It's hard to believe they haven't been sleeping for the past eight books for all the progress they've made! Along with that, the mythology that once interested me has been piled and piled onto and is now a mess. I all but smashed my head against the wall when they decided to add fae into the mix at Awakened (or perhaps Burned since sprites were mentioned). What's the point? Eight books and you've decided to add a completely different species out of the blue for no particular reason at all? I think the Cast team bit off more than they could chew with a 12 book contract and are just trying to stretch it as thin as possible to fill the requirement. It's all probably connected - which is why it's been able to hold me thus far - but now I'm just tired of it all. It's the story that never ends and can no longer make up for the horrible characterization and teen drama. And yes, the characters are awful and only get worse. I think I might have just gotten used to it; perhaps in the same way one might get used to a foul odor if they deal with it long enough. Must have not been as accustomed as I thought because it did get to me. My main problem is the protagonist: Zoey Redbird. I've actually hated her from the beginning. She's the beautiful Chosen One of the Goddess Nyx- meaning Nyx basically just decided to make her the most powerful fledgling/vampire in history by gifting her with all 5 elements. Most vampires only get one gift (if they're lucky) but Zoey gets five right off the bat for no particular reason except she's just that super uber special. After becoming chosen, Zoey transfers to her new school. It's there she immediately gains a group of friends. It's there she brings down the seemingly untouchable Queen Bee. It's there she quickly becomes the leader of the school's most prestigious club. It's there she takes on the esteemed role of High Priestess in training. It's there she begins a relationship with literally the hottest guy in school, while her ex continues to pine for her as if she herself is a goddess. This is all just the first book. The first 306-paged book. By this point I know I've been exposed to the worst case of Mary Sue since Twilight . In fact, now that I think of it, both these chicks are vapid lovers of prissy vamps and have last names relating to birds. How precious. Zoey really just gets worse from there. I pitied her at some points but that was largely due to my own deep hatred of Nefret and Heath. Truth is: Zoey is immature, hypocritical, shallow, and stupid. She judges and complains about anyone different from herself. I was particularly offended by her sneering of goths, or rather, \"losers\" as she calls them. I've never considered myself goth but I've always loved black, spikes, and skulls so people typically assumed I am, or used to. I was criticized by other kids in both middle and high school for being \"the creepy goth girl.\" Thankfully, I haven't had to deal with that in recent years but I haven't forgotten about it. It made me sympathetic towards kids who really are goth, to say the least. The protagonist is supposed to be someone you can relate to, not your bullies. And isn't at least one goth going to pick up a vampire book? Not to be stereotypical but... seriously!? Zoey certainly has the makings of a bully, such as stressing her positive qualities in light of others negative qualities. Like how she's not like \"those freak anorexic girls\" or those girls \"with the raccoon eyes.\" Alright, Zoey. We understand you're not like those silly girls with the horrible mental illness that kills millions of teenagers every year. And thank you for reminding us what FREAKS they are! And, like, no way! It's so interesting how thin you apply your eyeliner. The fact you're specifically not like the \"raccoon girls\" makes me like you more as a person. To make a point of how both judgmental and hypocritical she is: The slut bashing. She talks trash about girls she finds slutty and loves to chortle about what a \"skanky ho\" Aphrodite is. Girls like that are bellow Zoey, who would never do anything that's considered slutty. Oh no! She might be getting into sexually charged bloodsucking with her ex while flirting with her teacher but that doesn't make her disloyal to her current boyfriend! In all seriousness... this girl is ridiculous when it comes to men. I remember her saying something along the lines of: \"It doesn't feel like I'm a slut, it feels like I'm attracted to multiple guys.\" No, honey. Just no. There's nothing wrong with being attracted to multiple people at once. It happens. However, it is wrong to act on that attraction while in a relationship. Zoey basically accepted the idea of having \"three boyfriends\" like it was an accident. Her \"official\" boyfriend was Erik, who had no idea she was involved with Heath and Loren. You guys remember Loren, right? The teacher who Erik caught shaking up with Zoey? She cheated on him, plain and simple and yet... amazingly, they make ERIK the bad guy for being angry. Yes, he said some harsh things to Zoey but for crap's sake he walked in on her and Loren in a naked embrace! It's bad enough to know you've been cheated on but it's got to be so much worse to actually see it. If the situation had been reversed, Zoey and her friends would no doubt be spitting fire about what a jerk Erik was for sleeping with some \"ho-bag.\" But the situation isn't reversed. Instead her friends comfort her from the big bad (now ex) boyfriend. I'm not even getting started on Kalona and Stark. There just aren't enough characters allowed on goodreads reviews for me to go on and on about how Zoey is a classic TSTL protagonist that attracts unrealistically gorgeous men just by breathing... or that she develops an attachment to one of them despite knowing he's a thousand or so year old serial rapist and murderer. In a sense, I understand the circumstances made it difficult for her not to have an attachment. Even so, she allowed herself to be unnecessarily vulnerable and trusting towards someone she knew was the enemy. It took him killing Heath in front of her to finally accept he truly was evil. A lot of people dismiss her messing around with different guys because it's acceptable for a High Priestess to have a warrior, a human consul, and a vampire lover. This could be a legitimate part of their culture but it also sounds like an excuse. Keep in mind she didn't even find out about this until AFTER the Heath/Erik/Loren fiasco so it's not as if she was just embracing customs. It really could have always been part of the plan, but at the point of revelation it's as if the authors were just yelling: \"SEE! IT'S OKAY, SHE'S NOT A SLUT!!!\" Actually it still doesn't seem right. Does it count when your consul and warrior are also basically your lovers? And should it really be justified if it hurts the guys involved? It's true they accepted her inability to commit because they wanted her happy, but they were obviously unhappy with it considering they were committed to her alone. I get not everyone is into monogamy, but this is just selfish no matter what. Her screwing around also got in the way of the plot too much. The world is falling into chaos but Zoey likes to spend most of her thinking time mooning over how troublesome it is to juggle boyfriends. Oh man, I could go on but really shouldn't. The supporting characters helped but as the series progressed they became less important. Or rather, maybe they just seem less important because I'm so tired of them. They really became more like like Zoey's litter of loyal puppies and comedy props than actual people. The Twins were kind of funny at first but then just got repetitive. Damien is alright and actually seems to have a brain cell but that's about it. Jack was sweet but he was little more than technologically-skilled arm candy. Aphrodite is a rival turned ally and actually had some depth. I started liking Aphrodite and her blunt ways, especially because she was the only one who really bothered to knock sense into Zoey. HOWEVER, her sour attitude also became repetitive and now she just seems obnoxious. Every time she talks I imagine her screeching in my ear. Heath... oh Heath. No one is this stupid. No one. He was a fracking damsel in distress with a dick. He has his place in the plot later in the books, but he really just came off as this unnecessary love interest that obsessively followed Zoey. When not doing that, all he did was moronically stumble into danger and Zoey would nearly kill herself protecting him. Heath's head was so far up his ass he could tongue his intestines. When I picture him, he's a studly blond with an crap-eating smile and eyes that stare as if the lights are on but no one's home. He'd just pop out of nowhere to smother Zoey with his \"It's you and me babe!\" drivel. It was disgusting and it was greedy. He loved her so much but all he really did was complicate her life by constantly pursuing her and making it difficult for her to move on. It was all about him every time he tried to shove himself into her existence, even after the first five or so times she said they were over. It's why I actually managed to be proud of him when he finally let her go in Burned . It was a little over due but it's nice that he finally decided to do something for her own good. I like Stevie Rae. Sue me. I didn't care for her much at first but the rebirth gave her an interesting perspective on life. Though honestly, I don't think I would've liked her nearly as much if it wasn't for Zoey. Being inside Stevie Rae's head was like popping a pain killer after such a long time in Zoey's head. I felt brain cells dying whenever I read that girl's raw thoughts and spoken words. I'm not even kidding. There were times while reading Zoey's POV where my brain felt as if it were suffocating! You know the aching yet empty feeling of a tooth cavity? That's what my head felt like whenever she said something particularly stupid. Scared the crap out of me! Many hated the switch from first person to third person narrative but I loved it. I prefer third person because I believe it opens the story more when you're able to see it through the eyes of others. It's especially exhilarating when you have a protagonist like Zoey to take a break from. I loved Stevie Rae's relationship with Rephaim. Loved it. I remember I was actually getting sick of House of Night by Tempted and it was the introduction of their relationship that kept my interest. I wanted to find what would become of them and I wanted to find out more about Rephaim. He eventually became my favorite character because I loved his design, as well as his lack of atrocious excuses for \"teen talk\" the Cast infected the others with. Ugh. Their relationship was also refreshing because it was different. Being inside Zoey's head was all: HOT GUY HOT GUY SMOKING HOT GUY LUST UBER SEXY EPIC LURV HOTTIE HOT GUY EPIC LURV WITH NEW SMEXY GUY SEX DROOL HOT GUY NEW LURV WITH DIFFERENT GUY HOT GUY HOT GUY. Seriously, there might have been some feelings in there but it was majorly just all flawless men and heated physical passion. With Rephaim and Stevie Rae it was emotional. Obviously it didn't start with looks but instead bonding from mutual trust and respect. It's very Beauty and the Beast but hey, I like it. Especially after the sausage-fest of fecking perfect men. So yeah, I read on and I adored Burned . It's my favorite in the series because Zoey was absent for most of it and I got to see the development of Stevie Rae's new romance. It's the only book I gave five stars and I read it like fanfiction... Sad. Now, I'm going to take a little aside to do some defending. I've done enough tearing down, so I'm going to take a break to build up. Stevie Rae didn't become a new Zoey. She may have been nursing Rephaim while dating Dallas but her intentions were completely unromantic. She didn't accept her growing feelings for Rephaim until after it was over between her and Dallas. It was hard for her to realize she even had feelings. And there was that other guy people keep bringing up... whose name I cannot recall. I don't even count him because all they had was a quick interest in each other back when she was Blue. I don't think they were even official, but either way it was over with after she died. They don't see each other again until several books later and then it's just this very brief moment of \"Oh hey, it's nice to see you! I'm so glad we're not dead!\" So Stevie Rae has had more than one love interest but she can actually move from one to the other, unlike Zoey, who just juggles them all at once. I also felt Zoey's relations mostly consisted of: \"You're hot. I'm hot. I feel so drawn to you somehow...\" It came slower with Rephaim and Stevie Rae but that's what made it seem like something was actually there. They made each other better people. Rephaim also gets a bad reputation because his daddy is the thousand year old serial murder/rapist Zoey had a thing for, and he's done some killing himself. Maybe raping, I don't know. What makes it different for me is that Kalona chose to become the way he was; Rephaim was raised into it. Once he started realizing what light was compared to darkness and what it really meant to love and be loved, once he realized he could possibly change he actually wanted to. And he did. That was part of what made his story with Stevie Rae so great to me. Kalona was a story of falling from grace; Rephaim was a story of redemption. If there's anything I don't regret about reading this series, it would be the relationship between this Raven Mocker and Red Vampyre. Bird Boy and Okie. They were a very lovely and interesting development. But even their relationship alone can't hold me anymore. I loved the outcome even though I found him to be a bit whipped in this book. I was very touched by Kalona's decision but really none of this can make up for the declining plot and crappy characters. Diving deeper into that: What is with this language??? The Cast team try so hard to sound like teenagers and they fail so hard it embarrasses me to even be a teenager. Supposedly P.C Cast was a high school English teacher and that's where she got her material from. I have never, in my life, heard anyone speak with such idiocy. There's a lot of valley girl slang and fabricated words and I haven't heard either since late elementary to early middle school. Though I will admit, I have a friend who's a few years older than I and he does recognize some of the lingo... from the 90's. The phrases and words used in this book have no business in 2007 and beyond. I also heard that P.C writes and Kristin goes in and \"teen-ifys\" it. Well Kristin... STOP IT! Just... Just stop it! Who says \"hee-hee's\"? WHO??? And another thing about Zoey... what's with a 17 year old girl using the word \"poopie\"??? I hate that word. I cannot stand that word. From toddler to tween, my younger sister used that word as a substitute for almost every adjective available. My mom, my dad, and myself all tried to train her out of it because we're just so sick of hearing it. There's just no one who would actually make that word a part of their daily vocabulary. I get that this is supposed to be some kind of endearing character quirk of hers... it's not. There were a lot of problems with the writing. I'm not going to bother getting into them all. I will say there were a lot of inconsistencies. The only one that immediately comes to mind happens to be in this book. It's when Stevie Rae drove Zoey's car.... the car that was stolen at the end of the last book. There was no explanation of how it got back. No hint it had ever been gone. It was just... there. Also had problems with all the pop culture references! These can be fun IN MINIMUM but this series is so stuffed full of Glee and Trueblood you'd think they were being paid to advertise. Heck, there's a scene in Destined dedicated to a not-so-subtle advertisement of the Sookie Stackhouse series. One that could only logically be completed with a cheesy grin and thumbs up at the camera. And just... ugh... There's nothing for me anymore. I couldn't even get 40 pages into Destined before I closed the book, put my head in my hands, and wondered why I was wasting my life. I could barely even gather the energy to read that far and it's safe to say I will never pick it up again. I've even lost the fire to continue with this review/rant. I don't blame anyone for liking this series because I was oddly addicted to it for some time as well. But seriously: I'm tired of the plot, I hate the main character, I'm sick of her twisted love life, and I'm saddened by her fellow twits friends. There is nothing for me. I quit. ...more i can't wait till this book comes out! im so excited. i would love to see more stevie rae & rephaim. i just love that nothing can break them apart. not him being apart of darkness. and the fact that she follows light. i just think its so adorable! CANT WAIT!!!! best books i've ever read. and i dont just say that for any book. but wow.. what a wonderful series. i hope theres more books after this 8th one. i dont want it to end! it definaitly beats the twilight series. and thats a serious statement. Oh, man. Oh man oh man oh man. Oh \u2026\u00a0I just. Guh. Where do I begin? I think reading these books is very unhealthy for me. Like, I can feel my brain cells dying off one by one. The writing is so bad and the plot is so bogus, it's like a drunk 13-year-old wrote this crap. I know that's a bit harsh\u2013\u2013but seriously! I don't understand how you could throw this thing together and call it literature! Of course, why the heck do I keep reading them? That's a good question. I think it's because this is one o Oh, man. Oh man oh man oh man. Oh \u2026\u00a0I just. Guh. Where do I begin? I think reading these books is very unhealthy for me. Like, I can feel my brain cells dying off one by one. The writing is so bad and the plot is so bogus, it's like a drunk 13-year-old wrote this crap. I know that's a bit harsh\u2013\u2013but seriously! I don't understand how you could throw this thing together and call it literature! Of course, why the heck do I keep reading them? That's a good question. I think it's because this is one of those \"train wreck\" series for me. (I've probably said this in my reviews for all the previous books.) As disastrous as they are, I just can't look away. And I did like them okay in the beginning ... but these past few books have just been agonizing. And they plan to write at least 15 of them?! I stand by my opinion that you should usually stop after 3 books ... unless you happen to have a very careful plan for your series and you are a really talented author. And, well, P.C. and Kristin Cast don't seem to have either of these traits. Well, let's get this over with. In Awakened, we find Zoey and Stark off on a magical island constantly having sex, while Neferet is taking over the House of Night (again)\u2013\u2013although she's having problems with Kalona, the demonly bird-like dude who is under her control. Then there's the subplot about Stevie Rae, who is having a secret relationship with a Raven Mocker\u2013\u2013one of Kalona's sons\u2013\u2013named Raphaim. (How the hell do you pronounce that, by the way? It bugs me.) As usual, the characters are being annoying as heck. Zoey is probably one of the most horrible main characters of all time, particularly because I don't give a damn what happens to her. In this book, as usual, she doesn't seem to care at all what's happening to her friends or what her responsibilities are. Nooo, she's chilling out on an island, having sex with her hot warrior boyfriend all day every day. (And may I mention that one of her gazillion boyfriends has recently died, and she doesn't seem to think about him at all?!)*Headsmack* What am I supposed to find compelling about her? She's shallow, she's an idiot, she's uncaring and unfeeling. Do I care whether she lives or dies, or whether she saves the House of Night? No \u2026\u00a0Not really. As for the other characters, they remain boring cardboard cut-outs in the background\u2013\u2013all of them prepared to throw themselves in harm's way just to save Zoey, because, for some reason, they all love her so much. I guess the relationship between Raphaim and Stevie Rae is compelling enough ... but other than that, I don't care much about the rest of the characters. Now \u2026 the writing. Hmm. It's just, well, bad. The authors switch perspectives way too much, the writing is clunky and tangential, and they constantly use text-speech such as \"BFF\" (Like, really? Really?!). They also use so many pop culture references, this book is going to make absolutely no sense to kids in ten years. This installment included random and unneeded references to \"True Blood\", \"Glee\", and \"Avatar\"\u2013\u2013and probably more, but I can't remember all of them. The authors try way too hard to be \"cool\" and know what \"the kids are into these days\", and it's just \u2026 horribly painful. So! The plot. Oh, dear. Well, I already went on a rant on how much I hate Zoey, and how she pretty much spends the whole book having sex and not doing much at all. Some main character. Meanwhile, everyone is running around like chickens with their heads cut off, while Neferet \u2026 is evil. I don't even know. That woman just needs to die already; at this point, I'm not even afraid of her ... I just want her to disappear. Now. All the wonderful WTF moments. SPOILERS AHEAD. So, if you haven't read it and you plan to read it (If so, I pray for your soul), then don't click on the spoilery thing. (view spoiler) [ - Jack dies. What\u2013\u2013the\u2013\u2013hell. I am so mad. Yeah, just go off and kill the most innocent character in the whole book, because that's such a lovely and original thing to do. Ok, well, I wouldn't be complaining if he'd actually had a decent death scene. But no. This was, like, the most terrible death scene of all time. We find Jack hanging origami on a tree, singing along to the Glee cover of \"Defying Gravity\". Neferet comes sneaking along and is like \"BWAHAHA. Hello, Jack! Come join my evil side!\" And he's just like \"I think I'll tryyyy defyinnggg gravityyyyy, and you won't bring me downnnn!\" (because\u2013\u2013OH WOW THIS SONG IS SO FITTING FOR THIS SCENE. HOW \u2026 SYMBOLIC.) And Neferet, as impatient and obnoxious as always, uses her magic to make Jack fall out of the tree and onto a sword, where he goes kersplat and randomly dies. What?! - If that weren't bad enough, Zoey doesn't even find out about Jack's death for a pretty long time. Nope, she's still off being her usual slutty self. And when Stevie Rae finally calls her and tells her, she only cries for about two minutes. Then, on the next page, Stevie Rae makes a joke about Neferet's vagina and they both start laughing and forget all about \u2026\u00a0you know \u2026\u00a0THEIR FRIEND WHO JUST DIED. *HEADWALL* - Kalona discovers that he can randomly zap himself into Stark's body and enjoy having sex with Zoey. Uh \u2026\u00a0okay. I just ... don't even know. - Neferet randomly strips in front of Zoey and asks for her forgiveness (but, of course, doesn't really mean it). Ookey Dokey. I guess because nudity is symbolic of vulnerability? - Nyx magically fixes Raphaim, so now he is human during the night and a raven during the day. So yay, now Raphaim and Stevie Rae can have sex ... but hopefully they won't try it too close to sunrise, or OH MAN THAT WOULD BE AWKWARD. - Neferet turns away from Kalona and randomly starts worshipping the giant white bull. They seem to be having some kind of creepy interspecies relationship. *shudders* - The giant bull needs a sacrifice so that Neferet can make him some kind of vessel for his evilness. So, Neferet goes and kills Zoey's mother. I guess I would care if, you know, Zoey's mother had appeared in the past six books or so. I'd nearly forgotten she or her husband existed at all. Then, of course, when Zoey found out about her own mother's death, she has next to no emotional reaction. Just, \"Oh, no! My mom's dead! Waaaah! Well \u2026 I'll see her again, right? Okay. Awesome.\" Sigh. - Heath, who refuses to ever go away ever, even after he died and even though he moved on to the next realm of the Otherworld \u2026\u00a0ARRRRGGGHHHHH I HATE HIM ... receives an offer from Nyx to go into Neferet's evil vessel to prevent Zoey's death; however, Heath will entirely forget who he is, so I'm not exactly sure how that works. In any case, it doesn't make much sense. (hide spoiler) ] So, yeah. Thus ends another ranting review for another one of these brain-killing books. I hope that I'll be able to give up on these, before I kill off all my brain cells entirely. ...more I liked it, wasn't a favorite but the whole Neferet/Kalona thing is getting old old old! Find a new storyline/tragedy already. We're into what, the 8th book? and we're still dealing with the same crap with Neferet? Gimme a new baddie besides the White Bull, he's still just an off shoot of Neferet. For a bunch of century old Vamps on the council, they're pretty stupid---I'm not seeing the wisdom here. It's time to let the Neferet/Kalona drag itself out and bring in a new storyline with the same cas I liked it, wasn't a favorite but the whole Neferet/Kalona thing is getting old old old! Find a new storyline/tragedy already. We're into what, the 8th book? and we're still dealing with the same crap with Neferet? Gimme a new baddie besides the White Bull, he's still just an off shoot of Neferet. For a bunch of century old Vamps on the council, they're pretty stupid---I'm not seeing the wisdom here. It's time to let the Neferet/Kalona drag itself out and bring in a new storyline with the same cast, sans Neferet and Kalona! There's got to be more mischief for the fledglings then those two. ...more I honestly don't know why I'm still reading this series. Maybe as ridiculous as the story gets, I want to know how it will end. I'm thinking I've slugged through seven books already so 2, 3 more shouldn't be too hard... but by the looks of it, the authors will probably churn out 8 more books before this series ends. They're bringing Heath back for cryin' out loud. C'mon, didn't we read an entire book mostly about Heath dying and finally being happy in the Otherworld? And it seems that they're br I honestly don't know why I'm still reading this series. Maybe as ridiculous as the story gets, I want to know how it will end. I'm thinking I've slugged through seven books already so 2, 3 more shouldn't be too hard... but by the looks of it, the authors will probably churn out 8 more books before this series ends. They're bringing Heath back for cryin' out loud. C'mon, didn't we read an entire book mostly about Heath dying and finally being happy in the Otherworld? And it seems that they're bringing him back in Neferet's \"vessel\" and he'll be the tiny flicker of good in an otherwise evil creation. Uh, isn't that the same as Rephaim's story? And why bother with bringing Heath back when the awesomeness that is James Stark is already with Zoey? And that bit about Kalona having access to Stark? I didn't like it AT ALL. If the authors decide to make Stark bad again just to make Heath look good, I'm done with this series. Stark's pretty much the only character I like at this point. Rephaim, Stevie Rae and Aphrodite are okay I guess. The rest are so annoying, Zoey first and foremost. And aside from Zoey's gang and Lenobia, is everyone in the House of Night so frakking dumb that they go with Neferet's pronouncements right after they've seen and heard what Nyx had to say? That to me is a cop-out. It seemed like the authors were willing to make everyone else stupid just so they could get on with the story. Another thing I hate is all those pop-culture references that doesn't add anything to the story. It only makes the characters sound childish and cheap - trying too hard to be hip and \"now\" - removing any chance of the story being timeless. I guess it doesn't matter since the books are raking in profits now. And that may also be the reason why this series isn't ending any time soon, recycled characters and story lines be damned. ...more Oh God! shoot me! I was really being patient with this series. After all the make outs,hook ups, betrayal,death,resurrection,hoe-ing. I really thought this was the last book. Can you say overkill? Why kill a person, oh wait make that 4 or more people, if all of them will just live again. All of them? really? The biggest overkill for me is Kalona bird man immortal warrior and his bitch deity Neferet. Is he really a bad guy? If he's so powerful and smart then how come Neferet have him on a leash. Oh God! shoot me! I was really being patient with this series. After all the make outs,hook ups, betrayal,death,resurrection,hoe-ing. I really thought this was the last book. Can you say overkill? Why kill a person, oh wait make that 4 or more people, if all of them will just live again. All of them? really? The biggest overkill for me is Kalona bird man immortal warrior and his bitch deity Neferet. Is he really a bad guy? If he's so powerful and smart then how come Neferet have him on a leash. You wanna know this book's life saver? Aphrodite and Darius they are such a great team. I hope the two of them doesn't \"die\". Stevie Rae and Rephaim's love story is also adorable. And again I hope they dont \"die\". Oh I almost forgot... I really wanna scream this at Zoey while she was on VACATION. \"WHADDA FUCK ZOE! THE WORLD IS ENDING, A FRIEND HAS DIED, AGAIN, WHILE YOU PLAY AROUND WITH LITTLE FAIRIES. NEFERET IS PLOTTING SOMETHIN WHILE YOU AND STARK ARE PUMPING AWAY UNDER A TREE! (DEEP BREATH)\" I know zoey is supposed to be a teen but still, if you were in her shoes would you be able to take a vaca like that? Ehem! *blush* sorry I got a little carried away there. I just really wanna let it out ...more To see full review click here A long time ago, I decided to read all of the House of Night books because I thought it would be an interesting experiment. I knew I might get annoyed, but I could get drunk and have some shits and giggles. However, now that I'm on the eighth installment it doesn't read so much like shits and giggles anymore. Instead, its really a cry for help for humanity. I seriously think PC and Kristin Cast are a prima facie case of why the world can't have nice things. And this i To see full review click here A long time ago, I decided to read all of the House of Night books because I thought it would be an interesting experiment. I knew I might get annoyed, but I could get drunk and have some shits and giggles. However, now that I'm on the eighth installment it doesn't read so much like shits and giggles anymore. Instead, its really a cry for help for humanity. I seriously think PC and Kristin Cast are a prima facie case of why the world can't have nice things. And this installment of the so called drinking game (though for the safety of you're liver we can't actually make it a drinking game anymore) is going to focus on why they're proud members of the bottom 1% of dumb asses in the world. 1) Normal people would not kill off a character to a song and dance montage-let alone a song and dance montage sung by the cast of Glee. However, that's how the Casts decide to kill off a character that essentially has had less airtime than Zoey Redbird's cat. A part of me is naive enough to state that the Casts are just uber fans of the show Glee, but then I read shit like this where the Casts bitch about how their shitty series wasn't given a plug on the show and I'm like not uber fans..more like uber sell outs. 2) The Casts don't believe that people need to be emotionally ready for sex. I kid you not. The characters act like their in second grade with the way they talk about bodies. Yet the amount of boinking that went on in the first forty pages of the book makes it look like Fifty Shades of Night (a very scary thought, please fan girls do NOT make a crossover based on these two series). Look, I'm all for YA books where the characters are sexually active relationships. Its realistic, but don't have them talking about bodies like their gross if they're engaging in coitus. Or if they do, have them mess up because if they can't talk about intercourse without going ew cooties over it then they don't need to be having sex. Seriously, everyone in this book talks like they're on one of those TGIF sitcoms when it comes to sex and life in general. And we all know what happened to those child stars after their respected series ended. 3) Being culturally offensive. Its appalling how many cultures that the Casts have defended. Even I know that the Scots don't talk that way the Casts say they do and the only exposure I've had of Scotland is Harry Potter and the Traveling Chanel. That is sad people. Though I can tell you, from personal experiences, that no self respecting Okie talks like Stevie Rae. Most of my mom's side is from Oklahoma and none of them speak with an accent remotely like Stevie Rae's, they don't care for stirrup pants, and none of them (that I know of) engage in bestiality. Though I'm sure one or two of them does like Kenny Chesney, but hey....no one's perfect. 4) Fact checking. Biggest logic fuck up this installment it only takes three hours to fly from Scotland to Oklahoma. I guess they could be flying the Concorde but it doesn't exist anymore so there goes that theory. 5) Condescending tone. Is it just me or do these books in general talk down to their audience? I swear, if Damien gives me one more vocabulary lesson. I will hurt him. I just will. And yes, I know he is a fictional character but still...Also, speaking of condescending look at this little article that one of my GR friends let me know about. Seems like the Casts don't like people calling them out on their bullshit. We'll be talking more about this when I read that particular installment. 6) People still trusting Neferet. Does she have to nuke them to get them to realize she's the big bad? And what's with her walking around naked everywhere? For some ritual apparently, but we're not told why she needs to be naked. Dr. Evil was better bad guy than this. And really, why do try to over-sexualize her? Is it to show us that sex is evil? Because honestly this character's sexuality is so comical that I almost read it as a parody on slut slamming. But after reading eight of your books, Casts, I know you're not clever enough to do something like that. More or less you probably think sex is evil and lead very sad lives. Oh, and you probably still believe that Anthony Weiner is a changed man. 7) Bestiality. I don't even have to go into much detail on this. I don't care that you transformed Stevie Rae's animal friend into a human. It's still gross. Period. And if you call me a bigot, I swear I'll send PETA out on your ass because animals no matter if they can talk to you or not are not our special friends. 8) Please stop trying to tell us that a character is bad, that a couple shares chemistry, and that I need to kiss Zoey's ass. You'd think that this is the first book that Dumb and Dumber has ever published with the amount of telling that goes on. But nope, this is the eighth installment in this series. And Cast Snr has published several more books before and I highly suspect Cast JR had a couple of fan fics out there (that's purely speculation though). The point is they shouldn't be relying on the telling crutch. And we all know that Prince Eric was smart getting away from Zoey and her forty husbands. If Damien calls him a Douche its his loss. We all know what really happened, the Casts finally watched The Marvel Universe movies and replaced their Christopher Reeve crush with Robert Downey JR. Which I guess is respectable, but I am wondering if its going to flip flop now that Man of Steel is out and Henry Cavill is well...let's just say is SMeyer would've got her wish and he would've been playing Ed-tart, I could understand why girls would go gaga over him. 9) The fact that the Casts decided to give us Grandma Redbird's shit a chapter. Okay, technically its her shitty daughter. But we're told how big a POS she is throughout the entire novel that I just decided to go for it. Grant it, I know I'm being crass but after eight fucking installments of these books I think I have the right to be as rude as I want. And honestly, why would Zoey's mother who had minimum screen time and was basically forgotten with the past four or five books be mentioned. Only to merely kill off a character that wasn't Grandma Redbird that's why. And man, do I hate Grandma Redbird. But I'm digressing. The point is, insignificant characters got a POV. And why do I care about these insignificant characters? What point do they serve? 10) As bad as soap operas are, they never bring back unpopular characters because they know it will make the fans upset and they won't give a shit that some dumb ass who they have no attachment to has come back from the dead. This is why popular characters are resurrected from the dead multiple times. The Casts however took this advice backwards and resurrected an unpopular character that everyone with half a brain and a grain of self respect hates. Yes. Heath is back from the dead. I know I want to hurt something too. ...more Read in Jan 2011 I\u2019d been eagerly awaiting this book's release and while I enjoyed it, I found I didn\u2019t love it like I was excepting to. I liked it, but I didn\u2019t love it. To me the previous two books in the series have been the best of the series, but this one lacked whatever it was that made those ones great in my opinion. The storyline was as usual complicated and everything was happening at once. There was a lot happening.....perhaps too much. I love complex storylines, but I\u2019m beginning to fe Read in Jan 2011 I\u2019d been eagerly awaiting this book's release and while I enjoyed it, I found I didn\u2019t love it like I was excepting to. I liked it, but I didn\u2019t love it. To me the previous two books in the series have been the best of the series, but this one lacked whatever it was that made those ones great in my opinion. The storyline was as usual complicated and everything was happening at once. There was a lot happening.....perhaps too much. I love complex storylines, but I\u2019m beginning to feel like there\u2019s too much going on with this series at times. Just when it seems like everything\u2019s good and as it should be, something changes and alters and sometimes it\u2019s just strange. This book was also very up and down emotional wise. Something horrible would happen, and then something happy and then horrible again. It changed constantly. To start off I have to say.....I really don\u2019t like Zoey. While she started out as a cool heroine in the first couple of books, she\u2019s deteriorated in my opinion. She annoys me to no end and I hate the choices she makes. I feel like she carries on sometimes over things and she just gets on my nerves. It\u2019s really hard to read a series when you don\u2019t like the main character. I think one of the only reason\u2019s I\u2019m still reading this series is that with the change in POV\u2019s that has now begun, I\u2019m able to see and hear more of the characters I do actually like. They\u2019re what make the series worth reading, although this book unfortunately revolved around Zoey mainly once again and they faded into the back ground. I also didn\u2019t like the parts where Neferet was front and centre. Even though I understand that it\u2019s important to understand what she\u2019s doing, I honestly couldn\u2019t care less about her and therefore I found myself bored during those moments. I was really shattered by Jacks death. He was such a sweetie and one of the truly good characters in this series; it was sad to see him go. His death and the moments after it with the funeral and everything were really emotional and it was impossible not to feel sad. My heart broke for Damien. He loved Jack so much and it\u2019s heart-breaking that he lost him. I LOVED what transpired between Stevie-Rae and Rephaim. They\u2019re one of the things I love most about this series. Perhaps it\u2019s that tinge of forbidden that I love so much, but they go together so well despite their differences and I was soooo happy to see them get to be together. I loved the moment when Stevie-Rae let everyone know about her and Rephaim. I thought it was so great that she defended him and didn\u2019t want to hide what they had any longer, despite knowing how everyone would respond. It was very sweet. I know Rephaim has done some horrible things in the past, things that he regrets and will never be able to change, but it\u2019s so great knowing he wants to be different. That meeting and caring about Stevie-Rae the way he does makes him want to be different. I was ecstatic when he chose Stevie-Rae over his father and then Nyx allowed him to be human from dusk until dawn. It\u2019s so great that he can be a human boy and they can be together like they should be. I loved it! Now for some things that really irk me..... I must say it was weird to see Kalona get into Stark\u2019s mind. I love Stark, I\u2019m team Stark all the way and I really hope that Kalona will leave him alone. Although I\u2019m not holding my breath. I also hope that Kalona isn\u2019t going to use Rephaim in some way like Stark suggested. He and Stevie-Rae have been through enough.....just leave them alone!! I\u2019m upset at the thought that they may get messed around with again. As for Heath.....god! Doesn\u2019t anything ever stay left alone in this series? He was dead, and now he\u2019s coming back in some way.....it\u2019s just annoying! Now that his soul is in Neferet\u2019s Vessel it looks like there\u2019s....yet again....ANOTHER guy for Zoey. Hasn\u2019t she had enough? I mean really. How many guys does one girl have to get mixed up with? It\u2019s just too much. Anyway....ramblings aside, I liked this book, but hopefully the next one is a tad better. ...more Opini\u00e3o no blogue: https://thegirlwhoreadssbooks.wordpre... Oh. Dread. I'll start out with the positives - Okay, I can only think of one. Such a great concept for a series of books. Bottom line - Zoey is a regular teenager girl who is going to high school when she is \"Marked.\" This means that she will eventually turn into a vampyre. She's shunned by all and eventually reports to \"The House of Night,\" a school for others who are beginning the change but not before she drives to see her grandmother, a Native American (Zoey is part) and experiences a spirit Oh. Dread. I'll start out with the positives - Okay, I can only think of one. Such a great concept for a series of books. Bottom line - Zoey is a regular teenager girl who is going to high school when she is \"Marked.\" This means that she will eventually turn into a vampyre. She's shunned by all and eventually reports to \"The House of Night,\" a school for others who are beginning the change but not before she drives to see her grandmother, a Native American (Zoey is part) and experiences a spiritual experience with the goddess, Nyx, goddess of the moon. Zoey is destined to be a great leader. Zoey arrives at the school which is very big into practicing Wicca. The high priestess, Neferet is stunningly beautiful but seems to be evil. Yada, yada, she really is evil, Zoey steps up, Zoey and her friends develop powers and affinities for the elements, have weird experiences, etc. See? Fantastic content for young adult audience. Then it goes downhill. This book starts with Neferet having sex with some random warrior. He's not the one she wants so she kicks him out. But at least he's beautiful. She goes to the dungeon where she is keeping Kalona, an immortal, who used to be the Guardian of the goddess Nyx and who just failed to kill Zoey. Now he's a slave (including sex) to Neferet. Next scene: Zoey is on the island of Skye, recuperating from Book 7 with her guardian, Stark. They have sex in a grove and Zoey decides to stay on Skye forever. By the way, Stark is beautiful. Interruption: Mothers, Are you feeling how appropriate this book is for young adults? But, wait. There's more. Neferet has a debt to pay \"darkness,\" the evil tendrils she commands to harm, maim or kill those she commands. She chooses to kill very sweet, very purple, very gay Jack, Damien's lover. And, oh, the stereotype is all over this one. Jack and Damien are completely about rainbows, puppy dogs, interior design, and painting their love for all the world to see. Did I mention these characters are sixteen? Neferet makes her appearance at the council and - Surprise! All the adults are just too darn stupid to realize Neferet is evil. Because, as a rule, grown-ups just don't get it and really are not people to trust. Meanwhile, our stereotypical southern, Stevie Rae is talkin' all southern for us and lamenting about her love, the Raven Mocker Rephaim. Rephaim is a great big bird, beak and all. But she loves him. It's important to point out how Rephaim was conceived. Kalona, his father, raped his mother and she died in childbirth. Special. Continuing with socially unacceptable sexual practices, Kalona, Rephaim's father, discovers that he has a connection to Stark, Zoey's sex toy. He can travel into Stark's mind. Interesting twist to the story except HE ONLY CHOOSES TO DO SO WHILE STARK IS HAVING SEX WITH ZOEY! EWWW! She's 17 years old! Now we're talking statutory rape/rape (Zoey did not give Kalona permission to enjoy sex with her via Stark's mind). Much to my better judgment, I did finish this book which gave me one more sexual anomaly. Neferet \"gives herself completely\" to the white bull. That's right, folks, beastiality. Let's go over that list one more time: 1. Casual sex (even though they really LOVE each other) 2. Homosexuality and stereotyping of gay boys. 3. Rape 4. Statutory rape 5. Beastiality. Almost insignificant is the book jacket that, if I had seen the inside of it, would have been a good indicator. Turn it inside out and you get a full poster of a teenage boy, well defined muscles, low slung jeans looking morose. With four more books in the series to be written, I implore the authors to PLEASE develop a social conscience and 1) write better characters 2) stop insulting the reader with such garbage and stereotypes and 3) take writing workshops. I know <---A>P.C. Cast</---A> has earned prestigious awards but the characters lack depth, the story is not well developed, description of surroundings and action scenes lackluster or are absent, and the dialogue loses the genuineness by including the Scottish accent, Southern accent, and African American accent. Give the reader some credit in allowing us to create the accents in our heads. We know how to do that or sometimes we choose to concentrate more on content rather than worry about how something is said. 4) Stop grossing out the reader. ...more Lackluster continuation of series In AWAKENED, Zoey and Stark are recovering on the Isle of Skye after their harrowing return from the Otherworld. Neferet has returned to lead the Tulsa House of Night after being exonerated by the High Council, and she continues to grow stronger with Kalona now under her control. The rogue Red Fledglings are terrorizing the city, and Stevie Rae and Rephaim continue to struggle to define their relationship. With new threats and tragedies occurring in Tulsa, Zoey m Lackluster continuation of series In AWAKENED, Zoey and Stark are recovering on the Isle of Skye after their harrowing return from the Otherworld. Neferet has returned to lead the Tulsa House of Night after being exonerated by the High Council, and she continues to grow stronger with Kalona now under her control. The rogue Red Fledglings are terrorizing the city, and Stevie Rae and Rephaim continue to struggle to define their relationship. With new threats and tragedies occurring in Tulsa, Zoey must decide where her conscience leads her and what she will do. Despite my concerns with this series, I always come back to the next book with hopes for improvement. Unfortunately, AWAKENED continues the series' downward trend. The use of slang, unrealistic \"teen talk,\" dated references, and racial and homosexual stereotypes continue (even though it's obvious the authors are trying to be inclusive). Like TEMPTED and BURNED, Zoey's perspective is written in first-person, while everyone else is in third-person. This stylistic back-and-forth remains frustrating, especially given the sheer number of characters included. Very limited character growth happens for anyone, especially Zoey. As a character, I'm no longer able to take her seriously. For example, Zoey refers to other characters as being \"gross\" for \"playing kissy-face,\" and then she's depicted as sexually and emotionally mature a few chapters later, which seemed unbelievable. While things moved forward plot-wise a bit more in this book, the pace still felt stagnant for the first half. The major conflict remains Neferet and Kalona, with little change, and predictable plot outcomes continue. At the end, the book also concludes at a moment in which the authors resurrect a painfully overused plot point. On the positive side, as mentioned, there is a bit more movement in the plot when compared to the previous two installments. The relationship between Stevie Rae and Rephaim remains interesting, and character development occurs in Rephaim, a bit in Kalona, and even a little bit in Erik. Damien and Jack's relationship also gets some more attention, and it's depicted as healthy, loving, and meaningful. While the switch from first-person point of view to third-person remained bumpy at times, the transitions were smoother and the writing was better in the third-person sections than in previous books. With four book more books to go in this series, I'm finding it difficult as a reader to motivate myself toward picking up each additional one. If I do, I hope the Casts move beyond the set conflict or kick it up a notch, along with some significant character growth for Zoey and her friends. ...more I'm done. This book annoyed me in ways I didn't think were possible. Was I really thinking that this book would be any better than the last one? God, I'm such a retard. There are so manymanymany different ways that this got under my skin, but I won't drag this review out. Instead, let me just sum up the entire experience for you with one example of the bizarro hell that is... Awakened . (view spoiler) [ Jack, the requisite bubbly sweet gay guy ( for the record I'd like to see more surly gay guys in l I'm done. This book annoyed me in ways I didn't think were possible. Was I really thinking that this book would be any better than the last one? God, I'm such a retard. There are so manymanymany different ways that this got under my skin, but I won't drag this review out. Instead, let me just sum up the entire experience for you with one example of the bizarro hell that is... Awakened . (view spoiler) [ Jack, the requisite bubbly sweet gay guy ( for the record I'd like to see more surly gay guys in literature. Not every freakin' gay dude prances around being kind and sweet! I'm just saying. ) gets the axe in this book. Sad, right? Noooo. Oh, there were tears running down my face, but they were the tears of laughter . Only, I don't think it was supposed to be funny. See, the evil chick needs to sacrifice an innocent incorruptible soul ( duh! the natural choice is the gay guy! ), so she ensnares Jack in her voodoo web of Darkness. He knows he is going to die, and begins to make his peace with death. *cue dramatic music* No. Seriously. Cue dramatic music! He then proceeds to sing a song. A song that he heard on the tv show, Glee. I've never seen Glee. So how do I know it's from Glee? 'Cause that's what it says in the book. Yes. Apparently, him singing the male part of a duet from this show should have brought me to my emotional knees. It didn't. Unless you count that I had to pick myself up off the floor, because my sides hurt from spasming so hard with laughter...that I fell over. GLEE?! Are you #@$*ing serious?! Bwahahahahhaha! Ah, *wipes tear* I take it all back. That scene alone was worth reading the entire book! (hide spoiler) ] ...more Zoey is taking a holiday to avoids all the drama and sad things that have afflicted everyone (but which makes her super sad because she\u2019s so special). The bad guys are not respecting her wish for a happy holiday so Zoey will eventually have to get back into the action Meanwhile the redemption of Rephraim continues, because what\u2019s a little murder when you\u2019ve decided a guy is going to be your freaky birdy love interest? Zoey spends a lot of this book hanging out on the Isle of Skye-author-isn\u2019t-quit Zoey is taking a holiday to avoids all the drama and sad things that have afflicted everyone (but which makes her super sad because she\u2019s so special). The bad guys are not respecting her wish for a happy holiday so Zoey will eventually have to get back into the action Meanwhile the redemption of Rephraim continues, because what\u2019s a little murder when you\u2019ve decided a guy is going to be your freaky birdy love interest? Zoey spends a lot of this book hanging out on the Isle of Skye-author-isn\u2019t-quite-sure-about-the-difference-between-Ireland-and-Scotland-but-likes-guys-in-kilts (Scotland doesn\u2019t use Euros) deciding she wants to take a time out because it\u2019s all so sad and hard and everyone else tries to think of ways to get her back into the action. Also I\u2019ve been to the Isle of Skye \u2013 it\u2019s not just a made up place but the author has just overlaid the whole island and made it vampire world. Y\u2019know I\u2019d be sympathetic \u2013 but the shit she\u2019s been through is not any deeper or smellier than what everyone else has been through (hey, remember Dragon mourning his wife of several centuries? Or Aphrodite changing species? Or Stevie-Rae and the Fledglings dying and coming back? Remember any of this?) and none of them had their soul shattered and then decided to take a prolonged island holiday. This follows book after book after book of everyone worshipping Zoey and centring her grief to the complete exclusion of everyone else\u2019s. Stark\u2019s death? All about Zoey. Stevie-Rae\u2019s death? All about Zoey. Heath\u2019s death? All about Zoey. Has anyone even told Heath\u2019s parents yet? Anyone? Having an all-about-Zoey holiday so she can be all schmoopy with Stark the Redeemed Rapist and have a whole new set of vampires declare how super duper awesome she is just causes migraines. And that\u2019s ignoring the multiple prophecies all saying that if she doesn\u2019t get her arse back into gear then the whole world is going to fall apart. No, screw prophecies, that is with her KNOWING Neferet is out there doing terribad awful things, but hey time out holiday time because precious Zoey! Let\u2019s hit another annoying element (and there are so many!): Rephaim\u2019s redemption storyline \u2013 in fact, no, cut that. This isn\u2019t a redemption storyline. Redemption storylines suggest some level of trying to make amends for the shit you\u2019ve pulled. Redemption storylines mean actually working to earn forgiveness and being a better person. Wave the woo-woo of Nyxness and suddenly declaring yourself team good guy is not a redemption storyline. Yet that\u2019s basically what Rephaim does. As we all saw coming (with the inevitability of a train racing towards us while we\u2019re tied to the tracks), Rephaim loves Stevie Rae (and she has a thing for bird guys) and that means all is good! Nyx even totally comes to seal the deal! And, no, angst is NOT Redemption. Whining away that you\u2019re a monster is self-absorbed self-pity, not redemption. If I were the Dragon I wouldn\u2019t forgive this bullshit either \u2013 \u201cyou\u2019re sorry and have to have downtime when your girlfriend\u2019s asleep anyway? Totally makes up for murdering my wife!\u201d (Oh and a side point on his - Rephaim continually beats himself up as a monster, as a \"child of rape\" - there is actually more shaming and attacking of Rephaim for being conceived through rape than there is of Kalona and Stark, actual rapists). This is another really nasty problem House of Night series has \u2013 not just speeding people down the Redemption lines at a great rate of knots, but we also have this cult of forgiveness. These people (no, not people \u2013 men and I\u2019ll come back to that as well) do terrible things and suddenly BING REDEMPTION and everyone is now expected to forgive them. Their misdeeds totally forgotten. The fact that Dragon doesn\u2019t want to forgive Rephaim, the man who killed his wife, just days after she died (seriously, the ashes can\u2019t even be scattered yet!) and doesn\u2019t want Rephaim around him is seen as Dragon\u2019s failing rather than completely natural. But we\u2019ve seen the same thing with Stark before as well \u2013 absolutely no-one brings up his Red-Fledgling Rapist days and his victim has been thoroughly demonised. Which makes me fear that we\u2019re also looming closer to the biggie \u2013 the redemption of Kalona! Because he\u2019s super duper sad (though can we shred hi \u201cmotivation\u201d \u2013 he turned evil because Nyx friend-zoned him. Nyx wasn\u2019t into you, she already had a guy Kalona, deal with it) and Neferet is being so very very mean to him and she\u2019s the real bad guy! And look, he even let Rephaim switch sides! I shudder, but the more Neferet is demonised and the more we seem to be cutting Kalona some slack the more I can see this happening. Because that is what this series wants \u2013 a female villain. Nothing about how Neferet is written suggests the slightest attempt at a redemption storyline for her. No way. She is evil evil evil through and through, embracing the darkness, kicking puppies and generally being universally awful. She\u2019s also sexual and gets naked a lot because SEXY WOMAN IS EVIL IT IS KNOWN! I\u2019m going to have another rant about Nyx here \u2013 because she appears again and strongly hints to everyone that Neferet is totally not good. Y\u2019know she could have done this several books ago or done it in front of the High Council or in front of any of the vampires who still think Neferet is a good guy \u2013 but nooooo. So she appears, tells everyone that Neferet isn\u2019t all good, but mainly focuses on ramming forgiveness down Dragon\u2019s throat. When she\u2019s gone Neferet just mind controls everyone into believing her again with DARKNESS POWERS and Nyx does\u2026. Nothing. Of course she does nothing. This series needs to make up its mind. Either Nyx decides free will means she can\u2019t get involved at all \u2013 in which case she needs to stop throwing out prophecies and random appearances and squelching stomach cramps of guidance. OR she is an involved deity actively guiding, supporting and helping her supplicants \u2013 in which case she needs to get up a little earlier in the morning and getting her lazy deity arse in gear. Read More ...more i cant wait it has to be amazing Im going to start this one tonight:) This will be a terrible review, but I need to get this off my chest.\u00a0I'll start with the good news. If you've read and enjoyed the previous House Of Night books, you will like this one. All bad aside, the\u00a0story\u00a0is still pretty good. I don't understand the\u00a0Zoey-Stark\u00a0dynamic, because it was\u00a0kind of\u00a0instant and I have a low tolerance for sappy. I think that Stevie Rae and\u00a0Rephaim\u00a0have a legitimate dilemma, and that story is one worth following through. There is a lot that happens in this book, and This will be a terrible review, but I need to get this off my chest.\u00a0I'll start with the good news. If you've read and enjoyed the previous House Of Night books, you will like this one. All bad aside, the\u00a0story\u00a0is still pretty good. I don't understand the\u00a0Zoey-Stark\u00a0dynamic, because it was\u00a0kind of\u00a0instant and I have a low tolerance for sappy. I think that Stevie Rae and\u00a0Rephaim\u00a0have a legitimate dilemma, and that story is one worth following through. There is a lot that happens in this book, and even though most of it was fairly easy to predict -- no thanks to the foreboding -- it did set the stage for exciting things to come. What I initially liked about this series was its Native American influence and how it incorporated that and other lore into the storyline. Now I feel that the authors are pulling from too many mythologies, trying to manipulate everything so that it serves the story. I think when done right, that can give a story more depth, but it can also be a distraction to have so much deviation and embellishment. What 'Awakened' suffers from and what I fear will become a trend in the series, is being too much of not enough; the important parts of this book could have been summed up in a few chapters, everything else feels superfluous . The same issues are present in this book as with every House Of Night book before it; the abuse of pop-culture references, the language and utter disregard for decent grammar, and the apparent lack of proofreading and/or editing. Off the top, I remember several references to 'Glee,' 'True Blood,' and the iPhone 4, and that's not all of it. The issue here -- beside the fact that its f_cking annoying -- is continuity. None of these shows or gadgets were around when the first book of the series was published, some are even newer than the last book. The story so far has covered a timeline of less than two years and most of the books pick up right where it's predecessor left off, so it makes no sense for Stevie Rae to have a regular iPhone at the end of the last book and an iPhone 4 at the beginning of this one, with only a few weeks having passed. Some things are so date-specific I have to wonder whether they left gaps in paragraphs like \"[insert current billboard chart topper here]\" and \"[insert name of really popular show here]\" to be filled in right before the book goes into production. If you're new to the series and read them all in close succession, which I did for the first six books, the flaws with this method of pop-culture bombardment will stand out, especially in the earlier books, because those \"flavor of the month\" references are now outdated. As far as the writing, the language and grammar is a mess and the narration is inconsistent. There were misspellings, which are forgivable, but only to an extent. The characters talk like either really old people or really little kids trying to mimic how teenagers speak and\u00a0frankly,\u00a0they sound stupid. It is possible that the things I'm reading as mistakes are actually intentional -- like on the last page when Stark asks Zoey \"what it is?\" -- but, that would be considerably worse.\u00a0Zoey says \"boolpoopie\" -- what the f_ck? --Aphrodite uses profanity, but her vocabulary seems to be limited to the phrase \"for sh_t's sake,\" and Stevie Ray apparently has multiple personality disorder, because she flips between saying actual cuss words and using placeholders like \"B\" instead of \"b_tch.\" If you read the dialogue parts aloud, you will be mortified. The story alternates perspective, which is fine, but only Zoey's narrative is first-person. It's really... uncomfortable to read. It doesn't really serve a purpose to me, other than highlighting that she is the central character. There are a few other things, as an ethnic reader, I have problems with. One of the two black characters, Kramisha, is completely a ghetto-black-person stereotype who doesn't speak good English and apparently wears multi-colored wigs. I realize the authors are from Oklahoma, and I'm sure the black population out there is like 5%, but it's terrible that they can only seem to portray black characters as ignorant clich\u00e9s. I'm not one of those black panther type of black people who think \"the man\" is always out to get us, but I recognize the lack of black fictional characters that can serve as role-models and I think books that target a young audience should not alienate some of the people who would potentially be reading it. The plus side is that there are openly gay characters who are accepted -- though those characters are also stereotypes. Sidenote: The Vampire Diaries novels have similar issues. Because the first four were published in the early-to-mid-90s and the most recent two (or three) were published in the last few years, there is a lack of consistency. In the original books they didn't have cellphones, but in the newer books, they're texting and using their computers to video chat even though it takes place immediately where the last of the original books left off. The newer books also suffer from too many mythological influences and the story is nonsensical. ...more I hate, hate, HATED this book. *****SPOILER***** Pro (there's only one): Raphiem becomes a full human. Awesome. Cons: Almost everything else about the book. It felt like space filler. Why release this thing? It doesn't advance the story at all, it barely gives us anything new, it's basically a collection of instances in which Zoey and Stark are naked and Stark gets taken over by Kelona (big surprise there, since Stark has a piece of Kelona's soul). Oh, and Jack Dies. While singing a Glee song. Gle I hate, hate, HATED this book. *****SPOILER***** Pro (there's only one): Raphiem becomes a full human. Awesome. Cons: Almost everything else about the book. It felt like space filler. Why release this thing? It doesn't advance the story at all, it barely gives us anything new, it's basically a collection of instances in which Zoey and Stark are naked and Stark gets taken over by Kelona (big surprise there, since Stark has a piece of Kelona's soul). Oh, and Jack Dies. While singing a Glee song. Glee, really? I know you are trying to keep things current, but some how this really made the story seem less realistic than more (not that its realistic at all, with Vampires in it). When I first started reading this series, I thought it was some what interesting, nothing super exciting. Loved the two Bulls of Good and Evil, loved the Native American reference and Kelona as the bad guy with slightly redeeming factors, loved Raphiem, love the goddess. Hated that Heath was annoyingly stereotypical and forced, Zoey's stupid use of words like \"bull-poopie\" and her love of any soda \"as long as it's brown\", Eric's basically a Vampiric version of Heath, and the \"twins\" aspect thing was super annoying, do they have to call each other Twin? Do they , REALLY? We get it. They look nothing alike, ones white, ones black, but they share a brain, GOT IT. And Jack Twist. Jack Twist? Really? Come ON. ...more I am so done with this series. It really should have ended two books ago, now it's just dragging on. Plus, I'm still pissed about the who Eric Night thing. It seems pretty bitchy that Zoe after sleeping with another guy decided that he's the immature one because he's jealous of her several boy toys. so not cool and such a horrible message to send to teens. goddess or not stringing along several guys is bad. I also did not buy Stevie Ray and her mother scene. There is no reason that she shouldn' I am so done with this series. It really should have ended two books ago, now it's just dragging on. Plus, I'm still pissed about the who Eric Night thing. It seems pretty bitchy that Zoe after sleeping with another guy decided that he's the immature one because he's jealous of her several boy toys. so not cool and such a horrible message to send to teens. goddess or not stringing along several guys is bad. I also did not buy Stevie Ray and her mother scene. There is no reason that she shouldn't have told her mom that she wasn't dead and her mother sounds more like a wise sage than a southern gal which is how she was described earlier. I in no way believe that the high council is stupid enough to not see what Neferette is doing. It dosen't make any sense at this point and makes them look nothing like the wise guardians that they are suppose to be. You can't have it both ways and just pretend that they don't see what's going on. And the dialog is still annoying as ever. I can not read any more of these. ...more heya people! guess what?! i finished! yay! i know, 3 stars, not so high, but i'm not a HON fanatic unlike i'm sure the majority of people are, so, the major thing here is i kinda liked this one, which is good for all of you fans out there cos it means you'll probably like it or love it! hurrah! of, you may hate it too, in that case, whoops. I have no idea why i continue to read this series but i just feel like i've read too many of them, thus, the series must be finished! First book: hmm, pretty g heya people! guess what?! i finished! yay! i know, 3 stars, not so high, but i'm not a HON fanatic unlike i'm sure the majority of people are, so, the major thing here is i kinda liked this one, which is good for all of you fans out there cos it means you'll probably like it or love it! hurrah! of, you may hate it too, in that case, whoops. I have no idea why i continue to read this series but i just feel like i've read too many of them, thus, the series must be finished! First book: hmm, pretty good, i'll see what happens. Second Book: okay, this is alright, i'll see what happens. Third book: tthh. Fourth book: okay, it's kinda getting better again. Fifth Book: okay. Sixth, Seventh: dud! Seventh Book: at least it's sorta stopped dragging on and we have a little bit of action happening here! Those have been my thoughts so far so Awakened was a good wake up call (haha, see what i did there) from the dragging plot where - hallelujah - something actually happens! okay, i'm being mean. I feel like the plot has been dragging on for aaaaaaages since after, i dunno, book 4 or 5, so i like how we've moved forward in the plot slightly. I still feel like this series is lacking but Awakened seems pretty high standard from what i remember of this series. Okaaaaay, what happens? hmm, well Neferet is still as evil and freaky as ever. She is a terrific actor i must admit... you know, besides all those small looks that she can't seem to hold back after she's manipulated the situation to her liking. There is a pretty huge change that happens with Kalona, not gonna say what cos it happens like, at the end of the book, and does anyone else think that he might become good one day? i dunno why i think so, but he's still like, my favourite character, evil as he is (mwahahaha). There are a few poems by whats-her-face, Kramisha or something that are about Stevie Rae and Rephaim. So those two are a major part of the book. Who am i missing? Zoey, right. I've never really liked Zoey. Thought she was pretty shallow, and annoying, and just... Zoey. Of course that goes for most of her circle of friends except for maybe Stark - actually that reminds me, there's this weird thing between Kalona and Stark - but Zoey has always been the main annoyance for me. This is in third person again luckily and Stevie Rae is probably the main narrator... actually, i don't think Zoey is actually put into perspective that much in this book, but her, Stevie Rae, and P.C Cast, make for an annoyingly engaging read. I wish the authors could just go about the story better because the plot on it's own is pretty good, it's how they write that makes everything annoying to me (seriously - no offense). Okay.. i'm done.. i still only really like Kalona, not so much Rephaim anymore, and Stark. Hope all you HON fans lurve it, and i kinda hope that all you peoples like moi who can't seem to stop reading these books but don't really get a kick outta them finally have an excuse to give up on it. Being the must-finish-series-because-i've-read-too-many-of-them-already person that i am, mixed with the fact that this one was a pretty good one compared to the other books in the series, i'm gonna have to continue reading to House of Night 9: Destined . Previous thoughts for some reason... even though i find this series becoming a drag and i can not wait for it to finish just so i don't have to read them anymore, i find myself compelled to continue the series. And it is annoying the heck outta me! probably the only things i really like in this now is Kalona and Rephaim. i just read the first chapter (now available on her website: http://www.houseofnightseries.com/pag... ), and it bored me to bits.... bah! but! i have to admit that i really love the cover of this one. The red tattoo, and the black wings... gorgeous ...more I was a big fan of this series starting out, as I thought it was innovative and interesting, with a great pairing of vampire myth and magic. I still like those pieces, but my enjoyment of the series is being tried a bit with these latest installments. I feel like characterization has taken a hike somewhere along the way, as most of the characters seem to have become rather stagnant. As far as the main characters, it seems like we've reached somewhat of a standstill. On the one hand, Zoey is now s I was a big fan of this series starting out, as I thought it was innovative and interesting, with a great pairing of vampire myth and magic. I still like those pieces, but my enjoyment of the series is being tried a bit with these latest installments. I feel like characterization has taken a hike somewhere along the way, as most of the characters seem to have become rather stagnant. As far as the main characters, it seems like we've reached somewhat of a standstill. On the one hand, Zoey is now starting to see who she belongs with, thankfully, as she's spent the majority of the series flip-flopping back and forth between her many guys. So I am glad to see this part somewhat resolving itself. Stark has always been an interesting character to me and I still love him. He's strong, he cares about Zoey, and I like where his story is going as far as his role as her guardian. My favorite character in the story, however, is Kolona, as he has the most to learn, to change, to grow, etc. I see great potential and possibility in where his story might be headed. What did I like about this installment: I like where Kalona and Stark are going. I think this is a unique twist that might be developing here, and I have hope that Kalona is actually going to end up reconciling with Nyx. Although this is purely speculation for me. What I did not like was that we don't seem to be advancing too much in the overall story. I didn't really buy the idea that everyone's believing Neferet might be innocent. She threw out some rather silly and childish explanations for her actions and then everyone believed her except for Zoey's small group of friends? I just don't buy that they're the only ones who would be able to think and reason their way through this. The explanations are simple enough that a child could see through them. I'm rapidly reaching the point where I want to see the resolution for this story. I feel like things are being stretched just for the sake of seeing the story keep going. I am not quite ready to quit the series, but I do hope we can see a nice, strong wrap-up fairly soon. I think the authors are dragging things out too much at this point. The authors are very talented and great story tellers. This installment of the series, however, fell a little flat for me. I'm looking forward to seeing things pick up from here. ...more", "Title": "Awakened"},
