{"Comments": "<+++>Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War</+++>I have to admit, I am one of those na\u00efve Americans that has walked around in a bit of a fantasy land when it comes to the history of Plymouth and the Pilgrims. From grade school, I knew they desired freedom to worship their religion without persecution. In order to do so, they faced a difficult journey aboard the Mayflower prior to landing on the shores of New England. There\u2019s a giant rock on which they must have set foot after disembarking from the ship. I know the Pilgrims struggled to survive I have to admit, I am one of those na\u00efve Americans that has walked around in a bit of a fantasy land when it comes to the history of Plymouth and the Pilgrims. From grade school, I knew they desired freedom to worship their religion without persecution. In order to do so, they faced a difficult journey aboard the Mayflower prior to landing on the shores of New England. There\u2019s a giant rock on which they must have set foot after disembarking from the ship. I know the Pilgrims struggled to survive and the Native Americans came to their rescue. They celebrated the First Thanksgiving with the Native Americans, a holiday which we now sit down to every November in order to indulge and give thanks. Well,<---M> that\u2019s it in a nutshell</---M>, right? Or so I believed! <---A>Nathaniel Philbrick</---A>, however, has set me straight and enlightened me way more than I could ever have imagined! Mayflower is extremely well researched and undeniably well-written. However, it is quite dense with very detailed information regarding much more than the voyage of the Mayflower and the original settlement of Plymouth colony. Philbrick takes us beyond those years through the next couple of generations and presents a factual account of the violent and bloody wars fought between the New Englanders and the Native Americans. The first Thanksgiving most certainly did not end in a \u2018happily ever after\u2019 situation. There were numerous conflicts, various alliances between the New Englanders and Native Americans, and treachery. I was often quite shocked to learn of the behavior exhibited by some of the Pilgrims\u2019 descendants. It wasn\u2019t very pretty and not something I feel proud to claim as part of my American heritage. Speaking of heritage, Philbrick tells us that \"In 2002 it was estimated that there were approximately 35 million descendants of the Mayflower passengers in the United States, which represents roughly 10 percent of the total U.S.<---F> population</---F>.\" Philbrick, however, does tell us the good with the bad and we also learn of some of the more upstanding descendants. Little tidbits of facts like this were what I enjoyed most about the book. It helped me slog through some of the more textbook-like sections when I knew I might find a little nugget of information I could perhaps read aloud to my husband \u2013 or maybe even share with the family at our Thanksgiving gathering in a couple of weeks from now. I may hesitate to share this view though - \"Fifty-six years after the sailing of the Mayflower, the Pilgrims\u2019 children had not only defeated the Pokanokets in a devastating war, they had taken conscious, methodical measures to purge the land of its people.\" Perhaps we will have to seriously indulge a bit before smashing the myth all to bits! My favorite little chronicle was one which involved Captain Benjamin Church, principal aide to Plymouth\u2019s governor, Josiah Winslow. During one of the final skirmishes of King Philip\u2019s War, several Native Americans were taken as captives. When Church asked one of the older captives his name, he was answered with \u2018Conscience\u2019. Philbrick tells us that Church replied, \"Conscience, then the war is over, for that was what they were searching for, it being much wanting.\" Indeed! I found this to be a worthwhile read, although a bit dry throughout the middle to last sections of the book. Last year I read Philbrick\u2019s In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex and found it to be immensely entertaining and quite effortless. It read much like fiction, and so I expected much of the same with Mayflower . However, in my opinion, this was more like the sort of non-fiction book from which I previously steered away \u2013 one which presents copious facts and dates to the extent that I feel like I am back in school. Some readers that enjoy a myriad of detail will quite enjoy this. History buffs should have no complaints since Philbrick has done his job well here. Since I did enjoy parts of this book and am grateful to be considerably more educated on the topic of the Pilgrims and King Philip\u2019s War, I have rated Mayflower 3.5 stars. ...more Spoiler Alert: The Mayflower lands in Plymouth! Rocks fall, all the Native Americans die. (One of the most interesting things about Mayflower is how little of it actually dealt with the ship itself. The Pilgrims are settled (well, \u201csettled\u201d), and the Mayflower headed back to England to fall into disrepair and be sold for scrap by page 80. More than half the book is spent on King Philip\u2019s War and the events that lead to it, which actually concerns the two generations after the Mayflower\u2019s passenge Spoiler Alert: The Mayflower lands in Plymouth! Rocks fall, all the Native Americans die. (One of the most interesting things about Mayflower is how little of it actually dealt with the ship itself. The Pilgrims are settled (well, \u201csettled\u201d), and the Mayflower headed back to England to fall into disrepair and be sold for scrap by page 80. More than half the book is spent on King Philip\u2019s War and the events that lead to it, which actually concerns the two generations after the Mayflower\u2019s passengers.) Philbrick won a ton of awards with this one (like, say, the National Book Award), all deserved. He takes an excellent look at a period in time frequently overlooked \u2013 American history tends to cover 1620, and then make its way to 1770 and the Revolutionary War in the next chapter (with a slight layover in 1692 for the Witch Trials). It\u2019s incredibly well written, with an excellent balance between the big picture and individual narratives. He\u2019s liberal with anecdotes, which keeps the book from ever getting dry or boring. He quotes contemporary and first person accounts, but not excessively \u2013 this is a book to be read for pleasure, not to be used as a resource. I laughed out loud a couple times, and physically shuddered as well. He reached that all-important goal of bringing his subjects to life. Philbrick also does a good job of presenting a balanced version of events. (Especially considering that most contemporary sources were, at best, biased, because history, as we all know, is written by the victors.) He\u2019s quick to point out the mistakes on both sides \u2013 the rash, racially motivated attacks made by the white settlers, and the never ending litany of missteps made by the Pokanokets, especially \u201cKing\u201d Philip. A few quick observations: I would very much like to slap Increase Mather across the face. (Preferably so hard that Cotton feels it, too.) What an enormous tool. These people were crap at naming their children. Everyone was John, Mary, William, or FEAR. Or Cotton. No wonder they were all a little wacked. I love the irony of having a huge, gluttonous holiday celebration in honor of the Pilgrims, who regularly arrested and punished people for having big holiday celebrations. They would put us all in the stocks. Is there any worse story than Thomas Granger\u2019s? He will always (and I mean always \u2013 it\u2019s already been 350+ years) be known for being convicted of bestiality \u2013 and executed for it. That\u2019s embarrassing. And, finally: How pissed is Miles Standish right now, what with how many times he was called short in this book? ...more When it comes to American history, we have a tendency towards reduction. We cherish the myth over the reality; the bombastic over the subtle; the simple over the complex. In modern media terms, we prefer the soundbite to the whole speech. On the Fourth of July, for example, we aren't thinking about competing mercantile interests, unpaid French-and-Indian War debts, or the Townsend Acts. Not at all. Instead, as we get hot dog-drunk and light off fireworks, we're probably imagining a guy with a wi When it comes to American history, we have a tendency towards reduction. We cherish the myth over the reality; the bombastic over the subtle; the simple over the complex. In modern media terms, we prefer the soundbite to the whole speech. On the Fourth of July, for example, we aren't thinking about competing mercantile interests, unpaid French-and-Indian War debts, or the Townsend Acts. Not at all. Instead, as we get hot dog-drunk and light off fireworks, we're probably imagining a guy with a wig and a tricorne hat saying something about freedom. History is more comforting that way. It's easier. It leaves more time for drinking and nurturing feelings of superiority towards France. Our earliest history, the first European settlements, can be boiled down to one image: the Pilgrim. Picture the Pilgrims with me: grim, black coated men with stiff white collars and funny hats with buckles. They grip their blunderbusses while their doughy, sexless wives grip their elbows. In the brush, something is skulking. It might be a sly turkey. An Indian. A witch. A lost and disoriented Cotton Mather. It doesn't matter. The Pilgrim has that blunderbuss, and it's full of justice. Nathaniel Philbrick's Mayflower is the story of how it really went down. Plymouth Rock and the Pilgrims and Thanksgiving. It's probably not the story you heard in grade school. Like all works of revisionism, Philbrick's book is both enlightening, and a little disappointing. I love history as much as anything. I enjoy the look on a child's face when I remove the scales from his eyes. (\"Washington had poor dental hygiene!\") But even I have to admit it's sometimes nice to be left with our illusions. In this case, the illusion being that white men and Indians were able to come together in mutual cooperation. Even though untrue, it's a fine notion. A retroactive ideal to strive for going forward. The reality, of course, is that the white men took the Indian's corn, took their turkey, then shot them (metaphorically) when they turned around. Later, they shot them for real. And kept shooting until Wounded Knee, near the dawn of the 20th century. But back to the Pilgrims. The story starts with the voyage of the titular ship: The Mayflower was a typical merchant vessel of her day: square-rigged and beak bowed, with high, castlelike superstructures fore and aft that protected her cargo and crew in the worst weather, but made beating against the wind a painfully inefficient endeavor. Rated at 180 tons (meaning her hold was capable of accomodating 180 casks or tuns of wine*), she was approximately three times the size of the Speedwell and about one hundred feet in length. *Like the Pilgrims, I base all measurements on wine. Specifically, I have created the YT Scale. That is, how many 1.5 liter bottles of Yellow Tail wine can fit in this space. Philbrick, who wrote the splendid little whaling book, In the Heart of the Sea , once again tells a fast-paced, informative story, filled with little interesting factoids that make you go, hmm. For the most part, he does the same here. Unfortunately, he is hampered by a dearth of sources. The famous voyage of the Mayflower - which gives the book its title - is told in only a few pages. This is due to the fact that the inveterate diarist William Bradford (full disclosure, I'm distantly related to him...very distantly) himself only devoted a couple paragraphs. Without primary accounts to research, Philbrick has no choice but to move on. It's an instance of source-material driving the narrative. Of course, the lack of primary sources is not Philbrick's fault. He has not - to my knowledge - ever started a fire that burned a library full of Pilgrim diaries. But nonetheless, it hampers any telling of this story. By necessity, he must rely on Bradford a great deal, which gives a one-sided view of what happened. Famous events such as the signing of the Mayflower Compact are told through his eyes, without the benefit of corroboration. We are left to hope that Bradford wasn't totally full of sh-- Well, you get the point. Once the Mayflower has dropped anchor and the Pilgrims gone to shore, the story picks up steam, helped by a widening circle of characters. For instance, we get to meet Benjamin Church, who later became a famous chronicler of King Philip's War. We are also introduced to the irascible Myles Standish, one of the livelier actors of this drama: Myles Standish was officially designated their captain. A small man with a broad, powerful physique and reddish hair, Standish also had something of a chip on his shoulder. He seems to have been born on the Isle of Man off the west coast of England, and even though he was descended from \"the house of Standish of Standish,\" his rightful claim to ancestral lands had been, according to his own account, \"surreptitiously detained from me,\" forcing him to seek his fortune as a mercenary in Holland. Well educated and well read (he owned a copy of Homer's The Iliad and Caesar's Commentaries ), he appears to have conducted himself with a haughty impulsiveness that did not endear him to some of the settlers, one of whom later claimed that the Plymouth captain \"looks like a silly boy, as is in utter contempt.\" The centerpiece of the book is \"the first Thanksgiving.\" Once upon a time, Thanksgiving was a creation of Abraham Lincoln, who was looking for a bright side during that Civil War thing. Today, Thanksgiving is a time of football, overeating, and letting your extended family know how much they have let you down. The original seedling for Thanksgiving was a celebration of the Pilgrims being brought back from the brink with the help of the Wampanoag Indians Massasoit and Squanto. Countless Victorian-era engravings notwithstanding, the Pilgrims did not spend the day sitting around a long table draped with a white linen cloth, clasping each other's hands in prayer as a few curious Indians looked on. Instead of an English affair, the First Thanksgiving soon became an overwhelmingly Native celebration...Most of the celebrants stood, squatted, or sat on the ground as they clustered around outdoor fires, where the deer and birds turned on wooden spits and where pottages - stews into which varieties of meats and vegetables were thrown - simmered invitingly. This thanksgiving was the culmination of a great deal of sacrifice, risk, luck, and shrewdness. We often view Massasoit as having saved the Pilgrims from starvation; what we don't often dwell upon is the fact that the Pilgrims chose Massasoit as an ally, and in doing so, became a power player in the region. The First Thanksgiving occurs just over a hundred pages into Mayflower . There are well over two hundred pages left. After the turkeys are eaten, the wine is drunk, and the drunk uncles are pushed out of the crudely-built log cabins, Philbrick takes the burnished image of interracial cooperation/gluttony and tears it to pieces. What follows is treachery and war. Anyone buying this book to read in preparation of the holiday should know that Philbrick is not interested in holidays. (On the other hand, if you - like me - enjoy horrifying your relatives with cruel historical fact, then get your wallets ready). The Mayflower/Pilgrims/Thanksgiving angle is quickly left behind. The final two thirds of the book are devoted to Pilgrim/Indian politics and King Philip's War. This is certainly interesting stuff. King Philip's War was an incredibly brutal, under-acknowledged affair. Proportionally, it was one of the bloodiest conflicts on American soil (1 out of 65 English and 1 out of 20 Indians were slain). Four of Massasoit's children died in the war (Massasoit himself was already dead). In the end, King Philip was shot, drawn-and-quartered, and beheaded. His head was displayed in Plymouth for 20 years. Happy Thanksgiving! Philbrick is an extremely talented historian and storyteller. He is fast becoming one of my favorite writers. But as hard as he tries to breathe life into this story, there's a coldness and distance to it. This is a function of the material, more so than the author. So much of the Pilgrim tale is supposition: what might have happened. With a lack of primary accounts, a historian is left with the skeleton of an event. Moreover, even where they exist, contemporary accounts are often of limited value. They are not visceral and immediate; they don't allow us to feel the history. Rather, they often had a dual purpose, and being informative was a secondary concern (for a great discussion of Benjamin Church and the literature of this period, see Richard Slotkin's Regeneration Through Violence ). I was very excited to read this book but I was ultimately disappointed. However, as a readable history of this period, with its complex inter-tribal politics, I doubt you can do much better. My disappointment probably has more to do with my inability to actually travel back in time and conduct extensive interviews with all the Pilgrims, Indians, and wild turkeys involved in the making of this history. ...more Nathaniel Philbrick's book \"Mayflower\" appears at first glance to be merely a recounting of the Pilgrims journey to the New World and their miraculous survival that first winter culminating in the first Thanksgiving, that's all here, but takes up only about 80 pages of the 450+ page book. In reality, Philbrick offers the reader a complete history of Plymouth Colony from 1620-1691 (when it was merged into Massachusets Bay colony) The bulk of the narrative focuses on King Phillip's War (1675-76) f Nathaniel Philbrick's book \"Mayflower\" appears at first glance to be merely a recounting of the Pilgrims journey to the New World and their miraculous survival that first winter culminating in the first Thanksgiving, that's all here, but takes up only about 80 pages of the 450+ page book. In reality, Philbrick offers the reader a complete history of Plymouth Colony from 1620-1691 (when it was merged into Massachusets Bay colony) The bulk of the narrative focuses on King Phillip's War (1675-76) for my money one of the most fascinating and under-reported armed conflicts in American History. Philbrick chronicles the main engagements of the war, in a very evenhanded way, praising the colonists bravery when warranted, while at the same time not being afraid to call them the savage butchers that they clearly were. He also does a great job of guiding the reader through understand the complex maze of ever-changing alliances between the colonists and the various native tribes of the region, and analysing how the conflict's long-term consequences helped shape America today. An appropriate book to read this time of year. ...more I was enthralled with this popular history of the first 60 years of Plymouth Colony starting with the Mayflower landing in 1620. With a focus on the actions and decisions of a limited set of key individuals, Philbrick\u2019s account brings to life the initial desperate events of the colony (half of the initial 102 died the first year) and the early years of dependence on the support of the Pokenoket tribe. I was enlightened to learn how decimation of Indian villages by disease and the competitive bal I was enthralled with this popular history of the first 60 years of Plymouth Colony starting with the Mayflower landing in 1620. With a focus on the actions and decisions of a limited set of key individuals, Philbrick\u2019s account brings to life the initial desperate events of the colony (half of the initial 102 died the first year) and the early years of dependence on the support of the Pokenoket tribe. I was enlightened to learn how decimation of Indian villages by disease and the competitive balance between tribes contributed to the ability of the Pilgrims to gain a foothold. In many ways, the sachem (chief) Massasoit was calling the shots in using the alliance with the Pilgrims to enhance his position with respect to rival tribes, and in turn Squanto\u2019s support of the colony as mediator/translator was motivated by his own Machiavellian schemes. Due to past cases of treacherous attacks and kidnapping for slavery on the part of English and French visitors, other tribes to the north and south would not tolerate colonists. Thus, the Indians were not just passive dupes to exploitation and domination by European invades. Though the Pilgrims goal of religious freedom was not very tolerant of other belief systems (as the Quakers learned and individuals executed for bestiality and other personal crimes), they were not empire builders and there was quite a lot of respect for the Indians at first. Philbrick does well to dwell on the factors that contributed to the surprisingly peaceful subsequent period of colonial growth and expansion for nearly 50 years and then to spend half the book on the causes and details of its breach in King Philip\u2019s war of 1675, which decimated the Europeans and nearly extinguished several of the tribes in southern New England. Philbrick\u2019s coverage of compassionate voices for peace and arrogant stupidity on both sides begs the question of whether the war was inevitable. He points out how a sense of a Greek tragedy pervades the progression from a local conflict to an expanded war between several tribes and colonies throughout New England. As evident in two other books of his I enjoyed (his survival saga of the whaling ship Essex and his history of the Battle of the Little Bighorn), Philbrick is a master of balancing the use of primary sources and interpretive reflection in a compelling narrative that rivals that of skilled fiction writers. Philbrick clearly did a lot of research to write this book, but I have no way of telling how much of his synthesis is innovative vs. derivative. What I can say is that the book provided me a good foundation to negotiate the myths and divergent interpretations of European colonialism in the New World and to understand patterns that played out disastrously throughout the westward expansion over the subsequent 200 years. ...more This was an experience similar to David McCullough's John Adams biography for me. It opened my eyes to a world I only had vague images about. And, I come away a little bit bitter and bothered by many different aspects of human behavior, the big one: man's intolerance of other people and their cultures and many times, their ability to blame their bad behavior on the teachings of the Bible or other beliefs in whatever God they worshipped. The Puritans wanted to get away from the religious rules an This was an experience similar to David McCullough's John Adams biography for me. It opened my eyes to a world I only had vague images about. And, I come away a little bit bitter and bothered by many different aspects of human behavior, the big one: man's intolerance of other people and their cultures and many times, their ability to blame their bad behavior on the teachings of the Bible or other beliefs in whatever God they worshipped. The Puritans wanted to get away from the religious rules and regs at the time so that they could practice their religion freely. And yet, it's so ironic that they had very little ability to allow others that same freedom. Disingenuous, proud, sure that God was calling every shot whether good for them or bad for them, they marched ahead with this plan, and it was only with the help of some of the Indians they were even able to survive early on. While they were humble, had low numbers of people, had the support of the Indians, they were peaceful. But as the next generations grew up, they became greedy, selfish and started pushing the Indians around like they were a nuisance, slaves, taking up space, etc. And so, certain of the Indians banded together and started a holy war against their better equipped, better organized and unforgiving Englishmen/Puritan and Pilgrims. It seems like once blood started flowing, no one could think straight and many looked at the Indians as filthy dirty devils. Certainly there was a tremendous case to be made from the Indian perspective that certain of the English were the exact same thing: lying, killing, sanctimonious bastards who never lived up to promises they had made. It has been easy for past historians to whitewash all of the things that happened. This author pointed out that there were good and bad people on both sides of the fence. Really good people. But the end result for me is that the Indians were screwed, got a raw deal, lived in a whole different world that was virtually destroyed, and I feel sick about it. Thanks for guiding me to this book, Michael. ...more A must-read if you're from New England or interested in early colonial era history. Philbrick's Mayflower is written to capture your interest in a way you might not expect a book on the Pil--*YAWN!*--grims could. You'll find much more detail with way more truth in this book than anything you learned about those uptight prigs in elementary school! I think were it not that I've been so spoiled by some amazing history books lately, I'd be rating this five stars. It's certainly the perfect book to read right before American Thanksgiving. The Mayflower , as every American schoolchild has been taught, is the name of the ship that brought the \"Pilgrims,\" a group of religious dissenters, to America to establish one of the earliest English colonies. While still on board the male settlers signed the \"Mayflower Compact\" revered as a precursor to the I think were it not that I've been so spoiled by some amazing history books lately, I'd be rating this five stars. It's certainly the perfect book to read right before American Thanksgiving. The Mayflower , as every American schoolchild has been taught, is the name of the ship that brought the \"Pilgrims,\" a group of religious dissenters, to America to establish one of the earliest English colonies. While still on board the male settlers signed the \"Mayflower Compact\" revered as a precursor to the American Declaration of Independence. There were 102 passengers who took that 65-day voyage--half of them wouldn't survive the winter--yet there are over 35 million of their descendents alive today--about ten percent of America's population. And the Pilgrims wouldn't have survived without the help of the surrounding Native population. We celebrate the harvest feast they held together with Thanksgiving every year--a holiday Philbrick writes \"would have probably baffled and appalled the godly Pilgrims.\" After all, by Philbrick's account, these are people who cancelled Christmas--or at least tried. This is about a lot more than what the title \"Mayflower\" might suggest though. It's not just about the voyage or the original settlers. It's more an account of Amerindian/English relations in the first half century or so of the New England Puritan colonies, stretching from the landing in 1620 to \"King Philip's War\" ending in 1676. Philbrick does as best he can to include the perspective of the Natives, despite the fact that just about every extant account we have was written by the English colonists. He used what \"archeologists, anthropologists and folklorists\" could contribute to enhance the documentary record. He says the beginnings of this book was inspired by a Nantucket Native American symposium he attended and counts himself in debt to those attending in helping with his research. And certainly such Indian figures such as Squanto, Massasoit--and his son \"King\" Philip of the Wampanoags--come across as, or even more, vividly as such figures among the Pilgrims as Miles Standish or William Bradford. Philbrick struck me as fair to both sides of the conflicts. As he put it: My initial impression of the period was bounded by two conflicting preconceptions: the time-honored tradition of how the Pilgrims came to symbolize all that is good about America and the now equally familiar modern tale of how the evil Europeans annihilated the innocent Native Americans. I soon learned that the real-life Indians and English of the seventeenth century were too smart, too generous, too greedy, too brave--in short, too human--to behave so predictably. It's a great story both in substance and style that flew by--a real page turner. At least for anyone interested in American History. As Philbrick himself complains, we Americans tend too quickly to fly past the territory between the Plymouth Landing and the American Revolution. There's plenty in that period of over 150 years that shaped what we are as a country to be so blithely ignored. Philbrick does Americans a service in bringing some of that history to light. It's well-written, well-researched and sourced, and accessible to the layman. ...more Everything you wanted to know about the pilgrims but were afraid to ask... Once again, a ton of new information to me that goes far beyond the \"common knowledge\" we have about this period of America's history, including King Philip's War that was probably the bloodiest war in terms of casualties that this country has ever had. From the first arrival of the pilgrims in a strange and hostile wilderness where it was quickly determined that cooperation with the natives was crucial to their survival to Everything you wanted to know about the pilgrims but were afraid to ask... Once again, a ton of new information to me that goes far beyond the \"common knowledge\" we have about this period of America's history, including King Philip's War that was probably the bloodiest war in terms of casualties that this country has ever had. From the first arrival of the pilgrims in a strange and hostile wilderness where it was quickly determined that cooperation with the natives was crucial to their survival to the complete disintegration of relations between the 2 groups in just 50 years, Philbrick covers it all in his usual engaging narrative style. He's now a favorite of mine right up there with Barbara Tuchman. Considering that roughly 35 million people in the United States are descended from the Pilgrims, it's a history that be more thoroughly understood, and not the kiddie picture book version that we all know. I recommend it highly! ...more This was a good (though not as good as In the Heart of the Sea ) yet challenging read. Though titled after the Mayflower , this is really a story about the Pilgrims, their search for religious freedom, and their relationship with the Native Indians that culminates in a detailed account of King Philip's war. The book is well-researched and well-written, if occasionally hard to follow; there's just a lot of info here. In addition, the narrative shifts constantly to reflect whatever references were use This was a good (though not as good as In the Heart of the Sea ) yet challenging read. Though titled after the Mayflower , this is really a story about the Pilgrims, their search for religious freedom, and their relationship with the Native Indians that culminates in a detailed account of King Philip's war. The book is well-researched and well-written, if occasionally hard to follow; there's just a lot of info here. In addition, the narrative shifts constantly to reflect whatever references were used at the time, which means introducing lots of characters. Prior to reading this, I knew very little about the Pilgrims - except for popular mythology - and I think this book gave me a much better appreciation for the significance of the Mayflower and her passengers as well as a more realistic idea of the relationship between the natives and European settlers. I was especially intrigued by the evolving and complex relationship that facilitated alliances on one hand and incited war on the other. I also was horrified by the descriptions of violence perpetrated by both sides: dismembering the dead (both sides), displaying the severed heads of their fallen enemies (Pilgrims), scalping live victims (Indians), burning women and children alive (Pilgrims), and awarding body parts to soldiers as trophies (Pilgrims). Bottom line: I learned a lot and it's not all nice (though all ordained by God...LOL). Would recommend this to American History buffs. What a bloody and cruel history it is. While a little exhausting, I liked it enough to order yet another work by the same author. ...more Interesting read, and by far the best account of the Pilgrims' ordeal that I've seen so far. The first half of the book is a real page-turner which details the pre-Mayflower days in England and Holland -the ordeal of finding financing while avoiding persecution from their mother country - and moves on to the 10-week voyage and the harrowing first winter in Plymouth. The author then skips forward about 40 years, to give his account of King Philip's war and the consequent annihilation of most of N Interesting read, and by far the best account of the Pilgrims' ordeal that I've seen so far. The first half of the book is a real page-turner which details the pre-Mayflower days in England and Holland -the ordeal of finding financing while avoiding persecution from their mother country - and moves on to the 10-week voyage and the harrowing first winter in Plymouth. The author then skips forward about 40 years, to give his account of King Philip's war and the consequent annihilation of most of New England's indiginous peoples (as well as the ultimate destruction of European-Indian relations). My problem was that I felt that by glossing over the years between the first days of the colony and the war with Massasoit's son, we aren't given enough of a context for the war, and I felt I wanted to understand both sides. The author continually refers to the grown children of the Mayflower passengers and how the ideals outlined in the Compact were broken down over the years, but since we aren't let in on the *story*, we simply have to take the author's word for it. As a result, I found the account of the war a bit less interesting than the first half of the book. I will say this: Philbrick does make many of the historical characters come alive - particularly Miles Standish and Benjamin Church - fleshing out and breathing life into many of the figures that we all have embedded in our consciousness as grade-school characatures. ...more This is not a book about the crossing over on the Mayflower, although that is briefly touched on. This book describes the years leading up to the voyage, and the Pilgrims first 55 years in America. The first part of the book reads like fiction with passages such as this: \u201cWhat would have astounded a modern sensibility transported back to that Christmas Day in 1620 was the absolute quiet of the scene. Save for the gurgling of Town Brook, the lap of waves against the shore, and the wind in the bar This is not a book about the crossing over on the Mayflower, although that is briefly touched on. This book describes the years leading up to the voyage, and the Pilgrims first 55 years in America. The first part of the book reads like fiction with passages such as this: \u201cWhat would have astounded a modern sensibility transported back to that Christmas Day in 1620 was the absolute quiet of the scene. Save for the gurgling of Town Brook, the lap of waves against the shore, and the wind in the bare winter branches, everything was silent as they listed and waited.\u201d The second part of the book \u2013 the war years \u2013 reads a bit different, but was informative and well written. What I found interesting was the difference in attitude that the Pilgrims had towards the native people verses the attitude their descendants had toward them. The Pilgrims needed the help of Indians to survive, so they did what they must to keep the peace with their neighbors. But once the second generation came along, and they no longer needed help, peace dissolved and war was inevitable. I really enjoyed this book, loved the maps, and learned so much. I look forward to reading more books by Nathaniel Philbrick. ...more Good research here and lots of historical facts about the Mayflower, the early days of settlement, and the increasing tensions with the native inhabitants of the New World, but the presentation was generally unimaginative. It took the form of a plodding linear trudge through time. It was at times amazing to consider what the pilgrims went through and what they put the Native Americans through, but it wasn\u2019t until the final chapter that the author pulled the pieces together and gave a narrative s Good research here and lots of historical facts about the Mayflower, the early days of settlement, and the increasing tensions with the native inhabitants of the New World, but the presentation was generally unimaginative. It took the form of a plodding linear trudge through time. It was at times amazing to consider what the pilgrims went through and what they put the Native Americans through, but it wasn\u2019t until the final chapter that the author pulled the pieces together and gave a narrative story and POV. Often I didn\u2019t know quite where it was all going or how to interpret what was happening. So, in a sense, by the time I \u201cgot it,\u201d \u201cit\u201d was already over and I kind of missed the full flavor of the events. One thing that didn\u2019t escape me: the Pilgrims were self absorbed, clueless savages who were probably just as bad if not worse that the heathens they detested, cheated, defiled, persecuted, enslaved, quartered, beheaded, and ultimately destroyed in true genocidal fashion. In other words, they're kind of like people today, just a little rougher around the edges. This is not to say that the book falsely potrayed Indians as noble savages, either. But it doesn't take much imagination to see that the religiously inspired were resoundingly unholy and inhumane. ...more Profoundly readable history of the Mayflower and the Pilgrim's Plymouth Colony settlement in the early 17th century. Much of what I was taught about this was either wrong or grossly misleading. It is astounding what the early settlers had thrown at them and managed to barely survive. Brutal weather, horrible leadership, devastating diseases, native American attacks and betrayals, and massive food shortages plagued the settlers right from the start and never let up. It's a story of perseverance a Profoundly readable history of the Mayflower and the Pilgrim's Plymouth Colony settlement in the early 17th century. Much of what I was taught about this was either wrong or grossly misleading. It is astounding what the early settlers had thrown at them and managed to barely survive. Brutal weather, horrible leadership, devastating diseases, native American attacks and betrayals, and massive food shortages plagued the settlers right from the start and never let up. It's a story of perseverance and courage against the relentless, unforgiving backdrop of early colonial America. Philbrick's writing, as usual, is razor sharp, engaging, and extraordinarily readable. I'd highly recommend this book not only for people interested in early American history but also those looking for a surprisingly riveting, fast paced non-fiction read. Truly spectacular accomplishment. ...more It's good. Philbrick includes so much interesting information upon the physical world, beyond the historic events and people. Especially within ship voyages, as he does here with the Gulf Stream. These people on the Mayflower were serious about their religion. And to have such faith in their God's protection! But it is nearly impossible to form the perceptions and conceptions of their reality to what they would find, IMHO. Because their entire worldview was so elementally different. Four of those It's good. Philbrick includes so much interesting information upon the physical world, beyond the historic events and people. Especially within ship voyages, as he does here with the Gulf Stream. These people on the Mayflower were serious about their religion. And to have such faith in their God's protection! But it is nearly impossible to form the perceptions and conceptions of their reality to what they would find, IMHO. Because their entire worldview was so elementally different. Four of those kids on the voyage were parceled out by a unforgiving husband to people who had no blood relation. So many things were common that we would be appalled at in base cognition. The conflicts. And the strange alliances. He is very good at his description and explanation. But I did not enjoy this one as much as I did his Heart of the Sea. Perhaps because I knew so much more about the era previously. ...more We Americans all have some vision of the Pilgrims, from Plymouth Rock to the first Thanksgiving, to what the colonial world looked like. The elementary school version--which has remarkable staying power for many--is the image of religious Pilgrims seeking religious freedom in a new world, nurtured by the help of the natives, giving us our idyllic First Thanksgiving. The revised standard version from the '60s focuses on the decimation of the native populations, the rapacious capitalists among the We Americans all have some vision of the Pilgrims, from Plymouth Rock to the first Thanksgiving, to what the colonial world looked like. The elementary school version--which has remarkable staying power for many--is the image of religious Pilgrims seeking religious freedom in a new world, nurtured by the help of the natives, giving us our idyllic First Thanksgiving. The revised standard version from the '60s focuses on the decimation of the native populations, the rapacious capitalists among the first settlers, and perhaps the Pilgrims actual record of religious intolerance. Into these competing versions comes Nathaniel Philbrick's <+++>Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War</+++> (2006). He traces events from the development of Puritan communities in England, their migration first to the Netherlands, and finally their hope of establishing an ideal religious community in America. The Pilgrims had come to America not to conquer a continent, but to re-create their modest communities in Scrooby and Leiden. When they arrived at Plymouth in December 1620 and found it emptied of people, it seemed as if God had given them exactly what they were looking for. But as they quickly discovered during that first terrifying fall and winter, New England was far from uninhabited. There were still plenty of Native people, and to ignore or anger them was to risk annihilation. The Pilgrims' religious beliefs played a dominant role in the decades ahead, but it was their deepening relationship with the Indians that turned them into Americans. By forcing the English to improvise, the Indians prevented Plymouth Colony from ossifying into a monolithic cult of religious extremism. For their part, the Indians were profoundly influenced by the English and quickly created a new and dynamic culture full of Native and Western influences. For a nation that has come to recognize that one of its greatest strengths is its diversity, the first fifty years of Plymouth Colony stand as a model of what America might have been from the very beginning. By the midpoint of the seventeenth century, however, the attitudes of many of the Indians and English had begun to change. With only a fraction of their original homeland remaining, more and more young Pokanokets claimed it was time to rid themselves of the English. The Pilgrims' children, on the other hand, coveted what territory the Pokanokets still possessed and were already anticipating the day when the Indians had, through the continued effects of disease and poverty, ceased to exist. Both sides had begun to envision a future that did not include the other. This leads to a major section of the book, on King Philip's War. Philbrick paints a fascinating picture of some of the personalities and cultural forces that defined the war, tensions not only between English settlers and natives, but within each group as well. The nuanced vision offered of early New England was very interesting, particularly the earliest discovery and the war, was fascinating. Perhaps the most interesting chapter in the whole thing was the epilogue, from which the quotation above was taken, in which Philbrick not only brought together for summary and analysis everything that had come before, but also looked at the process of mythologizing that occurred in the intervening centuries, with each generation reinterpreting the stories for its own time. There was even, obliquely, an interesting implied (or at least, lightly stated) analogy to our current \"war on terror.\" Although I've only lived here a year and a half, it was also interesting to get a glimpse at the history of this area that is currently my home. Even for those of you living outside of New England, though, I recommend this book highly. ...more Beyond Turkeys, Cranberry Sauce, Tall Hats, and Buckled Shoes Nathaniel Philbrick's remarkable \"Mayflower\" is everything you'd hope a history book to be: illuminating, lively, and authoritative. This was simply a terrific read, a fascinating glimpse into the events and people serving as the first bricks in our nation's foundation. Beyond the fairytale images of \"The First Thanksgiving\", most basic American history skips from the Mayflower's 1620 landing in Plymouth the American Revolution, glossi Beyond Turkeys, Cranberry Sauce, Tall Hats, and Buckled Shoes Nathaniel Philbrick's remarkable \"Mayflower\" is everything you'd hope a history book to be: illuminating, lively, and authoritative. This was simply a terrific read, a fascinating glimpse into the events and people serving as the first bricks in our nation's foundation. Beyond the fairytale images of \"The First Thanksgiving\", most basic American history skips from the Mayflower's 1620 landing in Plymouth the American Revolution, glossing over the rich and brawling century-and-a-half spanning these two events. Philbrick zeroes in on the first half-century, stripping away the myth and homily typically associated with the Pilgrims and laying bare a fascinating tale of courage and deceit, of trusts forged and broken, of politics, religion, brutality, and war. All the familiar figures are there - William Bradford, Miles Standish, Pokanoket Indian chief Massoit, Squanto, and Edward Winslow, but Philbrick focuses on less celebrated figures like Benjamin Church and Massoit's son Phillip, who while hardy household names today leave behind legacies that helped shape what would become a century later the United States of America. This is a story ripe with opportunity for politically correct revisionism, but the author walks a balanced line, alternately praising and condemning the deeds and players of both the English and the Native Americans. We learn, for example, that near-starvation in the first two years had as much to do with the Pilgrim's failed experiment in socialism as it did with harsh winters and poor soil. This led Bradford to adopt a policy allowing each family to grow and hunt not for the \"commonwealth\", but for themselves. Thanks to Bradford's newly discovered spirit of capitalism, the colony is soon producing a surplus of food. There may be a perverse humor in the irony of contemporary images of God-fearing Pilgrims in tall hats and buckled shoes when matched with the reality of a people who would draw and quarter their enemies and display their heads on pikes. But this is no less naive than euphemistic views of New England's \"peaceful and noble Indians\", who in fact warred with rival tribes for centuries before the arrival of the Europeans, and showed no lack of talent or imagination for treachery, torture, and manipulation. In short, \"Mayflower\" is that rare historical chronicle that reads with the all intrigue and energy of well-written novel, and important expose of an overlooked period of our history with lessons as relevant today as they were three centuries ago. Well done, Mr. Philbrick. ...more This wasn't exactly what I was expecting in terms of writing as well as the premise of the book. I had anticipated the book to be written similarly to In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex , which had many facts but was similar to a novel in its storytelling. Mayflower was rather dry and, whereas I did learn a great deal, I found myself drowning in a sea of facts. The book, as a friend had mentioned, reads more like a textbook, thus less enjoyable. As far as the story, I was This wasn't exactly what I was expecting in terms of writing as well as the premise of the book. I had anticipated the book to be written similarly to In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex , which had many facts but was similar to a novel in its storytelling. Mayflower was rather dry and, whereas I did learn a great deal, I found myself drowning in a sea of facts. The book, as a friend had mentioned, reads more like a textbook, thus less enjoyable. As far as the story, I was expecting to learn more about the voyage (although it was established that there isn't much in the way of resources on the journey) and about the social aspects in the Pilgrim and/or Puritan communities. I'd have to say that a quarter of the story revolved around community and culture with the other 3/4 dedicated to King Philip's War. Perhaps, the title should have indicated more about Pilgrim/Puritan and Native relations since that was the bulk of the book. 3 stars ...more MUST READ!! Even if you're not a history buff, you will benefit from finally hearing the true story of the roots of this country. Philbrick bridges the gap between the prevailing ideals of this time, the first being the sweet story- of the pilgrims and natives sitting down for turkey and indian corn and pie, trading goods and stories alike, the second being the idea that those brutal English arrived and forced the natives off their land- Bad English, Bad! Of course, it's much more complicated th MUST READ!! Even if you're not a history buff, you will benefit from finally hearing the true story of the roots of this country. Philbrick bridges the gap between the prevailing ideals of this time, the first being the sweet story- of the pilgrims and natives sitting down for turkey and indian corn and pie, trading goods and stories alike, the second being the idea that those brutal English arrived and forced the natives off their land- Bad English, Bad! Of course, it's much more complicated than that and Philbrick does an amazing job of telling the story without being biased toward one group or the other. What was amazing to discover was that the line wasn't even drawn so distinctly between the two groups. Ultimately, I believe this is a story about the human condition. How we are all fundamentally the same regardless of background or race. What most resonated with me while reading this, is how much these people were able to live through without just completely falling apart. I mean, in today's society we get upset if our cable goes out or we need therapy because we can't make our relationships work, or someone shoots someone on the highway for cutting them off. The hardship that both the pilgrims and the natives had to handle is not even comparable! Disease, starvation, and to lose a child is the most gut-wrenching ordeal imaginable and so many had to go through this more than once. Not to scare anyone off though, this book is not all doom and gloom. There are so many moments of surprise and even funny nuggets of history. And if you live or have ever lived in the New England area you will have a special connection to this historical era. This book is especially relevant in an election year, when we need to rememember the people who began this country. And regardless of where you fall on the political spectrum, the important thing to remember is that these people were independent thinkers! They didn't have the mind-numbing media telling them what to think or politicians giving them false promises inside fancy speeches. Funny how the key word today is \"Change\" and that's just what the Pilgrims were searching for, the difference is that they were faithful and knew exactly how they wanted to live, were willing to risk everything for it, and did. Today we hear the word \"Change\" and applaud with no clue what's behind it, what the implications in that word are.... because, I'm sure as many of the pilgrims would attest, not all change is good. ...more I'm pretty sure Philbrick didn't pick this title. Very little of this book is about the Mayflower or the first Thanksgiving, or landing at Plymouth. It's really about \"King Phillip's War\" a 14 month protracted and bloody conflict between English settlers and Native American tribes that took place a generation or two after the Mayflower arrived. Philbrick states that this war was the impetus for his writing and the focus of his research in the very beginning of the book. I cannot blame him for th I'm pretty sure Philbrick didn't pick this title. Very little of this book is about the Mayflower or the first Thanksgiving, or landing at Plymouth. It's really about \"King Phillip's War\" a 14 month protracted and bloody conflict between English settlers and Native American tribes that took place a generation or two after the Mayflower arrived. Philbrick states that this war was the impetus for his writing and the focus of his research in the very beginning of the book. I cannot blame him for the publisher's attempt to gerrymander this nonfiction work to sound and look like his successful tomes on nautical history. That said, I was mildly disappointed that Philbrick didn't spend more time on the original settlers and the first Thanksgiving, as my knowledge of these events is still poor and dependent on grade-school- national-mythology-whitewashing. Most of the real estate in this book is taken up by inter-tribal politicking, ignorant colonial mindsets, and the inevitable bloodbath that results from the combination of these two. It lacks the narrative thru-line of In The Heart of the Sea , and other things I've enjoyed by Philbrick, and so was kind of tough to hang on to at times. Still, beneficial for anyone looking for an attempt at a less biased view of the real origins of the United States. http://joshuarigsby.com ...more On the positive side, I thought this book was well researched and clearly written. I also valued that this book brought to light a realistic view of how the Pilgrims approached the Native American people, land, and resources. However, I found the book to be less about the voyage of the Mayflower and the overall life of the Pilgrims settling Plymouth Colony, and more of a factual recitation of the continuous conflict that ensued between the Pilgrims and the Native Americans. The book is less like On the positive side, I thought this book was well researched and clearly written. I also valued that this book brought to light a realistic view of how the Pilgrims approached the Native American people, land, and resources. However, I found the book to be less about the voyage of the Mayflower and the overall life of the Pilgrims settling Plymouth Colony, and more of a factual recitation of the continuous conflict that ensued between the Pilgrims and the Native Americans. The book is less like a novel with a handful of developed characters and engaging events, and more like a textbook with a chronological account that includes many individuals and a stream of activity. I listened to the audio version of this book and, although I like detailed non-fiction, I found myself increasing the audio speed in order to power through the many details of the military conflict in the last several chapters. I think this book would appeal most to those with a strong interest in the specific details of the conflict between the arriving Pilgrims and the residing Native Americans. ...more I just finished Mayflower by Nathaniel Philbrick and give it 4 out of 5 stars. How have I missed out on Nathaniel Philbrick's writing? I really enjoyed his writing style and he really seems to know his stuff. Mayflower is of course about the voyage the Pilgrims took in 1620 to come to America from England. I learned a lot about the voyage and the Pilgrims' founding of Plymouth while listening to this audiobook. Everyone hears about the first Thanksgiving, but I didn't know about the various wars I just finished Mayflower by Nathaniel Philbrick and give it 4 out of 5 stars. How have I missed out on Nathaniel Philbrick's writing? I really enjoyed his writing style and he really seems to know his stuff. Mayflower is of course about the voyage the Pilgrims took in 1620 to come to America from England. I learned a lot about the voyage and the Pilgrims' founding of Plymouth while listening to this audiobook. Everyone hears about the first Thanksgiving, but I didn't know about the various wars and struggles they had against various Indian tribes (primarily the Pokanoket tribe). Nor did I know very much about the Pilgrims William Bradford and Miles Standish (among others), or of the Indians Massasoit and Squanto (among others). This book was very well researched, and very well written by Philbrick, but the only complaint I have about it is that it got quite heavy handed with all the Indian names and tribal names, and it got confusing at times following along. Other than that, it was a very enjoyable read. ...more Omg. This book should not be disguised as a novel!! It's really a text book- don't be fooled!! I must finish this one by this thanksgiving and impress everyone at the dinner table with my knowledge of the first thanksgivingers hardships and triumphs. I think it's been 2 yrs. I've been trying to finish this one:p Philbrick tells two stories, one of the Pilgrims, devout separatist Puritans who founded Plymouth Colony in 1620 seeking religious freedom and peace; another of succeeding generations with less worthy motivations. Philbrick is at his very best describing the first generation, their sacrifice and hardships, their faith and fortitude, their reliance on the help of the Indians and their striving for cooperation and peaceful coexistence. But before long their high ideals began to erode. Then in the Philbrick tells two stories, one of the Pilgrims, devout separatist Puritans who founded Plymouth Colony in 1620 seeking religious freedom and peace; another of succeeding generations with less worthy motivations. Philbrick is at his very best describing the first generation, their sacrifice and hardships, their faith and fortitude, their reliance on the help of the Indians and their striving for cooperation and peaceful coexistence. But before long their high ideals began to erode. Then in the 1630\u2019s and early 1640\u2019s many thousands of less principled Puritans settled in New England. As the colonies grew exponentially so did the demand for more land for crops, pasture and timber. The colonists became increasingly concerned with economic enrichment and used their religion to justify it at the Indians expense. The Indians too were becoming dependent on and corrupted by European goods. Both sides engaged in duplicity and mayhem. Alliances were constantly made and broken between Indian and colonial communities. A chaotic web of relationships ensued that culminated in King Philip\u2019s War in 1675, an extremely bloody conflict that also devastated the New England economy. Philbrick\u2019s narrative of the Pilgrims reads like a novel but gives way to a more typical history as he recounts the numerous battles and figures involved in this first major Indian war. We see how the Puritans decimated the Indian population, killing thousands and shipping thousands more off as slaves for profit. They won the Indian\u2019s land but they would lose the freedom from the Crown that their fathers had sought. A few years later King James II appointed a royal governor for New England. The colonies now had to rely on England to recover from the war and ensure their continued expansion. Thus the stage was set for more wars against the Indians, wars against the French and ultimately for war against their homeland 100 years later. In just 55 years from the landing at Plymouth to the outbreak of King Philip\u2019s War New England grew from a small band of separatist Puritans to tens of thousands of colonists who recreated the violent world they left behind in Europe and whose descendants would in turn rebel against the authority their ancestors had escaped. ...more I found this book to be very informative. The beginning of the book, which described the Puritans struggle to come to America, was interesting. I also thought that the descriptions of the initial days of their lives in the foreign land, largely surviving only on the provisions they brought with them and coping with much colder weather than they were used to, was fascinating. The middle portion of the book, which described life for the Plymouth Rock colony after other other groups from England ha I found this book to be very informative. The beginning of the book, which described the Puritans struggle to come to America, was interesting. I also thought that the descriptions of the initial days of their lives in the foreign land, largely surviving only on the provisions they brought with them and coping with much colder weather than they were used to, was fascinating. The middle portion of the book, which described life for the Plymouth Rock colony after other other groups from England had immigrated to more desirable regions of Massachusetts, was interesting, but not as riveting. But the ending chapters of the book, recounting the year or so of King Philip's War, helped the book end on a highly dramatic note, particularly with the descriptions of the kidnapping and holding of Mary Rowlandson (who later became America's first best-selling author with her book about her ordeal). The book also enabled many of the figures of that time, such as Miles Standish and William Bradford, to come alive as real people, complete with their good points and blemishes, and not remain the historical figures we learned about in school. I also liked the way the book ended, with a description of Plymouth Rock today and the efforts of the local Historical Society to save what is left of the rock and instill continued interest in learning about our forefathers. When this book first came out I shied away from it, even though I love to read American history, thinking it would be dry and not very interesting, just the way I found it as an elementary school student many years ago. But I am glad I read it, because the book was much more interesting than I initially thought it would be. ...more I was absolutely fascinated by this story of the lives of the Pilgrims - their early exile to Holland in order to worship according to their faith, the decision to set up a colony in North America, and what transpired over 3 generations of diplomacy and war with the Native Americans. It was clear from the start that the colonies needed a relationship with the native peoples in order to survive, and it was also clear that this relationship would end in war. The most exciting aspect of this book w I was absolutely fascinated by this story of the lives of the Pilgrims - their early exile to Holland in order to worship according to their faith, the decision to set up a colony in North America, and what transpired over 3 generations of diplomacy and war with the Native Americans. It was clear from the start that the colonies needed a relationship with the native peoples in order to survive, and it was also clear that this relationship would end in war. The most exciting aspect of this book was its setting - Southern New England in the 17th century. We see the emergence and development of the places in which we now live - Providence, Boston, Cape Cod, Newport - and can follow the settlers as they journey among these places on foot in all seasons, imagine the landscape as it existed prior to the development of the cities and roads and any form of transportation. The treatment of the native peoples, the overly-severe and unjust system of justice, and the escalation of war are eerily familiar to those of us who live in this same place 4 centuries later. We have not come very far, have not yet become enlightened as to how to live in peace and accept one another's differences, or to avoid war. I will soon go to visit the Great Swamp, and read the monuments that commemorate the \"massacre\" or \"victory\" that took place there. I've driven past the markers hundreds of times, but never knew..... Read this book! You will not be able to put it down after the pilgrims land on the shores of Cape Cod, I promise you. I also recommend his book \"In the heart of the sea: the tragedy of the Whaleship Essex\". ...more This was just so hard for me to get through. Audio saved me for sure. It was worth reading with my book club friends; I'm glad they are so brave and will take on the difficult and the different. Way to go, girls!! I think it's interesting that the first settlers really didn't care that much for freedom of religion for all. They seemed to want the freedom to impose their ideas on their society as a whole. As soon as they could they started laying down the religious dogma and tried to make everyone This was just so hard for me to get through. Audio saved me for sure. It was worth reading with my book club friends; I'm glad they are so brave and will take on the difficult and the different. Way to go, girls!! I think it's interesting that the first settlers really didn't care that much for freedom of religion for all. They seemed to want the freedom to impose their ideas on their society as a whole. As soon as they could they started laying down the religious dogma and tried to make everyone toe the line. I am really glad that I have some understanding of who King Philip is and what King Philip's war was all about. Now I won't look like such a newb if the subject ever comes up. I feel accomplished that I read an important book about the founding of my country. I have years of improvement still, but I took my medicine like a good girl. ...more Clear, interesting history of the Pilgrims and their voyage to the New England. I found this book engrossing and not dry reading at all which sometimes histories can be. So glad I read this as I've been to Plymouth and can picture where the events took place. Would recommend this highly. 8/16 - Just as good as the first time reading. I really like hearing about places where events took place and looking them up on google or wikipedia to see what they look like today. I found the account of my ancestor who was swept overboard and barely rescued in this book. It added to our family culture. This account of the Mayflower and the subsequent colonies in New England was balanced, detailed and quite readable. First off, I am to blame for having expectations. I thought Mayflower would be an easy reading general history of the Pilgrims and the foundation of the Plymouth Colony. It was, for about 1/3 of the book. It was so general that I don't think I learned anything. Little attention is paid to the how's and why's of the Pilgrims departure from England. It is explained that they didn't like the formal Church of England so they left. Okay, that's a bit to broad for me. Little detail is provided about w First off, I am to blame for having expectations. I thought Mayflower would be an easy reading general history of the Pilgrims and the foundation of the Plymouth Colony. It was, for about 1/3 of the book. It was so general that I don't think I learned anything. Little attention is paid to the how's and why's of the Pilgrims departure from England. It is explained that they didn't like the formal Church of England so they left. Okay, that's a bit to broad for me. Little detail is provided about who the individuals were- only a few people get any attention. Once the colony is established all military activity is attributed to Miles Standish. Little biographical information is given about him and no primary sources are quoted so I can only assume his motives are the author's conjecture. The narrative itself focuses mostly on the Indians who are portrayed in greater detail but in a confusing manner. The final 1/3 of the book focuses on King Philip's War- fought 50+ years after the founding of Plymouth. The section/chapter transitions seem like they were written by an editor not the author as they contain rather clich\u00e9 `cliffhanger' foreshadowings. So on this score it had little to do with my expectations and more to do with the style- which I did not like. As to the books broadness the author speaks of military technology in the colony as having moved passed that of Europe. Specifically he talks about various types of muskets: the flintlock, snaplock and matchlock varieties. But at no point does he explain what those are, how they differ, or why one is better suited to Indian fighter vs. fighting a European style army. This kind of thing is typical throughout the book. The author tell us one paragraph of the great abundance of fish, whales, birds, deer, shellfish etc. in the area of Plymouth and in the next paragraph tells us how the Pilgrims are starving. He does little to explain how or why they were unable to take advantage of the natural resources or why they came so unprepared. The author is most critical of the Pilgrims decades AFTER Bradford and Massasoit were gone. He hardly mentions that Bradford for decades DID embrace our nations most treasured values -- democracy (gosh -- Bradford led with town meetings!), separation of church and state (no religious leaders held political office while Bradford was Governor), free enterprise (tossing the original socialist system overboard), and trial by jury (12 jurors). Bradford is the \"grandfather of America\" and all of New England, and many Natives, mourned his death. Bradford wanted a small community, and was OPPOSED to Europeans coming over the sea and grabbing land, but you'd never know it to read Philbrick's book. Philbrick suggests Bradford was naive, trusting the merchant backers, but he did so when there was no choice. Why did Philbrick omit the examples of Bradford's shrewdness ... when he personally uncovered a plot to overthrow Plymouth and exposed the plotters... or when the King sent a new governor and some at Plymouth wanted to overthrow the man, but Bradford wisely and correctly waited the man out, saying, \"Governor Gorges hates it here, and he'll soon return to England\" (which he did)? He omitted 90% of the positive facts about Bradford and the Pilgrims during the Bradford years. Philbrick makes a big deal of the Pilgrims stealing seed corn from the Natives. But they had just landed in the New World, had heard nothing but horror stories about the savages, and .. by the way ... after meeting and making peace with the Natives, PAID them back. The author mentions Bradford taking the helm of a fishing boat, but downplays his heroism -- the colony was about to starve and no one else would said the ship, so Bradford sailed into tracherous waters, at great personal risk (and with success). Bradford enabled the New World to become the United States. No Bradford, no US. The author seems to think it was easy for the Pilgrims and the many non-Pilgrims on the Mayflower to form a peaceful community; even after describing all the failed colonies, Philbrick hardly gives Bradford credit for building the houses, government, legal system, economic system, judiciary, and foreign relations. But Bradford pulled off a miracle, and he did it with courage, humility, tolerance, brilliance, honesty, and respect (of Natives and of the colonists who elected him 31 times). Plymouth was overrun by Puritans who, under Winthrop, was a nasty theocracy. The author criticizes Bradford's intolerance, yet he opened the doors to Quakers and others persecuted elsewhere. True -- he didn't want the Quakers to stay, becuase they were disruptive )stripping naked and screaming during their church services). But Philbrick doesn't mention this. This Week magazine, in the current issue, gives a scathing review of Philbrick, saying his history was unscholarly, and for some reason he calls a \"hero\" the white man who chopped the Indian leader into 4 parts. My criticism is that the author must have deliberately wanted to do a politically correct \"hatchet job\" on the Pilgrims, downplaying the wonderful human values and leadership strengths of Bradford, implying that he was responsible for evils by the colonists long after he left office. ...more<---C>Nathaniel Philbrick</---C>", "Title": "Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War"},
