{"Comments": "At a Bookstore in India Sir, I see that you are checking out this book by <---A>Mohsin Hamid</---A> . I read it a few days back. How did I find it you ask? Well, it was pretty interesting. I found the narration style of the author quite unique. I think that alone was reason enough to make it worth.<---F> Oh, you are getting distracted</---F>. I see you are eyeing those shining new book covers of The Hunger Games and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo . They came out after the movies were released. No, I have not seen the At a Bookstore in India Sir, I see that you are checking out this book by Mohsin Hamid . I read it a few days back. How did I find it you ask? Well, it was pretty interesting. I found the narration style of the author quite unique. I think that alone was reason enough to make it worth. Oh, you are getting distracted. I see you are eyeing those shining new book covers of The Hunger Games and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo . They came out after the movies were released. No, I have not seen the movies but it\u2019s good to hear that you found them intriguing. Are you looking forward to reading the books? That\u2019s very good. I found the books impressive but just my experience with movies inspired from books made me avoid the movies. It\u2019s okay that you are a casual reader. Nowadays most of us are. I see in your grip on the book and the way your eyes exuded enthusiasm when you saw the new cover, that you like to buy books. What prompted you to find this book then? You heard it from a friend and he recommended it to you. Very wise of him/her, I must say. You see, this book is about a young Pakistani who went to the US for studies and later lived there with a very lucrative job. He detailed the events of his life like finding his first job, his first crush which later became love and the twists that happened post 9/11. Your eyes are drifting. I think you are becoming bored. You feel this story line has been covered umpteen times in many books. I must give you something which makes this one different? I say, it\u2019s the simplicity of this story. The emotions displayed by the younger generation of the third world countries when they work for the very country which is making the life of their own people back home miserable. This is a new breed that has worked their brains hard, can speak English effortlessly and are starting with salaries which are much more than their father's. Now you are able to connect with it. You are turning some pages to look if you find it interesting.Reading a full page from the middle of the book is also a good idea. What did you find so astonishing here? Yes, he had a conversation with some man who changed his heart. But let me tell you that he was not a religious fanatic. No it won\u2019t turn into the usual brainwashing of the literate story. Here, you will see some soft emotions. I have to admit the ending is not so interesting but I hope that won\u2019t make the whole book useless for you. In meeting you the pleasure was all mine. I like to talk to people about books. Many times you will find me standing alone at this or the other corner of the book store. Would you like to recommend some book to me? The next time do tell me about your favorite books. You are buying this book. I hope you will not regret it. Let me know how you like it. :) ...more On a flight back to US from India, about half an hour was left to land in San Francisco,<---M> everyone was asleep</---M>, when we heard the captain speaking over the intercom. All I heard was something about how we were about to land in Japan. In my sleepy state I assumed that something was wrong with the plane and was about to panic when my husband told me the rest of the captain's message. Apparently we were denied entry into United States because a passenger was on their no-fly list. On landing in Japan, On a flight back to US from India, about half an hour was left to land in San Francisco, everyone was asleep, when we heard the captain speaking over the intercom. All I heard was something about how we were about to land in Japan. In my sleepy state I assumed that something was wrong with the plane and was about to panic when my husband told me the rest of the captain's message. Apparently we were denied entry into United States because a passenger was on their no-fly list. On landing in Japan, as we all emptied the plane, I saw a family of about 6 - a young boy, bearded, about 20, and women of different ages wearing burkha's - sitting quietly in the center seats not meeting anyones eyes. I remarked to my husband about how horrid they must be feeling, that just because they are Muslims they must have shown up on the security radar for US. Once the aircraft had been emptied out, the family was brought out with about 10 men surrounding them and taken away. We boarded the plane again and went on our way. Once there, we told our friends about our \"adventure\" and had discussions about racial profiling, heard stories from others about how they had been subjected to profiling. Pro's and con's of racial profiling, US government, security, prejudice, patriotism, terrorism.. I'm sure you can all imagine what was discussed and debated. I remember sympathizing with the family on the plane. About a week later, I read that the young boy had later been sent to US and arrested on arrival. Allegedly he had gone to Pakistan and had taken part in a terrorist camp. I did not follow the case since then. Those of you who are still reading this post, thanks :). Throughout the book, as I heard <---C>Changez</---C> (<---B>the young Pakistani protagonist</---B>) talk about his life in America, I followed him on all the various issues he tackles in the book. Be it his social identity, his professional acceptance, America's fair treatment to him and his achievements. But as I finished the book, my thoughts forked out to this incident. I don't know what happened to the boy in the plane. How accurate were the accusations? Did he or why did he join a camp and many questions that went through my mind. Many that would remain unanswered. I did wish Mohsin Hamid had ended the book on a definite note, but then that would have made it more fictional than real in account. This extremely fluid, unapologetic, frank, point of view had me hooked from page 1. Changez a young muslim, confident, achiever, confused, looking for acceptance, searching for identity, guilty of abandoning family, trying to define his patriotism, enjoying the fruits of his labor - all his layers come through with such clarity. I really enjoyed the narrative style. It flowed naturally. It felt like you were right there listening in on an actual conversation. Mohsin Hamid has not held back Changez's thoughts to be politically correct, or tried to portray Changez as a victim. <+++>The Reluctant Fundamentalist</+++> is an honest, at times appealing and at times disconcerting, account of a man's internal thoughts, who knows that he may be a few feet away from death and has nothing to lose by telling all. For more reviews, go to http://ireadokay.blogspot.com ...more I've been trying to read some good Pakistani writing in English for a while now. And I'm glad I made an introduction with Mohsin Hamid's <+++>The Reluctant Fundamentalist</+++>, who earlier wrote Moth Smoke, a novel, which Rahul Bose is now adapting into a film. Lately, there has been a flowering of young Pakistani writers like Hamid and Kamila Shamsie (Cartography, Salt And Saffron), and in many ways, this is the first literary stirring that the country is witnessing. The Reluctant Fundamentalist looks at t I've been trying to read some good Pakistani writing in English for a while now. And I'm glad I made an introduction with Mohsin Hamid's The Reluctant Fundamentalist, who earlier wrote Moth Smoke, a novel, which Rahul Bose is now adapting into a film. Lately, there has been a flowering of young Pakistani writers like Hamid and Kamila Shamsie (Cartography, Salt And Saffron), and in many ways, this is the first literary stirring that the country is witnessing. The Reluctant Fundamentalist looks at the increasingly volatile and precariously balanced relationship between the West (United States) and East (South Asian Muslim countries), and how without a certain sense empathy, this equation will steadily spiral downwards. Interestingly, Hamid\u2019s point here is that a feeling of fundamentalism can arise in the unlikeliest of people, when they feel pushed to a corner. The novel\u2019s protagonist, Changez is a Princeton graduate, has led a charmed life back in Pakistan and is all set for a enviable career in New York. He bags a job with one of the premium companies of the city, Underwood Samson and in a short while, is recogonised as one of the firm\u2019s brightest young talents. If he thought life couldn't get better, he\u2019s proved wrong. Soon enough, he falls in love with Erica, a rich, pretty and artistically inclined American girl. But this relationship is fraught with troubles. Though there is a great deal of affection and even curiosity between Changez and Erica about their respective backgrounds, theirs remains a largely unfulfilling bond. Erica cannot get over Chris, her boyfriend who died some years back and thereby, can never fully 'open up' (sexually too) with Changez. In a moment of frustration and even resentment, the latter asks her to imagine him as Chris and make love. This is when you realize that Hamid\u2019s constructed an allegory here. Erica stands for America (Erica), and symbolises the deep infactuation Changez feels for her on certain levels. His own company is called Underwood Sampsons, standing for US, a highly competitive firm with a narrow focus on its own progress. Erica's inability to accept Changez, unless he 'becomes' Chris, quite clearly, hints at the country's unwillingness to accept the former\u2019s identity for what it primarily is. Till this point, Changez largely shares a love-hate equation with the US. He loves being a New Yorker, both his high-flying job and girlfriend fill his heart with a sense of pride. However, at the same time, Hamid's protagonist is no pushover. Clearly, Changez has a mind of his own and feels a deep sense of attachment to his motherland (Pakistan). The fact that bright minds like him have to desert their own country, to fill the coffers of an already overdeveloped, supercilious country, leaves him frustrated. This realisation further dawns upon him when 9/11 occurs and Changez feels a strange sense of thrill at 'someone bringing America to its knees'. From there on, life is never the same and his disenchantment with America is complete. Erica is afflicted with a mental illness and slowly fades away (literally) from his life. This is a period when Changez also develops a certain rebellious streak, refusing to either cut off his beard or focus on his job. News of America's attacks on Afghanistan, Pakistan's closest neighbour fills his heart with resentment and from there on, it's only a matter of time before he loses his job. Once back in Pakistan, Changez becomes a professor at a University, 'who makes it his mission on the campus to advocate Pakistan's disengagement with America' Though the book does not, in any way, glorify fundamentalism, it subtly points at how sparks of fundamentalism can be ignited in the most placid looking people and circumstances. Hamid succeeds in making his central character-Changez engaging from the word go and it helps that this book is a rather compact, slim one, without too much rambling. But, while Hamid's attempt at constructing an allegorical narrative is interesting, it is hardly intrusive enough to lend the story any kind of depth. If anything, it slackens its dramatic pace, making it both tedious and essayist. On the other hand, Changez's professional life has been treated with great flair and understanding. There are great stories to be written on the increasing east-west gulf and the growing feelings of mistrust between both continents. The Reluctant Fundamentalist only skims the surface, but nevertheless Hamid does enough to prove that he's a writer to watch out for. ...more A real bowl of literary prawn crackers - you eat and eat and they taste of nothing, they're entirely synthetic, like a form of extruded plastic, but you can't stop and then you realise the whole bowl is gone and what was that all about? This is not a good book and yet it was compelling, I can't deny it, a smooth, snaky insinuating monologue which in retrospect and often in real-time spect is a ridiculous tissue of allegory, you've seen all this in other reviews but it's all horribly true - our r A real bowl of literary prawn crackers - you eat and eat and they taste of nothing, they're entirely synthetic, like a form of extruded plastic, but you can't stop and then you realise the whole bowl is gone and what was that all about? This is not a good book and yet it was compelling, I can't deny it, a smooth, snaky insinuating monologue which in retrospect and often in real-time spect is a ridiculous tissue of allegory, you've seen all this in other reviews but it's all horribly true - our reluctant hero's name is Changez - that's right Ch-ch-ch-changez to you! and his svelte not-quite-attainable lurve is (Am) Erica I hope Mohsin Hamid wakes up in hot sweats in the middle of the night thinking Oh God, how could I have done that! The fundamentalism of the title is from the business slogan of the arbitrage company he works for in New York, \"focus on the fundamentals\" - that's the fundamentalism he's reluctant about. Okay, nice joke. That said, a lot of the reviews of this book would have you believe it's an apology for al Qaeda - no, it's not, Changez is an extraordinarily secular Muslim - I think the M word is used once only in the whole book, and nowhere does he speak of Islam. The opposition to America which is eventually accepted and embodied by our troubled young man is entirely political - he does give a faint but pertinent impression of America as the lover who kills you or as the murderer who loves you. But oh dear, this kind of thing is not good : \"I had always resented the manner in which America conducted itself in the world; your country's constant interference in the affairs of others was insufferable. Vietnam, Korea, the straits of Taiwan ...\" I thought there was so much more to be said about how the East wants what the West has got without wanting to be colonised and disembowelled by the West, and how America is the very embodiment of guilty pleasure, and how this love hate thing is like to drive entire countryfuls of young men raving mad, given the repressive anti-sex poverty-stricken societies they come from, and how this explains a whole lot, but Hamsid's touch was so light you could almost have mistaken it for shallowness. Two and a half. ...more This is a lovely, short, very easy-to-read post 9/11 book. The structure of this is tale is Changez telling his personal story to a burly American visitor (probably a spook of some sort) to his country, in his function as a guide to Pakistan. The tone was very reminiscent of Rudyard Kipling, at least as far as I recall from my reading of Kipling many years back. Think The Man Who Would Be King. This makes sense given the subject matter of the book, colonialism versus the third world. Changez, bo This is a lovely, short, very easy-to-read post 9/11 book. The structure of this is tale is Changez telling his personal story to a burly American visitor (probably a spook of some sort) to his country, in his function as a guide to Pakistan. The tone was very reminiscent of Rudyard Kipling, at least as far as I recall from my reading of Kipling many years back. Think The Man Who Would Be King. This makes sense given the subject matter of the book, colonialism versus the third world. Changez, born to fading gentry in Pakistan, has attended Princeton on scholarship, gotten a lucrative job with a top tier financial company, and is in love with beautiful, blond upper-class Yank. Life is good. But when 9/11 happens he discovers that he feels some satisfaction in the great giant being taken down a notch. In the newly paranoid USA, his background marks him as a threat to many and life changes. Essentially what we have here is a foreigner (Changez) falling in love with America (get it? amERICA), but his amERICA is too damaged by the premature loss of her boyfriend to cancer at age 22 (Read Vietnam or whatever other fall one might choose) to cope. The result of this is that amERICA suffers from extreme nostalgia and becomes incapable of truly embracing Changez (subtle). Erica\u2019s father irks him with presumptions about corruption in Pakistan. He sees a \u201ctypically American undercurrent of condescension\u201d (p 55) American indifference to third world concerns is noted repeatedly here. It is no secret that the USA is notoriously unempathetic to the concerns of others since the Marshall Plan. Fundamentals here are the tools taught him in his finance career (efficiency). Fundamentals are implied for other things, knowing who you are, what your place is in the world. There are, surprisingly, no overt connections made to religious fundamentalism. Presumably one of the author\u2019s points is that the values held high in the west (efficiency uber alles) are just as unfeeling and extreme as those of the religious nuts. I did not take this as a personal tale. It is a metaphoric one. I mean the main character has but a single name, Changez. For that alone, how could the book be anything other than metaphorical? So I was not troubled by the contradictions in the character. For example, Changez feels an affinity with the jeepney driver in the Philippines, yet the choices he makes are all to strive within the western world. He manages to get a scholarship to attend Princeton, but feels it necessary to hide his relative poverty. What? Are there no other scholarship kids at Princeton? He is elitist in his orientation, wanting to hang with the rich kids, wanting to work for the heavy hitter financial company, even after it becomes clear to him that the work will cost people their livelihoods, wanting to be with the crazy girl when it is clear that she is over the edge. It is not America that rejects the foreigner here, but the foreigner who rejects America. So it is not a personal tale. It is a metaphoric one. It would have been better had the walking symbols here been made more reasonable, had their desires and impulses been a little more grounded in flesh and blood reality. You\u2019re not a better man than I am, Gunga Din. ============================= EXTRA STUFF Hamid's personal , FB , twitter pages ...more Nine Reasons To Read This One: Because it\u2019s short, yet evocative: a relief at a time when authors needlessly pile on the pages. Because it\u2019s hard enough to sustain a distinctive voice for a dramatic monologue in a poem (ask Robert Browning), leave alone an entire novel. Because the voice is just right \u2013 formal without being sombre; precise without being stiff. Because, unlike in John Updike\u2019s Terrorist, you can empathise with and understand Changez, the fundamentalist. Because of the delicious ironie Nine Reasons To Read This One: Because it\u2019s short, yet evocative: a relief at a time when authors needlessly pile on the pages. Because it\u2019s hard enough to sustain a distinctive voice for a dramatic monologue in a poem (ask Robert Browning), leave alone an entire novel. Because the voice is just right \u2013 formal without being sombre; precise without being stiff. Because, unlike in John Updike\u2019s Terrorist, you can empathise with and understand Changez, the fundamentalist. Because of the delicious ironies, among them the fact that Changez works in a US firm that evaluates companies ripe for takeover; virtually the first piece of advice he receives is to stick to the fundamentals. Because Changez\u2019s disillusionment comes about in a nuanced, progressive manner and as such is completely believable. Because there\u2019s ample evidence of the author\u2019s craft, especially in Changez\u2019s many responses and descriptions while narrating his tale in a Lahore bazaar. Because yet another example of such craft is that Changez\u2019s ill-fated relationship with the USA is matched by his ill-fated relationship with Erica \u2013 without being heavy-handed about it. Because in less than 200 pages, Hamid creates both a compelling protagonist and a compelling argument. ...more An Open Letter to America which unfortunately I read late, around 5 years late. Why unfortunate? B\u2019coz I might have liked it or probably loved it since I was a naive reader back then i.e I was into Sheldons and Archers and closer home Bhagats *blushes*. Anyway, I was well aware when this book hit the literary world and took it by storm. A dashing title, a Pakistani author, a reluctant subject, a movie in the making by Mira Nair and that\u2019s precisely the reason I wanted to read the book before watc An Open Letter to America which unfortunately I read late, around 5 years late. Why unfortunate? B\u2019coz I might have liked it or probably loved it since I was a naive reader back then i.e I was into Sheldons and Archers and closer home Bhagats *blushes*. Anyway, I was well aware when this book hit the literary world and took it by storm. A dashing title, a Pakistani author, a reluctant subject, a movie in the making by Mira Nair and that\u2019s precisely the reason I wanted to read the book before watching the movie , so bought a copy and was yayyyy...finally! Great read it\u2019s gonna be!! 1st page: ok. 2nd page: yeah okk. 3rd page: Ahan! I know where you are heading. 50th page: err..no, I don\u2019t know where you are heading, but I sense a twist just around the corner. 100th page: A love story..,girl\u2019s lover dead...can\u2019t forget him...a clinic...I once had a girl...Norwegian wood\u2026Yes! Yes!...No! OK. 183rd page: just few more lines and then contact Agent J a.k.a. Will Smith and request for the memory eraser toy and move on to your next Murakami read. And Nooo!! (Kindly excuse the superlatives) I didn\u2019t hate this book but hated the fact as to why I wasn\u2019t able to appreciate it in any way possible. It made me uncomfortable throughout rather than excited and the most irritating part is that you are compelled to read it till the end in the hope of getting hold of the whole idea behind this book. At the end, the author hurled a very smart curve ball towards his readers, leaving most of us in dilemmas, some on the side of Changez (the protagonist), some on the side of Mr. America (envying that delectable Lahori food he had) and some wishing to watch the re-run of 2011 epic cricket world cup semi-final between India and Pakistan and marveling at its brilliance and that moment when..Aargh! I never knew writing the review would be a similar experience like that of reading this book..distracting!! This is the second book I read by a Pakistani author, first being My Feudal Lord by Tehmina Durrani, which I judged on the basis of its subject and not on writing style and since I read it around 6 years ago, all I could recall was that it was simple but affected me enough to evoke emotions of empathy which might not hold true at present having read many great books and becoming more aware and objective about the world around me since then so it might not feature in the league of extra ordinary but it definitely left an impression which reluctant fundamentalist, as I highly doubt would be able to achieve. As the story was unfolding it became, hardly audible and incredibly distant. And the writing style!! I wish the narration was in one to one style as it started bothering me after few chapters, may be the execution was unconvincing or plain dull *oxymoron*. This book has some great ideas but somehow fell short of the elements that would have made it a great page turner. It felt too safe and too confined for my taste. Islamic Fundamentalism is a sensitive subject and needs to be handled carefully without actually conveying any negative message or an ambiguous one but what Mohsin Hamid as seemed, resisted from going out of his comfort zone and stating everything at a superficial level without actually diving deep. The only thing I found acceptable was his realization of being victimized or prone to victimization because \u201cI am a Muslim\u201d, but like I stated that I read it a bit late so in today\u2019s time this has become a bit redundant and again not helping in scoring brownie points for Mr. Hamid. Those stars are simply because as a writer he definitely has potential provided he let himself go of all the inhibitions if he\u2019s having any, from his literary genes. ...more In one sustained monologue, a young Pakistani named Changez relates his life story to an unidentified American man in a cafe in the city of Lahore. Changez, a Princeton graduate who once worked as an analyst for a Manhattan financial firm, tells us how his optimistic view of America began to darken in the aftermath of 9/11. I liked this book for its elegant style and outsider's viewpoint, but my favorite part of it is the mysterious relationship between the narrator and his American listener. Te In one sustained monologue, a young Pakistani named Changez relates his life story to an unidentified American man in a cafe in the city of Lahore. Changez, a Princeton graduate who once worked as an analyst for a Manhattan financial firm, tells us how his optimistic view of America began to darken in the aftermath of 9/11. I liked this book for its elegant style and outsider's viewpoint, but my favorite part of it is the mysterious relationship between the narrator and his American listener. Tension and threat bubble beneath the novel's polite surface, and the possible explanations for that tension keep the reader guessing and give the novel power and depth. ...more An eerie, quietly powerful story. The structure is simple enough--- a monologue. A cafe in Lahore, and a young Pakistani is explaining to a silent American how he came to be an enemy of America. There's menace there--- something is about to happen, and soon. You're not told why the American is there, or what he does, or quite why young Changez is telling him these things. But there it is. This voice--- educated, articulate, tinged with hostility and faux-bonhomie and self-pity ---speaking into t An eerie, quietly powerful story. The structure is simple enough--- a monologue. A cafe in Lahore, and a young Pakistani is explaining to a silent American how he came to be an enemy of America. There's menace there--- something is about to happen, and soon. You're not told why the American is there, or what he does, or quite why young Changez is telling him these things. But there it is. This voice--- educated, articulate, tinged with hostility and faux-bonhomie and self-pity ---speaking into the dusk, ordering more tea, and...waiting. There are reviewers at GoodReads who just didn't get the narrator, who just disliked him out of hand. After all, they said--- full scholarship to Princeton, near-six-figure Wall Street job at 22, beautiful American girlfriend: how dare he dislike America? I just kept reading and thinking about Dostoyevsky's \"Devils\" or Conrad's \"Under Western Eyes\". Changez would be...exactly...the sort to end up a terrorist of some kind. From a family with old name and status but no money. Educated someplace where you're almost never aware of being different, where suddenly money is an issue, where status and formalized deference don't soften the edges of not having money. A job with travel to places where you're aware of being American in the eyes of locals, but being a mere foreigner to American customs officials. Being smitten with a beautiful, gentle Upper East Side girl who slips away from you. Changez turns on the TV in a Manila hotel suite and sees the Towers burning on 11 September 2001 and finds himself suddenly, unexpectedly...smiling. However not? You can see Changez being as surprised as any of his American employers and friends at just how much resentment is there. Just the sort of person who could be recruited, who'd find himself seeking out places where he could open up his anger. There's no grand political justification here, no sudden acceptance of Islam or jihad. Changez is secular, and his disdain for Americans isn't religious as much it is based on tribe and class and a sense of falling between identities. Mohsin Hamid gives his narrator a disturbing and quiet sense of slowly growing bitterness and isolation, as well as a slowly growing desperation about finding an identity. I am a Kurtz , he tells his nameless American listener, waiting for my Marlowe. \"The Reluctant Fundamentalist\" is an unexpected find, and a story with a whole cast of ghosts and ideas happening just behind the main narrative. Very much worth reading, and a book where you'll be uncovering layers in Changez's monologue for a long time. ...more It is now 2013, and no doubt many Pakistanis like our titular narrator have reason to be suspicious of America, perhaps over secret agreements and drone strikes. I will not deny that, nor claim they are unjustified. But this book is written and set much earlier, in the reign of Bush II, where bile flowed more freely and anti-Americanism was more open everywhere. The Reluctant Fundamentalist is trying to be a political allegory yet also a complex psychological piece, yet it accomplishes neither. It is now 2013, and no doubt many Pakistanis like our titular narrator have reason to be suspicious of America, perhaps over secret agreements and drone strikes. I will not deny that, nor claim they are unjustified. But this book is written and set much earlier, in the reign of Bush II, where bile flowed more freely and anti-Americanism was more open everywhere. The Reluctant Fundamentalist is trying to be a political allegory yet also a complex psychological piece, yet it accomplishes neither. Most of the characters are flat and pallid stereotypes. See the unattainable cliche, the firm fit model 'Am-Erica', a blonde Madonna for the narrator to lust over, and her dead lingering boyfriend 'Chris-tian'. The narrator's own name might be too easy to pin as cliche. 'Changez', of course, resembles 'Changes' in English, but it is actually the name of the bloody 'Genghis' in Urdu - a strange name for a Pakistani. The plot is only a string of circumstances, which our allegory is knotted on to. A young boy goes to Princeton and Wall Street, he is changed forever, he hates his new successful life and himself. Allows himself a smile on 9/11. So on and so on. However, there is one element which impressed me, much so than all the rest combined. I'm not sure who else has reached this interpretation. It concerns the narrator, his own ugly little mind, and how he seeks to change the world to that image he creates. What sort of person does it take to be a fundamentalist, or some other such extremist belief? An outsider, a pariah, someone who has never part of a cohesive nation to begin with. It is this pariah who dreams up an image of what a Real better life is really like, dreaming of rebelling or crushing all enemies, real or imagined. History and memory are a builder's putty to them, as they marry their delusions and abandon their ugly reality. See the poor Austrian peasant, Hitler-nee-Schicklgruber, who dreamed of a greater Germanic knightly glory. See the Georgian peasant, Stalin-nee-Dzhugashvilli, who harnessed socialism to a greater Russian nationalism for his dreams of mechanizing the Soviet people. And so on. See the mentally deformed persons who slouch into White Pride meetings today in America for further examples. There are, of course, those who join terror for personal reasons, against occupying powers. But is this the case for our Changez? It is this type of person that the author most convincingly portrays. Our narrator smiles, offers you (yes, You, another dreadful second-person McInerney bit) some lovely Pakistani sweets and tea, sits in a charming part of Lahore, and engages in a long dictatorial monologue about the past, what events have shaped him into who he is, and what he plans to do. What moral high ground does he have? Not much. He speaks idealism about America's power bestriding the globe, but then lapses into Cold War Realpolitik about Indo-Pakistani relations and nuclear weapons. He drinks beer and lusts like the rest. This book disappointed me. It wanted to look complex issues about nations, colonies, and religion in the eye, but instead blurred them further. I instead found the narrator's rotten mind more interesting. All of the tempting ideas previously outlined are only superficially treated. Perhaps I'm trying to pick up sugary crumbs from the ashes. ...more \u201cWhen my turn came, I said I hoped one day to be the dictator of an Islamic republic with nuclear capability; the others appeared shocked, and I was forced to explain that I had been joking.\u201d It explores, but only manages to scratch the surface, the question of religious fundamentalist amongst contemporary Muslim youth. No, it doesn't explore it, but makes a joke out of it, through an artificially constructed dilemma of one Changez, a Pakistani expat in the United States, who has turned to \"fund \u201cWhen my turn came, I said I hoped one day to be the dictator of an Islamic republic with nuclear capability; the others appeared shocked, and I was forced to explain that I had been joking.\u201d It explores, but only manages to scratch the surface, the question of religious fundamentalist amongst contemporary Muslim youth. No, it doesn't explore it, but makes a joke out of it, through an artificially constructed dilemma of one Changez, a Pakistani expat in the United States, who has turned to \"fundamentalism\" after the history-making day of nine-eleven. Location: Lahore, the famous Food Street in Old city. The Reluctant Fundamentalist dines with an anonymous person about whom the only information we get is his nationality: he's an American man. How and why he's here we don't get to find out. The American seems like a phantasmal installation - a dummy of sorts - to lend our Reluctant Fundamentalist an ear. The narrative is almost entirely made up of a monologue; the reader is not allowed to hear the reactions of the American stranger. Changez speaks continuously as he recounts his experiences of student life in the US. Through this unimpressive frame story, as though a flippant Conrad gone berserk, we enter the main story. Changez has a common migrant story. He goes to study at Princeton (yes it is always Princeton or Harvard or Oxford or Cambridge - it seems fictional characters don't go to medium-tier universities but that's a non-sequitur!), lands in a lucrative finance job (again, it's either finance and engineering or taxis and toilets, but that's a non-sequitur too!); he's doing well in every way but loses his intellectual and emotional moorings when the planes strike the Twin Towers on that fateful, ridiculous morning. The ensuing American invasions unhinge Changez. He begins to doubt himself (he just starts doubting, without going through a process of introspection which, included, would have lent some credibility to the narrative), his loyalties change, his outlook on life undergoes a drastic no-angled turn, and he finds himself questioning his life in the United States. This break is symbolically represented by Changez's relationship with an American girl 'Erica', who is actually 'America' - once his beloved, now an undesired castaway. They have one good sex, a mutual orgasm, and then they go separate ways. It is not so much a tale of a truly reluctant fundamentalist than a person torn between what he sees as two mutually exclusive sets of loyalties. Changez suffers from an identity crisis and religious fundamentalism only makes up a silly excuse. There's nothing in his new outlook that confirms his born-again religiosity. He drinks, gambles, fornicates with his girlfriend, and doesn\u2019t seem to have a moral issue with his lifestyle as one might expect of an Islamic fundamentalist who rejects liberal lifestyles. His opposition to American warmongering is political not religious. He talks about \u201cour Asia\u201d instead of \u201cour Ummah\u201d or the global Muslim community. This gives us room for interpretation but we do get the message don't we... All in all, it's a fast read, enjoyable for its humour, but nothing much apart from that, and it doesn't require of you to think much before you have finished reading the slender novella. Mohsin Hamid wrote it before 9/11 but when it happened, edited it to make it relevant, sold millions of copies and hurray, made a fortune! But if a work of fiction depends so much on day-to-day history, it simply means that it's destined to last as long as the hype lasts. April 2015 ...more Sjajan... neobican... ima ono \"nesto\" specificno za autore poreklom iz Indije i Pakistana... sjednom finom notom humora meni veoma dragog... Prava je kupio jedan srpski izdavac, ali je zapao u teskoce i knjiga verovatno nece skoro biti objavljena na srpskom... Za sve one kojima se dopala knjiga Pitanja i odgovori Vikasa Svarupa (Laguna) ili Beli tigar (IPS) Wow. This is everything I want in a novel. Engaging and somewhat experimental narration and challenging politics. I plan to make a discussion video about this book, so I'll save a lot of my thoughts, but let me say that this was brilliant. The second-person narration is extremely powerful, as it confronts \"you\"\u2014the implied American (or Western) reader\u2014and implicates you directly in the events that have taken place in the novel and as complicit with the politics that shaped the landscape that prod Wow. This is everything I want in a novel. Engaging and somewhat experimental narration and challenging politics. I plan to make a discussion video about this book, so I'll save a lot of my thoughts, but let me say that this was brilliant. The second-person narration is extremely powerful, as it confronts \"you\"\u2014the implied American (or Western) reader\u2014and implicates you directly in the events that have taken place in the novel and as complicit with the politics that shaped the landscape that produced it. It is a post-9/11 novel, fascinating because the second-person narrative, a conversation between a Pakistani man, Changez, and an unnamed American, is entirely one-sided; the American character speaks, but we don't have access to his words. Everything is mediated through Changez, the entire story is told through his perspective, and the American voice is ostensibly erased, especially interesting considering the discourse in post-9/11 society that has attempted to erase any dissenting voice. Finally, the ending, so ambiguous and heavy with discomfort, is so challenging and so productive. This was a brilliant reading experience for me. I can't wait to talk more about it. \"As a society, you were unwilling to reflect upon the shared pain that united you with those who attacked you. You retreated into myths of your own difference, assumptions of your own superiority. And you acted out these beliefs on the stage of the world, so that the entire planet was rocked by the repercussions of your tantrums, not least my family, now facing war thousands of miles away. Such an America had to be stopped in the interests not only of the rest of humanity, but also in your own.\" ...more Supremely interesting and well told, but I'll have to think a lot more about the ending. Still, I'm very glad I read it. Excuse me, sir, but may I be of assistance? Ah, I see I have alarmed you. Do not be frightened by my beard: I am a lover of America. I noticed that you were looking for something; more than looking, in fact you seemed to be on a mission, and since I am both a native of this city and a speaker of your language, I thought I might offer you my services. So begins the The Reluctant Fundamentalist by Mohsin Hamid; a great opening paragraph which catches your eye and which in fact made me purchase this Excuse me, sir, but may I be of assistance? Ah, I see I have alarmed you. Do not be frightened by my beard: I am a lover of America. I noticed that you were looking for something; more than looking, in fact you seemed to be on a mission, and since I am both a native of this city and a speaker of your language, I thought I might offer you my services. So begins the The Reluctant Fundamentalist by Mohsin Hamid; a great opening paragraph which catches your eye and which in fact made me purchase this book. (Advice to all wannabe writers, including myself: write a great opening line. This is what sells books.) Unfortunately, what follows hardly measures up. In fact, Mr. Hamid lets the reader down with such a great thud that I am surprised there are no bruises to show for it! The setting and style of the novel is \u2013 well \u2013 novel. An unidentified American has entered the district of Old Anarkali in Lahore. He is approached by Changez, the narrator and protagonist, with the above quoted line, and guided to a tea shop the \u201cquality of whose tea is unparalleled\u201d. There, he unburdens his heart to his apprehensive guest. He is a Princeton graduate, and has spent four-and-a-half years in America. The reason why he has come back to Pakistan is the subject of the story. Changez narrates his tale to his invisible (in literary terms!) guest, and we listen. We can imagine ourselves in the place of the American, or as an eavesdropper on their conversation. Throughout the narration, the listener\u2019s reactions are remarked upon by the teller; which is all we get to see of him. This shadow listener, in facts, works well as a literary device and also serves to enhance a feeling of creeping menace slowly slipping into the barmy Lahore evening. Well, in my opinion, the positives end there. Changez is explaining why he became disillusioned with America and became the \u201creluctant fundamentalist\u201d of the title: however, his story doesn\u2019t hold water. He is the blue-eyed boy from Princeton, top-ranked among his young fellow executives in the valuation firm of Underwood Samson and the personal favourite of his mentor Jim. He is in love with Erica, a beautiful American girl. He is slated to go far in his profession. The good ol\u2019 American (expat) dream\u2026 Well, with 9/11, his world comes crashing down\u2026 \u2026now, if you are waiting for the story of the poor Muslim boy persecuted by Big Bad Uncle Sam, well, think again. Nothing of the sort happens. Our hero is in Manila on a mission when the Twin Towers are brought down. He watches it on TV and says \u201cmy initial reaction was to be remarkably pleased\u201d because \u201csomeone had so visibly brought America to her knees\u201d! Well, as a reader, I lost whatever sympathy I had with Changez then and there. I mean, here\u2019s a guy who has studied in America, is working in America, planning to marry an American girl and settle down in America \u2013 and he\u2019s pleased at a wanton act of terrorism on America? He is not a reluctant fundamentalist but a closet terrorist! As the story moves on, there are no instances of any discrimination against Changez, other than an airport search and a threatening encounter with a semi-crazed man in a car park. However, his sense of alienation grows and he starts considering himself as an outsider. But what really distresses Changez is not the status of Muslims in America post-9/11. It is the slow slide into madness of his love Erica, and the perceived threat to Pakistan from India. Erica is a girl who lives partially in her mind with her long-dead boyfriend Chris. She is so disturbed that she can have sex with Changez only by imagining him to be Chris. Although initially she encourages him, she slowly moves away from Changez into an institution; then moves away from life totally, disappearing without a trace. This tale of Erica is Norwegian Wood with all the magic removed \u2013 a pastiche. We should be feeling for our poor protagonist, but I was only feeling bored. The second reason for Changez\u2019s self-destruction, the perceived war with India, is even sillier. This is the period after the attacks on the Indian Parliament in December 2001 by Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaishe-e-Mohammed activists which lead to massing of troops by both countries at the border. Changez\u2019s latent patriotism comes to fore and he flies to Pakistan against the better counsel of his parents. The thing is, while we can understand his need to flaunt his Pakistani-ness, and his displeasure with India, his anger against America is ludicrous. He becomes disillusioned with America for remaining neutral and not chastising India! Whatever the case, from here onwards Changez self-destucts. He is sent on an important mission to Chile by Jim as a chance to rejuvenate his career, disregarding opposition from the company vice-president who accompanies him. However, Changez does such a shoddy job on purpose and refuses to continue so that the company has no option other than to fire him. The ostensible reason for this change is his realization that he is the modern-day equivalent of a Janissary (Christian youths stolen away by Turks at the time of the Ottoman Empire and used as warriors), fighting for the evil American empire. The reason I can see is that the guy is seriously screwed up. By now, we have reached the last twenty pages or so, and we see Changez racing into his fundamentalist career with gusto (although specifics, other than a speech, are missing). The narrative then suddenly slides into an ambiguous ending which is left open for reader interpretation. It all depends on whether we accept Changez as a reliable or unreliable narrator. Obviously, it is meant to be explosive \u2013 but to me, it felt like a damp squib. I couldn\u2019t care less. Tailpiece: In the West today (in India, too) Islamophobia is a serious concern. Singling out of Muslims as potential terrorists everywhere has done untold harm to religious harmony, and has resulted in many moderate Muslims embracing hardcore concepts. Many of them are reluctant fundamentalists \u2013 Mohsin Hamid has tackled a real problem. Unfortunately, Changez cannot represent them. The review is up on my BLOG also. ...more The story is told in first person as if the narrator is talking to you (he addresses you 'sir') directly. It took me awhile to get used to it because Hamid did not introduce his characters first before starting this narrative. The plot is simple: Changez is a Pakistani young man who has finished his degree at Princeton, lands a good paying job at Underwood Samson and is having an affair with Erica who seems to be his ticket to full entry to Manhattan's powerful and rich circles. However, 9/11 ha The story is told in first person as if the narrator is talking to you (he addresses you 'sir') directly. It took me awhile to get used to it because Hamid did not introduce his characters first before starting this narrative. The plot is simple: Changez is a Pakistani young man who has finished his degree at Princeton, lands a good paying job at Underwood Samson and is having an affair with Erica who seems to be his ticket to full entry to Manhattan's powerful and rich circles. However, 9/11 happens and due to American wrath, the Muslims are discriminated and Changez has to go back to Pakistan where people hate Americans. I think I expected too much from the many 4 and 5 stars that my friends here on Goodreads have given to this book so when I started this I was ready to be amazed. Sadly, that moment did not come and at times I was bored especially with the love story of Changez and Erica with the latter still in-love with her dead boyfriend Chris. It's corny, predictable and cheapens the impact of supposedly a powerful message of racial discrimination in the light of global terrorism. An example of this is when Erica can't make love to Changez so the poor man has to say \"Pretend I am him.\" Did Hamid just want to lighten the story to give it a commercial value? I mean, the love story of Jack and Rose provided the sample of two lovers' personal tragedy amidst the bigger tragedy of the sinking Titanic but I cannot say the same of Changez and Erica as their drama is totally mawkish and their characters, caricaturist. I was able to relate with some scenes in the book like when I go to the US, the airport security always asks me to line up in the non-American queue because I show them a non-American driver's license. Then in that queue, they frisk the people thoroughly even after passing through that enclosed x-ray that looks like a big closet full of blowing air. I know that it is the prerogative of the U.S. government but it just felt distressing and inconvenient as if you are a terrorist planning to blow up the airport when you are there only for a business trip and you worry about your presentation to the big bosses in the US (on your way there) or how you will make happen the many projects that they have told you to do (as you go back home). This is an okay book. Not blown away as I was expecting (Emir, because of your five stars) but I did not dislike it. Easy to read dramatic monologue but rubbed me the wrong way or maybe failed to rub on me at all. ...more I loved Moth Smoke but Hamid falls woefully short of the poetry and inventiveness of his first novel in this hackneyed, boring and utterly forgettable novelette that fails both as a polemical rant against american foreign policy (Rage Against The Machine does a better job and is more believable) and on a more basic human level as a love story. Changez is a pakistani man with western yearnings and trappings, educated at Princeton, and employed by a top american valuation firm when 9/11 occurs. Th I loved Moth Smoke but Hamid falls woefully short of the poetry and inventiveness of his first novel in this hackneyed, boring and utterly forgettable novelette that fails both as a polemical rant against american foreign policy (Rage Against The Machine does a better job and is more believable) and on a more basic human level as a love story. Changez is a pakistani man with western yearnings and trappings, educated at Princeton, and employed by a top american valuation firm when 9/11 occurs. The events immediately following 9/11 coupled with his doomed relationship with a depressive and suicidal american girl (oh, the humanity!) spark a crisis of faith in the system he is a part of and in the way American foreign policy runs roughshod over the rest of the world (Boo-fuckin-hoo, cry me a river, etc etc) causing him to give up his western life style, sport a beard in protest regardless of the \"looks\" he might get walking down the streets of manhattan, and, later on to become a professor in a Pakistani university spewing prosaic anti-american rhetoric. In other words a TRUE revolutionary. The interests of Hamid's much denounced muslim nation (he identifies with Afghanistan as much as he does with Pakistan) would be much better served had he produced a more self critical novel that would cause the average pakistani or generic third world muslim to introspect and self reflect about why they are such non-entities on the world stage (other than BLAME AMERICA FIRST) and perhaps suggest some way they might be able to pull themselves up by the bootstrap and get out from under the heel of the IMF, the World Bank and the instruments of America's considerable military might. This novel perfectly symbolizes the disease the muslim world suffers from; it's symptoms are apparent in the mindless violence/terrorism we see ever so often erupting from these cultural backwaters but its root cause lies in denial, lack of introspection and refusal to take responsibility for \"our\" condition. In the end Changez has only himself to blame for his downfall, just like the muslims he identifies with. ...more Mohsin Hamid also wrote \"Moth Smoke,\" and that brought me to this book--the flashy title could have been ignored. At first, the way he wrote it seemed charming but quickly turned annoying. The story is about a young Pakistani guy who comes to America, goes to Yale, and earns his way to a highly competitive job as a financial analyst. He is in love with an annoying girl. He assimilates and loves his life in America but his outlook changes after September 11. Unfortunately, Hamid doesn't really ta Mohsin Hamid also wrote \"Moth Smoke,\" and that brought me to this book--the flashy title could have been ignored. At first, the way he wrote it seemed charming but quickly turned annoying. The story is about a young Pakistani guy who comes to America, goes to Yale, and earns his way to a highly competitive job as a financial analyst. He is in love with an annoying girl. He assimilates and loves his life in America but his outlook changes after September 11. Unfortunately, Hamid doesn't really take care of that transition very well. He leaves it hanging in places. The book hurtles forward giving you the expectation that it will explain how the main character's trajectory changes, but it doesn't give much. While Hamid describes the book as a love story, he makes just enough commentary on America's colonialist attitude (which he writes almost as prose--it's worth cutting out and gluing to...something for future...whatever) and the main character's transition that I can see neo-cons picking it up and renewing their conviction. In other words, he doesn't paint a complete picture--and I don't just mean that he says things I disagree with. It's the book's promise that makes it disappointing--and makes it inflate any previous frustration with assimilation, (how we define) fundamentalism, and colonialism. ...more The inability to let go of an idealized past is a recurring theme in Mohsin Hamid\u2019s The Reluctant Fundamentalist. Just in the same manner that America erroneously idealizes a pre-September Eleven Utopia in the United States, Erica idealizes her relationship with her deceased boyfriend Chris; likewise, just how America is unable to let go of the past by engaging in blind vengeful tactics against the Middle East, so is Erica unable to let go of her past relationship with Chris and so she recedes i The inability to let go of an idealized past is a recurring theme in Mohsin Hamid\u2019s The Reluctant Fundamentalist. Just in the same manner that America erroneously idealizes a pre-September Eleven Utopia in the United States, Erica idealizes her relationship with her deceased boyfriend Chris; likewise, just how America is unable to let go of the past by engaging in blind vengeful tactics against the Middle East, so is Erica unable to let go of her past relationship with Chris and so she recedes into insanity and an eventual unexplained disappearance from the planet. To further the continuance of the romantic motif of holding on to memories, Changez, too, suffers from the irrational inability to let go, for even after he returns to Pakistan he cannot form a new relationship because he cannot let go of Erica\u2019s memory. Erica is one of the most important characters in The Reluctant Fundamentalist because she is the corporeal representation of everything Changez dreams of in America. Erica is the typical wealthy and outgoing American girl, but she differs from other young women in her class in that she has suffered the tragedy of losing the love of her life to unconquerable and merciless Death. Though she displays more interest in Changez than any of the other young men with who she surrounds herself in her social circle, the stubborn adherence to old memories with her true but deceased love prevent her from moving on and accepting a healthy relationship with Changez. Changez asserts that, \u201cPerhaps theirs was a past all the more potent for its being imaginary. I did not know whether I believed in the truth of their love; it was, after all, a religion that would not accept me as a convert\u201d (114). Erica loved Chris to such extent that even so much time after his unfortunate death, she is still unable to exonerate herself of the deep wound this inflicted on her; consequently, she unable to allow Changez in her life. There is enough textual evidence to suggest that Mohsin Hamid probably created the character of Erica as an allegorical representation for America. America, too, is wealthy and outgoing in world affairs, and just like Erica, suffered a tragedy from which it does not yet seem to fully recover. \u201cIt seemed to me that America, too,\u201d Changez explains, \u201cwas increasingly giving itself over to a dangerous nostalgia at the time\u201d (115). Indeed, following the tragic events of September 11th, the people of the United States were also trapped in the country\u2019s own idealized version of its past and struggling with its own nostalgia, thus also unable to accept Changez as an American convert, to use the narrator\u2019s terms. The unfortunate chap suffers so much discrimination following the events of September 11, that following Erica\u2019s consistent rejections and her eventual disappearance, and Changez subsequent failure at Underwood Samson, he was left with no choice but to return to his country Pakistan. Even as he establishes himself as a professor in Pakistan, Changez will never be the same after having had known Erica and having had lived in America for approximately five years. He, too, has been afflicted by the nostalgia epidemic and seems to display no interest in moving on emotionally. \u201cMy brother married last April,\u201d says Changez, \u201cand my mother began to suggest\u2026 that I do the same; she believed I was in the grip of an unhealthy melancholy and that a family of my own was the surest way for me to rediscover satisfaction in my life\u201d (175). Though this is all sensible advice, Changez is really in the grip of the same type of nostalgia that caused Erica\u2019s and America\u2019s downfall: \u201cI had not told her about Erica, and I found it became progressively more difficult to contemplate doing so; our relationship could now thrive only in my head, and to discuss it with a mother intent\u2014on challenging it with reality might do it irreparable harm\u201d (176). What Chris was to Erica is what Erica has become to Changez\u2014a fantasy, a dream of an idealized past that can vanish when faced with the facts of reality. Changez, too, is afraid of letting go. ...more I think I would have enjoyed this book more had I not found Changez's character to be so predictable and hypocritical. He says \"I myself was a form of indentured servant whose right to remain (in the US) was dependent upon the continued benevolence of my employer.\" Lets see, he gets a free Ivy League education, which is annoying in itself as there are so many American students who fall short of his standards, and the few foreigners (at a US university) seem to be the only students appreciative o I think I would have enjoyed this book more had I not found Changez's character to be so predictable and hypocritical. He says \"I myself was a form of indentured servant whose right to remain (in the US) was dependent upon the continued benevolence of my employer.\" Lets see, he gets a free Ivy League education, which is annoying in itself as there are so many American students who fall short of his standards, and the few foreigners (at a US university) seem to be the only students appreciative of the education. He then lands an $80,000 per year job fresh from graduation and is whining about the US Visa program? Also interesting that he would describe Erica's father as speaking with a \"typically American undercurrent of condescension\" while doling out the same narrative, throughout the entire book, while speaking to his American acquaintance in Pakistan. I do think that this book is very accurate in its description of how one in Pakistan, and plenty of other countries, are likely to view America. Their society was amazing before the US was around and yet the US is somehow to blame for their own lack of progress in say the last thousand years or so. The spill from candle wax was no biggie in Pakistan but surely would have resulted in a huge lawsuit in the US. As if no American carries a scar that didn't lead to the blaming of a corporation and subsequent lawsuit. I wish that I didn't think that this novel is as spot on as I believe it to be but as long as societies fail and continue to blame the US rather than searching their own souls, I am left about as hopeful for peace as I was after reading Infidel. It is interesting that a character so apparently progressive and informed so quickly judges an entire society of people by the actions of a few or its foreign policy while taking no responsibility for the actions of his own people, his own government, or the select neighboring countries he views as friends. ...more I seem to be reading lots of books about immigrants lately. I've had this audiobook in my shelf to read for a while now. For some reason I decided to download it this weekend and couldn't stop listening until the end. I also think that writing a good review about The Reluctant Fundamentalist is way above my pay-grade, so I am going to use a few adjectives to describe the book and my reaction to it as best I can: About the book: Enigmatic,Candid, elegant, nuanced, relevant, thoughtful, bitter, powe I seem to be reading lots of books about immigrants lately. I've had this audiobook in my shelf to read for a while now. For some reason I decided to download it this weekend and couldn't stop listening until the end. I also think that writing a good review about The Reluctant Fundamentalist is way above my pay-grade, so I am going to use a few adjectives to describe the book and my reaction to it as best I can: About the book: Enigmatic,Candid, elegant, nuanced, relevant, thoughtful, bitter, powerful... About my reaction to it: Ambivalent, enchanted, spooked, surprised, cautious,mesmerized... I might come back later and add some other thoughts but for now I think that the best I can do. This was a powerful book to read and listen to. Satya Bhabha the narrator of the audiobook, was superb. ...more The Reluctant Fundamentalist is a lesson in civility. Its pacing is practiced and hospitable. There is ceremony and sublimation. Such is the story of Changez, a Pakistani Princeton graduate and one-time corporate star in NYC, told on a wonderful day in Lahore. His shadowy interlocutor is an American of unknown intentions. The novel offers a modest immigrant's tale. While it is clear there is extreme emotion just under the surface, the notion of any real threat remains uncertain. It is this menac The Reluctant Fundamentalist is a lesson in civility. Its pacing is practiced and hospitable. There is ceremony and sublimation. Such is the story of Changez, a Pakistani Princeton graduate and one-time corporate star in NYC, told on a wonderful day in Lahore. His shadowy interlocutor is an American of unknown intentions. The novel offers a modest immigrant's tale. While it is clear there is extreme emotion just under the surface, the notion of any real threat remains uncertain. It is this menace which propels the narrative, enhances our suspicions, allows to err on the side of a hasty credible threat. The novel is masterful as an illumination, as an idyll and as a pointing a finger at our own fears. ...more 'The Reluctant Fundamentalist' is an attempt to give one an idea about what drives youngsters to radical Islamic fundamentalism - a term which has close connotations with political fanaticism, terrorism and anti-americanism. However, Mohsin Hamid has failed miserably. Not only the book was unable to generate a feeling of sympathy and understanding towards the protagonist Changez, it left me pretty convinced that Changez's fundamentalist beliefs are completely un-justified and that he is a hypocr 'The Reluctant Fundamentalist' is an attempt to give one an idea about what drives youngsters to radical Islamic fundamentalism - a term which has close connotations with political fanaticism, terrorism and anti-americanism. However, Mohsin Hamid has failed miserably. Not only the book was unable to generate a feeling of sympathy and understanding towards the protagonist Changez, it left me pretty convinced that Changez's fundamentalist beliefs are completely un-justified and that he is a hypocrite, prejudiced and a despicable human being. *** Spoilers *** Changez, the protagonist, is a young man from Pakistan. Having freshly graduated from Princeton, Changez bags a high-paying job at an American firm. He shows signs of brilliance at work and soon earns the respect of his colleagues. It is also at this high point of his life, that he falls in love with Erica. However, things don't stay that way for long. 9/11 proves to be a turning point in his life. After 9/11 his American Dream falls apart and he abandons America to return to Pakistan. It is also around this time that any hopes of his striking up a relationship with Erica practically die. Unfortunately the story fails in addressing the real issue. No answers are offered to justify Changez's transition from a successful young man to an anti-American revolutionary. More than half the narrative is devoted to his love story which has nothing fresh to offer and is very shallow. On one hand, Changez tries almost too hard to make us believe that he really cares for Erica. On the other, he pretends to be Erica's dead ex-boyfriend, to make her sleep with him. So digusting! The symbolism - Changez's love-affair with (am)Erica - is way too straight and unsubtle to have any real impact. The moment where I hated Changez the most was when he watches the news of 9/11 attacks on television and he smiles . \"I stared as one\u2014and then the other\u2014of the twin towers of New York's World Trade Center collapsed. And then I smiled. Yes, despicable as it may sound, my initial reaction was to be remarkably pleased\u2026 I was caught up in the symbolism of it all, the fact that someone had so visibly brought America to her knees.\" Forgetting that this is the country that offered him an ivy-league education and a highly coveted job and more importantly, looking past the fact that a number of people died in the attacks, he is able to take pleasure in the misfortune of America. As if this doesn't speak volumes of his deeply rooted prejudice against America, the rest of the narrative tries to tell us how post-9/11 events changed his views about America and its role in world politics, thus cultivating in him a hatred and rage towards America. What events cause this change, we are never told. There is a constant mention of his inner struggle, but we never get a glimpse of his emotions. I am gonna need more convincing than Changez thinks that his colleagues are hostile towards him because he is sporting a beard, a symbol of him belonging to Pakistan. Dude! how about it is a professional place and you are expected to look presentable when dealing with business clients? He can't blame America if the American girl he is chasing doesn't love him back or if he loses interest in his job forcing his American employers to fire him. To narrate this dull and uninteresting story, Mohsin Hamid has used a writing style where the narrator doesn't talk directly to the reader. Changez is telling this story to an American stranger visiting Pakistan, but we hear only one side of the conversation. The technique gets boring and awkward and repeatedly uses sentences like \"You are not hungry and you desire me to continue, you say?\" . The language, for the most part, is more befitting for a written form rather than a conversation. One idea I liked was how we are given hints about developing tension between the narrator and the American he is talking to as the conversation goes on. The books has an ambiguous ending leaving us with a sense of danger lurking around the corner. The idea isn't that well executed though. Neither of the possible endings sound too plausible, considering how real-wordly this book is supposed to be. ...more \u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0635\u0644\u064a : \u0662\u0660\u0661\u0662 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0644\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0627\u0643\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0645\u0648\u062d \u0645\u062d\u0633\u0646 \u062d\u0627\u0645\u062f\u060c \u0646\u0627\u0644\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0643\u062b\u064a\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0646\u0627\u0621 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0644\u062f\u0631\u062c\u0629 \u0648\u0635\u0648\u0644\u0647\u0627 \u0644\u0642\u0648\u0627\u0626\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0648\u0643\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0647\u0627\u0626\u064a\u0629. \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u0633\u0631\u062f \u0642\u0635\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0644\u0627\u0642\u064a \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0641\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0642 \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0645\u0647\u0627\u062c\u0631 \u0628\u0627\u0643\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u064a \u0646\u0627\u062c\u062d \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0644\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a. \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0631\u064a\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0630\u064a \u0623\u0639\u0642\u0628 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u0644\u0623\u062d\u062f\u0627\u062b \u0661\u0661 \u0633\u0628\u062a\u0645\u0628\u0631. \u0623\u0633\u0644\u0648\u0628\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u062b\u0631\u064a \u0645\u0643\u062b\u0641 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u064a\u0634\u0628\u0647 \u0647\u0645\u0646\u063a\u0648\u0627\u064a \u0648\u064a\u0645\u064a\u0632\u0647\u0627 \u062a\u0648\u0627\u0632\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0641\u064a \u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0646\u0641\u0648\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0639\u064a\u0634 \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u062d\u062f\u0648\u062f \u0639\u0648\u0627\u0644\u0645 \u0645\u062a\u0635\u0627\u0631\u0639\u0629..\u0627\u0644\u0625\u0631\u0647\u0627\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0646\u062e\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0648\u0648\u0644 \u0633\u062a\u0631\u064a\u062a..\u0627\u0644\u0642\u0627\u0639\u062f\u0629..\u0627\u0644\u0637\u0628\u0642\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0648\u0633\u0637\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0628\u0627\u0643\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062e. I had heard so many good things about this book that my expectations went sky high. But, unfortunately the book failed to live up to my expectations and left me disappointed. The story, in the form of a monologue, is narrated by the protagonist Changez and his audience is an American man who, through in a not-so-subtle way is indicated to be a spy. The meeting takes place in a cafe in the Pakistani city of Lahore, where Changez reveals his \"love affair\" with America and subsequent \"enmity\" with t I had heard so many good things about this book that my expectations went sky high. But, unfortunately the book failed to live up to my expectations and left me disappointed. The story, in the form of a monologue, is narrated by the protagonist Changez and his audience is an American man who, through in a not-so-subtle way is indicated to be a spy. The meeting takes place in a cafe in the Pakistani city of Lahore, where Changez reveals his \"love affair\" with America and subsequent \"enmity\" with the nation. Changez is a Pakistani born to a once-wealthy family, who studied in Princeton and bagged a job at an elite firm that does valuation for company acquisitions. He fell in love with Erica - a girl hailing from the upper class and developed a sort of relationship with her- which of course did not end well. Thousands of reviewers have mentioned this, but let me point out also the significance of the name --- amErica. If I may say so, the name Changez somehow represents \" changes\" - the man who changed from the lover of America to its enemy. I don't want to include any spoilers in my review so I shall not go in to the details.Anyways, initially the book was really interesting but later it started to drag and I found my attention to be waning. I could understand Changez's problems with the cultural differences between America and Pakistan. But, I could never warm up to his character. Here was a man who had the privilege of studying in the august institution of Princeton, bagged a lucrative job through it and what metaphor he uses for the campus placements --- \" Every fall, Princeton raised her skirt for the corporate recruiters .....\" Seriously, you compare your alma mater to a ....... Again, Changez who has been \"taken under the wing\" of the big boss, gets acceptance in the New York's elite through Erica is actually jealous of America. He is actually happy to see the Twin Tower attack as slap on the face of the mighty America. He never suffered any major discrimination there - there were a few minor instances but when you travel to a foreign country, some worthless people would be there. Erica cannot get over the death of her childhood boyfriend and Changez is unable to reach out to her. Changez not only detests America but he has the same feeling for India as well. He suffers from the paranoia that \"belligerent\" India would send her troops to Pakistan with the tacit approval of America. The only good thing about this book was the tension and suspense that developed between Changez and the American. The latter keeps detecting threats which are assuaged by the calm Changez. Worth a try but please don't keep your expectations too high. ...more A lot has been written on 9/ 11, some from a perspective of an American, some from a NRI living there, some from an Afghan, some from a victim, some from a family of the victim. Each crisis, each tragedy affects each of us in very different ways and when multiplied by our current circumstances, affects us accordingly. Then why are all of us expected to react or behave in the same way, why any different reaction is looked as cruel or insensitive. For every war there is a victory, despite the loss A lot has been written on 9/ 11, some from a perspective of an American, some from a NRI living there, some from an Afghan, some from a victim, some from a family of the victim. Each crisis, each tragedy affects each of us in very different ways and when multiplied by our current circumstances, affects us accordingly. Then why are all of us expected to react or behave in the same way, why any different reaction is looked as cruel or insensitive. For every war there is a victory, despite the losses on both sides there is joy and sadness of it. You have to choose sides, it\u2019s not always about supporting the victim, it\u2019s about whom to term a victim. If I suffer I am the victim, no matter who is right or wrong. The book is excellent starting from its title, to its style, to its story, to its narrative and length. Its perfect on all accounts. Probably one of the best books I have read on the reality of current global political situation. It does touch upon global issues like Americas\u2019 high headedness, ugly side of racism, mass killings in name of anti-terrorism, power tussle, manipulative economic aids, age old Indo-Pak animosity, ruthless money making agenda of Investment banks. But the difference is in the simplicity of presenting them. From an individual\u2019s point of view who is a commoner just like any of us. He is not directly affected by any of this, he could have chosen to be blind to all this and had a rich comfortable life as an American. But he starts questioning his role, his own fragile identity amongst all this mess, he tries to make sense and purpose to his existence. His personal confusion gets escalated by his failure in love which only pushes him to run away from everything. He chooses a side, he chooses his identity, but then there are questions which are unanswered. Why does he try to justify? Why does he tell his story to this American? Who is this American? Is he still reluctant and hence justifying? Is he still missing the fundamentals? Is Pakistan used as a run way for America to take off its agenda again Islamic world? Is it the monkey who benefits the most between two fighting cats India-Pakistan? Is there really an issue or is it all power politics? Are we all missing the fundamentalists? Are we all reluctant to ask, to question our roles, our identity? Final word.. READ IT.. it\u2019s a must. ...more So far a total disappointment. What happened to the brilliant author of Moth Smoke? This book with his narrator's monologue looks like an attempt to simplify both: literature and points of view. Even irony seems put here and there without a logic. And the effect of all these fake attempts to pretend the narrator is really having a conversation with the stereotype of an American businessman in Lahore is really disturbing. I hope that Hamid is going to surprise me, but still page after page, chapter af So far a total disappointment. What happened to the brilliant author of Moth Smoke? This book with his narrator's monologue looks like an attempt to simplify both: literature and points of view. Even irony seems put here and there without a logic. And the effect of all these fake attempts to pretend the narrator is really having a conversation with the stereotype of an American businessman in Lahore is really disturbing. I hope that Hamid is going to surprise me, but still page after page, chapter after chapter I am becoming pessimist. And bored. It's all about writing technique and honestly the story itself doesn't catch my attention. The narrator himself in his chaotic and sticky talking doesn't resemble the shy, bright, silently well mannered fellow he is in the story. And this unbearable omniscient figure keeps on narrating for (apparently) the whole book without intermissions. Help! ...more Great title. Amazing start. Abrupt and uncomfortable ending. I could not put this book down. I seldom pick up a book without first perusing the reviews of others to see if it will be worth my while and this book was no exception. So I will never know whether I\u2019d have spotted the allegorical content of this book on my own had I not been tipped off to it thanks to some internet searches or not. It\u2019s pretty blatant so I like to think I\u2019d have caught on in my own time but I\u2019m long done with school an Great title. Amazing start. Abrupt and uncomfortable ending. I could not put this book down. I seldom pick up a book without first perusing the reviews of others to see if it will be worth my while and this book was no exception. So I will never know whether I\u2019d have spotted the allegorical content of this book on my own had I not been tipped off to it thanks to some internet searches or not. It\u2019s pretty blatant so I like to think I\u2019d have caught on in my own time but I\u2019m long done with school and find myself approaching books with a far different tactic than I ever did as a student, so who knows? Even if I hadn\u2019t read the reviews, I\u2019d have been curious to read this book because I find fundamentalists of all flavors very intriguing (Muslims, Christians, Scientists, all of them), so the title alone would have caught my interest. Additionally, this book popped up on my TBR schedule at the right moment in time where I was most receptive to it\u2019s\u2019 message and ready to think about the content inside the cover, namely, the passing of yet another 9/11 anniversary and the fact that I\u2019ve recently finished a couple other books with Middle Eastern content, so my brain is focused there. ***Spoilers Past This Point*** The entire novel is narrated by a young Pakistani man named Changez. At the beginning of the story, he casually introduces himself to a strange American man and invites him to sit down for tea and conversation at a caf\u00e9 in Lahore, Pakistan. As the entirety of the novel is a one-sided narrative, most of the characters in the novel are not \u201cin the present\u201d so to speak. The only characters who are there are Changez, the strange American and the waiter, both of whom we can safely assume are more than meets the eye, which adds to the psychological suspense of this novel. Throughout the course of the novel, Changez shares a significant portion of his life story with the strange American. Changez came to the United States at age 18 to attend Princeton University. He was well-liked by his fellow classmates and graduated summa cum laude, which afforded him the opportunity to accept a very high paying job straight out of college with a valuation firm called Underwood Sampson. With his generous signing bonus, Changez traveled to Greece for the summer with a group of American trust fund students from his school. There he met and became infatuated with a girl named Erica. After returning to the U.S., Changez and Erica (who represents America the beautiful) spend more and more time together and his romantic feelings for her become even stronger. Meanwhile, Changez begins his new job with Underwood Sampson (which represents the U.S. and the golden opportunities available to those who work hard and apply themselves). where he quickly excels to the top of his training class and inevitably, the terrorist attacks of 9/11 also rock the world. Changez (Mr. Change himself!) was on an international assignment with his firm when it happened and his first reaction after seeing images of the attack on television was to smile, which he finds confusing and upsetting. When he returns to New York with his coworkers, he is detained at the airport, subjected to intense questioning and is strip-searched by security personnel. But as soon as he is cleared and returns to his life in Manhattan, he is able to postpone his thoughts about what happened because he is with Erica and continues to fall more in love with her. Despite their intimate friendship, Erica is reluctant to become romantically involved with Changez and admits that she has suffered some serious emotional trauma in her recent past after losing her childhood friend turned high school sweetheart turned serious college boyfriend to early-onset cancer. She is still deeply in love with Chris, her deceased boyfriend, who had died the year before (and who represents a less worldy America of the past, long gone). The first time Erica and Changez attempt to make love, she cannot be aroused and he stops once he realizes he is hurting her. They successfully try again later on after he urges her to close her eyes and pretend he is Chris. It\u2019s at this point that the relationship begins to deteriorate rapidly. Changez feels ashamed that he allowed himself to be overtaken by Chris\u2019s memory and begins to suspect he wasn\u2019t being true to himself, while Erica becomes more distant and troubled and withdrawn. She pines for Chris and confesses that the last time she\u2019d been this bad was right after Chris died. The post traumatic anorexia she had developed after Chris\u2019s death returns and she is institutionalized. At the same time that Changez\u2019s relationship with Erica is falling apart, he allows himself to explore some of the unexplained feelings he\u2019s had in response to the terrorist attacks. His work performance begins to suffer and despite some concerns his mentor from work has about Changez\u2019s ability to separate his private emotional turmoil from his professional life, his mentor makes the decision to send Changez on a high profile business trip to Chile. While there, he falls completely to pieces and makes the decision to quit mid-assignment and leave his job. Without work, he knows his work visa will expire and he will be required to return to Pakistan. Before leaving, Changez attempts to contact Erica. He goes to the institution where he learns that she has disappeared. Her remains had never been recovered but the nurses suspect she may have committed suicide because all her clothing had been located at the top of a bluff overlooking the river. Changez then returns to Pakistan where we learn that he spent much of his time dreaming of Erica and fantasizing about the life they could have had together. Or might have had together. And wishes they\u2019d have had together. Eventually he accepts a job teaching at a local university where he becomes very popular and well-known for making incendiary speeches (which he staunchly maintains is meant to be acted on in a peaceful, academic manner). He admits that the university would probably like to fire him because much of what he says is a little too well-received by anti-American protestors, but because of the long waiting list to get into his classes, the officials are unable to justify letting him go. The book then ends very abruptly with Changez offering to walk the strange American back to his hotel. They appear to have been followed by the menacing waiter from the caf\u00e9 and another unidentified man. The book ends with the strange American reaching inside his jacket for something unidentified and metal. Changez asks if it is a business card holder, assuming that he and the strange American man have developed a bond after spending the evening together, and then it is over. A letdown? Kind of. Disappointing? A little. But frankly, I couldn\u2019t imagine the book ending in any other way. The ultimate outcome and fallout that will result from continued racial discrimination is not yet known. This is something that those of us who are alive right now are suffering or perpetuating. Leaving the ending so painfully open-ended forces the reader to consider the possibilities from all sides of the argument. Who is right? Who was wrong? Who is us and who is them? How will this be resolved? Can it be resolved? Will things ever change? How long can this go on? Who can we trust? Are social ties stronger than the individual experience? Is America still the land of opportunity? Is there hope for the Middle East? Is there hope for America? Can we ever afford to reveal our humanity to the other side? ...more A few decades ago, before publishers felt the need to justify the eight dollar price tags of mass market paperbacks with page counts of 400 or more, a thriller novel could be as tightly plotted as any Hitchcock masterpiece\u2014and lean books like John LeCarre\u2019s The Spy Who Came In From the Cold were both global bestsellers and geopolitical commentaries at least as astute as most now forgotten serious non-fiction studies of the Communist Threat. By bloating themselves with romantic subplots and chase A few decades ago, before publishers felt the need to justify the eight dollar price tags of mass market paperbacks with page counts of 400 or more, a thriller novel could be as tightly plotted as any Hitchcock masterpiece\u2014and lean books like John LeCarre\u2019s The Spy Who Came In From the Cold were both global bestsellers and geopolitical commentaries at least as astute as most now forgotten serious non-fiction studies of the Communist Threat. By bloating themselves with romantic subplots and chase scenes, thrillers have lost much of their ability to thrill. Still, they sometimes find themselves ahead of the news. When Gorbachev and Reagan had warmed to one another, there was a brief period in which the United States seemed to have no significant foreign enemies. Serious scholars wrote about \u201cthe end of history,\u201d and many joked that writers like LeCarre had been put out of business. Thriller writers, however, merely cast about for the next great threat. China was a top candidate for a time, but the Middle East quickly became the preferred source of villains. When the 9/11 attacks occurred it was widely noted that Tom Clancy\u2019s novel Debt of Honor included a passenger airliner being flown into the Capitol Building by a suicide pilot. (Not as noted: The pilot was not Muslim but Japanese.) The Turner Diaries also ended with a White Supremacist terrorist flying a plane into the White House, but that character was, of course, the hero of the novel. Still, the media image\u2014provided by thriller novels as well as the movies made from or inspired by them\u2014of the Islamic male as the author of spectacular mayhem was so widespread that not only did nearly everyone comment that the attacks seemed like something \u201cout of a movie\u201d but they had little doubt, before any evidence appeared, that Middle Eastern terrorists were responsible. This was not even something new. When the Federal Building in Oklahoma City was bombed the media immediately cast it as an act of Islamic terrorism. Even after Timothy McVeigh\u2019s arrest and conviction, some had trouble letting this notion go\u2014the theory that Sadaam Hussein was in collusion with McVeigh had currency amongst some in the White House who lobbied for the Iraq invasion of 2003. Indeed, when they were not in the news in connection with actual terrorist attacks, the only time most Americans heard or read about Middle Easterners was when they were represented as terrorists in thrillers. Now the Islamist terror and America\u2019s reaction to it is the dominant story of our time, one needn\u2019t even go to the supermarket for their fix of fictional representations. 24 provides a weekly supply of interrogation porn on television and respectable authors like John Updike and Martin Amis employ their powers to enter the minds of suicide bombers. But with the publication of The Reluctant Fundamentalist we get a literary perspective on current events that has been largely missing. The book\u2019s cover design does not shout thriller. It looks, in fact, with its image of an unshaven Pakistani man\u2019s face partially covered by strips of flag, like another of the many non-fictional memoirs that have appeared in the past few years, with subtitles such as My Two Years in Gitmo. And the fact that the author, Mohsin Hamid, was born in Pakistan and educated at Princeton and is writing about a character born in Pakistan and educated at Princeton, might lead one to suspect that this is, like many novels, a thinly veiled memoir. The word thriller does, however, appear on the front cover, in a blurb, and while this book doesn\u2019t even crack the 200 page mark and no murdered art historians are to be found within, it is a thriller, in the same sense that Graham Greene\u2019s entertainments were thrillers. Hamid\u2019s protagonist, Changez, speaks directly, and cordially, to \u201cyou,\u201d an American (who may or may not be a tourist) at a caf\u00e9 in Lahore. He assures you that he loves America and proceeds to tell his story. A lucrative position at a slightly cultlike New York valuations firm raises him out of his family\u2019s financial ruin and begins to give him an American outlook on the world. He starts dating a beautiful writer, Emily, and easily blends in to multicultural Manhattan. But when the 9/11 attacks occur, Changez feels a sense of pleasure, not he says at the loss of life, but at the idea of America brought to her knees. After all, he asks you, \u201cDo you feel no joy at the video clips\u2014so prevalent these days\u2014of American munitions laying waste to the structures of your enemies?\u201d At this point, Changez\u2019s assimilation begins to come undone. On business trips, he is subjected to intense scrutiny at airports while his colleagues travel on without him. On the streets he is glared at by drivers. Pedestrians mutter insults. Emily stops returning his calls and at first he believes it has something to do with the attacks and his ethnicity. The actual reason, he learns, is perhaps more troubling\u2014Emily is sinking into clinical depression and obsessing over a previous boyfriend who died of cancer. She tells him, \u201cI kind of miss home too. Except that my home was a guy with long skinny fingers.\u201d He tries to hold on to his love for America and for Emily, but neither seem to want him anymore. On a trip to visit his family in Pakistan, at a time, late 2002, when a war with India seemed inevitable, Changez\u2019s perspective changes. He acquires the sense\u2014perhaps the same one Americans felt briefly after 9/11\u2014of being a citizen of a homeland under siege and starts to think about what responsibilities such citizenship entails. When he returns to his job he wears a two week old beard that evokes images of terrorists in the minds of his co-workers. A friend advises him to shave, telling him, \u201cYou need to be careful. This whole corporate collegiality veneer only goes so deep.\u201d As America, wrapped up in its 9/11 memorial and the run-up to the Iraq invasion, ignores Pakistan\u2019s troubles (or, as he comes to believe, even encourages India\u2019s aggression), and Emily vanishes, Changez acquires twin obsessions, personal and political, and begins making choices that eventually lead to the very conversation you are having with him in Lahore. I will not reveal the ending, but will say that it, unlike the artificially twist-heavy endings of most bestselling thrillers, is logical and genuine. The book doesn\u2019t mean to merely shock, it sets out to create \u201ca certain shared intimacy\u201d with a character that events may have led you, as an American, to see as your enemy. http://mullatari.parastrophy.com/arch... ...more The Reluctant Fundmentalist is a good read if a sad story of loss.However, for all the knowledge the author most surely has, he could perhaps shed more light on the internal motivation of his main charater and the root of his driving loyalties. These are the most confuseing ideas for the western mind to grasp when thinking about the middle east: loyalty and motivation. Rather then use a long and seemingly eliteist westernized educated rambling to highlight these points that confuse most americans The Reluctant Fundmentalist is a good read if a sad story of loss.However, for all the knowledge the author most surely has, he could perhaps shed more light on the internal motivation of his main charater and the root of his driving loyalties. These are the most confuseing ideas for the western mind to grasp when thinking about the middle east: loyalty and motivation. Rather then use a long and seemingly eliteist westernized educated rambling to highlight these points that confuse most americans (including those of us with some hands on experiance of the region). Rather it is as if our main charater simply tells all excpet that which we most crave hearing, surely Changez is smart enough to know how his ecounter with the jumpy clean-cut american will end. It is all foreshadowed from the very first chapter. Thus why not expound on his loyalties and motivations? We learn many details of his four years spent in America (which Changez comes to see as a sort of treachery of his roots, I for one would like to know why, but Hamid doesn't seem to think it needs explaining). This left me with an empty feeling when I finished the book. Rather then explain the \"reluctance\" we come to see a wonderful story of an overworked twenty something with a bright future who simply breaks down in the face of real life, something that perhaps more often then not in competetive enviroments. This part of the story is well written and engrossing on its own, yet at every turn when a shadow or hit could perhaps be offered; enticing more thought of the deeper and inherently more conflicted tides within Changez's charater, we are left wanting. We know there is a battle raging inside of Changez we can see it in his actions yet we are only offered the description of his actions (he grows a beard, he becomes sloppy at work, his anger grows and he has a hair trigger.) Surely it would be nice to know what is running though Changez's head as he goes though this metamorphsis. That would be the implied question inside of the title, yet again we are left wanting at the most lucid of moments To this end I found this book frustrating, I am deeply confused myself as to how those in middle eastern counties identify with their religions, their tribes, and their states (I am a service member, currently serving) and I am aware that it is diffrent in every country. And given my honestly rather limited experiance I feel that The Reluctant Fundamentalist falls short of explaining this concept to the western mind. (when I picked the book up at the PX I was looking for that very answer, I was left with more of the typical confusion when I had finished. I though the reading, looked for reasons why Changez \"was the reluctant fundmentalist.\" Rather then find this instead I found that it seemed like an exceptionally talented and bright if somewhat confused twenty-two year old having a very traditional crisis upon entering a highly charged working world. I was left with no other reason that he \"became fundmetalist\" other then the fact he was Pakistani. It rang empty to my wanting ears and perhaps more dangerously it promotes a sterotyped view of those from the entire middle eastern region (supplied perhaps by the \"Ugly Americans\" reading audience, who don't know enough about the region or its people as it were to think in anything more then superficial sterotype). Indeed it was my motivation for purchaseing the book, I wished to get a more personalized down to earth perspective on the entire conflict, I was dissapointed. What values derived from Pakistan made Changez question his loyalty to his job? Perhaps during the shock of nine-eleven when the book is set such unexplained actions make sense and indeed I do not question the books feelings. But the book stands to offer so much more: more about deeper motivations and explinations behind those feelings, more about tradional values colliding with the west. I found the work not fully explaining its title. Where was that internal struggle that made Changez \"reluctant\"? It seems Changez was rather swayed by traditional words of wisdom, but they were from a man in South America, what paralell does this draw to his own culture? I was agian confused and left without explination. Thus The Reluctant fundamentalist rather then offering me a clear glimpse into the hatred that seems to directed towards my country I was left just as confused as when I started to read it in the first place. I suppose I expected too much from the book, for it is still an excellent story. ...more", "Title": "The Reluctant Fundamentalist"},
