{"Comments": "I started this last night, heading home after one of the most dreadful evenings in recent memory. So lately my life does seem like a pot of thick, scalding acrid coffee; I read books in the hope that they'll help me choke it down. But for some reason everything I pick up lately's been unsatisfying, like skim milk or soy. It might take the edge off,<---M> but not nicely</---M>, and with some of this stuff I think I might be better off drinking the coffee black. That Martin Amis is like some synthetic creamer, I started this last night, heading home after one of the most dreadful evenings in recent memory. So lately my life does seem like a pot of thick, scalding acrid coffee; I read books in the hope that they'll help me choke it down. But for some reason everything I pick up lately's been unsatisfying, like skim milk or soy. It might take the edge off, but not nicely, and with some of this stuff I think I might be better off drinking the coffee black. That Martin Amis is like some synthetic creamer, with an artificial flavor that's kind of alluringly disgusting.... I keep drinking this shit because I have to.<---F> But it doesn't taste good</---F>. Anyway, riding back home half-drunk from a novelistically bad party, I opened <+++>The Line of Beauty</+++> , and started to read. I'd put this on my to-read list ages ago after pillaging a beloved professor's Amazon reviews, and reviews by terrifyingly-literate-Eric-of-the-drink-and-wide-smirk have recently pushed Hollinghurst back into my mind. This man's writing is like cream you only get at the farm. I am holding my mug underneath the cow's teat here, I guess, while Farmer Alan squirts this magical substance in. It's like smooth white gold, a dream mouthful, delicious. This coffee tastes fabulous. I could drink it all day. Maybe that's a gross metaphor, just wrong or too dumb. And yeah, I'm only fifty pages in, but seriously, he writes like a dream. It's been awhile since I've started anything that felt this good. Late last night finishing a cigarette on the fire escape, inventorying the bitter, dark, stinking thing that's my life these days, I tried to think of promising reasons to wake up in the morning, to drink literal coffee and walk out the door. And when I thought of reading more of this novel, I got really excited. Because honestly it kind of doesn't matter if your life's watery burnt crap, if you're reading something good enough, you can usually get by. I hope this book lives up to its promising opening. But even if it doesn't, I'm grateful for the feeling. Sometimes you have a bad run when no books can engage you, and you start to wonder what the point of reading is, if it's anything more than a banal time-filling hobby. Like is this any better than playing games on my cellphone? Am I not just killing time on my daily commute? I love being reminded that that's not it at all. We read to save our mouths from burning, we read to slow the ulcers. We read because we have to, because otherwise this cupful's just too rank to swallow. **** Okay, I'm done. I have accomplished little this week besides reading this book. I looked forward to commutes, took the local train instead of the express; I waited for buses and elevators when I normally would've walked, and showed up early at dinner dates so I'd have time first to read. My main impression while reading was an image of <---A>Alan Hollinghurst</---A> encountering The English Language one night on a stroll through the park. I pictured him coaxing it into some unlit shrubbery, and then gently but manfully bending The English Language over against an oak tree, sort of holding it there, unzipping his trousers, and masterfully -- generously -- turning it gay. God, these ENGLISH and their NOVELS. How do they do it? A lot of sentences in here made me feel I should stop embarrassing myself and degrading the language by writing any more sentences of my own. Of course, I used to say that about Ian McEwan, but Hollinghurst can make McEwan sort of look like a hack. Maybe McEwan should stop writing sentences too! The only reason McEwan's more famous must be because his TMI sex scenes tend not to be gay, and a lot of people really are inexplicably freaked out by gay male sex. Not this reader! The sex in the opening (<---B>and best</---B>) section of the novel conveys the thrill of first love and being young and the figuring of that stuff out with a touching accuracy that many writers have shot for but few have so successfully nailed. This is a book that would make E. M. Forster blush, not just for being too graphic for his era's sensibility, but because he might've wished he'd lived long enough to have written it. To me this was about as good as a Forster novel, which is HIGH PRAISE, FRIEND! I almost never say dumb stuff like that.... how embarrassing.... Actually I guess it's supposed to be Jamesian, as the protagonist's a James scholar/fanboy, but it's been so long since I've read James, and I've read so little, that I really don't know if this was Jamesian or not. I do think though that <+++>The Line of Beauty</+++> might've helped heal me from the ancient thwarting trauma of trying to read The Awkward Age in college, so maybe I'll give the old guy another chance... Anyway, where was I? What was I saying? Oh, I was fawning and drooling all over this book, and it was frankly pathetic. Obviously not everyone would love this as much as I did. It's a very straightforward novel set in Thatcher-era England, following the winkingly-named Nick Guest, a middle-class gay aesthete who has insinuated himself, though his friendship with an Oxford classmate, into the very wealthy household of a Tory MP. It takes place between the years 1983 and 1987, and follows Nick's relationship with the family, his romances and sexual development, his preoccupations with beauty and pleasure, and some other stuff.... You know, it's your fairly standard kind of thing, I just thought it was spectacularly well-written. The plot developments and characters were predictable and I could see how one might argue they were cliched, but somehow even this kind of worked for me, and made it seem more like an older novel, in a good way. I guess I could've done without all the drugs -- why do drugs follow me everywhere I go? I'll be reading the classiest, most seemingly together book, and all of a sudden the author pulls out a bag! -- but I guess that's what I get for picking up a novel about rich people in the eighties. There were a few things here I wasn't so crazy about. For one thing, while I must applaud Alan Hollingsworth's discovery of the adverb \"illusionlessly,\" which truly is precious -- even priceless -- when used to describe a facial expression or tone of voice, I wish someone had told him he could only use it once. Maybe twice.... but not every thirty pages! Alan! Restrain yourself! Please! There were a couple things in here like that, overuse of certain words, and while on some I'll give him a who-knows-how-rich-people-talk-over-there-not-me pass on some (such as \"longing\"), the language was so gorgeous and memorable and almost perfect to me, that the exceptions glared out. Isn't this what editors are for? To count frequency of use for your favorite pet words, and make you cut down? I feel like you tend to see this problem more in short story books; it's less forgivable in a novel. Maybe I am missing some in-joke about Henry James, who used these particular words ceaselessly, and I just don't get it. Still. Oh, but I only complain because otherwise I'd melt! There were sentences in here that made me cry. As you may know, I do cry easily, but it's not usually just from sentences. There were a few in here, man.... whew. Oh boy. The other, potentially more serious thing I took issue with here was towards the end, when the book got all plotty and reached what I felt was an unnecessary and awkwardly clunky climax. I like the kind of books I can only assume Hollinghurst also likes in large part because they don't ruin themselves with plots. I'm obsessed lately with the idea that some compulsion to plot often prevents an author telling the real story. I think that happened here, somewhat. The events felt distracting from what was really going on, and just on the whole, the more that was happening the less masterfully it was handled. Nick Guest is really an incredible main character. Reading this gave me the first faint interest in rereading Gatsby for the first time since high school, because I feel like there's a joke there and I want to get it. Isn't the main character in that Nick too? Anyway, the way he makes this guy and the relationship I developed with him as the reader was just awesome in the older sense of the term. I was awed by it, really. I'm embarrassed by this review. I'm nervous about all this gushing because I don't want everyone to run out and get this and then be like, \"What's your problem, Jessica? Why the fuss, psycho?\" I guess a lot of this just appealed to certain of my own sensibilities. If, for instance, you are somehow not captivated by gay male sexuality, Thatcherite England, or novels about rich people, you might not love this. There! You have been warned. But seriously: you're not into that stuff? Really? How can you not be? Maybe YOU'RE the one with the problem, you ever think of that? Anyway, I'm dawdling because I'm not that excited about going to bed right now. I'm truly dreading tomorrow's commute to work for the first time this week. Where can I go from this? Middlemarch ? I think it might be time. This is the first book that's really made me feel this way since the end of that affair with Proust all those many months ago, and I just can't see a rebound now with some random library pickup. I guess I'll have to try a classic, and hope for the best.... High praise again: truly, a tough book to follow. ...more There are many models of beauty and as old saying goes beauty is in the eye of the beholder . There is a classic definition of the line of beauty depicted by Hogarth in his work Analyse of beauty , it\u2019s a S-shaped double curve , though for Nick , the main protagonist of Alan Hollinghurst novel , the perfect line of beauty creates delicate curve of lover\u2019s back . Novel starts in the summer 1983 when young Nick Guest moves into the house of his friend Toby Fedden . This part breathes newness an There are many models of beauty and as old saying goes beauty is in the eye of the beholder . There is a classic definition of the line of beauty depicted by Hogarth in his work Analyse of beauty , it\u2019s a S-shaped double curve , though for Nick , the main protagonist of Alan Hollinghurst novel , the perfect line of beauty creates delicate curve of lover\u2019s back . Novel starts in the summer 1983 when young Nick Guest moves into the house of his friend Toby Fedden . This part breathes newness and freshness , there is an expectation of love and an air of innocence though the way Nick is losing his virginity is far from romanticism . Second part brings more sophisticated Nick , more fatigued in his pursuit of pleasure , rather satiated than fulfilled with love but also a new romance with not so unexpected partner . The final chapter is just overshadowed by death and sadness of recognition . I was captivated by that novel though neither the background , political and social , nor protagonists are my thing . Alan Hollinghurst\u2019s prose is exquisite , sharp and ironic when depicts the Feddens , their friends and relatives and whole Tory-related milieu . But we can as well sense the spirit and the mood of E.M. Forster and Evelyn Waugh here . The same story of a young man from the lower classes seduced by wealthy friends , their beautiful house , impeccable manners , falsehood and hypocrisy lurking behind the bright facade . Though it is Henry James who provides patronage for whole story . Henry James whom Nick adores and generously quotes . Nick Guest is not all lovable figure . Hedonist , gay , admirer of beauty and connoisseur of art . Strangely passive and unreflective , with his mouth packed with platitudes on beauty and style . Feddens\u2019 eternal resident , somehow inept to live on its own , still loyal and attached to the family . His attitude bespeaks some kind of emptiness and indolence , emotional immaturity and his search for love and pleasure ends with some desperate spasms in the fumes of alcohol and cocaine . But towards the end when Nick makes an appearance of perfect scapegoat and in an air of scandal abandons the Feddens\u2019 house , just then , embracing all spent there years , foreboding years that were yet to come , sensing in fact his absence in these times , has finally brief vision of clear beauty . ...more It makes me angry that I don't know much about U.S. history, modern U.S. history... and British history? Fuggedaboutit! I wish I knew more about the Thatcher administration since the novel is coupled with those years as efficiently as THE HUMAN STAIN goes hand-in-hand with the Lewinski scandal. One must know how much pathos is ingrained in these particular events from not too long ago...since it adds the requisite magic to elevate them, these modern classics. It's about: gay sex and drugs, the 19 It makes me angry that I don't know much about U.S. history, modern U.S. history... and British history? Fuggedaboutit! I wish I knew more about the Thatcher administration since the novel is coupled with those years as efficiently as THE HUMAN STAIN goes hand-in-hand with the Lewinski scandal. One must know how much pathos is ingrained in these particular events from not too long ago...since it adds the requisite magic to elevate them, these modern classics. It's about: gay sex and drugs, the 1980's and financial power. The politics do take second stage (& with grace). What's not to love? Insanely sexy and exquisitely old fashioned (it has the clout of Henry James... too, it's somewhat difficult to read, but that's why it's all the more ...exquisite), THE LINE OF BEAUTY has all the best of what (American) Bret Easton Ellis has to offer in the world of risque lit., plus a more distinguished, intelligent language of its own, and a master's effortlessness with prose and form. I must say that politics aside, the story is BRIDESHEAD REVISITED 2.0. What was never shown in that particular work of British manners and bourgeois life is found nestled here. Thank god for the Modern Age! ...more Alan Hollinghurst\u2019s prose is simply beautiful. His words make made me breathless even if his milieu is something that I am not very familiar with: London in the eighties. His prose is so beautiful that I felt that I would never be able to write a novel myself. Hollinghurst is like a god in the Olympus and I am just a mortal slave and I am not even worthy to kiss the ground he steps on. It is so beautiful, I felt like putting it at the altar stare at pray that it would inspire me to continue writ Alan Hollinghurst\u2019s prose is simply beautiful. His words make made me breathless even if his milieu is something that I am not very familiar with: London in the eighties. His prose is so beautiful that I felt that I would never be able to write a novel myself. Hollinghurst is like a god in the Olympus and I am just a mortal slave and I am not even worthy to kiss the ground he steps on. It is so beautiful, I felt like putting it at the altar stare at pray that it would inspire me to continue writing that little novel that I have started writing after attending a novel-writing workshop three months ago. Line of Beauty is a 2004 Booker Prize-winning novel by Alan Hollinghurst. It is about gay men, most of them rich, in Thatcherite Britain in the early to mid-80\u2019s. It is the first gay-themed book that won the Booker. Based on Wiki, the composition of the panel of judges changes every year so maybe its members were predominantly gays during that year since 2 (the other was Colm Toibin\u2019s The Master ) of the 6 finalist-books are gay-themed and this one won over the stylist \u2013 and my favorite \u2013 David Mitchell\u2019s Cloud Atlas . Prior to reading \u201cBeauty\u201d, I already read \u201cCloud\u201d and \u201cThe Master\u201d and both gave them 4 stars. I liked the brilliant structure of \u201cCloud\u201d and the ethereal prose of \u201cThe Master\u201d and they did not prepare me to the fact that there is still a better book than them and that is this Hollinghurst book. I agree with the Booker jurors. Line of Beauty is taut and cohesive. It is neither pretentious nor self-serving. It tells the story flawlessly like there is no story worth telling than those of the characters in it. The plot is focused, crystal-clear in sharpness that it is illuminating and mesmerizing. It tells the story of Nick Guest a 21-y/o virgin gay who just graduated from Oxford and is currently working on his analysis of Henry James works for his masteral degree. (Interestingly, Toibin\u2019s finalist book, \u201cThe Master\u201d is the retelling of the early part of Henry James\u2019 life.) Nick is invited by his fellow Oxford graduate and secret crush, a straight man, Toby to stay in the attic of their beautiful London upper class house. Toby still lives with the rest of the Feddens: his father Gerald , mother Rachel and his bi-polar sister Catherine. What follows is the 4-5 year awakening of Nick from the na\u00efve and almost clueless Oxford graduate to somebody who\u2019s aware of what\u2019s going on in his surroundings. He ends up looking at the stark realities of London\u2019s life in the 80s: being gay and relatively poor amidst the highly materialistic and generally homophobic London upper-class society. All these punctuated by the emerging threat of AIDS that spread like wildfire in the 80\u2019s in all countries and levels of society. It will be outright dishonesty if I say that I really liked this book because of its gay theme. The homosexual acts are just too much for my taste. However, I am not familiar with the sex lives of gay people and I don\u2019t have any idea how frequent an average gay man gets laid or needs to get laid for him to have a sexually fulfilling life. I am not sure if Hollinghurst only wants to project an honest-to-goodness portrayal of the lives of gay men in the London in the 80\u2019s but the language he used in this novel could be too much for some readers. It was a bit shocking for me considering that this is a Booker winner. However, if you look over this supposedly \u201chonest\u201d language and portrayal and focus on the prose, theme, plot and character development, you will see the beauty in the novel as a whole. I am just not sure about the metaphor of the double \u201cS\u201d being the so-called \u201cline of beauty\u201d since I have not seen \u2013 not that I am looking \u2013 a man with that curve all my life. Thanks to Angus for being my buddy read for this book. You rock, Eng-ghez! ...more 3.5 stars rounded up Booker prize winner in 2004, Hollinghurst writes about the 1980s and more particularly about Thatcher\u2019s Britain and the onset of HIV/AIDS. It is the story of Nick Guest, a young gay man from a middle class background. He meets the son (Toby) of a rising Tory MP (Gerald Fedden) at Oxford and after graduating moves in with Toby\u2019s family as a lodger. The backdrop is London of the 1980s. Nick moves in glamorous circles and the line of beauty goes back to Hogarth\u2019s s shaped curve i 3.5 stars rounded up Booker prize winner in 2004, Hollinghurst writes about the 1980s and more particularly about Thatcher\u2019s Britain and the onset of HIV/AIDS. It is the story of Nick Guest, a young gay man from a middle class background. He meets the son (Toby) of a rising Tory MP (Gerald Fedden) at Oxford and after graduating moves in with Toby\u2019s family as a lodger. The backdrop is London of the 1980s. Nick moves in glamorous circles and the line of beauty goes back to Hogarth\u2019s s shaped curve in his book. It runs through the book via Henry James, (Nick is studying him at post-grad level) to cocaine; another beautiful line in the book and on to the concept of beauty in physical terms. For Nick this is male beauty. Against the glamour and the wealth is a political backdrop of the conservatives in power. The shadow of Thatcher is never far away as Gerald works hard to ingratiate himself and gain political power. Nick\u2019s sexuality is also to the fore as we follow him through two relationships; with Leo who is black and working class and Wani who is very rich and Lebanese. The spectre of AIDS gradually grows as the book goes on, although it does not really affect the Fedden\u2019s and their political circles, nor the sections of the upper class they mix with. It\u2019s all beautifully written and Hollinghurst captures an aspect of the culture of the time very well. Nick is an amiable narrator who seems to drift through the book without being too greatly affected by it all. Inevitably comparisons have been made with other works. I can see the similarities to Brideshead Revisited, less so to Maurice. The more obvious comparison is to Powell\u2019s Dance to the Music of Time series, but it doesn\u2019t have the scope and depth Powell gave to his series. There was, for me, hollowness at the centre. Nick is amiable, but for me his character is summed up by an incident near the end of the book. He goes into a bar and sees someone he had a relationship with earlier in the book. This someone is gaunt, very ill, and dying of an AIDS related illness. Nick avoids him and manages to leave without being seen. He manages to drift through the lives of the Fedden\u2019s and their circle with few moral qualms. I do remember the 80s; I was living in the north of England, mostly in working class and mining areas; the Tories and Thatcher were the enemy. It was difficult to engage with any of the characters, apart from Leo; but it does capture a place and time. ...more An unusually powerful and deserving winner of the Man Book Prize, this is one of the few books that took me over a year to read, not because it was ever boring or sluggish, but because each sentence was so beautiful, I wanted to give every passage its due attention. I rarely say such things about books, so Hollinghurst must be a magician or a hypnotist. As it took me so long to read, I spent an embarrassing amount of time repeating to people who asked me what I was reading that it was Line of Be An unusually powerful and deserving winner of the Man Book Prize, this is one of the few books that took me over a year to read, not because it was ever boring or sluggish, but because each sentence was so beautiful, I wanted to give every passage its due attention. I rarely say such things about books, so Hollinghurst must be a magician or a hypnotist. As it took me so long to read, I spent an embarrassing amount of time repeating to people who asked me what I was reading that it was Line of Beauty , about a young homosexual during Thatcher's 80s England, staying at his straight friend's home, making a life for himself after Oxford, and that they just had to read it. In fact, after I'd caught myself recommending it to him for the second or even third time, my doctor no longer asks me what I'm reading: he must think I actually don't read many books after all or that I have a secret agenda to get him to come out of the closet. My brother said it'd been done before, the story of a scholarship student in a world he doesn't belong in. But this isn't just about a middle-class boy in the rarefied world of Oxford, a servant among lords, a homosexual in a \"straight\" family, a liberal among conservatives, or young adults finding the harshness of reality after the college cocoon. Hollinghurst's social wit gently reveals the absurdity in each one of his characters. Hollinghurst is above all a humane and empathetic author, not a writer of British manners or a writer of gay literature. That the Booker committee awarded him their prize makes me forgive them for every horrendous mistake they've made in the years since. Sometimes, they do get it right (as they did with Coetzee). ...more 3.5 stars A really masterful novel, though not one that I'd say I always particularly enjoyed. The dragging middle was book-ended by some wonderfully flagrant and emotional moments. I especially loved how Hollinghurst was able to stir up so emotion in the final scenes. It touches on public and private selves, love, beauty, all rather grandiose themes, in a startlingly humorous and down-to-earth manner. Be Forewarned. This well-written society critique and winner of the 2004 Man Booker prize will bore the pants off you unless you are deeply interested in class struggle, gayness, politics, ethnicity, and AIDs, (the intersection of) in England in the mid-to-late 80s. Oh, and antiques. Talk about a niche! It was one of two books I brought on my 20 hour flight to Singapore, where I was planning on enjoying, at long last, some time to myself to read. About 50 pages into it, my mind cried, \"Noooooo\" a Be Forewarned. This well-written society critique and winner of the 2004 Man Booker prize will bore the pants off you unless you are deeply interested in class struggle, gayness, politics, ethnicity, and AIDs, (the intersection of) in England in the mid-to-late 80s. Oh, and antiques. Talk about a niche! It was one of two books I brought on my 20 hour flight to Singapore, where I was planning on enjoying, at long last, some time to myself to read. About 50 pages into it, my mind cried, \"Noooooo\" and I was resigned to watching the full catalog of international TV comedies (Hum Paanch, anyone?) on Singapore Airline's TV on demand. Thanks a lot, Man Booker Prize committee! ...more Hollinghurst's gay protagonist, Nick Guest, more or less ingenuously follows his sexual and aesthetic inclinations, which lead him, somewhat incongruously, into the house of Tory MP Gerald Fedden, the arms of a Lebanese millionaire's son, and finally personal disaster and tragedy. The thin thread that binds and shapes Nick's muddling way through his life is beauty, and his trajectory is in a way a test of its strength and worth. Hollinghurst holds up for us the thinness of beauty and the foolish Hollinghurst's gay protagonist, Nick Guest, more or less ingenuously follows his sexual and aesthetic inclinations, which lead him, somewhat incongruously, into the house of Tory MP Gerald Fedden, the arms of a Lebanese millionaire's son, and finally personal disaster and tragedy. The thin thread that binds and shapes Nick's muddling way through his life is beauty, and his trajectory is in a way a test of its strength and worth. Hollinghurst holds up for us the thinness of beauty and the foolishness of its worship, yet when Nick's ostensibly hollow collaboration with shallow, materialistic, philistine Wani comes to unexpected glorious (but limited) fruition we are invited to reconsider. Beauty is a heartless god, the book admits, but impossible to deny. And sometimes those who struggle and suffer in its service are richly rewarded... I've had a some discussions with an artist who believes that beauty is a concept that should not be applied to people at all. I said I can't deny the 'tingling in the spine' induced by beauty and she responded 'it's not anyone's purpose to make your spine tingle'. I totally agree with that - but I still can't stop my visceral response to and pleasure in beauty, whether I'm looking at a sunset or a person. The conversation prompted me to think hard about this, and to see how personal beauty being instrumentalised has a regressive effect, reinforcing hierarchies and layers of oppression. On the other hand, if beauty is visceral and inextricably related to positive identification and sympathy, we need to work hard to pull the encultured hierarchies from it. I'm thinking more now about dismantling the whiteness of beauty, the youthfulness and thinness of beauty, all of which are arbritrary and exist because they serve white supremacist capitalist patriarchy. Decapitalise beauty! But I'm still working out how to frame this issue and how to reconstruct my appreciation. Here, structures of class and heterosexism pervade relationships, but Hollinghurst only offers them in the way Fitzgerald offers images of an unwholesome lifestyle he can't escape. There is little interrogation. And as in Fitzgerald, there's no redemption. The characters here are delicately drawn, never rendered without colour and shade, and Nick himself shares his creator's insight and empathy for others. I had deep sympathy for this soul, and felt a mixture of admiration and disapproval! ...more Occasionally I pick up a book that is so good I purposefully read it slowly or even set it down for a while about halfway through because I want to relish its reality longer, and because completing a book, no matter how many times I might re-read it in the future, marks a terminus you can\u2019t ever get back, and exceptional books are the sort of terminuses you shouldn't cross lightly! The Line of Beauty was one of those books. This is truly a masterpiece, artfully written, psychologically rich and Occasionally I pick up a book that is so good I purposefully read it slowly or even set it down for a while about halfway through because I want to relish its reality longer, and because completing a book, no matter how many times I might re-read it in the future, marks a terminus you can\u2019t ever get back, and exceptional books are the sort of terminuses you shouldn't cross lightly! The Line of Beauty was one of those books. This is truly a masterpiece, artfully written, psychologically rich and moving. I can\u2019t recommend this book too highly for anyone with a hankering for great literature. You won\u2019t be disappointed. ...more DNF at about pg 228. The Line of Beauty is actually the first book I don't finish. It is a bittersweet feeling, but I am quite happy with my decision and I feel absolutely relieved. I always pressure myself to finish the book even if I don't like it and such. However, I don't think that is the best approach to reading. We should be able to do what we want to do. We don't like a book and don't want to reach the end? Fine. Do we want to push ourselves till the last page? Do it. There are so many book DNF at about pg 228. The Line of Beauty is actually the first book I don't finish. It is a bittersweet feeling, but I am quite happy with my decision and I feel absolutely relieved. I always pressure myself to finish the book even if I don't like it and such. However, I don't think that is the best approach to reading. We should be able to do what we want to do. We don't like a book and don't want to reach the end? Fine. Do we want to push ourselves till the last page? Do it. There are so many books and so little time, right? Let's not waste time on books that are not worth our time. For different and subjective reasons, obviously. This is coming from me, who never managed to stop herself from finish a book. This book, at the beginning, really took my interest. I was interested in the characters' background and the story was not something I had read before. I liked it and I was eager to continue. Then, I paused my reading because of uni exams. A few weeks later I dread re-opening the book. I started and finished other ones, I even called my library to postpone the date where I should have brought it back. I felt guilty. And, in some way, I still feel guilty. I feel like I should apologize to the author, to the characters, to the story and to the physical book itself. But, then, I think about all the readers and all the books out there and I realize how small of a difference I make. Yes, I personally would have liked to finish it but I couldn't bring myself to do it. No one will notice, only me, myself and I. I am the only one who is judging my DNF. I am the only one who reads my books, no one else does it for me. I should (and have to) do what it feels right to do for myself at the moment. And do not finish this book this time, maybe it'll be for another time. I just didn't feel a connection right now. If you read my long rant, thank you and I am wondering if you have ever felt the same pressure over yourself too. Is it difficult for you to DNF or not? ...more O livro come\u00e7a com a segunda vit\u00f3ria eleitoral de Margaret Thatcher em 1983 e termina em 1987, no ano em que acaba esse mesmo mandato. Nick Guest \u00e9 convidado a permanecer com os Fedden em Notting Hill, por ser amigo do filho mais velho Toby, tendo ambos frequentado a Universidade de Oxford. Na primeira parte da hist\u00f3ria Alan Hollinghurst foca-se sobretudo na vida amorosa de Nick. Jovem, atraente e homossexual assumido, Nick procura o seu ideal parceiro e tudo leva a crer que o encontra em Leo. P O livro come\u00e7a com a segunda vit\u00f3ria eleitoral de Margaret Thatcher em 1983 e termina em 1987, no ano em que acaba esse mesmo mandato. Nick Guest \u00e9 convidado a permanecer com os Fedden em Notting Hill, por ser amigo do filho mais velho Toby, tendo ambos frequentado a Universidade de Oxford. Na primeira parte da hist\u00f3ria Alan Hollinghurst foca-se sobretudo na vida amorosa de Nick. Jovem, atraente e homossexual assumido, Nick procura o seu ideal parceiro e tudo leva a crer que o encontra em Leo. Por\u00e9m, na segunda parte, j\u00e1 no ano de 1986, vemos que as coisas est\u00e3o radicalmente diferentes e s\u00f3 mais para o fim entendemos realmente porqu\u00ea. Hollinghurst entretece de forma brilhante temas como a epidemia do HIV, o consumo de drogas, doen\u00e7as mentais e o panorama pol\u00edtico. Existe uma mini-s\u00e9rie da BBC de 2006 com apenas tr\u00eas epis\u00f3dios que chegou a passar na RTP. ...more \u062a\u0627\u0631\u064a\u062e \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0621\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0635\u0644\u064a : 2009 2004. Another Booker Prize Winner I liked but couldn't love. Another year when the winner was less impressive than those it beat. And now it is 2011 and Alan Hollinghurst 's new book The Stranger's Child has been long listed for this year's prize and already he's the bookmakers' pick to win. He probably will, and maybe this time he'll deserve it. That's not fair of me, though. It's not like The Line of Beauty was a bad book. I enjoyed it well enough. The characters were engaging (I especially liked 2004. Another Booker Prize Winner I liked but couldn't love. Another year when the winner was less impressive than those it beat. And now it is 2011 and Alan Hollinghurst 's new book The Stranger's Child has been long listed for this year's prize and already he's the bookmakers' pick to win. He probably will, and maybe this time he'll deserve it. That's not fair of me, though. It's not like The Line of Beauty was a bad book. I enjoyed it well enough. The characters were engaging (I especially liked Catherine). Hollinghurst was fairly honest about his debt to Evelyn Waugh and others. It dealt with one of my favourite themes -- homosexuality -- in an honest and welcoming manner with minimum nostalgia. And I am always a sucker for the eighties, having been a teen myself at the time. But even with all of those positives, The Line of Beauty never transcended the better than average for me. I had trouble caring about the Feddens (except Catherine), and I didn't give a damn about their troubles. I spent much of the time wishing I was rereading Brideshead Revisited -- another book, oddly enough, that I find only better than average (there is much better Waugh to read) -- and wondering who the BBC was going to cast when they got around to making the book (which they did, as I knew they would). But worst of all, I never really liked Nick. I found him pathetic, to be honest, and even though I felt that Hollinghurst purposely presented him as unsympathetic, I couldn't make myself go along for the ride. Oh well, even if I couldn't love it, I did like it. I recommend it to anyone who likes quality writing, gender studies, books about the English upper crust, or a literary quality beach read. Still, I hope Hollinghurst's new one is better. His reputation has, so far, eclipsed his output -- at least for me. ...more Finally finished... the plot started to pick up -or rather, the author found the plot- in the last third of the book or so, but that was 300+ pages in. Painful. The writing was supposed to by lyrical and graceful, but it was just long-winded and poorly executed. For beautiful prose, this book tries but does not hit the mark. The author needed a better editor, one who loves the delete key. It may be because I have been reading this book sporadically over the past year or more, but at the end of t Finally finished... the plot started to pick up -or rather, the author found the plot- in the last third of the book or so, but that was 300+ pages in. Painful. The writing was supposed to by lyrical and graceful, but it was just long-winded and poorly executed. For beautiful prose, this book tries but does not hit the mark. The author needed a better editor, one who loves the delete key. It may be because I have been reading this book sporadically over the past year or more, but at the end of the story there were just too many characters and too much personal history to keep track of, and the story lost some of its effect because I couldn't remember who people were or why something was significant. I have no idea why this book won the Man Booker prize. The judging committee must have been horny (there's a good gay sex scene) or high (a lot of cocaine consumed throughout the book). ... Having a tough time getting through this one. The writing isn't speaking to me, the story is disjointed and the characters don't seem real enough to me. Finishing this book is like forcing down the rest of the vegetables you don't like. Going slowly and in short spurts. ...more I find it difficult to rate and review this book. There are aspects I thoroughly enjoyed (the themes, the writing, the wit) and others that I disliked equally strongly: the pacing, the clich\u00e9-characters; not even the main character, Nick, come alive for me, he stayed bland and somewhat aloof. Despite these negative aspects, the book provided an insightful view on the politics of the Thatcher-years, and (more importantly for me personally) it brought back the 'beginning' of AIDS in the early and I find it difficult to rate and review this book. There are aspects I thoroughly enjoyed (the themes, the writing, the wit) and others that I disliked equally strongly: the pacing, the clich\u00e9-characters; not even the main character, Nick, come alive for me, he stayed bland and somewhat aloof. Despite these negative aspects, the book provided an insightful view on the politics of the Thatcher-years, and (more importantly for me personally) it brought back the 'beginning' of AIDS in the early and mid-eighties. I remember that time vividly, the first articles appearing in the popular press in which the new disease was dubbed 'gay-cancer' & the first of my friends getting ill and dying. For those interested in these topics the book is certainly worthwile. ...more It took me a little while to get into this book, but when I did, I couldn't stop. For a little while I couldn't see what the point of the story was. The 1980s and especially Conservative politicians, and rich families weren't something that I thought interested me, but although that's the decade this book is set in, and that's the backdrop to what happens, it isn't about that at all. It's about thinking that you are accepted and welcomed, and then suddenly those that you thought loved you, turni It took me a little while to get into this book, but when I did, I couldn't stop. For a little while I couldn't see what the point of the story was. The 1980s and especially Conservative politicians, and rich families weren't something that I thought interested me, but although that's the decade this book is set in, and that's the backdrop to what happens, it isn't about that at all. It's about thinking that you are accepted and welcomed, and then suddenly those that you thought loved you, turning and suddenly you can see them for what they are. Hollinghurst's language is beautiful - nearly every line is a treat - and his writing so subtle that he lets the reader work things out all by themselves. Wonderful stuff. www.clairefuller.co.uk ...more I enjoyed this enormously. Hollinghurst is a great stylist and his debt to Henry James, suggested throughout (the protagonist is writing a thesis on 'The Master'), is always evident. Best of all is his subtle but uncompromising social satire: few of the characteres are particularly sympathetic but all are energetically realised and very believable. There are some terrific set-pieces: an aristocratic twenty-first birthday, awkward introductions of gay lovers to parents who don't know (or won't ad I enjoyed this enormously. Hollinghurst is a great stylist and his debt to Henry James, suggested throughout (the protagonist is writing a thesis on 'The Master'), is always evident. Best of all is his subtle but uncompromising social satire: few of the characteres are particularly sympathetic but all are energetically realised and very believable. There are some terrific set-pieces: an aristocratic twenty-first birthday, awkward introductions of gay lovers to parents who don't know (or won't admit)their son's sexuality, a London MP's unease on visiting his rural constituency and on having to take part in welly-throwing. 'The Line Of Beauty' paints a compelling picture of privileged life in 80s England -- but the privilege is precarious. Considering AIDS, the boom in cocaine use, and parlimentary scandal, this is nonetheless much more than mere social documentation. At times I felt the symbolism suggested by the title became a bit strained and occasionally I had the sense that Hollinghurst was overindulging in his ornate style. These are minor quibbles, however, about a book I was often reluctant to put down. ...more Nick is a young educated middle class man who sides himself with the family of a wealthy politician, and ingratiates himself into the family\u2019s life, taking occupancy in their son\u2019s old room. Set in the 1980\u2019s, Nick begins to share intimacies with the reading audience quite early on. He\u2019s recently come out to his closest friends (however not his family) and is beginning to live the life that he thinks a young gay man should live. He\u2019s answering advertisements in gay meet up magazines, and fulfill Nick is a young educated middle class man who sides himself with the family of a wealthy politician, and ingratiates himself into the family\u2019s life, taking occupancy in their son\u2019s old room. Set in the 1980\u2019s, Nick begins to share intimacies with the reading audience quite early on. He\u2019s recently come out to his closest friends (however not his family) and is beginning to live the life that he thinks a young gay man should live. He\u2019s answering advertisements in gay meet up magazines, and fulfilling the fantasies he bandies about as truthful experience. Fact and fiction blur together in the first few chapters of this book, as Nick looks for his footing in this new environment, and determines what type of man he wants to be. Nick is besotted with beauty. He holds his host family, the Feddens, in a hushed awe, as he observes the move about their daily life. Very much an outsider, Nick muses and contemplates his moves within the family unit as he inches closer to them all, however never quite achieves the intimacy he so greatly lusts after in this wealthy family. He admires their lives, their objects, their ailments and emotional vices, his pursuit of the things he believes are most truly beautiful is endless. However as the reader, we can take pleasure in the subtle satire of Hollinghurst\u2019s words. The obsession with Henry James, the family\u2019s nuances and idioms are very clear, and it\u2019s their neurotic behaviour that adds depth to the novel, more so than Nick\u2019s musings on art and his lust for perfection. Simply put, \u2018The Line of Beauty\u2019 draws comparisons to \u2018The Great Gatsby\u2019, with the \u2018other\u2019 being permitted to glimpse into the life of the well to do. However the novel holds more power in its delicate handling of the AIDS epidemic and social change that occurred in the 80\u2019s. This element of the novel provides a solemn filter for the rather frivolous happenings of the Feddens, and as we move closer to the climax, the juxtaposition of the privileged life and the bias towards the gay community, the narration takes on a more serious tone. Nick\u2019s disenchantment takes a while to become clear, but it is well worth the wait in order to see this character growth towards the end of the novel. ...more I'd been meaning to look into Hollinghurst for years, ever since I read a rave review of The Swimming Pool Library ... by a writer whose opinion I respected but whom I can't remember now. Martin Amis, maybe? I want to say John Updike, but given the controversy over his New Yorker review of Hollinghurst's later The Spell , I'm not sure I could handle the irony. In any case, I always look for Swimming Pool Library in book stores, but they never seem to carry it. So finally I got this instead, to I'd been meaning to look into Hollinghurst for years, ever since I read a rave review of The Swimming Pool Library ... by a writer whose opinion I respected but whom I can't remember now. Martin Amis, maybe? I want to say John Updike, but given the controversy over his New Yorker review of Hollinghurst's later The Spell , I'm not sure I could handle the irony. In any case, I always look for Swimming Pool Library in book stores, but they never seem to carry it. So finally I got this instead, to help assuage my sudden lust--inspired by Birdsong , of all books--for contemporary British novels with class concerns. (Which is... kind of every British novel ever, isn't it?) And I'm so glad I did. I'm still processing my opinion on the novel of a whole, but I know two things: (1) The majority of reviews praise this book for its social satire, but what I found most admirable was its understanding, at once keenly mocking and deeply humane, of the simple absurdity of being a person, in relationships with other people. In his self-consciousness, his self-pity, and his touching self-awareness, Nick was one of the most sympathetic characters I've encountered in a long time. (2) The final paragraph make take the prize for most beautiful passage of prose I've read in 2007 (thus far). I kept stopping halfway through--unwilling to reach its conclusion too soon--and going back, starting it over. I probably read it five times before I got all the way through and finally allowed the book to end for me. ...more The Line of Beauty \u2014is an elegant portrait of the rise and fall of a recent Oxford graduate playing at being privileged. \u2014is a coming out story of said grad who does not quite come of age. \u2014is a British period piece during the Thatcher reign. \u2014is an expos\u00e9 of useless pedantry \u2014shows that a social class, by any name, is a social class \u2014is reminiscent of Evelyn Waugh in prose and mood I read this after seeing the movie, so had pictures in my mind of the characters. It did not ruin the book for me. I lo The Line of Beauty \u2014is an elegant portrait of the rise and fall of a recent Oxford graduate playing at being privileged. \u2014is a coming out story of said grad who does not quite come of age. \u2014is a British period piece during the Thatcher reign. \u2014is an expos\u00e9 of useless pedantry \u2014shows that a social class, by any name, is a social class \u2014is reminiscent of Evelyn Waugh in prose and mood I read this after seeing the movie, so had pictures in my mind of the characters. It did not ruin the book for me. I loved this novel. But, I would suggest reading the book first so you can create your own images of the characters. My one question concerns the necessity off the cocaine abuse. Was this a necessary aspect of Nick's ultimate failure? Or was it characteristic of bored upper class Gay culture during the 1980s? ...more I'm mixed on this one. The characters are beautifully crafted, the era (1980s London) is brilliantly captured and the story well told-with a twist that changes the languid to the anguished. It was all very Henry James and I mean that with the greatest respect. I think what I struggled with is the utter depravity and despicability of these people- the pointlessness of their privileged, selfish lives. The sex wasn't shocking but it did get tiresome- I'd rather have learned more about the families. I'm mixed on this one. The characters are beautifully crafted, the era (1980s London) is brilliantly captured and the story well told-with a twist that changes the languid to the anguished. It was all very Henry James and I mean that with the greatest respect. I think what I struggled with is the utter depravity and despicability of these people- the pointlessness of their privileged, selfish lives. The sex wasn't shocking but it did get tiresome- I'd rather have learned more about the families. But all in all a fascinating return to the gay sexual revolution of the early 80s, the advent of AIDS, the cocaine-sniffing greed of the Thatcher era and the beginning of the end of a political career. ...more The preemptive assumption of this novel is that Nick is an innocent in the ways of the world--in regards to politics, finance, and romance. The author sets up this character to be seemingly sterotypically innocent describing that everything in life comes to him as a shock. Throughout the book you see that, although Nick is innocent to the \"evils\" that lurk behind the corporate power structure and elite of society, and never quite knows the proper thing to say, neither does anyone else. The dialo The preemptive assumption of this novel is that Nick is an innocent in the ways of the world--in regards to politics, finance, and romance. The author sets up this character to be seemingly sterotypically innocent describing that everything in life comes to him as a shock. Throughout the book you see that, although Nick is innocent to the \"evils\" that lurk behind the corporate power structure and elite of society, and never quite knows the proper thing to say, neither does anyone else. The dialogue in this book is scant, and you get the feeling that people are never truly communicating. Toward the end of the book, after the scandal has broken and their personal lives are reeling, people begin to let out their true feelings, and they still aren't saying the right things or understanding what the situation truly calls for. Throughout the novel Nick has an obsessive internal monologue inside his head, it comes off as irritating at first (so tedious with his constant self-doubts), but you then are lulled to a place where you wonder if that's what you seem like to others, if you come off as tedious and self-loathing. If you're not one who leans toward insecurity then you have to compare yourself to the bombastic and self-absorbed character of Gerald. What Hollinghurst has done is set up charicatures of life--the outsider, the power-hungry, the spoiled elite--and you learn from them that you don't want to be like them. The idea of charicatures is brought up throughout the book as the family has a gallery of photos in their kitchen, and the author reminds you that these people are frozen in time as their larger-than-life personalities. There are references to the effects of power and money on people, on the way they think and interact with one another. The manic/depressive daughter, Catherine, is led to be the narrator's true voice in this work, calling the upwardly mobile in Parliament \"Monsters\" rather than \"Ministers,\" and doing her part to call a spade a spade. Catherine ends up being the catalyst that sparks the climax of the book--igniting the public scandal merely by telling the truth. Although Hollinghurst (and the publishers of the book) want you to think this book is about the effects of power and wealth, it's more about the simple truths--are secrets personal or impersonal? The title of the book, The Line of Beauty, is referenced several times throughout the book, and Nick's quest for beauty in his surroundings and lovers is contantly used to reinforce this idea of what is true beauty. In one ironic use of the phrase Hollinghurst describes a line of cocaine (which is prolific through the last 2/3 of the book) as a line of beauty to Nick. Bringing the reader around, slowly but surely, to realize the age-old truth that beauty can be found anywhere that genuine experiences are had with genuine people. All in all this was a good book, definitely deserving of prestigious British award of The Man Booker Prize in 2004. I decided upon a B+ rating because the author gets a little heavy-handed, his voice slightly intrusive into the reader's process, and the book is written in such a specific time and a specific place that it looses a touch of its meaning to contemporary readers who didn't fully experience the decadence and pretensions of the 1980's. ...more Is it the particularity of things or their congruence with the universal that reveals their beauty? Hollinghurst\u2019s The Line of Beauty briefly calls into question for me whether being a heterosexual female is that great, once compared to the heady intimacy enjoyed by men who love men and the even their particular burdens. This is not an especially lurid book overall, but its sex scenes are minutely detailed and veer between the erotic and the unsettling. The way Nick Guest, our protagonist, assess Is it the particularity of things or their congruence with the universal that reveals their beauty? Hollinghurst\u2019s The Line of Beauty briefly calls into question for me whether being a heterosexual female is that great, once compared to the heady intimacy enjoyed by men who love men and the even their particular burdens. This is not an especially lurid book overall, but its sex scenes are minutely detailed and veer between the erotic and the unsettling. The way Nick Guest, our protagonist, assesses the bodies and propensities of every man he encounters hints at a world of connoisseurship and secret glances unknown to me. These secret glances echo the more multivalent glances of the characters who populate the novels of Henry James, and it is James\u2019s work that Nick takes as his topic as a graduate student at University College London. This love is one I share (indeed, I first read this book at the recommendation of a kind friend who referred to me as his favorite Jamesian) but this is a very precise kind of identification. Nick\u2019s love of James too seems grounded in the particular (he adores the funny and frustrating Jamesian diction that calls a waffle \u201can oblong farinaceous compound\u201d), but Nick himself is always trying to distill beauty to its essence. He finds what he (and apparently some theorist) terms the line of beauty in the ogee and, mockingly, in carefully divided lines of cocaine. His love of a certain curve of line appears everywhere; looking at a beloved man while listening to Beethoven at a piano recital, \u201cNick focused on him, so that everything else swam and [he] alone, or the bit of him [Nick] could see, throbbed minutely against the glossy double curve of the piano lid.\u201d The great gift of this book is the way it elides the distinction between the beauty of the particular \u2013the beloved face --and the universal \u2013the beloved face framed by the line of beauty-- because by the end, it becomes clear that whatever the limitations of one's experience, the beauty therein is only a particularized instance. That is to say, I will (fortunately) never live in Thatcher\u2019s England any more than I\u2019ll be a twentysomething gay Brit, but Nick\u2019s world and his sense that the answer, some formula we can barely articulate while surrounded by the banalities of ambition and snobbery, has nothing to do with the particular beloved scene as much as a \u201clove of the world that was shockingly unconditional.\u201d And this is a gift of perfect fiction, the total eclipse of identity. I just re-read this to make sure I could stand by the assertion I often make, that this is the best novel of the century so far. It really is. ...more Excellent in every respect. Reading this, I often felt to be in masterly hands: Hollinghurst has that completeness of play, that perfect union of the dramatic and the psychological. He does the scenic work of artfully describing characters' interplay of gestures and tones and tics, but is just as adept amidst the impalpables of sensibility, where the motives for their gestures and tones and tics are found to lie. Hollinghurst has superb senses for texture, heft, sound, movement. The old James ad Excellent in every respect. Reading this, I often felt to be in masterly hands: Hollinghurst has that completeness of play, that perfect union of the dramatic and the psychological. He does the scenic work of artfully describing characters' interplay of gestures and tones and tics, but is just as adept amidst the impalpables of sensibility, where the motives for their gestures and tones and tics are found to lie. Hollinghurst has superb senses for texture, heft, sound, movement. The old James advice to be one \"on whom nothing is lost\" remains central. My one quibble is with the plotting, and with the various burdens of plot-advancement each character must bear. The scandalous denouement, the shameful secret-spilling that wraps up the book, is brought about by Catherine, the sister of Nick's undergrad crush Toby. Toby is the predictable Hetero Golden Boy Athlete, dull and style-less and unconscious of his allure, but Catherine is worse--Hollinghurst is lazy, or seems to be at a loss, and just opts to make her a typical Hysterical Female, a manic-depressive Poor Little Rich Girl who does drugs, makes impertinent comments at the dinner table, and dates roguish unsuitables to shock her parents. Nick, and his lovers Leo and Wani are so much more complex creations, and so much more important to the book, that it didn't bother me that Catherine was so banal and badly done--just as long as she was irrelevant. But then Hollinghurst uses her to bring about the big stuff at the end--she does something so much more malicious and deranged than anything she's done before. Her behavior is so implausible because Hollinghurst has given us no sense of what deep issues with her father and family would have made her act as she does. One can't skimp on the psychology of a character if that psychology is what turns the plot of the novel. The book could have gotten along without so much of the Feddens, really. They provide the frame, the setting, and their small bag of traits and attitudes are sufficiently well shuffled and deployed as to make convincing characters--but Hollinghurst didn't really need to shift his focus back to them at the end. Wani's downward spiral, and Leo's death, are absorbing and heartbreaking enough. When I think of Leo on his bike I almost cry. ...more A beautifully written, ironic novel in the tradition of Forster and Waugh? Sign me up. Then imagine that they didn't have repressed/symbolic sex scenes ('we lay next to each other naked on towels, sunbathing' is replaced by 'then i slid my hand between his buttocks and fondled his balls'). I'm still on board. Cutting social satire as well? Lovely. Two things stop this being five-star worthy though: first, the joy I took in the first half at this not being an AIDS novels was dulled when it, well, A beautifully written, ironic novel in the tradition of Forster and Waugh? Sign me up. Then imagine that they didn't have repressed/symbolic sex scenes ('we lay next to each other naked on towels, sunbathing' is replaced by 'then i slid my hand between his buttocks and fondled his balls'). I'm still on board. Cutting social satire as well? Lovely. Two things stop this being five-star worthy though: first, the joy I took in the first half at this not being an AIDS novels was dulled when it, well, became an AIDS novel. Second, I'm still not sure what to do with Nick Guest, the novel's protagonist and guiding consciousness. I have a terrible feeling that we're meant to feel very sympathetic for him at the end, as he stands on a street and feels an unconditional love for the beauty of the world around him etc... Except that he's spent the last four years living with a Thatcherite Tory MP, having lots of sex, doing lots of drugs, being given lots of money, and frankly not caring about anything outside his own body, or the bodies of his lovers. He's sympathetic as an interesting, deeply flawed young man. He's not so sympathetic as moronic-mystical world-lover. So, as an investigation of the twin perils and attractions of the aesthetic life in one of the most repulsive historical moments of the post-war era, this is worth five stars. If the conclusion really does imply, as it seems to, that the perils aren't really that much of a concern, I'd knock off two stars for stupidity. But I'm giving Hollinghurst and his narrator the benefit of the doubt, in part because I like to pretend that writers of beautiful sentences also have intelligent thoughts. ...more It's been a while (and by a while, I don't mean a certain number of months, but a certain number of a certain kind of months) since I read this book. But I wanted to say at least this: The Line of Beauty contains some of the most beautiful passages in fiction I've read in, well, my life. The book is rich, thick and overflowing. Meanwhile things come across well-placed, timed, pertinent. It's gay fiction for gays who love reading (and not just for gays who love reading about gays, which is fine, bu It's been a while (and by a while, I don't mean a certain number of months, but a certain number of a certain kind of months) since I read this book. But I wanted to say at least this: The Line of Beauty contains some of the most beautiful passages in fiction I've read in, well, my life. The book is rich, thick and overflowing. Meanwhile things come across well-placed, timed, pertinent. It's gay fiction for gays who love reading (and not just for gays who love reading about gays, which is fine, but different, you know). A sneak peak. For its sheer poignancy, this passage wet my eyes: \"Proper queens, whom he applauded and feared and hesitantly imitated, seemed often to find something wrong with him, pretty and clever though he was. At any rate they didn't want to go to bed with him, and he was free to wander back, in inseparable relief and discouragement, to his inner theatre of sexual make-believe. There the show never ended and the actors never tired and a certain staleness of repetition was the only hazard. So the meeting with Leo, pursued through all the obstacles of the system which alone made it possible, was momentous for Nick. Pausing for a last hopeful gaze into the gilt arch of the hall mirror, which monitored all comings and goings, he found it reluctant to give its approval; when he pulled the door shut and set off along the street he felt giddily alone, and had to remind himself he was doing all this for pleasure. It had taken on the mood of a pointless dare.\" Ugh. Sit with it. Ugh. ...more FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE AWARD WINNING CAST REUNITED FOR 'THE LINE OF BEAUTY' ADAPTATION. (HOLLYWOOD, Nov 25, 2007) Academy Award winning producer Alan Ball announced today that he has reunited most of the cast of Six Feet Under for an HBO production of the award-winning English novel, \"The Line of Beauty.\" The 12 episode mini-series will tell the story of Nick Guest (\"David Fisher\"), a young homosexual who has managed to con his way into the hearts and minds of the conservative Fedden clan -- ambiti FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE AWARD WINNING CAST REUNITED FOR 'THE LINE OF BEAUTY' ADAPTATION. (HOLLYWOOD, Nov 25, 2007) Academy Award winning producer Alan Ball announced today that he has reunited most of the cast of Six Feet Under for an HBO production of the award-winning English novel, \"The Line of Beauty.\" The 12 episode mini-series will tell the story of Nick Guest (\"David Fisher\"), a young homosexual who has managed to con his way into the hearts and minds of the conservative Fedden clan -- ambitious US Senator Gerald Fedden (\"George Sibley\"), his Jew wife Rachel Fedden (\"Margaret Chenowith\"), young sexual deviant and manic-depressive Catherine (aka \"Puss\" or \"Meowmers\") Fedden (\"Claire Fisher\"), and Nick's Harvard classmate and muse, Toby Fedden (\"Nate Fisher\"). The Emmy-Award winning actress who played Ruth Fisher will rejoin her TV family in a role of comic relief as the batshit-insane matriarch Lady Partridge. The drama of Nick and the Feddens intertwines stories of secret love with political intrigue, translated into American English with gusto by the familiar ensemble cast -- including Nick's beloved black-and-stubbly Leo (\"Keith Charles\") and the Lebanese closeted coke-fiend Wani (\"Billy Chenowith\"); Wani's father, the also-closeted supermarket maven Bertrand (\"Olivier Castro-Staal\"); Catherine's boyfriends Russell (\"Russell\") and Jasper (\"Gabe\" aka 24's \"Milo\"); Gerald's totally hot secretary Penny Kent (\"Brenda Chenowith\"); the sexy and mysterious Brazilian caterer Tristao (\"Rico Diaz\"); and last-but-not-least, jolly queen and eventual congressman Polly Tompkins (\"Arthur\" aka The Office's \"Dwight\"). This American adaptation is cast in the suburbs of Washington DC, against the backdrop of Ronald Reagan's presidency and the emerging AIDS epidemic. Said Alan Ball: \"I just really enjoy any story with the word 'Beauty' in the title.\" ...more Set in the same time frame as Normal Heart , this book chronicles journey of a gay man between the years 1983-85. Hollinghurst's enchanting writing adds to the protagonist Nick's art centered lifestyle. There are many threads that Hollinghurst begins to weave that start with a bang but never takes them to an emotionally satisfying end. Its like an itch you cannot scratch with the sheer flatness in Nick's emotional repertoire. The Line of Beauty didn't appeal to me as much as I thought it would. Set in the same time frame as Normal Heart , this book chronicles journey of a gay man between the years 1983-85. Hollinghurst's enchanting writing adds to the protagonist Nick's art centered lifestyle. There are many threads that Hollinghurst begins to weave that start with a bang but never takes them to an emotionally satisfying end. Its like an itch you cannot scratch with the sheer flatness in Nick's emotional repertoire. The Line of Beauty didn't appeal to me as much as I thought it would. And that's disappointing. ...more The problem with criticising a book for what it fails to be is that you are no longer reviewing the book you've read but one you wanted to read. Nonetheless, there's a problem with The Line of Beauty : it's essentially a morality tale, in which Nick (Guest by name, guest by nature, yah?) slowly learns a hard lesson about the rich, namely if you\u2019re not one of them, basically you're just one of the staff. But the problem is, we have hundreds of pages of Nick's superficial self-delusion as he flies The problem with criticising a book for what it fails to be is that you are no longer reviewing the book you've read but one you wanted to read. Nonetheless, there's a problem with The Line of Beauty : it's essentially a morality tale, in which Nick (Guest by name, guest by nature, yah?) slowly learns a hard lesson about the rich, namely if you\u2019re not one of them, basically you're just one of the staff. But the problem is, we have hundreds of pages of Nick's superficial self-delusion as he flies too close to the sun attempting to ingratiate himself with these insincere, vacuous Tories, and when he is finally cast out of his Eden, the book abruptly ends, offering him no chance at a riposte or enlightenment. It's almost as if Hollingshurst himself is in awe of these wretched people too, and is as devastated as Nick is when it all goes south. ...more<---C>Alan Hollinghurst</---C>", "Title": "The Line of Beauty"},
