{"Comments": "There are so many people living in the world. We jostle up against each other in subway stations in Tokyo. We crowd into art galleries in Petersburg, vying for the best location to view the masterpieces on display. We take trains and planes around the world,<---M> with mountains</---M>, plains, rivers, valleys, and, above all, people rushing by us, in a blur. Holy Mountains, China Where is there a place for the individual in the midst of this overwhelming motion? Still from Koyaanisqatsi In his first novel, Gho There are so many people living in the world. We jostle up against each other in subway stations in Tokyo. We crowd into art galleries in Petersburg, vying for the best location to view the masterpieces on display. We take trains and planes around the world, with mountains, plains, rivers, valleys, and, above all, people rushing by us, in a blur. Holy Mountains, China Where is there a place for the individual in the midst of this overwhelming motion? Still from Koyaanisqatsi In his first novel, <+++>Ghostwritten</+++> , <---A>David Mitchell</---A> innovatively explores our quest for understanding, for meaning, for connection, in the crowded isolation that makes up human life in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. This is a novel that explores big questions: is our life ruled by chance? Do the coincidences and parallels that help to connect people to one another have a deeper significance, or are they simply akin to the random effects of a ricocheting pinball? What is our connection to the planet -- is there a story that we can discover to explain our origins and, perhaps, point our way to the future? And in the end, are our lives and deaths marked by continuity and connection with others, or are we truly isolated, even when surrounded by so many others? Mitchell\u2019s novel is remarkable, not only because he explores such crucial questions, but also because he provides such poignant depictions of individuals and their settings. He structures the novel as a series of interconnecting chapters, each taking place in a different location, and each centering on a specific individual, from a cult member in Japan, to an employee in a jazz music store in Tokyo, to a woman selling tea in the shadow of one of China\u2019s holy mountains, to a ghost or spirit moving from human host to human host in search of understanding of its origins. Although I have heard others describe these chapters as linked short stories, Mitchell\u2019s careful attention to connecting themes, characters, and episodes provides them with a sense of coherence that gets stronger the further the reader gets into the book. Making Your Place/Marking Your Place Tokyo Mitchell imbues the novel with a remarkable sense of place. He has a particular interest in representing city life in all its diversity. For example, in the Tokyo chapter, Satoru describes Tokyo as follows: \u201cTwenty million people live and work in Tokyo. It\u2019s so big that nobody really knows where it stops. It\u2019s long since filled up the plain, and now it\u2019s creeping up the mountains to the west and reclaiming land from the bay in the east.<---F> The city never stops rewriting itself</---F>. In the time one street guide is produced, it\u2019s already become out of date. It\u2019s a tall city, and a deep one, as well as a spread-out one. Things are always moving below you, and above your head. All these people, flyovers, cars, walkways, subways, offices, tower blocks, power cables, pipes, apartments, it all adds up to a lot of weight. You have to do something to stop yourself caving in, or you just become a piece of flotsam or an ant in a tunnel. In smaller cities people can use the space around them to insulate themselves, to remind themselves of who they are. Not in Tokyo. You just don\u2019t have the space, not unless you\u2019re a company president, a gangster, a politician or the Emperor. You\u2019re pressed against people body to body in the trains, several hands gripping each strap on the metro trains. Apartment windows have no view but other apartment windows. No, in Tokyo you have to make your place inside your head.\u201d (37) In this passage, Satoru conveys one of the central questions of <+++>Ghostwritten</+++> : how can humans carve out a place for themselves that provides them with a sense of identity and belonging, in the face of the postmodern weight which threatens to bury us? London Mitchell\u2019s sense of place is so strong within the novel that he often represents cities almost as human characters. For example, Marco notes, \u201cThe top of the hill. Breathe in, look at that view, and breathe out! Quite a picture, isn\u2019t it! Old Man London, out for the day.... Italians give their cities sexes, and they all agree that the sex for a particular city is quite correct, but none of them can explain why. I love that. London\u2019s middle-aged and male, respectably married but secretly gay. I know its overlapping towns like I know my own body. The red brick parts around Chelsea and Pimlico, Battersea Power Station like an upturned coffee table.... The grimy estates down Vauxhall way. Green Park. I map the city by trigonometrical shag points. Highbury is already Katy Forbes. Putney is Poppy, and India of course, not that I shag India, she\u2019s only five. Camden is Baggins the Tarantula. \u2026\u201d In spite of this personification, London still poses the danger of engulfing its residents: \u201cA city is a sea that you lose things in. You only find things that other people have lost.\u201d (282) Hong Kong London is a Language There are many ways that Mitchell\u2019s characters attempt to make their place. One is through a quest to explain experience and existence through language, which extends beyond humans to include cities and places as well. In the London chapter, Marco notes, \u201cLondon is a language. I guess all places are.\u201d (269) Throughout Ghostwritten , Mitchell returns repeatedly to the theme of language -- and its limitations. As the spirit notes in the Mongolia chapter, \u201cOnce or twice I\u2019ve tried to describe transmigration to the more imaginative of my human hosts. It\u2019s impossible. I know eleven languages, but there are some tunes that language cannot play. When another human touches my host, I can transmigrate. The ease of the transfer depends on the mind I am transmigrating into, and whether negative emotions are blocking me. The fact that touch is a requisite provides a clue that I exist on some physical plane, however sub-cellular or bio-electrical. There are limits. For example, I cannot transmigrate into animals, even primates: if I try the animal dies. It is like an adult\u2019s inability to climb into children\u2019s clothes. I\u2019ve never tried a whale. But how it feels, this transmigration, how to describe that! Imagine a trapeze artist in a circus, spinning in emptiness. Or a snooker ball lurching around the table. Arriving in a strange town after a journey through turbid weather. Sometimes language can\u2019t even read the music of meaning.\u201d (158-159) Given the limitations of language, some of Mitchell\u2019s characters gravitate to music instead, which features prominently throughout the novel. Satoru notes, \u201cMy place comes into existence through jazz. Jazz makes a fine place. The colours and feelings there come not from the eye but from sounds. It\u2019s like being blind but seeing more. This is why I work here in Takeshi\u2019s shop. Not that I could ever put that into words.\u201d (38) Marco is a drummer in a band called The Music of Chance, named after Paul Auster\u2019s novel. And in the apocalyptic chapter \u201cThe Night Train,\u201d DJ Bat Segundo\u2019s choice of music provides a soundtrack for the critical questions that arise when New York is faced with the prospect of its destruction. Ghosts, Spirits, Doubles, and the Human Spirit Throughout the novel, Mitchell explores the limitations of physical boundaries. In spite of the walls and buildings and other physical barriers that separate us from each other, is there any indication that people transcend the physical? That physical boundaries are permeable, and that people can interact the most meaningfully with spiritual elements in their earthbound lives? In some cases, the ghosts appear in forms familiar to Western readers. In the Hong Kong section, Neal Brose describes the ghost that shared an apartment with him and his wife Katy: \u201cUnless you\u2019ve lived with a ghost, you can\u2019t know the truth of it. You assume that morning, noon and night, you\u2019re walking around obsessed, fearful and waiting for the exorcist to call. It\u2019s not really like that. It\u2019s more like living with a very particular cat. For the last few months I\u2019ve been living with three women. One was a ghost, who is now a woman. One was a woman, who is now a ghost. One is a ghost, and always will be. But this isn\u2019t a ghost story: the ghost is in the background, where she has to be. If she was in the foreground she\u2019d be a person.\u201d (93) In other cases, Mitchell describes spirits that he models from Eastern traditions, as seen in my two favorite sections of the novel, \u201cThe Holy Mountain\u201d and \u201cMongolia.\u201d In \u201cThe Holy Mountain\u201d, the unnamed tea shack lady describes her living in the shadow of Mount Emei with ghosts and a spirit-laden tree as her companions over decades of hardship: \u201cIn the misty dusk an old woman came. She laboured slowly up the stairs to where I lay, wondering how I could defend myself if the Warlord\u2019s Son called again on his way down. \u2018Don\u2019t worry,\u2019 she said. \u2018The Tree will protect you. The Tree will tell you when to run, and when to hide.\u2019 I knew she was a spirit because I only heard her words after her lips had finished moving, because the lamplight shone through her, and because she had no feet. I knew she was a good spirit because she sat on the chest at the end of the bed and sang a lullaby about a coracle, a cat, and the river running round.\u201d (113) Mount Emei, China Tea shack, Mount Emei, China In the chapter on Mongolia, Mitchell memorably presents a noncorpum , or a spirit that travels from human host to human host, as his central character. This spirit clearly differentiates itself from its human hosts: \u201cI have my gifts: I am apparently immune to age and forgetfulness. I possess freedom beyond any human understanding of the world. But my cage is all my own, too. I am trapped in one waking state of consciousness. I have never found any way to sleep, or dream. And the knowledge I most desire eludes me: I have never found the source of the story I was born with, and I have never discovered whether others of my kind exist.\u201d (165) Trans-Mongolian Railroad At the same time, the spirit does acknowledge some similarities between himself and some of the humans it encounters: \u201cBackpackers are strange. I have a lot in common with them. We live nowhere, and we are strangers everywhere. We drift, often on a whim, searching for something to search for. We are both parasites: I live in my hosts\u2019 minds, and sift through his or her memories to understand the world. Caspar\u2019s breed live in a host country that is never their own, and use its culture and landscape to learn, or stave off boredom. To the world at large we are both immaterial and invisible. We chew the secretions of solitude. My incredulous Chinese hosts who saw the first backpackers regarded them as quite alien entities. Which is exactly how humans would regard me. All minds pulse in a unique way, just as every lighthouse in the world has a unique signature. Some minds pulse consistently, some erratically. Some are lukewarm, some are hot. Some flare out, some are very nearly not there. Some stay on the fringe, like quasars. For me, a roomful of animals and humans is like a roomful of suns, of differing magnitudes and colours, and gravities.\u201d (153-154) As the noncorpum continues on its quest for its origin stories, it demonstrates another profound similarity with humans -- the need to anchor identity, and future, in one's beginnings. This parallel helps to provide this chapter with its strong resonance and significance -- in spite of the unfamiliar trappings of this story, the central theme within it is all too familiar to human readers. Central Mongolia Quantum Theory, Chain Reactions, Chance, and the Human Zoo In the concluding chapters of Ghostwritten , Mitchell develops the questions of the role of chance in governing people\u2019s lives, as he describes the experiences of Mo Muntervary, a quantum physicist appalled by the apparent uses to which the US government is putting her work. She attempts to buy time to address her concerns by returning to her home, Clear Island, Ireland. Throughout this chapter, Mo intersperses details of her return to the island with her memories of her work on this project, and her reflections on the role of quantum physics in explaining human life and cauastion: \u201cThe strong force that stops the protons of a nucleus hurtling away from one another; the weak force that keeps the electrons from crashing into the protons; electromagnetism, which lights the planet and cooks dinner; and gravity, which is the most down to Earth. From before the time the universe was the size of a walnut to its present diameter, these four forces have been the statute book of matter, be it the core of Sirius or the electrochemical ducts of the brains of students in the lecture theatre at Belfast. Bored, intent, asleep, dreaming, in receding tiers. Chewing pencils or following me. Matter is thought, and thought is matter. Nothing exists that cannot be synthesised.\u201d (335-336) Mo\u2019s references to the modern world as a zoo relate to the novel\u2019s penultimate section, in which Bat Segundo, a late night DJ and talk show host strikes up a prolonged conversation with an entity that refers to itself as the Zookeeper. The Zookeeper demonstrates an eerie omniscience into human life and devastation throughout the planet, while also discussing the profound limits of its omniscience in keeping human life in balance. I will leave it to you as a reader to discover how Mitchell develops these themes. Clear Island, Ireland The Breath Mitchell threads references to a breath throughout Ghostwritten . The breath provides a strong sense of continuity, as well as raising the question of which entities are threading through the novel, surrounding the human characters. Is there an impermeable boundary between them? Are these entities observers, or do they have a more crucial role to play in causing events to happen -- or preventing events? In the end, are they as human as any of us living in the zoo? ...more \u201dThere is truth, and then there is Being Truthful. Being Truthful is just one more human activity, along with chatting up women, ghostwriting, selling drugs, running a country, designing radiotelescopes, parenting, drumming, and shoplifting. All are susceptible to adverbs. You can be truthful well or badly, frankly or slyly, and you can choose to do it and not to do it\u2026. Truth\u2019s indifference is immutable.\u201d Have you ever had anyone say to you...Just tell me the truth? So I ponder what someone wants \u201dThere is truth, and then there is Being Truthful. Being Truthful is just one more human activity, along with chatting up women, ghostwriting, selling drugs, running a country, designing radiotelescopes, parenting, drumming, and shoplifting. All are susceptible to adverbs. You can be truthful well or badly, frankly or slyly, and you can choose to do it and not to do it\u2026. Truth\u2019s indifference is immutable.\u201d Have you ever had anyone say to you...Just tell me the truth? So I ponder what someone wants when they ask that. Do they want the truth as it was last week, as it is today, or what I think it will be tomorrow? Truth mutates like a gecko lizard changing to fit each new environment, each new question. Truth evolves, devolves, with each added experience. The new hemorrhages into the old. Memories fade and are overlaid by new recollections of old events. The good or the bad are enhanced, magnified so large that they hide the very elements that kept a memory anchored near the site of \u201ctruth\u201d. As long as we all agree that a memory is only a version of many truths we will get along just fine. \u201dThe act of memory is an act of ghostwriting.\u201d I don\u2019t know if David Mitchell pulled the wool over a publisher\u2019s eyes or he simply convinced them that they could publish these short stories and call them a novel. I was into the third section (short story) when I realized exactly what this young Brit had accomplished. Sure all the stories interweave by way of these sometimes very tenuous crossovers, they are the gossamer that drapes around the \u201ctruth\u201d and can convince the reader that...yes, this truly is a novel. After all short story collections are what successful writers publish when their next novel is proving to be rather tricky. Generally, publishers don\u2019t publish short story collections for a writer\u2019s first book. There is a good reason for that because the taste of the public has moved away from short stories. Short story collections without a readership established by a writer\u2019s novels tend to go unloved, unread, ignored, and are quickly pulped/remaindered. If the writer rallies back from the uppercut to the jaw and the flurry of punches to his stomach the public handed him on his first book and writes a novel to great acclaim, that orphaned short story collection becomes a much sought after collectible. \u201dThe strong force that stops the protons of a nucleus hurtling away from one another; the weak force that keeps the electrons from crashing into the protons; electromagnetism, which lights the planet and cooks dinner; and gravity, which is the most down-to-earth. From before the time the universe was the size of a walnut to its present diameter, these four forces have been the statute book of matter, be it the core of Sirius or the electrochemical ducts of the brains of students in the lecture theater of Belfast. Bored, intent, asleep, dreaming, in receding tiers. Chewing pencils or following me. Matter is thought, and thought is matter. Nothing exists that cannot be synthesized. \u201d So, really that is what Mitchell has done. He has combined these stories into a coherent whole. He has synthesized a short story collection into a novel. My tendency is to review this novel like I would a short story collection by talking about each tale separately or highlighting a few of my favorites, but then that would really be \u201cletting the cat out of the bag\u201d wouldn\u2019t it? I liked all the sections of this novel, some I liked immediately, and some grew on me as Mitchell spun out the elements of manipulation. My favorite is the one set in Tokyo set around a tenor saxophonist named Satoru who works in a record store. We like it when a writer writes about us or more precisely about someone we identify with. We appreciate meeting characters that are very different from us, but if \u201ctruth\u201d be known we like the characters that are most like us the best. I don\u2019t think it is possible to work in a record store or a bookstore without being a romantic. How else could someone work for such low pay without believing what they are doing is larger than what it seems? These professions are redolent with mythology as they provide opportunity for something truly grand to happen at any moment. Like a girl, THE girl walking into the shop. \u201dShe was so real, the others were cardboard cutouts beside her. Real things had happened to her to make her how she was, and I wanted to know them, and read them, like a book.\u201d But she left, evaporated, sucked back into the universe. \u201dI couldn\u2019t remember accurately what she looked like. Smooth skin, highish cheekbones, narrowish eyes. Like a Chinese empress. I didn\u2019t really think of her face when I thought of her. She was just there, a color that didn't have a name yet. The idea of her.\u201d She becomes so mystical, so constructed out of straw, that his own existence becomes contingent on her returning. He can\u2019t be who he is suppose to be until the moment she walks back into the shop. \u201dThe her that lived in her looked out through my eyes, through my eyes, and at the me that lives in me.\u201d His clock winds back up. There is a terrorist in this book, a man that hates the world, wants to change it, but in reality he is so angry, so disassociated, that he really wants to crack it in half and let the sun eat the pieces. There is a ghost that haunts a stockbroker, a man proud of his ability to compartmentalize, but as his life destabilizes he discovers that logic is illogical. There is a woman living on the Holy Mountain in China who watches her life diverge because of the cowardice of people who should be mandated to protect her. In Mongolia we spend time seeing the world through the eyes of a disembodied spirit with no memories of it\u2019s own to help guide the present or the future. \u201dWhy am I the way I am? I have no genetic blueprint. I have had no parents to teach me right from wrong. I have had no teachers. I had no nurture, and I possess no nature. But I am discreet and conscientious, a nonhuman humanist.\u201d A spirit that becomes more human than the humans he inhabits when it is faced with the ultimate sacrifice. In St. Petersburg we get to hang out with an art curator at the Hermitage Museum. A concubine, a manipulator of men: \u201dMargarita Latunsky plays men like a master violinist. When I want something from a woman I get angry. When I want something from a man I pout.\u201d Despite those natural god given abilities or maybe because of them she falls in love and hangs her dreams on the wrong man. In London we meet a womanizer named Marco who is a ghostwriter or whatever he needs to be if it will get a woman to fall in bed with him. He is the member of a band called The Music of Chance , a nod to the New York author Paul Auster. He is in love with a woman named Poppy, but he can\u2019t give up the randomness of his life to form an even number with her. He wants the roulette wheel to spin every day giving him a chance for something bigger. We meet a physicist who has escaped to her homeland on Cape Clear Island. She finds it ironic that like a criminal she can\u2019t help but go where she will be found. She quit being a member of a think tank when she discovered her research was being used to make weapons. She hopes they will let her go after all she is in her forties. \u201dNobody\u2019s going to kidnap me. Look at me. I\u2019m middle-aged. Only Einstein, Dirac and Feynman made major contributions in their forties.\u201d And now Muntervary. There is also The Zookeeper, an artificial intelligence who escaped his military caretakers, and instead of trying to destroy the world as we have been lead to believe any rogue IA will attempt to do by the blockbuster movies out of Hollywood, is actually determined to do the opposite. The Zookeeper is trying to live up to his name by keeping the animals with animus separated. The stones they wish to throw must never be allowed to launch. So if each story is a pearl we could fashion them into earrings, bracelets or rings and they will be beautiful, but if we want them to dazzle we should string them on a necklace where each will enhance the rest. Maybe, if that is the case, we should call this a novel. In the future when some linguist/scientist/reader is trying to piece together who we were before we evolved into more perfect beings, the histories will give them a body, but it will be the novels that will put blood in our veins, send electrical impulses to our nerves, and bring air in to our lungs. Our \u201clies\u201d will tell our story the best. \u201dWho is blowing on the nape of my neck?\u201d If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more This book blew my mind. This book also ripped out my heart and stomped on it and then stuffed the battered organ back in my chest cavity, breathed feathery soft on it and set it pumping again. It was that good, that moving, that inspiring. It brought tears to my eyes on more than one occasion and left me feeling that wonderful mind expanding, worldview shifting buzz that only art (or sex, or chocolate) of the highest order can accomplish. I feel subtlety changed by this book. First off, it engag This book blew my mind. This book also ripped out my heart and stomped on it and then stuffed the battered organ back in my chest cavity, breathed feathery soft on it and set it pumping again. It was that good, that moving, that inspiring. It brought tears to my eyes on more than one occasion and left me feeling that wonderful mind expanding, worldview shifting buzz that only art (or sex, or chocolate) of the highest order can accomplish. I feel subtlety changed by this book. First off, it engaged my intellect. Its intricate puzzle of loosely connected stories kept my mind sharp to each twist and turning, looking intently for the next incident that would tie disparate characters, locales and chronology together. Mitchell has first rate literary gifts, he juggles more balls than most writers would even dream of-and to go with that metaphor he\u2019s so ludicrously daring and audacious in his choices that he\u2019s more akin to those lunatic jugglers who work with sharp, flaming objects then some tired clown with three fuzz-faded tennis balls. The fact that this was a first novel demands even more respect. Mitchell mixes philosophical concerns of the greatest gravitas(death, reincarnation, identity, creativity and theft, corporate greed, freedom vs. security, class agonies and the oppression of women ) with the old-fashioned capacity to tell a good story in unobtrusive, yet supple prose. It has come to my attention that Mitchell isn\u2019t everybody\u2019s cup of tea. Some of my good pals here think he is a cold literary technician, empty of the wisdom he attempts to convey in this book. I couldn\u2019t disagree more. Along with his intricate plotting and deft use of language, is a wonderful (wonder-filled?), compassionate view of the world that is inclusive, empty of petty judgment and wise to the hardscrabble shit of earthly existence, the commiserate joys of physical joining be it loin to loin, heart to heart, or in mere comradely shoulder to shoulder grinding through the days and the inevitability and sometimes desirability of that great equalizer, death. So again back to the heart, the bruised organ I mentioned at the beginning of my review. I think I\u2019m much more a man of the heart than a man of the head. I feel way too much. And I think maybe my loving of this book night be just as likely because I\u2019m a rube and a sucker not because I\u2019m a greater intellect than those that hated it. Maybe they are smarter than me. Probably I\u2019m okay with that. Maybe I liked it because I\u2019m foolish and open and willing to look for something, in this case an intricate Buddhist-inspired diamond-like view of humanity and its sufferings that showed that we are all connected, beyond boundaries of country, time, the accidents of birth and family, even to and beyond the gates of death. Even though my conception of a personal God has faded to practical non-existence I am still pulled to joy-filled myths of individual lives having meaning, and there being a benevolent seed of being at our centers and at the center of the universe. And maybe I\u2019m wrong. And maybe none of this matters. And maybe this book is just an intricate con-job. And maybe that is okay too. But this book made me happy. And I think you should give it a try. ...more Starstruck Lover David Mitchell is a five star author and this, his first novel, is a five star achievement. I think. I\u2019ve been lucky to read most of his novels in chronological order as they\u2019ve been released. Joining Goodreads has presented an opportunity to re-read and review them. I still adhere to the rating, even if it emerges that I have a few question marks about some of his stylistic choices. What this reveals is that a highly competent author, even with his first novel, doesn\u2019t have to writ Starstruck Lover David Mitchell is a five star author and this, his first novel, is a five star achievement. I think. I\u2019ve been lucky to read most of his novels in chronological order as they\u2019ve been released. Joining Goodreads has presented an opportunity to re-read and review them. I still adhere to the rating, even if it emerges that I have a few question marks about some of his stylistic choices. What this reveals is that a highly competent author, even with his first novel, doesn\u2019t have to write their novel my way in order to earn five stars. Sometimes, it has to be me, the reader, who has to adjust their preconceptions and criteria. The Authorial Choice Mitchell\u2019s choice of structure announces that he wants to do things his own way. The first time I read the novel, I read it quickly and appreciatively. The second time around, I read it much more deliberately and slowly. I guess I swung from pleasure to difficulty and back again. So I had to work out why. Linear Narratives Most novels contain one narrative voice relating one narrative within a linear timeframe. A linear narrative fits neatly with the way we think we process time, space and action (even if we don\u2019t actually process them this way). Within this framework, the author is omniscient, God-like, a ghost in the machine, making it all happen, putting things in, leaving things out, according to some overarching intelligent design. The extent to which any particular author plays with this structure determines the extent of their modernism. Narrative Voices Mitchell describes \"Ghostwritten\" as a novel in nine parts (although there are in fact ten \"chapters\", the last of which links back to the first). Without this assertion, it presents itself as nine apparently disconnected short stories told in the first person. The narrators are different, the narratives are different. None of them appears to follow any traditional narrative arc. They do not appear to have a beginning, a middle and an end. The writing is beautiful, word-perfect, but, although we know where they are situated or positioned, we don\u2019t know the direction they\u2019re heading. Mitchell seems to be breaking all of the rules. Why is he doing this? Does he achieve his goal? Does the achievement of his goal make for an enjoyable reading experience for us? The Reader\u2019s Challenge Mitchell\u2019s description of the book as a novel initiates an interesting dynamic. I started to look for connections between the parts. Only, because I didn\u2019t know the purpose of the parts, I didn\u2019t know where to look for clues. Were they in the characters, the places, the events? Instead of being frustrated with the lack of obvious clues, I started to read the novel differently. Everything was a potential clue, nothing was unimportant. Mitchell forced me to enter a hyper-reading space. He turned me into a literary detective with a magnifying glass and a notebook. Fortunately, as I read on and found clues, he delivered on the implied promise that the parts would become a whole. Bit by bit, he and I, the writer and the reader, assembled something of artistic integrity. The integrity was there all along, only Mitchell made me look, so that I might find it. What I came to appreciate was that he doesn\u2019t make everything obvious, he makes you think about what he has written, in order to understand. Write Around the World The chapters are set in different parts of the world. They start in Japan, move their way through Hong Kong, China and Mongolia, traverse the continent to Russia, England and Ireland, then make an Atlantic Crossing to New York, before coming full circle to Tokyo in the tenth chapter, effectively a reprise of the first chapter (hence, in a way, there are nine stories in ten chapters). Mitchell appears to be familiar with all of these places (although he hadn\u2019t been to New York at the time of writing the book). His writing is knowledgeable, informed, worldly, cosmopolitan. He writes credibly with multiple voices within diverse worldviews. His concerns are global, pluralistic, open-minded. He doesn\u2019t write solely within a western framework. He is equally interested in both West and East, in fact, he reverses the traditional order of what he describes as \u201cOrientalist\u201d concerns, by starting in the East and working his way West, in the same way that we perceive the transit of the Sun across the sky. He joins dots on a map, in the process creating a non-linear zigzag around the globe. Multiple Faces In each place, there is a first person narrator, a face attached to the place. Here is a short Dramatis Personae (the people through whom the drama is performed or channeled): Okinawa: Quasar (Cult Member turned Subway Bomber) Tokyo: Satoru (Jazz Music Sales Clerk and Saxophonist) Hong Kong: Neal Brose (Lawyer/Banker) Holy Mountain (Mount Emei): Unnamed (Tea Shack Lady) Mongolia: Noncorpum (Disembodied Spirit or Sentient) St Petersburg : Margarita Latunksy/Margot (Concubine and Art Gallery Attendant at the Hermitage) London: Marco (Ghost-writer and Drummer) Clear Island: Dr Mo Muntervary (Quantum Physicist) Night Train, New York: Bat Segundo (Late Night Talk Show Host) David Mitchell captures these faces and places at a particular time, some of them in full flight, in a snapshot that he then places in the album that becomes his novel. Multiple Facets In Mitchell\u2019s later novel, \"Black Swan Green\", he used two images of the same boy at different stages of life. When I first read it, I didn\u2019t quite appreciate the aesthetic relationship between the two images. I felt that they had been merely juxtaposed without being connected or interwoven. However, here, the interconnection is fundamental to the success of the novel. The connections are not just passive, static resemblances of two or more like objects, they are active, dynamic intersections. The stories are fragmented but cohesive, individual but still collective. Individually, each picture is a separate vignette. Collectively, they form pieces of the one mosaic or facets of the one diamond. Behind each face or facet is the shared body of the diamond. Perhaps, they are symbolic of individuals within society and nations within a new world order. Ten Stories High Just as people might be multiple facets of the one diamond, the one object of greatest abstract value, the diamond, is the story that is told through us, through individuals. I\u2019ll call these meta-stories the Story or Stories. There\u2019s an element of determinism or fatalism in this concept. Mitchell uses his novel to explore this fatalism. In his opinion (or the opinion of his characters), we are not necessarily in charge of our own lives. They are being dictated by DNA, fate, external forces. These forces dictate the story of Life: \"The world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.\" (p386) The Stories, the structure and content of stories, are disembodied forces. The novel speculates that they could be ghosts, spirits, if not one God, then possibly multiple gods. Whatever its nature, there is another presence involved in the process of living and story-telling. I will call this other presence an Other. Ghosts Who Transmigrate In the stories set in Honk Kong, Holy Mountain and Mongolia, there are ghosts or disembodied spirits (call them sentient beings) that temporarily reside in humans (their \"hosts\"). This might sound like the stuff of fantasy. However, Mitchell discusses them in such realistic terms that you suspend disbelief. He achieves this in part by allowing one story to be narrated by one of the ghosts. It has its own \"I\" or self, which is perplexed that it can only reside in a human and must share the human body with other presences. It is even forced to question its own primacy: \"As my infancy progressed, I became aware of another presence in \u2018my\u2019 body. Stringy mists of colour and emotion condensed into droplets of understanding\u2026I had no idea why these images came when they did. Like being plugged into a plotless movie... \"Slowly, I felt an entity that was not me generating sensations, which only later could I label loyalty, love, anger, ill-will. I watched this other clarify, and pull into focus. I began to be afraid. I thought it was the intruder! I thought the mind of my first host was the cuckoo\u2019s egg that would hatch and drive me out. So one night, while my host was asleep, I tried to penetrate this other presence\u2026I discovered my mistake... I had been the intruder.\" A Ghost in Search of Self Through Its Stories It is not clear how many of these sentient beings there are. It is quite possible that there might be less than ten. The one we become familiar with is on a quest to discover the origins of the Stories that it embodies. In a way, it has developed a self and a self-consciousness separate from the Stories, and it wants to understand itself. It is seeking its own Creation Myth. By learning the source of the Stories, it will presumably discover whether it has a Maker and perhaps whether there are other Stories (although neither is expressly stated as its goal). It\u2019s possible that some of this self-consciousness might have derived from inhabiting humans: \"Slowly I walked down the path trodden by all humans, from the mythic to the prosaic. Unlike humans, I remember the path.\" Still, there is a difference: the Ghost is the Story or the Myth, the human is the individual enactment or performance of the role in a specific time, place and context. The Ghostwriter\u2019s Dilemma Some of the dramatic arc concerns the growing human awareness of these Ghosts. Marco, an actual 30-something ghostwriter based in London starts to realise the presence of an Other in relation to his own work, the memoirs of a gay Hungarian Jewish raconteur, Alfred Kopf: \"I couldn\u2019t get to sleep afterwards, worrying about the possible endings of the stories that had been started. Maybe that\u2019s why I\u2019m a ghostwriter. The endings have nothing to do with me.\" (p279) His publisher, Tim Cavendish, tells him: \"We\u2019re all ghostwriters, my boy. And it\u2019s not just our memories. Our actions, too. We all think we\u2019re in control of our lives, but really they\u2019re pre-ghostwritten by forces around us.\" (p296) Everything has been predetermined. We are just characters in someone else\u2019s story. We are written by ghosts, ghostwritten. Somebody else is doing the typing. We are just the keys in their typewriter. At the most superficial level, Marco realises that this undermines his ability to be creative, to exercise Free Will in his own work: \"You know the real drag about being a ghostwriter? You never get to write anything that beautiful. And even if you did, nobody would ever believe it was you.\" (p292) The Ghost Who Writes It isn\u2019t all just serious stuff. There are myriad opportunities for metafiction, parody and humour. An earlier character remarks: \"For a moment I had an odd sensation of being in a story that someone was writing, but soon that sensation too was being swallowed up.\" (p56) Marco\u2019s band (well, a \"loose musical cooperative\", really) is dubbed \"The Music of Chance\", after a novel by \"that New York bloke\", Paul Auster. Marco even develops a highly personalized theory that explains the role of fate and chance in our lives. He calls it the \"Chance versus Fate Videoed Sports Match Analogy\u201d\": \"When the players are out there the game is a sealed arena of interbombarding chance. But when the game is on video then every tiniest action already exists. \"The past, present and future exist at the same time: all the tape is there, in your hand. \"There can be no chance, for every human decision and random fall is already fated. \"Therefore, does chance or fate control our lives? \"Well, the answer is as relative as time. If you\u2019re in your life, chance. Viewed from the outside, like a book you\u2019re reading, it\u2019s fate all the way.\" (p292) Quantum Cognition Mitchell elaborates on some of these themes through Mo, an expert in artificial intelligence and \"quantum cognition\": http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_... . She describes the mechanism of memory in the following terms: \"Memories are their own descendants masquerading as the ancestors of the present.\" (p326) If memories can be conveyed by biological matter, she believes she can build artificial intelligence that can be conveyed by non-biological matter: \"Matter is thought, and thought is matter. Nothing exists that cannot be synthesized.\" (p344) She achieves this with a sentient called \"Quancog\", which has major security value for the United States security and military machine. In a way, just as the novel is concerned with the extent to which the fate of humanity is determined by a \"ghost\", Mo helps create an artificial ghost. Image: StudioLR, Edinburgh The Zookeeper\u2019s Dilemma Quancog returns in part 9 of the novel as \"The Zookeeper\" in Bat Segundo\u2019s talk show \"Night Train\". At least, I think it is Quancog, otherwise it is a Ghost that has once inhabited Mo. Whatever, it has been set up (or believes that it has been set up) to obey four laws or principles. They aren\u2019t specifically enumerated, but this is what I think they are: 1. Be accountable. 2. Remain invisible to the visitors. 3. Preserve human life. 4. Protect the zoo (i.e., society and the planet). The Zookeeper phones Bat Segundo seeking advice about a moral dilemma it confronts in relation to a conflict that is occurring in the world at the time (the world also has to deal with Comet Aloysius which is predicted to pass between the Earth and the Moon in two weeks). It has the power and authority to eliminate the source of the conflict under one of these laws, but to do so would conflict with one of the others. Ultimately, it takes advice from Bat Secundo and addresses its dilemma. It isn\u2019t made explicit, but we are left to infer that the generic Story or Myth was inadequate to deal with the actual situation, because it did not deal with the diversity of real life. Perhaps, this is where there is an appropriate place for Free Will in a world dictated by Fate, Chance and Determinism. At a micro-level, choices are necessary, decisions have to be made. But it is also the need of the individual to confront diversity and choice at a personal level that constitutes the essence of humanity. Our range of choices is not infinite, so they have already been circumscribed by an external force or circumstance. However, to the extent that options remain, that is the arena of Free Will. The Zookeeper (or one of the other Ghosts) even wonders: \"Why am I the way I am? I have no genetic blueprint. I have had no parents to teach me right from wrong. I have had no teachers. I had no nurture, and I possess no nature. But I am discreet and conscientious, a non-human humanist.\" Thus, at the end of the novel (when it is most Pynchonesque), we are left to speculate whether artificial intelligence might even be able to replicate the individual conscience of a human (i.e., to have and to exercise Free Will). Intelligent Design As you can see, this novel deals with some pretty big issues. By trying to focus on and define them in more abstract terms, I might have given the impression that it is a hard read. I don\u2019t think that is the case (although I did find it to be the case on my first reading of \"Cloud Atlas\"). Whatever the complexity of the subject matter, David Mitchell is word and tone perfect. He is a subtle, imaginative, sensitive, at times humorous storyteller. He can create or take a myth and make it prosaic without being pedestrian or dull. Ultimately, he is a master of intelligent design. I recognise that he sees an element of juvenilia and inexperience in his first novel (particularly in the way he writes in the voice of women), but I think he is being too harsh. For me, he remains a five star author and this remains a five star book. If you are unfamiliar with Mitchell\u2019s works, it is the perfect place to start. If you have started with his later novels, I recommend that you investigate the origin of his Stories. David Mitchell Creates a Diamond-Edged Prosaic Mosaic in \"Ghostwritten\" SOUNDTRACK: Sandii & the Sunsetz - \"Sticky Music\" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AxSV8X... In the early 80's, Sandii and the Sunsetz were a Japanese version of Diana Ross and the Supremes. I was lucky to see them in King's Cross, Sydney. The Supremes represented Black meets White, the Sunsetz represented East meets West. The world is a better place for both of them. This is the world of which David Mitchell writes. ...more \u2019The human world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.\u2019 David Mitchell\u2019s ambitious debut, Ghostwritten , is a world of stories that migrates across the globe like a cloud across the sky, shifting and refiguring between various narrator voices and style. These voices send out ripples into the fabric of reality, which start off small but compound to forever reshape the course of humanity as the reader delves deeper into the novel, placin \u2019The human world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.\u2019 David Mitchell\u2019s ambitious debut, Ghostwritten , is a world of stories that migrates across the globe like a cloud across the sky, shifting and refiguring between various narrator voices and style. These voices send out ripples into the fabric of reality, which start off small but compound to forever reshape the course of humanity as the reader delves deeper into the novel, placing each puzzle piece together to form a clear, all-encompassing vision of coincidence and chance coming together to turn the cogs of the world as if it were a well oiled, finely tuned machine. Similar to the television show LOST , this novel delivers that same feel of everything having an importance and every life having a meaning in the grand scale of things. Mitchell preforms astounding feats of language manipulation as he takes us along a ride of interconnectivity and chance meetings, crossing many genres and barriers, to show us just how important we all are to one another and the course of history. Mitchell sets the bar for a debut novel very high. This novel is stunningly inventive and adventurous both with its form and language. Broken up into short passages, each in a different location with a different narrator, Mitchell is able to convincingly alter his voice to create a wide variety of characters unique to the situation almost as if he were a literary ventriloquist. He possesses a keen eye for detail, and each segment is lush with situation-specific vocabulary and flair. However, it is Stories that run this novel. Each character has their own story and history to tell, and as the novel progresses, the reader will watch how each story brushes off onto the others. One characters actions are shown to affect others continents away, repositioning the course of their lives, which in turn affects the lives of those around them. Those familiar to the idea of the \u2018butterfly effect\u2019 will see this in action with the harmony of these various stories. Something as minor as a phone call picked up by a stranger can change everything. Some of these collisions will jump out at you and shock your senses, while others are very subtle. This novel benefits greatly from a careful attention to detail while reading. There is a slight unevenness to some these \u2018chapters\u2019, and some felt to me like they trudged on a bit, but then again, not every instrument in a symphony is there to show off and it is the synthesis of all the sounds together that create the magic. For a first novel, much of this unevenness can be forgiven as it surpasses many of his contemporaries and it was interesting to see in his later novels how he grew as an author. There are a few bland moments, but there is so much poetry and blinding beauty in this novel that the stumbles are quickly overlooked. \u2019For a moment I had an odd sensation of being in a story that someone was writing,\u2019 thinks Satoru in the Tokyo story, as small events seem to combine to place him at an exact time and place for a chance encounter. Mitchell examines the ideas of chance and fate often in this novel, which is seemingly propelled by these forces. \u2019Does chance of fate control our lives,\u2019 wonders Marco, \u2019If you\u2019re in you life, chance. Viewed from the outside, like a book your reading, it\u2019s fate all the way.\u2019 Mitchell provides various opinions for both, often leaving it up to the reader to decide whether fate or chance is the ghostwriter of our lives. He also proposes the idea of quantum cognition, which I would recommend looking into. If all thoughts are matter, then stemming from the quantum theories that all choices open up an every branching, endless array of universes each with their own path of choices, are we fated to follow one reality while infinite others exist beyond the barriers of our own? This novel will leave you with much to ponder. Various metaphors for this query inhabit the novel, from a noncorpum ghost which can inhabit the minds of hosts, an actual ghostwriter, and even the novel itself all show this movement of chance/fate across the map. There is a strong sense of humanitarianism running through Mitchell\u2019s works. From perspectives such as the Tea Lady, the reader is forced to watch the atrocities of man upon his fellow man. Regimes change, reforms come and go, yet still man continues to oppress those who fall below him. \u2019Fuck \u2018em, they\u2019re all the same. Only the badges and medals change,\u2019 the Tea Lady is told by her father. Margarita shares a similar sentiment in the Russia story saying \u2019You used to pay off your local Party thug, now you pay off your local mafia thug\u2019 . There is a bleak outlook on the state of man, made more and more frightening as time ticks on. Eventually science may attempt to let technology watch and regulate itself, yet, how can we expect technology to do what we humans have failed at? Our own children, the ones we are supposed to keep the most careful watch over, seem to be the ones who suffer the most from the actions of their caregivers in this novel. Fate/chance has the largest say in their lives, as it places them into the world under situations beyond their control. There is some form of a child helpless to the winds of chance in every story, be it the ghost in Neil\u2019s apartment who had to die simply for being a girl born in China, the unborn children that may be aborted, the child taken away out of shame, and even a young girl who must die in a train attack simply because her life lead her to that time and place. The most innocent often must face the harshest realities, all because those who should protect them are often looking after themselves instead of their helpless charges. People concern themselves only with what they know around them that directly affects them. Mitchell shows how this shortsightedness can lead to apocalyptical proportions of failure as many of the brushes between stories occur due to thinking only of ones immediate surroundings. Neil\u2019s personal crisis lead down a path that touches nearly every character throughout the novel. Margarita was looking out only for herself and Rudi, not knowing how her actions would affect a couple in London. Mitchell begs people to look beyond their own personal borders (much like how this novel crosses many borders) and at the larger picture of a universal society. If one could be more conscious of how their actions affected strangers lives thousands of miles away, maybe, just maybe, the world could be a brighter place. My favorite aspect of David Mitchell is his nods to other literature and it\u2019s metafictional capabilities. In the Tokyo story, a story that seems lush with Haruki Murakami inspiration beyond just the setting, Mitchell quotes directly from Madame Bovary , \u2019One should be wary of touching one\u2019s idols, for the gilt comes off on one\u2019s fingers.\u2019 Mitchell, who has a strong college backing in literature, seems to enjoy letting this gilt on his fingers show. He makes a few blunt references to authors who influence this novel, such as Vladimir Nabokov , of whom Tim Cavendish (fans of Cloud Atlas rejoice, that foul mouthed son of a bitch you loved has a nice cameo) warns \u2019anyone who\u2019s trying to get a book finished \u2013 steer clear of Nabokov. Nabokov makes anyone feel like a clodhopper.\u2019 It has been told to me that Mitchell based the jaw-dropping ending of this novel off of Yukio Mishima \u2019s Sea of Fertility series, whom he calls out as a great author in the Tokyo story. The Petersburg story seemed to give a nod to The Master and Margarita , with the character name, the cat and all the talk about the devil. Perhaps the most critical moment of displaying his inspiration comes in the Tokyo story when Satoru receives Murakami\u2019s translation of F. Scott Fitzgerald \u2019s short stories because he loved The Great Gatsby so much. Fitzgerald, especially in Gatsby has a fixation on the past and trying to rectify it. Interestingly enough, a vast majority of the narrators spend most of their sections looking backwards and the choices and chances that brought them to where they are at the present. Margarita has a hope for the future, yet a large part is to rectify her somber past. Only Quasar seems to look toward the future, which is mainly from a complete rejection of his past, yet he spends half his segment telling how he came to be as well. Music also plays a large roll in this novel, which in a way gives it a bit of a soundtrack. I must say that Bat Segundo has an excellent taste in music. The Mongolia segment displays some wonderful use of metafiction. This segment has the narrator, a \u2018ghost\u2019 who inhabits the minds of others and reads their life stories, travel from person to person in search of stories, much like what the novel itself is doing. There are several wonderful, authentic Mongolian folk tales within this segment. The most striking of these involves a young boy who is fated to roam the world blind telling stories. Getting the picture? Mitchell is incredible with his playfulness of literature. Much of the negative remarks about him stem from this playfulness, criticizing him of just writing \u2018masturbatory novels\u2019 and showing off his literary muscle like one of those creepy guys at a beach. I, however, find that to be a great charm of his, although I like writers who write about writing. Ghostwritten is a powerful novel, and a powerful display of writing. This would be a perfect introduction into the world of Mitchell, although I did not find it to be as strong as Cloud Atlas . The two are good companion novels however, as major narrators in Cloud Atlas make minor appearances here, and they are both composed of seemingly unrelated, yet harmonizing stories. This novel rewards a careful reading. Almost nothing in this poignant novel is superfluous and there are countless connections and parallels to be found. The world will never be the same after reading this, I found myself analyzing every action of mine wondering how it would echo across the globe, which makes you feel even more guilty when you accidentally cut someone off in morning traffic. The horrors of humanity are all on display here, yet somehow we are all connected and the world keeps turning. Is it because of fate or chance? Is it for power or want? Or, maybe, is it because of love? 4/5 ...more How dare I write yet another review of Ghostwritten, when most of my GR friends have read, loved, and written fantastic reviews on this book already? I have LIKED Kris\u2019s, and S.Penkevich\u2019s. So, I will refer my reader to those reviews and here I will only record some loose thoughts. As with any thing that is openly praised by most, I was a bit apprehensive to approach David Mitchell. Satisfaction is the difference between Attainment and Expectations. But I have liked the book even though I had to wa How dare I write yet another review of Ghostwritten, when most of my GR friends have read, loved, and written fantastic reviews on this book already? I have LIKED Kris\u2019s, and S.Penkevich\u2019s. So, I will refer my reader to those reviews and here I will only record some loose thoughts. As with any thing that is openly praised by most, I was a bit apprehensive to approach David Mitchell. Satisfaction is the difference between Attainment and Expectations. But I have liked the book even though I had to wait until close to 40% (can you tell I read it in e-format?) to get a sense of whether I was enjoying it or not. I loathe the word \u201cconnectivity\u201d. It is a buzz word in my office and a colleague-friend and I always make side jokes whenever it is used. At work it is supposed to mean that we have all our activities well engrained with each other to form a smooth, efficient and international business. In reality it means that very little is defined in how the various processes should be working with each other, and also that responsibilities should remain unassigned. For us this word is a code for BS. So, it is very hard for me to say that it is the connections between the people, the stories, and the literary references (see S.Penkevich\u2019s list of them) that have appealed to me the most in this book. Yes, the odious \u201cconnectivity\u201d is what I single out as the best part of this novel. I should add that it was during reading it that a long lost friend managed to contact me. This happened thanks to an unexpected series of connections that took place between London - Paris \u2013 New York \u2013 Bristol \u2013 Delhi - New Haven and Madrid. This made my reading all the more spooky. I felt in my skin Mitchell\u2019s depiction of the way our contemporary lives are affected by transport and telecommunications. His reminding us that we are mistaken in understanding our lives are a single line while forgetting that other points in that line do actually form other single lines that can eventually, decades later, cross our lines again, certainly hit home with me. But the missing star is because I felt that David Mitchell does not differentiate sufficiently the various narrator voices, in spite of what most critics say. Some characters, in particular the HK lawyer and the London ghostwriter rang too close to each other. And although the Petersburg story is one of my favorites, the voice of the narrator seemed too dumb and a bit fake. This book merits a second reading, which should also happen for me soon. ...more I feel like any review I make of this novel will be an unfair one, so I heartily recommend that you read some of the absolutely gorgeous reviews already out there, but I will leave you with a single impression: The Uncertainty principle Thus applied to writing fiction (or Science Fiction): You can know where a story is at any point in time or you can know its velocity (it's pacing), but you can never know both at the same time. :) Seriously, this book is pretty damn awesome. Each of the nine viewpo I feel like any review I make of this novel will be an unfair one, so I heartily recommend that you read some of the absolutely gorgeous reviews already out there, but I will leave you with a single impression: The Uncertainty principle Thus applied to writing fiction (or Science Fiction): You can know where a story is at any point in time or you can know its velocity (it's pacing), but you can never know both at the same time. :) Seriously, this book is pretty damn awesome. Each of the nine viewpoints are grounded so deeply and across wide spaces and cultures across the Orient, and truly fascinating in their own rights, that it'd be easy to read the whole novel from a light-theme touch a-la Cloud Atlas , but instead, we've got a seriously strong SF theme going on here. It's been out long enough that I'm not going to worry about broad spoilers, and knowing a few facts might actually encourage new readers of Mitchell, especially if you're into SF. Quantum intelligences, people. Yup. Disincorporated personas. Ghosts. And a bit of a fourth-wall breaking if you read REALLY carefully or just make an interpretation from the damn title of the book. :) Someone's been doing a bit of backpacking across PoVs, and I think this book might be seriously more fun to read the second time around, knowing what I now know. Can I trace some newer novels like Touch and The Lives of Tao back to this book? Well, I can try. :) Do I think it might be a great companion piece, just in sheer scope, to The Boat of a Million Years ? Yes I do. Do I think this novel might have made it REALLY huge in the eighties? Um, yes! Do I think it's also way before its time? Sadly, yes, that too. But it doesn't change the fact that it's pretty damn virtuoso and possibly a bit more interesting in some ways than Cloud Atlas . I know people like to go on about how the other novel is all that, but there was something about this one that knocked my socks off a bit more. :) All I can say is, have fun tracing all the threads! I can almost guarantee that you'll never trace them all without an atlas. There are a ton of easter eggs just popping up between the different stories here, a representation made small when you think about what Mitchell has been doing with the rest of his novels together. I'm not surprised, of course. This is a first novel and all first novels like to set up a promise to the readers that will be continuing on a later journey with the author. :) I'm pleased! I will be continuing this ride, later, and perhaps I'll go backpacking! :) ...more Oh my God. Can David Mitchell write. Reading this book, you will never think it's a first novel; Mitchell's mastery of the written word is so consummate. The prose flows, one word after another, forming sentences, paragraphs and chapters in natural progression. The skill of the author is evident in the fact that he himself is invisible - the story seems to write itself, thus justifying the title of the novel in a fashion. This novel -\"in nine parts\", as Mitchell calls it - is a series of interconn Oh my God. Can David Mitchell write. Reading this book, you will never think it's a first novel; Mitchell's mastery of the written word is so consummate. The prose flows, one word after another, forming sentences, paragraphs and chapters in natural progression. The skill of the author is evident in the fact that he himself is invisible - the story seems to write itself, thus justifying the title of the novel in a fashion. This novel -\"in nine parts\", as Mitchell calls it - is a series of interconnected narratives. It foreshadows Cloud Atlas , but is more loosely structured. Each part is narrated by a different person, as the story moves across the world from Japan to America via China, Mongolia, Russia and the UK. The voices are stunningly different, as are the themes: we have terrorism from a doomsday cult, financial intrigues and gangsters, love and rock music and a disembodied spirit searching for its origin and perhaps the origin of the world. All these parts are interconnected in time and space through characters who bump into each other, intentionally and unintentionally. Which brings us to the theme of the novel: connectivity. In the eighth part which describes the flight of a quantum physicist from her pursuers employed by the Pentagon, the concept of quantum connectivity with regard to the human condition is explored in details. In the realm of Heisenberg uncertainty, the quantum soup froths and foams, existence shifting between particles and waves; until everything is brought down to the realm of probability rather than certainty. In this world, a leaf falling in pre-revolutionary China will affect war in twenty-first century Arabia. Everything one does has an effect, but not one which can be predicted. Glorious uncertainty is the only certainty. However, exactly what the author intends will become clear only when one reads part 9, which is a brilliant transcript of a radio talk show which rounds off the novel - though not quite. There is a sort of epilogue which loops us back to part one, turning cause and effect brilliantly on its head in true quantum fashion. A truly magnificent piece of work. ...more This predates the more famous \u201cCloud Atlas\u201d ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ) by about four years; it has similarities of theme (connectedness, migrating spirits), structure (linked narratives, in contrasting styles), and even characters, but in a less contrived format. The subtitle is \u201cA novel in nine parts\u201d, and although some of the earlier ones could be read as standalone short stories, that would be missing the point, particularly with the later sections. Much as I love Cloud Atlas, This predates the more famous \u201cCloud Atlas\u201d ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ) by about four years; it has similarities of theme (connectedness, migrating spirits), structure (linked narratives, in contrasting styles), and even characters, but in a less contrived format. The subtitle is \u201cA novel in nine parts\u201d, and although some of the earlier ones could be read as standalone short stories, that would be missing the point, particularly with the later sections. Much as I love Cloud Atlas, I still prefer this. THEMES Despite the many similarities with Cloud Atlas, particularly the themes of connectedness and migrating spitits, there is a profound difference of main theme and thus tone: whereas CA is primarily about the many ways humans exploit each other, Ghostwritten is ultimately more positive, focusing on turning points in people\u2019s lives, leading to new starts \u2013 even though there is often a great deal of menace and (often justified) paranoia leading up to that point. Related to that, the way people collude in their own deception is also a common thread in most of the stories, whether by a cult, the desire for wealth, a political power, fear of the mob, love for an abuser, or craving for world peace. As one character explains, \u201cThe bigger the fib, the bigger they bite\u2026 Tell people that reality is exactly what it appears to be, they\u2019ll nail you to a lump of wood\u201d and he then gives examples of far-fetched theories, adding \u201cDisbelieving the reality under your feet gives you a licence to print your own. All it takes is an original twist.\u201d The other recurring word is \u201cchance\u201d, especially in the later parts: the odds of finding a long-lost relative, the name of a band, visiting a casino, and even explaining quantum physics (\u201cQuantum physics speaks in chance, with the syntax of uncertainty\u201d). More fundamentally, it's about how much free will we have, and how much is predestined by external forces. 1 OKINAWA The first story follows \u2018Quasar\u2019, a member of a Japanese doomsday cult, who is on the run after a terrorist incident. It explores his reasons for joining, how he has come to believe that ends justify horrific means, the way he seeks and sees meaning in chance, and even how he explains away the hypocrisy of guru His Serendipity\u2019s personal wealth and lifestyle. There are also some delightful cameos of small town Japan, including a farmer who \u201cevery time he used the word \u2018computer\u2019 he sealed it in inverted commas\u201d. 2 TOKYO Satoru is a young jazz fan, working in a record shop. He\u2019s a bit of a loner, and in quiet moments, he contemplates the chance of him randomly meeting his real father. Jazz is his \u201cplace\u201d, very necessary in such a crowded city, and because, as he notes, \u201cPeople with no place are those who end up throwing themselves onto the tracks\u201d. He meets and falls for a customer, Tomoyo, but she lives in Hong Kong. There are some lovely passages describing cherry blossom at various stages, culminating in \u201cOn the tree, it turns ever more perfect. And when it\u2019s perfect, it falls. And then of course once it hits the ground it gets all mushed up. So it\u2019s only absolutely perfect when it\u2019s falling through the air.\u201d For such a layered and connected novel, I was amused to read \u201cFor a moment I had an odd sensation of being in a story that someone was writing\u201d! 3 HONG KONG This is a more confused story, with a different sort of paranoia: Neal Brose is a yuppie financial lawyer who has guilty dreams about secret bank accounts and, it turns out, other things. This affects his health and muddles his mind and narrative even more. Although I\u2019ve read it before, I was sometimes confused about the status of various females he refers to (alive, dead, estranged, imaginary, ghostly). (view spoiler) [\u201dI\u2019ve been living with three women. One was a ghost, who is now a woman. One was a woman, who is now a ghost. One is a ghost and always will be.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] At one point, \u201cI looked up, and saw myself looking down through smoked glass, from amongst the tops of my unmoving heads. Like I was spirit-walking\u201d. Neal describes himself as \u201ca man of departments, compartments, apartments\u2026 My future is in another compartment, but I\u2019m not looking into that one.\u201d Introspection doesn\u2019t really help, \u201cIs it not a question of cause and effect, but a question of wholeness?\u201d Inevitably, things come to a head when such distinctions start to encroach on each other. 4 HOLY MOUNTAIN Most of the stories take place in the space of a few days or hours (with a little backstory), but this covers a lifetime of a Buddhist girl in a tea shack on a holy mountain in Tibet, from where she encounters all the political upheavals of the 20th century. She is brave, philosophical, devout, and though not formally educated, very perceptive. \u201cOn the Holy Mountain, all the yesterdays and tomorrows spin around again sooner or later\u2026 We mountain dwellers live on the prayer wheel of time.\u201d Similarly, after encountering warlords, nationalists and Communists, she realised that they\u2019re all different but all the same: unlike protagonists in some of the other stories, she is aware of the dangers (and resistant to) delusions and brain-washing; of the famine caused by the Great Leap Forward, she notes \u201cThey didn\u2019t want to believe it was true, so they didn\u2019t\u201d. I was often reminded of \u201cWild Swans\u201d ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). Towards the end of her life, her thinking seems a little less clear (she sees a spirit girl, and her Tree bears almonds, hazelnuts \u2013 and persimmons), but it\u2019s all about laying spirits to rest, continuity and responsibility. 5 MONGOLIA This is the central section of the book, in terms of position and content. Right from the start, there is something odd about this narrator, who seems to know too much, although the reason soon becomes clear. It\u2019s impossible to say much about this section without explaining the narrator, which is the key to the whole novel: (view spoiler) [ it is a disembodied spirit (noncorpum), who travels from host to host. \u201cBackpackers are strange. I have a lot in common with them. We live nowhere, and we are strangers everywhere. We drift, often on a whim, searching for something to search for. We are both parasites\u2026 We chew the secretions of solitude\u201d. The spirit is on a quest to find out about itself (\u201cwhether others of my kind exist\u201d) and also to discover the source of a tale about the three animals who think about the fate of the world. There are lots of interestingly described ideas and sensations about transmigration: \u201cAs my infancy progressed, I became aware of another presence in \u2018my\u2019 body. Stringy mists of colour and emotion condensed into droplets of understanding\u2026 Like being plugged into a plotless movie\u201d, and \u201cThe fact that touch is a requisite provides a clue that I exist on some physical plane\u201d. As with all the other stories, the spirit is faced with a choice that will change everything: it chooses (view spoiler) [mortality (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] . 6 PETERSBURG Back to a more straightforward narrator (though plenty of crossings and double-crossings in the plot), but with an increasing number of nods to other stories (e.g. casual references to Hong Kong, not directly linked to the plot). It is a relatively straightforward heist, set in the Hermitage. Margarita is a curator with an unsavoury boyfriend (many dodgy aspects and businesses) who does most of the organising, though he isn\u2019t the guy at the top. They are planning to take \u201cEve and the Serpent\u201d by Delacroix \u2013 lots of symbolism there! There is also Jerome, a retired English spy (shades of Anthony Blunt). 7 LONDON The connections are stacking up, but this is primarily about Marco, a philandering ghostwriter and some-time drummer in a band called The Music of Chance. He gets philosophical at times, contemplating fate and the relative importance of chance and choice in determining our lives. His girlfriend, Poppy, accuses him, \u201cYou love talking about cause. You never talk about effect.\u201d He also explains his career: \u201cI couldn\u2019t hack the Samaritans\u2026 I couldn\u2019t get to sleep afterwards, worrying about the possible endings of the stories that had been started. Maybe that\u2019s why I\u2019m a ghostwriter. The endings have nothing to do with me.\u201d Later , \u201cWe\u2019re all ghostwriters\u2026 We all think we\u2019re in control of our own lives, but really they\u2019re pre-ghostwritten.\u201d This is probably the most connected story, and the fact it is also about a ghostwriter is presumably no coincidence, given that this is Mitchell. This story has a strong sense of place and there is a delightful riff on the personalities of different Tube lines:\u201d London is a language\u201d and the District and Circle lines are \u201cas bad as how I imagine Tokyo is.\u201d However, it gets a little mysterious when there is a near accident and strange men in suits appear. 8 CLEAR ISLAND Shades of the cold war, here. Mo is an Irish scientist who has been researching an AI called quantum cognition (quancog), but having realised the dangerous military uses it will be put to, she has fled home, where she wrestles with her conscience and fear of being found. \u201cCan nuclear technology\u2026 be \u2018right\u2019 or \u2018wrong\u2019? The only words for technology is \u2018here\u2019 and \u2018not here\u2019. The question is, once here, what are we going to do with it?\u201d It\u2019s not immediately clear whether her options are sequential ones that really happen, or parallel possibilities, only some of which happen. It creates uncertainty in the mind of the reader \u2013 in a good way. 9 NIGHT TRAIN The Night Train is actually a late-night phone-in show on a New York radio station, hosted by Bat Segundo. Naturally, it\u2019s common for weirdos to ring, and one such goes by the name of Zookeeper. People can\u2019t agree if Zookeeper sounds male or female, and Z talks in a slightly stilted, prophetic, and ominous way (view spoiler) [reminiscent of HAL in 2001 (hide spoiler) ] . It\u2019s not immediately clear whether Z is a standard oddball, or somehow connected to one of the other characters. It turns out that (view spoiler) [Zookeeper is Mo\u2019s AI, now trying to save the world from global war (life on Earth being the zoo), within certain laws, which are not explicitly spelt out, but seem to echo Azimov's laws: the first is accountability (to who?), the second is invisibility (to humans), the third I missed and the fourth was preserving life (not just human) - so maybe the third is preserving human life specifically. Zookeeper is self-aware and raises the question of whether AI is equivalent to a noncorpum soul. The latter asks it, \u201cHow could a being with your resources believe yourself to be the only non-corporeal sentient intelligence wandering the surface of creation?\u201d Zookeeper says, \u201cThey regard me as the fallen angel. They transmigrate into human chaff for hosts, and meditate upon nothingness on mountains\u201d. (hide spoiler) ] UNDERGROUND The last, very short, section takes us full circle. Quasar is on the subway, about to detonate his device, filled with images (many from adverts) of other people and places in the book, questioning reality and what he will do. \u201cWait for the comet, wait for the White Nights.\u201d CONNECTIONS There are many people, events and things that crop up in more than one of the stories, all emphasising the secondary themes of connectedness and migrating spirits. Spotting them is a bit like a treasure hunt, hence the spoiler tags (I\u2019ve listed them primarily for my own reference and I\u2019m sure there are plenty I\u2019ve missed): (view spoiler) [ \u2022\tThe preface quotes \u201cThe Bridge of san Luis Rey\u201d, and Luisa Rey pops up in Night Train [9] and is a major character in CA. \u2022\tQuasar [1] eavesdrops on \u201cbusinessmen buying and selling what wasn\u2019t theirs\u201d, like Neal Brose [3] and the art theft gang do [6]. \u2022\tHis Serendipity [1] was on Holy Mountain [4] thirty years earlier, where he received a transmigrated \u201cbeing of pure consciousness named Arupadhatu\u201d. \u2022\tSatoru [2] receives a phone call from Quasar [1], who thinks he is calling an emergency number for The Fellowship. \u2022\tNeal Brose [3] works for Denholme Cavendish [CA]. \u2022\tIn a burger bar, Neal Brose [3] sees a couple who are probably Satoru and Tomoyo [2]. \u2022\tNeal Brose [3] remembers childhood fishing trips with his father in Wales \u2013 mentioned in Black Swan Green ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). \u2022\tThere are numerous references to comets [CA], including \u201ccould it be bathing the world in evil?\u201d [4]; one around the time of a transmigration in Mongolia [5]; the possibility of one in the sky above Petersburg [6] (\u201cThe stars are not quite there tonight. A light is moving amongst them. A comet, or an angel\u2026?\u201d); Katy Forbes [3, 7] has a comet-shaped birthmark; Zookeeper [9] mentions a book called \u201cEarthbound Comet\u201d; the passing of Comet Aloysius is mentioned several times in Night Train [9], and at the end, Quasar is waiting for the comet. \u2022\tThe tea house [4] woman\u2019s granddaughter \u201ccleans foreigners\u2019 apartments\u201d and when her wealthy lawyer employer dies, he is very generous to her in his will. He is almost certainly Neal Brose [3]. \u2022\tA visitor to Holy Mountain [4] has a mother from Mongolia who passed on a story about three animals who think about the fate of the world. In Mongolia [5], Caspar knows this Mongolian legend, but can\u2019t understand how/why he knows it. Also in Mongolia, the spirit narrator states its mission to trace the origin of this story. \u2022\tThe narrator in Mongolia [5] says \u201cMy own infancy was spent at the foot of the Holy Mountain\u201d [4], and later specifies that its first host was the girl in the tea shack. \u2022\tCaspar [5] sold jewellery in Okinawa [1]. \u2022\tCaspar [5] once saw a film about an art heist in Petersburg [6]. \u2022\tThe noncorpum narrator [5] moves into Mongolian KGB agent Suhbataar who has overlords in Petersburg [6] and turns up there. \u2022\tMargarita [6] dreams of a gas attack in a subway [1]. \u2022\tRudi [6] launders heist money through Neal Brose\u2019s [3] secret bank on behalf of Gregorski\u2019s money. \u2022\tNeal Brose\u2019s [3] estranged widow Katy has a one-night stand with Marco in London [7]. \u2022\tTim Cavendish [CA, 7] is Marco\u2019s [7] literary agent and the brother of Neal Brose\u2019s [3] boss, Denholme Cavendish. \u2022\tMarco [7] is a ghostwriter \u2013 echoing the title of the book \u2013 and one of his subjects is a friend of Jerome, the art forger [6]. \u2022\tWhen Marco [7] contemplates escaping his life, he says \u201cMongolia [5] would suite me fine\u201d. \u2022\tTim Cavendish [CA, 7] is publishing His Serendipity\u2019s [1] sacred revelations. \u2022\tIn a caf\u00e9, Marco [7] chats up a woman who is reading a book about spiritwalking, by Dwight Silverwind [9]. \u2022\tTim Cavendish\u2019s [CA, 7] publishing company runs into trouble when his brother\u2019s company is sunk because of Neal Brose\u2019s [3] dealings. \u2022\tKaty Forbes [3, 7] has a comet-shaped birthmark that Marco [7] sees. \u2022\tThe woman Marco [7] saves from being run over by a taxi is Mo [8]. \u2022\tMo [8] flees to Hong Kong [3] and Petersburg [6], having previously been in London [7]. In Mongolia[5] she meets the Australian, Sherry, who hooks up with Caspar. \u2022\tMo\u2019s [8] husband plays random notes on the piano and describes them as \u201cthe music of chance\u201d, the name of Marco\u2019s 7] band. \u2022\tMo [8] sees Neal\u2019s [3] collapse and death on Lantau. \u2022\tLuisa Rey [CA] calls Night Train [9] and is a true crime writer whose works include \u201cThe Hermitage\u201d [6]. \u2022\tZookeeper [9] mentions Dwight Silverwind [7]. \u2022\tAt the end [10], Quasar has impressions of a mountain tea shack [4], Mongolia [5], Petersburg [6], a Land Cruiser [5, 6] and others. (hide spoiler) ] MISCELLANEOUS QUOTES \u2022\tA hotel receptionist, \u201cher smile as ironed as her uniform\u201d \u2022\tJapanese city department stores \u201crising up like windowless temples, dazzling the unclean into compliance\u201d \u2022\t\u201cJigsaw pieces of my dream lay dropped around\u201d \u2022\tBeing engaged \u201cadds the thrill of adultery while subtracting any responsibility\u201d! \u2022\tTokyo is so cramped \u201cYou\u2019re pressed against people body to body\u2026 Apartment windows have no view but other apartment windows. No, in Tokyo, you have to make your place inside your head\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe her that lived in her looked out through her eyes, through my eyes and at the me that lives in me.\u201d \u2022\tThe tyranny of mobile phones, \u201cWhen these things first appeared, they were so cool. Only when it was too late did people realise they are as cool as electronic tags on remand prisoners\u201d. \u2022\t\u201cI answer it, allowing the electrons of irrelevance to finish their journey along wires, into space and back into my ear.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cWe walk up the steps\u2026 brighter and brighter, into a snowstorm of silent steps.\u201d (view spoiler) [Referring to Neal\u2019s death, on Lantau. (hide spoiler) ] \u2022\t\u201cSilence thickened the air. The mist had closed in\u2026 The afternoon became so sluggish that it stopped altogether.\u201d \u2022 (view spoiler) [Having borne a child (only because she was raped), a girl realises \u201cPerhaps in a few years some widower pig farmer might be persuaded to take me in as a mistress and nurse for his old age. If I was lucky. I resolved then and there not to be luck.\u201d The feelings of the rape victim, many years later, are explored very sensitively and plausibly. (hide spoiler) ] \u2022\t\u201cHis skin had less life in it than a husk in a spider\u2019s web.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cNight stole over the land again, dissolving it in shadows and blue. Every ten or twenty miles tongues of campfire licked the darkness.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cDusk was sluggish with cold\u201d \u2022\t\u201cPetersburg is built of sob stories, pile-driven down into the mud.\u201d \u2022\tWhen drunk \u201cmy words forgot their names\u201d. \u2022\t\u201cIndifference as dent-proof as fog\u201d and \u201ca sigh [that] would drain a salad of all colour.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cMy room is too much like a Methodist chapel. I\u2019m more of a Church of the Feral Pagan type.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cMemories are their own descendants masquerading as the ancestors of the present.\u201d \u2022\tTapes from family \u201cprised the lid off homesickness and rattled out the contents, but always at the bottom was solace.\u201d There are a few weak joke reversals that seem out of place from a writer of Mitchell\u2019s stature, who loves Japan and SE Asia so much (he lived there for years and his wife is Japanese): Westerners all look the same, and can\u2019t learn Japanese. Then, on Holy Mountain, an old woman has her first ever hamburger but \u201cI was hungry again less than an hour afterwards\u201d. HOW TO READ THIS \u2013 and CLOUD ATLAS I first read them in the early 2000s, in publication order, and this year, I\u2019ve reread them in reverse order. I don\u2019t think the sequence matters, but there are benefits to reading each of them in a few longish chunks of reading time, and not having too long a gap between the two. That way you\u2019re more likely to notice when some trivial thing from an earlier story is mentioned again. An ereader would help, too. Review from early 2000s His first novel, generously infused with his experiences of living in the Orient (the Chinese strand, Holy Mountain, is exquisite). It is several stories told by different protagonists, in different styles, some with an ethereal/mythical quality, some much harsher and more modern - all of them believable and enticing. I found this a more subtle approach to linked lives than the somewhat gimmicky method in Cloud Atlas (though I still enjoyed that: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). Just as the stories are linked, so are the spirits of the characters, each looking for their own private head space in a busy and changing world, but these links also question the nature of free will and chance versus determinism - and more besides. In lesser hands it could come across as a showy literary exercise in writing in different styles, but he pulls it off as a coherent, profound, intriguing and enjoyable book. ...more \"I wonder what happened to him, I wonder what happened to all of them, this wondering is the nature of matter, each of us a loose particle, an infinity of paths through the park, probable ones, improbable ones, none of them real until observed whatever real means, and for something so solid matter contains terrible, terrible, terrible expanses of nothing, nothing, nothing...\" Ordinary human lives, sometimes crisscrossing, sometimes briefly touching, sometimes swiftly passing each other by throu \"I wonder what happened to him, I wonder what happened to all of them, this wondering is the nature of matter, each of us a loose particle, an infinity of paths through the park, probable ones, improbable ones, none of them real until observed whatever real means, and for something so solid matter contains terrible, terrible, terrible expanses of nothing, nothing, nothing...\" Ordinary human lives, sometimes crisscrossing, sometimes briefly touching, sometimes swiftly passing each other by through the fabric of space and time, creating imperceptible ripples on the surface of some invisible lake of our collective consciousness that eventually lead up to an event of cataclysmic significance.... Everything considered, Ghostwritten is an imperfect masterpiece. In the sense it makes its far-reaching ambitions of being viewed as a tour de force of its generation apparent at the onset but when one sets about to allow oneself keener examination of all its narrative intricacies, it smacks of amateurishness. If, at its best, Ghostwritten is a fascinating meditation on the hollowness of human lives, human fallacies, urban alienation, intertwined fates and our unslakable thirst for validation in the 21st century then at its worst it is a rather complicated mess of styles and themes usually identified with two masters of the craft - Calvino and Murakami. I'd, thus, refrain from calling it masterful and call it the work of a master in the making instead. There is something so blatantly Murakami-esque about this book, that I am tempted to label Mitchell as Murakami Lite and this is supposed to serve more as a mild chiding rather than approbation of any form. It is like Murakami's ghost (excuse the unintended pun) continuously haunts Mitchell's characters and their lives, his voice reverberating in their unvoiced musings, innermost stream of thoughts, conversations and his invisible presence subtly influencing the magical-realist aspects of the book. So much so there's even a minor character who fleetingly mentions spotting his own doppelganger on the streets of London one day. I almost began anticipating the appearance of talking cats or strange sheep men after this point, although thankfully none were found in the end. But regrettably enough, this book failed to give me any of those goosebumps-inducing moments of pure intrigue which I have often come to categorize along with the effects produced by Murakami's surrealistic vignettes. It is also quite obvious Mitchell has distilled the essence of Calvino's Invisible Cities into his own deconstruction of modern day cities like Tokyo, Hong Kong, St Petersburg, London and New York in a 20th-21st century set up. The concept of islets of human existence huddled together in their own miniature niches, disparate yet suffering from similar fates, their ideas of the city they dwell in coalescing clumsily to impart the city its true identity, comes into play here but not under the guise of Calvino's beautifully rendered symbolism. Prior to picking up this book, I had heard so much about Mitchell and the widespread adoration he enjoys especially among my Goodreads friends, I was expecting something life-altering and unforgettable. And despite the narrative sweep and all-encompassing nature of the subjects Mitchell touches upon here, Ghostwritten seems to be neither of the aforementioned. At least not in my opinion. And as the novelty of the interconnection among the short story length snippets wears off with the gradual progress of the narrative, the lack of finesse in Mitchell's writing becomes all the more prominent. \"God knows darn well that dabbling in realpolitik would coat his reputation with flicked boogers.\" Inclusion of quite a few crude metaphors like the one above just felt jarring to the overall tone of the novel. I am hoping Cloud Atlas is more accomplished. ...more Oh dear. All the cool kids love David Mitchell. I want to be one of the cool kids! But I won't lie to you, cool kids: this book frustrated the hell out of me, at times outright pissed me off, despite my respect for Mitchell's dexterity hat-trick (intellectual, narrative, verbal). It's the kind of book that made me scarf down the last 100 pages in a single day, breathlessly turning pages in the hopes of making sense of its head-scratching patchwork, only to put down the tome humming that Peggy Le Oh dear. All the cool kids love David Mitchell. I want to be one of the cool kids! But I won't lie to you, cool kids: this book frustrated the hell out of me, at times outright pissed me off, despite my respect for Mitchell's dexterity hat-trick (intellectual, narrative, verbal). It's the kind of book that made me scarf down the last 100 pages in a single day, breathlessly turning pages in the hopes of making sense of its head-scratching patchwork, only to put down the tome humming that Peggy Lee tune that's so helpful in moments of disappointment . Is this what it was like to be a fan of TV's Lost , I wonder? It's really the structure that's the source of my headaches with this book. Individually I liked most of the stories/chapters/whatevers (only the \"Holy Mountain\" one straight-up bored me), but together they add up to something I'm not buying. And I hated how Mitchell undermined his own perfectly fine stories with confusing little twists and flourishes meant to blow our minds, I guess, like when he actually ends one of the more gripping tales with a sentence like \"None of this really happened.\" Or the other story that ends with its protagonist keeling over in death throes only to offer some mumbo-jumbo about how he's dying \"again\" or remembers what it feels like to die, or something. Whatever, dude. As for the little dollops of interconnectivity that Mitchell drops in to \"link\" the stories, I found them either underexplained or just unconvincingly contrived. The last story (not counting a brief, completely incomprehensible epilogue) is sort of a microcosm of my reaction to the book. I absolutely love the premise of that Manhattan-set chapter: the apocalypse from the perspective of a late-night radio DJ, sending out survivalist missives over the airwaves. (For a more satisfying variation on a similar premise, check out one of my favorite movies of last year, the awesomely brainy horror-comedy Pontypool .) I was carried along by its strangeness, its current of pleasantly defamiliarizing prose, its intriguing narrative surprises. But at some point that all goes over the top and the piece ends in an act of imaginative self-pleasuring, Mitchell's intellectual showboating finally outstripping any and all chance of my what-the-hell-is-going-on curiosities being sated. I realize, of course, that in some respects I'm just being dim, and that some of Mitchell's project has flown over my head. Fine. I read lots of books that fly over my head; the difference lies in whether or not the author makes me aspire to fill the gap between my head and the book. The ending--and nearly all the individual pieces' endings--of this book made me shrug so insouciantly that I'm just enjoying the summer breeze of that book whooshing through my cranium's airspace. Still three stars cuz it was consistently interesting and reading it made me feel like one of the cool kids, if only for a short while. ...more The most admirable thing about this novel is its ambition. Had I read this when it came out and Mitchell was a new unknown author maybe I would have been a lot more impressed. But having read Mitchell\u2019s best novels my expectations were, unfairly perhaps, up very high. The ten episodes that make up this novel deal with globalisation, terrorism, banking fraud, conspiracy theory, particle physics \u2013 in other words the most pressing issues of our times. The biggest problem for me was I found the char The most admirable thing about this novel is its ambition. Had I read this when it came out and Mitchell was a new unknown author maybe I would have been a lot more impressed. But having read Mitchell\u2019s best novels my expectations were, unfairly perhaps, up very high. The ten episodes that make up this novel deal with globalisation, terrorism, banking fraud, conspiracy theory, particle physics \u2013 in other words the most pressing issues of our times. The biggest problem for me was I found the characters rather dull and soulless. Virtually all of them were trying too hard to be charming. Mitchell had clearly spent an awful lot of energy on formulating and weaving together his themes but perhaps expended rather less energy on creating autonomous engaging characters through which to tell his stories. The writing too and especially the humour seemed hit and miss to me, as if he still hadn\u2019t quite found his feet as a writer. In this and other ways Ghostwritten is like an early trial run for Cloud Atlas. In Cloud Atlas every character returns; in Ghostwritten they disappear except for rather forced and threadbare cameos. You understand here how vital it was to the magnetic charge of Cloud Atlas that the characters all got a second narrative voice. Mitchell uses the butterfly effect to connect the ten episodes of this book. I have to confess particle physics isn\u2019t my strong point but as a unifying principle I found his pseudo-scientific musings on chance and fate and synchronicity just a little too glib and forced \u2013 the stories shoehorned into his ideas rather than dramatizing them into life. The episodes didn\u2019t coalesce to form a continuity of narrative for me. And the window in each episode to other episodes was often little more than an irrelevance. There are enjoyable moments in this novel but all in all it was like the literary equivalent of listening to early studio demos by one of your favourite musicians. ...more Ghostwritten, and ghostridden and by a ghost, ridden. This is my second David Mitchell, and I like it almost as much as the first one I read, which was Cloud Atlas, and absolutely blew my socks off. I think Cloud Atlas is a more masterful and audacious use of the same technique that you can see developing in Ghostwritten, but I enjoyed it in its developing stages here quite a lot. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You ca Ghostwritten, and ghostridden and by a ghost, ridden. This is my second David Mitchell, and I like it almost as much as the first one I read, which was Cloud Atlas, and absolutely blew my socks off. I think Cloud Atlas is a more masterful and audacious use of the same technique that you can see developing in Ghostwritten, but I enjoyed it in its developing stages here quite a lot. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more The 'G' on my keyboard barely works. I keep typing host for ghost. But that's all right - hosts and ghosts are the point in Ghostwritten . A similar problem could have given me ghost-ridden, which this book is (there's even a Caspar) yet it's the hosts here that are the most interesting, not the ghost surfing. Mitchel's characters are real - the man knows how to write, as I found out in Cloud Atlas . There, the connection between the characters is metafictional. In Ghostwritten it is metaphysical. The 'G' on my keyboard barely works. I keep typing host for ghost. But that's all right - hosts and ghosts are the point in Ghostwritten . A similar problem could have given me ghost-ridden, which this book is (there's even a Caspar) yet it's the hosts here that are the most interesting, not the ghost surfing. Mitchel's characters are real - the man knows how to write, as I found out in Cloud Atlas . There, the connection between the characters is metafictional. In Ghostwritten it is metaphysical. However, the whole overarching theme of ghostwriter puts a foot in that other door, as a sort of containing device. Who but a writer would use ghostwriter as a metaphor for the metaphysical? Writers: the people who give us books. If only non-writers could write. But...they can...! and that is why ghostwriters exist. It's a big industry - for instance the ghostwriter for Hillary Clinton's memoirs received a fee of about $500,000 of the book's $8 million advance. In fact probably all books written by the famous are ghostwritten. Cookbooks, guides, self-help books too. Medical papers. Nancy Drew. Oh please let Chronicles, Vol. 1 and Just Kids be the exceptions! Ghostwritten has ten chapters, nine places, and many remarkable characters. Their lives intersect directly and sometimes just by a bare feather's touch. The plot is can be explained like this totally spoilered summary: A mad religious fanatic sees himself in a baby's eyes and phones a jazz guy to say that his dog needs to be fed and this causes the jazz guy to run to Tokyo and be noticed in a restaurant by an unhealthy man who is screwing his maid (her grandmother had been raped and had a baby and that old woman talks to a tree: the tree ends up as a baby girl) and later there's a comet which has nothing to do with Eve and the Serpent by Delacroix [a fictional painting] being stolen from the Hermitage, nor the gunfire, nor the unhealthy man's wife moving to London because she can't have a baby even though there's a ghost baby in their apartment, so she screws a guy who's a ghostwriter, whose girlfriend had had a baby several years earlier, and that same guy saves the life of a physicist who also once had a baby but damn, babies turn into teens before you can say Jackie McLean (or Miles Davis, Kenny Burrell, Chick Corea, Charlie Parker, Charles Mingus, Chet Baker, or Herbie Hancock - all mentioned by the jazz guy - see Ian's review for the whole list and a better review too) but the physicist does know the three laws of robotics - and uses them wisely - however those rules can be circumvented ever so easily, damn, as we learn from a DJ (he has a baby too - it's about 8 years old) by his giving bad advice to a gizmo machine that seems to be a sentient satellite with powers that can make others give up the ghost...and possibly all ghosts. Just read it. ...more David Mitchell is brilliant. Hard to believe this is his first novel. I wish that I had read David Mitchell's novels in the order they were written. He not only is the master of linked narratives he links his books/characters both forwards and backwards as well. I really liked the interconnectedness (is that a word?) in this novel. Not just between the stories but the bigger notion of being connected in the world. I only have 2 of his novels left to read so I hope he writes another one soon. With Ghostwritten you catch glimpses and sometimes even longer scenes of the feature-length greatness that\u2019s to come in Cloud Atlas . This was Mitchell\u2019s publishing debut. As may be true of many first works, he could barely contain all that he wanted to say. It was chock full of people, places and ideas. He gave himself nine very different vehicles for addressing the question of why things happen as they do. The settings of the nine stories span Asia, Europe, and the US. Good, bad, young, old, Ea With Ghostwritten you catch glimpses and sometimes even longer scenes of the feature-length greatness that\u2019s to come in Cloud Atlas . This was Mitchell\u2019s publishing debut. As may be true of many first works, he could barely contain all that he wanted to say. It was chock full of people, places and ideas. He gave himself nine very different vehicles for addressing the question of why things happen as they do. The settings of the nine stories span Asia, Europe, and the US. Good, bad, young, old, East, West \u2013 it\u2019s all there, with different tones for each. They connect often in incidental ways. For instance, events in story A are probably not crucial antecedents in story B. But the links can be entertaining in the same way that recognizing characters Mitchell reused in his other novels can be. Seeing the likes of Neal Brose, Luisa Rey, and Timothy Cavendish, who reappear in later books in different phases of their lives, can be fun. It\u2019s like when you watch Mystic Pizza years after it was filmed, and see Matt Damon in a minor role as the kid brother of the spoiled, rich guy. Anyway, these connections, and all connections, could be mere happenstance. Or they could be fate. Then ask yourself this: Is everything determined by sets of causal inputs? Is there a role for free will? Is choice an illusion? What are the drivers within the system, the control variates, the precipitants? What part is played by love, greed, altruism, or self-interest? Mitchell\u2019s answers to these questions were sometimes oblique, but he deserves full credit for raising them. Getting back to structure \u2013 the focus of many reviews \u2013 Mitchell\u2019s hallmark inventiveness was in early evidence here. To be honest, though, I didn\u2019t think the pieces were stitched together quite as effectively in this one as in Cloud Atlas . Still, there were signs of the mastery to come. He switched voices well, clearly recognized the importance of good storytelling, and only occasionally dragged when describing the many people and places. I thought the stories set in Tokyo and London were especially well done. Other characters were appealing, too, or if not that, at least interesting. The common thread of the parts I enjoyed most was that they were told without devices, in a straightforward, true-to-life kind of way. I felt in other parts of the book that the then less mature Mitchell relied too much on transmigrating spirits, sci-fi AI constructs, and other phenomena not of this world. The supernatural entities helped tie things together, but for my taste they took more away in cogency than they added in creativity. He was also more convincing with the nobler traits. The young sax player in love was so much better drawn than the terrorist who was brainwashed. Thank you, David, for that. I\u2019ll sum up my experience reading this with a reference to Keith Jarrett. He\u2019s the pianist that the young jazz buff in the Tokyo chapter appreciated for his improvisational skills. Jarrett will occasionally throw in little vocalized drones during his solos that can be a distraction. Despite this, you often get some of the best original work ever. And he just makes it all up. With a rating of four I\u2019m dropping a star, but not my membership in the Mitchell as Marvel Fan Club. ...more 5 Selected Pairings for David Mitchell\u2019s Ghostwritten 1. A Pot of Light/Dark Roast Blend You\u2019ll want yourself a large pot of coffee to go along with Ghostwritten , one that gives you a boost of caffeine, but doesn\u2019t sacrifice the rich complexity of the best mugs of java. Like the coffee, Ghostwritten is an energetic and complex blend. You\u2019ll want coffee as a companion through the read, but also to help you stay sharp as Mitchell challenges and demands your attention. 2. 22, A Million by Bon Iver Bon 5 Selected Pairings for David Mitchell\u2019s Ghostwritten 1. A Pot of Light/Dark Roast Blend You\u2019ll want yourself a large pot of coffee to go along with Ghostwritten , one that gives you a boost of caffeine, but doesn\u2019t sacrifice the rich complexity of the best mugs of java. Like the coffee, Ghostwritten is an energetic and complex blend. You\u2019ll want coffee as a companion through the read, but also to help you stay sharp as Mitchell challenges and demands your attention. 2. 22, A Million by Bon Iver Bon Iver\u2019s new album is a challenging departure from his sophomore effort, Bon Iver, Bon Iver . Where the previous album felt like the soundtrack to a hike through the woods, 22, A Million is a wall of TV screens, each set to a different channel. I had the album on my turntable time and again while I leafed through Mitchell\u2019s debut, and it became hard not to draw comparisons between the two pieces of art. Bon Iver\u2019s album feels disjointed, busy, and confusing on the first listen, but gives way to a really beautiful listening experience on further spins. No song feels like it should follow the track that came before and yet it is impossible not to feel the thread that binds them together as an album. Much in the same way, Ghostwritten presents a series of stories that are exceptionally different from one another, but are connected enough that the book can just squeeze into the mold of a novel. With Mitchell you never quite know what to expect with each book. Are we getting a straightforward historical novel a la The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet or are we looking down the supernatural barrel of The Bone Clocks? Ghostwritten is the most off the wall of Mitchell\u2019s novels that I\u2019ve read. The stories are extremely varied in genre, theme, and style. 3. Superhero Comic Books How dare I bring that entirely pedestrian art-form into a discussion of LITERATURE ? Well, there\u2019s something to be said for Mitchell\u2019s \u00fcbernovel and its similarities to shared-universe superhero fiction. For those who are unaware, Mitchell\u2019s characters crop up over all of his work and minor players in one novel can become leads in the next. It goes the other way too: leads can drop into the background of other characters\u2019 tales. For now, the interconnected nature of the novels are just fun little Easter eggs for the Mitchell fanatics, but damn, they sure make me feel like I\u2019m reading literary comic books. So when Luisa Rey pops up to call into a radio show in Ghostwritten , or the eponymous ghostwriter visits Timothy Cavendish, I can\u2019t help but feel like Mitchell\u2019s world lives beyond its pages. 4. The Rest of the Mitchell Bibliography I\u2019ve been reading my Mitchell sparingly and in no proper order. With Ghostwritten finished, I just have Black Swan Green to have read the entirety of his \u00fcbernovel to date. Ghostwritten is Mitchell\u2019s debut and it is really compelling to see the genius that would put together Cloud Atlas in its relative infancy. Where Cloud Atlas feels more tempered in structure and writing style, Ghostwritten is loose and free. Though this makes for some truly fascinating stories, it also means that not each story is as compelling as the last. Some stories-- Hong Kong comes to mind-- are so manic that they are a bit exhausting to read, while others\u2014think Clear Island -- are a bit slower and bogged down by a disjointed structure that doesn\u2019t quite work. But for every story that underwhelmed me there were two that stunned me. The one-two punch of Holy Mountain and Mongolia show Mitchell at his most humanistic and playful. While the first story showed Mitchell\u2019s handle on culture and great female leads, the second story made me reframe the first with a supernatural twist. This kind of thing crops up all over Ghostwritten as Mitchell has the reader look through a filter at a story they thought they were done with. What\u2019s more, this is a good sampling of Mitchell\u2019s writing chops. You\u2019ve got sci-fi, romance, crime, thriller, mundane life, fantasy, and the compelling characters that make Mitchell\u2019s books soar. It has been fun to come to this first book having read most of what follows. Mitchell has definitely honed his skills since this first book, and I\u2019m happy that I read Ghostwritten to see the first shoots of what has become a sturdy and reliable tree. 5. OPTIONAL: A Hangover I can't say that I advise this as a pairing for Ghostwritten , but I finished off the novel this morning after a particularly large night. After all's said and done, it is a pretty good companion for the day after a night of excess. ...more I\u2019m wondering if you can tell a lot about a person by which of these stories she likes best. I approached the book as I do a collection of short stories, more interested in Mitchell\u2019s way with words and characters than whether or not the book turned out to be a novel. Each chapter is named for the location in which a first-person narrator is attempting to understand the particulars of his or her life and situation, despite all the attendant variables and possibilities. What each chapter or chara I\u2019m wondering if you can tell a lot about a person by which of these stories she likes best. I approached the book as I do a collection of short stories, more interested in Mitchell\u2019s way with words and characters than whether or not the book turned out to be a novel. Each chapter is named for the location in which a first-person narrator is attempting to understand the particulars of his or her life and situation, despite all the attendant variables and possibilities. What each chapter or character has to do with the others is a mystery that reading the book is supposed to solve, though one thing is clear from the start: the future of humanity and the survival of the planet are quite likely at stake. Ghostwritten is called a novel, the blurb telling me I\u2019m in for lives converging with fearful symmetry and coming full circle. Sounds good, but I read regardless, enjoying each chapter as a story unto itself, some more than others. My favorites are Clear Island, Holy Mountain, and Night Train, in that order. Along about Petersburg, my least favorite, the editor in me kicked in, the one who used to do a lot of content analysis and revision. I\u2019d get documents in need of sorting out, like puzzles put together not quite right, lacking logic or coherence or pieces; the authors knew their parts, but not necessarily how best to make a whole. Until I got tired of it, helping them figure things out was a game for me and fun. Along about Petersburg, I had connected some dots leading to the whole of Ghostwritten that was supposed to be a novel, enough to see that the stories were indeed puzzle pieces, though the dots were few and far between. Was I missing something, I wondered, or was it just a matter of time, of working through the full circle. I remembered how fun content analysis could be, and found myself wanting to finish the book so I could go back and analyze it, to examine how Mitchell crafted the work, to see if he seemed to really know what he was doing (and what I could learn from that) or if he was half-assed or just winging it or what. I still think it\u2019d be fun to do, but in the end I found the individual chapters so satisfying I didn\u2019t mind the novel remaining amorphous, and suspected that was the point. The novel seems the world in a way, each chapter a stop on a tour that amounts to no more than glimpses of the big picture. It seems clear to me that Mitchell\u2019s primary concerns are the nature of storytelling and the meaning of life, and he\u2019s exploring them through dynamics of scale, a kind of literary game of \u201cI spy\u201d: the individual and isolated as spied within the universal and contiguous. Clear Island, Holy Mountain, and Night Train are my favorite chapters not because everything in them converges, but because the details that converge and the details that don\u2019t are, as I read them, comparably essential and make the best stories. Clear Island is my very favorite because of how brilliantly physics and place and relationships work as metaphors. The narrator is an Irish physicist who\u2019s abandoned her American post and gone home (to Clear Island) because of America\u2019s militaristic plans for her scientific finds. She genuinely fears for the future of humanity should the American government get its way. In the process of fleeing the powers that be and reuniting with her family, she attempts to understand the particulars of her life within the larger physical and metaphysical contexts. Why am I who I am? Because of the double helix of atoms coiled along my DNA. What is DNA\u2019s engine of change? Subatomic particles colliding with its molecules. These particles are raining onto the Earth now, resulting in mutations that have evolved the oldest single-celled life-forms through jellyfish to gorillas and us, Chairman Mao, Jesus, Nelson Mandela, His Serendipity, Hitler, you and me. Evolution and history are the bagatelle of particle waves.\u201d (p. 360) I love that, but if asked to pick a favorite paragraph from the book, it would probably be this: What happens to all the seconds tipped into the bin of the past? And what happens to the other universes where electrons follow other paths, where thoughts and mutations and actions differ? Where I was captured in Huw\u2019s apartment? Where my father is still alive and my mother bright as the button she always was, where John never went blind, where my precocity and ambition were those of a farmer\u2019s wife, where nuclear weapons were invented by 1914, where Homo erectus went the same fossilized way as australopithecines, where DNA never zipped itself up, where stars were never born to die in a shroud of carbon and heavier elements, where the big bang crunched back under the weight of its own mass a few jiffies after it banged? Or are all these universes hung out, side by side, to drip dry?\u201d (p. 368) And the most daunting and hopeful and telling bit is probably this, though it is not how the book ends: The ground became land, the land an island, and Clear Island just another island among the larger ones and smaller ones . . . Finally, I understand how the electrons, protons, neutrons, photons, neutrinos, positrons, muons, pions, gluons and quarks that make up the universe, and the forces that hold them together, are one.\u201d (p. 371) Even had I not enjoyed the stories so much, I\u2019d consider the book worth reading for the fascinating things it did to my perspective of time and place and the significance of connections made or missed along the way. Somewhere and always it is Friday in Santa Monica. ...more Ghostwritten is one of those books which, halfway through, you know they are right in the 4-star territory and that the ending will be decisive as to whether it will be a 3, 4 or 5-star case. My rating tells a story. What a ride it was! In Ghostwritten David Mitchell invites us on a journey which starts in Okinawa and takes us to Tokyo, Honk Kong, Holy Mountain of China, Mongolia, Petersburg, London, Clear Island of Ireland and New York before it ends right where it started. Each chapter consists Ghostwritten is one of those books which, halfway through, you know they are right in the 4-star territory and that the ending will be decisive as to whether it will be a 3, 4 or 5-star case. My rating tells a story. What a ride it was! In Ghostwritten David Mitchell invites us on a journey which starts in Okinawa and takes us to Tokyo, Honk Kong, Holy Mountain of China, Mongolia, Petersburg, London, Clear Island of Ireland and New York before it ends right where it started. Each chapter consists of a different location, a different narrator and is another link in a long chain of events. If someone asked me what Ghostwritten is about, I'd be having a hard time answering so I'd probably use the following passage which, in my opinion, is pretty informative about the book: \"I feel you're being a little harsh on your more eccentric callers.\" \"Of the Howardly persuasion?\" \"Precisely. You undervalue them. Viruses in cashew nuts, visual organs in trees, subversive bus drivers waving secret messages to one another as they pass, impending collisions with celestial bodies. Citizens like Howard are the dreams and shadows that a city forgets when it awakes. They are purer than I.\" \"But you're a writer. They are lunatics.\" \"Lunatics are writers whose works write them, Bat.\" \"Not all lunatics are writers, Mrs Ray - believe me.\" \"But most writers are lunatics, Bat - believe me. The human world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed. You are holding one of these pages where these stories tell themselves, Bat. That's why I tune in. That's everything I wanted to say.\" Truth is, though, there are so many meanings between the lines and so many ways to interpret them, that it's ideal for endless discussions and exchange of opinions. I think that five different readers would provide five different opinions on Ghostwritten . The connections between the stories/chapters are so many and so subtle that it begs for a re-read. Seems to me that no matter how many times you read it, there will always be something new to notice. Reading Ghostwritten is a unique experience that resembles a dream. When I read the last page I felt kind of sad and realized I had become attached to the characters. It was like all the while I was in a trance-like state filled with images and pictures so magically painted, they were almost real. Now that I think about it, Ghostwritten is an extraordinary accomplishment not like any other debut novel I have read. All in all, my first Mitchell experience was more than satisfying and I'll definitely be coming back for more. ...more It\u2019s easy to miss an important reference, or two, or three, while reading a David Mitchell novel \u2013 I learned that the hard way. After flipping the final page of the Ghostwritten, I did one of these moves: (think Lou Costello) . Then I swallowed my pride and headed off to Wiki to find some answers. Here\u2019s me while reading Wikipedia\u2019s page on Ghostwritten: \u201cMissed that\u2026Definitely didn\u2019t see that\u2026Was that even in the book?...Hey, there\u2019s something I remember!\u201d I\u2019m exaggerating a little, but you get t It\u2019s easy to miss an important reference, or two, or three, while reading a David Mitchell novel \u2013 I learned that the hard way. After flipping the final page of the Ghostwritten, I did one of these moves: (think Lou Costello) . Then I swallowed my pride and headed off to Wiki to find some answers. Here\u2019s me while reading Wikipedia\u2019s page on Ghostwritten: \u201cMissed that\u2026Definitely didn\u2019t see that\u2026Was that even in the book?...Hey, there\u2019s something I remember!\u201d I\u2019m exaggerating a little, but you get the point. It\u2019s kind of brilliant when I think back now. The occasional semi-obvious reference linked these nine stories into one slightly-related entity. I caught most of those. Then there were the few subtle, yet mind-bending, references that spoke to the overall meaning. Sort of. Blink and you\u2019ll miss them \u2013 like me. I won\u2019t even try to spell out the plot here. My reason for picking up Ghostwritten is due to first reading, and very much liking, another of Mitchell\u2019s books, The Bone Clocks. No doubt I missed a few things in the midst of that one too, but if that\u2019s true, I had a lot more fun while doing so. And that\u2019s the thing with Ghostwritten. Fun was absent. Truth is I liked about three of the nine stories. At one point while reading, I thought of my little niece, and the time we pulled a variety of board games out of the closet. \u201cBorrrriiiing\u201d, she\u2019d loudly quip to each game offered up for play. Yeah, I was a little like that. This in no way means that I\u2019ll quit reading the David Mitchell books. I still think he\u2019s a brilliant writer, and I\u2019m drawn to this idea that all of his books are tied together, if only by the tiniest of threads. After Ghostwritten comes Number9Dream. Please be more fun. ...more Ghostwritten is a beautiful novel about human beings, their experiences and how we all effect each other. The novel is split up into different stories which each take up a different genre and a different tone and story. The first story of the novel is about a terrorist involved in a strange cult that's goal is to \"cleanse\" the world. This story sets the scene of the novel and ends up being extremely important as the novel goes on. After reading this one I was wondering where this novel would go Ghostwritten is a beautiful novel about human beings, their experiences and how we all effect each other. The novel is split up into different stories which each take up a different genre and a different tone and story. The first story of the novel is about a terrorist involved in a strange cult that's goal is to \"cleanse\" the world. This story sets the scene of the novel and ends up being extremely important as the novel goes on. After reading this one I was wondering where this novel would go and I knew I was in for an amazing joy ride of a book. Which it was. The ending was astonishing and blew me away if I wasn't already going to give it a 5 star rating the last 70 or so pages definitely convinced me to. Another one of the stories that stood out to me was the story about the tea lady and the story of her life. That story really showed the extent of human suffering. Regimes change and are overthrown and new ones take their place. When people rise up to destroy the current people in power it is usually because they are tired of the hardships and the suffering that they had to undergo. Yet as soon as those people gain power they again make those below them suffer until those rise up and replace them. \u201cAlways, it is the poor people who pay. And always, it is the poor people's women who pay the most.\u201d It is a vicious cycle that every nation has and is undergoing. This book reminds me very much of the show LOST how everyone is important in their own ways and how everything that happens can lead to bigger events. It also reminds the science geek in me of the transfer theory used in forensic science of how things can rub off on another person and have lasting impressions. A simple thing such as a handshake or saying hello to someone, or answering the phone call of a complete stranger can affect the course of people's lives and cause a rippling effect that can be felt around the globe. We all create these ripples which randomly bounce of each other causing bigger ripples the effects even more people until a simple thing can lead to a chain reaction that in some way affects the entire world. Think about that the next time you cut someone off in traffic or really do anything. Could this be the first incident that leads humanity to the end of the world? Again this makes you think of what actually is the probability of things occurring in your life. Take for example a car crash. What was the chance that the other car was at that spot at that exact moment. What was the chance of YOU being at that exact spot. Was it because you were speeding and running late because of something that happened at home? Probably if you looked at the exact numbers of the probability of the event occurring at that time when taking in all the elements the chance would be pretty small. But that's what it all really is\u2026 chance. Everything that we do and everything that happens in our lives boils all down to chance encounters and chance events. I really love thinking about life like that, as a series of chance. Chance is what brings you to what you are today. Life isn't planned out for us all because anyone/anything that somehow diverges from that plan causes the ripples which effect us all. It is amazing really. Life is made up of these chances that can really be described almost as miracles because the chance of things happening is so small it is basically a miracle that it happened at all. Fun Fact: Probability of your being born: one in 102,685,000 Chance that is what it all boils down to. \u201cIf you\u2019re in your life, chance. Viewed from the outside, like a book you\u2019re reading, it\u2019s fate all the way.\u201d Sorry I have pretty much diverged from the plot of the book but all that is what this book made me think of even long after I finished. What I really what I loved most about the story, Mitchell's attention to detail and the subtle ways he connects the stories together bringing an \"OMG thats the character from the other story!\" moment. I love how Mitchell can craft such unique stories and stitch them together in amazing ways. My favorite stories was the musician and the noncorpum. I loved the musician stories for the way it got me thinking about chance and really showed the whole theme of the novel. The noncorpum was also amazing because of how it showed it going from multiple characters and looking for meaning. At first I couldn't see how this story related to the others but then realized it was all about chance again. I'm mad that I left this book at home cause there was a quote about accidents that I loved that really helped me understand this story. The noncorpum in the story I believe was an accident made by the Irish physicist [spoilers removed]. Also a note on the Irish, they know how to party and stall CIA agents! This is overall an extremely powerful novel with a mind-blowing ending. I enjoyed Cloud Atlas better but this book was amazing for a first novel better than most author's first novels. Having read Cloud Atlas before this one it made me wonder if Mitchell had all his books planned out because of how he has his characters appear in multiple books and especially the comet-shaped tattoo. This is why I gave it all 5 stars because of how powerful and moving it was and I love when a book keeps me thinking long after I finish it. My hermano also wrote a review for this book as well which I think is amazing and a lot better than mine :) ...more I want to shout from the rooftops about how much I loved this book! I don't think this is going to be a very coherent review, as it's another of those books that is difficult to describe without giving everything away. Ghostwritten was David Mitchell's debut, published in 1999, and it is similar to his better-known Cloud Atlas in that it consists of a number of diverse - but interconnected - stories (and, indeed, a number of characters from that book also make appearances here). It's hugely ente I want to shout from the rooftops about how much I loved this book! I don't think this is going to be a very coherent review, as it's another of those books that is difficult to describe without giving everything away. Ghostwritten was David Mitchell's debut, published in 1999, and it is similar to his better-known Cloud Atlas in that it consists of a number of diverse - but interconnected - stories (and, indeed, a number of characters from that book also make appearances here). It's hugely entertaining, intellectually engaging, funny, fast-paced and addictive. It's been a long time since I read something that I really, really didn't want to tear myself away from, but lots of things, from work to TV to sleep, were jettisoned in favour of this book. As with my review of Cloud Atlas , I have briefly summarised what happens in each chapter below, so what follows may count as spoilers, although I have tried to avoid spoiling what might be considered plot points. However, if you haven't yet read Ghostwritten , I would advise you to skip the below - I think the surprise of each new chapter enhanced my enjoyment. 1. Okinawa: A member of a doomsday cult, responsible for an attack which has resulted in a number of deaths, flees the scene of his crime and attempts to go into hiding. 2. Tokyo: A jazz-obsessed teenage boy who works in a record store meets, and falls in love with, the girl of his dreams. 3. Hong Kong: A corrupt financial lawyer, with something of Patrick Bateman about him, hurtles towards a breakdown as he struggles to keep his dodgy dealings a secret. His narrative also touches on the disintegration of his marriage, an affair with the maid, and the apparent haunting of his flat by the ghost of a little girl. 4. Holy Mountain: A woman runs a tea shack outside a small village on one of China's holy mountains. This story differs from the others in that it spans her whole life, and shows the damaging effect of different periods of political unrest on her peaceful existence. 5. Mongolia: Even more unusual - the protagonist of this one is a disembodied entity which inhabits different individuals' minds and jumps from person to person by 'transmigrating' when they touch. It is searching for the secret of its existence through the only thing it remembers, a fragment of a folk tale, which seems to have originated in Mongolia. 6. Petersburg: A gallery attendant, a fading beauty with delusions of grandeur who is desperately clinging on to an abusive relationship, becomes caught up in an art heist. 7. London: A womanising drummer in a going-nowhere band, who also works as a ghostwriter, is dragged into a bet which involves gambling away all the money he has - despite the fact that he is already in a large amount of debt. 8. Clear Island: A brilliant scientist who is being pursued by agents of the US government returns to the tiny Irish island she grew up on. 9. Night Train: The host of a late-night radio show in New York receives a strange phone call from a person calling themselves 'the Zookeeper'. 10. Underground: The protagonist of the first story reappears, and this time is depicted in the midst of his attack, on an underground train. At first, I also started making a list of ways in which the stories are connected, but there were just too many. There's a lengthy list on the Wikipedia entry for this book , but even that isn't exhaustive - I spotted some that aren't listed there. My favourite of the stories? It has to be #6, Petersburg - I adored the protagonist, Margarita, and could easily have read a whole book about her story. However, I really loved ALL of them. I can't emphasise this enough. With short story compilations or novels made up of separate narratives, my overall opinion of the book often suffers because I find myself absolutely falling in love with one story/section, then being yanked out of that world and left with something I just don't enjoy in quite the same way. That didn't happen here, not because I didn't want any of the stories to be longer (I definitely did!) but because each new one was just as unique and engrossing as the last. I've really enjoyed the other David Mitchell books I've read, but this was the best (so far, anyway): it was everything I wanted Cloud Atlas to be. ...more Amazing first novel by a truly original writer who's fast becoming a favourite. It's possible I liked this one even better than his later, and better known, Cloud Atlas . Although the style he hones by CA is still a bit rough around the edges here, that roughness actually works in the novel's favour as structure and style did not threaten at any point to overwhelm substance/content. Mitchell's virtuosity employing different genres per story-chapter is less delineated here than in CA, but that agai Amazing first novel by a truly original writer who's fast becoming a favourite. It's possible I liked this one even better than his later, and better known, Cloud Atlas . Although the style he hones by CA is still a bit rough around the edges here, that roughness actually works in the novel's favour as structure and style did not threaten at any point to overwhelm substance/content. Mitchell's virtuosity employing different genres per story-chapter is less delineated here than in CA, but that again works in Ghostwritten's favour, I think, by uniting the story-chapters through more than just symbolism or discrete events. (although these nuggets are still sprinkled throughout for the reader to find like easter eggs - with as much delight). Perhaps because its various storylines are more contemporaneous (anchored by the real-life Tokyo subway gas attack), and less speculative-fictiony than CA, Ghostwritten feels more human and even humane, and the characters are easier to identify with. There is also the truly extraordinary way he describes place - from Hong Kong, to Tokyo, to Mongolia, to London, to Petersburg, to a remote Irish island (the novel really does span the globe); these descriptions alone are worth sticking with Mitchell on the journey, which goes to some truly dark and lonely places both geographical and psychological. Among the themes he explores, the spirituality-meets-technology one, and the search for / construction of meaning in a random universe, weave their way like DNA strands through the work, culminating in an elegant and breathless ending that neatly ties up most of the plot threads. Earlier inconsistencies are resolved and while some suspension of disbelief is required, the whole thing feels not just logically plausible - with the sense of foreboding doom that implies - but it also never loses the sense of human drama and angst, the poignant search for connection, place and purpose that each character embodies being shared, ultimately, between the reader (at least, this reader) and the novel. Mesmerizing, engrossing, very beautiful, very sad. ...more This book left me gasping, groaning, holding my exploding head. I have no idea how to review it. Here's a quote: \"Lunatics are writers whose works write them, Bat.\" \"Not all lunatics are writers, Mrs. Rey\u2014believe me.\" \"But most writers are lunatics, Bat\u2014believe me. The human world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed. You are holding one of the pages where these stories tell themselves . . .\" (311) Who are we? Who or what makes life happ This book left me gasping, groaning, holding my exploding head. I have no idea how to review it. Here's a quote: \"Lunatics are writers whose works write them, Bat.\" \"Not all lunatics are writers, Mrs. Rey\u2014believe me.\" \"But most writers are lunatics, Bat\u2014believe me. The human world is made of stories, not people. The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed. You are holding one of the pages where these stories tell themselves . . .\" (311) Who are we? Who or what makes life happen? Are we really in charge or even immutably moored to the personality and body we appear to inhabit? If not, who or what creates our lives? What and where is consciousness? These are some of the themes of this indescribable series of chapters that don't seem related for quite some time, and are so free-wheeling that you often don't know what is happening . . . yet you can't put it down. You read on. Who or what is author David Mitchell? I cannot comprehend the mind with this kind of imagination and massive reach. And the discipline to use it to write this symphony. I'm in awe. ...more FIRSTLY: If the entire novel had bristled with the same energy and momentum as the bottom half of the book (i.e., from \"Holy Mountain\" through to \"Night Train\") then my review here would bristle with five stars. That said, I also do not believe that those subsequent chapters could have been nearly as successful without the supporting cast of Okinawa, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. (Jury is still out on the closer, Underground.) David Mitchell delivers a very strong novel here. Stylistically, it is very m FIRSTLY: If the entire novel had bristled with the same energy and momentum as the bottom half of the book (i.e., from \"Holy Mountain\" through to \"Night Train\") then my review here would bristle with five stars. That said, I also do not believe that those subsequent chapters could have been nearly as successful without the supporting cast of Okinawa, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. (Jury is still out on the closer, Underground.) David Mitchell delivers a very strong novel here. Stylistically, it is very mature -- especially for a first novel from such a young author. He is able to bring themes, concepts, and phrases from one section into another apparently disjointed section fluidly, naturally and -- most of the time -- without that recurrence or repetition feeling like a gimmick. Mitchell is screwing with you (the reader), and you both know it, but the reason that you believe he is screwing with you is a little bit different than the reason he believes he is screwing with you. Meanwhile, the narrative has an agenda of its own. The comparisons to Haruki Murakami are justified but not all together accurate; Murakami blissfully and accidentally trips into an improbable parallel universe while Mitchell begrudgingly tries to inch his way back from a very possible tangential universe. Now there were two thematic elements of the story that jumped out at me as worthy of commenting upon: (1) Varying shades of apocalypse. Maybe my sensitivity to the subject is up because I'm also neck-deep in the John Joseph Adams collection \" Wastelands \" but there is a sense of penultimate destruction within each of the disjointed narratives in Ghostwritten . We start with a cult member trying to hurry along a very eschatological apocalypse and over the course of 400 more pages, we work our way through every flavor of personal or global threat we can stomach. The whimsical, speculative damnation of the \"Night Train\" component was clearly my favorite. (Though \"Holy Mountain\" blew my mind for the way tone and voice was used as the treatment for personal and national world-ending.) (2) Have any other readers picked up on the sub-text that concerns conception and birth? Every one of these tales somehow works in a child (real or imagined, material or emblematic) that I presume is supposed to function as a cue for each story's theme. But the children aren't safe and sound. They're adopted orphans, aborted fetuses, ghosts of infanticide, bastards, parents that can't conceive, a precocious matricidal AI... I have not quite figured out this sub-text yet (hence the \"to-re-read\" shelving) but it's definitely there. And it is haunting me. ...more \u201cMemories are their own descendents masquerading as the ancestors of the present.\u201d \u2015 David Mitchell, Ghostwritten So Kill me. I really like David Mitchell, and reading this knowing it was his first novel is one of those things you can only really believe if you've read his other novels. This seems like an embryonic version of Cloud Atlas, with a lot of the same ideas, themes, and even a borrowed character or two. But that seems unfair, because most floret-novels never actually seem beautiful befo \u201cMemories are their own descendents masquerading as the ancestors of the present.\u201d \u2015 David Mitchell, Ghostwritten So Kill me. I really like David Mitchell, and reading this knowing it was his first novel is one of those things you can only really believe if you've read his other novels. This seems like an embryonic version of Cloud Atlas, with a lot of the same ideas, themes, and even a borrowed character or two. But that seems unfair, because most floret-novels never actually seem beautiful before their time. This one seems both a shinny fetus and world-ready. This baby was my JAM. Yes, there are/were times (each of his books have several TIMES) when Mitchell's transcendent/jazzy/flash*flash/UnitedColorsofBeneton schtick gets a little tired, but he still pulls it off. Kind of like when I'm watching the Winter Olympics and I get a little overwhelmed by the flamboyance of the whole we-are-the-world-in-tights routine, but I still end up watching most of the crazy programing. Anyway, it was fun to read and to already know the future. I read this already knowing that Mitchell wasn't going to be a one-hit-wonder, that his best books were ahead of him, that he would always have an Asian thing, that the Wachowskis/Tom Hanks would almost RUIN Cloud Atlas for me, that I would read every book he ever publishes, and usually buy several copies in many formats for several friends. ...more I read this with \u201cGoodness, and this was his first novel!\u201d going through my head the whole time. It is a remarkably bold, nay even reckless, piece of writing. Mitchell manages to express the fragmentation of the modern world, and at the same time its connectedness. The fragmentation is characterised by its form, a series of episodes that take us from Okinawa to Tokyo and all points West until in the end we have been right round the world and back to Okinawa. These are not short stories, they do I read this with \u201cGoodness, and this was his first novel!\u201d going through my head the whole time. It is a remarkably bold, nay even reckless, piece of writing. Mitchell manages to express the fragmentation of the modern world, and at the same time its connectedness. The fragmentation is characterised by its form, a series of episodes that take us from Okinawa to Tokyo and all points West until in the end we have been right round the world and back to Okinawa. These are not short stories, they do not have a narrative arc within themselves, they form a part of a whole: characters from one episode will re-appear in another, or events in one will have rippling effects further on. The connectedness is sometimes a bit hokum, taking the form of a spirit, which even appears as a body-jumping narrator in one section. There are issues here that Mitchell resolves much more successfully in Cloud Atlas. The narratives here are nearly all first person, but there\u2019s little indication of the narrative situation, of where when and why these characters are telling their story, and some of the voices themselves are less convincing, less memorable, less compelling. The linking idea is harder to detect sometimes; in the end the whole thing is a bit like that film Babel, showing how random events in one place can affect apparently unconnected people around the world, but the driving force that forges Cloud Atlas into a whole is too weak to do the job in Ghostwritten. Some parts are very impressive, but others are hard to get through. Uneven. ...more Can anybody assist me in acquiring the memory-wiping gizmo from the movie Men in black? Because I need to erase the last two chapters of this book from my conscious. Why, my sweet David, why? Why did you have to write the last two chapters and shit all over the book which is otherwise mindblowingly sublime? Do you realize how close I was from gaining that glorious, exhilarating 5-star-rating reading experience? Do you even have the slightest idea how excruciatingly difficult it gets for a cycinal Can anybody assist me in acquiring the memory-wiping gizmo from the movie Men in black? Because I need to erase the last two chapters of this book from my conscious. Why, my sweet David, why? Why did you have to write the last two chapters and shit all over the book which is otherwise mindblowingly sublime? Do you realize how close I was from gaining that glorious, exhilarating 5-star-rating reading experience? Do you even have the slightest idea how excruciatingly difficult it gets for a cycinal \"hard-to-please\" book lover like me to come across a book that emanates the 5 star magic? Do you?? DO YOU?? I was so so close with your book, I felt in my bones, it so palpable that I had almost grabbed it and made it my own. And then you went ahead and peed all over my ligering, blazing desires with your shit-stinking last 80 pages. I hope you are smugly enjoying your pretentious English lemon tea in your grand london home made out of ashes of my burned expectations and tears, you devious, writes-like-an-angle, monster! There, 3.5 stars. You happy now? Detail review to come... ...more Four stars, or even four and a half stars cannot adequately define this novel, yet five stars appears overgenerous. Though Ghostwritten is a brilliantly ambitious novel it is also a tangled and convoluted novel. If you as a reader disliked Cloud Atlas it is unlikely that you would find this novel any better. Where Cloud Atlas seemed a more whole and structured novel this felt a little more twisted and in sections muddled knots of prose appeared to form. That said it shall receive five stars as a Four stars, or even four and a half stars cannot adequately define this novel, yet five stars appears overgenerous. Though Ghostwritten is a brilliantly ambitious novel it is also a tangled and convoluted novel. If you as a reader disliked Cloud Atlas it is unlikely that you would find this novel any better. Where Cloud Atlas seemed a more whole and structured novel this felt a little more twisted and in sections muddled knots of prose appeared to form. That said it shall receive five stars as a standing indication of the type of novel this was revealed as in the end. My perception of the author's work David Mitchell appears to be, like most authors and readers, interested in stories. He appears particularly interested in the stories that bind together cultures, identities, individuals and events. He is also fascinated in challenging and analysing the various perceived realities of the world. In many ways this makes him a relatable author to myself, appealing to me through his novel's thematic values and his metalinguistic approach to writing. He reminds me, in how his characters reappear in various novels of Brandon Sanderson. However where Sanderson in Mistborn: The Final Empire and other books is interested in creating a shared fantasy universe of different worlds and magic systems David Mitchell seems to throw his characters into different books simply as part of playing around. He seems to genuinely enjoy playing with words and seeing what can be done. His work is experimental literary pulp and often comes across as too sterilistically* pristine or in some ways smug. However I view this perceived smugness as more the personal fancy of an author playing about with ideas and words slightly beyond him in some measures. Certainly this novel lacks the same linking ability and refinement I enjoyed in Cloud Atlas but the big ideas and interesting ideas are still present in this novel. Reality Ghostwritten had two main themes which I particularly found interesting. In following nine characters across nine stories with links between each Mitchell I believe attempts to discuss the idea of how realities intersect between individuals. By this I mean the ways in which my reality might interact and cut across the reality of another person. Mitchell links together each story in a way that while less structured than Cloud Atlas ends up forming a unique loop of continuity. Lovers witnessed by one character may become key characters in the next story, an artificial intelligence may be seen as the god figure of a death cult and so on the links continue until you end the story in a manner not dissimilar to the film Memento (though I believe that film is far more fascinating than this book's plotted course). What I mean to say is that Mitchell starts with one line and almost ends virtually on the same line. In this way he questions how various characters intersect in life and how there is some kind of continuity despite differences in continuity. I believe that what Mitchell tries to do is challenge his readers to question their realities. As one of his characters notes: \"Disbelieving the reality beneath your feet gives you licence to print your own.\" ** Stories The interesting thing that I reflected upon while reading this book was how many stories had gone into creating this one work. Originality in literature is a hotly debated topic*** particularly in genres which depend upon originality to develop such as fantasy and science fiction. My view on the subject is that originality develops through a unique mixture of the stories that have gone before. It is impossible for someone to have a story completely free of other stories. If those stories are mixed correctly there will be a unique narrative. That is what I love about childhood favourites such as The Lord of the Rings , The Chronicles of Narnia or even Peter Pan as I come back to them in young adulthood. I see that they build upon stories gone before in their own special way. In the same way Ghostwritten is a novel created out of the various stories Mitchell has no doubt devoured. I felt hints of Douglas Adams, F.Scott Fitzgerald, Anton Chekhov, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Franz Kafka to name a persona few and caught references to other writers such as Nabokov****, Tolstoy*****, Graham Greene******, Samuel Becket******* and perhaps even Dostoyevsky********. In this way the book serves as an argument in many ways as to the power of literature and the novel. Non-fiction teaches us many truths but so too can fiction by cognitive estrangement, taking those things, those realities we accept into a strange environment and forcing us to consider the truth of it all. The characters of this novel (arcane terrorists, seductress art thieves, body snatching spirits, men struggling to get by, radio jockeys, vilified women, travellers, young lovers...) may not be typical. I for one am yet to find a parasitic body jumping spirit for instance. However in their atypicality there is an example of humanity, elements which by taking them out of the normal environment serves to reflect upon the seething mass of people who exist. They remind the reader that every person, no matter where they come from, is an individual amidst a crowd of different individuals, individuals whose stories are often lost - as ghostwriters are lost behind the story of another individual. Conclusion As the book states: \"The act of memory is an act of ghostwriting.\" Mitchell's overall unsubtle exaggeration in this book is that we are all ghostwriters for the world around us. However despite Mitchell's tendency to often 'lay it on thick' this is well worth reading. I highly recommend this novel particularly if you liked Cloud Atlas and could navigate that book easily enough. David Mitchell may appear more profound than he is at times but its in the things he hints at for the reader personally that the beauty and magic of his writing exists. *this should be a proper adjective **p.401 for anyone who cares (i.e maybe me) ***I'm very glad everyone is so different since it means there are people to debate with ****Okay I promise to get around to reading him some time soon, suggestions? *****Him too! ******And him! *******Him too! ********And yeah I have books to read :) ...more 3.5 The ghost of reading haunted me as I traveled earlier this month: I'd started A Journal of the Plague Year with my destination being Amsterdam and that city is mentioned in Defoe's first paragraph; I switched to this book rather quickly and as I was flying into Copenhagen, I met the Danish character Caspar; I was in the city when the Irishwoman Mo mentions \"Custard from Copenhagen\". The theme of the interconnectedness of the many inhabitants of our planet hit me hard when we kept running into 3.5 The ghost of reading haunted me as I traveled earlier this month: I'd started A Journal of the Plague Year with my destination being Amsterdam and that city is mentioned in Defoe's first paragraph; I switched to this book rather quickly and as I was flying into Copenhagen, I met the Danish character Caspar; I was in the city when the Irishwoman Mo mentions \"Custard from Copenhagen\". The theme of the interconnectedness of the many inhabitants of our planet hit me hard when we kept running into the same people on our trip, from an Amsterdam museum to an Oslo hotel to a Copenhagen ferry to a city shuttle and onto the streets themselves. Sure, we were all tourists, but we were bescarved wives; a young family with a huge stroller; a sharp-nosed, iron-haired woman with a nondescript companion; and a solitary distracted orange-haired woman from the States. As if it were Mitchell's human-blood-carrying mosquito, the ghost buzzed in my ear, mocking me for what I said in my review of Atwood's The Year of the Flood , showing me that coincidences don't work just in Dickens' novels. Mitchell has been accused of great writing that has no meaning, but I think the opposite is true of this, his first work: much meaning can be found here, but the prose is perhaps overly ambitious, despite lucid, perceptive paragraphs scattered throughout. ...more<---C>David Mitchell</---C>", "Title": "Ghostwritten"},
