{"Comments": "Good Grief, how many boyfriends does one girl need? It's starting to get a little ludicrous. Maybe I'm just not in my normal-teenage-girl state of mid @ the moement but I did not like this book. Seriously, the writing annoyed me ALOT for the first hundred pages(like, you know how they're always talking about how Zoey never curses, well she cursed a little bit in a beginning and they ALL still acted like it was totally normal for her to be cursing when you know Aphrodite would've been like \"whoa\") And what was with all the \"Damien an Jack\" are gay parade in the beginning? Really, we've r Maybe I'm just not in my normal-teenage-girl state of mid @ the moement but I did not like this book. Seriously, the writing annoyed me ALOT for the first hundred pages(like, you know how they're always talking about how Zoey never curses, well she cursed a little bit in a beginning and they ALL still acted like it was totally normal for her to be cursing when you know Aphrodite would've been like \"whoa\") And what was with all the \"Damien an Jack\" are gay parade in the beginning? Really, we've read about it for the past 4 books I think we're over it, and the gays-are-good-cooks joke was really annoying. And it seemed like they were trying WAY TOO HARD to get the characters to sound like \"normal teenagers\". Honestly Casts, just because they talk like us doesn't make them LIKE us and it doesn't convince your READERS that the characters are all confused about lots of things. They're supposed to NOT be like us. They're supposed to be vastly more mature and maybe nervous and a little scared.<---F> And the dialogue was crap</---F>. I know you're supposed to fit a lot of info in a little space but it seemed like they were going through like 3 different personality changes while they talked for one paragraph. And what was with the Kalona \"You're my A-ya..my love!\" thing? I know PC is a romance novelist but COME ON. Does Zoe REALLY have to have every kind of important figure guy that stumbles into the plot? Also, I know people say that she wasn't as hoe-ish as she was in Chosen(and she wasn't) but she did have her moments. Like now she has three \"boyfriends\" AGAIN. And it seems like the Casts have invented a way for her to keep her whore urges excusable. She can have a Vamp Mate AND a human consort AND Stark is her Warrior so she gets to keep ALL of them. Instead of,<---M> I don't know</---M>, DUMPING Erik(leaving him to be with one of the many girls who like him) or Trying to Successfully get the idea that her and Heath are only friends through Heath's head or letting Stark go be some kind of manwhore at the House of Night. ...more This review contains spoilers for earlier books in the series and mild spoilers for HUNTED. HUNTED is very much a \"middle\" book in the House of Night Series, a bridge between the first and second halves of Zoey's story. Zoey and her friends are hiding from the reincarnated fallen angel Kalona ad his evil Raven Mockers, as well as Neferet, who has become the Queen Tsi Sgili. Zoey will need to use all her power and lean on her friends if she means to defeat Kalona. But does she want to? She's been This review contains spoilers for earlier books in the series and mild spoilers for HUNTED. HUNTED is very much a \"middle\" book in the House of Night Series, a bridge between the first and second halves of Zoey's story. Zoey and her friends are hiding from the reincarnated fallen angel Kalona ad his evil Raven Mockers, as well as Neferet, who has become the Queen Tsi Sgili. Zoey will need to use all her power and lean on her friends if she means to defeat Kalona. But does she want to? She's been dreaming of him... To quote Zoey, \"well, hell\". For all of HUNTED, Zoey and company are between rocks and hard places, usually a wall or a creature of some sort. The trouble that came to light in UNTAMED comes to a peak in HUNTED, although there can be no doubt that the next four books are needed to finish the story. I think it might have been possible to finish the series here, although it would have been a longer novel then. And honestly, do we want it to end? No. I did feel a little overwhelmed by the sheer amount of characters and plot threads and built up gunk from the past four novels, but the end of HUNTED looks as though much of that will be wiped away. The writing is just as fresh and informed as ever, Kristin Cast's in-touch-ness with real teens showing through. Definitely a must read for fans of House of Night or vampire fiction in general. ...more Condensed, edited version taken from my blog. Not long ago I finished reading the fifth instalment in the Cast's House of Night Series, <+++>Hunted</+++>. This is about the point where I give a frustrated sigh. Oh my, is it a frustrated sigh. First of, there is a story in there somewhere. An interesting story that could potentially make a good novel but it's been swallowed by chaotic, repetitive, stereotypical, shallow muck. I really hope that this novel is only the stepping stone to another part of the story Condensed, edited version taken from my blog. Not long ago I finished reading the fifth instalment in the Cast's House of Night Series, <+++>Hunted</+++>. This is about the point where I give a frustrated sigh. Oh my, is it a frustrated sigh. First of, there is a story in there somewhere. An interesting story that could potentially make a good novel but it's been swallowed by chaotic, repetitive, stereotypical, shallow muck. I really hope that this novel is only the stepping stone to another part of the story because if this is setting the tone for the future of the series then it's going to get far worse. Not that the previous novels in the series were master pieces with the repetition, stereotyping and all the other faults but it was interesting and the main story wasn't lost or marred as much by all the triviality. Plus the characters changed and you didn't always know who was bad and who was good. The book continues on from the last quite well with Zoey recounting how they made it to their particular location. That part isn't too bad because you expect a bit of explanation about the previous novels in the series but soon you realise that doesn't stop there, it carries on but with the present novel. Through out the story, almost all the characters, have to explain everything that has happened to each other repeatedly. There's no short catch up explaining the main character just caught whoever up on the news so the reader doesn't have to read it over and over again. No, none of that. Then there is the obsession with the gay characters. I'm bisexual, I love gay characters but that doesn't mean we have to be reminded every few lines or have the reference \"gay this\" and \"gay that\" so much. It's fine if it's just pointed out that there's a gay couple but it's followed by more \"gay\" comments about them cooking, squealing etcetera with gay tacked in front of it and at some point in the previous novels I started to wonder if the writer was giving her self a pat on the back because she included homosexual characters and wanted to make sure we knew. Just like she had to make sure we knew everything else by explaining it to us. For instance, words (damn it, write a dictionary if you want to explain words), the storyline (over and over and over and over....), how hot everyone is or at least how perfect and then there's the love triangles. This is one of the main things that takes away from the interesting story and just turns it into being about boys and the character being a whingy, whimpy idiot. She can't seem to make up her mind about any boys that she likes and guess what? All the hot guys want a piece of her and so far there is really only one guy who isn't considered hot. So most of the story is her obsessing over all these boys and what she is going to do about them when the world as she knows it is coming to an end and everyone is in danger. Way to get the priorities sorted. If you knew nothing about teenagers (maybe you slept through your teen years and then have been living on Mars since) and this was your only reference to them then you'd come away thinking they were boy obsessed, daft (because the characters take a long time to figure things out), have bad memories because they repeat themselves so much, are really, really shallow and that teenage girls can go around cheating on their boyfriends, stringing boys along and eventually getting away with it because the boys will still love them. So basically it was entertaining trash given the underlying story but really annoying at the same time. Not that I'm really annoyed with the story, it's the authors that have done my head in so I'll be reading the next one because I want to know what happens with the bigger picture and to see if this is only a transition novel. ...more Okay, so the House of Night series is seriously one of the most guilty pleasure-ish young adult series I've read. Emphasis on the guilty part. You know when you go to the airport, and you're waiting at your gate for your flight, and you look over at the little old lady sitting next to you? She might be reading a book, but she's angled it so that you can't quite see what it is. But she seems really into it, and you start to wonder what she's reading. Then maybe something happens and she readjusts Okay, so the House of Night series is seriously one of the most guilty pleasure-ish young adult series I've read. Emphasis on the guilty part. You know when you go to the airport, and you're waiting at your gate for your flight, and you look over at the little old lady sitting next to you? She might be reading a book, but she's angled it so that you can't quite see what it is. But she seems really into it, and you start to wonder what she's reading. Then maybe something happens and she readjusts herself, and the cover of her book flashes into view, and you see a shirtless Fabio-type man with long, flowy hair holding a busty woman whose corset dress is looking rather askew. It has a title like \"Seduced by a Rogue Lord\" or \"The Virgin's Wicked Deed\", and you feel a blush rising to your cheeks, and you think to yourself, Why the hell would she be reading that in public?! Well, that's kind of how I feel about House of Night. Let's be honest with ourselves here--House of Night is hardly a work of ground-breaking literature. It's pure and utter book candy, something you know is bad for you, but you just keep eating and eating because you can't stop. And oh, how delicious the candy is. Which brings me to Hunted , the fifth installment of the series. I'll admit, I actually wasn't really looking forward to this book that much, just because I felt that Untamed was quite a bit of a letdown, both story-wise and writing-wise. After three completely squee-worthy books, the fourth just wasn't up to par. So, then came this one. And I'm pleased to say that Cast and Cast are finally back on their game. Well, as much as one can be on their game when writing a series with a fairly ridiculous premise, and complete Mary Sue of a main character, and cookie cutter villains. But you know what? All of that doesn't really bother me that much. Because honestly? The books are just so entertaining to read. For the most part. Yes, Zoey is absolutely perfect . She's been blessed with these powers that nobody else has, she's destined for great things, she makes stupid mistakes and faces pretty much no consequences for them, and she's definitely got the Anita Blake factor going for her-- everybody wants to sleep with her. Erik wants to sleep with her, even though he spent most of book four simultaneously hating her and trying to make her miserable. Heath wants to sleep with her even though he pretty explicitly said in book four that he never wanted to be with her again. Stark wants to sleep with her, even though they've only known each other for like, one day. Kalona wants to sleep with her because she's A-ya reincarnated. Hell, I bet Loren Blake still wants to sleep with her from beyond the grave. The only males who don't want to sleep with Zoey are the gay ones. Speaking of gay, I don't really know why, but Cast and Cast seem to think that they have to make Damien and Jack really, really gay. I mean, so stereotypically gay that you wonder if they're going to strap a rainbow banner on their chests and start marching through the streets. As someone who knows several gay people, I can say with a fair amount of certainty that not all of them get really emotional every time something moderately frightening occurs, are obsessed with clothes and shopping, can cook really well, and basically act like they're the equivalent of a 12-year-old girl with menstrual cramps. I think pretty much everyone is familiar with homosexuals--we don't need Cast and Cast to overdo it like they are. As for the plot, it was pretty solid. Slow at first, but definitely picked itself up. It was fairly predictable, but what else can you expect from the book equivalent of marshmallow pudding? The only gripe I have is that it wasn't edited properly in a couple places. There were a few grammatical errors, and sometimes the authors mixed up Darius and Damien. Also, at the very end, they call Zoey's grandmother Stevie Rae's grandmother. But it wasn't too distracting. All in all, as much as I'm embarrassed to admit it, I had fun with Hunted . I wouldn't whip it out at the airport because I'd be a bit worried about what people would think of me, but I can safely enjoy it in private. 4 out of 5 stars for really guilty entertainment but not really much else... ...more To see full review and to vote on whether or not I continue my quest to read this series click here . Sometimes I don't even know why I bother. I am a goal oriented person. Seriously, I have like post it notes on my desk with day goals, week goals, year goals, life goals...you get the picture. And being goal oriented is a good thing. But at this point with the House of Night books...I don't know if I can continue it guys I really don't. Not after I read Hunted. This book... I understand why many peop To see full review and to vote on whether or not I continue my quest to read this series click here . Sometimes I don't even know why I bother. I am a goal oriented person. Seriously, I have like post it notes on my desk with day goals, week goals, year goals, life goals...you get the picture. And being goal oriented is a good thing. But at this point with the House of Night books...I don't know if I can continue it guys I really don't. Not after I read Hunted. This book... I understand why many people have quit the series after this installment. And it's not because this book is any more offensive than the rest (though if the character Karmisha would've been highlighted any more I think it could've approached that territory). It's just that this installment...it just showcases what's wrong with this series. I thought of reviewing this book several ways: interviewing characters from the book, writing a letter to Mrs. and Ms. Cast expressing my disdain, writing a review where I praise this book for doing what it is....essentially shitting on the written word. But all those ideas, they were too good for this book. And since this is supposed to be a drinking game feature, I just decided to list some things you could drink for. Specifically, the top ten things that offended me the most about Hunted. 10) Not so subtle My Immortal references: Just admit your Tara Gillesbie, Kristin. The evidence is all there. Count Chocola, a main character that looks like Michelle \"Bombshell\" McGee, multiple characters in love with the MC, perverts on campus. Heck, there's even a scene where Zoey's running around campus naked like Ebony. And one of the love interests has red eyes like vampire. God, if you haven't read this fan fic. Read it. The grammar's atrocious (hence, why PC probably had to help write this book), but it's all there I swear. Okay, it's just my opinion and I know in reality that Kristin Cast and Tara Gilesbie are two different individuals, but I just can't help but wonder. I just can't. 9) Brand Spanking New Characters: There were like fifteen or so new characters introduced in this installment. I really can't remember who was who and don't care. They serve no purpose just like most of those characters they forced upon us in the second season of Young Justice just to sell toys and look what happened to that show...seriously, Lagoon Boy and Blue Beetle (okay, I got Blue's role, but I never liked him. I'd rather focus on the characters we were introduced to in season one). 8) The Entire Plot (What There is of it): The first one hundred and forty pages are a complete waste. And when they go back to the school...it doesn't even make sense. Couldn't they like get a vampyre healer? I mean, they're getting everything else brought into those tunnels. Heck, they even have running water? Is it really that hard to find some sort of medicine woman (like Dr. Quinn) to come and cure Zoey. Or better yet let Zoey die. That would've made a lot more sense than what did happen and been quasi poignant. Honestly, the plot holes are what made the plot and that's just sort of sad. 7) Bastardizing Religions/Mythologies/Cultures/History--a.k.a. being a Cast with \"imagination\" You might think taking different mythologies and mixing them together would be a smart thing to do. I guess if you did it correctly, it would. But when mess up certain aspects about some of the mythology your using and have no explanation-say for the fact your using a Cherokee legend that took place thousands of years ago and try to make it take place in Oklahoma when it's historically known that a part of the Cherokee tribe only moved to Oklahoma because of Andrew Jackson and the Trail of Tears (while small portions of the tribe hid in the North Carolina mountains and still reside in the state today), you have one big mess. Then again, calling every celebrity and their mother sort of gives you a clue of credibility of your made up mythology. 6) Contradictions The Casts love to contradict themselves and they love to do it through long info dumps. Honestly, at this point...anything goes and I no longer even care. But I hate having to read these convoluted explanations. And I'm like, why even bother you'll just contradict yourself whenever you find it necessary. 5) Useless Dialogue It's not offensive, so much as annoying. But really, really, half of this book could've been edited out. That's how useless some (if not most) of the dialogue is. It just got really annoying after awhile. 4) Rape Culture: There's an attempted rape in this book. And the way it's handled is disgusting. First of all, it was okay for the victim to be almost assaulted because the character that attempted to rape her was hot. And for that, she endures slut slamming by are sanctimonious heroine. Oh, and did I mention the attempted rapist barely got his hand slap. Nope, it's his victim who faces the consequences. 3) The Love Interests: Seems a weird thing to be offended by. But the love interests are pathetic. All of them. And what would that be five (no six if you count dead Loren) at this point in time. Let me list them: Heath (Sir Douche): Appears randomly, cals Zoey-Z, we're told he's a gentleman, but it's obviously he's really a douche. Oh, and he and Zoey shared or share an imprint and you know how I feel about imprinting.... Erik (Prince Eric): He's too good for Zoey. Obviously. And there's really not much to him, he's like a Disney character. Though he's always described as looking like Superman. Guess the Casts never heard that Batman is the hot DC character not Superman, but whatever. Loren (Mr. Mary Kay Laterno): He's dead now. But he and Zoey had sex. He claimed to really love Neferet, but we all know what he was probably thinking..... Stark (Iron Man): New kid in school who Zoey has an insta connection too. He dies comes back evil but through the power of love (hey....don't get drunk while reading this review). Kalona (Kocoum): This fallen angel based on Native American legend who apparently thinks Zoey is Wonder Woman (well, a maiden made of clay that's close enough) or something. He's completely evil, but because he's hot Zoey thinks she likes him. 2) Zoey: Is she supposed to be likable? I don't know what I'm supposed to get out of my main character. Honestly, the only thing Zoey talks about other than brown pop is her pathetic love life. And as you cans see from my list I drink just whenever that's talked about. So yeah, that makes her offensive in that regard. And then there's the fact that she's just so judgmental, bitchy, and just unlikeable in general. I can't believe anyone would like this bitch given some of the things she has said. 1) Stereotypes: This is a reoccurring problem throughout the series, but it grated on my nerves a little bit more this time around. Probably because of the character Karmisha who is supposed to be the sassy African American from the ghetto stereotype. It's disgusting how the Casts portray her. And to make matters worse, they completely shove her in our faces so that we have to like her. I think that was probably my biggest issue because with Damen even though they stereotype him in the fullest (seriously, in every book we're told in some not so obvious way that he's gay), they don't spend a full twenty minutes trying to get us to instantly like him like they did with Karmisha. Plus, there was no need for the Karmisha character in this book. They already had a poet, but I guess the Casts just wanted to add more token characters in their book and token characters they have a plenty. Let's look at some of the stereotyping that goes on here, specifically concerning her: Introduction to Karmisha: \"A black girl twitched out of the group. It was a testament to how distracted I'd been with Venus and Aphrodite and Stevie Rae that I hadn't noticed her before then. She had on a form -fitting bright yellow shirt cut low to show the top of her black lace bra and a pair of high-waisted, skintight cropped jeans that were cinched up with a wide leather belt that matched her chunky gold shoes. Her hair was cut geometrically into a short poof on her head, and half of it was dyed bright orange.\" (Cast and Cast 35). Karmisha's first line: \" \"Let's get it straight right now that I'm not sharin' my bed with no one,' Karmisha said, weaving her head around and looking bored and pissed off at the same time (35). And another brilliant quote of Karmisha's: \" 'Look, he had wings. That ain't right,' Kramisha added, fragmenting my attention. 'My mma told me don't trust no white boy, even a pretty one. I'm thin' a pretty white boy with wings explodin' up form the ground in a mess of blood and ugly-ass bird things is double trouble.' \" (42). I'd like to interject at this point that the guy she's talking about is Kalona who originates from an Native American folklore and is described looking like a Native American. And as far as I know, Native Americans aren't white. So, I want your thoughts. Should I continue or not? I really hate giving up on a goal but after reading this maybe...maybe you can understand if this is the last time I ever read about <---C>Zoey Redbird</---C> and her shitious life. ...more I enjoy the House of Night series but the repetitiveness is starting to get really annoying.Yes we know Jack and Damien are gay. Yes we know Shaunee and Erin are \"twins\",one black and the other white.Yes we know Aphrodite is a bitch and that Stevie Ray is a country girl.We DON'T need to be reminded of it every other page of every freaking book.Not to mention i fear that Zoey is turning into a giant ho cake with ho icing. And all the men she thinks she wants/loves are little ho sprinkles on top. Reviewed by LadyJay for TeensReadToo.com Zoey Redbird is back in the fifth installment of the HOUSE OF NIGHT series. When last we left Zoey, all hell (literally) was breaking loose inside the vampyre school. I am sad to say that her predicament has gone from bad to worse. Neferet, current High Priestess at the House of Night, has declared war on all human beings. To aid in her quest, Neferet has called forth an ancient evil that cannot be destroyed. Kalona, a fallen angel, has risen from the dept Reviewed by LadyJay for TeensReadToo.com Zoey Redbird is back in the fifth installment of the HOUSE OF NIGHT series. When last we left Zoey, all hell (literally) was breaking loose inside the vampyre school. I am sad to say that her predicament has gone from bad to worse. Neferet, current High Priestess at the House of Night, has declared war on all human beings. To aid in her quest, Neferet has called forth an ancient evil that cannot be destroyed. Kalona, a fallen angel, has risen from the depths of the earth with Neferet's help. He is an immortal who believes that Zoey is his chosen one - the one who trapped him decades ago inside the confines of the earth. Zoey's task is great. She and her friends will be forced to use their abilities to help rid the world of Kalona once again, and sabotage Neferet's master plan. By calling the five elements, Zoey, Shaunee, Erin, Stevie Rae, and Damien are declaring a war of their own - to stop Neferet and Kalona, no matter the cost. The Cast duo has done it again! These ladies appear to be an unstoppable force within the world of YA literature. The energy and integrity of the first four novels has not been diminished in this fifth installment. The characters' personalities are as vibrant as ever, and the story remains engaging and original. Teenage readers will be drawn to Zoey's everyday, angst-riddled life. Not only does she need to save the world, Zoey needs to solve some major vampyre/human boy drama. These stories are surreal, yet shockingly accurate when it comes to teenagers and their lives. Here's to hoping for many more HOUSE OF NIGHT novels to follow! ...more I tried to finish this. I really did. But when the main character of a book annoys you so much you can hardly stand turning the page, something's got to give. I mean, COME ON. How many guys does Zoey need? It was just getting a bit ridiculous. I was happy when it seemed that Zoey was happily dating Erik (who is pretty irritating anyway, but whatever, it's not my fictional life) in this book. Then Heath pops back up again . It's not only the fact that every single guy character in this series (apar I tried to finish this. I really did. But when the main character of a book annoys you so much you can hardly stand turning the page, something's got to give. I mean, COME ON. How many guys does Zoey need? It was just getting a bit ridiculous. I was happy when it seemed that Zoey was happily dating Erik (who is pretty irritating anyway, but whatever, it's not my fictional life) in this book. Then Heath pops back up again . It's not only the fact that every single guy character in this series (apart from the painfully stereotypical gay friends) seems to fall instantly in love with Zoey that annoys me. It's the fact that she can't just pick one and be done with it. Heath's been following her around for four books now. Cut the guy a break. Tell him you're not interested, even if it's not completely true. Stop leading him on. I can appreciate a love triangle as much as the next person, but considering Zoey's love life doesn't come close to resembling something as logical as a three-sided plane shape, Hunted was just too much for me to handle. Definitely not continuing with the rest of this series. ...more This series is fun, if you don't look too closely. ;) It's brain candy, like a great episode of Buffy or something. But I do have several bones to pick with this one. Like why do each of the books only cover a ~48 hr time period?! It's like reading an episode of 24. It just seems impossible to cover that much ground in such a small time frame, especially since the characters are even sleeping and eating. What? Also, there is the totally annoying revisit of the Erik-Heath-Zoey love triangle, whic This series is fun, if you don't look too closely. ;) It's brain candy, like a great episode of Buffy or something. But I do have several bones to pick with this one. Like why do each of the books only cover a ~48 hr time period?! It's like reading an episode of 24. It just seems impossible to cover that much ground in such a small time frame, especially since the characters are even sleeping and eating. What? Also, there is the totally annoying revisit of the Erik-Heath-Zoey love triangle, which I was SO over with the first time it was resolved. Seriously. I know they're teenagers, but can we puh-leeze move on? Just have her end up with Stark already and let's get onto other things. I also find some of the language annoying (i.e. Zoey tries not to swear, and so says things like \"Bullpoopie\" which is a word that should have never been created, ever, ever, ever.) This is especially weird since other characters like Aphrodite in the book totally drop the f-bomb, so it's not the like the authors are trying to appeal only to a younger audience. It's not that I want all swearing all the time, it's just that some of the psuedo-swears just make my stomach turn. I guess my overall criticism of this series is that each book is like a 1 hour installment of a TV show. I'm much happier when 1 book would better translate into an entire season's worth of episodes, kwim? For instance, Charlaine Harris's Sookie Stackhouse book [I:]Dead Until Dark[/I:] = Season 1 of True Blood. That's all. Fewer books, more stuff per book. But that means less money for publishers and authors, I guess. Irritating. ...more You guys ready? Cuz here we go again. Just a reminder that you guys should really head over to Fangs for the Fantas , my House of Night month reading buddy, for their review, which excellently covers a bunch of things that I just didn\u2019t have the energy to analyze in mine. They\u2019ve got a lot of good stuff on the shittiness of Erik and Zoey\u2019s relationship, in particular, that is just A+ spot-on. Hunted picks up right where Untamed left off \u2013 well, sort of. It actually picks up a few hours after Untame You guys ready? Cuz here we go again. Just a reminder that you guys should really head over to Fangs for the Fantas , my House of Night month reading buddy, for their review, which excellently covers a bunch of things that I just didn\u2019t have the energy to analyze in mine. They\u2019ve got a lot of good stuff on the shittiness of Erik and Zoey\u2019s relationship, in particular, that is just A+ spot-on. Hunted picks up right where Untamed left off \u2013 well, sort of. It actually picks up a few hours after Untamed left off, with an obnoxious dream sequence that I\u2019m sure someone thought would serve as a good hook. We open to Zoey having a pointedly non-erotic \u201cdream\u201d about Timeless Pop-Culture References, when Kalona shows up, bare-assed naked, to make it erotic. His laugh was seductive. I wanted to drown in it. I leaned forward, closing my eyes and gasping aloud as the chill of his spirit brushed against my breasts, sending shooting sensations that were painful but deliciously erotic to places in my body that made me feel out of control. \u201cYou like the pain. It brings you pleasure.\u201d Wow, did not know we were going there. Uncomfortable. So while sixteen-year-old Zoey is getting her introduction to S&M by a (canonically) ancient immortal rapist, she also learns that Kalona thinks she is the reincarnation of the living sex-doll that trapped him, A-ya. For, you know, reasons. She looks like A-ya, her soul ~calls to him~, she commands the elements\u2013 Wait, what? \u201cI\u2019m not A-ya!\u201d \u201cYou command the elements,\u201d his voice was a caress, awful and wonderful, compelling and terrifying. \u201cGifts from my Goddess,\u201d I said. \u201cOnce before you commanded the elements. You were made from them. Fashioned to love me.\u201d I\u2013what? Those don\u2019t\u2013 that doesn\u2019t\u2013 being made from something doesn\u2019t mean you command it, otherwise everyone in this world would be a fucking bloodbender, right? And she wasn\u2019t even really \u201cmade from elements\u201d. I guess maybe you could say earth and water, since she was clay, but the elements weren\u2019t really an important part of the story Zoey\u2019s grandmother told her. It was more of a Wonder Woman/Sleeping Beauty thing, you know: speed of Mercury, Merryweather gave her the gift of song, whatever. Her makers gifted her with a fancy dress, pretty hair, pretty face, fast legs, and a nice voice. That\u2019s it, man. Double-checking with the last book, Zoey\u2019s grandmother does mention that they engraved \u201cthe sacred seven\u201d on her: north, south, east, west, above, below, and spirit\u201d from which I guess you could infer elements(???), but still, this feels like a real stretch, Kalona. Your logic feels contrived, bro. Anyway, Zoey\u2019s drawn to Kalona\u2019s world of erotic pain and pleasure, but snaps out of it Because Nyx, and we rewind back to just after the end of Untamed, where everyone freeze-frame high-fived while Stevie Rae had an arrow sticking out of her chest and was bleeding to death. Seriously, it takes like three fucking chapters for them to get that arrow out of Stevie Rae\u2019s chest, and in the meantime, Zoey reflects on just about everything except her mortally injured best fried. For example, another girl leads Erik \u2013 a dude she is currently not dating, remember \u2013 through the tunnels to find supplies, and Zoey loses her shit. Okay, before I sound like an \u00fcber-jealous freak let me explain: Erik Night is to-die-for hot in a Superman-Clark Kent kind of way and, to carry through with the superhero analogy, he\u2019s also talented and honestly a good guy. Er, vampyre. Recently Changed vampyre at that. He is also my boyfriend. Er, ex-boyfriend. Recently ex-boyfriend at that. Sadly, that means I\u2019m going to be ridiculously jealous of anyone, even one of the kinda freaky red fledglings, who might be catching too much of his interest (too much = any). Once again, can we all just bask in the irony of Zoey being jealous because Erik is physically in the presence of another woman? Really? So acting on an attraction to three boys simultaneously is fine for Zoey, but if Erik does it? Nuh-uh! Not okay with her! Second, \u201csadly that means I\u2019m going to be jealous of anyone who speaks to him, ever\u201d? Uh, no? It doesn\u2019t \u201cmean\u201d that! I really hate the casual way Cast has Zoey expressing this incredibly entitled, selfish, hypocritical, and unreasonable overreaction. That attitude of \u201cHE\u2019S MINE, MINE, HE CAN\u2019T EVEN LOOK AT ANOTHER WOMAN\u201d is so toxic, particularly in the way it encourages women to see all other women as threats and/or competition. It\u2019s not something that needs to be re-enforced as natural and not worth interrogating in any situation, much less this one. I mean for gods\u2019 sakes, Erik just walked around with a girl to find supplies, and he and Zoey aren\u2019t even dating! What the fuck?? But of course, because this is House of Night, and House of Night is The Worst, Zoey\u2019s jealousy is completely justified by the narrative with the introduction of Venus. Then I turned my attention back to Venus. She had an icy beauty. Venus was sleek and sexy in a pair of tight designer jeans and a simple cropped black tank that had a rhinestone skull\u2019s head on it. Her hair was long and thick and the kind of blond that looked golden. In other words, she was definitely attractive enough to hang with Aphrodite, which was saying something, because Aphrodite is totally gorgeous. And, like Aphrodite used to be, Venus was obviously a hateful bitch, and probably had been one before she died and un-died. I narrowed my eyes at her. Venus is essentially a copy+paste of Aphrodite in Mean Girl mode. She\u2019s pretty, blonde, rich, after Erik Night, and she does almost nothing before Zoey just decides that she\u2019s a \u201chateful bitch\u201d. She calls her that like three fucking times in the course of three pages. I was still trying to decide whether my negative reaction to Venus was because she was (obviously) a bitch, because she had been skulking around the tunnels with Erik, or because I had a bad feeling about the red fledglings in general when she spoke up. [...] So maybe my alarm system was misfiring simply because Venus was a hateful bitch, and not because she and the rest of them were evil incarnate. [...] \u201cSo do you want to use the facilities or not?\u201d Venus said. I thought she sounded grumpy, or maybe \u201cbitchy\u201d was a better descriptive word. YES ZOEY WE GET IT YOU THINK SHE\u2019S AN AWFUL TERRIBLE BITCH BITCH, THANK YOU. The swing of this portrayal is a damn shame, too, because it could have gone very differently. Venus is the former roommate and best friend of Aphrodite, who died some time before the first book. Presumably they were close, and one would think that seeing your former best friend alive and back to her old self would be something to be happy about, but the book has no tenderness to spare for them. The first thing Venus does when she appears is \u201cmeanly\u201d reveal Aphrodite and Stevie Rae\u2019s imprint, and then it\u2019s all aboard the \u201cbitch\u201d train. There\u2019s no \u201cHi, I missed you\u201d, no \u201cI\u2019m so glad you\u2019re okay\u201d, just Aphrodite being like \u201cWatch out for her, she\u2019s a total bitch!\u201d, because Aphrodite is Team Zoey now, and if you\u2019re not Team Zoey, or even just happen to want something that Zoey might want, you\u2019re canonically wrong. Anyway, Zoey also takes this opportunity, mid arrow-removal, to reflect on her feelings for Stark. Because again, it\u2019s okay for Zoey to be interested in more than one guy, but only Zoey, and don\u2019t you forget it. \u201cWe are lucky, indeed, that the fledgling missed his mark,\u201d Darius said. His words still went round and round inside my head because I knew what none of the rest of them did, that it was impossible for Stark to miss his mark. His gift from Nyx had been that his aim was always true, that he always hit whatever it was he aimed at, even if that sometimes had horrible consequences. Our Goddess had told me herself that once she gave a gift, she never took it back, so even though Stark had died and then come back as a twisted version of himself, he still would have hit her heart and killed Stevie Rae if that had been his intention. So did that mean there was more of Stark\u2019s humanity left than there had seemed to be? He\u2019d called my name; he\u2019d recognized me. I\u2019d shivered, reliving the chemistry that had sparked between us right before he died. \u201cPriestess? Did you not hear me?\u201d Darius and Aphrodite had been staring at me. \u201cOh, sorry. Sorry. I was distracted by\u2026\u201d I hadn\u2019t wanted to explain that I was thinking about the guy who had almost killed my best friend. HA HA HA RIGHT, because that would be douchey, to be thinking about how hot a guy was while someone is trying to explain to you that your best friend might die of blood loss. Our heroine, ladies and gentleman. Darius explains that Stevie Rae needs blood, and Aphrodite just happens to be standing there, so she\u2019s volunteered. Stevie Rae bites her, and because vampire bites feel real good, it gets\u2026kinda weird. Then Aphrodite\u2019s yikes turned into a disturbingly sensual moan and her eyes closed as Stevie Rae\u2019s mouth latched on to her, breaking the skin easily and causing the hot, pulsing blood to flow as my best friend greedily sucked and swallowed like a predator. Okay, yes. It was disturbing and nasty, but it was also weirdly erotic. I know it felt good\u2014it had to. That\u2019s how vampyres are made. Wait what? Since when??? I thought the entire premise of the first book was that vampires were just spontaneously chosen by Nyx, Marked and shit, when did this happen? And from observing what was going on with Stevie Rae and Aphrodite, it was clear that red vampyres definitely had the whole bring-your-human-pleasure phenomenon going. I mean, Aphrodite had even leaned suggestively into Darius, who wrapped an arm around her and bent to kiss her as Stevie Rae continued sucking on her wrist. The kiss between the warrior and Aphrodite had so much sizzle to it I swear I could almost see sparks flying. [\u2026] I felt guilty watching, even though there was an undeniably sexy beauty to what was happening between them. Is this\u2013 is this about to turn into an orgy? Wait, is this the YA version of an orgy? Anyway, everyone barges in and Venus reveals that Stevie Rae and Aphrodite have imprinted, and oh my fucking god is this the \u201cNO HOMO\u201d-iest Imprint ever. Nobody can bring it up without going out of their way to assure whoever they\u2019re talking to that Stevie Rae and Aphrodite do NOT want to fuck. Ewww, girls being romantically attracted to one another???? GROSS! Only cis white gay bffs allowed! This is around the time we\u2019re introduced to the Named Red Fledgelings, among whom are some of Cast\u2019s most embarrassing racist caricatures. We get Montoya: A short, Hispanic guy who looked seriously thuggish with his sagging pants and his multiple piercings nodded his head, sending his thick dark hair waving around his face. \u201cHi,\u201d he said with just a touch of an accent and a surprisingly cute, warm smile. Oh hey, our one and only Hispanic vampire, a \u201cthuggish\u201d guy of non-specific descent, with a \u201csurprisingly cute, warm\u201d smile and an accent. How incredibly progressive of you, Cast! For better or worse, we never hear from Montoya again after this, to my recollection, but then there\u2019s Kramisha: A black girl twitched out of the group. It was a testament to how distracted I\u2019d been with Venus and Aphrodite and Stevie Rae that I hadn\u2019t noticed her before then. She had on a form-fitting bright yellow shirt cut low to show the top of her black lace bra and a pair of high-waisted, skintight cropped jeans that were cinched up with a wide leather belt that matched her chunky gold shoes. Her hair was cut geometrically into a short poof on her head, and half of it was dyed bright orange. [...] \u201cLet\u2019s get it straight right now that I\u2019m not sharin\u2019 my bed with no one,\u201d Kramisha said, weaving her head around and looking bored and pissed off at the same time. And I just, like, I can\u2019t, she literally did the weaving head thing, ohmygodwhatareyoudoing, Cast? \u201cAphrodite\u2014she crazy even when she not drunk and Imprinted,\u201d Kramisha said. \u201cWe all used to her, though.\u201d Oh my god. \u201cIt ain\u2019t your heart you wanna share,\u201d Kramisha said. \u201cDon\u2019t go hatin\u2019 on me, baby!\u201d Johnny B said, trying (unsuccessfully) to sound black. Kramisha rolled her eyes at him. \u201cYou so crazy.\u201d You so crazy. Kramisha stepped calmly out of the shadows. She gave Erik a long, considering look and said, \u201cBoyyyy, you is workin\u2019 it here in the tunnel? Damn! You got some game.\u201d It\u2019s difficult to discuss Kramisha, because on the one hand, the character shouldn\u2019t be shamed for speaking PC Cast\u2019s mangled attempts at AAVE. On the other hand, she is one of two black characters in this entire world, the only black Red Vampire, and she as a sassy, head-weaving, you-so-crazy stereotype. It\u2019s utterly cringe-inducing. Kramisha is also the vessel for PC Cast\u2019s terrible plot-device poetry a\u2019la the prophecy we got last book. She and her powers exist solely to provide yet another source from which Zoey can get divine guidance from Nyx. So, in case you haven\u2019t been keeping track, we now have: Zoey\u2019s Irritable Bowel Goddess Aphrodite\u2019s visions Kramisha\u2019s divinely-inspired poems to feed the fledgling unearned plot tidbits. It\u2019s ridiculous, because we had that whole discussion last book about how Nyx \u201cdoesn\u2019t want to interfere\u201d with anyone\u2019s free will, and yet she\u2019s perfectly content to tell them what to do via coded messages and Zoey\u2019s dowsing intestines. I mean, she even goes so far as the make Zoey and her pals physically ill around the House of Night campus so they don\u2019t get pulled into Kalona\u2019s thrall, so what, really, is the difference between all of these shenanigans and just telling Zoey and her people straight-up what she wants them to do? But you know, I say that like I don\u2019t know what the real answer is, because of course, the real answer is simply that the Casts are lazy fucking writers. They just shit out these third-grade riddles for Zoey to spend the book \u201cdecoding\u201d, which are essentially just time-release plot capsules that dispense the magical solution once we\u2019ve met the allotted word count, presumably because that\u2019s easier than writing a plot in which things actually happen and characters do things for reasons that make sense. Anyway, the long and the short of it is that Zoey does a whole lot of meaningless shit before she wanders upstairs to talk to Erik, who is keeping guard at one of the tunnel entrances. Zoey\u2019s relationship with Erik in this book is totally all over the place, because really what Hunted devotes itself to is resurrecting Zoey\u2019s love square, now upgraded to a love pentagon. Zoey is so territorial about Erik that she\u2019s actually still worried about his interest in Aphrodite. \u201cGood night. Don\u2019t bother us.\u201d And she disappeared. \u201cBetter him than me,\u201d I heard Erik mutter as he watched the blanket swing back into place. I made no attempt to hide my smile. I was glad Erik wasn\u2019t still interested in Aphrodite. Aphrodite, who hasn\u2019t been with Erik in four books. Aphrodite, who is very obviously into someone else. And yet Zoey still sees her as competition? What? Then again, she\u2019s also worried about Jessica fucking Alba. \u201cJessica Alba in Sin City. The kid has excellent taste. She\u2019s one hot vamp actress,\u201d Erik said quietly so as not to wake Dallas. I frowned at him and pulled the Elvis blanket door closed. \u201cWhat? It\u2019s not in my bedroom,\u201d he said. By the way, is there a famous mid-to-late 00\u2019s actor or actress who ISN\u2019T a fucking vampire in this world? In their last review, Fangs made a very good point about how \u201cyou cannot be a marginalised oppressed group which is completely separated from larger society and have a COMPLETE STRANGLEHOLD on the world\u2019s media\u201d the way these vampires do, and Hunted only further emphasizes that bizarre contradiction with the way Neferet handled the fallout from the Raven Mocker\u2019s attacks in the last book. While Zoey is officially rekindling her relationship with Erik at the tunnel entrance, Heath shows up, bringing news from the outside world. \u201cTo repeat our special report on the gang violence in midtown Tulsa last night, Tulsa P.D. reiterates that the city is safe and the problem under control. To quote the chief of police, \u2018It was an initiation ritual by a new gang that calls itself Mockers. Leaders of the gang have been arrested and the streets of midtown Tulsa are, once again, safe for our citizens.\u2019 \u201d [\u2026] \u201cThere was no gang in midtown last night,\u201d I said. \u201cThat\u2019s the most ridiculous thing I\u2019ve ever heard!\u201d \u201cShe fixed it. She manipulated the press and probably the public, too,\u201d Erik said, looking grim. Yes, Neferet somehow has the canonical power to CONTROL THE MEDIA and manipulate it to her advantage! Truly, these vampires are oppressed! And oh god I tried to paste this whole review in Goodreads, I swear I did, but it's way too long. Read the full review + Pt. 2: Fucking Stark aka the Most Important Part + quotespam + my sweet-ass Raven Mocker photoshop at You'reKilling.Us ...more This was worse than all the other books on my \"books that pissed me off\" shelf up together. Really & truly. Even the VERY few redeemed qualities this series had have just been destroyed under the sheer weight of how overly disgusting this shit fest of a book really is. Spoilers ahead. Just warning you,since I'm gonna be ranting a fucking lot. Let's start the list off with the writing. 1.Mainly the repeating of information & the dialogue. I started highlighting, but there was just to damn m This was worse than all the other books on my \"books that pissed me off\" shelf up together. Really & truly. Even the VERY few redeemed qualities this series had have just been destroyed under the sheer weight of how overly disgusting this shit fest of a book really is. Spoilers ahead. Just warning you,since I'm gonna be ranting a fucking lot. Let's start the list off with the writing. 1.Mainly the repeating of information & the dialogue. I started highlighting, but there was just to damn much here in \"hunted\" I had 2 give up, for the sake of my mental wellbeing. Really. About a million different times we are reminded of things that after four other books, we already know. Like that the twins aren't really twins, Damian & jack are gay, all about Zoey & her exploits, Zoey and her boy troubles, how bad the big baddie nerfret is, how hot people are, how her & stark had a connection..., the list is fucking endless. It's boring, takes up valuable page space, and is insulting to the reader. I can understand a passing mention of something here or there. But whole paragraphs, no, pages, devoted to recapping? We're being treated like we're stupid. That we can't remember what happened one or two books ago. People reread books for a new release believe it or not. & you know, despite what you thing, Casts, most people don't start series in the fifth fucking book. Most readers start at the beginning. Get that through you thick skulls. Then there is the dialogue problem. Most of it is this pointless fucking banter that adds nothing to the plot. Nothing. It's all half assed attempts to sound like real teens, but it fails miserably. & when it's not dumb bimbos bantering about clothes & hags from hell & other dumb shit like that, it's just Zoey and her friends talking about the same things over & over, trying to figure stuff out, but nothing ever really gets done. So much could have been edited out, but no. It's not. Also, how old is Darius supposed to be. I realize he's meant to be in his early to mid twenties, but when he speaks it's like a really bad lord of the rings imitation. :/ sad, because the guy has potential, but he's wasting it following this dumb fuck around. Just because Zoey has fancy powers, doesn't mean she should be allowed to be a leader. Never mind a religious leader. 2. Which leads me to my next issue. As always, a main character has probably the biggest effect on the story. They need to be an interesting person. A protagonist can be good or bad or neutral. They don't have to be likable. Not really. But having an unlikable lead character can be a good thing. If it's handled the right way. Anti Heroes can be tons of fun. But it all fails when your main character is the most judgmental, shallow, stupid, hypocritical, prudish bitch in all of literature... But she is still the chosen one. The gal that's supposed to save the day. The one I am meant to be rooting for. Well I am sorry. (Not really). I CANNOT cheer on a girl who is so damned obsessed with everyone's looks. Who is constantly mentioning how hot her 3 boyfriends are, but then calls the poor mind controlled girls who are fanning over the ones controlling them \"annoying.\" Who thinks its \"hoish\" & \"skanky\" to have even the tiniest bit of sexual urges. Who constantly goes on about how special she is. Who gets mad at Erik for getting jealous and not trusting her after she has made it perfectly clear that she CANT be trusted. Who thinks its ok for her to string a long all these guys at once and be a cheating, lying, jerk, but God forbid stark be with more than one person. A girl who thinks that she's really in love with a boy she's know for only a couple days. A girl who handles rape so disgustingly. (More on that in a minute.) yeah she sucks. I mean, I might fight her entertaining if she was an anti hero. But she's not. She's supposed to be a good guy. The savior of the good guys. & if Nyx is really as wonderful as they keep trying to make me believe, then there is no damned way she should have ever picked Zoey Redbird to be a chose one. 3. Token characters. Like I said, we are reminded many many times that Damian & jack are gay. To a point were it is pretty offensive. It's clear that they only really exist as token characters to show how diverse the group is or how accepting Zoey is. (Even though she totally isn't) & shaunee, of course, is the black member. We are told several times in the story that she's coffee colored. Because clearly, the people reading this must be reminded of it. Maybe the writers thing we magically forget she was jamacian in the last few pages of plot? -_- then there is Kramisha. A walking stereotype of African American teen from the inner city. Everything about her, from her mannerisms to the way she dresses screams stereotype & it really is painful to read about her. It's just so racist. How did the casts get this character through editing? I don't no, but it say a lot for the stupidity of these publishers, I'll say that. 4. Love interests. Meaning, Erik, Stark, & Heath. (& kinda Kolona) So fucking annoying! As if Zoey & her boy drama wasn't already bad enough, we throw in Stark the archer dude who can't miss & who Zoey feels this \"connection \" to right before he kicks the bucket. I guess Erik the \"honestly a good guy \" wasnt working, so they brought in Stark as a \"bad boy\" replacement. See, maybe this wouldn't annoy me so much if it had been dealt with differently. But instead of just keeping the break up all uber messy because Zoey was an idiot and slept with her teacher, the casts did a one 180 with Erik, turning him from bland, boring nice guy to complete controlling jerk. & not just the appropriate jerkish reaction to catching his girlfriend in the arms of another man. He was angry then and had every right to be. She betrayed him. But it went from that to total \"caveman control the woman because she be property \" mindset. Again, this kind of behavior might be a justifiable on Eriks part. He cared for Zoey but she hurt him. He thought, within reason, that she was going to go outside & do it again. But this time with Heath. He KNOWS she's unfaithful & that hurt & he didn't know what else to do. Both were wrong at times in this relationship. Mostly Zoey, since Erik was just reacting to her bad choices. & really all this sudden crap from him could have been forgivable, because there was motivation behind it. But then later in the story it is confirmed by his ex girlfriend Aphrodite (my fav character) that he tried the same sort of controlling \"don't talk to other guys\" behavior with her. Destroying the simple \"nice guy\" character description & undermining the motivation for his reactions. He didn't act that way because he had been wronged. But because he's not a nice guy. He's just a controlling dick who is really fucking good at acting. & why is this just how coming up after four other books of him always being a \"genuinely good guy\". Because of stark. Because for some insane reasons these bitch authors decided they needed a bad boy character. A shitty excuse of a tormented soul character. That's much better than the same old nice boy route, huh? Stark destroyed 4 books worth of character development, which in all honesty, could have been very interesting. In the right hands Erik & Zoey's problems could have been dealt with and used to further plots and personal growth. But no. The potential is being pushed aside for stark. & you know, I get that teens love lives are full of drama. Mainly because teens are idiots. But there is a point where it's to much. & all the drama with strak, Erik, & even the fallen angel dude.... It all goes above and beyond to much. It just gets in the way of the basic good versus evil plot. (which at its core is a tried and true good plot, but fails in the hands of p.c & Kristen cast.) 5. Connections. These characters don't understand love at all. You can feel lust for the hot guy, sure. Maybe even like him after a big important conversation like the one Zoey and Stark shared in book 4. I'll buy that. But I can't believe all this shit they keep spewing about love and connections. & knowing how good the other is. Because they can't know. Not from just a few days of knowing each other. It's not love. It's insta love. It's sickening & unrealistic. These two are morons & Zoey has no right doing all this crap, like kissing him and sleeping in bed with stark when she's still with Erik. & really? He's saved from the dark because of Zoey making him feel? How cheesy. >:( someone put me out of my misery please! They are not in love. & what kind of dumb advice is \"what you really are is how you act most of the time\" (Zoey page 275) so.... I don't get it. Seriously!? What the actual fuck?! So, are you saying that Hannibal Lecter was a good guy because he acted like a good guy most of the time? I don't understand your logic. -_- 6. Rape. Stark, our love interest. Is, like I said, the tormented soul type. He's having this great inner struggle with his humanity. Much like Stevie Rae did. & see, he has to choose good over evil. But for most of the book, he's in the in between state. Like Stevie Rae was when she was eating street people. & while he's like this, he pretty much mostly bad. You know, whining about how he's a monster & stuff. & he needs blood. So since there are no humans around to feed from, he has to use fledglings. So Zoey and Darius walk up on him biting & molesting this poor girl, getting ready to freaking rape her. They save the girl, of course. But then there's no punishment. None at all. In fact, Zoey basically comforts Stark about his evilness. Then later she hops in bed with this sexual assultor to go to sleep next to him. How dumb can you get? But the worst part is the victim blaming with Becca, the girl he attacked. Everyone, even Becca herself, dismisses it because Stark is hot. & I guess maybe because she been brainwashed & the nerd herd has bigger issues like saving the world. Idk, but it's still really fucked up. The whole issue is treated so badly, it makes me kinda ill just writing about it. Here what Erin said about poor brainwashed Becca's behavior. Even after it's been established that she's a \"pod person \" & that vampires have some kind of aphrodisiac in their saliva to make getting bite fun for the human. \"She panted after him like a terrier.\" & \"talk about being used & then wadded up & thrown away like a snot rag.\" Her twin, shaunee, also called Becca pathetic. Wtf?! So.... It's not a big deal that Becca was nearly raped because she liked it against her will, because of a crazy vamp spit drug & brain washing? It's her fault then? Because she could fight a spell from a fallen angel & a psychic powered vamp? It's also awful.... If you are planning on reading \"hunted\" I urged you to pay extra close attention to these scenes, because it's really beyond disgusting the way she's treated & how stark doesn't get in trouble for it, it's all just dismissed & I want to literally hold Zoey's head under water until the bubbles stop for how she reacts. This is the girl a goddess wants in charge? Wtf? I desperately wish I could give this zero stars. It's that bad. The 1 good thing I could say? Well, I think the raven mockers are pretty cool. Imagine the effects in a movie! They'd look really bad ass. At least like I picture them. I can never be to sure how they were meant to look in the book. The casts aren't so great at describing. I see The body of a man, totally covered in black feathers with weird red eyes, wings on their backs (like angels of maximum ride.) & a giant beak. cool, huh? The cgi would be stellar on them. For creepy monsters things, they're high on my list of cool looks. Next to orcs & dementors. Only read if you are a fan for some odd reason, want to write s fun ranting review, or simply have the need to finish what you start. :) ...more Hunted was OK, but I didn't have high hopes since I was disappointed with Untamed. I was very annoyed with the dialogue in the beginning of the book. I know it's a YA book, but it seemed so juvenile to me. Do teenagers really talk this way? IMO, this was a filler book. There was not much going on through most of the story. The ending was as expected, but it was sort of a let-down. I wanted more action, I guess. I know the thing that bothers me the most is all of Zoey's boyfriends. I just wished Hunted was OK, but I didn't have high hopes since I was disappointed with Untamed. I was very annoyed with the dialogue in the beginning of the book. I know it's a YA book, but it seemed so juvenile to me. Do teenagers really talk this way? IMO, this was a filler book. There was not much going on through most of the story. The ending was as expected, but it was sort of a let-down. I wanted more action, I guess. I know the thing that bothers me the most is all of Zoey's boyfriends. I just wished she would focus on her craft and realize that she doesn't need a man (or boy) to be complete. I'll read the next in the series whenever it comes out though. 3.5 stars ...more To the Casts: I really enjoy this series, but this was a bit much. Too much \"boy issue\", we get it she always has to deal with multiple attachments. Get back into the actually intriguing mythology you have developed. This story was only about 2 days, best I can tell, and again we are left on the edge. Button it up please! After a series of dubious events force Zoey and her people back to the House of Night after they managed to escape in the last book they are left only with a random series of poems to guide them to finally drive off Kaloma. Yes, it\u2019s time for another House of Night book, inflicted on me by Cyna and Mavrynthia, who will either be co-defendants in my trial for trying to annihilate humanity for no longer deserving to exist, or will be the people I blame in my defence. I intend to use this link spam After a series of dubious events force Zoey and her people back to the House of Night after they managed to escape in the last book they are left only with a random series of poems to guide them to finally drive off Kaloma. Yes, it\u2019s time for another House of Night book, inflicted on me by Cyna and Mavrynthia, who will either be co-defendants in my trial for trying to annihilate humanity for no longer deserving to exist, or will be the people I blame in my defence. I intend to use this link spam in my defence argument. Let\u2019s start small \u2013 this book is utterly overwhelmed with stand-alone-stuffing. I\u2019ve said before that this series treats their readers as having the intelligence of algae \u2013 every book feels the need to recap every single book that has passed before. By the time we get to book 8 it will be 10,000 pages long and only 100 pages of it will be actual plot, the rest will be endless, painful, dull recap Which pretty much sums up well over 100 pages of this book. We have a brief introduction of the Red Fledglings, most of them who are nothing more than a name (and the one who isn\u2019t, frankly, would probably be preferable as a name). Zoey and Erik begin their relationship do-si-do and they all do\u2026 nothing. They hide in the tunnels, safe from their enemies that hates going underground. They have no idea what to do but they\u2019re safe unless they go outside and are attacked by their enemies. Which Zoey promptly does. Of course she does. In a desperate, forced attempt to move this limping plot forward, Zoey abandons even her limited supply of common sense. She gets injured, they belatedly decide they simply have to return to the House of Night for REASONS so we can try and drag out a storyline I say try. Because when they get there they do\u2026. They do\u2026 uh\u2026 well Zoey and Stark connect and then they escape. That\u2019s pretty much it until the very last chapter. It\u2019s one bizarre distraction which was really all about Stark and the clumsy relationship and terrible love dodecahedron (more on that later). The one attempt at a plot line is the prophecy of how to get rid of Kaloma the big bad, brought by Kramisha, the convenient source for more Nyx \u201cwisdom\u201d. Like the last book, this prophecy involves everyone scratching their head about how impossible it is \u2013 only Nyx has even less faith in her minions than I do! Rather than suffer Zoey & co struggling to figure it out, she again plays Irritable Bowel Goddess and gives Zoey her special \u201cfeelings\u201d whenever she\u2019s right. Honestly when deciding what special people they need to banish Kaloma they didn\u2019t even need the prophecy \u2013 they just needed to read the phone book aloud and wait until Nyx started churning \u201cAaron A Aaronson? No Nyxy feeling, not him\u2026 next!\u201d Of all the bafflingly awful parts of this book, I think Nyx baffles me the most. Sure it\u2019s not the most offensive, it\u2019s not the most vile, but it\u2019s the part that makes the least sense. Kaloma and Neferet take over the school and possibly plot to take over the High Council. The kill the last High Priestess and then use woo-woo to stop the rest of vampirekind from finding out\u2026. All of which would be utterly impossible if Nyx would do something. Let\u2019s be clear, Nyx isn\u2019t an aloof god \u2013 she constantly gives Zoey psychic feelings, she constantly sends them visions and prophecies, she even appeared last book to have a 10 minute conversation with Zoey and Aphrodite. She\u2019s quite a chatty goddess. But she couldn\u2019t appear before the teachers and say \u201cnope, naughty bad guy!\u201d? She couldn\u2019t send a memo to the high council or something? And don\u2019t give me the \u201cfree will\u201d excuse. Refusing to send a memo while the whole school is mind controlled into being happy little drones, even accepting and welcoming a rapist among them cannot possibly be excused in the name of \u201cfree will.\u201d Brace yourself readers, we\u2019re now entering the dread pit known as Zoey\u2019s love life. And I\u2019m going to start by saying something almost positive (well, it\u2019s less \u201cpositive\u201d and more \u201cmy expectations are so utterly lowered that anything being less than completely awful is an amazing relief\u201d). Zoey and Erik end up back together (more on that later) and Erik is much more pushy with his attentions, his kisses more sexual. Zoey, probably rightly, assumes he is now initiating sex because she is no longer a virgin and there\u2019s that nasty idea that once a woman has had sex with one woman she is somehow now \u201cfair game\u201d \u2013 in the same way a woman\u2019s sexual history is often attacked in rape trials. Zoey is quick to realise and reject the idea that because she had sex with Loren means Erik is now in a stronger position to cross that same line. Which is good Read More ...more This much anticipated book in the series is finally here! YAY! This did not take me long to read at all, but I must say I am very pleased! The story starts right where it left off in the last book with Zoey and the gang in the underground tunnels with the red fledgings. What happens is not something I expected, her ex-human boyfriend shows up and that's when it gets ugly. Zoey is forced to go back to The House of Night or she will die. The one person who gets on my nerves here is her ex-human ex This much anticipated book in the series is finally here! YAY! This did not take me long to read at all, but I must say I am very pleased! The story starts right where it left off in the last book with Zoey and the gang in the underground tunnels with the red fledgings. What happens is not something I expected, her ex-human boyfriend shows up and that's when it gets ugly. Zoey is forced to go back to The House of Night or she will die. The one person who gets on my nerves here is her ex-human ex-imprinted imprinted again boyfriend. I thought we were rid of him last book, but alas! We are not! At the end of this book Zoey finds herself wrapped up with 3 guys again and not sure what she wants to do! I hope the next book has a little bit more story into the men in her life! Overall, wonderful! ...more \u039e\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bd\u03cd\u03c7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03ac\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03cd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ae \u03b7 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac.\u03a9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ce \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ce \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ce \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03bd\u03ad\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u0397 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ac\u03c6\u03b9\u03be\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03c3\u03c7\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cd\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1, \u03b4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c6\u03af\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03c1\u03b7\u03c3\u03c6\u03cd\u03b3\u03b5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03cc\u03ba\u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03af\u03c9\u03bd \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03a3\u03c4\u03af\u03b2\u03b9 \u03a1\u03ad\u03b9.\u03a3\u03cd\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u039e\u03ad\u03c1\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bd\u03cd\u03c7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03ac\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03cd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ae \u03b7 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac.\u03a9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03ce \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ce \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03bc\u03b2\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ce \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03bd\u03ad\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. \u0397 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ac\u03c6\u03b9\u03be\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03c3\u03c7\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cd\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1, \u03b4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c6\u03af\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03c1\u03b7\u03c3\u03c6\u03cd\u03b3\u03b5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03cc\u03ba\u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03af\u03c9\u03bd \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03a3\u03c4\u03af\u03b2\u03b9 \u03a1\u03ad\u03b9.\u03a3\u03cd\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bd\u03cd\u03c7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ce\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c7\u03bf\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u039d\u03b5\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03ad\u03c4 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03b7 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03c9\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9.\u03a0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b7 \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03c7\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a7\u03b9\u03b8 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u0388\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b4\u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03c4\u03cd\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03ba.\u03a4\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03bb\u03b8\u03cc\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ae \u03c4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1;\u03a0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bc\u03ac\u03c7\u03b7\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ad\u03bb\u03be\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af \u03bf \u039a\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1; \u038c\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03b8\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u0384\u03c3\u03bb\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac, \u03b7 \u03ba\u03c5\u03bd\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b5\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ad\u03b4\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b1\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd.\u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u0384\u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03cc \u03ae \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03be\u03b9\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03ad\u03b3\u03b5\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ac\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c0\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b7\u03bd\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u0397 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03b8\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b5\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1 \u03cc\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b1 \u03b1\u03b3\u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b8\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bb\u03ac\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c6\u03af\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2.\u03a9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba \u03b8\u03b1\u03cd\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b2\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9, \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c7\u03b8\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b1\u03c7\u03c4\u03c5\u03bb\u03ac\u03ba\u03b9.\u03a0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c4\u03b7\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03ba\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7 \u0396\u03bf\u03af!\u038c\u03c3\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03cc\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bb\u03c0\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a3\u03c4\u03ac\u03c1\u03ba, \u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b7\u03b3\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1, \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03cc \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03ad\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5! \u0391\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b9\u03ac\u03b6\u03c9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c7\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b7 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b9\u03bb\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03af \u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac.\u03a0\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b5 \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac \u03b2\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03ac\u03ba\u03c9\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03ad \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03b9\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03ce\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03ae \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03cc\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1.\u0397 \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03a4\u03c3\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03ba\u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf.\u03a0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03c6\u03b7\u03b2\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c7\u03c1\u03bf\u03b9\u03ac \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b5\u03c5\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03af \u03b8\u03b5\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9. \u039f \u03bf\u03af\u03ba\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03bd\u03cd\u03c7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b8\u03c5\u03bc\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 gossip girl \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a7\u03ac\u03c1\u03b9 \u03a0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1, \u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03cc\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b4\u03c5\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf. \u03a4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ad\u03bc\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf \u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u0396\u03cc\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf\u03b4\u03c1\u03cc\u03bc\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03af\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b2\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03cc \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03cc.\u0391\u03bd \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ce\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bf, \u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03bc\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03b2\u03b5\u03af \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b7.\u0391\u03bd\u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03ce \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03af\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae! ...more I reviwed the earlier books and found them to be very teen-oriented and entertaining, but this book will be the last that my girls or I will read. The main character, while protesting every page that she really is a good and virtuous girl, has managed to sleep with her teacher, hook up with an ex-boyfriend, hook up with another ex and then hook up with a guy who is half rapist, half \"misunderstood.\" You can tell the authors are heading in the direction that becuause this story is make believe, i I reviwed the earlier books and found them to be very teen-oriented and entertaining, but this book will be the last that my girls or I will read. The main character, while protesting every page that she really is a good and virtuous girl, has managed to sleep with her teacher, hook up with an ex-boyfriend, hook up with another ex and then hook up with a guy who is half rapist, half \"misunderstood.\" You can tell the authors are heading in the direction that becuause this story is make believe, it's okay for the main character to have a \"consort\" and a \"mate\" because she is a vampire. As a mom, I don't care if it's a fantasy world, the authors go out of their way to create realistic modern teens, and this is about the worst role modeling I've seen. There is a gay character, and the authors mention he is gay at least every page if not more. I know these books are extremely popular, and there are worse books, but the direction these are heading is straight down, which is a disappointment for a promising series. ...more \"Hunted\" is one of those books I was majorly looking forward to. Unfortunately some of my speculations came true. There were two things that had bothered me from the beginning of the series. 1) the constant summarizing of past events and characters. I don't understand why after four books we need to be reminded of things we already know. These books aren't stand alone so therefore the redundancy became irritating. 2) The constant flip flop of love interests. Zoey is a strong character yet, she k \"Hunted\" is one of those books I was majorly looking forward to. Unfortunately some of my speculations came true. There were two things that had bothered me from the beginning of the series. 1) the constant summarizing of past events and characters. I don't understand why after four books we need to be reminded of things we already know. These books aren't stand alone so therefore the redundancy became irritating. 2) The constant flip flop of love interests. Zoey is a strong character yet, she keeps relying on guys, and at the same time can't make up her mind. She's looking like a ho and even she doesn't like it. Well, maybe it's time to stick to a boy, Z. In fact, why are we going in circles with this book? Are we seriously back to Heath? The plot left me hanging a bit. I wanted so much more than I got (more about that on Discussion Thursday with Ravenous Reader) The beginning starts off well. The dream (the one from chapter one online) is kick-butt. A great concept that seems to appear a bit throughout, but not enough. The story goes in circles a bit , and once again we find ourselves in a familiar love triangle, or maybe even square. \"Hunted\" moves along nicely despite some slow parts and some unpleasant parts. The book lacks a real big climax and leave you wanting more. This whole book is more of filler than anything else but it leaves you hanging where I KNOW I'll be getting the rest of the series ASAP! There's some crazy new character developments. For one the a fore mentioned triangle, square. Then there's an interesting twist involving Aphrodite, Darius, and Stevie Rae. Not to mention the guys: Erik, Heath, Stark. The characters are interwoven really nicely and its great to see the relationship grow and develop. This book was entertaining and fun, filled with wise cracking jokes and fun filled character craziness (that's the best way to describe it i.e. Jack's sandwiches). The books is what I expected, though not without a few minor disappointments. I just want to get to the next book and see what happens with Zoey and her Nerd Herd. I give this book a 80/100 B- Characters-19 Plot- 15 Writing-15 Originality-16 Re-Readability- 15 ...more My overall reaction to the end of this book was, 'So what?'. I don't understand the hype around this series. It isn't very good, it's written blatantly aimed at selling as many copies to the incredibly stupid, shallow tween American audience. How do I know this? The lack of swearing. Normal teenagers swear. \"Bull poopie\" is not appropriate language if you want your older audience to take the characters seriously. And the sex. The sex! What sex? What sex there is is undescribed, unnecessary and t My overall reaction to the end of this book was, 'So what?'. I don't understand the hype around this series. It isn't very good, it's written blatantly aimed at selling as many copies to the incredibly stupid, shallow tween American audience. How do I know this? The lack of swearing. Normal teenagers swear. \"Bull poopie\" is not appropriate language if you want your older audience to take the characters seriously. And the sex. The sex! What sex? What sex there is is undescribed, unnecessary and totally unrealistic. The love heptagon is ridiculous. I don't care how many men are pointlessly in love with Zoey - just freaking decide on one already! Oh, and why do all the characters have to be needlessly hot? I don't care if vampirism makes you look hot - surely to other vampires you'd just look normal. And the whole red vampire thing? Do they have to make it political?! And I swear that only happened so Stevie-Ray (LOL who decided that was a good name?! WHO!?!) didn't have to die really. I only read the books in the hopes that they would get better. They didnt. The characters? All of them, without exception, are as flat as boards. Zoey is a Mary-Sue, all her boyfriends are Gary-Stus, the evil guys are all Angry!Sues or Anti!Sues. And can I just point out, the romance between bird-guy and Stevie-Ray? Way creepy. The mythology? What a way to butcher Ancient Greek goddesses and make them look like Disney fairy princesses, Cast(s). What on Earth was she thinking, giving characters tatoos for no apparent reason but to display power. Surely an aura only detectable by other vampires or a t-shirt is okay, not body-altering and slightly disfiguring ink splats? Seriously.... Overal, definitely meh. ...more Kewl. These books make me feel like I'm steadily losing brain cells, but I can't stop reading them for some reason. I guess I'm just curious to see what other ridiculous plot twists there will be. Anyway, Hunted was purty good. I almost stopped reading after Chosen -- I kinda hated Chosen -- but Untamed and Hunted weren't too bad. I felt like Hunted was a little uneventful compared to the others; not a whole lot of new stuff came up. That's not necessarily bad though, considering how complicated Kewl. These books make me feel like I'm steadily losing brain cells, but I can't stop reading them for some reason. I guess I'm just curious to see what other ridiculous plot twists there will be. Anyway, Hunted was purty good. I almost stopped reading after Chosen -- I kinda hated Chosen -- but Untamed and Hunted weren't too bad. I felt like Hunted was a little uneventful compared to the others; not a whole lot of new stuff came up. That's not necessarily bad though, considering how complicated the plot has become. Okay, so I guess I'll just give a few random thoughts. First of all, just want to mention that I hate hate hate Zoey. She's so obnoxious. And why does every single hot guy who comes around have to instantly fall in love with her? Gah. She has like, what, four guys competing for her at once? Erik, Heath, Stark, Kalona ... There used to be Loren too. Oy vey. And then she's just like, \"La di daaaa I'll just sleep with all of them.\" Ugh. Hate her. Anyway, in case you were wondering: Stark. I think she should go with Stark. Even though he is a creepy idiot. At least he's not an a-hole like Erik or a dork like Heath or a scary winged demon like Kalona. Sooo yeah. He's cooler than all the other guys, so Zoey should totally ditch all her other boyfriends and go with him. That's what I think. So, Hunted was cool. I had fun reading it. I'll read the next one when it comes out. ...more This series has become laughable. I don't give books anything below three stars lightly, and it's not just because I'm not a fan of the whole fallen angel thing. It's because I really hate the love triangle (square? pentagon?) thing that's going on here. It's like Zoey falls in love with every good looking guy she comes across and joyfully toys with them all. It wouldn't kill her to make a choice-seriously, it wouldn't-yet the authors seem to set it up in a way that suggests she's suppose to hav This series has become laughable. I don't give books anything below three stars lightly, and it's not just because I'm not a fan of the whole fallen angel thing. It's because I really hate the love triangle (square? pentagon?) thing that's going on here. It's like Zoey falls in love with every good looking guy she comes across and joyfully toys with them all. It wouldn't kill her to make a choice-seriously, it wouldn't-yet the authors seem to set it up in a way that suggests she's suppose to have multiple guys at her beck and call. This does not say nice things about Zoey. I honestly felt offended as a female and a teenager while reading this. How many of us would seriously be stressing over our love life and purses in a time of crisis? Overall the plot in this series is very compelling and underneath all the bull and crap is an amazing story with more or less likable characters. I had fun reading them and found it all really intriguing but I stop here. From what I've heard of the rest of the series from here on out, I made a very wise choice. It's just no longer worth it in my opinion, but if you've read the last four books you might as well read this one and end it here. ...more In this latest book, Hunted, the main character Zoey, goes in even deeper than ever before. The intrigue, romance, adventure and spiritual awakening are more intense. Even the bad characters draw you in and make you want to believe in them and often it's difficult to find the fine lines between the good and evil. Really enjoyed this one. And this is where I gave up on this series. I just couldn't connect with the characters. Hunted is the fifth book in the House of Night series and continues from Untamed by only a day or two. Zoey and her friends are now hiding out in the tunnels with the red fledgelings, a different kind of fledgeling who change into a different kind of vampyre, and one which Zoey doesn't know if she can trust yet. Stevie Rae is badly hurt by an arrow piercing through her chest after being fired by the newly risen red fledgeling, Stark. All the gang is pretty freaked out by what happened at the end Hunted is the fifth book in the House of Night series and continues from Untamed by only a day or two. Zoey and her friends are now hiding out in the tunnels with the red fledgelings, a different kind of fledgeling who change into a different kind of vampyre, and one which Zoey doesn't know if she can trust yet. Stevie Rae is badly hurt by an arrow piercing through her chest after being fired by the newly risen red fledgeling, Stark. All the gang is pretty freaked out by what happened at the end of Untamed and band together to decide the best course of action. Erik is also one of the group hiding out and at first things are awkward between him and Zoey, but they decide to forgive each other. Although Heath, Zoey's other ex-boyfriend, are no longer imprinted, he seeks her out at the tunnels and wants to talk. But while she is struggling with her love for Heath and the knowledge that it's best for him if they don't see each other again, Zoey is attacked by one of the raven-men and is now fighting for her life. Unfortunately, to save herself, Zoey has to drink Heath's blood and so they are imprinted again, at the delight of Heath, but Erik is definitely not happy. But things still do not look good for Zoey so they have to take her back to the House of Night, to Neferet, who is the only one who can heal her. But it feels as though they are entering a different House of Night, one filled with raven-men, fear and Kalona, an evil fallen angel who rose from the Earth at the end of Untamed. At the end of the last book, Aphrodite was coming through as a very strong character, and was slowly becoming my favourite. After reading Hunted I can now say she *is* my favourite. She still likes the boys but she doesn't let them take over her life. She's funny and sexy as well as strong-willed and determined. I just love all her witty retorts. To me she's the most level headed character and to be honest the most strong, even more so than Zoey. Zoey still has boy troubles and continues to make them worse, but after reading my previous reviews, I am sure you are now well aware how this part of the series has my eyes rolling. However, the action is still there in Hunted, which kept me reading until the last page. Verdict: Although Hunted is quite a roller coaster ride and a good read, it didn't engage me as much as the previous four books. I admit I am getting tired of Zoey and all her boyfriend issues, and the choices she makes when around them, but I'm still looking forward to reading Tempted, the next book in the series. ...more This is the fifth book in the House of Night series; all in all this series has been very inconsistent. The third book was kind of ho-hum, the fourth book was excellent, and the fifth book, well, it kind of sucked. In this book Zoey and friends are hiding in the tunnels with Stevie Rae and her red fledglings. Somehow they need to get back into the House of Night to face Neferet and Kalona and somehow break the influence they are having on the vampires and fledglings of the House of Night. The abov This is the fifth book in the House of Night series; all in all this series has been very inconsistent. The third book was kind of ho-hum, the fourth book was excellent, and the fifth book, well, it kind of sucked. In this book Zoey and friends are hiding in the tunnels with Stevie Rae and her red fledglings. Somehow they need to get back into the House of Night to face Neferet and Kalona and somehow break the influence they are having on the vampires and fledglings of the House of Night. The above is basically the whole story. Sadly the first 2/3's of the story are spent in the tunnels with not a whole lot happening. Zoey spends a lot of time whining about Erik being too possessive. Then, of course, Zoey has to get involved with Heath...again. And because Zoey wouldn't have enough to whine about without being involved in a love triangle, Stark is drug into the picture too. This story felt like it was almost a repeat of the third book; at least in the relationship aspects. Seriously nothing exciting actually happens until the last section of the book. This section was pretty good and dealt with Zoey and friends going back to the House of Night and facing Neferet and Kalona. This has been a very inconsistent series for me. Some of the books I love and some I hate. I feel that there has been more hate than love for this series for me. There are so many interesting things that could be happening with these characters and this world; it seems though that the majority of page space islent to Zoey so she can whine about relationship troubles. All of her whining makes me think that maybe she is not the special Priestess that everyone thinks she is; I mean she is one of the weakest heroines I have ever read about. I had a tough time getting through this book. I am finding that I don't really care about many of the characters all that much. The plot wasn't very exciting or griping. Believe it or not I though Aphrodite was my favorite character of this book; her actions are much more heroic than any of the others. I am not sure I will read the 6th book. My overall reaction when I finished this book was, \"Thank goodness I am done, I can read something good now!\" Sorry this is such a scalding review, but I am sooo disappointed that this series can't be more consistent! ...more The high-tension in the story seemingly retreated back to zero. Honestly, this is not a novel about vampires that give you that awe-struck factor when you first read it. But the last 3 novels: Betrayed, Chosen and Untamed actually gone beyond my expectations for something great in this series. The story followed an action-packed and heart pulsing pattern and that made me sit on edge. As I approached the end I thought the story is picking where it began again. The first five book seems to be the The high-tension in the story seemingly retreated back to zero. Honestly, this is not a novel about vampires that give you that awe-struck factor when you first read it. But the last 3 novels: Betrayed, Chosen and Untamed actually gone beyond my expectations for something great in this series. The story followed an action-packed and heart pulsing pattern and that made me sit on edge. As I approached the end I thought the story is picking where it began again. The first five book seems to be the consolidation of the first quest of Zoey in defeating evil; and the following books will reveal more enemies and wars. If this intuition is true, well maybe I will understand and at least continue reading this. I like how the authors threaded many love affairs between Zoey, Loren, Erik and Stark. Despite of being at the peek of the battle between good and evil, Zoey manages to maintain the humor as she busies herself with her boyfriend agendas. I have a strong feeling that Stark character will long accompany Zoey in this series. On the other hand, Eric good-looking factor is not longer spicing things up. In the previous books, I was really thankful that there was Eric in each book, but now my attention was focus on Heath.No matter how much I want the story to be twist and turn unexpectedly: for example Heath will be marked and be a fledgling,I realized how happy I am of his mundane personality. To wrap things up, if I will be talking about this book as a game, level 1 has just ended. Evil versus good, whoever wins, we know that it's not yet the end. It's just the beginning and the darker is yet to come. I hope HoN's readers won't give up on this series, just go on and you'll discover its worth. I bet this series has a lot of surprises to come. ...more I continue my love/hate relationship with this series. I love the overall story and want to know how it all unfolds, but I regularly find myself hating Zoe. I just find her so annoying. I realize she's only 17, but I give 17 year olds more credit than that. She can judge Aphrodite for drinking one night, but the fact that she's hooking up with four guys, no problem. I remain amazed that she thinks Erik has something to apologize for and that he forgives her, and she gets annoyed when he gets jea I continue my love/hate relationship with this series. I love the overall story and want to know how it all unfolds, but I regularly find myself hating Zoe. I just find her so annoying. I realize she's only 17, but I give 17 year olds more credit than that. She can judge Aphrodite for drinking one night, but the fact that she's hooking up with four guys, no problem. I remain amazed that she thinks Erik has something to apologize for and that he forgives her, and she gets annoyed when he gets jealous. I actually like Erik, Heath and Stark and remained amazed that were all willing to vie for her affections. And why is it that Jack has become such a homosexual stereotype? Sigh... In the end, I think Aphrodite and Darius were my favorite characters. They did manage to wrap up this story more than some of the other books. Neferet and Kalona are still out there, but the world is temporarily safe. Everyone is starting to view Zoey as the obvious successor to Neferet even though she has yet to go through the change. I'm curious to see where they take the series next. ...more I found this book from the House of Night series the darkest, but most interesting and capturing of the series so far. However, it seems that most of the important stuff happens in the last few chapters - where everything goes by really quickly - and the main body of the novel seems less important. I also like how you can get into the books in this series quite easily without having read the first few. I made the mistake of buying the second book first but only realised it when I went back to the I found this book from the House of Night series the darkest, but most interesting and capturing of the series so far. However, it seems that most of the important stuff happens in the last few chapters - where everything goes by really quickly - and the main body of the novel seems less important. I also like how you can get into the books in this series quite easily without having read the first few. I made the mistake of buying the second book first but only realised it when I went back to the shop and saw that Marked was first! On the other hand, if you become familiar with the series, some elements (which enable us to understand without the previous novels) become quite repetitive, especially within the first 3 chapters. Despite all of that, I really enjoyed it and it did not take long to devour! ...more Another enjoyable read. I am anxious for the next book to come out! Although I have to say reading these books makes me feel my age a weeeee bit. I am more of the \"Gag me with a Spoon\" goonies jokes generation, so the Gossip Girl jokes kinda fly over my head. Still - I really like these and my inner teenage girl wishes I could have read these. It would have been a nice stepping stone after my Sweet Valley High phase and before the Interview with a Vampire years.<---A>P.C. Cast</---A>", "Title": "Hunted"},
