{"Comments": "\u201cI have a meanness inside me, real as an organ. Slit me at my belly and it might slide out,<---M> meaty and dark</---M>, drop on the floor so you could stomp on it.\u201d I highly recommend reading this whilst sitting in the sun with plenty of happy people around you (<---B>as I did</---B>) - that way you can avoid contracting something evil and nasty from its pages, and also avoid losing any hope you had for humanity. Okay, sorry, I make it sound so negative when actually this book is pretty fantastic if you can stomach the \u201cI have a meanness inside me, real as an organ. Slit me at my belly and it might slide out, meaty and dark, drop on the floor so you could stomp on it.\u201d I highly recommend reading this whilst sitting in the sun with plenty of happy people around you (as I did) - that way you can avoid contracting something evil and nasty from its pages, and also avoid losing any hope you had for humanity. Okay, sorry, I make it sound so negative when actually this book is pretty fantastic if you can stomach the horrors within. I ate this up in a couple of days, finding every opportunity to read that I could... Flynn certainly has a talent for dragging you into her stories and having them take you over until you find out just what the hell is going on. As much as I enjoyed its dark predecessor - Sharp Objects - I think <+++>Dark Places</+++> was, for me, a more complex and well-developed mystery . I had many theories as to what was going on and all of them were wrong. You know, I honestly think that writing a mystery story must be the most difficult of all, because the reader is your enemy. Most readers of mystery stories will analyse the information they're given, pull it apart, and try desperately to solve the mystery before the characters do - and yet, if they are successful, they feel disappointed. For an author to manage to pull out something both surprising and convincingly real at the end of all this, they have to have a talent for it. <+++>Dark Places</+++> alternates between the present day and 1985 when Ben Day allegedly massacred three members of his family, his sister - Libby - being the only one to escape and testify as a witness, sending Ben to a life in prison. Now, after years of living on the donations made by concerned members of the public, <---C>Libby Day</---C> has finally run out of money and is forced to earn some cash by making an appearance at a group meeting where the members believe Ben is innocent. At first, Libby is willing to write them off as crazy fanatics with a grisly obsession... but as more information is presented to her, she starts to question what really happened all those years ago. The story is told from three main points of view and, to say I'm not a fan of multiple perspectives, I thought it was done excellently. Patty Day is an exhausted mother-of-four who starts to fear her son is becoming involved in satanic rituals; torn between wanting to protect him and being a little afraid of what his behaviour means, we begin to question through her eyes whether the heavy metal-loving loner could really have it in him to become a murderer. Then we have Ben Day's point of view. Being inside his mind is a little frightening - we see how his thoughts become increasingly dark, how just wanting to have something normal can lead to the most abnormal behaviour... but does that mean he would really murder his family? And, of course, there is Libby Day. Libby Day is the reason I think I enjoy Flynn's novels so much. She is so imperfect, complex, selfish, violent... but somehow you manage to stay on her side. I have no idea how the author manages this, but I've always loved a protagonist with issues, the kind of issues that make them lash out in ways that would make you hate them if you weren't inside their head, understanding them. She does some horrible things and, though you don't necessarily forgive her for them, you are able to see why. If you're okay reading about filth, gore, and underage sex, then you should dive into this mystery straight away and immerse yourself in the disturbing but awesome mental workings of <---A>Gillian Flynn</---A> . Last updated: April 2016 Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more I loved the writing style and the characterization so much--Gillian Flynn is a fantastic author! And I was so hooked by the mystery right away, I just flew through this book. Toward the end I did feel like we lost a little steam, but all the twists and revelations still kept things interesting, and overall I thoroughly enjoyed this! Definitely looking forward to seeing the movie, and probably picking up Gone Girl very soon here! i was not a lovable child, and i'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. draw a picture of my soul, and it'd be a scribble with fangs. gillian flynn sure does love writing about horrible people doing horrible things.and i sure do love reading about them. especially because she isn't one of those writers coasting on shock value and \"can you belieeeeeve a delicate flower of a woman is writing this??\" but she can really tell a story and i, for one, was completely surprised and pleased by the ending o i was not a lovable child, and i'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. draw a picture of my soul, and it'd be a scribble with fangs. gillian flynn sure does love writing about horrible people doing horrible things.and i sure do love reading about them. especially because she isn't one of those writers coasting on shock value and \"can you belieeeeeve a delicate flower of a woman is writing this??\" but she can really tell a story and i, for one, was completely surprised and pleased by the ending of this one. libby's mother and two older sisters were murdered when she was seven years old, apparently in some sort of satanic bloodbath masterminded by her older brother ben. she escaped and was instrumental in getting him put behind bars, in one of those \"lean on the kid and make them say what needs to be said to convict someone\" situations. twenty-five years later, she is a mess - a flat broke kleptomaniac, pissed off at the world, and terrible at any social expectations, until she is approached by a group whose specialty is studying violent crimes, trading memorabilia, constructing alternate scenarios of horrorshows; criminal tourists. and libby pumps them for cash while promising to look into the crime she lived through, and reconnect with her brother and father in order to solve a crime she believes has already been solved. but it is far from over, man. there are all kinds of things she is going to learn about that night, and about her family, and about her own self.<---F> and it's going to get creepy</---F>. it is great, great, great. it is not perfect - i personally had some difficulties with character motivation and behavior, but it doesn't matter because it all works within flynn's dirty little world, and she manages to convince you that these characters are going to do what they are going to do within their need-spheres, and just because it doesn't make sense to youuuuu, just be thankful for that, yeah? it is really chilling stuff - oh, god - remember the frenzy of satanic finger-pointing of the 80's? there were cults everywhere, right? all the animal sacrifices and the heavy metal music and the teenage killers under the spell of the dark one? and even though none of it ever panned out into anything, that frenzy, that imagined threat was so convincing to so many pearl-clutching mothers. it would be adorable now, except for reading this book, and remembering that actual people were accused and convicted because of half-whispered urban legends. oops. it's a great bloody crime story. its pacing is sublime; she always knows just how far to take the reader before switching up the focus to cause the maximum amount of anticipatory distress, she knows how to cover her tracks and how to deliver the most effective kaboom of an ending. and you might not like any of these characters, but you will still sympathize with them, despite your better instincts. i seem to have run out of gillian flynn books. more, please. ...more As seen on The Readventurer Seriously, what goes on in Gillian Flynn 's head? She writes the freakiest stuff. Sharp Objects was nasty enough, and Dark Places is just as vile. Luckily for her, I (along with millions of people) like vile now and then. Libby Day is a sole survivor of a horrendous massacre. Her mother and two sisters were brutally killed one winter night and, mostly thanks to Libby's testimony, the murders were attributed to Libby's older brother Ben, an alleged active Satan worshiper. As seen on The Readventurer Seriously, what goes on in Gillian Flynn 's head? She writes the freakiest stuff. Sharp Objects was nasty enough, and Dark Places is just as vile. Luckily for her, I (along with millions of people) like vile now and then. Libby Day is a sole survivor of a horrendous massacre. Her mother and two sisters were brutally killed one winter night and, mostly thanks to Libby's testimony, the murders were attributed to Libby's older brother Ben, an alleged active Satan worshiper. Now, almost 25 years later, 32-year old Libby is out of money that had been donated to her by well-wishers over the years and must look for a new source of income. She settles on helping the Kill Club (a group of obsessed women who believe in Ben's innocence) to re-investigate the murders, for money of course. As Libby starts talking to various people involved in the original investigation at the Kill Club's request, her strong belief in Ben's guilt starts wavering... I am fairly certain now that Gillian Flynn 's \"schtick\" is writing about VERY BAD women. We are presented with an array of them in Dark Places - they lie to get attention, they abuse, they blackmail, they mooch, they kill, they are weak and pathetic. It is, no doubt, a novel approach to women empowerment. If women are equal to men, they can be equally despicable, right? The men are no better - they are good-for-nothing losers mostly. What I am getting at is that you can hardly find any likable characters in this book, which for many readers is a must (not me though). The story itself is gruesome. Prepare yourself for brutal killings, molestation, bullying, Satan worshiping, drugs and underage sex. Some parts are so tough to read, I had to put the book aside for awhile. But underneath the filth, there is a great mystery - well-paced, suspenseful, full of red herrings, it keeps you guessing until the very last moment who the perpetrator is. Just like Sharp Objects , this book is absolutely not for everybody. But I thoroughly enjoyed this freaky thriller and will wait with anticipation for the release of Gillian Flynn 's next macabre mystery. ...more Normally I wouldn't give a genre book like this a 5-star review, because I'm picky and controlling about handing out major praise. How could a crime/mystery be as good as, say, Thomas Hardy or Alice Munro? Apples and oranges. But I just finished this about five minutes ago, and it made me gasp. It's so good -- a well-paced page-turner, beautifully wrought. I literally couldn't put it down for longer than a couple hours at a time once I picked it up (with the exception of sleep). According to her A Normally I wouldn't give a genre book like this a 5-star review, because I'm picky and controlling about handing out major praise. How could a crime/mystery be as good as, say, Thomas Hardy or Alice Munro? Apples and oranges. But I just finished this about five minutes ago, and it made me gasp. It's so good -- a well-paced page-turner, beautifully wrought. I literally couldn't put it down for longer than a couple hours at a time once I picked it up (with the exception of sleep). According to her Acknowledgements, Flynn did significant research to write this, and it shows -- it's assured, detailed, and often heart-wrenching. There are no loose ends, and when they tie up, they tie up so naturally, unfolding at such a realistic pace, that you feel like this could really have happened. Nothing -- except maybe for the Kill Club, the ball that gets the narrator Libby's investigation rolling -- is farfetched. For what this is -- a genre novel echoing In Cold Blood, crossed with southern gothic -- it's superior. But even outside the mystery/crime genre, this book is a better, more skillful, funnier, more emotional and more fascinating read than most of the literary fiction I've read lately. Libby Day is a fantastic heroine/anti-heroine; real, three dimensional, funny, dark, bent and broken, but not beyond repair. I so enjoyed taking this ride with her and am sorry the book had to end. This is very high praise coming from me, because I read constantly and I hardly ever have this feeling about anything. I can't wait to read \"Sharp Objects,\" though I'm dreading it at the same time, because I really can't afford to let another book usurp all my time for three straight days. ...more {BR with Scarlet} \"The truly frightening flaw in humanity is our capacity for cruelty - we all have it.\" I have no emotions left. This is a book that will stay with me forever. It left me speechless in different ways, with pretty intense emotions from anger and sadness coupled with hopelessness. This is not just a thriller/mystery/suspense novel but an absolute psychological roller coaster. I found myself almost too scared to keep reading, but so riveted I just HAD to find out what would happen {BR with Scarlet} \"The truly frightening flaw in humanity is our capacity for cruelty - we all have it.\" I have no emotions left. This is a book that will stay with me forever. It left me speechless in different ways, with pretty intense emotions from anger and sadness coupled with hopelessness. This is not just a thriller/mystery/suspense novel but an absolute psychological roller coaster. I found myself almost too scared to keep reading, but so riveted I just HAD to find out what would happen next. Gillian Flynn is an amazing writer, with the kind of storytelling and style that will have you biting your nails in anticipation. Just when I thought I knew where it was going it would take me on another track altogether. The book is outstanding, in the way it is written, and the issues it covers. I love broken characters. As long as I find their struggle compelling, I\u2019ll get on board with the most degenerate, immoral characters imaginable. The main character, Libby, is one of the most compelling characters I've ever read. She is a very complex character. She isn't good or bad, she's just heartbroken and frightened. Libby is definitely the biggest victim in the book, but she also makes mistakes, and says some pretty harsh things. No one in this book is portrayed as being completely innocent. There are all sorts of crazy characters in this novel- some of them crazier than others. Dark Places is startling in its honesty about life, destructive human behavior and mental health. I wasn\u2019t even really bothered by the plot twists that were a bit far-fetched. The experience of reading the book was excellent enough for me to not really care about that. There really is nothing else to say other than this is an excellent book and I enjoyed it immensely. ...more I have now officially read all of Gillian Flynn's books, and I really enjoyed this one! The story and the characters were so twisted, and the last hour or so of the audiobook was insaaaane. Gillian Flynn's first novel, Sharp Objects, was interestingly disturbing; in fact, it walked a razor-thin line between \"Huh, you certainly don't read that every day\" and \"Gillian Flynn has some serrrriiiious issues and I'm a little bit afraid of her\". I wasn't sure whether I respected her extremely dark side or her dark side is so dark it makes her books kind of uncomfortable to read. Strangely enough (once you know the story outline) Dark Places actually has a more conventional plot than Sharp Gillian Flynn's first novel, Sharp Objects, was interestingly disturbing; in fact, it walked a razor-thin line between \"Huh, you certainly don't read that every day\" and \"Gillian Flynn has some serrrriiiious issues and I'm a little bit afraid of her\". I wasn't sure whether I respected her extremely dark side or her dark side is so dark it makes her books kind of uncomfortable to read. Strangely enough (once you know the story outline) Dark Places actually has a more conventional plot than Sharp Objects, and having just discussed Jodi Picoult at some length with Marie, I was totally in a place to read a book with alternating points of view which would normally exasperate me, I think. Some reviewers have pointed out there is absolutely no one to like in the book, but I agree with the reviewers who point out the fact that Libby is not at all likable is actually more compelling, because the stunted (in every possible way), damaged (in every possible way) adult she is is a response to the life she has lived. So I think it's a good thing that every character in the book is frustrating or enraging or downright disgusting. That's more truthful, really, I think. All that being said, I can't say I enjoyed the book. I certainly didn't put the book down; I read it in one day. But the device used to galvanize Libby into action in the beginning of the book is very, very weak and that put me off. Also, despite unconventional characters and a really, really, really, really REALLLLLLLY serious devotion to bloody crime scenes, in the end the book just devolves into a who-really-done-it mystery that felt kind of, well, dull. SOMEBODY done it, and we'd either find out eventually or Flynn would confound us with \"ha ha, you'll never really know what happened!\"--either way I wasn't really all that excited to find out who-really-done-it just because the whole red-herring \"she did it! no, HE did it! no, another person entirely did it!\" trope is boring and even disappointing, coming from Flynn. I'm not even sure which of Flynn's two books I like better. I am interested in reading her next book. Still, there is something off-putting at the same time about her... interests? Passions? She is really serious about really studying really disturbed people doing really disturbing things and at some points in both books it feels... not over the top, but almost... well, creepy. She's like that strange neighborhood kid who lives in that weird house and who is a little too fascinated by chopping earthworms in half or seeing what happens when you burn ants, or something. I read just one of Lionel Shriver's books and it was so upsetting to me I absolutely refuse to ever read any of her books again, because she seemed to take a sly enjoyment in really pushing her characters into more and more awful places, mentally and physically. I don't quite feel that way about Flynn yet, but there's just something about her books that's too...hot-breathed for me. ...more Gripping and entertained! DAYS GO BY You gotta believe in something, right? Everyone has their thing. This is my second novel by Gillian Flynn, and now I am realizing that I have been reading them backwards, I mean in the opposite publishing order, but this has been due mainly the order of film adaptations. However, I won\u2019t wait until having any film adaptation of Sharp Objects , to read that one. I do hope to read it in the following months. My reading experience with Gone Girl wasn\u2019t any good Gripping and entertained! DAYS GO BY You gotta believe in something, right? Everyone has their thing. This is my second novel by Gillian Flynn, and now I am realizing that I have been reading them backwards, I mean in the opposite publishing order, but this has been due mainly the order of film adaptations. However, I won\u2019t wait until having any film adaptation of Sharp Objects , to read that one. I do hope to read it in the following months. My reading experience with Gone Girl wasn\u2019t any good as I would expect, BUT I have to admit that it has a really unique narration style making it worhty to be in anyone\u2019s TBR book list. And odd enough I enjoyed A LOT the film adaptation of that one, while I watched after reading the book and taking in account that it\u2019s basically the same story, but I enjoyed it better in the movie format. I wasn\u2019t sure how much I\u2019d enjoy this book, Dark Places , but happily I can say that the reading experience with this novel was truly wonderful. Maybe it lacks of more intense action at the climax (I won't spoil it, don't worry), but definitely I enjoy a lot the whole reading experience of the book. I am truly glad of deciding to read it. I still have to watch the movie (at the moment that I am writing this review) but I hope to be able to watch it soon. HAVE A NICE DAY And every single person in this case lies, is lying, did lie. Dark Places is the tragic and grim story of the Day Family, told in the voices of Libby Day (main character), Patty Day (her mother) and Ben Day (his brother). Libby\u2019s family had just the opposite a nice day, like 25 years ago... ...her mother and her two other sisters were murdered and Ben, his brother was charged with the killings, getting a conviction where Libby\u2019s testimony was a key factor for it. Now, Libby is an adult woman, and very soon she will be totally penniless. She got many donations around the country (United States), mainly at the momento of the tragedy, and she has been able to dispose of the money too good. She never studied, never worked, never did anything. Libby is exposed to a singular kind of fans about unsolved murders or cases where the convictions have something wrong. A Killing Club, reuniting former cops, former detectives and even regular people interested about police cases. She is shocked to know that there are too many people believing that his brother is innocent, and her own doubts about what really happened that terrible night, 25 years ago, are starting to increase big. Between her personal reasons of wanting to know what really happened that dark night and her current struggling economic status, Libby thinks that she can kill two birds with one stone, since this \u201cKilling Club\u201d is willing to pay her enough money to go and interview the people involved in the case and since she is Libby Day, there is a high potential that that people would open in an easier way to her than strangers. Readers will get to know, slowly but methodically, exactly what happened that terrible day, having chapters with the voice of Libby right now, but also the voices of Patty and Ben, but those two set back in the past, on that fateful day. Present and past will be intermixed offering the pieces of the puzzle that the readers want to put together, BUT it won\u2019t be easy since human beings are natural liars and the Day Family isn\u2019t better if not worse. MAKE MY DAY That\u2019s what they were: a home past the expiration date. It\u2019s obvious that the case of the Day Family\u2019s murders wasn\u2019t handle as it should, but it\u2019s amazing how easy an alibi can be stated. Unless there is some evidence putting you in the crime scene, it seems that basically you only need to convince somebody else to say that you were with him/her at the moment of the crime, and bam! You\u2019re off the hook! Nobody is perfect, but certainly the Day Family never tried any hard to be one. You will have an unique access to the minds and feeling of three of the main members of the family, but also, thanks to them, you will get to know the rest of members of this broken kindred. You won\u2019t have heroes here. Only survivors. And certainly when money is scarse, the Day Family doesn\u2019t hesitate to make crazy hard calls. Blood is thicker than water, so families\u2019 bonds are strong to smash, but also, families aren\u2019t a static things but in constant evolution, and due that bloods can become even more thicker, specially if something isn\u2019t quite right (to say the least) in your head. SEIZE THE DAY Everyone who keeps a secret itches to tell it. A mystery is something great, it\u2019s something wonderful, since a mystery always is screaming to be solved. A mystery exists to be solved... ...but a secret? A secret is something intimidating, it\u2019s something maddening, since a secret always is silently screaming to remain unspoken, hidden. Knowing about the existence of a secret is a contradiction itself. Therefore, people do their best to keep the secrets, but it\u2019s something too heavy, so, to lighten some of the burden, people become crafty to \u201cexpose\u201d the secret at plain sight, but in a clever way. Even dark places aren\u2019t enough to keep a secret. Meet the Day Family... ...at your own risk! ...more As someone who grew up in rural Kansas and has lived in the suburbs of Kansas City for the last fourteen years, I made my peace long ago with the fact that I don\u2019t reside in one of the hip places on the map. The only Kansas based things that have worked their way into popular culture are In Cold Blood and that goddamn Wizard of Oz . (As a Kansan, I listen to everyone I\u2019ve met from somewhere else do the \u201cI guess you\u2019re not in Kansas anymore! Ha ha!\u201d thing and can barely resist the urge to punch th As someone who grew up in rural Kansas and has lived in the suburbs of Kansas City for the last fourteen years, I made my peace long ago with the fact that I don\u2019t reside in one of the hip places on the map. The only Kansas based things that have worked their way into popular culture are In Cold Blood and that goddamn Wizard of Oz . (As a Kansan, I listen to everyone I\u2019ve met from somewhere else do the \u201cI guess you\u2019re not in Kansas anymore! Ha ha!\u201d thing and can barely resist the urge to punch them in the throat.) But it seems like every book, film or tv show is set in either New York or L.A. with a few other places like Miami, Chicago or Boston thrown in now and then. I think half the reason I\u2019m such a huge fan of John Sandford is that most of his books are set in Minneapolis, and he\u2019s shown that there actually is life in the Midwest. I know that the folks who run the various entertainment industries like to talk about getting us off our tractors long enough to sample their wares, but it seems like the only attempts to include us in the stories either mock us as morons or sentimentalize small town life to vomit inducing degrees. Gillian Flynn is originally from Kansas City, and her first book was very well received so I was excited to hear that Dark Places was set in both rural Kansas and K.C. Of course, it involved the slaughter of a family on the prairie, going back to the In Cold Blood thing, but I\u2019ll take what I can get. I was excited to get one of the rare chances to read a story set in the place I live. Unfortunately, Flynn didn\u2019t do her old hometown any favors because it seems like she singled out every depressing aspect like the run down old stockyards and warehouse district that\u2019s got some of the worst urban decay in the area. Or I-70 between K.C. and St. Louis that is filled with tacky billboards and low rent strip clubs. One restaurant that she uses as a location recently burned to the ground, and its owner is charged with arson. I know she was telling a story about the aftermath of a brutal crime and how it screwed up the sole survivor, but damn! Would it have killed her to have a character pop down to Power & Light for a drink? The K.C. tourism board would have thanked her for it. Enough of my bitching. About the book: Back in 1985 on a rundown Kansas farm, a mother and two daughters are brutally killed. Young Libby Day manages to survive by fleeing the house, and it\u2019s her testimony that convicts her fifteen year old brother Ben of the crime. Supposedly, Ben was a Satan worshipping freak who went shotgun and axe happy one winter night. In the present, thirty-one year old Libby is a freaking mess. She doesn\u2019t make it out of bed some days, she\u2019s a kleptomaniac, she has no friends, and she usually can\u2019t even manage to take care of simple things like remembering to buy cat food, wash her sheets or fill her ice cube trays. Libby has been living off the trust fund that started when donations poured in after the murders, but the money is about to run out. Desperate, Libby agrees to a paid appearance for the Kill Club, a group of amateur investigators who think that her brother is innocent. Libby doesn\u2019t even want to think about her brother, but offers of more cash get her motivated to start visiting people connected to the murders. Suddenly, Libby isn\u2019t so sure that Ben was the killer after all. The story is told in two parallel ways. We get Libby\u2019s first person account of her activities in the present, while a third person narrative of the last day of her family gives us the background of what happened in 1985. This is a character based mystery, and Flynn does a great job with both the struggling Libby in the present and the family in 1985. The stark reality of a poor farm family in the mid-\u201980s along with Libby\u2019s pathetic life as an adult makes for a pretty depressing story, but Flynn really sucks the reader into the plight of everyone involved. I was somewhat let down by the ending, but I can\u2019t say much about that without spoilers. While this book probably won\u2019t convince anyone to move to Kansas, it\u2019s a good read for those who don\u2019t mind a raw story about just how much life can sometimes suck, even if you don\u2019t get chopped to bits with an axe. ...more *4.5 Stars* Gillian Flynn scares me\u2026 But it\u2019s a good scare! A keep-you-up-all-night-anxiously-reading-because-closing-the-book-is-not-an-option kinda scare. If you thought Gone Girl was twisted, make room for Dark Places because this suspenseful thriller takes \u201cfreaky\u201d to whole new level. I went in thinking I was fully prepared\u2026 I wasn\u2019t. This book is so astoundingly demented, it truly makes me wonder exactly how Miss Flynn thinks up such uniquely bold scenarios. The plot is so \u201cout-there\u201d, yet *4.5 Stars* Gillian Flynn scares me\u2026 But it\u2019s a good scare! A keep-you-up-all-night-anxiously-reading-because-closing-the-book-is-not-an-option kinda scare. If you thought Gone Girl was twisted, make room for Dark Places because this suspenseful thriller takes \u201cfreaky\u201d to whole new level. I went in thinking I was fully prepared\u2026 I wasn\u2019t. This book is so astoundingly demented, it truly makes me wonder exactly how Miss Flynn thinks up such uniquely bold scenarios. The plot is so \u201cout-there\u201d, yet way too close\u2026creating a palpable level of discomfort for the reader\u2014but I, for one, could not look away. This author knows how to stretch the creep-factor to its limits\u2014just short of over-the-top\u2014delivering a crazy, yet still fathomable plot. She masters descriptions until the details begin materializing\u2014and suddenly you're visualizing them whether you\u2019re trying to or not. Libby Day \u2026what a truly unique and unforgettable character. So mentally and emotionally deranged, you cant help but want to reach out to her\u2026(with a six foot pole, of course.) Because she feels so damn real. Her thoughts, her actions\u2014so cynical and bitter. But who wouldn't be after experiencing the torment she has\u2026 I assumed everything bad in the world could happen, because everything bad in the world already did happen. Libby\u2019s family was brutally murdered in their home, but little seven-year old Libby somehow survived the gruesome massacre. Largely due to Libby\u2019s testimony, her wallflower brother becomes tried and convicted for these satanic murders. Now Libby is a grown woman who is beginning to question the details of that fateful night long ago. A night she has buried deep inside, desperate to forget. But there are things that refuse to be forgotten\u2026 And so begins the suspenseful journey, as the plot intensely glides through past and present, alternating between a first and third person perspective\u2014Libby serving as the story\u2019s narrator. And her unhappy, defeated voice is one I will not forget. With this particular story, I think the writing won me over even more so than the plot. Although I was completely sucked into the mystery, marathon-guessing like it was my job , the ending somehow left me ever-so-slightly disappointed. It\u2019s difficult to place my finger on why. I wanted BIG, but maybe this was a little too big? I\u2019m still unsure. In any case, this author is a true genius in the art of storytelling, and I will read anything she writes. But for now, I\u2019m off to read something happy(ish)\u2026 Book Stats: \u25aa \u00a0Genre/Category: Mystery/Thriller \u25aa \u00a0Steam Caliber: Racy and bold \u25aa Romance: Twisted \u25aa \u00a0Characters: Unlovable but unforgettable \u25aa \u00a0Plot: A twisty and suspenseful murder mystery \u25aa Writing: Flawless, poetic, bold, and edgy \u25aa POV: Switches between 3rd and 1st person: heroine \u25aa \u00a0Cliffhanger: None/Standalone \u25aa \u00a0HEA? (view spoiler) [ Yes, in its own way. (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Lesson learned # 1 : Gillian Flynn is excellent at creating unpleasant characters and disturbing situations. \u201cI was not a lovable child, and I'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. Draw a picture of my soul, and it'd be a scribble with fangs.\u201d Lesson learned # 2 : Reading her books in a dark apartment at 3 am is a big making-skin-crawl mistake. Dark Places is a book capable of leaving a nasty aftertaste and vague uncomfortable feeling for days after finishing it. I strongly suspect it is its inte Lesson learned # 1 : Gillian Flynn is excellent at creating unpleasant characters and disturbing situations. \u201cI was not a lovable child, and I'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. Draw a picture of my soul, and it'd be a scribble with fangs.\u201d Lesson learned # 2 : Reading her books in a dark apartment at 3 am is a big making-skin-crawl mistake. Dark Places is a book capable of leaving a nasty aftertaste and vague uncomfortable feeling for days after finishing it. I strongly suspect it is its intended effect. For which I almost grudgingly\u00b9 have to say to Flynn - nice work there. \u00b9 Why grudgingly? Because this book made me feel torn. When I think of it, it's almost like I think of two separate books: a bit contrived and shoddily resolved murder mystery as well as an excellently disturbing voyage into the unpleasant recesses of human mind. These two impressions of mine seem to be split almost exclusively along the framework of the story: the unsatisfying bit being mostly the story of present-day Libby Day, told in the first person as she struggles to find the answers to the worst thing that happened in her life; and the unpleasant but good parts of the story set a quarter of the century prior, seen through the eyes of Libby's mother and brother. Libby Day's family was brutally slaughtered 25 years ago, and it was Libby's testimony - a confused, clearly coached recollection of a seven-year-old child - that landed her fifteen-year-old brother behind bars for life. Except that now Libby - adult and aimlessly floating through life in a quite unpleasantly pathetic fashion - has reasons to doubt her brother's guilt, and, shaken up from her stupor by a plot contrivance, is on a search to unearth old well-hidden ghosts and uncover what actually happened on a cold January day 25 years ago in a middle-of-nowhere town, Missouri. Yes, the murders themselves, regardless of how gruesome they may be, are not the disturbing part, not at all. The nastiness comes from the people involved - Libby herself, her maybe-innocent-maybe-not brother, her repulsive good-for-nothing father, and a few more key players of that fateful, as it turned out, day. Libby's story - unfortunately, it's not that great. Mind it, the actual character of Libby Day is quite interesting. She is pathetic in her almost parasitic existence, and knows her own unlikability very well. But the storyline itself - it does not stand out that much, and Libby's inevitable waking up from her couple of decades of stupor feels a bit contrived. The interactions between Libby and everyone else around her are uninspired. It's mediocre, and gets not even a second thought from me. Bleh. Where the story shines is Ben Day's sections. The maybe-innocent then fifteen-year-old boy from a poor farm family, confused and dangerously naive on some things, longing to be accepted and be somebody to such an extent that he's dangerously balanced on a sharp edge, willing to passively drift somewhere borne along in the stronger current of those around him, and getting progressively and disturbingly angrier with each page. It's Ben's downward dangerous slide that kept me awake in the wee hours of the night, turning pages, feeling the empty hollowness deep in my stomach as the events were taking their merciless turn, and making me feel torn and unsettled. Ben Day, dangerous in how lost he is, frightening in how far into darkness his mind slides, surrounded by unhealthy twisted horrible creepy nastiness all around him. His story made me want to have my faith in humanity somehow reaffirmed, preferably in the bright sunshine with a cocktail in my hand, maybe by the poolside - anything to take the nasty darkness away. Overall, thanks to Ben's story, it was a memorable read. It's far from ideal, yes, but memorable nevertheless. Now I do feel compelled to get my hands on the one remaining Gillian Flynn book I haven't read, and check out her future literary offerings. She has such potential, and I'm looking forward to one day seeing it fully realized. 3.5/5 stars. ------------------ Old 'review': Still unsure about the rating. Reason: brain still a bit disturbed and shorted out. Decision to finish this book in the dark apartment at 3 am was, well, questionable. ...more 4.5 stars . *breathes deeply* What a ride! Finally a mystery that keeps its appeal intact after the first 50% and does not make me roll my eyes all duh! like in the end. Let's see why, shall we? \u25ba Highly recommended if you can stomach the depression. *whispers* In the end, I even rooted for Libby. Don't ask me why. I just did. Nobody's perfect, okay? I said that the characters made me sick, but oh, the sadness. The despair. The misunderstandings. The loneliness. My heart aches from lack of hope. 4.5 stars . *breathes deeply* What a ride! Finally a mystery that keeps its appeal intact after the first 50% and does not make me roll my eyes all duh! like in the end. Let's see why, shall we? \u25ba Highly recommended if you can stomach the depression. *whispers* In the end, I even rooted for Libby. Don't ask me why. I just did. Nobody's perfect, okay? I said that the characters made me sick, but oh, the sadness. The despair. The misunderstandings. The loneliness. My heart aches from lack of hope. For more of my reviews, please visit: _______________________ PRE-REVIEW This is me being all contradictory : Once a year, Romance week is coming and finds me waving from a distance. As much as I love my fluffy reads, everything Valentine's Day related tends to annoy me greatly. Cynical, me? Nope. Try being born on February 14th and getting an indecent amount of heart shaped cards, gifts, stuff over the years. I can assure you that it does get old . I resist as I can, okay? Strike one. Nb. I made my dark week banner with the free label found here from http://lilac-n-lavender.blogspot.fr/2... (lilac and lavender) ...more This is by far my favorite book ever! I started this knowing how much I enjoyed Gone Girl and when I got started with this I couldn't put it down. My soul bonded to this book from the first word. Page turner and an unforgettable ride. A hell of a ride. The movie is just as good and I can rarely say that about books and movies. Ugh, great, spectacular, amazing, eventful, mind-blowing, utterly fantastic. Read this book!!!!!! After reading Gillian Flynn's Gone Girl I knew I had to read her other no This is by far my favorite book ever! I started this knowing how much I enjoyed Gone Girl and when I got started with this I couldn't put it down. My soul bonded to this book from the first word. Page turner and an unforgettable ride. A hell of a ride. The movie is just as good and I can rarely say that about books and movies. Ugh, great, spectacular, amazing, eventful, mind-blowing, utterly fantastic. Read this book!!!!!! After reading Gillian Flynn's Gone Girl I knew I had to read her other novels. I AM SO GLAD I DID! Out of her three novels, Dark Places is by far my favorite. This book had that dark element to it that made me want to read and read and read. I had a very hard time putting it down to deal with reality. My mother read it at the same time as I did and she kept calling me throughout the book and telling me about it. We both enjoyed it. I love books like this one, where the main character has a skewed idea of what really happened and then goes on a journey to learn the real fate of that horrible night... and it was indeed a horrible night. I truly felt for this family and the fates they all suffered. I think a part of every one of them died that night. Superb novel!!!! Read and watch movie if you haven't! Both are spectacular. ...more Well. I can't really say that I liked this book. None of the characters are likable, including the main character. Libby Day's family was killed by her brother when she was 7. By the time she hits 30, she's still 7 inside, her inner growth stunted by the tragedy. She can barely take care of herself, has never had a job, and suddenly the money that strangers donated out of charity over the years is down to about $900. To replenish her bank account, Libby grudgingly agrees to pimp herself out to a Well. I can't really say that I liked this book. None of the characters are likable, including the main character. Libby Day's family was killed by her brother when she was 7. By the time she hits 30, she's still 7 inside, her inner growth stunted by the tragedy. She can barely take care of herself, has never had a job, and suddenly the money that strangers donated out of charity over the years is down to about $900. To replenish her bank account, Libby grudgingly agrees to pimp herself out to a group of people obsessed with the Day murders and with proving that her brother isn't really guilty. Along the way, she starts to have doubts herself and the real story unfolds between her present-day sleuthing and flashbacks to her mother's and brother's point-of-view from the day of the killings. As I said, no one is likable. I wanted to slap everyone, and I found it impossible to feel any sympathy towards Libby despite her trauma. Gillian Flynn is disturbingly good at creating characters who are beyond messed up and irritating, to the point where you start to wonder what sort of inner darkness she harbors (on the contrary, her Author's Notes always make her sound very well adjusted. At the end of this book, she charmingly promises her mom that she will someday write a book where the mother is neither evil nor killed). Nothing about the dark story that's filled with hopelessness and screw-ups made me feel good about reading it. To use a well-worn phrase, it was almost like a train wreck. I will hasten to add though, a very well-written train wreck, one with fabulous pacing that rushes along at a breakneck speed and refuses to let you take a breather. It gripped me, kept me guessing, and totally sucked me in with the great voice that Flynn gave the unlikable Libby. I almost felt like I WAS Libby, and it reminded me of the single-minded focus that Tana French 's books inspired, where I had to almost physically extract myself from the book once I was finished. I think I liked French's books much better, but I'm very glad to keep coming across such talented women in the mystery genre. Not a beach book. Not a feel-good story of the year. But damn highly recommended. ...more This book was insaaaaane. But so so good. Dark Places was my first Gillian Flynn book (though I have seen the Gone Girl movie) but I fully plan on picking up her other books now. It\u2019s the kind of novel that makes you question what on earth we humans can come up with. I kept wondering what was going on in Gyllian Flynn\u2019s head. How does she think of these things? Dark Places is vile, macabre and gruesome. The author doesn\u2019t hold back, instead she seemingly bombards you with everything ugly that is o This book was insaaaaane. But so so good. Dark Places was my first Gillian Flynn book (though I have seen the Gone Girl movie) but I fully plan on picking up her other books now. It\u2019s the kind of novel that makes you question what on earth we humans can come up with. I kept wondering what was going on in Gyllian Flynn\u2019s head. How does she think of these things? Dark Places is vile, macabre and gruesome. The author doesn\u2019t hold back, instead she seemingly bombards you with everything ugly that is out there. Vivid descriptions of bloody crime scenes, physical and psychological horrors, the most unlikable characters you can imagine. She gives us a glimpse into the mind-set of some truly twisted and messed up people who all carry around their own little dirty secrets. The truly frightening flaw in humanity is our capacity for cruelty - we all have it. But with the book\u2019s superb writing style and strong narrative, it all somehow works. The story kept me engaged all the way through and I found myself constantly thinking of the book when I wasn\u2019t reading, wondering who the culprit was. The story is told from three different POVs: From Libby Day in the present and from Ben and Patty Day in 1985. It was a day in the year of 1985 when Ben \u2013 Libby\u2019s older brother \u2013 allegedly murdered three members of his own family \u2013 including his mother, Patty, and two of his younger sisters \u2013 in cold blood. Only Libby somehow escaped the massacre. Libby\u2019s testimony against Ben condemns him to a lifelong imprisonment. Now, after having lived off donations her entire life, Libby\u2019s finances run out and she has to find a new way to earn enough money to survive. In an attempt to get the money without having to work, Libby makes an appearance at the \u201cKill Club\u201d, a secret society obsessed with solving crimes. She soon realizes however, that everyone in the club believes Ben innocent and her testimony to be false. At first, she dismisses these theories as fanatical talk, but as more and more information is presented to her, Libby realizes that maybe things aren\u2019t simple as she thought them to be. Dark Places is not a book I would necessarily call \u201cenjoyable\u201d. At times it is frightening and difficult to read: the author drags you into the story with the intrigue of the killings while simultaneously pushing you away with her deeply flawed characters. While reading I actually developed some scarily aggressive thoughts towards certain (most) characters. At times I got so angry I wanted to jump into the book and strangle them with my bare hands. Punch them in the face. Scratch out their eyes. I am NOT a violent person but look at what this book has done to me *shudders*. But as negative as these feelings were, I kind of loved it. I felt passionate about this book, which is something I\u2019ve been missing from my last couple of reads. Let\u2019s take a closer look at our protagonist, Libby Day . She is the epitome of a flawed character. Not quite an anti-hero, but definitely not a hero either, Libby is selfish, violent, lazy and anti-social, yet you somehow remain on her side and root for her. I have a meanness inside me, real as an organ. Slit me at my belly and it might slide out, meaty and dark, drop on the floor so you could stomp on it. You want her to succeed, despite the fact that she does some horrendous things. Do you forgive her for it? Not really, but it didn\u2019t matter. I didn\u2019t like Libby, but I understood her and that was enough. I was not a lovable child, and I'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. Draw a picture of my soul, and it'd be a scribble with fangs. Without a character like Libby that makes you care about the outcome of the story and gets you involved on an emotional level, the story wouldn\u2019t be what it is now. The mystery alone \u2013 though well-paced and suspenseful \u2013 wasn\u2019t enough for me to keep reading. It was the characters that made me want to keep going. The \u201cwho did it\u201d part of the novel is only half as interesting as the \u201chow did it come to that\u201d. In some ways, everyone is a little bit guilty and realizing that and seeing Libby come to terms with it was fascinating. Then we have our other main character, Ben Day. Seeing how his thoughts turned darker and darker as the story went along was a little scary. It makes the reader constantly question if he could truly be the murderer. Sometimes he felt like he'd been gone his whole life--in exile, away from the place he was supposed to be, and that, soldier-like, he was pining to be returned. Homesick for a place he'd never been. Plot and writing wise this book was also excellent. Gillian Flynn has some serious talent when it comes to writing unpredictable mysteries. She constantly kept me on my toes, giving me just enough information to keep me guessing and then be mislead. The alternating points of view were perhaps the biggest factor in making this story smooth and exciting throughout. The author certainly knows how to switch focus just in time to create the strongest sense of anticipation. My main criticism of the novel is that at times I felt the story was a little too dragged out and would have been even better if it was slightly shorter. I also questioned the necessity of having certain elements in the story. However, I obviously still greatly enjoyed the story. This is not a book for everyone; you need a certain taste for the dark and despicable to enjoy this story. Graphic descriptions violence, underage sex and molestation are all present. But if these things don\u2019t bother you, then you should most definitely give this book a try. ...more Dark Places is a masterpiece, composed of troubled characters,disturbing deeds and buried secrets.For me, it wasn't as good as Gone Girl or Sharp Objects but it still managed to be a fantastic mystery, full of suspense and tragedy.Gillian Flynn takes a similar route with her characters as Libby Day is a deeply troubled individual, seeking the truth behind her family's murder.She uncovers numerous shocking truths which shape this novel into a true page-turner. Libby Day is an incredibly complex ch Dark Places is a masterpiece, composed of troubled characters,disturbing deeds and buried secrets.For me, it wasn't as good as Gone Girl or Sharp Objects but it still managed to be a fantastic mystery, full of suspense and tragedy.Gillian Flynn takes a similar route with her characters as Libby Day is a deeply troubled individual, seeking the truth behind her family's murder.She uncovers numerous shocking truths which shape this novel into a true page-turner. Libby Day is an incredibly complex character who I found immediately interesting.Her history hooks you straight away and leaves you with a serious sense of unease.Her brother, Ben Day is another compelling character and he shares a narrative in this story with Libby and their mother, Patty. The story is told by consecutively switching between these three from the past and present.This adds a unique,gripping touch which makes you eager to read on to find out what happens.I couldn't pick a favourite narrative as I enjoyed them all equally as the insight into different perspectives is a thrilling aspect of the story. The plot is brilliantly constructed with so many lingering questions that make you invest more thought into the story and keeps you guessing.The mystery behind the murders and Ben just keeps unraveling, transpiring into something much more unpredictable. I loved the unpredictability Gillian Flynn manages to weave into her stories and she successfully does it here again.The book is so great as it thrives in so many areas which all come together to sculpt this gem.I did prefer the stories and mysteries in her other books but Dark Places is not a disappointment.I may have preferred her other books but I still love this one as it has so many strengths that flourish throughout the book. ...more I read Dark Places waaaaaaaay before I ever thought about writing giffy reviews for a hobby. That \u2018splains why there\u2019s always just been my 4 Star rating sitting here with no picture book accompaniment. But I live where this book takes place and I\u2019m familiar with the landmarks and the vibe of certain locales that made the action so tangible to me and soon it will hit the big screen filled with A-list actors in the starring roles causing people to poke around and find my ugly blank review space. I I read Dark Places waaaaaaaay before I ever thought about writing giffy reviews for a hobby. That \u2018splains why there\u2019s always just been my 4 Star rating sitting here with no picture book accompaniment. But I live where this book takes place and I\u2019m familiar with the landmarks and the vibe of certain locales that made the action so tangible to me and soon it will hit the big screen filled with A-list actors in the starring roles causing people to poke around and find my ugly blank review space. It\u2019s also come to the attention of me (and many others) that there is an EXCESSIVE amount of spamming bumping one\u2019s own reviews in order to remain at the top of the \u201cmost popular\u201d chart here on Goodreads. If you\u2019re wondering what kind of rewards you get for being on \u201cthe lists,\u201d it looks something kind of like this: And trust me when I say if reviews like mine can earn you a spot on any list, the bar is set pretty damn low. Therefore, I\u2019ve decided to use my review space for this book (and hopefully others when I run across them in the future) to link you to an actual review. One that is well-written and thought out and worthy of \u201clikes.\u201d Snotchocheez and I generally share the same opinion when it comes to what we read (with the exception of the occasional \u201csappy\u201d story). His review HERE of Dark Places is perfect and deserves the \u201clikes.\u201d Wanna play the bump game? I\u2019ll play too, but my way is a lot more fun because people will actually get to see other reviews and possibly make new friends : ) Snotchocheez, consider yourself to be Goodreads famous. Here\u2019s your official badge ; ) ...more Back in 2012 and early 2013, I remember hearing a lot about a baseball player named Mike Trout. Being a Cubs fan (see: suffering), I didn't get many chances to watch the Angels since they play late at night, and for me that's prime writing time. But my son and I got the opportunity to catch an Angels-Cubs game on July 10th, 2013, and I finally got the opportunity to watch Mike Trout play in person at Wrigley Field. His stat line? Three hits, two of them doubles. A walk. A stolen base. Some spark Back in 2012 and early 2013, I remember hearing a lot about a baseball player named Mike Trout. Being a Cubs fan (see: suffering), I didn't get many chances to watch the Angels since they play late at night, and for me that's prime writing time. But my son and I got the opportunity to catch an Angels-Cubs game on July 10th, 2013, and I finally got the opportunity to watch Mike Trout play in person at Wrigley Field. His stat line? Three hits, two of them doubles. A walk. A stolen base. Some sparkling defensive play in center field. He drove in a run and scored two more. The Angels, incidentally, beat my Cubbies thirteen-to-two that night. But my boy and I still had a blast. It truly is about being together. Yet as impressive as Trout's stats were, what impressed me most that night was the way he went about his business. There was attention to every single detail. His stance, his eye at the plate, his defensive readiness. This was a player who relished the process, who understood how much the little things mattered, who wasn't content to cruise through a game that was decided by the top of the second inning. Gillian Flynn reminds me of Mike Trout. I'd heard about her for years, but for whatever reason, I didn't take the plunge and try her work until last month. I'd seen (and loved) GONE GIRL, but figured I'd read one of her lesser known works first (if a book with more than 185,000 ratings on Goodreads could be termed \"lesser known\"). So what did I think of DARK PLACES? I thought it was outstanding. The labyrinthine/Gothic plotting, the manner in which the past interacted with the present, the character arcs and unflinching willingness to venture into the nastier thickets of the human psyche. All of it worked for me. Swimmingly. But what impressed me even more was Flynn's *writing*. In every sentence there was attention and care. Her word choice was impeccable. Every character, no matter how minor, was rendered in a distinct, memorable way. Flynn never used her minor players as incidental flotsam; instead, she took the time to make them dangerous or heartbreaking or misguided or eerily relatable. In other words, Gillian Flynn is the Mike Trout of modern fiction. A fairly newish author (okay, new to me!) who respects the game and who plays it the way it's meant to be played. I really dug DARK PLACES, but I went crazy over Flynn's writing. I suspected I would, but I needed to be sure. Man, can Gillian rake. ...more \"I was not a lovable child, and I'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. Draw a picture of my soul and it'd be a scribble with fangs.\" Flynn has a gift for creating absolutely despicable characters that you can't help but sympathize with. Everyone in this book is horrible, from the narrator's ten-year-old sister, who is a gossip-monger and blackmails people for their silence, to the deadbeat dad who physically threatens his wife for money. Even the main character, Libby, isn't spared. She's the \"I was not a lovable child, and I'd grown into a deeply unlovable adult. Draw a picture of my soul and it'd be a scribble with fangs.\" Flynn has a gift for creating absolutely despicable characters that you can't help but sympathize with. Everyone in this book is horrible, from the narrator's ten-year-old sister, who is a gossip-monger and blackmails people for their silence, to the deadbeat dad who physically threatens his wife for money. Even the main character, Libby, isn't spared. She's the sole survivor of a massacre that killed her entire family when she was seven. The police arrested her brother per her eyewitness account, and here is the brave little survivor at thirty-one: \"Who is Fanny Adams?\" I snapped, realizing I was about to get jealous. I was supposed to be the special one here. \"She was an eight-year-old, got chopped to bits in England in 1867.\" [...] So she'd been dead forever. That was good. No competition She's vile, isn't she? Admit it; we all have a little Libby inside us. The mean streak that makes you wonder if you're truly selfless for helping an old lady across the street or simply doing it for the admiring stares of passersby. That's what makes these characters so relatable to me. They're selfish to the bone and not afraid to show it. Well, most of the time. \"What about new donations\u2014the twenty-fifth anniversary is coming up.\" I felt another splash of anger, for him making me say this aloud. Ben started his killing spree around 2 a.m. on January 3, 1985. The time stamp on my family's massacre, and here I was looking forward to it. Who said things like that? Why couldn't there have been even $5,000 left?\" The mystery of whodunnit is fantastic. Libby begins to suspect that her brother Ben may not have been the one to murder her family all those years ago and she embarks on a quest to find out the real culprit. And like I said, all the characters are so horrible, it could be any one of them. Any time I fixated on someone, I'd think, \"No, Gillian wouldn't make it that obvious. Wait, would she?\" Then my brain would short-circuit and I'd have to lie down for a while with a wet cloth on my head. Nah, not really. I stayed up until 1am to finish this baby, fighting through the fear that the murderer might be lurking in a dark corner of my room, and let me tell you: best decision I ever made. Sure, I had to attend an award ceremony the following morning bleary-eyed and cranky, but it was worth it. A word of advice to those planning to start Dark Places: don't begin the book at ten at night, and be sure to put your copy somewhere physically unreachable if you want to get any work done. Because you will not be able to put it down. ...more Other Reviewers mentioned they didn't like Libby! How can you NOT love Libby. She's emotionally troubled, selfish, lazy, angry and does not want to love anyone including herself. She is exactly how you would expect someone to be when your entire family is butchered while you are hiding and eventually running for your life. Flynn, I bow down to you for not making this character \"rise above\" her past and for writing a character so perfectly, that my heart literally felt like it was broken while I Other Reviewers mentioned they didn't like Libby! How can you NOT love Libby. She's emotionally troubled, selfish, lazy, angry and does not want to love anyone including herself. She is exactly how you would expect someone to be when your entire family is butchered while you are hiding and eventually running for your life. Flynn, I bow down to you for not making this character \"rise above\" her past and for writing a character so perfectly, that my heart literally felt like it was broken while I read the book. That is why I loved Libby, she is who she is, and she wasn't created to make book ratings or financial gains for the author. As for the story, oh my god, I was so frustrated because I couldn't figure out who did it. I was annoyed and I loved it. I forgot to mention the other characters in the book- you will love them even if you hate them. Again, this is what is so great about the author- her characters. The author is brilliant in her character development. Probably one of the best I've read. If you feel emotions like I did about these characters, that is good, it means the author did his/her job. If I could give an award \"Best Character Development by an Author\". Hands down- Gillian Flynn! ...more I randomly decided to listen to this because I wanted to watch the movie. It turned out to be a fascinating, yet disturbing mystery read. I couldn't stop listening, and came to care for these messed up characters. If you enjoy mysteries and thrillers, this is a must read. However, be warned, the content is pretty graphic. Meh. Well, unfortunately this wasn't the page turner Gone Girl was for me. The most interesting thing about this book in my opinion was Libby's character. Where Gone Girl started out slow and then got really good, this one started out amazing and then went flat. I do like that Gillian Flynn creates these screwed up characters and I found Libby to be somewhat entertaining. Ms. Flynn isn't known for writing likable characters to be inspired by, but Libby was interesting. Her emotional growth was k Meh. Well, unfortunately this wasn't the page turner Gone Girl was for me. The most interesting thing about this book in my opinion was Libby's character. Where Gone Girl started out slow and then got really good, this one started out amazing and then went flat. I do like that Gillian Flynn creates these screwed up characters and I found Libby to be somewhat entertaining. Ms. Flynn isn't known for writing likable characters to be inspired by, but Libby was interesting. Her emotional growth was kind of stunted because of an event in her childhood, and she just sort of drifts through life and survives, but doesn't really live. I can't really say anything about the story because it's a mystery and I don't want to spoil anything. I felt like a lot of this book was filler, so that the mystery could be drug out until the end. There were so many things that were unnecessarily overly described. At one point there was a whole page dedicated to describing fox tail weeds. This is why for some of this book I was bored out of my mind . While reading this, I seemed to spend a lot of time thinking about my Christmas to do list, or wondering what I should have for lunch. Overall, it was just Ok. I didn't hate it, but it didn't blow my mind either. ...more Gillian Flynn scares the shit out of me. Whilst this is nothing more than pure conjecture , it wouldn\u2019t surprise me to learn she was a serial killer in a former life, or that she stabs bunnies and kittens and hamsters and toy poodles during her spare time (for research purposes). Sure, she has her shit together, but she has an interesting way of sprinkling her love for Kansas across 368 ink-splattered pages. It begs the question: What would she do with a state like California and in a city like L Gillian Flynn scares the shit out of me. Whilst this is nothing more than pure conjecture , it wouldn\u2019t surprise me to learn she was a serial killer in a former life, or that she stabs bunnies and kittens and hamsters and toy poodles during her spare time (for research purposes). Sure, she has her shit together, but she has an interesting way of sprinkling her love for Kansas across 368 ink-splattered pages. It begs the question: What would she do with a state like California and in a city like LA? The LA tourism board probably has had many a sleepless night just mulling over what this superbly talented author could do. Future headline in the Los Angeles Times : Tourism down 31% in three weeks. And if I were Kemper , I\u2019d search for land elsewhere. I hear Antarctica isn\u2019t bad this time of year. If you need a recommendation, I\u2019ll put you in touch with Kate Upton. Seriously, though, DARK PLACES dropped me in a dank forest in the middle of the night, shaved my head, punched me in the gut, stabbed me in the throat, and then kicked me in the crotch, all within the first 250 pages or so. If you want to learn about man\u2019s inhumanity to man , I can\u2019t think of many authors that do it better. But if you don\u2019t want to be sucking applesauce through a straw, hooked up to a catheter, and have a nurse that resembles the Joker wield a scalpel near your jugular, you might want to point yourself in the direction of the latest Disney movie (probably not Maleficent ) and get yourself a handful of gummy bears. Libby and Ben Day had more than a few things to say, and quite possibly needed an intervention. While I probably would have enjoyed this more if I had even one character I could root for (even the mother made me shudder and cringe), that wouldn\u2019t be realistic in this particular world. Maybe I had to enter the right frame of mind to meander my way from beginning to end, but once I found purchase on this particular surface, I rushed toward the conclusion without any particular illusions. And then discovered I needed a shower and shave and a nightlight to help me make it until it dawn. Cross-posted at Robert's Reads ...more Disturbing /heartbreaking /Perfect/thriller/mystery/suspense novel i loved the twist i really didn't see that one coming, The main character, Libby was a damaged soul, 3 of her family members were killed by her brother Ben (that's what the author wants you to think :p) i didn't like Libby very much she's a slob lonely woman, she had a rough start in life but that's not an excuse for sitting around and waiting for people to support her financially, it was annoying but she had her reasons, her br Disturbing /heartbreaking /Perfect/thriller/mystery/suspense novel i loved the twist i really didn't see that one coming, The main character, Libby was a damaged soul, 3 of her family members were killed by her brother Ben (that's what the author wants you to think :p) i didn't like Libby very much she's a slob lonely woman, she had a rough start in life but that's not an excuse for sitting around and waiting for people to support her financially, it was annoying but she had her reasons, her brother \"Ben\" was a likeable character, i dont agree with his life choices but i understand. \u201cThe truly frightening flaw in humanity is our capacity for cruelty - we all have it.\u201d by the end of this book i cried like a baby while reading the letter from their mother broke my heart the movie is even better jesus ! Charlize theron did an amazing job this one is definitely on my re-reading shelf ...more I am a liar and a thief. Don't let me into your house, and if you do, don't leave me alone. I take things. You can catch me with your string of fine pearls clickering in my greedy little paws, and I'll tell you they reminded me of my mother's and I just had to touch them, just for a second, and I'm so sorry, I don't know what came over me. Libby Day's entire family was slaughtered, and she fingered her brother as the murderer. Locked up and far out of sight, Libby is 'living' her life... as muc I am a liar and a thief. Don't let me into your house, and if you do, don't leave me alone. I take things. You can catch me with your string of fine pearls clickering in my greedy little paws, and I'll tell you they reminded me of my mother's and I just had to touch them, just for a second, and I'm so sorry, I don't know what came over me. Libby Day's entire family was slaughtered, and she fingered her brother as the murderer. Locked up and far out of sight, Libby is 'living' her life... as much 'living' you can do when your father is a drugged up alcoholic, your brother a murderer and the people you love buried six feet under. It's called \"Dark Places\" and lives up to its name. It's dark, violent, gripping and, yes, even sick. There were some points in the book that had my stomach churning, and I had to put it down, take deep breaths and count to ten. This isn't just about Satan worshipping, sacrifices or drugs and sex, but also rape, paedophilia, and abuse. It's pretty much all the nasties you can find in the world, rolled onto paper. Do not read this if you can't handle the themes. It's dark and disturbing, and you won't find an inch of happiness in this book. Nothing about it is good : Libby's afflictions are disturbing, Ben's (her brother) side of the story is even MORE disturbing. From a scale of 0 to Fucked Up , Dark Places is \"Way Fucked Up\". So Libby's trying to live her life, except she's running out of money, and needs to do something about that, fast. \"What about new donations -- the twenty-fifth anniversary is coming up.\" I felt another splash of anger, for him making me say this aloud. Ben started his killing spree around 2 a.m. on January 3, 1985. The time stamp on my family's massacre, and here I was looking forward to it. Who said things like that? Why couldn't there have been even $5,000 left? Don't make any mistake: Libby is not a nice person. I struggled, at first, to like her because she's just so awful and cruel . But as you walk through her life, it becomes pretty hard to not see why she is the way she is. And then, out of the blue, someone offers her help. \"Well, you know how some guys do fantasy football, or collect baseball cards?\" I nodded. He let out a strange laugh and continued. \"Or women read gossip magazines and they know everything about some actor, know like, their baby's name and the town they grew up in?\" I gave a weary incline of the head, a be-careful nod. \"Well, this is like that, but it's, well, we call it a Kill Club.\" I took a slug of beer, sweat beads popping on my nose. \"It's not as weird as it sounds.\" \"It sounds pretty fucking weird.\" The Kill Club offers her money in exchange of investigation on her behalf. They believe Ben is innocent and, no matter how hard she insists he isn't, they want to show her exactly why she's wrong. The book is split in three point-of-views: Pat, Libby's mother, Ben, her brother, and Libby. You jump from past to present, slowly piecing together the story as Libby does. I'm not going to lie, Flynn is an absolute genius and whilst Gone Girl was just \"okay\" in my eyes, this one rocked my socks off. The story line is addicting, the characters are all wrapped up in secrets and lies, and when it hits the climax, you might as well have been smacked in the face with a shovel because, although I imagined it, I still struggled to see it coming. Definitely recommend! Also -- a movie is coming out in 2015! I'm so excited, I could die. Heh. Pre-Review Holy fucking shitballs, what an insane, twisted, unbelievable ride. I have not felt this strongly about a book since In the Woods and I have still not recovered from that. ASDFGHJKL. Semi coherent review to come. No promises. ...more 3.5 ok I expected this book gonna be good like gone girl and more but unfortunately was boring and sad all the time actually I don't like it . Buddy read with Vane. To read her review, please click here 4.5/5 Stars \u25b6 Welcome to Dark Places. We the characters invite you(with devious smiles and menacing thoughts) to explore our frightfully twisted and exceptionally perverted world, come as you are, dear. No need to worry. And if not all of us then This is my second book by Gillian Flynn. I just want to say: THAT WAS BLOODY BRILLIANT. SCARY BRILLIANT. And I absolutely loved and adored it. I feel like Flynn's stories are all about a search Buddy read with Vane. To read her review, please click here 4.5/5 Stars \u25b6 Welcome to Dark Places. We the characters invite you(with devious smiles and menacing thoughts) to explore our frightfully twisted and exceptionally perverted world, come as you are, dear. No need to worry. And if not all of us then This is my second book by Gillian Flynn. I just want to say: THAT WAS BLOODY BRILLIANT. SCARY BRILLIANT. And I absolutely loved and adored it. I feel like Flynn's stories are all about a search for the truth, setting monsters loose and letting them roam free and wild, letting them find the light. It's all about exploring humanity's restless and monstrously flawed side. It's unwholesome, gruesome and ugly. It's not for everyone. It's hardly possible to write a review of this without spoiling the book, and I just won't be the one to do that. So I guess this - whatever this is - will be quite sparing aaaand maybe selfish. My gift to you. \u25b6 BUT I CAN SHARE MY EXPERIENCE. HI FIVE IF YOU CAN RELATE. The journey begins.. You start out shakily. One. Two. Three more pages gone. You're shaky and calm. You're unhinged and ready. You already know you're going to the dark side. You knew that - but what the hell? What the hell are you reading? You ask. The characters, the story, the mystery. It's all too messed up. IT'S NIGHTMARISHLY MESSED UP. You hate them. These people who dare to be so blatantly despicable. This horrible tease of a story. You hate it. Book: Liar. Narrator: **shoots book a murderous glare and then continues** But you love how anxious you are. The story's building, the characters are morphing into...something confusing. Not as easy to hate, but impossible to love. They're convincing you, leading you deeper into the diseased, conflicting labyrinths underlining their world. POISON. Drink it. Drink it Now do you see? Can you guess it? Who's the who and what's the why? But no. Unraveling mysteries has never been your strong suit. Or any kind of suit really. You're at a loss when it doesn't involve Scooby doo, Shaggy and Scooby snacks. But then, a light bulb comes on. Just when you thought you'd figured it all out, you're so full of poisoned confidence. You had the answers, you had gotten through the worst of it. Wrong. You got book-slapped, and that was fine by you. You had anticipated it. In your proudest and most careless moment of counterfeit confidence, you thought You shouldn't have, because the book answered. Every single time. You do not dare Dark Places. Your torture is a continuous and mocking thing. But you can feel it. Any page now, you're going to turn that page and it's going to be there. Nirvana. Respite. A ghost of a reward for your steady endurance. You turn that page, and suddenly you become a living, breathing banged-up contradiction. Breathe. You're excited it's not over, and yet those words are murder - the ones bereft of answers. The story isn't done with you just yet. You've had enough. Or so you think. You're tired, it's carried on for far too long. Would you just tell me why and how already? You scream internally, drunk with impatience. One. Two. Three pages more of rigmarole and you make to dump it. You're in love but you're tired. This is a game, this isn't love. At least not healthy love. The book: Sit your pretentious ass back down and continue the story. The characters: **in a choral sing song voice** Listen to the book. You know you want to. You don't want to miss thisssss. TEMPTATION. BRIBERY. YOU'RE CORRUPT. YOU'RE THE FINEST MASOCHIST TODAY HAS SEEN. So you feign reluctance but carry on. And for the sake of feeding the already exhaustingly obese show, you declare Me: It wasn't a declaration. I simply stated a fact. Book: **snorts** And yet, here you are. Grow fat with your own lies. Narrator: Can you both just allow me to do what I'm being paid for? **responsive silence** Thank you. This next part is really boring, people. You might want to tune out. She reads. They banter. She reads. They banter. She loves. They banter. She reads... **Narrator yawns...** Narrator: And here we are! The big reveal. Book: **Stage whispers to narrator** Be grateful I didn't douse you with ice cold water. How dare you?! ** said with a face so grotesquely contorted in anger** Narrator: **Ignores book good-naturedly(as if) and carries on** So yes, We. Are. Here. The book is now giddy(quite a mood swing he's on). He's successfully and tastefully achieved the status of master torturer. You're giddy - and worn, but we'll overlook that. Your suffering has finally, finally come to an end. You can feel it. You're drunk with excited apprehension. That big blow - it's going to be a big one. One. Two. Three pages more - ME: **Screams horrifically** I FORGOT MY ARMOR. I'M NOT PREPARED FOR THIS. I DID NOT PREPARE FOR THIS. WAIT. NO!! Book: **escalates into a feral thing** **laughs erratically and starts dancing a crappy happy jig, bouncing from one foot to the other** Chanting: You're too late. You're too late. Closer. Me: **Frantically searching eyes for help** No. No. No. Narrator: **Shrugs** Don't look at me. No one paid me to worry. Book: **Chants more wildly** Narrator: WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU? If you're not ready, then stop reading! ME: **flips to next page entrancingly** I can't. **whispers** Save me. Book: Four. Five. Six pages to go... **resumes annoying chant** Narrator: You're all mad here. **says in wide-eyed disbelief** Closer. CloSER. AND CLOSER. ME: OH GOD. ...more 5 Stars!!!!! Despite being thrillers not my preferred genre, this is the second book that features murder and mayhem and a killer that I have read in past couple of days. An surprisingly, I am not at all missing the 'love' and obviously the 'sex' between the fictional characters. This could be mostly due to the fact that GF has an amazing, AMAZING talent for writing stories. It is extremely rare to find a book where you have great writing, fantastic characters and incredible story line. This boo 5 Stars!!!!! Despite being thrillers not my preferred genre, this is the second book that features murder and mayhem and a killer that I have read in past couple of days. An surprisingly, I am not at all missing the 'love' and obviously the 'sex' between the fictional characters. This could be mostly due to the fact that GF has an amazing, AMAZING talent for writing stories. It is extremely rare to find a book where you have great writing, fantastic characters and incredible story line. This book or rather the two books that I have read by this author have all the three. I never really say this, but Gillian Flynn has become my go to authors now. No matter what she writes next I am buying it and that too, in hardcover. Unlike the Sharp Objects, this story is told in multiple POVs and we see a constant but seamless back and forth between past and present. Libby is drifting through life after the brutal murders of her mother and two older sisters back when she was only seven. Because of her testimony and several other factors, Ben is in prison. Over the years, Libby's case has garnered much attention and she has even published a book about the murders. She has been relying upon people's donations to get her through life because really she is too lazy to work. Oh and she loves to snitch things, here and there. So when a group of people contact her about the murders and to free Ben, she is reluctant at first. Of course, she wouldn't help people who think Ben is innocent and she is the devil who put that amazing man away. But when they agree to pay her to help them solve this already solved murder, she jumps on the chance. Yes, she isn't exactly a very likable character but I loved this woman to pieces. Something about her wit and her flaws were very endearing. Now we have to figure out--- is Ben innocent and if he is, who killed their family and if someone else killed their family, why didn't Ben contest his sentence all those years ago and what exactly did Libby see on that night. With so many questions to figure out, I definitely had many theories. So by the end of it I kind of did know what was going to be the end but that did NOT spoil my fun. I still finished this in one day and I still was scared to sleep alone after finishing this. Again, I would say if you are a fan of dark and twisted then this book is the gem you have been looking for. Read this. And soon. It's sooo good! <3 ...more If I have learned one thing from this author, it's that she can write some psychotic characters. And that's what I love the most about her books. You never know who you should trust, every person you meet feels like a bomb that's about to explode in your face. Bring it ON!! While Flynn is best known for her more recent release, Gone Girl, and while that book is a serious messed up ride that I won't soon forget, I have to say that I think I enjoyed Dark Places just as much, if not a bit more than If I have learned one thing from this author, it's that she can write some psychotic characters. And that's what I love the most about her books. You never know who you should trust, every person you meet feels like a bomb that's about to explode in your face. Bring it ON!! While Flynn is best known for her more recent release, Gone Girl, and while that book is a serious messed up ride that I won't soon forget, I have to say that I think I enjoyed Dark Places just as much, if not a bit more than Gone Girl. This time we've got a family who was murdered a couple of decades ago, and the lone survivor - well, not counting the brother who's in jail for murdering them all - is now questioning what really happened that night. As with Gone Girl, this novel is written in a way that makes you completely addicted to the story from the very start. You will want to skip lunch, dinner, and shoo your kids to bed early to get back to it. Her writing is like a drug. Then the way she goes about telling us the story makes it unputdownable. We're treated to a past/present perspective where we go from learning who this family was before they were murdered - how they struggled and the rumors surrounding them - to digging up clues and trying solve this mind-f*ck of a mystery. It's with the help of the \"past\" perspectives that we get to meet Libby's family and their\u2026. intense personalities. I was mesmerized by how bizarre they all were, to be honest. I mean, we never get to see who they become, but those kids have issues and I wouldn't have been surprised if her sisters had both grown up to be mass murderers. Then we have the townspeople and secondary characters who all weirded me out, especially the debt collector who immediately gave me the creeps. The story focuses a lot on Ben, the brother who supposedly killed his family, his past being filled with secrets and psychotic girlfriends and devil-worshiping friends. Yeah O_O It's all very unsettling, though kinda fascinating to be honest. The mystery is the biggest part of this novel, and it's worked in with brilliance. With the alternating perspectives, you see how something seemingly innocent can blow up to be a game changer. How a tiny detail can easily be overlooked or deemed unimportant. I think I suspected every single person at one point, and my theories ran from the too-obvious to the too-wild. I was just about waiting for the whole book to explode in my hands. The reveal did surprise me, too, which has become so rare. To be fair I did guess certain aspects of it, but it was so very carefully crafted with tons of tiny bombs scattered all over that there is no way to figure it all out beforehand. Bravo, Flynn! This is the story of a family fallen into hardship, a family struggling to pay their bills, struggling to survive, until they didn't have to struggle no more. In short, this is the story of the most unluckiest family ever to live. If you were a fan of Gone Girl I have no doubt you'd enjoy this one too. If you've never read anything by this author, change this, stat! -- For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more", "Title": "Dark Places"},
