{"Comments": "<+++>An Echo in the Bone</+++>TOP TEN REASONS WHY THE OUTLANDER SERIES IS BETTER THAN THE TWILIGHT SERIES 10. Heroine is not complimented on how delicious her blood smells. Instead, she is told that her ass looks like two ripe melons.<---F> Just what every woman wants</---F>. 9. When the hero has to rescue the heroine, he doesn't merely have to run at lightning speed across the parking lot. He actually has to travel halfway across the world,<---M> kill a few dozen villains</---M>, and blow up a few buildings. 8. But that doesn't matter because just as o TOP TEN REASONS WHY THE OUTLANDER SERIES IS BETTER THAN THE TWILIGHT SERIES 10. Heroine is not complimented on how delicious her blood smells. Instead, she is told that her ass looks like two ripe melons. Just what every woman wants. 9. When the hero has to rescue the heroine, he doesn't merely have to run at lightning speed across the parking lot. He actually has to travel halfway across the world, kill a few dozen villains, and blow up a few buildings. 8. But that doesn't matter because just as often the heroine can rescue her own damn self. 7. Pirates are WAY better than vampires. 6. The creepy, obsessive dude is an actual villain and not the hero of the story. 5. The denouement involves actual danger, as opposed to what essentially amounts to a Rainbow Gathering gone awry. 4. The doctor doesn't come off as a pedophile. 3. Not one single Renesmee in the entire series. 2. Nobody is sparkly. 1. People actually have sex, and lots of it. ...more I am a devout DG/Outlander fan, so of course I read Echo in the Bone as fast as I could get my mitts on it...and it left me sorely disappointed! I actually skipped pages! She said that there were four story lines (<---B>hence the four points on the Caltrop on the cover</---B>) and I was excited at first. But when I got into the story, I got bored with the overlong passages about William and John's intrigues. Where were Jamie and Claire?? (And why the hell can't they manage a sea voyage without trouble??) I ac I am a devout DG/Outlander fan, so of course I read Echo in the Bone as fast as I could get my mitts on it...and it left me sorely disappointed! I actually skipped pages! She said that there were four story lines (hence the four points on the Caltrop on the cover) and I was excited at first. But when I got into the story, I got bored with the overlong passages about William and John's intrigues. Where were Jamie and Claire?? (And why the hell can't they manage a sea voyage without trouble??) I actually started to wish I could read about Brianna (one of my least favorite people...) I heard her say there was going to be another book after this one (the ongoing belief was that this book was going to be the last one) which is very apparent after this book that there has to be one more. But I feel like if she had cut half of the story out and finished the cliffhanging story lines, she could be done by now, and I could have peace of mind knowing the story is over! I mean I really don't appreciate being led on for 2/3 of a book and then have four different surprise endings. Some other smaller points: -felt choppy -dragged at points and then skipped over more interesting points -not enough Jamie and Claire!!! I'm going to read it again more slowly to see if my opinion changes, but first I need to let the dust settle on my disappointment. **EDIT** OK, So I've had some time to sit and ruminate on the experience of this book and why I couldn't pinpoint the niggling reason (like bothering a sore tooth with your tongue) why I was so disappointed. There were the shallow obvious reasons of course, like four surprise endings, but deeper still ran something vague and unnameable until now. See, as silly as it sounds, I became emotionally invested in the characters and stories of Jamie and Claire, and rightly so, a good book should make you care about its characters. Being a typical DG fangirl, I've read all the Outlander novels without much complaint, and re-read, and re-read, and re-read. I don't think I can do that with this book. I think there are about 100 pages I'd be willing to go through again. So yeah, I'm angry that I don't have another book to keep re-reading, as psycho as it sounds. I'm not really sure if I should be angry at <---A>Diana Gabaldon</---A>, her editor, her publisher, or anyone else who read this book before it went to press and didn't tell her she needed to get a pair of proverbial scissors. Of course I'll be getting the next and hopefully last book, but with a lesser amount of trust and a greater wariness. ...more The five stars are an expression of my Outlander fangirl enthusiasm, since I'm incapable of objectively judging the quality of these books. I'd probably have given five stars to anything that wasn't a huge disappointment. Which this wasn't, of course; I thought it was quite good. The first couple hundred pages are admittedly a little slow. We get a lot of POV from Lord John and 19-yr-old William, and there is some crossover from the LJ spin-off series, which I think may be confusing for people wh The five stars are an expression of my Outlander fangirl enthusiasm, since I'm incapable of objectively judging the quality of these books. I'd probably have given five stars to anything that wasn't a huge disappointment. Which this wasn't, of course; I thought it was quite good. The first couple hundred pages are admittedly a little slow. We get a lot of POV from Lord John and 19-yr-old William, and there is some crossover from the LJ spin-off series, which I think may be confusing for people who haven't read those books. I like John and William very much, but in this series I really want to read about Jamie and Claire and fortunately the book soon begins to focus more on them. The last hundred pages are riveting and really quite shocking. But after the earlier slow pacing they felt a little rushed, and the ending is abrupt. It was made worse because I didn't realize that there is an author's note at the end, so the story stopped suddenly when I thought there were still a few pages to go! If I weren't such a fangirl I would probably dock the book a star for concluding with multiple dramatic cliffhangers, which I in general dislike. I don't remember the other books in this series leaving us hanging in mid-scene! There are also some storylines left unresolved, so even at 800+ pages this felt like the first half of an extremely long novel. But *dreamy sigh* the book thrilled me anyway. Gabaldon claims to write in scenes, and when I re-read these books I do tend to skim some of the connecting narrative and focus on my favorite scenes, and there are plenty of new favorites in this one. Claire's medical work is as fascinating as always, particularly a long sequence which I had already read as an excerpt in The Outlandish Companion . ...more \u201dGod, your arse looks fine, wi\u2019 the wet linen of your shift clinging to it, it goes all transparent, and I can see the weight of your buttocks, like great smooth round melons ...\" I sort of wondered when I started this book if I was going into Outlander overload and that I might tire of it seeing as I have read 6 of the books in the space of 2 months or so. No, this book was wonderful, for the most part. I must admit there were some parts with Lord John and William that my eyes sort of glazed ov \u201dGod, your arse looks fine, wi\u2019 the wet linen of your shift clinging to it, it goes all transparent, and I can see the weight of your buttocks, like great smooth round melons ...\" I sort of wondered when I started this book if I was going into Outlander overload and that I might tire of it seeing as I have read 6 of the books in the space of 2 months or so. No, this book was wonderful, for the most part. I must admit there were some parts with Lord John and William that my eyes sort of glazed over and I lost interest a bit. Only so much I want to read about a boot and foot stuck in a boggy hole! \u201cThis is the thin time, when the beloved dead draw near. The world turns inward, and the chilling air grows thick with dreams and mystery.\u201d We meet the characters from the previous books. Of course, Jamie and Claire are still my favourites. Bloody \u201cautocorrect\u201d, I spell favourite with a fecking \u201cu\u201d!!! It got it eventually. Roger and Brianna - wonderful. I love them. Wee Jemmy, what a sweetie. \u201dHave ye ever in the slightest doubt that I need ye?\u201d, he demanded. \u201cNo, to the best of my knowledge, you needed me urgently the moment I saw you and I haven\u2019t had reason to think you\u2019ve got any more self-sufficient since.\" I have read some reviews that say the last part of the book is somewhat rushed and ended abruptly. I did not find that. It was a rushed in such a way that a LOT happens, my mind was spinning. Of course, its easy for me to say that as I can dive straight into Book 8. I would have died if I had to wait a year or so to find out what happens next. He would make her a new garden one day, God willing. There were pathways in the dark. I knew; I had seen people die. despite physical decay, there was no dying until the pathway was found. I couldn\u2019t - yet - find mine. Ian, love him too. We catch up with most of the characters. Fergus, Marsali. Jenny and Ian. Lallybroch. Rollo! I did shed a tear during one part of the book. \u201dI canna thank of ye dead, Claire. Anything else - but not that. I can\u2019t.\" ...more DG\u2019s still a PHENOMENAL writer, her talent has never been in question, but I do question her sanity after reading the last word of this hefty 814-page HC. These are just my random thoughts & somewhat-friendly reminders to myself as future reference, in case I need to refresh my poor memory. This is 1 helluva busy book, jammed w/ innumerable constantly-shifting plots & POVs but the resulting end wasn\u2019t a thrilling ride as the previous ones. I really hope to hell this was simply a failed e DG\u2019s still a PHENOMENAL writer, her talent has never been in question, but I do question her sanity after reading the last word of this hefty 814-page HC. These are just my random thoughts & somewhat-friendly reminders to myself as future reference, in case I need to refresh my poor memory. This is 1 helluva busy book, jammed w/ innumerable constantly-shifting plots & POVs but the resulting end wasn\u2019t a thrilling ride as the previous ones. I really hope to hell this was simply a failed experiment & that the next 1 will unfold more smoothly than this. I was left dazed & confused @ times in trying to follow the zig-zag tracks, or perhaps it was due to lack of sleep & long hours of OT hahahaa\u2026. I wish I\u2019d read this during my Dec staycation. I\u2019ve read 21 books in-between AEITB so it wasn\u2019t a v. good sign \u2018cuz I used to devour DG\u2019s books as if there\u2019s no tomorrow. I\u2019ll prolly not gonna reread =^2 > ~*~/*\\~*~ SPOILERS ~*~/*\\~*~ SPOILERS ~*~/*\\~*~ SPOILERS ~*~/*\\~*~ < WTF moments : -\tThe noticeable imbalance in pacing throughout the book. The stop-and-start, going-into-multiple-directions formula could only go so far. -\tClaire boinked Lord John after Jamie\u2019s death & the subsequent MOC. < Scratches wig > For real ? Why not just have her commit suicide as she tried to but didn\u2019t ? Or have Claire take a mental vacay from reality for as long as she believed Jamie was 6-FT under ? Good grief. What\u2019s the purpose of this plot device aka her momentary insanity ? Just to add more dwamatic flavor into the BOILING cauldron ? Jamie\u2019s not even cold in his grave yet. Ick. How could she even think, let alone do Lord John ? Is this a potentially awkward luv triangle since he has feelings for Jamie too ? What a tangled web. -\tWhat\u2019s up w/ Jamie\u2019s mild reaction when Lord John fessed up that he had carnal knowledge of Claire ? Oh wait, I forgot, this book only serves as a stepping stone for the next installment -\tWas DG sprinting to meet the deadline ? Was she watching Quentin Tarantino\u2019s Kill Bill Vol 1 & 2 when she wrote this epic saga ? As if we\u2019re not poor enough w/ the econ in the dumpster as it is. If I\u2019d forked over big bucks outta my own negative piggy bank, I\u2019d have demanded a half-refund. Good thing I used a library card, not a CC. -\tBuccleigh = Another TT victim. So the portals have become a revolving door now. Who\u2019s next ? -\tThe mystery of Roger\u2019s dad. As if we didn\u2019t have enough intrigue. Maybe he\u2019ll meet his da in another time, amidst his search for Jem ? -\tLi\u2019l Jem got kidnapped & took a train to \u201cdestination : unknown.\u201d Roger left Bree & Mandy behind, taking Buccleigh w/ him. Will they succeed ? Buck\u2019s supposed to die @ 38 y/o, his current age. Yikes. -\tDo we really need another lesson in human disease, anatomy & physiology ? Haven\u2019t I seen Claire stitch up Jamie before ? Ok so this time she\u2019s severing a full digit & trying to leave him w/ a working hand. I don\u2019t think my poor fragile heart can take any more abuse than this. How many more lives does Jamie have left ? Have mercy. -\tWhen Willie met Jamie. If that\u2019s all there is to it, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s worth waiting for. It\u2019s supposed to build up like a crescendo \u2018till the moment of truth hits him in the face. It got swallowed up by the impending troops. I expected a so much more electrifying reunion. -\tCan Lord John & Willie\u2019s storylines be any more boring ? Wish their tedious episodes coulda been condensed into merely 1 \u2013 2 chapters. Or @ least, keep them in separate sections instead of sneaking them in-between Jamie, Ian, Claire, Rog & Bree\u2019s perilous adventures. It\u2019s too crowded. If U wanna include \u2018em, @ least give us more substance to root for. My head\u2019s still spinning from the subplot overload. Wonder why my short-span attention drifted to other books. I thought I could recharge my interest but it didn\u2019t work =^B -\tI didn\u2019t care much for Rog & Bree\u2019s modern life in the 1980\u2019s either, hence the 2 stars I dinged on. Just get over it. Their kids were way more riveting & if it weren\u2019t for Mandy\u2019s acute sense of loss, Rog & Bree wouldn\u2019t have known Jem was missing. No wonder they say kids have a 6th sense. For a moment there I felt like in a twilight zone. -\tThe letters that Bree & Roger read, actually made my eyes kinda glaze over. They\u2019re small & in italics, plus my eyesight is failing, the letters made me drowsy. I was torn between skipping them & not wanting to miss anything pertaining to Jaime & Claire\u2019s adventures. -\tLotsa v. dull sea voyage scenes. Here I am, a fan of swashbuckling pirate romance, I wanted them to get off the ship & land somewhere. -\tThe diminishing # of Jamie-ism. @ my rapidly-advancing age, I need more to sustain me thru\u2019 the next 4 yrs. He still said the most luvly, aaawww-worthy lines to Claire but they\u2019re too far & few between =^D Fav (some gut-wrenching) moments : -\tClaire, like a loose cannon, gave Jamie a delish dressing-down after seeing his injury-decorated self. Almost had a cardiac arrest when the scavenger duo were gonna kill him. @$$-kicking heroine that she is, Claire got the biggest b@ll$ when it comes to protecting Jamie. -\tJamie\u2019s death-defying, gritty battle scenes. I prayed \u2013 and this is coming from an unbeliever \u2013 that Jamie would not get blown away to splinters like his comrades. In the scene where Claire found him later on, he bared his soul to her \u2018bout his motives & principles in joining the revolution. Fell in luv w/ him all over again, what an amazing guy. -\tIan\u2019s bloody slow death of consumption was heart-breaking. Luved that poignant scene where Jamie offered his severed finger to Ian. He\u2019ll always keep a part of Jamie w/ him to next life. Now that\u2019s what U\u2019d call a true BFF. -\tYoung Ian got to see his da & family. He spent quality time w/ da & revealed that he\u2019s in luv. Ian can go peacefully, knowing that his son got another shot @ HEA. -\tJenny & Claire butted heads again, as expected. Their volatile relationship might keep things interesting in the next 1. -\tJamie & Claire took matters in their own hands, literally. His sweaty, outraged reaction to Claire\u2019s request to \u201cluv thyself\u201d was comical =P Why didn\u2019t we get more lovey-dovey scenes ? The freakin-hawt chemistry was still alive & kicking. Instead, we\u2019re treated to various symptoms of fatigue, exhaustion, vomiting, thirst, starvation etc. Granted, it\u2019s wartime & they gotta conserve their energy, but the romance dept woulda benefited w/ more J & C\u2019s inspiring luv scenes. -\tJamie & Laoghaire\u2019s long-overdue explosive reunion. @ least they got to settle it once & for all. Laoghaire found happiness in an unlikely man, who needed her more than Jamie ever did. Li\u2019l Joanie was all grown-up now & made an overture to Jamie to pave her way to the convent. Claire had the upper hand when she made a bargain w/ Laoghaire, who needed her medical skills for Marsali\u2019s kid. 1 dilemma\u2019s solved. -\tYoung Ian had a secret son, fell head over heels in luv w/ a Quaker. It\u2019s kinda confusing reading Rachel & Denny Hunters\u2019 weird lingo. -\tDenny & Dottie, Ian & Rachel = I liked their sweet 2ndary romance. -\tIan\u2019s devotion to his mutt, Rollo. I\u2019m a sucka for heroes who adore dogs. Ian has become my 2nd fav character in the ginormous clan. He felt so anguished over the accidental killing of Arch Bug\u2019s wife. @ last he showed fine mettle, esp when Jamie\u2019s being blackmailed by a scumbag & also in the final confrontation to save Rachel. I wouldn\u2019t mind seeing more of their conflicts in the next installment. It\u2019ll be fascinating to see the adjustments on both ends. -\tJamie saw Simon, his 2nd cousin, from the opposing end. Didn\u2019t wanna kill his kinsman but ended up almost shooting his own son Willie in the head. Jamie met his other cousin, Hamish, it\u2019s a small world indeed. I wonder how many more cousins Jamie\u2019ll encounter. -\tLiked Fergus & his mysterious lineage plot. I wouldn\u2019t have minded @ all if DG had included more of his scenes w/ Jamie than the dull Lord John & Willie\u2019s encounters. -\tTom Christie returned, much to Claire\u2019s discomfort \u2018cuz he still carried a flaming torch for her. -\tDG\u2019s wonderful dialogues. Just can\u2019t get enuff of \u2018em. If her editor hadn\u2019t fallen asleep, methinks the book coulda been more condensed into 500 pages. Get rid of the yawn-inducing segments like LJ & Willie, they should be relegated to the farthest corner of the storyboard. Same w/ Rog & Bree, they should be placed in the back burner, tho\u2019 I still wanna know whatever happened to li\u2019l Jem & how Cameron will succeed in making Bree show him the much-coveted treasure, I\u2019m more keen on reading J & C, plus young Ian & Rachel. I want more crunchy moments between Jamie & Willie, as everyone w/ eyes can see their striking resemblance. I still luved her characters\u2019 dynamics but I preferred a tighter pacing & more resolutions to dangling threads than just the daily occurrences. 4 years is helluva long time to wait. ...more So I love Diana Gabaldon. I wish she would write faster than one new book every four years in the Outlander series, but whatcha gonna do. So Of course I've been waiting with bated breath for this one. Writing: still draws you into the characters' lives. They are so human, so loving, so flawed yet continuously striving. Characters: this book has four main plots (yes, four). We get Jamie and Claire, but we also get Ian (who I like to read about), Roger and Brianna (who I found annoying earlier in t So I love Diana Gabaldon. I wish she would write faster than one new book every four years in the Outlander series, but whatcha gonna do. So Of course I've been waiting with bated breath for this one. Writing: still draws you into the characters' lives. They are so human, so loving, so flawed yet continuously striving. Characters: this book has four main plots (yes, four). We get Jamie and Claire, but we also get Ian (who I like to read about), Roger and Brianna (who I found annoying earlier in the series but now really am enjoying), and William and Lord John. That last plot thread really plods. I don't get the sense of empathy with these two characters that I can get with the others. There's lots of plotting and intrigue that really doesn't amount to much. I think the author is a frustrated mystery writer, but the mystery parts of her books don't do nearly as much for me as the time travel, romances, adventure, history, and humor. Plot: I don't know if I can forgive her for this. She wrote a great book and then failed to end it. Three of the four plots threads end with characters in terrible danger or a major unresolved issue. Why would she do this? In a book that's 800 pages long, it's not like she worries much about editing. Couldn't she write another 50 to 100 pages and get them out of those messes? The cliffhangers are ridiculous when we will probably have to wait another 4 years to see them resolved. No matter how much tension she generates, four years will make it die down. I can't write in any dignified way how upset I am by this- it's cheap, a cheat, and unfair to her faithful readers. ...more First Sentence: The pirate's head had disappeared. In this 7th book to the Outlander series, Jamie, Claire and Ian are leaving the Ridge headed for Scotland to take Ian back to his family and bring Jamie's printing press back to the Colonies. Roger and Brianna have returned to the present and have settled at Lallybroch, but they've not completely left the past behind. William is anxious to prove himself in battle and Lord John is dealing with his family, both in England and in Pennsylvania. I was First Sentence: The pirate's head had disappeared. In this 7th book to the Outlander series, Jamie, Claire and Ian are leaving the Ridge headed for Scotland to take Ian back to his family and bring Jamie's printing press back to the Colonies. Roger and Brianna have returned to the present and have settled at Lallybroch, but they've not completely left the past behind. William is anxious to prove himself in battle and Lord John is dealing with his family, both in England and in Pennsylvania. I was both delighted and disgusted with this book. Either way, it is clear Ms. Gabaldon (1) rushed the ending and (2) does not have a continuity editor. The story was so rife with coincidence as to almost be humorous. There were so many characters with significant stories it diluted each of the stories. However, there were also historical characters whose presence may have added a veracity to the period but added little to the story. Jamie and Claire are the focal point of the series. You'd never know that from this book where we jump between Jamie and Claire, Roger and Brianna, Lord John, William, and Denny and Rachael Hunter. The continual jumps in time and focus felt more as though it was bad episodic television than reading what should have been a wonderfully engrossing novel. In addition, there were inaccuracies and terrible inconsistencies that should have been caught. What makes it difficult is that, in essence I did like the book. There were scenes which touched my heart and even brought tears to my eyes. Gabaldon is very good at tugging the heartstrings. There were scenes of suspense and humor. However, there were also scenes where critically important information was being conveyed among the characters, but the reader was exited from the scene. All the scenes were so scattered throughout the story, it caused the pacing to be very uneven. ...and the ending; I am loathe to even mention the ending. To say it felt rushed would be kind. To say there were more story threads left dangling than a cat playing in a yarn basket would be an understatement. To say it was frustrating and extremely disappointing does not strongly enough express my feelings toward the ending. Were Ms. Gabaldon a poor writer, I could dismiss all this and walk away, but she is not. I have absolutely loved all the previous books in this series; yes, even Fiery Cross. She has created characters about whom I care and have taken to my hearts. She has created a story in which I am invested both in time--both in reading time alone and in the number of years this series has been part of my life--and in money--I own the books in hardcover, trade paperback and the audio books. Ms. Gabaldon is, apparently, going to fix some of the mistakes found in the hardcover edition of this book prior to the trade paperback edition being released. That's all well and good, but it still leaves those of us with the hardcover edition, particularly where I bought 6 signed copies at full price, with error-laden books. I should have much preferred the errors be caught and corrected in the first place. I shall continue with the series as these characters are now part of my life and I really want to know where the story goes. However, I do feel Ms. Gabaldon has a responsibility, both to herself and to her very faithful legion of fans, to spend more time and do a better job on Book 8. ...more I am an Outlander series fan. Yes I am. I love Jamie (to an embarrasing extent), Claire and the whole cast of random modern and 18th C. characters that fill the many, many pages of Gabaldon's books. While not fine literature, I can always count on her great storytelling to completely draw me into her world over and over again (to the detriment of my normal life, and my husband's chagrin). That said, while I did enjoy this book there were a number of things about the writing that bothered me: 1. Th I am an Outlander series fan. Yes I am. I love Jamie (to an embarrasing extent), Claire and the whole cast of random modern and 18th C. characters that fill the many, many pages of Gabaldon's books. While not fine literature, I can always count on her great storytelling to completely draw me into her world over and over again (to the detriment of my normal life, and my husband's chagrin). That said, while I did enjoy this book there were a number of things about the writing that bothered me: 1. The author has another series of books based on a minor character from this series. This is the first time in the Outlander series that I felt lost because I hadn't read the Lord John series. Annoying. 2. Because so much time was spent developing this secondary story line, the main characters get the shaft. More than annoying. There were a few other things that annoyed me (too much war/battle details - yawn, THE ENDING WAS CRAZY) but that I think will bother me less upon a second reading. Yes, I read these books multiple times. Did I mention that I love Jamie? ...more After several thousand pages of build-up, the Revolutionary War is finally here \u2014 and with it, the excitement of the early Outlander novels returns. No offense to the residents of Fraser's Ridge, but it's a lot more fun to see Jamie and Claire interacting with Benedict Arnold than Hiram Crombie. They may be older and wiser than they were back in the Dragonfly in Amber and Voyager days, but this book has more in common with those two novels than it does with the last few that preceded it. I can't After several thousand pages of build-up, the Revolutionary War is finally here \u2014 and with it, the excitement of the early Outlander novels returns. No offense to the residents of Fraser's Ridge, but it's a lot more fun to see Jamie and Claire interacting with Benedict Arnold than Hiram Crombie. They may be older and wiser than they were back in the Dragonfly in Amber and Voyager days, but this book has more in common with those two novels than it does with the last few that preceded it. I can't help but feel that the Frasers are back in their element; a life of quiet domesticity may just not be their thing. What else can I say about Echo ? Several characters and storylines from the early books (and even the Lord John series) return, but several new, very likeable characters are introduced as well. There were enough twists, turns, and mysteries to keep me glued to the pages... and I hope it won't take forever for the next Outlander book to come out because quite a few surprises happen late in this one and don't get resolved before the end. ...more Diana Gabaldon needs to finish this series. In fact, she needed to finish it in this book: If she is so crazy about Lord John, keep writing those books about him. Personally, he bores me, and I skipped over those sections. I'm not that into William either, even if he IS Jamie's son. How many times can Claire and Jamie run into pirates and take over a ship? She's done this before in Voyager . And there's lots of other material that repeats or echoes stuff in previous, better books. There are too many Diana Gabaldon needs to finish this series. In fact, she needed to finish it in this book: If she is so crazy about Lord John, keep writing those books about him. Personally, he bores me, and I skipped over those sections. I'm not that into William either, even if he IS Jamie's son. How many times can Claire and Jamie run into pirates and take over a ship? She's done this before in Voyager . And there's lots of other material that repeats or echoes stuff in previous, better books. There are too many points of view and too much skipping from place to place. If you're not interested enough in your characters to stay on them for more than a chapter or so, why bother? And last, but not least, virtually EVERYONE is left in a cliffhanger situation. Nothing is anywhere near being resolved--it just ends! This whole book could have been cut down by about 3/4, added to whatever she is planning for a (hopefully) final book, and published when she is ready to publish that one. But she yielded--to her publishers, her agent, her fans, whoever and as a result we have this mess of a book. Sad, really. ...more I find myself now thankful that there's only one book left in this series. While I don't regret the time spent on Echo and will certainly read the Outlander conclusion when it's available in 4? years, I'm ready to let this series go. Historical detail was as always fascinating and the characters are still for the most part engaging and moving, but this volume interweaved way too many story lines and ended up feeling disjointed. Add in a few plot \"twists\" which are starting to feel cliched and ove I find myself now thankful that there's only one book left in this series. While I don't regret the time spent on Echo and will certainly read the Outlander conclusion when it's available in 4? years, I'm ready to let this series go. Historical detail was as always fascinating and the characters are still for the most part engaging and moving, but this volume interweaved way too many story lines and ended up feeling disjointed. Add in a few plot \"twists\" which are starting to feel cliched and overused (more kidnapping! more time travelers!) and it just feels like it's past time to move on. ...more 4.5 \u2605's There's really no way to do a review without spoilers so I'm just going to write down some thoughts. Wow...I really can't believe I'm finally at this point - being all caught up with the Outlander books. I've always heard how everyone loves them but the sheer size of them is just scary! However, they are definitely an adventure not to be missed. I decided to let myself kick back and enjoy them and enjoy them I did. What a treat! I loved getting to know all these characters...loving some of 4.5 \u2605's There's really no way to do a review without spoilers so I'm just going to write down some thoughts. Wow...I really can't believe I'm finally at this point - being all caught up with the Outlander books. I've always heard how everyone loves them but the sheer size of them is just scary! However, they are definitely an adventure not to be missed. I decided to let myself kick back and enjoy them and enjoy them I did. What a treat! I loved getting to know all these characters...loving some of them, hating the others and some I was seriously surprised at how much I came to like. Diana Gabaldon doesn't do anything half way and I guess that explains why the books are taking so long to write now. I'm thankful that I don't have to wait four years for the next one but I'll be with you guys for the ones after that. I think that's the main problem with her books. Everything is in such detail and it makes you feel like you are literally there. Whenever she writes about lice, I swear I'm itchy for days! I'm not a big fan of wars and tales about the Indians and medical procedures but I do have to say that it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. In fact, I've probably learned a few things here and there. The bad part is that there is no way to remember everything that has happened! I feel for the most part that she does a good job catching you back up because I'm not sure I could read these all again...not for a while! Sooo...some thoughts on the book: I LOVE Jamie and Claire and I can't imagine that ever changing. Their love story is truly the heart of the book and I don't ever want to think of that ending! Some parts of this book made me hesitate though and one part at the end that was left unresolved has me worried! Roger, Brianne, Jem and Amanda hold a special place for me as well. I love hearing about the 'connection' between Jem and Mandy but I can't believe what happened!! At that point, I was thankful for William MacKenzie but I'm still worried about Roger. I really enjoyed getting to know Willie better. All the hits and misses were great but the ending was crazy and my mind is going a million different directions on what DG will come up with. I loved everything about Ian even though Arch Bug gave it a whole creepy factor. I'm so happy about Rachel...I really hope we get some happiness there. And of course, Rollo helped save the day! It was great when Jamie and Claire went back to Lallybroch. I was hoping things would settle better between Claire and Jenny and they still might. Things were really sad about Ian (Sr.) but I thought the part with Jamie's finger was really touching. I didn't like anything about Laoghaire but I was glad that things seemed to work out for everyone. There are sooo many other characters that it would take forever to touch on everyone and every event. There are a lot of touching and sweet moments that I really enjoyed such as Jamie and Claire getting glasses! I thought that was great! And don't even get me started on Tom Christie! I had read the blurb for the next book so thankfully I wasn't terribly upset when certain events happened. I'm just glad that the things I thought were spoilers were addressed in this book...that would have been terrible to be left hanging from those events! Can Fall 2013 get here any faster? Favorite quotes: \u2665 \"I canna think of yea dead, Claire. Anything else--but not that. I can't.\" \u2665 \u201cBut ye couldna weep for the bairns. Or the house. Or your wee garden. Or the poor dead lass and her bairn. But if ye weep for your cheetie, ye know ye can stop.\u201d \u201cHow do you know that?\u201d My voice was thick, but the band round my chest was not quite so tight. He made a small, rueful sound. \u201cBecause I canna weep for those things, either, Sassenach. And I havena got a cat.\u201d \u2665 \u201cThen I grew older still, and discovered that, after all, it was true. I am the son of a great man.\u201d The hook touched Jamie\u2019s hand, hard and capable. \u201cI wish for nothing more.\u201d ...more And this is it for me and the Outlander series. There is a section in the Outlandish Companion where Diana talks about authors who do so much research and then make their readers \"pay\" for it. Meaning, if the author read about it, she's going to put it in the book, regardless of how much it contributes to the actual story. I think that Diana is now doing the same. I've been a loyal fan of hers since I first read Outlander, but I'm done. I can't deal with an endless series where just because she's And this is it for me and the Outlander series. There is a section in the Outlandish Companion where Diana talks about authors who do so much research and then make their readers \"pay\" for it. Meaning, if the author read about it, she's going to put it in the book, regardless of how much it contributes to the actual story. I think that Diana is now doing the same. I've been a loyal fan of hers since I first read Outlander, but I'm done. I can't deal with an endless series where just because she's now researching the whole damn War of Independence we need to find out about what a soldier's buttons say or whatever the next cute bit of minutiae she stumbled upon. I don't feel like \"paying\" for it anymore. I didn't even buy this book because I was so wary of how it would turn out, and it was pretty much as I'd dreaded. Chapter upon chapter filled with hundreds of characters I don't even care about. I don't think I'll even request the future books from the library. Yes, books, because honestly, this whole scam of \"oh, just one more book\" has worn me out. First it was a trilogy; then it was six books, three for the Uprising and three for the New World; oh wait, it was eight books - oh, Diana just keeps finding more stuff to string us along. I've already abandoned one series where I got tired of the author writing for herself - the Anita Blake series - and now I'm sad that I'm done with the Outlander series. If I'm still alive when the last book in the series comes out, I'll go to Borders and see how it ended, but I won't pay with my money or my time any more. ...more Update January 2014: Finished the audiobook, completing my mammoth challenge of listening to all the Outlander books (which took most of 2013). This has really helped me keep track of the characters and thus enjoy the story more, and I've warmed a bit to Brianna (still wouldn't want to live with her) and definitely to Roger, whom I now rather like and feel sorry for because he's living with Brianna. Davina Porter continues to be an excellent narrator, although why she's given Percy such a stagey Update January 2014: Finished the audiobook, completing my mammoth challenge of listening to all the Outlander books (which took most of 2013). This has really helped me keep track of the characters and thus enjoy the story more, and I've warmed a bit to Brianna (still wouldn't want to live with her) and definitely to Roger, whom I now rather like and feel sorry for because he's living with Brianna. Davina Porter continues to be an excellent narrator, although why she's given Percy such a stagey French accent beats me. Yes, I know he's pretending to be French but--but--but-- Oh whatever, I will be looking out for the audiobook of Written In My Own Heart's Blood, the next installment. Original review: An Echo In The Bone is, I believe, the 7th book in the long-running Outlander series. On the whole, I've enjoyed Gabaldon's mix of historical novel and sci-fi, even if some of the plotlines have appealed far less than others. I suppose that's not surprising, really, given that we must have had at least 4,000 pages of Jamie and Claire so far, and no novelist can be expected to keep you 100% spellbound over such a long stretch. Gabaldon tries, though: larger-than-life characters (who are improbably attracted to one another, even when unwashed and bleeding, as frequently happens, and have impressively good sex amidst the direst of circumstances); oodles of historical detail; plenty of accents, wee bits o'Gaelic (and sometimes Mohawk) to vary the dialog, and a somewhat predictable OH NO SOMETHING TERRIBLE'S HAPPENED TO JAMIE PHEW HE'S OK OH NO SOMETHING TERRIBLE'S HAPPENED TO CLAIRE... structure that reminds me of a Penelope Pitstop cartoon (and I think it's meant to: Gabaldon writes with her tongue firmly in her cheek.) (view spoiler) [In this book we FINALLY move out of the Carolinas (which was a very static location, IMHO) and into the American Revolution, and Lots of Things Happen. Including a shipwreck, a swamp, some battles, a couple of amputations, encounters with Native Americans, and Benedict Arnold. All in a day's work for Jamie, Claire and their hardy extended family. Meanwhile, on the other side of the time divide, Brianna & Co.'s life promises for about five minutes to be almost mundane, until actual and would-be time travelers start turning up. I like the connecting device of the letters, which kept the 1980 episodes from becoming boring until they were made considerably more interesting by the Tunnel Incident. Brianna and Roger both annoy the heck out of me, but I can't quite put my finger on why. (hide spoiler) ] I enjoyed this book more than some of the others, and relished some of the funnier aspects of the ending. Gabaldon leaves lots of loose ends dangling for the next book to solve, and I am quite looking forward to the next instalment. Where will it all end, I wonder? Claire and Jamie must be in their sixties by now - will they ever slow down? Will they form a m\u00e9nage \u00e0 trois with Lord John? Is Rob a time traveler or just a git? If you haven't read the Outlander series , I'd recommend starting at the beginning rather than here. See you in about 4,000 pages. I usually start going around talking wi' a Scotch accent after about 200, so be warned. I'll give it two sporrans up for entertainment value. ...more I read the first six all in a row, and then waited several months for the seventh to come out. So it's no real surprise that it took me a while to get into this one, and that I didn't remember all of the characters referenced throughout. But I will say that I got the impression Gabaldon was writing this book with more than her Outlander readers in mind; the focus on Lord John and his espionage career smacked of crossover. Which I didn't really love, but I can respect her making a play to get mor I read the first six all in a row, and then waited several months for the seventh to come out. So it's no real surprise that it took me a while to get into this one, and that I didn't remember all of the characters referenced throughout. But I will say that I got the impression Gabaldon was writing this book with more than her Outlander readers in mind; the focus on Lord John and his espionage career smacked of crossover. Which I didn't really love, but I can respect her making a play to get more readers for those books. The book is choppier than some of her previous ones, and I believe that if I read it again I'll skip all of the Bree and Roger bits to get to more Claire and Jamie (like how you skip all of the Frodo and Sam scenes in The Two Towers), at least for the first half of the book. But by the end I really only wanted to know what would happen to Ian, and to a lesser extent William. Also she seems to be getting a bit far afield with the allusions to Roger Mac's dad disappearing in time and then Buccleigh showing up in the 20th century. At a certain point time travel loses its mystique when you've got every single character doing it at some point in the series! I will definitely be happy when the final book comes out, and I liked this one, but it didn't have the emotional immediacy for me that the earlier books in the series did. ...more HOKAY SO. I have now made it through seven books of this series, which is basically like twenty-one normal-sized books, or fourteen above average-sized ones. All this to say I HAVE DONE HARD WORK NOW GIVE ME TACOS. I was going to type \"cookies\", but dammit I really want some tacos right now. Also, on the last Jane the Virgin episode, I was introduced to the concept of the Venezuelan miracle food, the arepa , and I am now obsessed with trying one, except there's only one Venezuelan eatery in my ci HOKAY SO. I have now made it through seven books of this series, which is basically like twenty-one normal-sized books, or fourteen above average-sized ones. All this to say I HAVE DONE HARD WORK NOW GIVE ME TACOS. I was going to type \"cookies\", but dammit I really want some tacos right now. Also, on the last Jane the Virgin episode, I was introduced to the concept of the Venezuelan miracle food, the arepa , and I am now obsessed with trying one, except there's only one Venezuelan eatery in my city, and it's a food truck and FOOD TRUCKS MOVE YOU GUYS. This will be my project for 2017. Tracking down an arepa and eating it so hard. Quite possibly trying all the arepas they have. Unless I hate arepas and then I will stop after one. (This is not likely.) So this book was good! It still took me about two months to read, but that's because I read the first 300-ish pages and then put it down for two months because I got distracted by shiny things like a damn raccoon. I finished the last 800 pages in about three days when I finally picked it back up. We still haven't reached the level of interest and engagement I had when reading books 1-3, but this was at least Drums of Autumn -level engagement. I think I just have to come to terms with the fact that DG will never again write a book with as much narrative tension as she did with Voyager (still my favorite of the series so far). There's still some bloat here, which accounts for why I was able to put it down for so long without feeling a real need to pick it back up again. I appreciate that she wants Jamie's illegitimate son William to be a more fleshed out character, but what he gets up to in this book isn't really super engaging. His most interesting moments come when he's interacting with characters we already know and love (Bree, Ian, Lord John). The first third of this was somewhat interesting, but really a lot of it could have been cut out, especially since I thought the last hundred pages (full of some really important happenings) was rushed. I would have liked more lingering on some of that stuff, which was really emotional. The stage is set for an interesting eighth book, though, and my interest in this series has definitely been re-engaged. I'd been told this would happen if I could just get through books five and six, but it's a relief to have it confirmed. I like liking this series. I don't like thinking it's a slog. So yes, people, if you're reading this and wondering if there is a light at the end of the tunnel that is Outlander, I will say to you, yes. Keep going! Not sure when I'll get to the next one. I'm tempted to save it for closer to either the release of season three of the show or closer to the release date of the ninth book. Guess we'll see! (I realize this review was a third about arepas and tacos, and I don't care. PUT THEM IN MY MOUTH.) ...more No s\u00e9 muy bien c\u00f3mo valorar un libro tan excesivamente largo, y donde ocurre de todo. En mi reader superaba las 1700 p\u00e1ginas, y creo que bienmente puedo decir que le sobraban 500, aquellos interminables cap\u00edtulos de Lord John y William, que se me han hecho sopor\u00edferos. \u00c9ste libro empieza donde acab\u00f3 \"Viento y Ceniza\". La casa grande del Cerro Fraser se quem\u00f3, y Jamie y Claire emprenden el viaje para ir a Escocia a buscar la prensa de Jamie. Pero el viaje estar\u00e1, \u00bfC\u00f3mo no? Plagado de peligros, ret No s\u00e9 muy bien c\u00f3mo valorar un libro tan excesivamente largo, y donde ocurre de todo. En mi reader superaba las 1700 p\u00e1ginas, y creo que bienmente puedo decir que le sobraban 500, aquellos interminables cap\u00edtulos de Lord John y William, que se me han hecho sopor\u00edferos. \u00c9ste libro empieza donde acab\u00f3 \"Viento y Ceniza\". La casa grande del Cerro Fraser se quem\u00f3, y Jamie y Claire emprenden el viaje para ir a Escocia a buscar la prensa de Jamie. Pero el viaje estar\u00e1, \u00bfC\u00f3mo no? Plagado de peligros, retrasos. Con una Am\u00e9rica envuelta en la Guerra de la Independencia, y de la que nuestros protagonistas se ver\u00e1n envueltos sin querer en ella. Por otro lado, los cap\u00edtulos de Bree y Roger, de vuelta en el futuro, tendr\u00e1n algunas de las escenas m\u00e1s tiernas, con las cartas que sus padres les dejaron. A ellos tambi\u00e9n les envolver\u00e1n una serie de problemas, la aparici\u00f3n de un personaje que no esperabas, y cierto giro al final de su trama, que te dejar\u00e1 esperando con ansias el siguiente libro. En cuanto al resto de personajes, como digo, los cap\u00edtulos de Lord John y William un rollo, no avanzas mucho en ellos salvo al final de la trama, en que todo se complica. Sobre Fergus habr\u00e1 una sorpresa inesperada, que yo sigo diciendo que no hac\u00eda falta. Ian soportar\u00e1 el peso de la culpa de una muerte en la que fue el causante, y que le impedir\u00e1 alcanzar la felicidad junto a una persona que ha encontrado. Y bueno, poco m\u00e1s. Aunque reconozco que las 100 \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas me han resultado sumamente confusas, como si Diana quisiera terminar el libro porque venc\u00eda la entrega, pasan ciertas cosas que te hacen ver que \u00e9sta mujer tiene una mente muy enferma, y ciertas actitudes que no van con los personajes que conoces. Todo ello aderezado adem\u00e1s con un final demasiado abierto. Admito que esto \u00faltimo no me ha gustado, y habr\u00e1 de pasar un tiempo considerable para que lea el octavo libro, porque me da much\u00edsima pereza leer libros tan largos. ...more I was disappointed and miss the old Jamie and Claire! Sorry, Diana, but the characters are tired, there are many new characters I found hard to keep track of, and the few that reappeared seem to come back suddenly then leave just as quickly, all so that loose end could be tied up. I found myself asking: \"Who is ___ again? \" upon the first chapter and I totally skimmed through any of Lord Grey's appearances. I didn't like his standalone books and felt she was trying to insert him into the \"Outlan I was disappointed and miss the old Jamie and Claire! Sorry, Diana, but the characters are tired, there are many new characters I found hard to keep track of, and the few that reappeared seem to come back suddenly then leave just as quickly, all so that loose end could be tied up. I found myself asking: \"Who is ___ again? \" upon the first chapter and I totally skimmed through any of Lord Grey's appearances. I didn't like his standalone books and felt she was trying to insert him into the \"Outlander\" series as a major character. The only parts I read word for word were Brianna and Roger and most of the last 1/4 of the book b/c I was told, \"Read the last 100 pages.\" The action picked up quite a bit during the last 1/4 but then stopped suddenly like I hit a wall. There are many loose ends that are tied up but just as many that are left untied. I found contridictions in characters and some of the decisions they made ( *SPOILER* --------------------like the reason Claire went back to the US; why would Claire sleep with someone so soon after she thought Jamie was dead) weren't true to their character. Most likely, I will not read the next book and hope to find someone who can just sum it up for me. ...more Sept. 30, 2009, after my first read: I'm still chewing on this. Not quite sure what to rate it yet. I loved the majority of the book, but I just finished today, and the ending has left me disgruntled. It feels like I have a bad copy that someone snatched the last 100 pages out of. April 4, 2014, after my reread in preparation for the next book's release: I just finished a reread of this (on audiobook, read by the fabulous Davina Porter), and I don't know if it's because my I already knew the terr Sept. 30, 2009, after my first read: I'm still chewing on this. Not quite sure what to rate it yet. I loved the majority of the book, but I just finished today, and the ending has left me disgruntled. It feels like I have a bad copy that someone snatched the last 100 pages out of. April 4, 2014, after my reread in preparation for the next book's release: I just finished a reread of this (on audiobook, read by the fabulous Davina Porter), and I don't know if it's because my I already knew the terriblehorriblenogoodverybad cliffhangers were coming or if I'm more at peace with the missing pages because I know I'll be reading the next book in a matter of weeks now (because that sounds better than months), but this reread was definitely less painful and much more enjoyable. In fact, I changed my original rating of 4 stars to 5 stars. That's not to say I didn't exclaim, \"Fucking book!\" when it ended. At least I didn't throw it this time, right? Soon, friends. We'll have answers soon. ...more Echo picks up where A Breath of Snow and Ashes left off as Claire and <---C>Jamie Fraser</---C> and Jamie's nephew Ian leave life at Fraser's Ridge behind them, head for Scotland to pick up Jamie's printing press and return to America. Of course this _is_ Jamie and Claire we're talking about so there is no smooth sailing and the *road* to Scotland is mired with many side-trips and detours as well. Roger and Bree have returned to the present and settled into life at Lallybroch, although they're also in for a Echo picks up where A Breath of Snow and Ashes left off as Claire and Jamie Fraser and Jamie's nephew Ian leave life at Fraser's Ridge behind them, head for Scotland to pick up Jamie's printing press and return to America. Of course this _is_ Jamie and Claire we're talking about so there is no smooth sailing and the *road* to Scotland is mired with many side-trips and detours as well. Roger and Bree have returned to the present and settled into life at Lallybroch, although they're also in for a few twists and turns and bumps in the night as well. William is now an adult and an officer in the British army and we see quite a bit more of him - will he and Jamie ever meet face to face? Who is the mysterious man searching for Fergus and what secrets might he reveal about his birth parents? You'll find new friends among the old from the previous books (and a couple of very surprising returns), although IMHO there are waaaaay too many new friends as well as waaaay too much of Lord John and characters from his books. I'm not that fond of Lord John as a major character and that's why I didn't read the books to begin with and consider it dirty pool to muck up Jamie and Claire's story with Lord John\u2019s, particularly that little plot twist at the end. Eww ewww ewww ewww ewww. Diana, how could you? In the end, I'm wondering if I've changed as a reader, or has Gabaldon changed and/or got a bit sloppy? I've heard many complain about her going on in too much detail in the other books but I was so enraptured with them I wouldn't have wanted to have seen one word edited out. Not so here, the story just rambles on and on with needless plot twists and characters that go nowhere (for shame what she did with Benjamin Franklin), and as for the overly verbose details - I did not need to know every minute detail of every medical procedure performed by Claire and most especially not the removal of Jamie's finger. Worst of all, was the constantly switching point of views (I believe there are seven) leading to a very uneven, choppy flow and I was always able to put this down and walk away from it - frankly half way through I started another book and finished that before coming back to Echo. Cut a good chunk of the first 2/3 of the book out and flesh out the last and keep it moving a bit more instead of ending it as she did with those maddening cliff-hangers this would be a solid five star read. As it is and I can\u2019t believe I\u2019m saying it but \u2013 three stars. ...more LOVED Outlander, Dragonfly in Amber and Voyager, but this book was *Simply Horrible*. Plodding, too much description of certain events that are of zero importance to the overall plot (usually medical), the rehash of old themes and introduction of new, just plain ridiculous ones made this almost painful to read. Thank goodness I took it out from the library and didn't waste my money or shelf space on it. Obviously I am quite disappointed in this latest installment of Jamie and Claire, because the LOVED Outlander, Dragonfly in Amber and Voyager, but this book was *Simply Horrible*. Plodding, too much description of certain events that are of zero importance to the overall plot (usually medical), the rehash of old themes and introduction of new, just plain ridiculous ones made this almost painful to read. Thank goodness I took it out from the library and didn't waste my money or shelf space on it. Obviously I am quite disappointed in this latest installment of Jamie and Claire, because there is so little of interest happening between of these two. I agree with another reviewer that I couldn't remember who 80% of the plethora of characters in the book were (and she didn't refresh us), and adding a whole host more made it even muddier.. Add in the back and forth thing... no thanks. I think that the series started going downhill with the Revolutionary War, and I stand by that. Sadly, I don't think I'll be reading any more of them because it will further taint the magic that Outlander once was. ...more I wondered what sort of man - or woman, perhaps? - had lain here, leaving no more than an echo of their bones, so much more fragile than the enduring rocks that sheltered them. Buddy read with my friend, Negine Last book of my re-read of the Outlander series before.... Written in My Own Heart's Blood En viento y ceniza hay una parte donde Jamie recuerda su tiempo en Francia, en la Universite. Cuando con amigos se dirige a beber a una taberna, se consigue con una adivina que lee el futuro en la mano. De nombre Dubois. \u2014Neuf \u2014dijo ella, golpe\u00e1ndole la palma de la mano en distintos sitios al azar\u2014. Tienes un nueve en la mano. Y la muerte \u2014a\u00f1adi\u00f3 en tono despreocupado\u2014. Morir\u00e1s nueve veces antes de descansar en tu tumba. Esto para recordarles que Jamie no muere sino nueve veces antes de realm En viento y ceniza hay una parte donde Jamie recuerda su tiempo en Francia, en la Universite. Cuando con amigos se dirige a beber a una taberna, se consigue con una adivina que lee el futuro en la mano. De nombre Dubois. \u2014Neuf \u2014dijo ella, golpe\u00e1ndole la palma de la mano en distintos sitios al azar\u2014. Tienes un nueve en la mano. Y la muerte \u2014a\u00f1adi\u00f3 en tono despreocupado\u2014. Morir\u00e1s nueve veces antes de descansar en tu tumba. Esto para recordarles que Jamie no muere sino nueve veces antes de realmente morir. Ya en Ecos del pasado seguimos contando. \u2014\u00bfEst\u00e1s bien? \u2014le pregunt\u00e9 por guardar las formas. Me sent\u00eda muy tranquila, de un modo remoto y extra\u00f1o. \u2014Estoy intentando recordar cu\u00e1ntas vidas me quedan \u2014contest\u00f3 entre jadeos. \u2014Cuatro, me parece. O cinco. En este libro nos conseguimos con una novedad en cuanto a la narraci\u00f3n, como es muy bien visto: Claire tiene el punto de vista principal en la historia desde el primer libro, mientras otros se han ido a\u00f1adiendo. En Ecos del pasado tenemos puntos de vista de Claire, Jamie, Roger, Brianna, Lord John Grey, William, Ian\u2026 hasta Rachell Hunter. \u00a1Y Gem! La novela sigue desde el final del libro anterior, Roger y Bree han cruzado las piedras y vuelto a su vida en el siglo XX. Junto a Mandy y Gem. A vivir en una casa antigua que, sorprendentemente, es Lallybroch. Mientras son recibidas cartas de sus padres enviadas desde su tiempo e inform\u00e1ndoles de los eventos que van sucediendo a lo largo de la historia, como manera de sentirse m\u00e1s unidos a pesar de la \u00e9poca que los separa. Cosa que halle m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de entra\u00f1able. Mientras Roger busca su vocaci\u00f3n, Bree consigue trabajo, Gem asiste a la escuela y Mandy crece sana luego de la operaci\u00f3n por la cardiopat\u00eda que le fue diagnosticada y el motivo por el cual regresaron. Y aunque hay muchas cosas que me gustar\u00eda que no hubieran sucedido a consecuencia de tu regreso, nunca lamentar\u00e9 que conozcas a tu padre, y que \u00e9l te conozca a ti. En el otro lado de la historia est\u00e1n Jamie y Claire. Y los planes se ven da\u00f1ados luego de la batalla naval del barco el cual zarpaban para irse a Edimburgo y trabajar como impresor (antiguo trabajo de Jamie, si recuerdan Viajera). Llevar a Ian de vuelta a Escocia y Lallybroch, despu\u00e9s de lo sucedido con Arch Bug. Y m\u00e1s si Jamie se jura no estar jam\u00e1s detr\u00e1s del ca\u00f1\u00f3n de una pistola frente a su hijo. Y lo m\u00e1s temido y/o no deseado llega. Cosa que se le\u00eda venir desde la guerra de la regulaci\u00f3n en Viento y ceniza. La guerra de la independencia de Norteam\u00e9rica. Estados unidos frente a los brit\u00e1nicos. Y no quiero comparar porque, aunque quisiera que hubiese sido m\u00e1s descrita la batalla de Culloden en Atrapada en el tiempo, lamentablemente no se pod\u00eda. Doli\u00f3 y, bastante las muertes a ra\u00edz de ella. Todav\u00eda me entristece Murtagh. La guerra la he vivido junto a Jamie y Claire. La perdida y la desesperaci\u00f3n. Y en este libro se lee la magnitud del da\u00f1o que puede causar la ambici\u00f3n, el ansia, el poder, la posesi\u00f3n. Con sucesos muy bien descritos. Y un tanto ciertos. \u00a1La muerte de personas que luchan por ser libres! Donde y aun, con el conocimiento de que los americanos salen triunfando, nada es seguro. La guerra no me era desconocida en t\u00e9rminos de muerte y heridas, pero no hab\u00eda estado nunca tan cerca de una batalla. No hab\u00eda estado jam\u00e1s en un campo de batalla donde los muertos y los heridos se hallaban a\u00fan tirados por el suelo antes de que intervinieran los m\u00e9dicos y se enterrara a los fallecidos. Y como personaje a Jamie lo admiro (m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de amarlo) por su lealtad. Que junto a Claire lo hacen una de mis parejas literarias favoritas. Aqu\u00ed viene el fangirleo, pero es que, Ay, \u00a1que lindos son juntos\u00a1 \u2014Me siento tal vez como te sentiste t\u00fa \u2014le susurr\u00f3 en voz demasiado baja para que ella se despertara\u2014. Cuando pasaste a trav\u00e9s de las piedras. Como si el mundo a\u00fan estuviera all\u00ed, pero ya no fuera el mundo que tuviste. \u2014T\u00fa eres mi mundo \u2014murmur\u00f3 ella y, entonces, su respiraci\u00f3n cambi\u00f3 y se lo llev\u00f3 consigo a un lugar seguro. Si bien las practicas medicas de Claire son s\u00faper interesantes, desde practicar una Amigdalaectomia a operar una oclusi\u00f3n intestinal. Con lo limitado de la \u00e9poca\u2026 \u00a1Y todo tan cierto! Les digo esto porque soy estudiante de medicina y cuando estudie la historia de la cirug\u00eda gran parte de los procedimientos eran descritos de igual forma. Espectacular. Y otro punto admirable de la Gabaldon. Todo el mundo quiere una cura y, sin lugar a dudas, no hay m\u00e9dico que no quiera d\u00e1rsela. Pero hay muchas cosas que escapan al poder de cualquier m\u00e9dico, y aunque tal vez no le digas eso a un paciente, es bueno conocer tus propios l\u00edmites. Lord John Grey tiene sus puntos de vista muy interesantes. Y si yo fangrileaba antes ahora m\u00e1s. Porque, ufff, que hombre m\u00e1s interesante. William Ransom es un personaje que me sorprendi\u00f3 bastante. Y leerlo convertirse en un hombre, valiente y fuerte ante su primera guerra. Como teniente de la guarnici\u00f3n y en el bando contrario de los americanos; los ingleses. A quien cuya vida cambia por completo\u2026 Ian, oh, joven Ian. Este es un personaje al que se ha le\u00eddo crecer desde el tercer libro, convertirse en Iroqu\u00e9s, alejarse de su familia, volver, conocer su historia. Cada libro nos da un vistazo de su personalidad aguerrida, misteriosa. Un poco t\u00edmido, miedoso, debido a sucesos que han pasado con Emily que lo perturbaban. Y espero que ese ciclo ya sea cerrado como parte de su encuentro con Emily, la l\u00e1pida de Iseaba\u00edl en Lallybroch. Gesto muy bonito. Esperemos lo que sigue con Rachel sea mejor. Porque Ian, de verdad, se lo merece. Mas la introducci\u00f3n de nuevos personajes como los cu\u00e1queros hermanos Hunter, el brigadier Fraser. Denys Randall-Isaacs que wtf! Jam\u00e1s imagine que aparecer\u00eda en la historia, de echo lo hac\u00eda por muerto o algo. Es un Randall as\u00ed que si en este no causo la magnitud o cantidad de problemas que espere, lo creo seguro en otros libros. Rob Cameron que $%$&%/ \u00a1Ah! Siempre viene un personaje que me hace odiarlo. La aparici\u00f3n de personajes que desde libros anteriores no aparec\u00edan; Hamish Mackenzie, William Buccleigh MacKenzie, \u00bfya les dije que lo odiaba, \u00bfno? Pues me redimo. Jajaja. Es que luego de lo que le sucedi\u00f3 a Roger no era de menos. Pero aqu\u00ed leemos un personaje totalmente distinto, hasta colaborativo. Pens\u00e9 que iba a dar problemas y resulto todo lo contrario. (view spoiler) [omggg! \u00bfPor d\u00f3nde empezar? Es que wow este libro. Fue esplendido. IMPACTANTE. Cr\u00e9anme, primero casi me mata de un susto. Por Dios, si cre\u00ed que Rollo mor\u00eda en tres ocasiones. Ni hablarles del hecho de que Fergus es hijo de St. Germain. Roger perdido\u2026Luego William\u2026 y cuando Jamie lo ve por primera vez desde lejitos. Su hijo. Yo estuve todo el libro: Que William se entere que Jamie es su papa, Que William se entere que Jamie es su papa, Que William se entere que Jamie es su papa. Y los nervios a mil cuando Jamie le da el sombrero. \u2014 \u00bfEst\u00e1s bien? \u00bfQu\u00e9 demonios te pasa? \u2014me sent\u00e9 a su lado y le puse una mano en la espalda, empezando a preocuparme. \u2014No s\u00e9 si re\u00edr o llorar, Sassenach \u2014replic\u00f3. Apart\u00f3 la mano de la cara y vi que, en efecto, parec\u00eda estar haciendo ambas cosas. Ten\u00eda las pesta\u00f1as h\u00famedas pero las comisuras de su boca se curvaban. \u2014He perdido a un familiar y he encontrado a otro, todo en el mismo momento, y me he dado cuenta un momento despu\u00e9s de que, por segunda vez en su vida, he estado a punto de matar a mi hijo \u2014me mir\u00f3 y agit\u00f3 la cabeza, bastante impotente, entre la risa y la consternaci\u00f3n\u2014. No deber\u00eda haberlo hecho, lo s\u00e9. Es s\u00f3lo que..., lo pens\u00e9 todo a la vez, \u00bfqu\u00e9 pasar\u00eda si no erraba el tiro en una tercera ocasi\u00f3n? Y... y pens\u00e9 que quiz\u00e1 pod\u00eda sencillamente... hablarle. Como hombre. Por si fuera la \u00fanica vez, \u00bfentiendes? Es que Ayyyy, luego lo hace y es al final que, pffff, me frustra. Y la Rachel por Dios, que, si antes envidiaba a Claire por tener a Frank y luego Jamie, ahora es ella quien logra tener la atenci\u00f3n de tres chicos. TRES. Ian, William y Hamish! Ay, Dios. Otro Highlander. Pero no, NO. Es muy grande la tentaci\u00f3n, pero shipeo Ian-Rachell. Y el viejo Ian, que, aunque me alegro mucho que el joven Ian volviera donde su familia, me doli\u00f3 much\u00edsimo su muerte y no lo esperaba, pens\u00e9 que duraba hasta viejito con Jenny. Eso fue muy triste y lamentable, estuve las ultimas paginas llorando mares. Luego me quede sin u\u00f1as porque, \u00bfwhat? Jamie, \u201cmuerto\u201d? Si contando las vidas le quedaban 5. Y aun teniendo el conocimiento de que no era cierto ni posible (debido a que no era el Euterpe ) leer el sufrimiento de Claire me conmovi\u00f3 bastante, me hac\u00eda sufrir y enternecer. \u00bfPod\u00eda dividirme por completo?, me pregunt\u00e9. \u00bfPod\u00eda mi alma abandonar mi cuerpo sin que yo muriera primero? \u00bfO lo hab\u00eda hecho ya? Ahora 4 vidas. Mierda. \u2014He tenido conocimiento carnal de su esposa \u2014le solt\u00f3. Esperaba morir m\u00e1s o menos al instante tras hacer esa declaraci\u00f3n, pero todo continu\u00f3 como siempre. Los p\u00e1jaros siguieron gorjeando en los \u00e1rboles y el ruido de los caballos que arrancaban la hierba y babeaban mientras pac\u00edan era el \u00fanico sonido que se superpon\u00eda al de la corriente de agua. Abri\u00f3 un ojo y vio a Jamie Fraser de pie, mir\u00e1ndolo con la cabeza ladeada. \u2014 \u00bfAh, s\u00ed? \u2014dijo Jamie con curiosidad\u2014. \u00bfPor qu\u00e9? Lo primero que pens\u00e9 fue: mierda, la jodiste, Claire. Sexo con Lord John Grey. Y cuando John se lo cuenta a Jamie pens\u00e9: \u00bfQuieres morir? Pero\u2026 \u00bfC\u00f3mo lo dejan ah\u00ed? Necesito leer su reacci\u00f3n. Necesito el siguiente libro. Ahora. (hide spoiler) ] Con una narraci\u00f3n impecable, el s\u00e9ptimo libro de la saga Forastera es una experiencia. Con sorpresas, secretos develados, acci\u00f3n y mucha adrenalina ha logrado cautivarme una vez m\u00e1s. Adem\u00e1s de unas referencias hist\u00f3ricas muy emocionantes que lograron mantenerme enganchada hasta el final. Y no esperaba menos. A por Escrito con la sangre de mi coraz\u00f3n . ...more 5 STARS!!!!! EPIC SERIES!!!! And still more to come!!!! What a ride this has been!!!! It has taken me half a year, yes 6 months to get through this fabulous series. I embarked on my quest of audio books back in July of 2013, and I have finally reached the end of my journey... so far, as there will be another book out in the series later this year. AND.... a TV mini-series on STARZ\u00a9 airing in March 2014!!!!!! Words can not express my love for this series, and my devotion to the author. They will a 5 STARS!!!!! EPIC SERIES!!!! And still more to come!!!! What a ride this has been!!!! It has taken me half a year, yes 6 months to get through this fabulous series. I embarked on my quest of audio books back in July of 2013, and I have finally reached the end of my journey... so far, as there will be another book out in the series later this year. AND.... a TV mini-series on STARZ\u00a9 airing in March 2014!!!!!! Words can not express my love for this series, and my devotion to the author. They will always hold a special place in my heart. I have truly come to fall in love with the characters and their stories. I feel like I have been living their lives right along with them, experiencing the pains and joys of their lives as if they were my own. I also have to mention that I am in awe of the level of research and preparation that has been put into these books. While I know they are fiction, they are set in within history. Using the real events of the times to play into the drama of the character's daily lives. And quite educational at that. In fact they have sparked my interest in World and American History causing me to seek out other references to the real life accounts of these historical events. I am not going to go into specifics of the story in this review, as this story is on-going from book to book, and it is difficult to rate one segment of someone's life as better than the rest. Yes, I do have my favorite segments of the story... but they are all part of a bigger picture in my mind, like one giant book. That is why I gave them all the same rating. And the story in not finished. There are still many questions left unanswered, and events in progress. And for an author to capture your interest for this long.. and keep it peaked, is amazing in itself. Lastly, I just want to mention the narrator of these audio books. I chose to read these via audio because I didn't want to take up all of my reading time with such lengthy tomes. And they are LENGTHY!!!! Even the audio books take a good bit of time. But I can listen while doing other things, which makes it easier for me to get through longer texts without hassle. I also realized that many times a narrator can either make or break an audio book for the reader. Well, in this case, Devina Porter , the narrator of this series completely MADE the story come to life for me. She has been my constant companion for 6 months now, and I will miss spending time with her each day. Her accents and acting ability baffles the mind. And her ability to create and distinguish characters, both male and female, English, Scottish, Irish, American, and even African slave has completely BLOWN MY MIND!!!!! BRAVO Ms. Porter, and thank you for bringing this story to life in such a memorable way!!!! I highly recommend these audio books to anyone wishing to take on this series, but is wary due to it's mere length. You will not be disappointed. Well I've said more than I intended. The next book.. Written in My Own Heart's Blood will be released on June 10 2014, according to the author's website. And the TV series on STARZ is set to start in March 2014!!!! These books will be on my all time favorites list for all time!!!!! 5 STARS for the OUTLANDER SERIES!!!!!!!!!!! ...more I should start off with a giant disclaimer that I am blinded by all things Outlander. Even an Outlander book with some problems is a 5 star book for me. The characters that I know and love more than make up for any qualms I have with the storyline. I don't think I have ever read a book with bigger cliffhangers than this one. A lot of criticisms I have read regarding the book center around the fact that so many different plot lines are left completely unresolved. I have to say it doesn't really b I should start off with a giant disclaimer that I am blinded by all things Outlander. Even an Outlander book with some problems is a 5 star book for me. The characters that I know and love more than make up for any qualms I have with the storyline. I don't think I have ever read a book with bigger cliffhangers than this one. A lot of criticisms I have read regarding the book center around the fact that so many different plot lines are left completely unresolved. I have to say it doesn't really bother me, because I know Diana is writing an 8th book and all will be well in the world of Jamie and Claire. That's not to say that I am patiently waiting for the next book, far from it! I CAN'T WAIT to find out what happens and I'm going to devour the next book the second it comes out. As for what did bother me... (view spoiler) [ 1. I'm not sure if I like the character of Rachel Hunter (I can't help thinking of the model, haha). For now, I'm keeping an open mind to see how her character develops and if she is fleshed out more in the next book. She is a bit one-dimensional at this point. Maybe I'm critical though because I love Ian so much and have high standards for him. 2. I felt like I was missing some references and nuances to certain characters because I haven't read the Lord John books yet. I'm definitely going to be picking those up soon so the next time I read Echo (yes, I'm already planning a re-read of the whole series because I'm that obsessed, haha) I will hopefully be more educated about the background of the characters from those stories. That being said, I could have dealt with a little less Lord John (as much as I enjoy him) and a little more Jamie in certain parts. 3. The whole Lord John--Jamie--Claire triangle was almost unbelievable. Claire should have realized that communication was spotty at best during that time and that there was a real possibility Jamie wasn't on the ship. *sigh* I should have seen the foreshadowing with the Jamie and Laoghaire interaction earlier in Echo. Anyway, I guess we will see how the drama is resolved in the next book. I fully believe that all will be well with Jamie and Claire though, because I can't imagine Diana writing a whole book with them at odds with each other. Now for the good stuff!!! I was so sad when Ian died. I definitely shed a few tears reading those scenes. I loved that Willie found out Jamie was his father. Loved that Roger and Briana are all settled in at Lallybroch (well, maybe WERE settled). Loved young Ian and Rollo as usual. Loved all the Claire/Jamie interaction. I could go on and on... (hide spoiler) ] But, I think though that my absolute favorite part about Echo is seeing the evolution of the characters. I think that it is nothing short of amazing that Diana can write about the same characters over and over again and still make them grow and evolve as people. I loved reading Echo and thinking back to what Jamie and Claire were like in Outlander and even young Ian in earlier books. They really have grown up and grown older. I think that that is the key to what makes Jamie, Claire, and the rest so lovable and so real; Diana writes them as if they are real people who grow, change, and live. I know them and love them and can't wait to see what happens next. Re-read Update (2/21/2011) : I just finished re-reading the entire Outlander series and all of the Lord John books/novellas. I definitely enjoyed Echo much better the second time around. Although DG has written Echo in such a way that you don't necessarily have to have read the Lord John stories to figure out who certain characters are, I don't think that Echo can be fully appreciated unless you've read them. I highly recommend reading them first. The first time I read Echo, I thought there was a little too much of Lord John, but it really didn't bother me on my second read (possibly because I've read the Lord John stories and enjoy him as a character even more now). Rachel Hunter's character also seemed a little weak to me on my initial read, but I liked her more the second time around. However, I would still like to see her character developed more. What did still bother me on my re-read was the whole Lord John-Claire-Jamie development. It just feels overly fabricated to me. Part Six of Echo was probably my favorite section (I can't even count how many times I got teary-eyed during that Part), but it just goes downhill in Part Seven. I wish DG had ended Echo at Part Six (obviously adding a little extra for finesse) and left Part Seven for the beginning of Book Eight. Echo is what it is though and I'm very glad I read it a second time. 5 Stars. ...more Re-read 2013 (will cross-post to goodreads and amazon) Hmmmm.....I've been trying to sort out my feelings about this book since I finished it last night. I really am confused and feel somewhat betrayed I guess. As a devout fan of this series, I feel that Gabaldon is just stringing her fans along with no real respect for them, and it irritates me. 1. Obviously I love this series. No one gets to the 7th book in a series, each book being between 500-800 pages long, and each book being published 3-4 years apart, w (will cross-post to goodreads and amazon) Hmmmm.....I've been trying to sort out my feelings about this book since I finished it last night. I really am confused and feel somewhat betrayed I guess. As a devout fan of this series, I feel that Gabaldon is just stringing her fans along with no real respect for them, and it irritates me. 1. Obviously I love this series. No one gets to the 7th book in a series, each book being between 500-800 pages long, and each book being published 3-4 years apart, without being quite the fan. I love Gabaldon's straight-forward writing style. I love her attention to historical and medical accuracy. These things are what make her books stand out for me. I continuously try to explain to people that this series is NOT a Time Travel Romance series. It is SO SO much more. This last installment HAS all of these elements, which is why I gave it a four star rating rather than something lower. I also had to respect my status as a huge fan, and Gabaldon's obvious hardwork and research that goes into her writing. BUT....... 2. I probably shouldn't have read an excerpt on Gabaldon's website a few years ago, because the excerpt (involving Jamie's return after being supposedly dead) colored my expectations of the action in this book. Throughout the reading, I kept waiting to get to THAT part, and everything else just felt like filler until those big plot points in the excerpts. So, I'm waiting for these elements of the story to arrive, and all the characters to converge as I felt they eventually would. But they never did!!! There was so much excruciating detail about things that it seemed the reader should care about, but I just didn't. Lord John's spy business. Percival Beauchamp. Why do we need to care? If it's important later on in the series, I don't know WHY. William lost in the fog. TWICE. And the excruciating minutaie of his experiences. His experiences do eventually become interesting, but in the meantime, I skimmed MANY MANY pages. This book easily could've been 500 pages insead of 800. So, as I skimmed pages, looking for the events that I knew were coming (a la the excerpt) I found I had quite reached the end of the book. The details in the excerpt DID come to pass, but not until the final 50 pages, and everything was not the same as it was in the excerpt. Then, the ending (I'll get to THAT later). 3. Jamie and Claire are always the main thrill in these books. They actually didn't have a big part in this novel. The skipping around of POV was highly irritating. Just when I became interested in William, POV would change to Bree and Roger. Lord John's role was never interesting. The Bree and Roger POV was interesting to me. I did love the emotionally heart-rending scenes when they read letters from Jamie and Claire. I loved to see them reintegrate into modern society and how they dealt with the knowledge of time travel. THEIR action got REALLY interesting in the final scenes of the novel. Jamie and Claire. Love them. But I feel that Gabaldon took PAST scenes in past novels and just replayed them for Jamie and Claire. Claire preforming surgery on Jamie. Jamie and Claire involved in piracy and sea battles. Claire following Jamie to battle and performing medical procedures on the battlefield (over and over again to much excruciating detail). Really, there was more than one occasion when I had an acute since of deja vu, and I didn't like it. 4. THE BLEEPIN' ENDING!!!! ARGH!!!! This is where my feelings of betrayal come in. It takes Gabaldon many years to publish these books. As a show of good faith, it is not right to leave the reading with SERIOUS cliffhangers. I mean, literallly, in the middle of the action, CLIFFHANGERS. Mid-scenes. Ugh. AND--I did not care AT ALL for what went on with Claire and Lord John at the end. The reunion of Jamie and Claire should've been touching but it was made inappropriately comical. It felt wrong. The entire, rushed, ending felt wrong. The revelations William came to....just all wrong. Too fast. Too horrible. I'm very upset and disappointed. Now what? Another four years? Hmm. ...more A completely devoted Outlander fan, I've been reading the excerpts wherever I can find them. I can't wait for the published novel. Update: The good news, and the (not so bad depending on how you want to look at it news) I got the novel a day early! Turns out that the bookstore in Penn station was selling them. WOOT! At which I had to turn it over as contraband to Jackie. She and I both know me too well to think that I'm going to get ANY studying done for my very first Anatomy exam of the semeste A completely devoted Outlander fan, I've been reading the excerpts wherever I can find them. I can't wait for the published novel. Update: The good news, and the (not so bad depending on how you want to look at it news) I got the novel a day early! Turns out that the bookstore in Penn station was selling them. WOOT! At which I had to turn it over as contraband to Jackie. She and I both know me too well to think that I'm going to get ANY studying done for my very first Anatomy exam of the semester if there's an unread Gabaldon book lying around! (She really does know me so well. It's disturbing on an oddly comfortable level.) She promises that I can have it back as soon as Wednesday's exam is over. :-P THE UPDATE: I don't know if I can adequately describe the sputterings, mutterings, and dark words that consumed my soul when I turned the last page...AND THERE WAS NO MORE. My first introduction to the world of Outlander was a little over 5 years ago, via the recommendation of a family friend. At first, I dismissed it entirely as a \"romance,\" which was probably my first mistake. (It didn't help that my Barnes and Noble had it shelved in the Romance section at the time. After a little prodding, I did start to read...and read...and read. I was lucky at the time. A Breath of Snow and Ashes was only a few months away from publication, and I was content to cool my heels for a few months to find out WHAT HAPPENED NEXT. Then, after devouring Snow and Ashes, (losing sleep and scorning food in the process,) I was even more disturbed to discover that I would now have to wait A VERY LONG TIME to find out WHAT HAPPENS NEXT. Anyone who knows me can tell you that I'm not long on patience. But I did it. I waited 4 long years, and Echo's finally here. I deliberately didn't read any of the other reviews, so that I wouldn't ruin anything for myself. However, now that I've finished reading the book, and having glanced through a few of the other reviews, I can agree with a couple of things. 1. The narrative was a little choppy. I gather from Gabaldon's own commentary, as well as from other reviewers, that Diana wrote many of the scenes out of sequence and fitted them together later. I wasn't thrown too off balance, although I would have been happier with a few smoother transitions. 2. No one's story is really completed. You do have a sense of completion with Ian, but there's never a final note to establish a future. 3. The book had the odd feel of a novel that started as 2000+ pages, that the author took a butcher knife to, cut it down the middle, and served up the first half to their readers. Despite the above, I was definitely not disappointed. I've always been remarkably impressed by the thoroughness of Gabaldon's research, as well as the depth and dimension of her characters. I've re-read the series over a dozen times (I'm not ashamed to admit it...) and loved each new detail I'd forgotten every time. I can't recommend the series enough. ...more I never in a million years thought I\u2019d give DG less than five stars. She\u2019s one of three authors on my release-date auto-buy, and I\u2019ve been eagerly awaiting this book for years. But having spent the last couple of weeks reading it, I really don\u2019t even know what to say (I know I should take that back \u2013 I ALWAYS have something to say and I\u2019m about to say it). Problem one: It took me several weeks to read. I\u2019m a compulsive reader. I can\u2019t sleep with a story unfinished, and yet Echo never grabbed me. I never in a million years thought I\u2019d give DG less than five stars. She\u2019s one of three authors on my release-date auto-buy, and I\u2019ve been eagerly awaiting this book for years. But having spent the last couple of weeks reading it, I really don\u2019t even know what to say (I know I should take that back \u2013 I ALWAYS have something to say and I\u2019m about to say it). Problem one: It took me several weeks to read. I\u2019m a compulsive reader. I can\u2019t sleep with a story unfinished, and yet Echo never grabbed me. I went several days without evening picking it up because I didn\u2019t feel like it. I never felt emotionally engaged. A good lot of the time, I just didn\u2019t care what was happening. And even worse, I felt bored by the story. Problem two: The book is so physically big that it hurt to read. And I mean that literally. I had shoulder and elbow pain from holding it up. It really, really needed to be cut. There was a point where I wished DG had cut out the last 150 pages and replaced them with \u201cSix months later.\u201d There was just too much of mundane life and while beautifully written, it had no presence, no force, no suspense. The book overall needed more focus on story and less on how to fix a collapsed lung using nothing but tar and a bird feather. Many of the elements got lots of story didn\u2019t end up leading anywhere (such as Ian & the two orphan girls. I expected them to show up again.) Problem three: Timing. The book is really three different stories. Jamie & Claire in 1777 America (mostly), William (Wee Willie) Ramsome in about the same time period, and Bree & Roger in 1980\u2019s Scotland. But the timelines didn\u2019t happen evenly and so I was often rather confused. For example: William is leaving to go find Dr. Hunter in the rebel camp. Then we switch to Jamie/Claire and cover 7-8-9 months time in a hundred or more pages. Then we go back to William who has found the doctor a day or so later. This went on throughout the book, and made me crazy. Since one of the main foreshadows of the book is that Jamie & William would meet again, I could never tell if they were even in the same time / same place. Problem four: Pacing. The book has more of an episodic plot rather than linear. It unfolds around smaller incidents that contribute to a greater whole. Many of the smaller incidents involve the William, Lord Grey, and the battles of the American Revolution, Jamie & Claire trying to make it to Scotland, Roger and Bree making a life in more modern Lallybroch. Things move slowly, but beautifully. I have learned to expect that from DG, and she is so good at it that I enjoy the details and the history and the true-to-life characters (knowing that she is as historically accurate as possible). But in this book it was way TOO slow. And the last couple hundred pages (the ending?) were just strange. First things slow down so much that pages and pages are devoted to reminiscing and revisiting the past and death and\u2026 (well I can\u2019t tell you everything!) Then it switches so that the story & people move so fast I can\u2019t keep up. And the turn-about surprises are SO surprising that I have a hard time believing them. I\u2019m left with a feeling of \u2018where did that come from?\u2019 and \u2018why did that happen?\u2019 and \u2018you\u2019ve got to be kidding me!\u2019 The end was hugely dissatisfying, and yet that was (to me) where the real story was. The good stuff was glossed over. So while DG is still one of the masters of the written word and I will probably fork out another $30 for her next book, I overall am rather disappointed. I feel like she is more interested in showing all the neat historical details she has learned than in telling a story. She has lost the story. And that makes me so sad because I have spent something like 16 or 17 years following these characters and being invested in their final outcome (we all know it comes back to that ghost watching Claire brush her hair). Please DG, go back to telling us their story rather than showing us what it was like to live in the eighteenth century. ...more OMG! I hated the ending and I want the next book now!<+++>An Echo in the Bone</+++>", "Title": "An Echo in the Bone"},
