{"Comments": "First the bad news: Russo, as one of the Great Male Narcissists (a term coined by D.F. Wallace who did not include Russo in his assessment)has probably been accused of both racism and misogyny and these allegations do have some merit. I have read all of <---A>Richard Russo</---A>'s books and I have greatly enjoyed them all. But I am troubled by the fact that often, if a female character isn't chasing you with a rolling pin, she's got your dick in her mouth. Crazed harridans and insatiable sluts make up the ma First the bad news: Russo, as one of the Great Male Narcissists (a term coined by D.F. Wallace who did not include Russo in his assessment)has probably been accused of both racism and misogyny and these allegations do have some merit. I have read all of Richard Russo's books and I have greatly enjoyed them all. But I am troubled by the fact that often, if a female character isn't chasing you with a rolling pin, she's got your dick in her mouth. Crazed harridans and insatiable sluts make up the majority of Russo's novels' female population. Unless a character is the wise wife-y stand-in in which case she's completing your thoughts,<---M> balancing your checkbook</---M>, ironing your shirts and reminding you to get that lump checked out. Basically making her a magic elf who exists in the novel solely as a functionary - taking care of her man and her family. More troubling still are Russo's African-American characters. Their contraction-laden speech lets you know that they're different from the book's protagonist (lest you confuse them), almost always an English professor or someone well-read. The black characters inhabit a world of menial labor and rough neighborhoods. If they interact with the main characters at all it's to teach them a lesson and help them along their way. The \"<+++>Bridge of Sighs</+++>\" contains just such a character, a \"Magical Negro\". This term was coined by the Onion's AV Club ( http://www.avclub.com/content/feature... ) and is used to describe an African-American character whose sole purpose is to help the white protagonist learn his or her lesson or reach some goal. So there's all of this to consider and to use as a grain of salt when I say that \"<+++>Bridge of Sighs</+++>\" is an almost perfect novel. The book is character driven, as is all of Russo's work. And Russo's characters and plots are often interchangeable. Academia, infidelity, illness, small-town life, and old friendships are themes present in Russo's oeuvre . And yet here the characters are people you feel you know - *want* to know. I was unable to sleep last night and as I lay in bed, worrying about the things you worry about when you can't sleep, I found myself thinking more and more of the characters in the novel and their plight, as if they existed and that plight was very real. I thought about Lucy's relationship with his mother and why he never gave her the credit that was due. I thought about Sarah and the life she might have had had she made different choices. I even thought about Dec, wondering what his cheap aftershave smelled like and if he might be smarter than he let on. I shan't give away too many details as the plot is deliberately twisty and meant to surprise you at turns. I don't kid myself in thinking that any of my friends would read this book. I wish they would but they won't. But someone else might see this and not want to know all the details in advance. I will say only that I am cynical, hyper-aware of racist and sexist subtexts, and adamantly repelled by chick-lit of any type (and really of girly things in general) and I still LOVED this book unabashedly. ...more The Bridge of Sighs is that Venice pont which prisoners traverse on their way to jail, usually for good. The sighs are the prisoners bemoaning their dark fate. Are we all so condemned? Set in the upper reaches of New York, the small city of Thomaston is familiar territory for readers of Empire Falls. This is more than a family tale. It is the story of a town as epitomized by a group of friends and relations over three generations. The big theme here is predestination, whether people are fated to The Bridge of Sighs is that Venice pont which prisoners traverse on their way to jail, usually for good. The sighs are the prisoners bemoaning their dark fate. Are we all so condemned? Set in the upper reaches of New York, the small city of Thomaston is familiar territory for readers of Empire Falls. This is more than a family tale. It is the story of a town as epitomized by a group of friends and relations over three generations. The big theme here is predestination, whether people are fated to certain ends regardless of their desires. Characters face the momentum of their past and either submit or rebel. Even in rebellion they remain who they are. The river runs red with the effluent of the town\u2019s largest employer, a tanner. While the tanner employs many in the area, it also poisons the ground water and kills via cancer the same people it supports with jobs.<---F> Perhaps that is the Edenic apple</---F>. There are multiple narrators here, primary of which is Louis Charles Lynch, cursed with the nickname Lucy when a teacher reads the roll, shortening Louis and adding his initial. We follow his life from childhood to age 60 when he and his wife prepare to travel to Venice to see a long-lost friend. Renowned painter Robert Noonan was a major force in their lives, friend to Lucy, more than friend, maybe, to Lucy\u2019s wife Sarah. There are class boundaries, some of them hard-wired into streets that divide better off neighborhoods from the less fortunate. Characters cross those neighborhood and class borders, but the marks left by those lines remain, like faded scars. Racism rears its nasty face, as was not exactly unknown in the 1950s. We get to see some growth there as well. This is such a tale of parallel structures that it seemed lattice-like. First we have pairs of fathers and sons; Big Lou, a large, naively optimistic, friendly milkman and his son, Lucy, the primary narrator, who is more like him than not. Bobby Marconi is a tough kid, best friends with Lucy, his protector for a time. His father is a harsh, angry man, friend to no one, cruel to his family, verbally abusive, unfaithful. Bobby carries his father\u2019s violent tendencies within, occasionally letting loose. George Mock and his son Three offer a lesser echo of the father-son patterns. Three and Bobby reject their fathers as much as Lucy embraces his. Mother-daughter dynamics are not ignored. Sarah Berg and her mother are in focus towards the end of the book, as is Sarah\u2019s relationship with Tessa. Each generation has its seducers, those who have it in their nature to attract women with the pheromone of reckless excitement. Declan was that for Tessa as Bobby is/was that for Sarah. Jerzy\u2019s girlfriend, (I forgot her name), serves the opposite purpose for Lucy, as she offers a Lolita-ish tease in return for the right to get free stuff from Lucy\u2019s family store, and to ignore him when he cannot offer her material rewards. Nan, the prettiest girl in town, daughter of the richest man, is an empty, vacuous vessel, concerned solely with appearances, as her mother is later shown to be. What happens to the hopes of youth? For Tessa and Sarah it was their art. Yet it is the rough and tumble Bobby who winds up becoming an artist. Maybe he could only do that by escaping from Thomaston. The thuggish Jerzy is perhaps the most transformed of all. Guilty of bullying to the point of traumatizing Lucy and to putting an innocent into a coma, he is transformed when, laden with guilt for his major crime, he becomes receptive to the intellectual gifts offered by Sarah\u2019s teacher father and ultimately finds an outlet in academia, again away from Thomaston. Yet one need not leave town to find success. Big Lou, then Lucy are perfectly content to remain where they are, building the small business that becomes the centerpiece of their very fulfilling lives. Yet is Lucy ever condemned by his spells to a life of at least occasional withdrawal? Isn\u2019t he, at least in part, hiding out in the face of stress, just as he did in the trunk? Was Sarah\u2019s father\u2019s fate predetermined? He is a drug addict and an intellectual. We learn that it was his addiction that caused him to leave the big city and hide out in Thomaston, and later he turns to his addiction when life becomes too hard. Bobby\u2019s mother also turns to drugs to dull the pain of her existence. Russo\u2019s characters breathe with life. I found that I identified with one in particular and suffered pangs when it appeared that he would be betrayed by people close to him. I related to the very human flaws in the characters, Lucy\u2019s narrow optimism, Mister Berg\u2019s rage at the ignorance around him, Bobby\u2019s disgust with his father, Sarah\u2019s attraction to both the excitement of Bobby and the warmth and solidity of Lucy. I felt at times that I was in that uncomfortable position of being able to access the secret thoughts and writings of those who are close, and finding out what they really think and feel. It is never as laudatory as one might hope. It was a creepy, voyeuristic experience. That Russo made me care that much about the characters offers proof of the effectiveness of his story-telling. Do I share Lucy\u2019s passivity? How about the passion of Bobby, the artistic leanings of Tess, Sarah and Bobby, the intellectual excitement that was stirred in Jerzy, both Mister Berg\u2019s rage against the night and his disinterest in certain passions of the flesh, the feelings of powerlessness to defend against the Bobbies of the world that Lucy and Big Lou must have felt, the need to get away that Bobby felt. While I may have grown up in the Bronx, it always felt to me like a Podunk town. Yet, maybe it is my destiny never to really escape from that place, regardless of where I live. Some do, some don\u2019t. Life sets us up pointed in a certain direction, and we can overcome that, but it takes a concerted effort and some good fortune. I liked the book a lot, although it felt a bit less satisfying than did Empire Falls. Still, this one is heartily recommended. ...more In Bridge of Sighs , Russo takes you into a small upstate American town, Thomaston, and inside the lives of the Lynch family. This story is over decades and is a story with many stories. He moves the text easily between the present and the past and the different characters. The key characters are the Lynch family; Lou (Big Lou) and Tessa, son Lou C (Lucy), his wife Sarah and Bobby Marconi latterly known as Robert Noonan. Lucy, now 60, is writing his memoir and it is through this medium we learn o In Bridge of Sighs , Russo takes you into a small upstate American town, Thomaston, and inside the lives of the Lynch family. This story is over decades and is a story with many stories. He moves the text easily between the present and the past and the different characters. The key characters are the Lynch family; Lou (Big Lou) and Tessa, son Lou C (Lucy), his wife Sarah and Bobby Marconi latterly known as Robert Noonan. Lucy, now 60, is writing his memoir and it is through this medium we learn of the early life of Big Lou and Tessa because as he says \u201cA chronologial approach is best\u201d. We follow their early life in the West End, the birth of Lucy, meet the Marconi's, Bobby, and the Lynch's move to the East End. Lou begins to change their fortunes by buying the run-down Ikey Lukins but Tessa is the economic brain: it is her ideas which result in the family's ultimate economic upturn. Perhaps Lucy's ongoing uneasy emotional relationship with Tessa is reflected here best. He resents that it is Tessa who turns the store around and paves their way financially; a role he may think his father owns. Bridge of Sighs is difficult to precis because it has many stories within a story and has so many characters. I found it interesting that Russo chooses to reflect the disparities of his Thomaston in the manner we see in so real many towns; east, the more affluent and west, the less. The town is bisected by the aptly named Division Street: to the east;The East End and The Boroughs, to the west: The West End and The Hill. Forty years ago, Thomaston's main economy came from the tannery; an industry that provided employment for most of the people of the West End. The tannery polluted the town's Cagoya Stream which ran daily in the colours the tannery used; red, yellow, blue. Thomaston is a town of many cancers and deaths for which the tannery is called into question and also regarding Lucy's 'spells': those blank periods of time where he appears to go off somewhere mentally: such 'spells' will remain with him for much of his life. Russo takes ordinary people, keeps them ordinary but still makes you want to read their story. He shows you a swathe of contrast in situations, characters and ethics. Russo has an incredible perception into people as revealed in the many characters and three generations of this novel. He shows the many intricacies of human relationships in his well-developed and very authentic characters. 4\u2605 ...more With over 500 pages, and multidimensional profiles covering school days through to later years, a great writer like Russo can give you plenty to chew on. What I appreciated most was the rich contrast in character attitudes. Is it better to be an optimist offering the benefit of the doubt even if naively, or a pessimist giving the detriment of the doubt even if unfairly? Two of the main characters were artists. This gave Russo the chance to use their works to help interpret the story. It also brou With over 500 pages, and multidimensional profiles covering school days through to later years, a great writer like Russo can give you plenty to chew on. What I appreciated most was the rich contrast in character attitudes. Is it better to be an optimist offering the benefit of the doubt even if naively, or a pessimist giving the detriment of the doubt even if unfairly? Two of the main characters were artists. This gave Russo the chance to use their works to help interpret the story. It also brought analogies to mind. What kind of pictures would the author draw if he ever traded his keyboard for a sketchpad? I suspect he\u2019d start with simple figures, then flesh them out with enough realism to see their true essence. Closer examination would reveal subtleties of tone and texture, with nary an affected flourish. Russo\u2019s writing is always clear and unobtrusive. His greatest strength, though, is his insight into people and how he leads us to know them, too. He\u2019s so good with the psychological descriptions that you may wonder whether the \u201cshow, don\u2019t tell\u201d rule was meant only for lesser lights than him, i.e., everyone else. A large part of the book focuses on two young guys who serve as the archetypes. They grow up in a fading industrial town in upstate New York \u2013 a crucible Russo\u2019s readers know well. This town has the East side, West side, rich side, and black side. To be honest, the locational determinism was overplayed this time. Other influences rang true, though. For instance, Lucy (as Lou C. was dubbed by his classmates) was very much his father\u2019s son. He had the same kind heart and magnanimous outlook as Big Lou. People-pleasing is the default when you\u2019re averse to confrontation. Bobby, his counterpart, was much harder and braver; and wise to the ways of the world. Backing down was never an option for him. Lucy and Bobby had distinct biases, but were often perceptive about the people around them and, more importantly, even if intermittently, about themselves. If you could combine them to average out their extremes, you\u2019d get a pretty decent meld as a result. The two main women in the story, Lucy\u2019s mom and Sarah, Lucy\u2019s girlfriend and friend of Bobby, were interesting, I thought. It was as though they were the judges in the contest between competing personality types and viewpoints. Fortunately, Russo gave them real lives and appealing traits so that you cared what judgments they made. I rate this one 4.51 stars, rounded to 5. Russo is almost always near the top of my list. I think Nobody\u2019s Fool (4.98 stars) is better \u2013 certainly funnier \u2013 but this has similar pleasures. You get to see it all so knowingly as these compelling stories are told. ...more Sixty-year old Lucy Lynch (Louis Charles Lynch) lived in Thomaston, New York, a small town, for forty years, and experienced an even smaller place early in his life when fellow schoolmates closed him up in a trunk and left him there. Instead of being afraid, he made peace with it, discovered the comfort in claustrophobia, thereby scaring the living daylights out of these young schoolmates. However, it would lead to inexplicable 'spells' for the rest of his life. This story starts off with Lucy wr Sixty-year old Lucy Lynch (Louis Charles Lynch) lived in Thomaston, New York, a small town, for forty years, and experienced an even smaller place early in his life when fellow schoolmates closed him up in a trunk and left him there. Instead of being afraid, he made peace with it, discovered the comfort in claustrophobia, thereby scaring the living daylights out of these young schoolmates. However, it would lead to inexplicable 'spells' for the rest of his life. This story starts off with Lucy writing down his childhood memories. Lou is a repressed, self-deceptive, happy man. An unexciting, if loyal and unwavering, companion to his wife. Writing his memoir is taking longer than he anticipated, because 'he underestimated the tug of the past, the intoxication of memory, the attraction of explaining myself to, well, myself. While Lou is sharing his memories with the reader, other voices is added as a back drop to his memories. Bobby Marconi is one of them and later his wife's voice is added nearer to the end of the tale. As Lou's memoir unfolds, the more it turns into something he did not anticipate. The events of senior year in high school would steal our innocence, after which the losses would commence, Sarah\u2019s father to disgrace; her mother to tragedy; Bobby, for us, at least, to Europe and fame; my father\u2026my father to malignancy. I meant to write it all because I believed my life to be a hopeful story with a happy ending, the sort my father would\u2019ve liked, where hard work and faith are rewarded, and the American virtues he most admired are triumphant. After all, Ikey\u2019s prospered in the end, vindicating what he\u2019d seen all along. As did our family. Sarah and I bought one of the houses on my father\u2019s old milk route in the Borough, just as he said I might one day, if that was what I wanted. She and I married, as he wished, and we\u2019ve had a son who\u2019s a good, gentle man. All of this, every word, is true. It\u2019s just not the whole truth, and I suppose that\u2019s another reason to leave my story as it stands. Now, today, after the Bridge of Sighs, if I continued to write, it would end up being the story of my betrayal of the woman who has saved my life not once but over and over again. A betrayal that began, I fear, with our marriage. The book centers around the visit to Italy. How it came about and what the consequences would have been. Lou was not ready to go, for various reasons. He felt threatened, his world ripped apart by the idea of leaving his town for the very first time in his life. The well-established rythm of their adult lives will soon be violently interrupted when he and his wife leaves for Italy. He first has to finish the lifestory he is busy writing. the dullest story ever told , according to him. His fear of the unknown prevents him from going to Italy with his wife Sarah. In fact, he has a militant aversion for everything Italian . Sarah is the one force-feeding him bits of information from the travelbooks she has gathered around her. Lucy lives a life in a stack of boxes, like Matryoshka Nesting Dolls. One fitting into the other. The smaller the box, the happier he is. Yet, the tale is also the family history of the Lynches, three generations, who owned three convenience stores, called 'the Lynch Empire' by Owen, Lucy's son. The tale starts out with Lucy (Lou) and expand to his family members, his friends, and then the entire town. There is an interesting mix of blood: Irish and Italian. There is paradox in almost every part of the story. For instance, the Cayoga Stream, flowing through the town, emptying into the Barge channel, five miles outside town, is both life giving and life taking. The dyes and chemicals in the water caused cancer, yet provided jobs to most people. When the stream was clear, the town was worried. No polution, meant no jobs and lay offs followed by hardship. A leather factory kept many people employed, but also left most of them sick from the polluted water resulting from the tanning process. The factory has been closed for forty years and the town is slowly dying. There are many autobiographical elements in the book. It was, sort of, obvious since the very beginning. The author and his mother is an omnipresent in the story. The female characters play an important role in the lay of the land. Both genders form the eccentric multifaceted building blocks of the narrative. It is clear from the insight into the female characters that the author had a special relationship with his own mother, an umbilical cord that never snapped. It enriches the story tremendously and brings a depth of color to the bucolic narrative, most often accentuating the dark corners of the female psyche. His mother suffered from bipolar disorder , as well as OCD and he had to take care of her since a very young age. Alternatively, the male characters are present in all aspects male - an exhibit of the good, bad and evil in the hamlet of Testosterone. Apart from that, there is also the character of Bobby, who is rougly based on the life of Robert Noonan, who wrote the famous book The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists under the pen name Robert Trussel. He grew up in Thomaston. The protagonist's character has a Norman Rockwell-feel - a complicated simplicity which is fascinating and captivating. Richard Russo is known for animating the interior lives of the burgs and hamlets of smalltown America. From the easy familiarity and security it can provide, to the eccentricities and cruelties it can spawn - Marcia Franklin in 'Dialogue' (Idaho Public Television). Mr. Russo also has a keen interest in the class system within the small town environment and manage to incorporate it into the towns, as characters, in his books. Small towns become the crucibles in which the poorest of the poor interact with the richest of the rich both in the positive and negative way. Since I was so aware of the autobiographical elements in the book, I went off to find more information on this compelling and compassionate writer. It doesn't often happen that the author demands more attention after being introduced to his stories for the first time. When I closed the book, I hopped onto the internet, discovering the author behind the complex and captivating saga. He created such complete people. Real people. He was born in Johnstown, and embedded his own experiences in the story, without giving his character a name. In fact, there is a little bit of himself in all the characters. His honesty is so refreshing. His insight into the human psyche is remarkable. While reading the story, I was thinking how great it would have been to be on the same level as this author as far as wisdom and attitude towards life is concerned. He understands the power of reading and how it changes lives. He was of the opinion that his mother cheated herself out of her own existence by becoming a voracious reader. She escaped depression and loneliness that way. It was a way out of being captured in a body and a mind she could not escape otherwise. She was literary enabled to live more than one life, while being jailed and caged not only in her own body, but also in a small town. With this information in mind, it is understandable why the book have so many interesting characters. The small-town environment not only provided a rich harvest of raw material, but also delivers enough challenges to build a great story. It is also reflected in the individuals in the book. Some have enormous challenges, but no resources to address them. They will not make it. Then there are the people who have these astonishingly privileged lives, without any challenges, which diminishes their moral scope. This book is my introduction to this author, and a great discovery. A rich and colorful landscape of America and its human investment. The only gripe I had was that it could have been shorter. The prose was excellent. I will read more books by this author for sure. ...more When I finished reading Richard Russo's wonderful novel Empire Falls (for which he won the Pulitzer), I wondered - how will this novelist do this again? Turns out, he just keeps getting better. One thing I've always admired about Russo is his ability to write about small towns in a way that honors the provincial nature of small town life while exploring all of its intricacies and nuances, its complexity and heartache - the way a person can live a wide life in the smallest of ponds. Perhaps this When I finished reading Richard Russo's wonderful novel Empire Falls (for which he won the Pulitzer), I wondered - how will this novelist do this again? Turns out, he just keeps getting better. One thing I've always admired about Russo is his ability to write about small towns in a way that honors the provincial nature of small town life while exploring all of its intricacies and nuances, its complexity and heartache - the way a person can live a wide life in the smallest of ponds. Perhaps this is because Russo understands that the human heart is the widest of oceans. In Bridge of Sighs, Russo explores another small town, in this case Thomaston, NY - but he widens his own palette with one of his small town characters moving away and living in Venice, Italy. Of course, a person can't escape his own heart, even when he changes geography. In all of his novels that I've read, Russo unfolds a story slowly and Bridge of Sighs is no different. Russo's patience as a novelist is perhaps his biggest asset. This is a novel to be savored, to be pondered. But what I find most remarkable about Russo is his ability to be unexpectedly profound. I told my husband that he is like the sweetest of sensibilities masked in a Budweiser and day old stubble. He is at once all rough edges and masculinity but also deeply sweet and emotive. His beauty is in the details, in the way he wraps this world around you with words and makes you take a long swim in this story alongside all these lives, all fully formed, all deeply complex, all flawed. No villains. No heroes. Ultimately, this is a novel of redemption and great sadness, of happiness in the small details that make up a life - the search for greatness within the smallness of ourselves. It's about finding our way. Of course, this all sneaks up on you. Russo infers in the novel that people seek \"a small, good thing\" - that this is what the human heart yearns for. That ultimately, a person's happiness often hinges on recognizing what this \"small, good thing\" is - and on letting it fill you up, sustain you. Letting it be enough. Well, Mr. Russo: One of my small, good things is reading a novel like yours for which I can marvel and be grateful. ...more Flashback to 1999: setting off on a 30-hour train ride between Halifax and London, ON, I pick up Russo's new novel Straight Man, on the recommendation of a bookseller friend. Enthralled all the way through the Maritimes and Quebec--laughing aloud in that half-empty compartment. Once in London, I pick up The Risk Pool and Nobody's Fool, two of Russo's earlier books. And love them, esp. Nobody's Fool, which must surely be Russo's best work. A few years later, in Ithaca, NY, I eagerly purchase his n Flashback to 1999: setting off on a 30-hour train ride between Halifax and London, ON, I pick up Russo's new novel Straight Man, on the recommendation of a bookseller friend. Enthralled all the way through the Maritimes and Quebec--laughing aloud in that half-empty compartment. Once in London, I pick up The Risk Pool and Nobody's Fool, two of Russo's earlier books. And love them, esp. Nobody's Fool, which must surely be Russo's best work. A few years later, in Ithaca, NY, I eagerly purchase his new book, Empire Falls. And enjoy it, though in a more muted way than the earlier books. Is Russo off his game? Or am I just not that into him anymore? Well, here's the follow-up, The Bridge of Sighs. And I read the whole damn thing, all 500-odd pages of it. Despite the fact that Russo here sidelines the kind of character who in his earlier works would have had center stage, and thus shows himself game to try something new, I have to say the book is a failure. Nice to see Russo writing about upstate New York again (though the bits in Venice are a bit painful), but the book feels nostalgic, self-satisfied and padded. I'm led again to wonder whether anyone edits anymore--the book could easily be 150 pp shorter. Disappointing. ...more There is a stone bridge in Venice, Italy they call the Bridge of Sighs. it connects the Doge's Palace in St. Mark's Square, where there are interrogation rooms, to an adjacent prison. Crossing this bridge, the convicts - at least the ones without money or influence - came to understand that all hope was lost. According to legend, their despairing sighs could be heard echoing in the neighboring canals. Strangely enough, I never felt that \"all hope was lost\" while reading this book. Quite the contr There is a stone bridge in Venice, Italy they call the Bridge of Sighs. it connects the Doge's Palace in St. Mark's Square, where there are interrogation rooms, to an adjacent prison. Crossing this bridge, the convicts - at least the ones without money or influence - came to understand that all hope was lost. According to legend, their despairing sighs could be heard echoing in the neighboring canals. Strangely enough, I never felt that \"all hope was lost\" while reading this book. Quite the contrary. Louis Charles Lynch was called Lucy all his life. The kindergarten teacher, calling the roll, called out Lou C. Lynch, he answered \"here\", and a student asked, \"his name is Lucy?\". We learn this because Lucy begins writing a memoir. As with every childhood, there is both joy and sadness. \" Bottomless need. What Miss Rosa didn't seem to understand was that this accurately described not only most children but also the scared child that lives, at least part of the time, deep inside most adults.\" about parents: \"You know all their secrets? What they're thinking? . . . Would you say you know them as well as you know yourself? . . . And how well would you say you know yourself?\" \"Is it better to love or be loved?\" Bridge of Sighs is a book that makes you look inward, to search yourself. And when you do, you're likely to come back feeling much better about yourself. ...more This is the story of Lou C. Lynch (aka Lucy, unfortunately) who grew up in upstate New York before Civil Rights and the women's movement. The setting and the characters will remind you of Russo's previous work Empire Falls, again borrowing from his own biography. As Lou and his wife Sarah prepare for a trip to Italy, he is remembering the childhood friend whom they hope to visit... also recalling his very average, very middle class childhood, going from life in the rough and gritty West End part This is the story of Lou C. Lynch (aka Lucy, unfortunately) who grew up in upstate New York before Civil Rights and the women's movement. The setting and the characters will remind you of Russo's previous work Empire Falls, again borrowing from his own biography. As Lou and his wife Sarah prepare for a trip to Italy, he is remembering the childhood friend whom they hope to visit... also recalling his very average, very middle class childhood, going from life in the rough and gritty West End part of town to the better-but-not-quite-made-it-yet East End. The interactions with people from all walks of life are a constant reminder of where their place once was and could be again, if dealt a bad hand. The parallel story of Lou's old friend adds another dimension, and we see the value of longtime friendships. Russo is expert at delving into the dynamics of relationships, and, especially in the books that I have read, mother-son relationships. Usually I have detested his mother figures whom the sons seemed to patiently endure. Here I really liked his mother a lot--a strong, sensible woman; but Lou empathized more with his father, a sweet gentle soul who was either incapable of making a decision or always seemed to make them poorly. As others pine to get out of town, Lucy is perfectly content and has spent all of his 60 years there. I was glad to have shared some time there these last several days that it took to listen to the book. It did feel drawn out toward the end, and in a book concentrating on the minutia of small town America, it is a risk to go on so long. Despite my thinking there was too much minutia, Russo still delivers, throwing in some surprises, although nothing earth shattering. ...more I was a little apprehensive about this book after reading the press it received. I knew I would enjoy it, but I seeing that involved a middle-aged man reflecting on his life in a dying New England town, I feared a retread of Empire Falls. I couldn't have been more wrong. Many of the elements you would expect from Russo are there, the quiet politics of small towns, the relationship between parents and children and even the tainted river are all present. But Russo expands on these and builds them i I was a little apprehensive about this book after reading the press it received. I knew I would enjoy it, but I seeing that involved a middle-aged man reflecting on his life in a dying New England town, I feared a retread of Empire Falls. I couldn't have been more wrong. Many of the elements you would expect from Russo are there, the quiet politics of small towns, the relationship between parents and children and even the tainted river are all present. But Russo expands on these and builds them into an amazing work, which may be his very best. The story focuses on three friends in a small upstate New York town. In many ways, it is a coming of age story twice-over. We gradually see how they grow up and grow together, but this is told as all three of them deal with their changing lives entering their 60s. In many ways, Lou's tale reminds me less of Empire Falls, as I had feared, and more of John Irving's Until I Find You. In the beginning of the book, he is setting out to recount his childhood. We learn through the involvement of his best friend and future wife, as they recount their lives, that what he remembers as a child is largely a matter of perception. As opposed to Irving's manner of portraying the same idea by telling the story of a childhood, and then going back through it a second time with the main character learning the truth, Russo builds the revelations almost seamlessly into the story. One of the most important themes of the book is what we take away from our parents and our relationship with them. Do we know who are parents are? Do we slowly become them? What do we take from them? Each of the central characters is faced through their young lives with elements\u2013sometimes contrary ones\u2013of their parents personas, and for each of them, the growth of the story is reconciling this as adults. ...more This might be my longest review ever. Here we go, in bullet points... 1. I like Russo's work a lot, esp. Straight Man, Nobody's Fool, and Risk Pool. Nobody writes about rundown small towns better than Russo. In the three books already mentioned Russo doesn't overshoot his purpose; he's funny and psychologically incisive without becoming ponderous, although he can be rightfully accused of painting a rosier picture than his settings warrant. Bridge of Sighs, also set in a small town, aims higher an This might be my longest review ever. Here we go, in bullet points... 1. I like Russo's work a lot, esp. Straight Man, Nobody's Fool, and Risk Pool. Nobody writes about rundown small towns better than Russo. In the three books already mentioned Russo doesn't overshoot his purpose; he's funny and psychologically incisive without becoming ponderous, although he can be rightfully accused of painting a rosier picture than his settings warrant. Bridge of Sighs, also set in a small town, aims higher and sometimes (but not always) succeeds. 2. Bridge of Sighs, a fairly long book (642 pages), interweaves many characters and multiple generations. Russo is particularly strong with secrets and the ways in which individuals discover their own truths over longer periods of time. He also tackles artistic processes, particularly painting, as insights into the minds of some characters' evolution. 3. I sometimes think Russo will be the kind of guy read in colleges 100 years from now when people want to learn about America in the early part of this century. The possibility has pros and cons. I think Russo does an excellent job with his subject matter but some metaphors slap you in the face. I can see some bored book club housewife jumping up and down saying \"This means THAT! Oh, I get it!\" So I can recommend Bridge of Sighs if you can handle Russo's sentimental side. He writes well about subjects (e.g. families, communities, etc.) that hipper writers won't touch unless it's in an ironic, detached manner, and he deserves credit for his work and sensitivity. However, if you've never read Russo before, I'd probably start with one of his earlier (and shorter) books to see if he's your thing. ...more The Bridge of Sighs is one long-ass bridge. I suppose once you win a Pulitzer Prize, you don't have to submit to pesky things like editing. In this case, though, it would have been beneficial. The book was too long, and weirdly repetitive. I still dig Russo's writing, for the most part, and the way he can describe all the unspoken things that go on within people's relationships. That's amazing. But I was done with the book about 200 pages before he was. I finished, but only because I had some fo The Bridge of Sighs is one long-ass bridge. I suppose once you win a Pulitzer Prize, you don't have to submit to pesky things like editing. In this case, though, it would have been beneficial. The book was too long, and weirdly repetitive. I still dig Russo's writing, for the most part, and the way he can describe all the unspoken things that go on within people's relationships. That's amazing. But I was done with the book about 200 pages before he was. I finished, but only because I had some fondness for the characters and wanted to see what happened to them, not because I was relishing the book anymore. In particular, Sarah's journey that starts in the chapter called \"The Blue Door\" was really annoying to me -- it felt very Oprah's book-club-ish, not in keeping with the rest of the book. Anyway, I'm glad I'm done. ...more Reading this book is like slipping on your favorite pair of jeans- the ones you never wash to keep them perfect softly and loose, donning a beloved sweatshirt and thinking \"I wish I lived the sort of life that I could wear these clothes every day...\" Meaning that (if you like Russo, of course) these characters, this setting, the storyline are so comforting and familiar- it's like coming home. Which isn't to say that there aren't surprises, that it isn't fresh, nuanced and captivating. It's a been Reading this book is like slipping on your favorite pair of jeans- the ones you never wash to keep them perfect softly and loose, donning a beloved sweatshirt and thinking \"I wish I lived the sort of life that I could wear these clothes every day...\" Meaning that (if you like Russo, of course) these characters, this setting, the storyline are so comforting and familiar- it's like coming home. Which isn't to say that there aren't surprises, that it isn't fresh, nuanced and captivating. It's a been a definite page turner for me- only work and the other vagaries of life have kept me from finishing it over the weekend. ...more I really love Richard Russo and really enjoyed this book but felt it went on a little too long at the end -- like a good friend who you love to spend time with but who stays maybe a day longer than he should because as much as you love him you've got work to do. And yet, you can hardly be too upset because this friend says things like:\"[T]here is, despite our wild imaginings, only one life. The ghostly others, no matter how real they seem, no matter how badly we need them, are phantoms. The one I really love Richard Russo and really enjoyed this book but felt it went on a little too long at the end -- like a good friend who you love to spend time with but who stays maybe a day longer than he should because as much as you love him you've got work to do. And yet, you can hardly be too upset because this friend says things like:\"[T]here is, despite our wild imaginings, only one life. The ghostly others, no matter how real they seem, no matter how badly we need them, are phantoms. The one life we're left with is sufficient to fill and refill our imperfect hearts with joy, and then to shatter them. And it never, ever lets up. Blame love.\" I thought it was interesting that both this book and Ann Patchett's latest, Run , which both came out around the same time, feature a young black girl who has a talent for running and who is adopted by older white folks. A strange coincidence, I thought. Russo's is by far the better book when compared to Run , but not nearly as good as Russo's own Straight Man or Empire Falls . ...more BRIDGE OF IMPRISONMENT Is this what Richard Russo is trying to tell us in picking out the title of this book? Are you also someone who tries to analyze the title of each book you read as I do? Built in the 16th century in Venice, The Bridge of Sighs is the last thing a prisoner walks over before reaching his cell. The idea behind the name is that the last view a convict sees before imprisonment is a beautiful Venetian canal which must cause him to sigh at its beauty, never to be seen again until BRIDGE OF IMPRISONMENT Is this what Richard Russo is trying to tell us in picking out the title of this book? Are you also someone who tries to analyze the title of each book you read as I do? Built in the 16th century in Venice, The Bridge of Sighs is the last thing a prisoner walks over before reaching his cell. The idea behind the name is that the last view a convict sees before imprisonment is a beautiful Venetian canal which must cause him to sigh at its beauty, never to be seen again until said prisoner is released -- if ever. The setting of this book is not Venice but Thomaston, New York, site of a prosperous tannery in post-war America but now, many years later, is a company that polluted the Cayoga Stream. The main character is Lou C. (Lucy) Lynch and Russo tells us, right off the bat, that Lucy has never left Thomaston in all his sixty years. Unlike the prisoners in Venice, Lucy is certainly not a prisoner, although it could be viewed, that he is, in fact, a prisoner of his own choosing in a town he just can't leave. Russo is so great at writing about small town America and living the American dream. He's right up there for me with my other favorite authors, Pat Conroy and John Irving. Some might complain that there's too much prose and not enough dialogue in his books but, for this reader, I could read Russo's prose all day long. In Bridge of Sighs, the story is told from the point of view of two narrators, Lucy Lynch and Bobby Marconi. After three hundred pages, Russo decides to give another point of view in the voice of Sarah Berg, Lucy's future wife. I don't usually like when an author does this but, in this case, it works and it works well. I love when an author has one of his characters writing a book about his own life because it makes it easy for him to easily offer a glimpse of his past life and, in this case, that of the town as well. In Lucy's past life, we come to understand all the workings of the Lynch family, a family who can only be admired for their pursuit of the American dream. While Lucy's father is the eternal optimist and Lucy's mother the eternal realist, their son is tried and true like his father and refuses to believe that there can be bad in the world. Perhaps this is the reason he never leaves his hometown. Unlike Lucy, Bobby Marconi does leave and becomes a famous artist in Venice. My one complaint here is, in doing so, he changes his name to Robert Noonan (his mother's maiden name) and I could never justify this change in my head and couldn't relate to Bobby as Robert. Of course, the choice of Venice brings us back to that famous Bridge of Sighs as Bobby has been released from the hold of Thomaston while his boyhood friend Lucy still remains. I could analyze Bridge of Sighs until I'm blue in the face but then I'd feel like I'm writing yet another English paper. I highly recommend this book as I would highly recommend any Richard Russo book. I felt very invested in all the characters and did let out a sigh of my own when I had finished the book.....a sigh that meant I was sad that I wasn't going to be spending any more time with the indomitable Lynch's. So I guess, in essence, I walked over my own Bridge of Sighs in finishing this book. ...more This is Russo's best book. He does a couple things in this book that are impressive on both a technical and human level. That Russo can lovingly create deep and human characters has been established in all of his novels. What's truly amazing about Bridge of Sighs is the amount of depth he gives to nearly every character in the book. At the beginning of the novel we see the story from the perspective of only a couple characters. During this time, many of the characters seem predictable and shallow, This is Russo's best book. He does a couple things in this book that are impressive on both a technical and human level. That Russo can lovingly create deep and human characters has been established in all of his novels. What's truly amazing about Bridge of Sighs is the amount of depth he gives to nearly every character in the book. At the beginning of the novel we see the story from the perspective of only a couple characters. During this time, many of the characters seem predictable and shallow, conveniently slotted into the traditional roles of good guy, bad guy, supporting cast, etc. As the novel moves on the perspective changes and the reader is forced to change the way they think about nearly every person as we learn more and more about them. It seems like Russo truly cares for every one of his characters and wants the reader to as well. He wants to make sure, however, that you know what you're getting into by loving these people, so there flaws are clearly displayed. Bridge of Sighs is, at it's core, a psychological novel. The character's motives for their actions and their reaction to events are the heart and soul of the novel. The major plot points are often recounted several at a time in single paragraphs, while the build-ups and aftermaths have entire chapters devoted to them. In spite of this fact, Russo manages to make this novel compelling enough that you'll not want to stop reading. One of the recurring theme's in Russo's work is the creation of characters. We create a role for ourselves through choices that we make on a daily basis. In the end we wind up somewhere we'd have never imagined, playing a role we'd never dreamed. Russo manages to embrace the beauty and peace-of-mind that playing such a role brings us, and at the same time remind us that stepping out of our roles is often the best way to truly be ourselves. ...more This was my first Russo novel and won't be the last. Sometimes the dynamic of a family in a small town makes for the some of the most interesting stories. In the beginning, it is teased that the main action of the story may move to Venice (as the title implies), but that never really happens. This story is about a small town in New York, and the coming of age (and old age) of Louis C. (\"Lucy\") Lynch. It's also about his wife, his best friend, his parents, small town prejudices, and how love is co This was my first Russo novel and won't be the last. Sometimes the dynamic of a family in a small town makes for the some of the most interesting stories. In the beginning, it is teased that the main action of the story may move to Venice (as the title implies), but that never really happens. This story is about a small town in New York, and the coming of age (and old age) of Louis C. (\"Lucy\") Lynch. It's also about his wife, his best friend, his parents, small town prejudices, and how love is complicated by other feelings. How unresolved ambiguities are part of life. How life is bittersweet and all the more worth it for that reason. Russo understands all of his characters on a deep level, and makes sure that we do too. By the time you finish this book, there are no villains, and everyone has taken his or her shot at being a hero. Like Lou's mother, Tessa, we see both the bad and the good in all the characters, and love them anyway. That's the way it should be. Tip for fans of Pat Conroy: Richard Russo is probably right up your alley. Reading this novel, with its depiction of small city life, prompted me to give my son a driving tour of my home town, East Liverpool, Ohio yesterday after our workout. I don't know if my ramblings and looking at the much-changed city helped him imagine what it was like to grow up there, but I made the attempt. ...more I am a huge fan of Richard Russo, so I wanted to love this one. Although, as usual, Russo paints a vivid picture of small town life, somehow the story never grabbed me. Centered on Lou \"Lucy\" Lynch, a typical Russo lovable loser, we hear the story of his life in a class-conscious upstate New York town. We also get snippets of the life of his best friend, a painter in Venice who escaped the small town. But the story, while solidly told, is never particularly moving. Nothing much happens, and ther I am a huge fan of Richard Russo, so I wanted to love this one. Although, as usual, Russo paints a vivid picture of small town life, somehow the story never grabbed me. Centered on Lou \"Lucy\" Lynch, a typical Russo lovable loser, we hear the story of his life in a class-conscious upstate New York town. We also get snippets of the life of his best friend, a painter in Venice who escaped the small town. But the story, while solidly told, is never particularly moving. Nothing much happens, and there is not much growth in Lou, despite our following him from early youth to late in life. He starts out an amiable, but gullible kid, and grows into an amiable but gullible adult. The triangle that develops between his first love and best friend (arguably his *real* first love) could have been interesting but somehow, sadly, isn't. I will be waiting for Russo's next novel, and maybe re-reading my early favorite The Risk Pool . ...more Oh my STARS!!!!!!!! I am finally done -- thank GOD. This is the longest book in the history of mankind. It was good, but not good enough to read every single word. No one REALLY cares about EVERY SINGLE thought and EVERY SINGLE memory of EVERY SINGLE CHARACTER. OH MY GOD. I honestly skimmed the last 30 pages; I couldn't take it anymore. I AM SO GLAD IT IS OVER. what is it about these apparently ordinary people that would make anyone persist in believing them to be extraordinary? and they are. that's really the meat and bones of the story. i urge you to read it if you have the time, interest, and patience. some favorite passages/quotes: \"The middle, she said, was the real America, the America that mattered, the America that was worth fighting wars to defend. There was just the one problem with being in the fluid middle. You could move up, as we had done, what is it about these apparently ordinary people that would make anyone persist in believing them to be extraordinary? and they are. that's really the meat and bones of the story. i urge you to read it if you have the time, interest, and patience. some favorite passages/quotes: \"The middle, she said, was the real America, the America that mattered, the America that was worth fighting wars to defend. There was just the one problem with being in the fluid middle. You could move up, as we had done, but you could also move down. I still remember how much this upset me. It was our family I wanted to succeed, not me. There wasn't supposed to be any limit to the benefits of hard work and honesty, and her saying there were limits implied that she didn't believe in America, or worse, in us.\" - Lou C. Lynch, p. 55 \"odd how we misremember the events of childhood, not just the sequence, but also the cause and effect.\u201d \u2013p. 73 \u201codd, how our view of human destiny changes over the course of a lifetime. In youth we believe what the young believe, that life is all choice.\u201d \u2013p. 129 \u201cArt, he\u2019d come to believe, was little more than the principle of one thing leading to another, whereas love, insofar as he understood it, depended on a thing remaining forever what it was, which in Noonan\u2019s experience it militantly refused to do. What people called love was the perfect recipe for disappointment and recrimination at the benign end of the emotional spectrum, homicide at the malignant end.\u201d \u2013 Bobby Noonan, p. 141 \u201cWhy did they feel it necessary to repeat themselves, to stake out the same positions time after time? Would I become like that when I got older, retracing my steps over and over, unaware that I was doing so, or worse, not caring?\u201d \u2013 p.171 \u201call human events lead to other human events. There are a great many sins in the world, none of them original.\u201d \u2013p.175 \u201cafter all, how does one invalidate a powerful feeling? Not with logic, surely.\u201d \u2013p.257 \u201cI\u2019m not trying to own my life, just acknowledge it, as well as the narrative of our family, it\u2019s small significant journey. Is this not an American tale? Are we not the most typical of postwar Americans? That\u2019s how my father would see it, so of course it makes sense that my mother would adopt the opposite view\u201d \u2013p. 263 \u201cthis time we\u2019ll go. We will leave this small, good world behind us with the comfort of knowing it\u2019ll be here when we return. But. We will go.\u201d \u2013p.527 ...more I loved it! First book by Mr Russo and it was in a word wonderful. What a way with characters this author has! I loved each and every one of them. It was so very different from the previous character driven novel (Truly, Madly, Guilty) I read which bored me to tears. Goal for 2017 read more of his novels.... (My full review of this book is much longer than GoodReads' word-count limitations. Find the entire essay at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) As regular readers know, artistic criticism is something fairly new to me (or at least regular artistic criticism is), with the entire thing being as much of a learning process for me as it often is for you; and of all the new things I am learning about the subject these days, one of the most surprising is of just how st (My full review of this book is much longer than GoodReads' word-count limitations. Find the entire essay at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) As regular readers know, artistic criticism is something fairly new to me (or at least regular artistic criticism is), with the entire thing being as much of a learning process for me as it often is for you; and of all the new things I am learning about the subject these days, one of the most surprising is of just how strongly our opinion of a project is influenced by which station in life we ourselves are at when coming across it. For example, as someone who tries to heavily cover the field of \"indie lit\" or \"underground lit\" or whatever you want to call it, I am of course constantly coming across novels designed to appeal primarily to those in their twenties, full of gimmicks and pop-culture references and other signs of its young demographics; and every time I come across one of these books, I always think about how much more it would've appealed to me at the age of 23 then it currently does at 38, and how what I write about it is heavily influenced by that. What I'm learning, in fact, is that the best critics must learn how to balance this subject when it comes to their finished essays -- that the most effective reviews are the ones that can take all kinds of different audience attitudes in mind while still acknowledging the biases of that specific reviewer, without apologizing for either aspect but rather trying to synthesize the two as much as possible. A very good example of what I'm talking about, in fact, can be seen in today's novel under review, former Pulitzer winner Richard Russo's latest hefty saga about small-town life, Bridge of Sighs ; because let's make it clear right off the bat, that this is a slow-moving academic-friendly novel about a bunch of old people in a rural east-coast environment, who spend most of their time sitting around and thinking about old-person stuff, a novel that if I had come across in my early twenties would've been highly tempted to scoff at and roll my eyes. Now that I'm in the lower rungs of middle-age, however, I found myself a lot more intrigued; I ended up liking the book quite a bit, to tell you the truth, although acknowledge that it has some serious flaws when it comes to the plotting of the overall storyline (but more on that in a bit). And what's even more, I can tell that I'm not even the main target audience to begin with -- that in actuality, this novel is primarily designed to appeal to people in their fifties and sixties, those just entering the winter of their lives for the first time, naturally obsessed with looking over the whole of their adulthoods, ruminating on where things went right and where they went wrong. And so that leads to an intriguing question -- that as a guy just now entering his forties, with a huge section of readership in their twenties and thirties, what exactly should I say about a book like this? Do I recommend it but with an asterisk? Do I suggest skipping it but with a caveat? Sheesh, who knew that being an artistic critic was such a hard job?! I guess, then, let's start with this, that Russo is in fact precisely known for gentle slow-moving ruminations on small-town life; that's what his Pulitzer-winning novel was about as well, after all, 2001's Empire Falls , as well as... ...more I feel like I just sat down to the table, hungry, and in front of me is placed fried chicken and mashed potatoes. It tastes wonderful and fills me up. The characters that Russo creates in Bridge of Sighs and all of the other novels of his that I have read are comfortable and familiar. I have never been to upstate New York. I grew up in a city, not a small town. But somehow I can relate the places that Russo creates as if they were my own. Lucy and Sarah, Lou Lou and Tessa, and Bobby: Russo makes I feel like I just sat down to the table, hungry, and in front of me is placed fried chicken and mashed potatoes. It tastes wonderful and fills me up. The characters that Russo creates in Bridge of Sighs and all of the other novels of his that I have read are comfortable and familiar. I have never been to upstate New York. I grew up in a city, not a small town. But somehow I can relate the places that Russo creates as if they were my own. Lucy and Sarah, Lou Lou and Tessa, and Bobby: Russo makes them real because they are not perfect. Neither are they unique, but that is okay too. I fall into the world he creates and reside there for the duration. Their imperfections make my imperfections acceptable and more understandable. But just like a meal of fried chicken and mashed potatoes is not memorable, Bridge of Sighs is not completely satisfying. Comfort food, at least for me, never will be. ...more Hmm. Well, Empire Falls this was not - it lacked the freshness and colorful characters and small town charm, though Russo tried valiantly to capture that in this book - it just felt flat to me somehow, like he knew that he was supposed to be incorporating that but it just wasn't working. The book was readable and at times engrossing, I can't say I wouldn't recommend it, but I had some issues with it. For one thing, Russo would have some insightful turns of phrase and then make sure to explain wha Hmm. Well, Empire Falls this was not - it lacked the freshness and colorful characters and small town charm, though Russo tried valiantly to capture that in this book - it just felt flat to me somehow, like he knew that he was supposed to be incorporating that but it just wasn't working. The book was readable and at times engrossing, I can't say I wouldn't recommend it, but I had some issues with it. For one thing, Russo would have some insightful turns of phrase and then make sure to explain what he meant in the next sentence which is something I personally hate. Some of his cute little coincidences really felt like a stretch to me, and some of the squabbles of the characters either grated on my nerves or just seemed over the top. It was interesting seeing how memory plays tricks on his characters and how the characters change depending on whose telling the story, but at the same time I felt that whenever Russo switched to modern day big city life as opposed to his specialty there was a distinct lack of smoothness in the writing. I remember feeling in EF that at times the pithy one liners that ended every chapter and conversation were hard to really believe - like how come EVERYONE is so sharp when they need to be ... that was true at times here as well ... I guess overall I am nitpicking because the book simply didn't grab me. It was very, very long and while it passed some serious bus time coming back from Washington, which I did appreciate, it definitely did not leave me with that feeling that EF did. Anyway khay I am happy to pass this one on to you to see if you find it more successful - I would be curious, because I could see this book going either way. ...more As usual, Russo sticks to the proverbial ribs. That is, for me anyway, his stories stay with me. I find myself thinking about the characters long after I've finished the book in question & 'Bridge' is no exception. Russo's greatest strength is an ability to create detailed, unique and real characters and there are many here. Spanning decades, various stories unfold, featuring a complex crossover of characters and episodes. It's a treat indeed to glimpse one incident from the perspectives of As usual, Russo sticks to the proverbial ribs. That is, for me anyway, his stories stay with me. I find myself thinking about the characters long after I've finished the book in question & 'Bridge' is no exception. Russo's greatest strength is an ability to create detailed, unique and real characters and there are many here. Spanning decades, various stories unfold, featuring a complex crossover of characters and episodes. It's a treat indeed to glimpse one incident from the perspectives of participants and simple observers. It's one of two core themes, I think. A life in retrospect is something different depending on who you ask and judgments about that life vary equally as well. The other resounding theme in 'Bridge' considers the choices we make in life with consequences both expected and not. A seemingly simple choice, Russo reminds us, can alter our life's course and that of those with whom we are enmeshed. Sharing the stage in the primary roles are the members of three families: the Lynches, Marconis and Bergs. The narration alternates between the only Lynch & Berg children and the eldest Marconi - picking up around the elementary school relationship between Lou Lynch & Bobby Marconi (and those of their parents) and adding Sarah Berg and family to the mix around Junior High. Tricky and complicated relationships, these. Ultimately they provide a wonderful backdrop for a story of stories about everyday people in a small town who remind us that average is in the eye of the beholder. Happy Bday to me! A book by a favorite author from a favorite friend. This will be next... ...more brilliant... absolutely brilliant... russo is very nearly the most important american novelist currently working... this book is all about the vertiginous... the deep disorientation and confusion that results from exposure to two very different points of view... this concept is explored in so many compelling ways through the juxtaposition of black and white, hope to despair, love to hate... the idea is made that much more complex by the notion of equivocation...the act of attempting to find and establ brilliant... absolutely brilliant... russo is very nearly the most important american novelist currently working... this book is all about the vertiginous... the deep disorientation and confusion that results from exposure to two very different points of view... this concept is explored in so many compelling ways through the juxtaposition of black and white, hope to despair, love to hate... the idea is made that much more complex by the notion of equivocation...the act of attempting to find and establish an equilibrium between two vertiginous elements... these notions come to full bloom in the image of the bridge of sighs, the italian archetype for the death of hope... prisoners were lead over the bridge, which still exists in venice, to the prison on the other side never to see the light of day again... russo, like his artistic characters, deftly sketches out characterizations that explore the convoluted implications behind the bridge of sighs: who stands on the side of hope, who stands on the side of despair, and who equivocates in the middle ground between the two... it is an amazing achievement... the complex simplicity of this book, as with russo's other work, also strikes me... the text shifts constantly in time from past to present and moves through every POV you can think of, from first person present to third person, all seamlessly and with little to no discernible speed bumps... toni morrison 's new book comes out in november... it seems to me she has a competitor for america's finest contemporary novelist... ...more Some say this is a novel about the American Dream, some say this is a novel about how families mold us into who we are. Russo supplies enough to make these cases and more. But the most compelling theme in Bridge of Sighs is regret; or, as Russo puts it at least twice, \"Is it more important to love or be loved?\" Many layers of this question permeate throughout, the most interesting variation to me essentially asked which is more important given that people don\u2019t change? Framed with the context of Some say this is a novel about the American Dream, some say this is a novel about how families mold us into who we are. Russo supplies enough to make these cases and more. But the most compelling theme in Bridge of Sighs is regret; or, as Russo puts it at least twice, \"Is it more important to love or be loved?\" Many layers of this question permeate throughout, the most interesting variation to me essentially asked which is more important given that people don\u2019t change? Framed with the context of marriage, sex, friendship, careers and, somewhat awkwardly, race and socioeconomic status, characters struggles are revealed by introspectively rehashing of their past. The problem is that for every brilliant and moving passage in this novel there is maybe one and a half that seem inauthentic. This is my first go at Russo and was drawn to what critics described as a knack for painting small-town life. On this point I agree. But something about of the characters' reminiscences and interactions didn't seem human, or at least endearingly so. Also, I felt that after building an engaging enough story to pull me 445 pages into it, Russo releases all the pressure and we're left with a foamy, inglorious end. ...more Russo's story is set in a small, decaying town. His main characters include decent, ineffective men who are trapped there, and smarter women who see the town for what it is, but are equally trapped. He's worked this territory before, and in my opinion, better in other books. An editor could have tightened up the prose and made this an outstanding story. Even so, the story still drew me in, and sometimes I couldn't put it down. Two boyhood friends are now 60 years old. The narrative shifts betwee Russo's story is set in a small, decaying town. His main characters include decent, ineffective men who are trapped there, and smarter women who see the town for what it is, but are equally trapped. He's worked this territory before, and in my opinion, better in other books. An editor could have tightened up the prose and made this an outstanding story. Even so, the story still drew me in, and sometimes I couldn't put it down. Two boyhood friends are now 60 years old. The narrative shifts between their current status and flashbacks to their youth. One adored his father and lives in the past, while the other despised his father and renounced his past. They both were crazy about the same girl, who (at age 18) was trying to decide between them. Their fates are fairly well deteremined at age 18. The characters are set up to be stark contrasts to one another, but they are interesting, multidimensional people. The themes include playing it safe versus taking risks, the complexities of our relationships, and the way our families and surroundings influence us throughout our lives. ...more This is the type of book that, had I had the luxury of not having to do a damn thing other than read, I would have read this in a day or two. It's so easy to find something engrossing about his characters, both good and bad. As it was, I read this book in between trips since it's too big to fit in my carry-on luggage, so I've managed to drag it out for some time. Now that I'm finished, I'm only sorry about that. I feel like I've just walked away from an old friend knowing that I'll never see the This is the type of book that, had I had the luxury of not having to do a damn thing other than read, I would have read this in a day or two. It's so easy to find something engrossing about his characters, both good and bad. As it was, I read this book in between trips since it's too big to fit in my carry-on luggage, so I've managed to drag it out for some time. Now that I'm finished, I'm only sorry about that. I feel like I've just walked away from an old friend knowing that I'll never see them again. But, that's Russo's magic. Every day in Russo's narrative world has all the ingredients to make it captivatingly comfortable. ...more Bridge of Sighs by Richard Russo - the latest book from one of my most favorite authors. This is, by far, his darkest novel. Much like his other novels, this story takes place in a small town in upstate New York and revolves around a handful of families who live there. The character development in this book really can't be beat, and I loved getting to know all of the characters and feeling for them after I was done reading. At first, I wasn't too impressed with the ending, but the more I have th Bridge of Sighs by Richard Russo - the latest book from one of my most favorite authors. This is, by far, his darkest novel. Much like his other novels, this story takes place in a small town in upstate New York and revolves around a handful of families who live there. The character development in this book really can't be beat, and I loved getting to know all of the characters and feeling for them after I was done reading. At first, I wasn't too impressed with the ending, but the more I have thought about, it did end pretty perfectly. A lot of the themes came full circle and joined beginning to end just right. To me, the story was largely about each character's willingness to take chances throughout his or her live. In this case, the risk-takers lose. The ones who settle into the mold they are poured into and do not break out of it, are the ones who survive. Bobby/Noonan, Sarah's mom, and Three Mock all take great risks during their lives just to end up dead right before they may experience the rewards they'll gain as a result of taking their risks. Lucy, Sarah, and even Perry end up living long, fulfilling (for the most part) lives by refusing to break out of the molds that their parents had poured them into, whether they wanted to or not. But who really wins? The people that die young, but live richer lives by taking great risks (and are there lives really \"richer\")? Or the people who settle and live longer in mediocrity and constant desire to have more? This book left me not knowing the answer, but seeing the benefits and detriments to both types of lives. ...more<---C>Richard Russo</---C>", "Title": "Bridge of Sighs"},
