{"Comments": "My favourite Pratchett novel, but I'm not really sure why. I think that Sam Vimes' being in it definitely helps: I think my favourite \"series\" in the Discworld novels are the City Watch series (<---B>along with the witches of Lancre and Death</---B>). His character arc really comes to a head in this one, even though he still has another level to go to in Thud! I also think that time travel being in it also definitely helps. Though not the quantum, metaphysical, zany fun of Thief of Time (though Lu Tze makes an My favourite Pratchett novel, but I'm not really sure why. I think that Sam Vimes' being in it definitely helps: I think my favourite \"series\" in the Discworld novels are the City Watch series (along with the witches of Lancre and Death). His character arc really comes to a head in this one, even though he still has another level to go to in Thud! I also think that time travel being in it also definitely helps. Though not the quantum, metaphysical, zany fun of Thief of Time (though Lu Tze makes an appearance), this trip through the Trousers of Time is meaningful, poignant, even tragic. Oh. I think this was the first Discworld novel to make me cry. I don't cry a lot when I read: rarely do I even get weepy. Discworld always, always makes me laugh (a lot); it makes me want to write, wonder, think, grin, ponder, mull, and all that... but this book was the first to make me cry. I think this is the first Discworld novel in which I really realized that Pratchett is who I want to be as a writer. <+++>Night Watch</+++> is funny, yes...<---F> it's fantasy, yes</---F>... but it's more than that. It's human. It tells a story of being human. Pratchett has some great characters with great arcs (like Moist in Going Postal ),<---M> and he has some epic</---M>, meaty stories (like Thud! ) with so much behind them you can hardly breathe... but Sam Vimes, in <+++>Night Watch</+++> , is about as truly human as Pratchett gets. And that is probably why this is my favourite Discworld novel. ...more from my blog at https://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2015/... Thud! Thud! In one timeline, that\u2019s the name of another Pratchett Discworld novel (the 34th, apparently). Thud! In another, that\u2019s the sound of me marching to my own drum. In yet another, that\u2019s the sound the vegetables thrown by my book-loving friends make when they hit my hard head. Because, honestly, this was in between the \u201cokay\u201d and \u2018liked it\u201d kind of read for me. Given my GR friend average rating of 4.52, I\u2019m missing something. Most likely from my blog at https://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2015/... Thud! Thud! In one timeline, that\u2019s the name of another Pratchett Discworld novel (the 34th, apparently). Thud! In another, that\u2019s the sound of me marching to my own drum. In yet another, that\u2019s the sound the vegetables thrown by my book-loving friends make when they hit my hard head. Because, honestly, this was in between the \u201cokay\u201d and \u2018liked it\u201d kind of read for me. Given my GR friend average rating of 4.52, I\u2019m missing something. Most likely, it is books one through five in the Night Watch sub-series of Discworld. I did read at least two Vines books, Men at Arms, and possibly Feet of Clay. Or maybe it was that other timeline, because it was a really, really long time ago, and Vines was almost all I remembered (remember, I told you: \u201cI often have only foggy details stored.\u201d) Night Watch : A Discworld novel in which guardsman Sam Vines learns that Time Travel is Confusing. Currently a Baron, with time occupied more by meetings than by feeling the city stones beneath his feet, Sam Vines is thrown back into history as he attempts to catch a serial killer. In an unusual twist, Vines will have to play mentor to young Sam. Certainly interesting, at times philosophical, it definitely has a feel-good aspect that helps it go down easily. The trouble is, much of the story has to do with the history of the city of Ankh-Morpork and the various politicking of the rulers and those propping them up, and the Night Watch\u2019s own role in keeping the peace. Certainly a worthwhile topic, particularly at this time in American history (I can\u2019t speak to other countries), but the message is incompletely rendered to those unfamiliar with Discworld\u2019s intricacies. The upshot? Don\u2019t listen to me, unless you haven\u2019t read any of the Discworld books. Thud! ...more While <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A> is known for the humor in his Discworld series, I enjoy them primarily because-- while on the surface, his books do indeed classify as humor, he also writes these almost painful realities, very human thoughts and incredibly immersive emotions in situations that you generally don't find in most humorous fantasy/sci-fi which tends more towards parody and caricatures. Though, I wouldn\u2019t exactly say that the Discworld series isn't a parody-- because his books are parodies, or s While Terry Pratchett is known for the humor in his Discworld series, I enjoy them primarily because-- while on the surface, his books do indeed classify as humor, he also writes these almost painful realities, very human thoughts and incredibly immersive emotions in situations that you generally don't find in most humorous fantasy/sci-fi which tends more towards parody and caricatures. Though, I wouldn\u2019t exactly say that the Discworld series isn't a parody-- because his books are parodies, or social commentaries. They just happen to parody the real world more than parodying the fantasy genre. In the Nightwatch series of books, this being the first one, you are introduced to a series of ragtag characters who are disrespected and disillusioned. Then a Heroic character is introduced into the ranks. This Heroic character proves to be the inspiration and catalyst necessary for the members of the Nightwatch to stand up and finally do what they wanted to do somewhere deep in their hearts (even if, in some characters' cases, this need was buried very deeply). Be upright, respectable guards. Uphold the law. They wanted to make a difference . They wanted to matter . And by the end of the story, they do . The conclusion of this story had me nearly in tears-- it was humble and inspirational, and an entirely hilariously exciting read. I have so much love for them and their story. <3 ...more I may have said this when I finished the last Discworld book but this was by far the best Discworld book yet. Perhaps the best Pratchett book I've read. I loved it. It was not laugh out loud funny the way many of Pratchett's books are but it was so good. It was darker, delving into the history of Ankh-Morpork (Discworld's largest city) and allowing us glimpses into the past of several repeat characters, primarily Sam Vimes, Commander of the Night Watch, but also Lord Vetinari, Patrician of Ankh- I may have said this when I finished the last Discworld book but this was by far the best Discworld book yet. Perhaps the best Pratchett book I've read. I loved it. It was not laugh out loud funny the way many of Pratchett's books are but it was so good. It was darker, delving into the history of Ankh-Morpork (Discworld's largest city) and allowing us glimpses into the past of several repeat characters, primarily Sam Vimes, Commander of the Night Watch, but also Lord Vetinari, Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, and several others. Pratchett has an amazing talent at looking at universal themes from a fresh perspective, poking fun at our preconceived notions, and simply making us think. This book looked into the black hearts of men but rather than having to go into gory detail, Pratchett knows we can imagine more horrors than he could write and so he leaves us to our own minds. This book has such merit I would recommend anyone to read it but you can't fully appreciate its complexities or the heartbreak and challenges of the characters without having read the other books that pertain particularly to the Night Watch. Sam Vimes has come such a long way. In the first book he's featured in, he's a drunk with a horrible outlook on life, merely a captain, no family, no life except for the Watch. Now, several books and years later, he is a Duke, the Commander of the Watch, sober, married and about to have a child. I have never seen such redemption in a character and have to wonder if Vimes isn't Pratchett's favorite character. Rather than let him stew in his own miserableness (as typical cop movies, books, shows do) Vimes rises above his own demons to know another, better world (and he doesn't sacrifice any of his character to do so). I was very much looking forward to reading this book and was never let down. ...more Somehow Terry Pratchett seems to go down particularly well when I'm not feeling at my best. I've read several that I've enjoyed but not been particularly grabbed by. In comparison, the times that I've read one of his books while sick or exhausted, I have liked them a whole lot more. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook If I could give this book ten stars, I would. In fact, it makes me rethink all of the other books that I've given five stars, perhaps they don't deserve it... Here's the problem: This book isn't going to have the right impact unless you've read, at the very least, three of the previous Ankh-Morpork Night Watch books. Please, if you have heard about Pratchett and are looking for some place to start, go with \"Guards Guards!\" or \"Mort\", and read a few more before you embark on this one. You'll thank If I could give this book ten stars, I would. In fact, it makes me rethink all of the other books that I've given five stars, perhaps they don't deserve it... Here's the problem: This book isn't going to have the right impact unless you've read, at the very least, three of the previous Ankh-Morpork Night Watch books. Please, if you have heard about Pratchett and are looking for some place to start, go with \"Guards Guards!\" or \"Mort\", and read a few more before you embark on this one. You'll thank me later. Thanks to time travel, we get to go back in time and see many of our favorite Ankh-Morpork characters in the tail end of the bad old days that many would like to forget. And it's no wonder - Ankh-Morpork is ruled by a fascist Patrician who had imposed a city-wide curfew, and, due to his paranoia, is having his \"Unmentionables\" round up anyone who might be a dissident and torturing them into giving information. Vimes chased a totally Bursar criminal with no morals onto the roof of the Unseen University Library, and through a freak electrical storm, winds up back in the days when he himself was a rookie in the AM Night Watch. The criminal, Carcer, killed the man who Vimes remembered from the time as being his role model, John Keel, leaving Vimes to step into his place and try to guide the events of the Glorious Twenty-Fifth of May to their necessary conclusion. But could Vimes change the path of history this time and spare the lives of a few good men? Or is history doomed to repeat itself? This is my favorite Discworld novel, and that is an incredibly hard title to come by. I find it to be incredibly moving and emotional, and it makes me cry every time. \"All the little angels rise up, rise up...\" ...more 7.5/10 This is rated as one of the best Discworld novels out there, a number of friends put this at the top of a highly rated pile so coming into this on those high hopes didn't take much for it to fall short for me. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed this. It's a Watch novel which involves time travel. Talk about a winning combo! Add into that seeing all the characters you enjoy reading about at an earlier stage in their life, a revolution, and some quite emotional scenes then you have a recipe 7.5/10 This is rated as one of the best Discworld novels out there, a number of friends put this at the top of a highly rated pile so coming into this on those high hopes didn't take much for it to fall short for me. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed this. It's a Watch novel which involves time travel. Talk about a winning combo! Add into that seeing all the characters you enjoy reading about at an earlier stage in their life, a revolution, and some quite emotional scenes then you have a recipe for success. Sam Vimes teaching himself (a younger version of himself, time travel remember) tips and tricks on how to become the man he is stands out as some of the more interesting aspects of the Discworld series. Why it fell a little flat? Me, in a word. Busy schedules and a weekend away drinking in excess meant that I couldn't get the story flowing, things were forgotten and motivation was low. This is definitely one of those books that would probably have impacted me more if I could have cracked at it quicker. A Discworld novel should take about 4-5 days for me to read, this took 11 which sums it up really. So in summary, don't drink and read. I'll probably come back to this in the future and give it the time and attention it truly deserves. If you like this try: \"The Hogfather\" by Terry Pratchett ...more I'm a sucker for a good story with time travel or reincarnation... I see a book with those themes and I snatch it up if I have the funds. There's just something about them :) This one was on the good side... around page 240 or so it dragged for awhile but picked right back up. Other than that little blip, it kept my attention quite nicely and made me smile when I thought about Sam revisiting his memories and having doubts as to whether it was him or Keel. I remember saying to him in my head \"Don' I'm a sucker for a good story with time travel or reincarnation... I see a book with those themes and I snatch it up if I have the funds. There's just something about them :) This one was on the good side... around page 240 or so it dragged for awhile but picked right back up. Other than that little blip, it kept my attention quite nicely and made me smile when I thought about Sam revisiting his memories and having doubts as to whether it was him or Keel. I remember saying to him in my head \"Don't think too hard on time travel, you'll only get a migraine\" The time travel parts were handled nicely, it made sense... as much it can in this type of thing, and wasn't too outlandish, staying true to the \"ground rules\" it laid out. The one end bit with Sam when he came back. and the wizard was hilarious. Glad Carcer's fate was what I hoped it was and Vetinari... love that bastard :) Well done again Mister Pratchett! Can I go to Ankh-Morpork and join the Watch? Sounds like fun ;-) Would recommend, happy reading! ...more Another Watch novel, in which Sam Vimes Is accidentally transported decades into the past in pursuit of a murderous psychopath, whereupon he must play the part of the old Sergeant who first taught young Lance Corporal Sam Vimes what it means to be a copper. Meanwhile, political unrest spreads across the city, the old Patrician is on his way out, and the barricades are going up. Vimes knows what\u2019s going to happen \u2013 he was there after all \u2013 and he\u2019s visited the graves every year since. And now he\u2019 Another Watch novel, in which Sam Vimes Is accidentally transported decades into the past in pursuit of a murderous psychopath, whereupon he must play the part of the old Sergeant who first taught young Lance Corporal Sam Vimes what it means to be a copper. Meanwhile, political unrest spreads across the city, the old Patrician is on his way out, and the barricades are going up. Vimes knows what\u2019s going to happen \u2013 he was there after all \u2013 and he\u2019s visited the graves every year since. And now he\u2019s got to do it again. Oh. Oh, oh, oh. Okay, I\u2019m fine \u2013 it will take a lot more than this book to reduce me to a gibbering, inarticulate wreck. This isn\u2019t as funny as some Discworld novels, by which I mean that it\u2019s not as giddily hilarious, though it is dry and sarcastic and unflaggingly witty. Pratchett usually has a selection of particular targets for that wit, and this time around It\u2019s Les Miserables, which he sort of turns inside out and upside down and then sets it going with a gentle pat. This is a book about doing the job that\u2019s in front of you, about being clever in the face of stupidity. Vimes starts out just trying to catch a killer, and ends up trying to assure his own future and, by the end, save as many innocent bystanders as possible from being crushed between the military machine and the shifting tides of political power. Because Vimes is a copper. His master is the law, and this book wholeheartedly believes that the law is not something we are given by higher authority, it\u2019s something we\u2019ve got just because we are. And that\u2019s what I love about the Watch novels, I think. They\u2019ve got a keen, unerring nose for the right of the thing, and a deep disdain for those who maintain there is no right. And by \u2018they,\u2019 I mean Sam Vimes. Vimes believes in things like justice and truth with a purity and strength which should be laughable, and which is usually idiotically obnoxious in a hero. But Vimes\u2019s justice and truth aren\u2019t the cheap knock-offs, manufactured of pasteboard and excuses glued together with a stew of stick-up-your-ass. They\u2019re the real thing, and they\u2019re worth it. And that\u2019s just so wonderfully refreshing after spending too long navigating between two equally irritating options \u2013 the books that\u2019ve never heard of a shade of gray, and the ones who think absolutes are just way too much fucking work, so better chuck away the whole mess in a nihilistic tantrum. (Sorry. That last one, in particular, really gets on the nerves of this pragmatist with an idealist\u2019s heart). So these books make me happy because they believe in things with towering strength, and the things they believe in are actually worth it. Also, I love Sam Vimes with every fiber of my being. ...more One of the best books in the Discworld series. The story revolves around Sam Vimes, and it's a very good example of the author's shift from slapstick comedy to a subtler form of humor and to targetting in his imaginary world real problems from the world we live in. Using the plot device of time travel, the author throws the Commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch back to a revolutionary episode of the city history and to his own apprenticeship in the Watch. The theme offers the author rich picki One of the best books in the Discworld series. The story revolves around Sam Vimes, and it's a very good example of the author's shift from slapstick comedy to a subtler form of humor and to targetting in his imaginary world real problems from the world we live in. Using the plot device of time travel, the author throws the Commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch back to a revolutionary episode of the city history and to his own apprenticeship in the Watch. The theme offers the author rich pickings in lampooning both moneyed olygarchy and revolutionary zealots. It's easy to see why Sam Vimes is becoming one of my favorite characters from Discworld - he is a pragmatist and a cynic who expects the worst from his fellow men, yet does not give up, and \"concentrates on the job at hand\" , he fights dirty when it needs to be done, and he fights for his principles even when nobody else cares. His fondness for the city and its unruly inhabitants shine through the soles of his cheap boots, telling their own history to the perceptive mind. The book has an added attraction in the encounters with younger versions of staple characters like Cut-Me-Own-Throat-Dibbler, <---C>Nobby Nobbs</---C>, Vetinari or Reg Shoe. I will continue with the series, and I wish we could have many more years and many more books from the author. ...more I admit, I like Terry Pratchett a lot anyway, but \"Night Watch\" is hands down my favorite Discworld novels (Jingo comes in a distant second). One of the darkest and most complex of the City Watch stories, while pursuing a truly depraved criminal named Carcer, Commander Sir Samuel Vimes is thrown back through time on the eve of the birth of his son to help... well, himself. Ankh-Morpork is on the brink of revolution, and somebody's got to make sure young Sammy doesn't die before his time. But it's I admit, I like Terry Pratchett a lot anyway, but \"Night Watch\" is hands down my favorite Discworld novels (Jingo comes in a distant second). One of the darkest and most complex of the City Watch stories, while pursuing a truly depraved criminal named Carcer, Commander Sir Samuel Vimes is thrown back through time on the eve of the birth of his son to help... well, himself. Ankh-Morpork is on the brink of revolution, and somebody's got to make sure young Sammy doesn't die before his time. But it's so much more than that. The high drama of the story comes from the subtle portrayal, not only of good and evil, but the extremely gray area of civil war, class warfare, the human spirit, and the will to survive. Parodising works like Les Miserables, time travel stories, and Eastern philosophy, Pratchett draws on a rich tapestry of history, from the English Civil War to the bloody French Revolution to paint a sometimes comical, sometimes tragic, always wry but never detached story of what happens when you get a split the trousers of time, deftly handling a time paradox and complex issues of destiny, fate, fellowship in adversity, faith, fidelity, and the morality and importance of our choices, the last being a Sam Vimes theme that is carefully developed and explored through later Discworld books. As a bonus, this story also features the teenaged Havelock Vetinari, in a rare portrait of the young tyrant before his time, in a fascinating cameo that adds yet another layer of texture to this complex tapestry of drama in the best possible sense, written with all of Pratchett's sensibilities and ironies in the world quite like ours, only... not. ...more Night Watch isn't the best place to start Pratchett, not because it would leave a bad impression, but because you just won't get as much out of it as a seasoned fan. That's because it's a novel that doesn't just follow on from the events of previous books, but that culminates, explains, and perhaps even justifies them. The plot may be close to standalone - there are very few facts a newcomer would need to learn to understand the plot - but the examination of, and recontextualisation of not only Night Watch isn't the best place to start Pratchett, not because it would leave a bad impression, but because you just won't get as much out of it as a seasoned fan. That's because it's a novel that doesn't just follow on from the events of previous books, but that culminates, explains, and perhaps even justifies them. The plot may be close to standalone - there are very few facts a newcomer would need to learn to understand the plot - but the examination of, and recontextualisation of not only the central human character of Vimes, but of the broader character of the city of Ankh-Morpork itself, is the source of the book's power. It's a strikingly grim, messy and restless Discworld entry, eschewing the easy moralisation that Pratchett was sometimes prone to - or rather, the easy moralisation is there... but so are the doubts. How much evil can a man do in the name of overcoming evil? How much tyranny is permissable in order to protect freedom? Night Watch feels like one of the stories that Pratchett was born to tell - and it's also one of his masterpieces. My full review of it is over on my blog. ...more The thing about Prachett's discworld books is, that once you've read five or six of them you've read them all. Aside from that they are the literary equivalent of a good cup of tea and a biscuit. Vimes is one of Pratchett's characters that has grown greatly over the course of the Discworld series. This book affirms Vimes' place as the traditional family man, a far cry from where Vimes was when the reader is first introduced to him in Guards! Guards! . The story itself highlights the growth of Anakh-Morpork as well as gives the reader valuable insight into the city's recurring, though not central, characters, such as Reg Shoe, Nobby, and Colon. Pratchett seems to really like Vimes, and in f Vimes is one of Pratchett's characters that has grown greatly over the course of the Discworld series. This book affirms Vimes' place as the traditional family man, a far cry from where Vimes was when the reader is first introduced to him in Guards! Guards! . The story itself highlights the growth of Anakh-Morpork as well as gives the reader valuable insight into the city's recurring, though not central, characters, such as Reg Shoe, Nobby, and Colon. Pratchett seems to really like Vimes, and in fact, Vimes seems to be the most human of all of Pratchett's creations. One wonders if Vimes is in some way Pratchett's own alter-ego. Along with Granny Weatherwax and Ridcully, Vimes represents in many way the old guard of the Disc. In this book, Vimes becomes use to his skin, to being called \"his grace\". He sees, perhaps, the need for such things as well as the use of politics. He doesn't want to go back to what he once was. Here, we see a Vimes at peace with himself, far more than he was in The Fifth Elephant . Pratchett does not seem bored with his characters nor he is afraid to show the readers a pair of older lovers. Pratchett teaches us that we never stop learning or growing, not even as adults; nor can we fully disavow the past because the past helps us to grow. ...more I have written on here many times how much I love Terry Pratchett and how I literally feel like I cannot - can. not. - get enough of his Discworld series. [2015 update: still can't get enough.] I don't write reviews for all the books of his I read because that would be insanely repetitive for both me to write and for you to read. Those imaginary reviews would include the words 'comfort food for the soul' in every bloody review, I can tell you now. But I did want to write quickly about this little I have written on here many times how much I love Terry Pratchett and how I literally feel like I cannot - can. not. - get enough of his Discworld series. [2015 update: still can't get enough.] I don't write reviews for all the books of his I read because that would be insanely repetitive for both me to write and for you to read. Those imaginary reviews would include the words 'comfort food for the soul' in every bloody review, I can tell you now. But I did want to write quickly about this little gem, as I think it might be my favourite that I've read so far. [2015 update: Yep. My favourite by far.] The stories that are focused on the Watch are always brilliant (it's my personal favourite Discworld arc) but this one that sees Commander Samuel Vimes going back in time to a battle that a younger version of himself also fought in is just especially good. It's heart-warming and heart-breaking, all at once. I had a lot of feelings reading this one, let me tell you that. [2015 update: now that we've lost Terry, my feelings are stronger, if anything.] I love you, Sam Vimes. ...more Otras rese\u00f1as de Mundodisco en mi blog. Gracias Terry por otra divertid\u00edsima historia. Siempre que termino uno de los libros de Mundodisco me siento feliz e impresionado por la imaginaci\u00f3n que ten\u00eda Pratchett, y \u00abRonda de Noche\u00bb no fue la excepci\u00f3n: sin lugar a dudas es uno de los mejores libros de los Guardias y eso ya es decir mucho. No puedo ponerle menos de 5 estrellas a los libros de Mundodisco, sinceramente me encantan y los recomiendo a todo el mundo. Lamentablemente solo me quedan dos Otras rese\u00f1as de Mundodisco en mi blog. Gracias Terry por otra divertid\u00edsima historia. Siempre que termino uno de los libros de Mundodisco me siento feliz e impresionado por la imaginaci\u00f3n que ten\u00eda Pratchett, y \u00abRonda de Noche\u00bb no fue la excepci\u00f3n: sin lugar a dudas es uno de los mejores libros de los Guardias y eso ya es decir mucho. No puedo ponerle menos de 5 estrellas a los libros de Mundodisco, sinceramente me encantan y los recomiendo a todo el mundo. Lamentablemente solo me quedan dos libros protagonizados por Vimes y el resto de la Guardia de Ankh-Morpork T_T (Rese\u00f1a pendiente). ...more I am annoyed. I paid full price for this unprofessional formatting in the kindle ebook. Example of words-stuck-together: \u201cCapital. I lookforwardto\u2026our future cooperation, Sergeant. Your new captain willundoubtedly\u2026inform you of other matters as he sees fit. Good day.\" This type of glitch occurs numerous times, and the Audible version is also poor quality, with loud whirring sounds in the background, probably an artifact of CDs or cassettes. Bummer. But sloppy formatting aside, it's a great book! I am annoyed. I paid full price for this unprofessional formatting in the kindle ebook. Example of words-stuck-together: \u201cCapital. I lookforwardto\u2026our future cooperation, Sergeant. Your new captain willundoubtedly\u2026inform you of other matters as he sees fit. Good day.\" This type of glitch occurs numerous times, and the Audible version is also poor quality, with loud whirring sounds in the background, probably an artifact of CDs or cassettes. Bummer. But sloppy formatting aside, it's a great book! I've read it before and am currently re-reading it. Here we travel back 30 years and meet a much younger Nobby Nobbs, Fred Colon, Havelock Vetinari, and Sam Vimes, new rookie constable. Even a teenage Sybil makes a cameo. Night Watch isn't as witty the previous two books. Not so much word play. Not as much political satire. This book is a more intense and more poignant novel, where Vimes, as his old street-savvy self \u2014 but disguised \u2014 must teach his younger self how to be a true-blue copper. Amidst intense brutality, corruption, madness, and civil revolution, young Sam must learn all he can from older Sam. It's a book about believing passionately in something (like truth, justice, affordable love and a hard-boiled egg) and getting the job done! See my review of the series embedded in my review of Guards! Guards! http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch and its commander Sam Vimes, in order of publication: Guards! Guards! (1989) Men at Arms (1993) Feet of Clay (1996) Jingo (1997) The Fifth Elephant (1999) Night Watch (2002) Thud (2005) Snuff (2011) (Series links at https://www.goodreads.com/series/1062... ) Also, there are some spin-off books featuring con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig, and a few characters from the City Watch. I recommend Going Postal which describes the invention and proliferation of postage stamps (loved it) and Making Money , depicting the creation of paper money to replace gold (also very good). The Truth is not about Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters, including Lord Vetinari, even though it is not officially part of the City Watch series (whatever that means). This book depicts the invention of a printing press and the subsequent introduction of widespread newspapers into society. Satire deals with the wholesale acceptance of lies when ink-validated. William de Worde (he-he) is the city's first investigative journalist, sleuthing out possible murder and a plot to overthrow Lord Vetinari. --Unseen Academicals (2009) Not so great -- and not really City Watch, but a few characters overlap. ...more Unlike most other Discworld novels, this is not a funny book. It\u2019s exploratory and philosophical and delves deep into the natures of leadership and decency, courage and tolerance. By accident, Sam Vimes, the Watch Commander of Ankh-Morpork and a Duke, is transported 30 years into the past, when the young Sam Vimes was just starting his work in the city police. The streets are boiling with unrest on the eve of a bloody rebellion, and it\u2019s up to the older and much more experienced Vimes to preserv Unlike most other Discworld novels, this is not a funny book. It\u2019s exploratory and philosophical and delves deep into the natures of leadership and decency, courage and tolerance. By accident, Sam Vimes, the Watch Commander of Ankh-Morpork and a Duke, is transported 30 years into the past, when the young Sam Vimes was just starting his work in the city police. The streets are boiling with unrest on the eve of a bloody rebellion, and it\u2019s up to the older and much more experienced Vimes to preserve as many lives as he could, even if he can\u2019t prevent the senseless revolution. \u201cDon't put your trust in revolutions. They always come round again. That's why they're called revolutions. People die, and nothing changes.\u201d The older Sam Vimes is pessimistic and grim, with 30 years of experience as a policeman behind him. He doesn\u2019t have any illusions left, neither about the common citizens nor about his fellow policemen, but he values lives and above all, he respects the Law. His integrity is never for sale, no matter the price. When the need arises, he puts his skills and his life on the line, and the Night Watch rallies around him. Like any good leader, he makes heroes out of the average men, inspires them by his irreverence towards authority and his acceptance of human follies. He makes sensible decisions, disregards cruel or ignorant orders of his superiors, and always leads by example. The story is seemingly slow, rooting for a wide panorama and deep understanding instead of a lighter mockery, as in many of Pratchett\u2019s earlier novels. Nothing is galloping or hurtling ahead. The events are gradually expanding, rolling forward like an unstoppable avalanche. When the plot gathers momentum, nothing can stop it. Of all the City Watch books I\u2019ve read so far, this one made the best and most profound psychological portrait of Sam Vimes. Finally, after several earlier volumes, I could see the man in all his complexity, and my respect for him, high already, soared. I wish our city police was led by such a guy. The other characters are less distinctive, but there are many of them: good and bad, funny and whiny, clever and stupid. The entire crowd congregates and pivots around one human focus \u2013 Sam Vimes, the embodiment of a Leader. A great read. ...more Pratchet is brilliant. The story is part of the 'Guards' sequence in the Disc World series. For non-Disc Worlders you have to understand that prolific Pratchet created a comic fantasy world called the Disc World and then proceeded to write stories set in different parts of it, with different characters etc that sometimes meet each other. The Guards sequence centres on Sam Vimes who is a cop in the city of Ank-Morepork. It is kind of medieval, kind of modern. In this story Sam has risen to be comm Pratchet is brilliant. The story is part of the 'Guards' sequence in the Disc World series. For non-Disc Worlders you have to understand that prolific Pratchet created a comic fantasy world called the Disc World and then proceeded to write stories set in different parts of it, with different characters etc that sometimes meet each other. The Guards sequence centres on Sam Vimes who is a cop in the city of Ank-Morepork. It is kind of medieval, kind of modern. In this story Sam has risen to be commander of the Watch (the police). He's rich and successful and trying to hunt down a killer, the kind who kills cops, so it is personal. While the action keeps going, as does the humour, Pratchet finds time to take us inside Sam's head where he is thinking about what the real role of the police is and how it is different from the military, and where should the police be when a revolution takes place and the army is called in to keep the peace when the rulers are certifiably insane? He works in some time travel and the barricades section was surely influenced by 'Les Miserables', and lots of other stuff too. This could be done badly, but it is done well. As with all Pratchet's books you are rewarded by paying attention. I am sure I don't get all of his obscure jokes, you have to know lots of stuff for them to take, but I feel smug when I do get them. ...more Whoa. Just...whoa. This is not the comedy of Guards! Guards! No dragon in this book...just the dragon of mankind. So real, so raw, so... Time travel. Corruption in the government and police forces. Revolution. Criminals. Assassins. And one man who dares to take a stand and lead others in moral rightness. This story is very dark as it deals with very realistic crime, bloody battle, devilish politics, and the Beast inside every man. It also struck a little closer to home for me as the main character Whoa. Just...whoa. This is not the comedy of Guards! Guards! No dragon in this book...just the dragon of mankind. So real, so raw, so... Time travel. Corruption in the government and police forces. Revolution. Criminals. Assassins. And one man who dares to take a stand and lead others in moral rightness. This story is very dark as it deals with very realistic crime, bloody battle, devilish politics, and the Beast inside every man. It also struck a little closer to home for me as the main characters are policemen. And yet just men. Most of them aren't prepared to deal with the darkness they are called to defeat. Some of them would rather join the darkness, others might run away. But for those who stand and rise-- Sam Vimes is now one of my favorite heroes. He's incredible, absolutely incredible. And Lord Vetinari--GASP. It is so HUMAN. When people say Pratchett writes humanity like no other, they're right. Okay, so there are about two others I can think of who are also right there, but there IS something special about Pratchett. It's a lot like our world...but different. ;) ...more I originally thought Terry Pratchett's books were rather silly, and after Moving Pictures I decided I wouldn't bother again. I can't remember why I changed my mind but I'm glad I did, because his books got better and better up to Night Watch, which is my absolute and all time favourite. I've even re-read the silly ones and they weren't that bad, after all. Night Watch is brilliant. I mean that quite literally. His other books are entertaining, and they're fun, and they poke a bit of political fu I originally thought Terry Pratchett's books were rather silly, and after Moving Pictures I decided I wouldn't bother again. I can't remember why I changed my mind but I'm glad I did, because his books got better and better up to Night Watch, which is my absolute and all time favourite. I've even re-read the silly ones and they weren't that bad, after all. Night Watch is brilliant. I mean that quite literally. His other books are entertaining, and they're fun, and they poke a bit of political fun, but in Night Watch he changes the whole stage, strips away all the fantasy characters, and proves he can write up a storm. Good stuff. You'll enjoy it. You may have to read some of the ones leading up to it, I don't know, but this one steps outside the box and stands alone. ...more Where do I begin with this most beloved of books, by this most beloved of current authors? I guess I can start by explaining how I came to read the world-renowned works of Sir Terry \u201cthe new Chaucer\u201d* Pratchett myself. It was because of a blog that I came across accidentally. The blogger was thrilled because a new Disc World book had come out in the USA, and she couldn\u2019t wait to read about \u201cDeath\u2019s granddaughter.\u201d She added that she envied anyone who hadn\u2019t read a single book in the fantasy seri Where do I begin with this most beloved of books, by this most beloved of current authors? I guess I can start by explaining how I came to read the world-renowned works of Sir Terry \u201cthe new Chaucer\u201d* Pratchett myself. It was because of a blog that I came across accidentally. The blogger was thrilled because a new Disc World book had come out in the USA, and she couldn\u2019t wait to read about \u201cDeath\u2019s granddaughter.\u201d She added that she envied anyone who hadn\u2019t read a single book in the fantasy series, because every page in every volume was laugh-aloud funny. Whoa! A whole series of laugh-aloud fantasy books? Plus the idea that Death could have a granddaughter . . . that was intriguing! I bought the first book, The Color of Magic, and enjoyed it immensely. In its early days, Disc World was indeed almost all about a chortle (or three) per page. And then . . . it became so much more. By the time I got to Lords and Ladies, I was not just guffawing at the wit, but crying in sheer wonder at the end of the book. Sir Terry does desperate idealism and uplifting, heartbreaking climaxes with effortless grace. Sure, he\u2019ll add a triple-twist to the conclusion that leaves you chuckling in admiration at mysteries cleverly solved, but in the latter two-thirds of the Disc World series he\u2019ll also make your heart swell and your eyes mist over as you are exhilarated by a perfect moment of raw feeling at the end. When I started Night Watch, I knew exactly what Sir Terence David John \u201cTerry\u201d Pratchett could do to me with his endings. I guess that\u2019s what snatched away my breath at the very beginning of the book, the first time I read the five words of the story\u2019s theme song: \u201cHow Do They Rise Up.\u201d I began to weep on the spot in anticipation. (I was right, too.) What is Night Watch about? I believe the blurb on my first copy read something like: \u201cThis morning Sam Vimes was reminiscing about the good old days in the Watch. This afternoon he\u2019s living in them.\u201d In a nutshell, His Grace, the Duke of Ankh, Watch Commander Sir Samuel Vimes, accidental time-traveler, is hunting a serial-killer named Carcer, who has also been thrown back thirty years in time. His Grace quickly discovers that although a vicious criminal like Carcer is actually better off when no one recognizes who he is, being a Duke or a copper** is dependent on other people allowing you to be one. Not only that, but the \u201cgood old days\u201d are actually some very bad old times, with a corrupt Patrician ruling the metropolis of Ankh-Morpork, and a vigilante group of secret police, the Unmentionables, dealing out their own terrifying version of justice by torture. What\u2019s a Samuel Vimes to do? There\u2019s nothing for it but to get a job as a copper again, under the pseudonym John Keel, his old Sergeant\u2019s name. As soon as he does this, however, he meets up with skinny, na\u00efve eighteen-year-old Lance Constable Sam Vimes. Yep, His Grace must become his own tutor--the staunch Sergeant who teaches young Sam all that\u2019s vital about becoming a good copper rather than a crooked one. Night Watch is also about revolutions (\u201cDon\u2019t put your trust in [them]. . . . People die, and nothing changes\u201d); and about the nature of evil (\u201cYou found that people like Carcer . . . looked at the world and realized that all the rules didn\u2019t have to apply to them, not if they didn\u2019t want them to . . . They shook hands with The Beast\u201d); and, most importantly, about the nature of goodness (\u201cAll the little angels rise up, rise up . . .). Speaking about goodness, Sergeant-at-arms John Keel is one of my favorite characters of all time. He is all that is positive about Sam Vimes, while remaining about as far from a saint as he can get without losing his halo entirely. By the end, he is proved to be a tactical and psychological genius while still being a grunt,*** a sort of olden-days MacGyver, and a truly decent man who must face a seemingly impossible dilemma: how to finish his manhunt and get back home without allowing the tragedy that engulfed the real Sergeant Keel\u2019s fellow coppers to happen all over again. Incidentally, there are several wonderful sub-plots that I am ignoring because of spoilers. I won\u2019t say much more, except that you\u2019ll smile wryly or laugh aloud on many of the pages, and if you\u2019re sensitive you\u2019ll likely cry at some point in the end. When His Grace Sam Vimes discovers what matters more than gilt and feathers and badges and feeling chilly, you\u2019ll want to raise a glass to his health (something non-alcoholic, preferably). Also, for fans of the modern Patrician, Lord Vetinari, I think that young Havelock of the Assassins Guild offers a refreshing insight into the character of this most cerebral and duplicitous politician. Night Watch quite changed my own perspective on the gentleman. I love his redoubtable aunt. One last word: This book is best enjoyed if you are already familiar with the character Samuel Vimes, who debuted in Guards, Guards as a forlorn and alcoholic Night Watchman. It isn\u2019t absolutely necessary to read all the previous Sam Vimes books (Guards, Guards, Men at Arms, Feet of Clay, Jingo, and The Fifth Elephant) before taking up Night Watch, but it does make for a richer experience. *The Washington Post coined this nickname, and it\u2019s perfect. He\u2019s not as bawdy as Geoffrey Chaucer, but his satire is just as vivid, his humor just as wicked, and his love of misfits--his great compassion for the flawed or fallen of humankind--is just as deep. **Police officer, member of the Watch. ***A \u201cman of the polis.\u201d Polis = Greek word for city-state. Roughly: \u201cman of the people (of the city).\u201d ...more **edit 2016** Reread for the Glorious 25th of May Still one of my favorite Discworld books as well as one of my all-time favorite books in general. *********** I think this is one of the best Discworld books I've read so far. It was excellent. I mean, it had the Assassin's Guild, the Time Monks, AND the Watch. What's not to like? Desde que conoc\u00ed a Vimes, se convirti\u00f3 en mi personaje literario favorito. Nunca tengo suficiente y los libros de la guardia son los que m\u00e1s pasajes se\u00f1alados tienen. Vimes, en estado puro, ha sido demasiado. Si me vierais ahora, abrazando el libro... \"Night Watch\" by Terry Pratchett. Duke Sam Vimes is Ankh-Morpork City Watch Commander, one privileged to don a purple sweet-scented lilac sprig for 25 May memorial of the Revolution. Many, including fellow officers, lost their lives, and corrupt dictator Patrician Winder was assassinated. Our hero is no longer the naive inexperienced novice recruit of weeks, mentored by senior John Keel of the night shift. Nor is pregnant wife Sybil young, her firstborn is due within hours. Perhaps continuity wi \"Night Watch\" by Terry Pratchett. Duke Sam Vimes is Ankh-Morpork City Watch Commander, one privileged to don a purple sweet-scented lilac sprig for 25 May memorial of the Revolution. Many, including fellow officers, lost their lives, and corrupt dictator Patrician Winder was assassinated. Our hero is no longer the naive inexperienced novice recruit of weeks, mentored by senior John Keel of the night shift. Nor is pregnant wife Sybil young, her firstborn is due within hours. Perhaps continuity with the Discworld series complicates? Tedious warmup, clogged middle slow and distort a potentially clever plot, yield a puzzling conclusion. Trapped in the past, let enough bad happen so the future stays the same. Forced humor cess-pool (first page) and many stinks (spoiler: naked return). Mindless ordinary mobs cause the tragedy of good men sacrificed in meaningless deaths. I cannot find a moral, unless, red tape and normal propel evil. Cop-killer Carcer, cornered, slices at Vimes' eye while both fall into a time distortion powered by a great thunderstorm. The villain waylays and slays Keel. Sweeper history-minder monks warn Vimes he cannot return yet. Beneath an eye-patch, Vimes must masquerade as Keel, guide his impressionable younger self, and foil Carcer, risen to power in the local equivalent of the Nazi SS. Vimes always saves innocents, so he tries to preserve citizens while Time and Carcer both push toward the same end of good men lost. Spoiler: In a New World of memorial name walls and a Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, I do not ken Vimes, who vehemently insists a heroic tribute is wrong. \"They did the job they didn't have to do, and they died doing it ... they were betrayed. Men like them always are.\" p361 Yet he accepts a new station house on the original site. If Vimes had not gone to the past, roomed with Dr Lawn on Twinkle St, fingered and enquired about the unusual obstetrical tools, would Sybil and baby Sam have survived? Typos: p7 treadler for treader ...more \"Zvu\u010di kao prave-pravcate tunge . Ali ponekad ne mogu a da se ne zapitam: \u0160ta bi se desilo da sam nekad postupio druga\u010dije...\" \"Kao ono kad ste ubili svoju \u017eenu?\" Vajmsova ravnodu\u0161nost zadivila je \u010cista\u010da. \"Isku\u0161avate me, je li?\" \"Brzo u\u010dite, gospodine Vajmse.\" \"Ali u nekom drugom univerzumu, verujte mi, zamahnuo sam i maznuo vas pesnicom.\" \u0160to bih volela da mi je Vajms \u0107ale. Kakav je to lik, o\u0161trouman, po\u0161ten, pravi \u010covek. I same Bene Geseritke bi klimoglavile kad bi ga videle. Zapravo on mi se \u010dini k \"Zvu\u010di kao prave-pravcate tunge . Ali ponekad ne mogu a da se ne zapitam: \u0160ta bi se desilo da sam nekad postupio druga\u010dije...\" \"Kao ono kad ste ubili svoju \u017eenu?\" Vajmsova ravnodu\u0161nost zadivila je \u010cista\u010da. \"Isku\u0161avate me, je li?\" \"Brzo u\u010dite, gospodine Vajmse.\" \"Ali u nekom drugom univerzumu, verujte mi, zamahnuo sam i maznuo vas pesnicom.\" \u0160to bih volela da mi je Vajms \u0107ale. Kakav je to lik, o\u0161trouman, po\u0161ten, pravi \u010covek. I same Bene Geseritke bi klimoglavile kad bi ga videle. Zapravo on mi se \u010dini kao ideal mu\u0161karca.. \"No\u0107na stra\u017ea\" je poslastica za \u010ditanje za svakog prose\u010dnog revolucionara i onog koji se smeje politi\u010dkoj demagogiji i apsurdnosti svega toga. \"Neko jeste kovao zavere, u to nije bilo sumnje. Neki su bili obi\u010dni ljudi kojima je prekarda\u0161ilo. Neki su bili mladi bez novca, kojima je smetalo \u0161to svetom upravljaju stari i bogati. Neki su se upustili u to da bi na\u0161li devojku. A neki su bili kreteni, ludi koliko i Ljulj, podjednako krutih i neprakti\u010dnih pogleda na svet, na strani onoga \u0161to su nazivali \"Narodom\". Vajms je ceo \u017eivot proveo na ulici i sretao je po\u0161tenja\u010dine, budale, tipove koji bi i slepom prosjaku ukrali gro\u0161 i ljude koji izvode \u010duda za koja nikad niko ne \u010duje ili iz dana u dan \u010dine o\u010dajni\u010dke zlo\u010dine iza \u0161trokavih prozora malecnih ku\u0107a, ali nikad nije susreo Narod. Narod na strani Naroda uvek bi na kraju ostao razo\u010daran, u svakom slu\u010daju. Shvatili bi kako je Narod uglavnom nezahvalan, ne ceni to \u0161to rade i ne razmi\u0161lja moderno, ili se sastoji od poslu\u0161nika. Narod je mahom bio sitnodu\u0161an i staromodan, ne preterano pametan, i \u010dak pun nepoverenja prema pameti. I zato su se deca revolucije na\u0161la suo\u010dena s problemom starim kao zemlja: Nije da ima\u0161 pogre\u0161nu sortu vlade, \u0161to je o\u010digledno, nego ima\u0161 i pogre\u0161nu sortu naroda.\" ...more Technically the 6th City Watch novel, this is more of a Samuel Vimes tale than anything else. We only get minor appearances from some of the main coppers such as Captain Carrot and Sergeant Detritus, but a whole slew of new people and even some old guys, albeit at a much younger age. That's because this is also a time travel story. Typically, I am not a fan of time travel. It's a complicated subject that is often poorly executed outside of Ray Bradbury speculative short stories. There are just to Technically the 6th City Watch novel, this is more of a Samuel Vimes tale than anything else. We only get minor appearances from some of the main coppers such as Captain Carrot and Sergeant Detritus, but a whole slew of new people and even some old guys, albeit at a much younger age. That's because this is also a time travel story. Typically, I am not a fan of time travel. It's a complicated subject that is often poorly executed outside of Ray Bradbury speculative short stories. There are just too many theories about what would happen if someone went into the past and started messing around, and most science fiction television shows or movies that tackle the subject end up trying to ignore glaring holes in their plot. Mr. Pratchett did a phenomenal job with the concept. He came up with an explanation that works without being overly in depth. This allows the reader to focus on the story and ignore technicalities. This book wasn't one of the funnier Discworld tales, but it was one of the most human. It reinforced why Samuel Vimes is my favorite character from the series, and one of my favorite characters period. As soon as I started reading, I knew this was going on my favorites shelf. I'd recommend this novel to absolutely anyone interested in Discworld and great, character-driven stories, but unfortunately it's a terrible place to start. Yes, it's best to read in publication order, but I accept the fact that people jump around and the early books might not be as attractive for some as the later ones. That said, it's imperative to have background knowledge on the City Watch in order to appreciate Night Watch to the fullest extent, so at least start with Guards! Guards! and work your way through that character arc. ...more A fairly late book in the Watch series. Improves on being read in sequence The life of Sam Vimes. Living the uncomfortably posh life -- he can't really go on patrol, because the sergeant alert the men to straighten up, and the consolation of knowing he has sharp sergeants does not compensate for the lack -- and his wife is in labor -- and he gets word that a homicidal sociopath, Carcer, whom they've been looking for, had run into a guardsman just off duty and killed him. Top priority comes to cor A fairly late book in the Watch series. Improves on being read in sequence The life of Sam Vimes. Living the uncomfortably posh life -- he can't really go on patrol, because the sergeant alert the men to straighten up, and the consolation of knowing he has sharp sergeants does not compensate for the lack -- and his wife is in labor -- and he gets word that a homicidal sociopath, Carcer, whom they've been looking for, had run into a guardsman just off duty and killed him. Top priority comes to cornering him, which ends up on top of the Unseen University When Vimes goes to bring him, lightning strikes. Next thing he knows, he's lying in the street. It takes him some time to work out that he's been thrown back in time. His wife is still a girl. His younger self is new to the Watch but quick-witted enough to arrest him. Lord Winders is Patriarch and paranoid, and his Unmentionables are doing his (very) dirty work. The History Monks find him and tell him that Carcer has set time awry. They can sustain things if he moves into the shoes of a person whom Carcer kills, significant in his past. It involves inkwells, lilac blossoms, Dr. Lawn an irregular doctor, needing a receipt to hand over prisoners, a silver cigar case, the inconspicuousness of dancing through the street lighting firecrackers, where the second-hand store got its used clothes, setting a building on fire, and much more. ...more Oh, my. Oh, oh, oh my. I do love this book. Of all the Discworld books, I have read it the most often, and find something new to think about every time. I have a lot of trouble writing about my most-loved titles without sounding like a sniveling, sentimental sycophant, but I will try. This particular book deals with heinous crime, time travel, the creation of a family, political intrigue and alternate histories, (or futures, depending on your POV). All of my favorite characters from Ankh-Morpork Oh, my. Oh, oh, oh my. I do love this book. Of all the Discworld books, I have read it the most often, and find something new to think about every time. I have a lot of trouble writing about my most-loved titles without sounding like a sniveling, sentimental sycophant, but I will try. This particular book deals with heinous crime, time travel, the creation of a family, political intrigue and alternate histories, (or futures, depending on your POV). All of my favorite characters from Ankh-Morpork are involved, especially Sam Vimes, who is the main character. We see much deeper connections for his character through the events that happen for Young \"Vimesy\". I think that to get the most out of this book, one should read the other City Watch books, like Guards! Guards!, Men at Arms, and Thud! However, it is not entirely necessary to enjoy the book. There are such dark themes in this episode that anyone who has just casually read a Rincewind or Nanny Ogg book are going to be surprised at its content. There are hilarious moments, to be sure, (used sonky in the Zen rock garden, anyone?) but on the whole it's more clever than slapstick. This is not a book report, so that is all I'll reveal, but I think if you are a fan of Pratchett or fantasy, this book is right up your alley. If you're not, but are thinking of reading this anyway, DO IT! ...more How do they rise up? Rise up? Rise up? Terry gets people. The few clich\u00e9s in this book are easily forgiven because Terry just gets how people work. This is probaly a terrible place to start reading Discworld but is one of the best. I did start on this one way back when as this was the only Pratchett my library had at the time but you really should read the Guards books in order. It's wonderful seeing the Vimes of today in the old Ankh, without any of his connections, power or men. The line about t How do they rise up? Rise up? Rise up? Terry gets people. The few clich\u00e9s in this book are easily forgiven because Terry just gets how people work. This is probaly a terrible place to start reading Discworld but is one of the best. I did start on this one way back when as this was the only Pratchett my library had at the time but you really should read the Guards books in order. It's wonderful seeing the Vimes of today in the old Ankh, without any of his connections, power or men. The line about teaching young Sam to walk gets me every time. I just love this book. \"You'd like Freedom, Truth, and Justice, wouldn't you, Comrade Sergeant?' said Reg encouragingly. 'I'd like a hard-boiled egg,' said Vimes, shaking the match out. There was some nervous laughter, but Reg looked offended. 'In the circumstances, Sergeant, I think we should set our sights a little higher--' 'Well, yes, we could,' said Vimes, coming down the steps. He glanced at the sheets of papers in front of Reg. The man cared. He really did. And he was serious. He really was. 'But...well, Reg, tomorrow the sun will come up again, and I'm pretty sure that whatever happens we won't have found Freedom, and there won't be a whole lot of Justice, and I'm damn sure we won't have found Truth. But it's just possible that I might get a hard-boiled egg.\" GNU TERRY PRATCHETT ...more", "Title": "Night Watch"},
