{"Comments": "<+++>Fables, Vol. 1: Legends in Exile</+++>I remember being somewhat taken aback the first time I read an original Fairy Tale. They aren't child-friendly, in fact many of them were written to unnerve and frighten children. The characters in fairytales are usually half-mad, murderous, sexually-charged, and grotesque. Authors have returned to them again and again for inspiration,<---M> exploring the history of storytelling</---M>, moralizing tales, propaganda, and archetypes. Gaiman's 'Sandman' is notable for some remarkable insights into the nature of I remember being somewhat taken aback the first time I read an original Fairy Tale. They aren't child-friendly, in fact many of them were written to unnerve and frighten children. The characters in fairytales are usually half-mad, murderous, sexually-charged, and grotesque. Authors have returned to them again and again for inspiration, exploring the history of storytelling, moralizing tales, propaganda, and archetypes. Gaiman's 'Sandman' is notable for some remarkable insights into the nature of fairy tales and how they comment on what has changed in our modern storytelling tradition--and what hasn't. Likewise Mignola has recalled to us some of the less pleasant aspects of fairy stories in 'Hellboy', where the madness of these myths is hardly forgotten. Hellboy was a decade before Fables, and Sandman twenty years before, but Fables is, if anything, a regression, doing less with myth than earlier comics. Names are dropped, but the characters attached neither typify nor subvert the characters they are aping. In the end, Willingham portrays a less nuanced take on the original myth than the average Disney movie. His dialogue is wooden, lacking in subtlety or thrust. The characters say what you would expect them to, with plenty of awkward exposition: \"Todd, my brother, what are you doing here at the government headquarters when you should be searching for your lost wife?\" There's no style or charm to be found in the writing and the characters show none of the grotesque vividness of their sources. Willingham seems unable to imagine a larger world than the one directly implied by his plot, which is a straightforward murder-mystery. His setting has all the depth of a painted backdrop. If he had hoped to achieve a sliver of what Gaiman did with old myths, he should have delved deeper into his source materials. His interweaving is clumsy, with the suggestion that Oz and 'The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe' are part of his fairytale tradition. This inclusion conflicts with the backstory, since both were written after the fables were ousted from fairy land and relocated to America (the result of a war with Satan in a flashback swiped from 'The Lord of The Rings' Films). The art is workmanlike, often as wooden and simplified as the dialogue. It tells the story with little flair or movement. Characters are successfully reproduced, but not explored or played with. Most of the frames are closeups of people talking, and the rest are mid-range bird's eye group shots.<---F> It's all yawningly safe</---F>. The color palate shows little variance or mood, more 'Jughead Digest' than Vertigo, and lacking even the lurid appeal of a 4-color. Once again I'm haunted by the phrase \"it gets better!\", which is all the more maddening because in a tiny fraction of cases, it proves to be true. Unfortunately, the next two volumes don't get much better, though with practice, the dull, awkward storytelling does get more streamlined, which is kind of like a bad restaurant which puts out fliers to announce that it now has delivery service. Mediocrity is one of the few things made worse by improving its convenience. I usually save one-star reviews for books that were overtly insulting or stupid, but this one gets it purely on uninspired dullness. I tried reading it when it first came out, and couldn't get through it. After hearing all the praise more recently, I tried again. I'm not going to be one of those who says that comics used to be better and suck now, I know there must be good comics out right now, but they can be hard to find. I'm back to looking, it seems. My Suggested Readings in Comics ...more I'd been wondering why lately I've had such bad luck with books. Almost everything I picked up went back down again and more than half of what I read through and reviewed was a disappointment. After reading this first volume of the Fables series, it hit me all of a sudden - Tatiana . Or lack of Tatiana and her excellent book-recommending skills. Thanks for the rec, T, I knew you'd get it right ^_^ The Fables series has been one I've wanted to start since I first heard of it. Adult retellings of cl I'd been wondering why lately I've had such bad luck with books. Almost everything I picked up went back down again and more than half of what I read through and reviewed was a disappointment. After reading this first volume of the Fables series, it hit me all of a sudden - Tatiana . Or lack of Tatiana and her excellent book-recommending skills. Thanks for the rec, T, I knew you'd get it right ^_^ The Fables series has been one I've wanted to start since I first heard of it. Adult retellings of classic fairytales with a few touches of sex, violence and humour? SOLD! However, I talked myself out of it about a year ago when I foolishly picked up a random volume - nine, I believe - and didn't get it at all. Perhaps volume nine happens to be a bad apple in an otherwise excellent bunch, or perhaps that particular volume wasn't made to be read as a standalone (IMO, the first three can be enjoyed individually), whatever the reason, I found myself putting off a series which I'd previously been certain I'd love. I've learned my lesson and am now breezing through these fantastic volumes (I'll be starting number four soon) and becoming more and more addicted to the characters, the world and the humour. Will you enjoy this? Personally, I think it depends on whether the humour is your cup of tea. I also don't believe it would be fair to sell this series as merely a comedy; each volume is very different, some are darker and gorier than others, some are primarily mysteries, others not so much. But the humour is behind it all and is what, for me, turns this into something more than a regular urban fantasy, fairytale retelling. It's what makes these characters memorable and there's not much I like more than a funny villain - everyone has a sense of humour here. I, for one, am finding it more and more funny with every installment I read. Another thing is the artwork, which I like a lot in this series. The art has to receive a mention when you're reading a graphic novel because it inevitably affects how you read the story and how you view the characters. I tend to prefer realistic drawings, as opposed to arty, scrawly messes that are supposed to set some kind of tone. Give me this instead any day: This first volume opens with the discovery of Rose Red's destroyed apartment. The place has been turned on its head and blood is splattered on every surface. Bigby Wolf and <---C>Snow White</---C> must investigate... can all that blood really be Rose Red's? Is she dead? Who would have a reason to hurt her? This first story is enjoyable and, in my opinion, they just keep getting better. ..................................................................... I just want to take this opportunity to also recommend the TV show Once Upon A Time. Originally, they were planning to make a show out of Fables but they modified it a bit and Once Upon A Time came out the other end. And it's a favourite of mine - you should check it out! ...more This seems like a solid start to a series. The fairy tale characters' homeland has been taken over by an enemy called The Adversary and have fled to the mundane world we live in. Snow White is a politician who works for the Mayor, King Cole, and The Big Bad Wolf is the sheriff. Snow White's sister, Rose Red, has apparently been murdered and the crime must be solved. The solving of the crime and big reveal wasn't really anything special, but there is a great premise set up with a lot of potential. This seems like a solid start to a series. The fairy tale characters' homeland has been taken over by an enemy called The Adversary and have fled to the mundane world we live in. Snow White is a politician who works for the Mayor, King Cole, and The Big Bad Wolf is the sheriff. Snow White's sister, Rose Red, has apparently been murdered and the crime must be solved. The solving of the crime and big reveal wasn't really anything special, but there is a great premise set up with a lot of potential. The characters we have all heard of are tweaked and often the result is really funny. I think my favorite line was with Pinocchio. He's at the Fabletown yearly gala and complains about having to always come to the ball because he's looking for the fairy who turned him into a real boy: I'm over three centuries old and I still haven't gone through puberty. I want to grow up, I want my balls to drop, and I want to get laid.\" HAHA Rose Red, the party girl: Bluebeard, who spars with Cinderella in one scene: Prince Charming is a mooching womanizer: Overall, I enjoyed this and plan to continue. ...more 3 Stars So this Graphic Novel was very reminiscent of 'Once Upon a Time' for me. Our fairy tale creatures have been thrown into modern-day world and basically just have to deal with it... Awesome!! I love that shit. Beyond being our introduction to the characters within the world, and some personalities that maybe don't exactly meet expectations, this first volume is a murder mystery. Rose Red has disappeared, leaving behind an apartment splattered with blood and a big old mess. Our unlikely Sher 3 Stars So this Graphic Novel was very reminiscent of 'Once Upon a Time' for me. Our fairy tale creatures have been thrown into modern-day world and basically just have to deal with it... Awesome!! I love that shit. Beyond being our introduction to the characters within the world, and some personalities that maybe don't exactly meet expectations, this first volume is a murder mystery. Rose Red has disappeared, leaving behind an apartment splattered with blood and a big old mess. Our unlikely Sherlock and Holmes Duo is B. Wolfe and Snow. This volume was so much fun, guys!! I thoroughly enjoyed getting to see how all these characters were getting on in the big, wide world of norms. Everyone : Dude, what's with the three stars then?? Vampire Ninja : I didn't care for the art, at all. *shrugs* ...more Legends in Exile by <---A>Bill Willingham</---A> and a team of illustrators begin the Fables series of adult graphic novels. This is a very imaginative extension of fables such as Snow White, Old King Cole, the big bad wolf, Jack and the Beanstalk, etc. The idea is that the fables were exiled from their home lands by a common enemy, The Adversary, and relocated to New York but maintained a community of exiles called Fable Town. Very entertaining and creative. One of the best scenes is a self-pitying monologu Legends in Exile by Bill Willingham and a team of illustrators begin the Fables series of adult graphic novels. This is a very imaginative extension of fables such as Snow White, Old King Cole, the big bad wolf, Jack and the Beanstalk, etc. The idea is that the fables were exiled from their home lands by a common enemy, The Adversary, and relocated to New York but maintained a community of exiles called Fable Town. Very entertaining and creative. One of the best scenes is a self-pitying monologue by Pinocchio. ...more Lovely lovely lovely. Since I'm a huge fan of fairytales from all over the globe, it was just a matter of time before I started this charming comic series about a number of fairytale characters living in our world in exile after some \"adversary\" took their kingdoms (yes, all of them, one after another). This first volume introduces us to the colourful and diverse community they have established which is basically run by Snow White. The day-to-day routine is interrupted when one of the Fables, as they call themselves, Since I'm a huge fan of fairytales from all over the globe, it was just a matter of time before I started this charming comic series about a number of fairytale characters living in our world in exile after some \"adversary\" took their kingdoms (yes, all of them, one after another). This first volume introduces us to the colourful and diverse community they have established which is basically run by Snow White. The day-to-day routine is interrupted when one of the Fables, as they call themselves, is murdered. The set-up with the Big Bad Wolf as Fabletown's sheriff is very well done and I like Bigby very much (yes, especially his wolf form ;P). Snow White as a clever, snarky, independent woman running the government was quite nice as well. Other than that, there were quite a lot of chuckle-worthy situations and the play with fairytale tropes and potential what-happened-afterwards was cleverly done (although some are sad of course, no matter how predictable they were). Moreover, I'm a sucker for murder mysteries. Always have been. So the combination was just one more thing to draw me in. Throughout the entire tale I was therefore very well entertained although I figured out the murder mystery pretty early on. The art is very pretty too, colourful but not chaotic, rich with detail. So the book is witty and fun and beautiful and I will definitely continue this series (the printed versions since they will look lovely on my shelf). As a side note, and this has nothing to do with this comic or my rating of it, I'm just saying: Snow White is NOT the sister of Rose Red. The fairytale is called Schneewei\u00dfchen und Rosenrot. Rosenrot is Rose Red and \"wittchen\" (from Schneewittchen) is an old version of \"wei\u00dfchen\" which is a belittlement of wei\u00df (white), but Schneewei\u00dfchen is not the English Snow White. In the respective fairytales, Snow White was the only daughter of a King and Queen, while Schneewei\u00dfchen und Rosenrot are sisters from a normal family that meet a bear and help him - the bear turning out to be a prince, marrying Schneewei\u00dfchen while Rosenrot marries the prince's younger brother. I don't know if there is no distinction in the English language because of the names, but just so you know. ;) *end of know-it-all mode* And another side-note: Other than that, I discovered a character I don't actually know about (Boy Blue?) so my research begins. :) P.S.: I had to grin like a loony when reading the name Grimble - Sean? xD ...more Welcome, queer folk of the modern age, welcome! The queer folk of the Fabled lands of legends are now living as exiles in your very queer world indeed and they seem to have adapted very well by creating this very secret society called Fabletown. Oh, don't bother looking for them for you will never recognize them. From wearing pretty gowns and armour, from fighting against evil and saving princesses, these folks have changed tremendously. They have lost their touch with magic and true love for your Welcome, queer folk of the modern age, welcome! The queer folk of the Fabled lands of legends are now living as exiles in your very queer world indeed and they seem to have adapted very well by creating this very secret society called Fabletown. Oh, don't bother looking for them for you will never recognize them. From wearing pretty gowns and armour, from fighting against evil and saving princesses, these folks have changed tremendously. They have lost their touch with magic and true love for your world is very corrupt indeed. Like I said, you wouldn't even recognize them. But then, you find this book. You pick it up for some light reading. And just like that, you're sucked into their new world in your world. You come to know secrets and shocking revelations and at times, how sexy your once favourite characters have become. But right now, in this particular volume, you realize that Snow White's sister Rose Red is missing. 'Oh dear' you might exclaim or you might just roll your eyes or you might taken it upon yourself to find her and get inside this secret society. Good luck, queer person! You won't be fast enough. Snow White and the Big Bad Wolf team up to find her sister and what a team they make! Don't be alarmed, queer person, the Big Bad Wolf is now the Sheriff of this secret society and he's now a very good wolf indeed. And thus, you are pulled inside this story, lost inside this story and finally, yearning for more tales from this very secret society. Or are they just tales, queer folk of the modern age? Keep your eyes wide open for a fair maiden with a sword up her sleeve, a grumpy looking Sheriff, a red haired vixen, handsome charming men and folks with elvish appearances and also if you have acquired this wonderful first volume, I suggest you start your hunt for the next one! Until next time, queer folk of the modern age! ...more I was told this would be funny . . . ??? Maybe to some people character soup is funny on its own without any kind of actual cleverness? It seems like a pretty lazy form of humor, though, if that is actually humor. Is that humor??? THIS IS A MYSTERY, not a comedy. And a somewhat lame mystery without any comedic elements I could identify. I mean, I haven\u2019t been that big of a fan of mystery story since I was like 10 and read most of the Agatha Christies. I think that was the same year I ate a tuna fi I was told this would be funny . . . ??? Maybe to some people character soup is funny on its own without any kind of actual cleverness? It seems like a pretty lazy form of humor, though, if that is actually humor. Is that humor??? THIS IS A MYSTERY, not a comedy. And a somewhat lame mystery without any comedic elements I could identify. I mean, I haven\u2019t been that big of a fan of mystery story since I was like 10 and read most of the Agatha Christies. I think that was the same year I ate a tuna fish sandwich almost every day. I learned my overdose lesson for the most part that year, but I still gag a little when I smell tuna. And I lost the suspense you\u2019re supposed to have at a mystery. It got replaced with boredom. But, also, this was a REALLY obvious mystery. I like mysteries like Gaudy Night or the Sarah Caudwell s, where it\u2019s more about the story than the mystery. Those are great. I have a slight sense that this was supposed to be about the characters, too, but that didn\u2019t make it enjoyable to me. I don\u2019t get this thing of taking fairy tales and going, \u201cWhat if we made all of the characters super unpleasant?! People will love it!\u201d Why? I mean, I guess there is a sort of a Dina Goldstein motivation of saying, this is how fairy tales work out in real life. But, Dina Goldstein is a goddess of concise, poignant visual impact. This story just didn\u2019t have the same immediate resonance, and I don\u2019t necessarily think it was trying for that. It mostly just seemed like it was going for making characters unpleasant, not necessarily more realistic. It floundered, and then in the end it seemed to somehow have actually been mostly about how (view spoiler) [the big bad wolf has a crush on Snow White (hide spoiler) ] . I don\u2019t get it, and whatever it is, it was not funny. It was totally not horrible, though.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more 3.5 stars Such an interesting and fun concept! I definitely enjoyed reading this volume which represents the perfect introduction to this story's characters and the world they live in. This volume is like one big investigation and I really enjoyed trying to figure out what happened to Rose Red. Also, Snow White is a bad ass. Love her. Looking forward to reading the sequel! This was a pretty fun read, though since the premise was better than the execution, my rating is actually a 3.5. Fairy tale and nursery rhyme characters are forced to make it in the big city after their worlds are overthrown by the mysterious \"Adversary\". Bigby Wolf owns a detective agency and he's hired by Snow White to investigate the disappearance of her sister, Rose Red. In this tale meant strictly for grown-ups, Jack, of Beanstalk fame, is quite the social climber, and Prince Charming turns This was a pretty fun read, though since the premise was better than the execution, my rating is actually a 3.5. Fairy tale and nursery rhyme characters are forced to make it in the big city after their worlds are overthrown by the mysterious \"Adversary\". Bigby Wolf owns a detective agency and he's hired by Snow White to investigate the disappearance of her sister, Rose Red. In this tale meant strictly for grown-ups, Jack, of Beanstalk fame, is quite the social climber, and Prince Charming turns out to be a real heel. There'll be no happily ever afters for this bunch. ...more \u00c7ok g\u00fczeldi ya :') Masal kahramanlar\u0131n bir araya toplanmas\u0131 \u00e7ok ho\u015fuma gitti. Once Upon A Time \u00f6zledi\u011fimi fark ettim okurken :D Fractured faery tales and contemporary reimaginings of the classic fables have proliferated over the last several decades. Perhaps marked by the playfulness of postmodern revisitation, traditional narratives have seemed a ripe harvest for gleaning new meaning from old stock. So with Bill Willingham and Mark Buckingham\u2019s Fables , we can\u2019t really find ourselves wowed by the ingenuity of exploring third-millennium expressions of old yarns\u2014after all, it\u2019s not as if it hasn\u2019t been done often and recen Fractured faery tales and contemporary reimaginings of the classic fables have proliferated over the last several decades. Perhaps marked by the playfulness of postmodern revisitation, traditional narratives have seemed a ripe harvest for gleaning new meaning from old stock. So with Bill Willingham and Mark Buckingham\u2019s Fables , we can\u2019t really find ourselves wowed by the ingenuity of exploring third-millennium expressions of old yarns\u2014after all, it\u2019s not as if it hasn\u2019t been done often and recently. Still, since Fables is a wonderful series, its charms must lie elsewhere from the bland ingenuity of simply traveling well-trod roads. Fables is, plainly stated, a wonderful series. It does indeed follow the figures of numerous traditional faery tales, fables, nursery rhymes, and best-beloved stories. It does indeed give them modern lives. And it does indeed attempt to interpret their predilections through a number of contemporary filters. Its successes in these reinterpretations are varied, with some faring better with some readers than with others\u2014there have been some understandable frustrations with the fates, expressions, and motivations of both female and male characters, depending on what a reader brings to the text. Fables works well not just as Story As Story, but as a commentary on the contemporary reader. Obviously, the work says many things about its creators, but just as interesting are the reactions it provokes in its readership\u2014whether joy or frustration or pleasure or groans or interest or rage. When embedded fans of the series will devote their time and energy to incisive critique and critical readings, that is the mark of a worthwhile read. Some readers take issue with some of Willingham\u2019s female characters and their sometimes provincial outlook on life and on male/female natures and interactions. Others find the portrayal of Arabian fables to be stereotyped and representative of the book\u2019s missed opportunities. Others boggle at the treatment of contemporary political matters, whether the abortion question or Israeli foreign policy. It is a powerful work that can elicit such responses from its mature readership and still garner praise from many of its detractors. Fables \u2019 foundation is built on the idea that all the faery tales and nursery rhymes that have been expressed over the centuries in our world are somehow reflections on a multitude of very real other worlds. Worlds in which Snow White and Rose Red live and breathe. Worlds in which the Big Bad Wolf roams around large and hungry. Worlds in which Boy Blue, Red Riding Hood, Beauty and her Beast, Pinocchio, and more each have full lives only hinted at in our own versions of their stories. And circumstances being what they were, these auspicious figures were forced to evacuate their fabled realms and flee here, to the mundane world. Because a grave and merciless Adversary had begun conquering their lands one after another, the fables found themselves escaped to 1600s Europe from where they then made passage to the New World. There, they established in New Amsterdam an enclave they call Fabletown. Protected by numerous spells and wards, Fabletown sits undiscovered in the midst of the growing New York City\u2014and that is where Willingham first deposits the reader, four hundred years later. The fables have grown comfortable in their adopted homeland, leading relatively normal lives and holding jobs. Of course things are more complicated than that, but that is our introduction to what turns out to be a collection of indelible characters. Characterization is one of Fables \u2019 three main strong points. Each fable has his or her or its surface story, the one that may be an amusing take on the legend. Pinocchio is an embittered 400-year-old in the body of a ten-year-old boy. Kind of like Edward Cullen but with a lot less sex. Beast is human most of the time, but begins falling back into his monstrous appearance as his wife\u2019s love for him wanes. Goldilocks, married to Baby Bear, is an activist for interspecies marriage. Prince Charming, having wed Snow White, Cinderella, and Sleeping Beauty is known as the town cad. Amusing, sure, but not much beyond that. And if that was where Willingham left his characters, Fables would grow stale at a rapid clip. Fortunately, the stories and backstories of these fables pretty quickly begin to show some depth and thought. These are full-bodied individuals whose motives and actions begin to make sense through the perpetual revelation of who they really are. No character remains mere stereotype. And with a single exception (due to personal taste), each of these characters have become dear to me. The second strength of the series is its seemingly endless well of narrative ideas. Willingham continues to bring new and fresh developments to this company of fables and seems to actively eschew any sort of status quo. The series just hit its 100th chapter and Willingham shows no evident signs of flagging. After what seemed to be his first-act climax, I couldn\u2019t be sure where he would take the story. It seemed as if, having wrapped up what probably could have been the series-long conflict, he didn\u2019t have much elsewhere to go and yet even now, we\u2019re seeing new story branches and hints of developments to come. I continue to anticipate a long and fruitful series. The other great strength of Fables is its art. And while the seventy or so James Jean-painted covers are a mighty beauty to behold, it is Mark Buckingham\u2019s interior design work and character drawing that really pulls the series together. While many of the guest artists do well with what they\u2019re given, I am always thirsty for the series to return to Buckingham\u2019s hands. His art is not flashy in the overly detailed sense that has sometimes been a boon but mostly plagued mainstream books for the last two decades. He is steady and inventive and illustrates these fables with power and grace. Personally, this is one of my favorite books to pick up every time a new collected volume comes out. I anticipate each new arch in the story and am rarely let down. In sixteen volumes (and one prose novel), the book has only been Not Good twice (individual reader frustrations over socio-political matters aside). Unfortunately, one of those books is the reason I have a hard time recommending the series. Because it\u2019s the very first book. It\u2019s pretty aggravating, but the first volume of this otherwise wonderful series\u2014the one in which all the principal characters are introduced\u2014is really just a mediocre book. It holds none of the charm of the later series. Essentially, whenever I do recommend the series (as I am doing now), I have to caveat by saying: \u201cNo matter what you think of the first volume, keep going and read the second one. And then the third. It just gets better and better.\u201d Really, the next rough patch doesn\u2019t crop up until volume thirteen,* so that\u2019s a pretty good spread. In any case, if you\u2019re a mature reader, I highly recommend Fables as an entertaining, thoughtful exploration of characters with whom you\u2019re likely familiar in circumstances that are new and fresh. Notes: * I know. Others will point to the Arabian fables volume. Or the Wedding. Or any number of other points that illustrate issues that one may take up they interpret the book. And that\u2019s fair. But, those are judgments on volumes based on personal values, not on the merits of comic-craft and storytelling. Volume thirteen is objectively Not Good,** whether one takes issue with any socio-political matters contained therein or not. ** Insofar as anything in the realm of deciding whether or not you like a comic book can actually be considered objectively. [review courtesy of Good Ok Bad ] ...more I have finally caught up on the current 70 issues (Vol. 1-10) of \u2018Fables\u2019 and am at a loss of words about how great this series truly is. Willingham, Jean, and Buckingham have created a highly imaginative world of depth, maturity, and beauty in all possible aspects. They have managed to redefine and present characters in a universe I have grown to sincerely care about. I originally intended to write a lengthy spoiler-filled review but found I cannot, as I feel I should refrain until the series c I have finally caught up on the current 70 issues (Vol. 1-10) of \u2018Fables\u2019 and am at a loss of words about how great this series truly is. Willingham, Jean, and Buckingham have created a highly imaginative world of depth, maturity, and beauty in all possible aspects. They have managed to redefine and present characters in a universe I have grown to sincerely care about. I originally intended to write a lengthy spoiler-filled review but found I cannot, as I feel I should refrain until the series comes to a close. But so far, \u2018Fables\u2019 is a magical epic classic in the making, surely to cement itself as one of the best graphic stories in years. \u2018Fables\u2019 is brimmed with reinvigorating characters, refreshing dialogue that stays near and dear to its roots, and a mindful continuity that works through practical, technical, and mythological proportions. The way Willingham and company has brought (and bridged) a plethora of traditional folklore tales into modernity with a believable mythical history is nothing short of genius. This series truly has everything needed to grasp, wrangle, shock, and posses the readers attention, direly leaving them asking for more. If you have any knowledge of the likes of Red Riding Hood, Snow White, the Big Bad Wolf, etc. than I strongly recommend \u2018Fables,\u2019 in which you'll view these roles in a way you could never have imagined and more. Even if you're not familiar with traditional folklore, 'Fables' will only expand your interest, as it did mine. I anxiously await the forthcoming stories! ...more Bullet Review: A VERY enjoyable read even for a mystery/who-dunnit (these are touchy for me). Can't wait for the rest of the series! Grabbed this comic off the bargain pile because the premise seemed promising: all the characters from fairy tales have been exiled in New York City because of some mysterious adversary that slaughtered their people and forced them out of their fairy tale land. If the authors had simply stuck to THAT premise, it would have made for a cool story. Instead, the first volume disintegrates into nothing more than a comparatively lame murder mystery (in the style of \"Clue\") over \"Who Killed Rose Red\". A Grabbed this comic off the bargain pile because the premise seemed promising: all the characters from fairy tales have been exiled in New York City because of some mysterious adversary that slaughtered their people and forced them out of their fairy tale land. If the authors had simply stuck to THAT premise, it would have made for a cool story. Instead, the first volume disintegrates into nothing more than a comparatively lame murder mystery (in the style of \"Clue\") over \"Who Killed Rose Red\". A friend of mine put it best: \"The whole M.O. of this book is just to be able to laugh and feel happy about the fact that 'Snow White is a whore.'\" It's a fun enough read if, like me, you find it for dirt cheap. But otherwise, rather disappointing. ...more I feel like reviewing each issue as I go, so take that, reader. Fables: Chapter #1 -- \"Old Tales Revisited\": There are times when everything is stacked against a work. For me, that time comes most often when everyone and everything is telling me that I should and will adore the work in question. Fables is my case in point. It is a multi-award winning, literature based satire/allegory that multiple reviewers, whom I trust, and friends have recommended, but Fables cannot survive that weight (at leas I feel like reviewing each issue as I go, so take that, reader. Fables: Chapter #1 -- \"Old Tales Revisited\": There are times when everything is stacked against a work. For me, that time comes most often when everyone and everything is telling me that I should and will adore the work in question. Fables is my case in point. It is a multi-award winning, literature based satire/allegory that multiple reviewers, whom I trust, and friends have recommended, but Fables cannot survive that weight (at least not in this first chapter). I finished \"Old Tales Revisited\" baffled by the fuss. I found it not at all original (I know, I know, how can it be when it is playing with fairy tales? But \"Fractured Fairy Tales\" from Bullwinkle and Rocky were original, so it is possible), not at all entertaining, and not at all worth my time. Thus, I will, of course, be continuing with the next issue right away (probably tonight). Fables: Chapter #2 -- \"The (Un)Usual Suspect\": So the investigation has begun and Bigby, the humanized Big Bad Wolf, is being fleshed out as a character. We see him hanging out with an embittered Pig of the Three Little Pigs fame, and we get some dumb jokes about \"ham & eggs,\" and that is precisely what this comic is shaping up to be so far: an excuse for dumb jokes and \"fabulist\" stupidity. It's off-putting, and it constantly pushes me out of the world. What Willingham most needed was a strong editor to cut through the crap because the mystery of Rose Red's murder (kidnapping?) could have been okay. Here's the other thing ... why is it that when a mash-up occurs from one genre to another it is always a mash-up with Mystery? I'm guessing because it is easy. But wouldn't it be more interesting, more unique, more worthy of praise to mash-Fables-up with something less used and abused? I think so. Finally, I am hating Snow White, and digging Prince Charming. Less of the former and more of the latter, please. Fables: Chapter #3 -- \"Blood Tells\": My real problem with this series is beginning to coalesce. It is not fully formed, and it could be overturned by future chapters, but my problem with Fables at the moment is that the modernized Fables aren't working for me. I am sure Bill Willingham thinks it's clever to put the Fables in the modern world, but why, I wonder, would the Fables have to fight their natures? Surely they could just be who they were in the past in the modern world, using the modern world to further their initial desires, to bring their fables and fairy tales into modernity. He flirts with that with one or two characters, but the bulk of the characters go against their nature, and it certainly seems that way with Bigby (the main character?) at the moment. Perhaps this has something to do with the Adversary, but I know nothing of him/her/it at the moment, and all I see are characters not staying true to their natures. It ain't working for me. Fables: Chapter #4 -- \"Remembrance Day\": The segregation of the human (or passably human) and the inhuman in this book pisses me off. Not only does it have the stink of that old stand-by of fantasy -- racism -- about it, but it is also lazy story telling. It doesn't have to be this way, and at this point not enough is being done to explain the segregation. All it does is raise questions for me. Why, for instance, must the Fables live in New York, or any big city for that matter? Why can't the inuman Fables in the New York Zoo, or within a self-contained, wizard enclosed (you know, like Bluebeard's castle in an apartmen), city positioned menagerie? No good answer for either of these questions, yet segregation is put forward as a necessity, and even the law. Is this intentional commentary? Or is this just something the author thought was clever without consideration of its potential subtext? I am leaning towards the latter. There's one more chance for Willingham to capture me as an ongoing audience member, but I won't be making any wagers in that direction. Fables: Chapter #5 -- \"The Famous Parlor Room Scene (Sans Parlor)\": I noticed this on the cover of my book last night before I read Chapter 5: \"[Fables is] a top-notch fantasy comic that is on par with Sandman.\" ~~Variety. I say, \"Fuck off!\" to that. That's like saying My Little Pony is on par with Swamp Thing. Trust me. Variety is wrong (even if this series gets better). Fables: Supplemental #1 -- \"A Wolf in the Fold\": Perhaps there is more going on in Bill Willingham's brain than what makes it into the first Fables arc (which doesn't surprise me, but it may drive me further in the series). Included in this first volume is an origin story about the Wolf's importance in the escape from the Adversary and his long term love for Snow White. It's is much, much better than the graphic novel that preceded it, and I think if that had been the story proper I'd have loved the first shot of Fables rather than the annoyance I felt. Too bad this tale was only a background story. It's better than the story Willingham chose to tell. Fables: Shameless Advertising #1 -- \"The Price of a Happy Ending\": It's the first excerpt from another work in the greater Fables universe, wherein a fire breathing Raven talks a pair of Fables into some covert black ops in the war, black ops that will alleviate some of the necessary genoiced. It's tantalizing, certainly more interesting in these few pages than the first arc of the series proper, but I think Chris's statement in the comments is still a more compelling reason to continue. Fables: Shameless Advertisng #2 -- \"Animal Farm\": Hmmm ... this looks much more promising, and since it is the direct continuation of \"Legends in Exile\" I can actually see myself giving this a crack. I like that Willingham is addressing, to some extent, the disparity between the city dwellers and those on the farm. I am not sure that he is conscious of the racism yet, but I've a feeling he may be; if not conscious then it is depressingly present in a way that will kill the story for me entirely, but this bit of advertising may actually have worked for me. Fables: Shameless Advertising #3 -- \"Fairest\": So the ad for the comic focused on the Princesses begins with the Prince of Thieves sneaking through a camp of goblins to smoock a princess or two. Cool art. Don't care. ...more Rose Red is dead \u2013 who killed her? It\u2019s up to Bigby Wolf, Fabletown\u2019s gumshoe, to track down the killer. What I really like about the first volume of Fables is that it doesn\u2019t read like a first volume of a multi-volume series - it reads like a standalone book. I\u2019m sure Rose Red plays a big part later on but this book is concerned more with the done-in-one murder mystery than it is in explicitly detailing to the reader all about the world of the series, etc. The genius of this approach is that Bil Rose Red is dead \u2013 who killed her? It\u2019s up to Bigby Wolf, Fabletown\u2019s gumshoe, to track down the killer. What I really like about the first volume of Fables is that it doesn\u2019t read like a first volume of a multi-volume series - it reads like a standalone book. I\u2019m sure Rose Red plays a big part later on but this book is concerned more with the done-in-one murder mystery than it is in explicitly detailing to the reader all about the world of the series, etc. The genius of this approach is that Bill Willingham introduces the cast of the series, gives us their characters and their situations within the self-contained story, so it manages to do everything a first volume should while also presenting itself as a standalone book, meaning everyone from casual readers looking for a good story to those who\u2019re in for the long haul can get something out of this first volume. I\u2019m not usually one for crime dramas/police procedurals, and the reveal at the end isn\u2019t at all original, but the story in this first volume is an entertaining whodunit thanks to its colourful cast. Our grizzled (and he is grizzled!) detective is Bigby Wolf (aka the Big Bad Wolf) who, along with Snow White, Deputy Mayor of Fablestown and sister of Rose Red, sets out to bring Rose\u2019s killer to justice. Rather than meeting a series of nondescript characters during the investigation, you\u2019re introduced to someone you\u2019ll remember from your childhood in each scene - it\u2019s Beauty and the Beast! Is that\u2026 Bluebeard? Jack - like Jack and the Beanstalk? Willingham\u2019s taken their character and twisted it just so, so that they\u2019re familiar but new at the same time. We\u2019ve seen it done numerous times before (probably most famously by the Shrek movies) but it works in this comic because of Willingham\u2019s strong characterisation and inspired writing. Lan Medina\u2019s wonderful designs help in realising the characters. They look like you\u2019d expect to a degree so they\u2019re recognisable when you first see them but have just enough nuance to them to make you look closer. I especially liked the jaded talking pig who returns from the farm to the city to crash on Bigby\u2019s couch - Bigby owes him after blowing his house down! And when you\u2019re wondering how what when etc., Willingham provides just enough background information on how the Fables came to live in our world so that it\u2019s sufficient for readers to enjoy this book alone with room to explore it further in later books \u2013 again, ingenious! I\u2019m sure some readers will feel the brief section on The Adversary wasn\u2019t enough but I\u2019m also sure it\u2019s explored more in the dozens of other books that follow this. It\u2019s taken me a while to get around to picking up Fables but I\u2019m glad I did. It\u2019s enjoyable, original, and this first volume is a fine place to start giving the reader a good taste of what the series is about and a decent murder mystery too - I\u2019m definitely on board for the second volume! If you\u2019ve been putting it off because of the abundance of cheesy fairy tales with a 21st century post-modern take in pop culture, put those fears aside and give Fables a shot. ...more Characters of Fairy Tale land, meet the crew from CSI! At least, the plot of this volume seems like something you would see out of an episode of \u201cCSI: Crime Scene Investigation!\u201d Brief Introduction: After I have been hearing so many good things about the \u201cFable\u201d series, I just had to check this series out for myself! So, I picked up the first volume of \u201cFables\u201d called \u201cFables: Legends in Exile\u201d and I must admit that this volume did have me interested in reading more from the \u201cFables\u201d series, s Characters of Fairy Tale land, meet the crew from CSI! At least, the plot of this volume seems like something you would see out of an episode of \u201cCSI: Crime Scene Investigation!\u201d Brief Introduction: After I have been hearing so many good things about the \u201cFable\u201d series, I just had to check this series out for myself! So, I picked up the first volume of \u201cFables\u201d called \u201cFables: Legends in Exile\u201d and I must admit that this volume did have me interested in reading more from the \u201cFables\u201d series, so we will have to see what will happen next in the fantastic \u201cFables\u201d series! What is the story? In Fabletown, where all the fairy tale characters lived alongside normal human beings in New York, a murder case is afoot when Snow White\u2019s sister, Rose Red is brutally murdered and only Bigby, a detective formally known as the Big Bad Wolf, is on the case to find her murderer! What I loved about this comic: Fairy tales, Fairy tales, Fairy tales and Bill Willingham\u2019s writing!: If there is one thing I love so much about reading books, is that I have the opportunity to read about fairy tales! I just love reading about fairy tales and folktales in general and after I heard about a comic book series that was going to dedicate most of their characters to famous fairy tale characters such as Snow White, the Big Bad Wolf and Bluebeard, I just had to pick this series up to see for myself! I loved the way that Bill Willingham made the fairy tale characters adapt to the modern day world of New York City and I especially loved seeing the fairy tale characters take on jobs in the real world that you would never expect them to do such as the Big Bad Wolf being a detective or Snow White working as the mayor\u2019s deputy, which the mayor happens to be Old King Cole! I also loved the way that Bill Willingham set up the crime scenes in this book as it helped create a sort of suspense to the story and the plot is set up where readers have to find the clues to the murder of Rose Red either through the clues set up in the story or through the Big Bad Wolf who is on the case! The artwork: Lan Medina\u2019s drawing of the characters is so brilliantly done as all the characters look extremely realistic and sort of echo the comics that you would normally see in detective comics. I also loved the coloring done by Sherilyn van Valkenburgh as the colorings in the artwork made the artwork truly effective, especially when there were moments where the characters were in dark areas and the colors just darken to reflect the nighttime during those scenes. [image error] What made me feel uncomfortable about this book: The reason why I gave this volume a four star rating was because I felt that the story dragged on a bit too long in some scenes and I was wishing that there was more action in the story. Also, there were several mentions in this volume about why the fairy tale characters ended up in New York since they were exiled from their homeland by an evil being called the Adversary and I wanted to know more about the Adversary and how the fairy tale characters will get their homeland back. I will admit, it was a little jarring to suddenly be thrown into a murder case without really getting to know the characters first, but I guess we might learn more about the characters in the future, so we will have to see. Also, for anyone who does not like strong language, this volume has got plenty of strong language that you cannot even imagine, even though I am used to this kind of strong language after reading Neil Gaiman\u2019s fantastic \u201cSandman\u201d series. Final Thoughts: Overall, \u201cFables: Legends in Exile\u201d is a good start to learning more about the fairy tale characters that were introduced in this volume and hopefully, the other volumes afterwards would explain more about the Adversary and how the fairy tale characters will get their homeland back. Now, I am definitely looking forward to reading the next volumes in this series! Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog ...more Very, very entertaining. Classic fairy tale characters; residing in a modern 21st century NY-setting; with a mature, straightforward way of presentation and exceptionally refreshing characterization; interwoven in a pure good old fashioned murder mystery plot (or more accurately disappearance mystery) developing with biting humor, brisk pacing and great writing-quality; all the while maintaining a vintage neo-noirish style of storytelling complete with a Humphrey Bogart-lookalike chain-smoking, Very, very entertaining. Classic fairy tale characters; residing in a modern 21st century NY-setting; with a mature, straightforward way of presentation and exceptionally refreshing characterization; interwoven in a pure good old fashioned murder mystery plot (or more accurately disappearance mystery) developing with biting humor, brisk pacing and great writing-quality; all the while maintaining a vintage neo-noirish style of storytelling complete with a Humphrey Bogart-lookalike chain-smoking, loosed tie plus trenchcoat-wearing, badass tough as nails detective: formerly Big Bad Wolf now a reformed Bigby Wolf , Fabletown's sheriff and the most dangerous person, and a heartachingly beautiful yet ultrastrong-willed, sharp-minded woman of iron-hard personality as his apparent client: Snow White , Fabletown's superbly efficient and absolutely nononsense Deputy Mayor with a hilarious potty mouth.... A perfect recipe for a thoroughly imaginative and engrossing read where the pages just flyby themselves! On top of it all, everything is presented in visually imaginative, colorful, magnificently detailed, stunning artworks and illustrations. Highly recommended for anyone who loves a great fairy tale-retelling or a tightly plotted murder-mystery. 9 out of 10 There's also a short prose story at the end of the book, which was a brilliant piece of writing greatly expanding the characterization of our brooding hero Mr. Wolf with enough background, depth and motivation behind his enigmatic character to give us a better understanding of him. It also gave a clear backstory of exactly how and when these fairy-tale people came in our world, and a brief, yet significent perception of why the Fabletown community was created maintaining a peace among all the Fables, even with someone as dangerous as the Big Bad Wolf. ...more The Fables series starts off in medias res , with the daily business of running the small secret community interrupted by a murder investigation. Many of the major characters are introduced, but in retrospect it is clear that the characters are still in flux and that the larger story arc has not yet begun. As the beginning of a long story with very rich material this is surprisingly slight. I'm glad I read a later installment first so I knew it gets better. This was enjoyable, but I personally prefer more complicated mythology that I have to figure out for myself. So I may continue on with this series, but I don't feel especially compelled by it. On the other hand, it was great to have a closed story arc in these first five issues! This graphic novel really couldn't impress me that much. The straight visual quality is good but, despite the fairytale origins this story's meant to be drawing on \u2013 an immediate attraction, to me \u2013 the majority of the graphics are sadly simplistic. The graphics are the meat of a graphic novel, right? \u2013 and no matter how good the mashed potato text is, you can't have a good meal without a juicy (soy) steak, rich and chewable to the eyes. Compared to the finer graphic novels, there seems to be a This graphic novel really couldn't impress me that much. The straight visual quality is good but, despite the fairytale origins this story's meant to be drawing on \u2013 an immediate attraction, to me \u2013 the majority of the graphics are sadly simplistic. The graphics are the meat of a graphic novel, right? \u2013 and no matter how good the mashed potato text is, you can't have a good meal without a juicy (soy) steak, rich and chewable to the eyes. Compared to the finer graphic novels, there seems to be a lack of revelry-in-detail here as far as the visuals go. If I were the artists, I would have wanted to embellish a lot more thoroughly with any well- or lesser-known fairytale/fable reference that For that matter, the same is true for the plot. A fake-murder whodunit with the 'chance' (thus totally predictable) creation of a man-woman detective duo, sprinkling behind them the bean-seeds of romance \u2013 sprouting, needless to say, from the male character (\"Bigby\" Big Bad Wolf) and, till he states it explicitly, overlooked by the powerful and businesslike female (Snow White, Director of Operations and icicle of fury if you mention 'dwarves'). What else let me down? Crappy, fails-to-be-suave-when-recycled murder mystery dialogue. The last chapter, the supposed big reveal in more ways than one, is particularly bad on this. An example: \"Then get ON with it, Mr. Wolf. TELL your story. I can't tolerate the SUSPENSE.\" \"When the Lord Mayor of Fabletown COMMANDS, I can only OBEY. \u2013 My suspicions about he TRUE nature of this case were raised the very MOMENT I first learned of it.\" And so on. Here's one of my general beefs with graphic novels: why do the authors feel the need to emphasize in the script the words that we'd know have weight in the run of the sentence, anyway? Regular novelists do it as well, to varying degrees, but do we need it in every single speech bubble of the graphic novel format? I feel as though it engenders a more childlike treatment of the reader than is usually appropriate. Altogether, I also think Willingham could have gone much, much deeper into the world he tries to recreate. It's a fantastic idea, in my opinion: a secret community of fairytale characters, cooling their heels in New York after some mighty power has forced them out of their various kingdoms. I can't even begin to imagine all the fun you could have with that. Unfortunately, this first volume strikes me as only minimally creative, tossed-together with only the most well-known characters \u2013 did I miss anybody, though? If so, I'd be delighted for someone to correct me on this. These characters feel superficially developed, their respective myths incorporated rather too obviously (finer technique would have contributed so much more wit) ... it just feels like a waste of the idea. Not sure how else I can say it. What I did love are the end-of-chapter page graphics. I wish I could copy-enlarge and collage these all over one of my walls. Also, I wish I could give five stars to this page alone from Chapter Four: (Pretty blonde lady approaches a sulky-looking child) \"Hi, Pinocchio. I haven't seen YOU in a while. Enjoying the party?\" \"No. I am most certainly NOT having a good time. I never Have a good time at this ridiculous celebration. \" \"Then why do you come each year?\" \"Because, sooner or later, that blue fairy, who turned me into a REAL boy, is going to show her face at one of these things, and I'm going to kick her pretty azure ASS.\" \"Why? I thought you WANTED to become a real boy.\" \"Of COURSE I did. But who KNEW I'd have to stay a boy FOREVER? The ditzy bitch interpreted my wish too LITERALLY. I'm over three centuries old and I STILL haven't gone through puberty. I want to grow up, I want my balls to drop, and I want to get LAID.\" Rather a sexist portrayal of the \"real boy\", don't you think? Still, I have to admit that I laughed. The sequel really should a sub-plot romance between Nocchy and, say, Gretel or Little Red Riding Hood. That would be adorable. Perhaps, and again I'd love to hear other opinions on this GN - I'm looking for something in Willingham's tale that he never intended to put in it. It's a fun modern re-interpretation, the kind of story that I can see becoming a postmodern 'classic,' if the lost art of oral storytelling were to ever resurface. Such stories don't need complexity, they only need recognizable figures and a relatively engaging plot, which I'd say Fables has got. Since I have the deluxe edition anyway, I am going to read Volume II. Hopefully I'll be able to enjoy it more, knowing what kind of thing to expect. ...more Pretty ding dong cool! The art is wonderful and I adore how gritty and naughty this first collection is! This is how I had always wished Once Upon a Time could have been. Thank goodness a Goodreads friend reviewed this and told me this is what I had been waiting for. It\u2019s the best of Urban Fantasy mixed with the kind of brave stuff I want out of my fairytale reimaginings! It\u2019s enchanting to see the fables shadowing the fair city of New York. The art captures the dark tone of the city itself as w Pretty ding dong cool! The art is wonderful and I adore how gritty and naughty this first collection is! This is how I had always wished Once Upon a Time could have been. Thank goodness a Goodreads friend reviewed this and told me this is what I had been waiting for. It\u2019s the best of Urban Fantasy mixed with the kind of brave stuff I want out of my fairytale reimaginings! It\u2019s enchanting to see the fables shadowing the fair city of New York. The art captures the dark tone of the city itself as well as the beasties that live there. Fabletown seems right at home in the Big Apple. Especially as a violent crime takes place and a murder must be solved! The pacing is well done in these first five volumes as it gives readers the basics and introduces the main players. It introduces The Adversary and how the Fables came to be in the mundane world. (Which is actually a pretty clever and funny story when told by King Cole.) Thankfully that\u2019s not the focus right now. It focuses on how the people of Fabletown are dealing with living in this world and takes place around a murder. While I guessed how it would end, the murder/who dun it part, it was still fun getting to that conclusion with Wolf. What a cast to pick from! Snow White, so far, is the leading lady and boy is she quite the woman! I\u2019m starting to think that White is very popular as she\u2019s the one that always seems to get the most love, and kick ass personality, when she\u2019s reimagined in a story. She\u2019s the Director of Operations of Fabletown, and she handles it amazingly! That\u2019s not to say some of the other ladies don\u2019t get makeovers. I have a feeling that Cinderella and I are going to get a long quite nicely once she gets more page time. Beauty isn\u2019t what I had hoped for, but maybe that will change over time. Rose Red is quite the interesting character, and sure she\u2019s not the normal big princess, but I like her! What\u2019s more is no one has their happily ever after. Two of the \u201cbig\u201d princess have already gone through divorces and one is battling it out for the long haul. Martial issues of the happily ever after kind, too cool. These realistic takes are my bread and butter! Prince Charming is such a slut. Man he\u2019s going to be a character I love to loath. Especially because of his dialogue. There\u2019s some bedroom scene dialogue that practically had me laughing until I hurt. Jack is an interesting type, he\u2019s the quick to make a buck and idiot type. Bluebeard is so fascinating! And scary. I\u2019m going to love his character. Then there\u2019s Bigby Wolf. Ah. No matter the media form I can\u2019t say no to a man who changes into a wolf. To top that this is THE Big Bad Wolf. I\u2019d like him to huff and puff my\u2014OK I\u2019ll stop. (Things could get awkward. Fast.) Wolf is the perfect Sherriff of Fabletown. Not to mention his looks and personality fill that old time cop feel that I love. Solving the murder with him was a true treat. It was a mix of old school detective work and CSI. (Well low tech CSI.) This was a great introductory to the Fables universe. It\u2019s got my attention and I am revved up for the next collection! Plus, I want to know what happened with the Dwarves that makes Snow White so touchy! I need Cinderella's development! As sad as it is to say I need more horridly naughty Charming moments. Wolf. Yeah, totally need more of him. Clearly The Adversary is going to come into conflict, maybe a big battle for the homeland back. For now though I\u2019ll take what the series is offering while it builds up to it. Gritty takes on fables in the modern age! Nothing is off limits. Sexual Content: No nudity, but there is sex. Plenty of sexual humor. Very much adult. 4/5- Great! Really enjoyed it. Originally reviewed at Book Whispers . ...more Having finally returned to the first book in this Fables series I can most certainly state that I am glad I did not begin here. Sure, it's a much shorter work than some of the others - at 127 pages it was a half hour's short demolition job. But, it lacked the wow factor and fantasy elements of later novels. What this became instead was a graphic novel mystery. A book with fairytale characters in it, but that was concerned more with its own little internal arc - a police procedural style graphic Having finally returned to the first book in this Fables series I can most certainly state that I am glad I did not begin here. Sure, it's a much shorter work than some of the others - at 127 pages it was a half hour's short demolition job. But, it lacked the wow factor and fantasy elements of later novels. What this became instead was a graphic novel mystery. A book with fairytale characters in it, but that was concerned more with its own little internal arc - a police procedural style graphic story - handled by Bigby Wolf. As such there were few references to the world-building depth of the entire series and what there were were minor tokens, dropped there to let the reader know they wanted to keep reading. To a degree I understand why this volume proceeded as such. It seems that this entire story can be seen as the 'pilot' for the series and so, as the writers would have been unsure as to whether they could get a readership, they would have played it safe in order to have a more self contained story if the series would not have been able to continue. Which, in hindsight and with the knowledge that this became a series, appears to create an odd, self-contained work. And to me, I would much rather anyone beginning a series take more of a risk with the storytelling. But that is me, because I run with a sense that it is better to shoot for the stars than to never leave the ground. And I think the writers remain more on the ground in this volume. ...more 2.5 stars. This was somewhere between okay and \"I liked it\" hence the 2.5 stars. I really thought I was going to like this more than I did. I love the concept and the graphic novel format but I just thought the execution didn't quite hit the mark. It seemed to go from campy to dark and back again and I just never got sucked in. Anyway, the premise was good enough that I will certainly give the next book in the series a chance and hope for a better experience. Having played the Wolf Among Us game, I knew I was going to love this though I wasn't expecting it to make me gasp from the plot twists etc. I love the little moments of comedy and just the whole concept of Fairy Tale creatures in the real world. I think I just became addicted :) Spoilers The story wasn't all that compelling, probably because the main mystery with Snow White's missing sister was utterly predictable. However, I did like the Fables world as well as most of the characters - I loved how Prince Charming was such a slutty sleaze, and that Bigby/the big bad wolf had one of the three pigs staying overnight at his flat, and Beauty and the Beast's marital problems were pretty funny too. I wasn't all that impressed by the artwork though, it was just okay. I'll proba Spoilers The story wasn't all that compelling, probably because the main mystery with Snow White's missing sister was utterly predictable. However, I did like the Fables world as well as most of the characters - I loved how Prince Charming was such a slutty sleaze, and that Bigby/the big bad wolf had one of the three pigs staying overnight at his flat, and Beauty and the Beast's marital problems were pretty funny too. I wasn't all that impressed by the artwork though, it was just okay. I'll probably read the next few volumes, hopefully future stories won't be quite as generic as this one. ...more This fall I had played 'The Wolf Among Us' which is a video game based off of the characters from 'Fables.' I loved the game and I fell in love with all of the characters in the world. I put it off for quite some time but after about a month I finally gave in and bought Fables Volume One. I was not disappointed. The characters are fantastic as well as the story itself. I have always been a fan of fairy tales and a fan of mysteries. So when you combine the two of them together I am a very happy l This fall I had played 'The Wolf Among Us' which is a video game based off of the characters from 'Fables.' I loved the game and I fell in love with all of the characters in the world. I put it off for quite some time but after about a month I finally gave in and bought Fables Volume One. I was not disappointed. The characters are fantastic as well as the story itself. I have always been a fan of fairy tales and a fan of mysteries. So when you combine the two of them together I am a very happy lady! There's romance and comedy to boot! It's a great fun ride and I only hope that it continues to be as I pick up the rest of the volumes. ...more Thanks to Seak! I pounced on these babies at the library. I checked out Volumes 1-6. Glad I did. I literally got so engrossed with this concept of a story for a comic. Now I am not one for comics. That's a fact. But these, I don't know what it is but i liked this one very much. Especially the part with Pinocchio pissed off cause he hadn't... well I don't like to give things away in my reviews, but trust me... it's hysterical!! On to Volume #2...<+++>Fables, Vol. 1: Legends in Exile</+++>", "Title": "Fables, Vol. 1: Legends in Exile"},
