{"Comments": "This book started with such promise. Pasquale was a great character and I would have enjoyed following his story. The Italian setting was lush and Dee Moray's story was interesting until it got crushed by all the random characters and story lines. Richard Burton and Liz Taylor? Really? Just seemed like a mishmash of people who were trying too hard to convey messages. I could not wait to finish this book and escape from these people who make life so damned complicated for themselves and others. F This book started with such promise. Pasquale was a great character and I would have enjoyed following his story. The Italian setting was lush and Dee Moray's story was interesting until it got crushed by all the random characters and story lines. Richard Burton and Liz Taylor? Really? Just seemed like a mishmash of people who were trying too hard to convey messages. I could not wait to finish this book and escape from these people who make life so damned complicated for themselves and others. For me, the constant changing of past and present times was often disjointed. I did not see anything beautiful, only the ruins of a hyperactive plot. Yet there were a few lines that had meaning to me: \"Pasqo, the smaller the space between your desire and what is right, the happier you will be.\" \"All we have is the story we tell.\" \"No one gets to tell you what your life means!\" \"And even if they don't find what they're looking for, isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?\" ...more Preconcetti sventato ancora una volta! Whoever designed the cover of this novel and came up with its title (because I refuse to believe either of these disasters were <---A>Jess Walter</---A>\u2019s doing) must have had one thing in mind: make this book appear to be as much of a chick-lit beach read as possible. And yes, while there are certainly elements of the chick-lit beach read here\u2014some tender relationships,<---M> a sprinkle of sentimentality</---M>, a romance or twelve\u2014it would be highly unfair to categorize it as so, b Preconcetti sventato ancora una volta! Whoever designed the cover of this novel and came up with its title (because I refuse to believe either of these disasters were Jess Walter\u2019s doing) must have had one thing in mind: make this book appear to be as much of a chick-lit beach read as possible. And yes, while there are certainly elements of the chick-lit beach read here\u2014some tender relationships, a sprinkle of sentimentality, a romance or twelve\u2014it would be highly unfair to categorize it as so, because this book smashes that label to pieces and even transcends whichever other label one might try to apply to it. Beat that, labels! Walter is a skilled writer. For such a short book with its surprisingly large cast of characters, including (believe it or not) Richard Burton , Walter manages to do draw out each of them fully and beautifully, flaws and all. Traversing from post-war Italy to modern-day Hollywood and back again, the plot is expertly constructed. Though it does, at times, meander into predictable territory, it never stays there long, and the care with which Walter crafts the relationships among his characters\u2014whether it be between a mother and her son, a young man and his comrade, or a widow and her never-forgotten flame\u2014is a care reminiscent of that shown by Krauss in The History of Love . In fact, I think both novels succeed on a similar level (besides shattering my preconceptions), which is to address the often competing themes of desire and responsibility, imagining the possibilities of a life-that-could-have-been while ultimately reconciling it with the life-that-is.<---F> But also, yes</---F>. It is a love story: And the robot loves his master, alien loves his saucer, Superman loves Lois, Lex, and Lana, Luke loves Leia (till he finds out she\u2019s his sister), and the exorcist loves the demon even as he leaps out the window with it, in full soulful embrace, as Leo loves Kate and they both love the sinking ship, and the shark\u2014God, the shark loves to eat, which is what the mafioso loves, too\u2014eating and money and Paulie and omert\u00e0 \u2014the way the cowboy loves his horse, loves the corseted girl behind the piano bar, and sometimes loves the other cowboy, as the vampire loves night and neck, and the zombie\u2014don\u2019t even start with the zombie, sentimental fool; has anyone ever been more lovesick than a zombie, that pale, dull metaphor for love, all animal craving and lurching, outstretched arms, his very existence a sonnet about how much he wants those brains? This, too, is a love story. And also, yes. Parts of it do take place on the Italian Riviera. Get over it. ...more Pearl Ruled Rating: 2.5* of five (p88) Story of romantic love at first sight ranging from 1962 to the present, and involving a staggering amount of cluttered narrative and facile, stereotypical characters. The writing is perfectly serviceable, though without any distinguishing characteristics. It's like those MFA bores all are. I put this down three hours ago, and already I had to look up the main characters' names: Pasquale and Dee Moray. In 10 minutes, I won't remember either one. That is a big pr Pearl Ruled Rating: 2.5* of five (p88) Story of romantic love at first sight ranging from 1962 to the present, and involving a staggering amount of cluttered narrative and facile, stereotypical characters. The writing is perfectly serviceable, though without any distinguishing characteristics. It's like those MFA bores all are. I put this down three hours ago, and already I had to look up the main characters' names: Pasquale and Dee Moray. In 10 minutes, I won't remember either one. That is a big problem to have with a 337-page book. PS: note to the review police...I don't care that you think I shouldn't have rated or reviewed the book because I didn't read the whole thing. Don't message me privately, and don't leave comments, as I will simply delete them. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more I got a table at the Rainbow Room I told my wife I'd be home soon Big ships are approaching the docks I got my hi-fi boom box Mashed potatoes in cellophane I see my life going down the drain Hold me baby and don't let go Pretty girls help to soften the blow Palm trees; the flat broke disease And LA has got me on my knees I am the bluest of blues Every day a different way to lose The Go Getter I'll be the Go Getter That's my plan That's who I am The Go Getter Yeah the Go Getter The Go Getter The Black K I got a table at the Rainbow Room I told my wife I'd be home soon Big ships are approaching the docks I got my hi-fi boom box Mashed potatoes in cellophane I see my life going down the drain Hold me baby and don't let go Pretty girls help to soften the blow Palm trees; the flat broke disease And LA has got me on my knees I am the bluest of blues Every day a different way to lose The Go Getter I'll be the Go Getter That's my plan That's who I am The Go Getter Yeah the Go Getter The Go Getter The Black Keys I have a complicated relationship with social satire. I give the vulgar and violent (thinking here of South Park and Chuck Palahniuk) a wide berth \u2013\u2013 but the bizarre sensibilities of Monty Python, the gentle humor of Garrison Keillor or the politician-skewering tirades of Stewart and Colbert tickle me. I have the hardest time appreciating modern literary satire. When I commit to spending a few days with a book, I want story. Good, old-fashioned, beginning-middle-end story, not cynical commentary wrapped in wit. Jess Walter\u2019s <+++>Beautiful Ruins</+++> is the marriage of gentle social satire with old-fashioned story-telling; a marriage that gives life to a delightfully original and brave novel. Like any skilled satirist, Walter creates a world that is slightly off-kilter \u2013 not bizarre, not unbelievable- just a sense that something, somehow is slightly amiss. The reader is always a bit wobbly \u2013 guaranteeing she will take nothing for granted in the narrative. The title <+++>Beautiful Ruins</+++> refers to one of novel\u2019s central themes: the inevitable crumbling of youth, of promise, of dreams. There are so many beautiful ruins in this story, which takes place in 1962 Italy and present-day Hollywood, with a bit of contemporary Spokane and Edinburgh and 1970\u2019s Seattle tossed in, not to forget a slight detour to the Sierra Nevada mountains in the 1850\u2019s. Among the ruins we find the village of Porto Vergogna and the dreams of its most ambitious resident, hotel owner <---C>Pasquale Tursi</---C>; the actress Dee Moray, who comes to Porto Vergogna in 1962 to convalesce; Alvis Bender, a war veteran turned writer who can\u2019t write past his first chapter; the legendary movie producer Michael Deane, who has made a beautiful ruin of his face with Botox and plastic surgery; Deane\u2019s assistant Claire Silver, whose love life and career represent everything she hates about sell-out, superficial Los Angeles; former Seattle grunge rocker Pat Bender, a mid-life shamble of addiction and self-loathing; and aspiring screenwriter Shane Wheeler, who delivers one of the book\u2019s most surprising chapters, a pitch for a movie about that great ruin of the American frontier spirit: the doomed Donner party. That\u2019s a heckuva lot of characters (and there are more, far more!) and this is a heckuva lot of story. Yet it works, in all its madcap and poignant twists, thanks to Walter\u2019s crisp writing and efficient plotting. You fall in love with these characters \u2013 Walter gives them such soul, your heart is constantly tugged. This is a book you could read in the space of a Sunday, not because it\u2019s simple, but because you simply don\u2019t want to put it down. I waver and withhold a fifth star because the Hollywood scenes feel a bit thin and fantastical to me - there's that satire twitch of mine - and I couldn't quite connect with Claire, who holds a pivotal role, until she, well, I don't want to spoil things. If you don\u2019t care for Hollywood endings, you might feel cheated by Walter\u2019s wrap-up of his intertwined story lines. Me? I\u2019m a sucker for spoonful of sugar to make the medicine of satire go down. Richard Burton makes a brilliantly comic cameo; it is in fact this famous actor for whom the book is titled, after Louis Menard\u2019s piece in The New Yorker : \u201c[Dick] Cavett\u2019s four great interviews with Richard Burton were done in 1980\u2026.Burton, fifty-four at the time, and already a beautiful ruin, was mesmerizing.\u201d Jess Walter uses his characters and their exploits to poke firmly but not cruelly at the bubbles of pop culture, our adoration of celebrity and beauty and the fickle nature of the film and publishing industries. Not to mention the fickle and fleeting nature of love. He shows the folly of great expectations and the beautiful ruins of unfulfilled hopes and dreams. It is a charming literary mosaic. ...more After looking up various images of the 1963 movie, CLEOPATRA, the film that critically bombed but was lit up by the scandal of Liz Taylor and Richard Burton, I saw a coastline of Italy that looked exactly like the cover of this book. It is a most felicitous cover that captures the mood and time that this novel begins, in 1962. A parochial innkeeper, Pasquali Tursi, lives in a rocky coastline village called Porto Vergogna (Port of Shame), a place the size of a thumb between two mountains, and ref After looking up various images of the 1963 movie, CLEOPATRA, the film that critically bombed but was lit up by the scandal of Liz Taylor and Richard Burton, I saw a coastline of Italy that looked exactly like the cover of this book. It is a most felicitous cover that captures the mood and time that this novel begins, in 1962. A parochial innkeeper, Pasquali Tursi, lives in a rocky coastline village called Porto Vergogna (Port of Shame), a place the size of a thumb between two mountains, and referred to as \"the whore's crack.\" One day, Pasquali is stunned by the vision of a young, striking, blonde American actress, Dee Moray, from the movie set, and baffled why she is staying at his inn. He learns that she is sick, and waiting for the famous publicity agent, Michael Deane, to take her to Switzerland for treatment. She stays at the ramshackle inn for a few days. Walter depicts their friendship with exquisite wistfulness and beauty. Her Italian and his English are as rocky as the cliffs surrounding the village, but a meeting of the souls eclipses language. On an outing together, they climb the cliffs high above the Ligurian Sea so that Pasquali can show Dee five frescoes painted on the wall inside a machine-gun pillbox bunker left over from World War II. At this scene, I almost wept. These frescoes become the most poignant visual metaphor of the book. Alvis Bender, an American writer with writer's block, traumatized from his experience in the war, stays at the inn annually, and has left his one devastating chapter in the drawer in Dee's room. It is an astonishing chapter, one of the highlights of the novel. It is a treat to witness the variety of stories that make up Walter's one larger story. The novel alternates non-linearly from 1962 to contemporary time in Hollywood, Calfornia, where Claire Silver, a scholar of film archives, works for the now legendary film producer Michael Deane. Claire is on the cusp of quitting her job and leaving her boyfriend, and is suffering from several regrets. She is braced for another insipid film pitch when she receives a surprising visitor. In this pensive, reflective, aesthetically pleasing, and geographically stunning story, we meet a disparate cast of characters that are ultimately linked. There's also a washed-up rock musician, a frustrated screenwriter, and a cameo appearance by a certain alcoholic son of a Welsh coal miner--a brief but rollicking insertion of a true-to-life legend that is so spectacular and credible, it almost outshines the rest of the book. But the rest of the novel is exquisite, so that the scenes in repose combine with eye-popping chapters, and give the book a sublime balance. The story has an undulating, timeless presence. Patience is rewarded, as it ascends toward its peak with a languid pace. The outcome may be a little too neat for some readers, but it is a minor flaw that is incidental to the mature and subtle elegance rendered on every page. As time passes, it continues to echo with its alluring characters, resonating themes, and delicate visual beauty and symmetry. ...more Heart-Stabbing Elaboration of Beauty I kept this book on my shelf untouched for nearly 4 years after I couldn't make it past page 20. In April, with the spring weather, I decided to dust off its pretty jacket and read it. So many have reviewed this novel in the time since I bought this that I doubt many will even read this review. But ... I just feel compelled to add... I was wowed, nearly speechless by the adductively alluring setting, ruins welling within me even now, months after my farewell Heart-Stabbing Elaboration of Beauty I kept this book on my shelf untouched for nearly 4 years after I couldn't make it past page 20. In April, with the spring weather, I decided to dust off its pretty jacket and read it. So many have reviewed this novel in the time since I bought this that I doubt many will even read this review. But ... I just feel compelled to add... I was wowed, nearly speechless by the adductively alluring setting, ruins welling within me even now, months after my farewell. I realize the book's faults, but they didn't take away from its gorgeous cinematic qualities. In one novel, the author contrasts: A brilliant, breathtaking, blazing, Botticellian beauty of love and nature and flesh along the chromatic Italian Ligurian Sea coastline and on the movie set of Cleopatra in Rome, together with an appreciation for just being alive, under nights of sparkling stars, With A sadness submerging the spiritual hole left by the reminder that in life we must choose paths (this or that, not this and that), yet we have but one life to live but so much love from which to give. Italian Ruins near Ligurian Sea For some reason, my emotional Achilles heel is the idea of a love between two people as a living organism, floating after the two have split and even subsequent to the dissipation by degrees of each's unilateral love for the other. These spirits of lost love are the saddest ghosts to me, once so hopeful and gorgeous and vibrant, kissed into intimate knolls and notched in its lovers' souls, yet now doomed to obscurity then eternal demise unless someone captures the evergreen of its glory in art, which I guess is perhaps what Jess Walter means by using the symbolic beautiful ruins and fading painting therein. I know this makes me a sap, but I'd have to say this novel could best be described as: A Heart-Stabbing Elaboration of Beauty ...more In 2006, Janet Maslin of the NY Times said, \u201cJess Walter is a ridiculously talented writer.\u201d That\u2019s been a blurb on every book he\u2019s written since. I can see why, especially since I happen to agree. This, his most recent novel, showcases these talents well. The writing is effortless, the plot is engaging, the characters are memorable, and it\u2019s full of fun and insight. The social commentary is awfully good, too, meaning I approve of the targets he pokes at. The story begins in the early 1960\u2019s in In 2006, Janet Maslin of the NY Times said, \u201cJess Walter is a ridiculously talented writer.\u201d That\u2019s been a blurb on every book he\u2019s written since. I can see why, especially since I happen to agree. This, his most recent novel, showcases these talents well. The writing is effortless, the plot is engaging, the characters are memorable, and it\u2019s full of fun and insight. The social commentary is awfully good, too, meaning I approve of the targets he pokes at. The story begins in the early 1960\u2019s in a remote fishing village just beyond Italy\u2019s fashionable Cinque Terre. Young Pasquale, fresh out of college, has come back home to run his family\u2019s small hotel. A beautiful American actress named Dee arrives (mistakenly?) as a guest. She was originally in Rome for the filming of Cleopatra . Though Pasquale\u2019s English is not great, and he\u2019s also a bit shy, his earnest good intent makes an impression. But she\u2019s sick (dying?). We then cut to contemporary America \u2013 Hollywood \u2013 the epicenter of both glitz and schlock. Claire is a film-loving assistant at Michael Deane\u2019s studio. Deane, a cheeser of some repute, began his career as a production assistant for Cleopatra , later became a big-time producer, then fell off the pace awhile before getting his groove back via reality TV. (Walter\u2019s skewering of this broadcast idiocy is something all but the lowest of brows can appreciate.) Anyway, Claire is about to give up when two visitors show up. One is a young writer hoping to pitch his sensationally bleak movie idea and the other is an older Italian gentleman there to see Michael. So that\u2019s how it sets up. We then get the back story that brings us up to the present. And what a story it is. One of the characters is an American writer (a car salesman, really) who visits Pasquale\u2019s hotel annually with the intention of writing a book, but in practice to drink wine. He did manage a chapter, though, and the truth is it\u2019s very good. We also witness some touching scenes where Pasquale and Dee connect, if only briefly, at soul level. Then there was the whole Cleopatra circus. Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton (or Lizard as I like to think of them in this era of Brangelina) took some managing, and Deane was the man tasked with the job. The Welshman was a handful with his unslakable thirsts. His cameo role was one of the highlights of the book. Fast-forwarding a few decades we meet Pat who is all about wine, women and song. At least the song part had at one time provided an income. He\u2019s in rather dire straits when we meet him, though. Naturally, his story connects with the others. Back in Hollywood, agendas are identified and actions are taken. Now, in the time-honored tradition of keeping important plot points to one\u2019s self, I hereby button my lip. I\u2019ve been a Jess Walter fan for several years now. He\u2019s one of those writers who\u2019s found the sweet spot between flourishes and flow. He never appears to be trying too hard while giving us bright, shiny nuggets in an entertaining way. Richard Russo identified this talent early in Walter\u2019s career, which is meaningful since Russo is another writer I\u2019d put in that category. My expectations for a Walter book are high. In fact, I may have rounded down from 4.5 stars to 4 because I know his capabilities. The shortcoming in this work, I felt, was in his character development. He tended to trade depth for breadth. With as many as 8 POV characters, it would have been nice digging deeper into a select few. But hey, let\u2019s end this on a positive note. This is a very readable book \u2014 by a ridiculously talented writer. ...more Some authors can juggle intertwined characters and a disjointed assembly of characters in a way that starts making sense, allowing them to pull all the characters and plot together effortlessly at the end (Kate Atkinson, among others). I did not feel that Jess Walter had that skill; the characters did not appeal to me; and if I hadn't been reading for my book group, I probably would not have bothered to finish. Last week, I was dreading seeing my dental hygenist. Not just for the usual reasons - (I brush & floss 3 times a day, yet she has to scrape and scrape with her little implements, and it makes me feel like an unclean swine!) - but, because we always talk about books. I knew she would ask about what I was currently reading, and I had no clue how to describe the magic of Beautiful Ruins in between all that scraping and suctioning. Even now when my mouth is NOT crammed full of tubes and metal hoo Last week, I was dreading seeing my dental hygenist. Not just for the usual reasons - (I brush & floss 3 times a day, yet she has to scrape and scrape with her little implements, and it makes me feel like an unclean swine!) - but, because we always talk about books. I knew she would ask about what I was currently reading, and I had no clue how to describe the magic of Beautiful Ruins in between all that scraping and suctioning. Even now when my mouth is NOT crammed full of tubes and metal hooks...I'm not sure how to describe it. In 1962, Dee Moray, an aspiring actress whose mysterious illness has gotten her booted from the set of \"Cleopatra,\" arrives at a tiny Italian coastal village. There she meets Pasquale Tursi, a young man who dreams of turning his town into a resort - an American getaway, parasols on the rocky shore, camera shutters snapping, Kennedys everywhere! Pasquale is waiting for life to come and find him. Jumping to \"recently\" in Hollywood, we meet Michael Deane, a has-been film producer, a scythe on the wall of a tractor plant. He's been reduced to producing reality TV fare like \"Rich MILF, Poor MILF\" and \"Paranoid Palace\" - we take mental patients off their meds, put them in a house with hidden cameras... His assistant, Claire, spends her days listening to pitches for films that will never be made, and sifting shit for the corn. Going back to the sixties, we'll also be spending time with an author who's spent years perfecting just the first chapter of his book, and with Richard Burton himself, a heavy-drinking, hard-living, actress-dipper, who burns to tell the real, inside story of Burton/Taylor and their giant turd of a movie. These great characters are twirled together in a book that also manages to contain part of a memoir, a film synopsis about the Donner Party, the first chapter of another book, and a play - all leading to a final chapter that neatly sums up EVERY storyline, and is one of the most perfect things I've ever read. The best way to describe this entrancing book? Steal some more lines from its pages! These are completely out of context - but still wonderful: Life picks up speed like a boulder rolling down a hill, easy and natural and comfortable, and yet beyond control somehow; it all happens so fast, you wake a young man and at lunch are middle-aged and by dinner you can imagine your own death. So don't inhabit the vast, empty plateau where most people live, between boredom and contentment. ...embrace the sweet lovely mess that is real life. What a sweet lovely mess it is! ...more Jess Walter and I have not seen eye to eye on another of his novels but after reading Beautiful Ruins , we have definitely kissed and made up. Actually, we may well be 'besties'. He may have 'beautifully ruined' me for the next dozen or so books that I read; this, his latest novel, could easily become my reading yardstick. It is thought-provoking, serious, insouciant and amusing; it strolls across your consciousness with a lazy charm. Each character is lovingly crafted; Jess Walter knows what he Jess Walter and I have not seen eye to eye on another of his novels but after reading Beautiful Ruins , we have definitely kissed and made up. Actually, we may well be 'besties'. He may have 'beautifully ruined' me for the next dozen or so books that I read; this, his latest novel, could easily become my reading yardstick. It is thought-provoking, serious, insouciant and amusing; it strolls across your consciousness with a lazy charm. Each character is lovingly crafted; Jess Walter knows what he is doing and he does it well. Beginning the story in early 1960s in a small Italian coastal village is Pasquale, the owner of his family's small hotel. Unexpectedly, there is a guest; a beautiful American actress, Dee Moray who is cast as the handmaiden in the film Cleopatra. Dee has come to the hotel to rest because, rumour has it, she's dying. Also in this time frame is Michael Deane, a movie producer, the actor Richard Burton and a WW11 soldier Alvis Bender who is writing his first novel. Fast forward to the new millennium in America; Claire is the assistant to Michael Deane, now a movie/tv producer extraordinaire and currently producing\u2019 reality tv studio. Claire has decided to resign but first she has one more appointment; Shane, who is pitching his very bleak movie premise which involves cannibalism. Claire has an unscheduled visitor that afternoon; an elderly Italian man who is looking for Michael. There is also Pat, a wise-cracking American comedic musician, in London after an attempted intervention by his family, struggling to have one last crack at fame during a fringe festival. The story contains three additional vehicles of prose; the first chapter of Bender's novel, Shane's movie pitch which is quite a haunting story, and the first rejected chapter of Michael Deane's memoir. All are important to the main story. How Walter ties all these threads together is testament to his prowess as a author. You have this sparse information, now I insist you read this superlative novel to savour Walter's brilliance for yourself. Pasquale said. \u201cWhy you come here?\u201d Bender pondered the wine in his hand. \u201cA writer needs four things to achieve greatness: desire, disappointment, and the sea.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s only three.\u201d Alvis finished his wine. \u201cYou have to do disappointment twice.\u201d Richard Burton ' already a beautiful ruin ' as described in the 1980 Dick Cavett interviews with the actor. Walter says \u201c it was as if that phrase 'beautiful ruin' rose off the page .\u201d In Beautiful Ruins , there is perfect, persuasive prose, delicious, decadent detail and seamless, satisfying storytelling, relentlessly riveting the reader from go to whoa. Short stories want to grow up to be this novel, other fictions glare in uneasy jealousy and epics long to be edited down to this 337 page word perfect novel . Beautiful Ruins goes straight onto my ' bury me with this book ' bookshelf. MOST HIGHLY RECOMMENDED . 5\u2605 ...more A favorable review today in The New York Times said Jess Walter\u2019s new book is like a film script, but to my way of thinking it is more like Walter as a one-man performance artist, who suddenly pulls all kinds of horns, drums, bells and other props out of his bottomless pockets to illustrate a point, to make us laugh, to break into our attention and to declare: \u201care we entirely mad?\u201d His work is brilliantly interpreted and performed by Edoardo Ballerini on audio, and to hear the thick and heavy t A favorable review today in The New York Times said Jess Walter\u2019s new book is like a film script, but to my way of thinking it is more like Walter as a one-man performance artist, who suddenly pulls all kinds of horns, drums, bells and other props out of his bottomless pockets to illustrate a point, to make us laugh, to break into our attention and to declare: \u201care we entirely mad?\u201d His work is brilliantly interpreted and performed by Edoardo Ballerini on audio, and to hear the thick and heavy tones of Richard Burton declaiming in a small outboard floating off the coast of Italy is to feel a stab of remembered joy. Fifteen years from conception to production, this is Walter at his crazy, mad, funny, piercing best, for he skewers us and our lives by reflecting popular culture back at ourselves, but showers us with tender mercies at the end. The novel covers a time frame from the early sixties through at least the last decade, and covers at least as many personalities as years. But what a wild and happy party it is, with all the usual suspects: love, greed, envy, pride, lust, infidelity\u2026and, I\u2019ll say it again, finally love. \u201cIt\u2019s a love story,\u201d we hear as Hollywood producer Michael Deane pitches his latest to the studio executives at the end of the book. And I guess it always is, in the end, for that is all that really matters. Take this trip, and if you have eschewed listening on audio for whatever reason, throw aside your inhibitions and do yourself a favor. This is performance art, and may be listened to with great effect. We have a nubile Hollywood actress with a bit part in an Elizabeth Taylor film, a Hollywood producer, a small Italian coastal village, a young man pitching a story\u2026you get the idea. There is lots going on but it always with the greatest clarity that we can see that life \u201disn\u2019t always easy\u201d and that we usually find our hapless ways despite, or perhaps because of, our questionable choices. ...more 3.5 Stars This is the type of book that determines your next vacation . Sometimes its not the plot that makes a book memorable but beautiful descriptions of a place and it's inhabitants that can charm and dazzle the reader. A story of greed, treachery and romance set on a rocky patch of Italian coastline in 1962. The stroy is told in chapters that go back and forth in time and I was lucky enough to have been given a copy of this as a kris Kringle bookclub gift and I had it on audible as well. The 3.5 Stars This is the type of book that determines your next vacation . Sometimes its not the plot that makes a book memorable but beautiful descriptions of a place and it's inhabitants that can charm and dazzle the reader. A story of greed, treachery and romance set on a rocky patch of Italian coastline in 1962. The stroy is told in chapters that go back and forth in time and I was lucky enough to have been given a copy of this as a kris Kringle bookclub gift and I had it on audible as well. The switching between timeframes was pretty confusing at times and the vast amount of quirky characters make this book a little difficult to follow. But I did love the writing and the amazing sense of time and place. A lovely story with vivid characters and beautiful images of romantic Italian Coastlines that made this book come alive. I loved the character of Pasquale and the chapters set in Italy were the hightlight of Beautiful Ruins for me. While I always perfer to read a book the narration by Edoardo Ballerini was excellent and I really enjoyed swithing back and forth between my hardcopy and audible. ...more I was delighted by the humor and touching sentimentality in this tale about second chances to repair broken dreams. For me, it was a fun mash-up of a madcap romantic comedy of the Hollywood type and a serious deflation of the same scenario. I would follow happily along for long stretches, confident that the characters silly troubles would be resolved by the end. Then I would get bowled over with the serious and sometimes brutal truths that emerge along the way. At the start, the action alternate I was delighted by the humor and touching sentimentality in this tale about second chances to repair broken dreams. For me, it was a fun mash-up of a madcap romantic comedy of the Hollywood type and a serious deflation of the same scenario. I would follow happily along for long stretches, confident that the characters silly troubles would be resolved by the end. Then I would get bowled over with the serious and sometimes brutal truths that emerge along the way. At the start, the action alternates between a group of disappointed characters in a backwater Italian seacoast town in 1962 and a set of people in contemporary Hollywood dreaming of pulling off the next big successful movie. For the first setting, enter stage left is Pasquale. He manages the only hotel (\u201cHotel Adequate View\u201d) in a tiny cliff town where he has returned from an academic life (and failing love relationship) in Florence to take care of his ailing mother after his father died. His dream of turning this run-down community of old fishing families, Porto Vergogne (\u201cPort Shame\u201d) into an attractive resort is obviously foolish. But the arrival of a lone American actress one day, Dee Moray, electrifies his hopes. Unfortunately, she is ill and seems to have been dumped there for some reason by a dastardly lover associated with the movie she had a part in being filmed in Rome (details withheld as spoilers). In a lovely set of exchanges and soul sharing, Pasquale falls for her, and soon he takes noble action to advocate for her cause with those who have wronged her. Back in present times 50 years later, we have the pleasure of the company of Claire, who works as a development assistant to a once highly successful Hollywood producer, Michael Deane. She hitched her wagon to him as a better dream than her unrewarding academic studies of film. But after a dry period with only a stupid reality TV show and Zombie B-movie, she gives herself one more day of listening to film pitches to discover a worthy prospect for a quality film or else she will jump ship for a different job. She is also on the verge of dumping her porn-addicted boyfriend, the source of a number of belly laughs for me. At the last minute, two men show up. One is a young guy, Shane, who wants to sell his implausible idea for a tragic movie about the Donner Party (remember the tale of starvation and cannibalism among pioneers caught in a blizzard crossing the Rockies?). The other man is an elderly Italian who wants to see Deane about the whereabouts of an actress Claire never heard of. Surprisingly, when called to the scene, Deane is interested both in producing the movie and wants to drop everything to help the Italian find the missing actress. The rest of the book works to bring the two sets of characters together to make a single story. There are about a dozen characters, each with their own story related to ruined dreams, but as they all work toward some form of healing solution, their stories blend in a satisfying illusion of unity. One of the most poignant side stories concerns the only other regular foreign guest, Alvis. He is an alcoholic American who served in Italy during World War 2 and comes to secluded Porto Vergogne to work on a novel to make sense of that experience. A passage from the one chapter he has managed write captures a bit of his sad state: God this life is a cold brittle thing. And yet it\u2019s all there is. That night I settled into my mummy bag, no longer myself but a played-out husk, a shell. Years passed and I found myself still a husk, still in that moment, still in the day my war ended, the day I realized, as all survivors must, that being alive isn\u2019t the same thing as living. Though he works as a car dealer in America, he once worked as a college lit teacher and thus had the skills to mystify Pasquale with this exchange when when as a boy he asked Alvis why he came to Italy to write: \u201cStories are nations, empires. They can last as long as ancient Rome or as short as the Third Reich. Story-nations rise and decline. \u2026\u201d Pasquale grinned. \u201cAnd if I ask if stories are empires, you\u2019ll say .\u2014\u201c \u201cStories are people \u2026 your father is a story. Our stories go in every direction, but sometimes, if we\u2019re lucky, our stories join into one, and for awhile, we\u2019re less alone.\u201d \u201cBut you never answered the question,\u201d Pasquale said. \u201cWhy you come here.\u201d Bender pondered the wine in his hand. \u201cA writer needs four things to achieve greatness, Pasquale: desire, disappointment, and the sea.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s only three.\u201d Alvis finished his wine. \u201cYou have to do disappointment twice.\u201d ...more I had been hearing so many wonderful things about Jess Walters\u2019s Beautiful Ruins that when HarperCollins Canada tweeted that they\u2019d be having a Twitter chat for the book, I just had to pick up a copy. The idea of Italy mixed with that beautiful cover made it a pretty easy sell for me. Of course, when I finished the book and sat down to write this review, I was stuck. The entire book was a mix of SO MANY THINGS. First of all, there\u2019s travel, music, books, movie pitches, acting, movie stars, relati I had been hearing so many wonderful things about Jess Walters\u2019s Beautiful Ruins that when HarperCollins Canada tweeted that they\u2019d be having a Twitter chat for the book, I just had to pick up a copy. The idea of Italy mixed with that beautiful cover made it a pretty easy sell for me. Of course, when I finished the book and sat down to write this review, I was stuck. The entire book was a mix of SO MANY THINGS. First of all, there\u2019s travel, music, books, movie pitches, acting, movie stars, relationships, Hollywood, Italy, Italian thugs \u2014 just to name a few. Second of all, there\u2019s romance, humour, sadness, whimsy, longing, love, etc. And third of all, there\u2019s a HUGE cast of characters. Now, one would think that there would be way too many things to keep track of, but in a weird way, it all works. From the first few pages of the book, when I met Pasquale, a young Italian man with dreams of building a beach in front of his hotel, I was hooked. I loved the dreamy quality of Pasquale\u2019s character. He\u2019s a lover of life, a big dreamer. In fact, a lot of the characters in the book are big dreamers \u2014 at least, all the main characters are. That\u2019s one of the wonderful things about the book \u2014 not only does it take the reader away to a different place, to different scenery, but it forces the reader to dream along with the characters, which is an amazing thing. The thing that really got me with this book was the fact that every single character had a role \u2014 an important role \u2014 and even though the cast was huge, it wasn\u2019t hard at all to keep track of who everyone was. There was also a really wonderful blend of romance and whimsy, hilarity and sadness \u2014 all of which fit together so perfectly and which really made me want to turn the pages faster. Jess Walter is a pretty amazing writer. I loved how he constantly kept me on my toes as he flipped from Italy in 1962, to Hollywood in the present day, to a book chapter, to a play, to \u2026 so many other things! At every chapter end, I didn\u2019t know what to expect next. The passing of time, the mix of old-time whimsy with new-age conveniences, the constant message of patience \u2014 it just all worked. Ultimately, the best story of the book \u2013 to me, at least \u2014 was the story of Pasquale, which was the most romantic and dreamy story of them all. Honestly, I wish I could read more books like this! When I turned the last page, I was so happy to feel content. No loose ends \u2014 but just one question left hanging in the air. Of course, if you want to know that, you\u2019ll have to read it yourself! ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Beautiful Ruins was the third book in my library Winter Reading Challenge. I don't know wtf is going on, but I'm having a hell of a time finding a winner. Curse you, library!!!! Nah, not really. In all seriousness, if I weren't such a voracious reader I would have been able to find plenty of good books on the recommendation list . . . but since I've already read Eleanor & Park and The Lover's Dictionary and High Fidelity , etc., etc Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Beautiful Ruins was the third book in my library Winter Reading Challenge. I don't know wtf is going on, but I'm having a hell of a time finding a winner. Curse you, library!!!! Nah, not really. In all seriousness, if I weren't such a voracious reader I would have been able to find plenty of good books on the recommendation list . . . but since I've already read Eleanor & Park and The Lover's Dictionary and High Fidelity , etc., etc., etc. I was down to some slim pickings. When I read the synopsis of (yet another) back and forth timeline story that begins with a chance encounter between an American actress and an Italian innkeeper back in the 60s which then bounces to present day and the arrival of an elderly Italian man at a movie studio, my mind automatically wanted this story . . . Things didn't work out quite as planned. Instead I ended up with not only the story of the innkeep and the actress, but also the story of the schmarmy movie producer and his assistant and the unemployed screenwriter and and a womanizing has-been musician and RICHARD BURTON ?!?!?!?!?. I love ensemble casts, but they are VERY hard to write successfully. Beautiful Ruins had plenty of characters, but unfortunately (for me, at least) they all lacked depth (or I flat-out didn't give a rip about them). This is one of those books that I'm glad I'm reviewing, because in six months (or maybe even three since I'm an idiot) my memory will fail me and I'll see that beautiful cover and blurb and think \"Oh, I should read that.\" It's that forgettable. However, my problem with Beautiful Ruins may indeed be just that. MY PROBLEM . I encourage everyone to read Melki's review in order to get a second opinion on this one. The things that bothered me the most (the over-the-top movie pitch, the excerpt from the book which was never finished, the play, etc.) all detracted from my enjoyment, but worked to enhance hers. This is one instance where I also think a film version might surpass the book. There weren't enough pages to invest me in all of the character's lives, but on screen it could be a completely different story. And Jess Walter definitely knows how to use pretty words . . . \"Weren't movies his generation's faith anyway - its true religion? Wasn't the theater our temple, the one place we enter separately but emerge from two hours later together, with the same experience, same guided emotions, same moral? A million schools taught ten million curricula, a million churches featured ten thousand sects with a billion sermons - but the same movie showed in every mall in the country. And we all saw it That summer, the one you'll never forget, every movie house beamed the same set of thematic and narrative images - the same Avatar , same Harry Potter , same Fast and the Furious , flickering pictures stitched in our minds that replaced our own memories, archetypal stories that became our shared history, that taught us what to expect from life, that defined our values. What was that but a religion?\" Oh, and because when you Google \" Letters to Juliet .gifs\" THIS pops up . . . You're welcome. ...more Beautiful Ruins is a revelation. It contains shimmering prose and a life-affirming message. Spanning 50 years and two continents, it asks some tough questions about how to define success and happiness in our media-driven, celebrity-obsessed culture. It artfully encompasses such disparate events as the filming of Cleopatra in the 1960's and the tragedy of the Donner Party over 100 years earlier. It skewers the modern entertainment industry for its preoccupation with ratings and admonishes us t Beautiful Ruins is a revelation. It contains shimmering prose and a life-affirming message. Spanning 50 years and two continents, it asks some tough questions about how to define success and happiness in our media-driven, celebrity-obsessed culture. It artfully encompasses such disparate events as the filming of Cleopatra in the 1960's and the tragedy of the Donner Party over 100 years earlier. It skewers the modern entertainment industry for its preoccupation with ratings and admonishes us to ignore this chatter when we chart our own lives. Reading it is like eating an artichoke. As you peel away the leaves, stand-ins for the myriad tribulations confronting the characters, the anticipation builds. By the time Walter wraps it all up, in a masterful final chapter that both updates and recapitulates his many story threads, you feel sated and satisfied. (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I am not going to recommend you read this because you will judge me for it long before you tire of the written tics, redundancy, and the repeated use of characters' full names. If you were to read this, explicitly violating my not-recommendation and expunging my role in the whole thing, the last quarter of the book might be the best, save for the last chapter which is one of those annoying scrolling summaries at the end of a film of all of the characters' happy endings. A very wrong note. The aut I am not going to recommend you read this because you will judge me for it long before you tire of the written tics, redundancy, and the repeated use of characters' full names. If you were to read this, explicitly violating my not-recommendation and expunging my role in the whole thing, the last quarter of the book might be the best, save for the last chapter which is one of those annoying scrolling summaries at the end of a film of all of the characters' happy endings. A very wrong note. The author should have taken a lesson from his own Lydia. I don't know if \"it was okay\" (2 stars) or if I actually \"liked it\" (3 stars). Tough call, Goodreads. (Full disclosure: this was my first book finished after reading Margaret Atwood, so, you know, selection effects/comparison bias/ridiculously high bar/doomed.) ...more A couple weeks ago a friend told me that Jess Walter's \"Beautiful Ruins\" was the book of the summer. I walked straight to Barnes & Noble after we finished lunch to buy it. The man at the checkout counter said that all sorts of people had been buying this book. After all, it combines Italy in the 1960s with Hollywood then and now. It deals with love, disappointed expectations, responsibilities, movie magic, tragedy - the whole gamut of human drama. And yet, it's not love for me. There wasn't A couple weeks ago a friend told me that Jess Walter's \"Beautiful Ruins\" was the book of the summer. I walked straight to Barnes & Noble after we finished lunch to buy it. The man at the checkout counter said that all sorts of people had been buying this book. After all, it combines Italy in the 1960s with Hollywood then and now. It deals with love, disappointed expectations, responsibilities, movie magic, tragedy - the whole gamut of human drama. And yet, it's not love for me. There wasn't that soft glow of a movie camera telling the story. Instead it was a glaring look at human frailty and failings. There were beautiful details and uncanny characterization. But just the same way that I want some of the girls to wake up on Mad Men and demand that their men treat them better, I could not get past the crass and the sad realities. Sometimes I want my stories to just be stories. I don't want to feel like these disappointments could have really happened. All that said, I think I would still recommend it if you are an avid reader or you love the movies. I told my grandmother it was a must read because she lived through the drama that was Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. And the way that this book comes together at the end is surprisingly fulfilling after what was at times a very frustrating read. How's that for a contradictory review?! Happy reading. ...more What a marvelous novel! I thought this would be a fun and fast read, but there were surprising depths to this book that is part historical fiction, part insider-Hollywood, part redemption and part love story. The book opens on a tiny fishing village in Italy in 1962. An American actress comes to a small hotel to recuperate from an illness. The hotel owner, Pasquale, falls for her beauty and wants to help her. He will slowly learn her secrets and why she was sent to his village. The flashback port What a marvelous novel! I thought this would be a fun and fast read, but there were surprising depths to this book that is part historical fiction, part insider-Hollywood, part redemption and part love story. The book opens on a tiny fishing village in Italy in 1962. An American actress comes to a small hotel to recuperate from an illness. The hotel owner, Pasquale, falls for her beauty and wants to help her. He will slowly learn her secrets and why she was sent to his village. The flashback portions alternate with chapters set in present-day Hollywood, involving a movie producer, his assistant and a writer. Pasquale, who is now an old man, visits the producer and wants to know what happened to the actress. Will the producer finally make amends for his earlier misdeeds? The final chapters of the book neatly tie all of the story lines together. The writing is gorgeous and I frequently reread sections to fully appreciate them. This is one of the best novels I've read this year. ...more I would never have suspected that a novel about a small town actress, a decrepit Italian hotel, an ambitious writer, a crass Hollywood producer and Richard Burton would have me turning to grab this book at every spare opportunity, and allow me to stretch my lunch hour without guilt to finish the book. In the early 60s, Pasquale has taken over his family's completely out of date hotel in a village so small that tourist boats never come there -- except one day, when one does, and deposits a beautif I would never have suspected that a novel about a small town actress, a decrepit Italian hotel, an ambitious writer, a crass Hollywood producer and Richard Burton would have me turning to grab this book at every spare opportunity, and allow me to stretch my lunch hour without guilt to finish the book. In the early 60s, Pasquale has taken over his family's completely out of date hotel in a village so small that tourist boats never come there -- except one day, when one does, and deposits a beautiful American actress, Dee Moray, on the pier. She takes a room in the hotel, and seems to be very ill, but waiting for the arrival of someone she loves, and of course, Pasquale is smitten. This story is interwoven with a modern-day tail of ambitious Hollywood production assistant Claire, who works for an aging but still ambitious producer, who will end up having played a critical role in the story of the young actress from 50 years before. Into her orbit comes a young writer who is eager to pitch a movie plot about the Donner Party -- and an aging Pasquale, on a search to find the woman who captured his heart so many years ago. And when Michael Deane, the famous producer, decides to pay an old debt (or is that what his real motivation is?) and help Pasquale find Dee, all the threads will be woven together into a story of completion and redemption. And how does Richard Burton work into all this? You'll have to pick up this beautifully written, funny, mulitfaceted book yourself to find out. An absolutely riveting work. ...more Beautiful Ruins I bought this book because I heard the author on NPR and he was this super nerdy guy who talked like an economist and who said things like, \u201cWhen you compare the decline of cultures, for example the decline of Rome or Imperial Britain, one can make a few general conclusion, such as, wealth shifts to the top and the masses are consciously placated...\u201d etc etc. Then I heard the book was fiction and my reaction was: \u201cWhaaatt!?! Fiction from this guy, called Beautiful Ruins, I gotta Beautiful Ruins I bought this book because I heard the author on NPR and he was this super nerdy guy who talked like an economist and who said things like, \u201cWhen you compare the decline of cultures, for example the decline of Rome or Imperial Britain, one can make a few general conclusion, such as, wealth shifts to the top and the masses are consciously placated...\u201d etc etc. Then I heard the book was fiction and my reaction was: \u201cWhaaatt!?! Fiction from this guy, called Beautiful Ruins, I gotta buy this book.\u201d I supposed I hoped for something apocolyptic, something along the line of The Road. And so when I started reading and when I discovered it is an unrequited love story about a Hollywood actress and an Italian teenager, I was a little taken back. Beautiful Ruins is a well-written story about failure. Everybody fails. They fail at love. They fail at work. They fail at success. Nobody wins. The book is its strongest at capturing failure twenty/thirty years down the road, when the person who failed has moved on, lived a life, looks back, and judges their choices. The different characters capture these moments at different times. There is a young, hopeful scriptwriter who sells his movie, but only because it is so awful it will never get made. The main protagonist, a young hollywood actress, is shoveled out of Cleopatra because she is pregnant. Once kicked out of the movie she falls truly, romantically in love to an Italian boy with whom life\u2019s circumstances make love impossible. The book twists the lives of many different characters and interlocks their moments of failure and their futures. It\u2019s sad--but not that sad--and poignant. Trying to figure what to make of this book, especially in context of the interview I heard on NPR, I began to view the story in its entirerty as an attempt to capture the decline of America through Hollywood, the placaters. Beautiful Ruins casts Hollywood as the pinnacle, the place to be. But when seen up close and personal it\u2019s a miserable den of facelifts and drug dependence where success is measured, not in artistic accomplishments, but dollars and where genius is subjugated to wet T-shirts and nipple slips. Beautiful Ruins asks the audience to think about our culture and what it says about where we are going. It doesn\u2019t give any answers; it\u2019s not that simple. It\u2019s more of a you-be-the-judge type of situation. (If you are wondering about my judgement I could sit here and talk about it for days, but it would boil something like: \u201cWe are not unilaterally declining. It depends on what you choose to focus...\u201d Nice, measured, and uncomitall. [catch me at another time and I\u2019ll proclaim, with a stamped fist, that \u201cdomesday is on the horizon\u201d].) P.S. Thanks to a friend who admitted to me that she, and not just me mom, read my goodreads. Thanks. It\u2019s good to know that I am not drunken idiot...all the time. ...more \"And even if they don't find what they're looking for, isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?\" These past few weeks I have been sorting through my Goodreads shelves, writing up old reviews and having many arguments with myself over what makes a book five stars and which books should sit on my 'The Chosen Ones' shelf. 1. Should I only rate a book five stars if I've read it more than once and been besotted with it on each occasion? 2. Should I wait at least half of a year to \"And even if they don't find what they're looking for, isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?\" These past few weeks I have been sorting through my Goodreads shelves, writing up old reviews and having many arguments with myself over what makes a book five stars and which books should sit on my 'The Chosen Ones' shelf. 1. Should I only rate a book five stars if I've read it more than once and been besotted with it on each occasion? 2. Should I wait at least half of a year to decide if a five star rating is fully deserved because sometimes love fades and you realise it was just a passing infatuation?? So it's a no to question one and a yes to question two btw... There are other ideas and prerequisites in my head but I'll spare you all the craziness that is the method of thinking in my ridiculous brain! So Beautiful Ruins is one of those books that I have read just the once but it is over a year ago since I read it and I still love it very much. I frequently find myself leafing through its pages and rereading passages. I initially bought the book purely because I fell in love with the cover (not the one that looks like a chick lit but the 60s inspired one). Oh those colours.... Best impulse book buy based on a cover EVER!! I don't really know why I love this book. I can't put my finger on that moment when my heart fell in love with this story. It just was all sorts of beautiful. From the Italian setting to the glorious writing. It was wonderfully melancholic and the atmosphere within the book constantly kept me on edge in one of those 'everything is just so breathtaking' sorts of ways. I remember when I was reading this book that I felt the need to slow myself down because I was rushing. I was greedy to find out more and more and more. I loved the language so much but I was reading in the same way that I drink a mug of hot chocolate. I love hot chocolate so much that I frequently drink it sooooo quickly that it is all gone before I realise what has happened. It's as if I have forgotten to enjoy it! And I remember reading this book was akin to that hot choccie experience! So I wanted to find a way to savour the moments, the language... Therefore, at times I began to read aloud to myself. And it added a whole new dimension to the book because suddenly I was aspiring to be Dame Judi Dench and it became ALL about the gravitas of my performance!! (Yup...no inflated ego here whatsoever.........*eye roll*) But in doing so, it made me feel even more of what the characters were feeling!!! And I really did click with all the characters... even if at times the story was a bit wacky with who showed up in the book. Yet despite the moments of crazy, somehow the book remained grounded!?!? So yeah... I loved this book for a million different reasons and yet I can't seem to find the words to explain even one logically to you! I guess sometimes you can't explain love. You just open your heart and fall. And this book was one of those rare times for me. five stars ...more \"Isn't it enough to be out walking together in the sunlight?\" Yes. Yes indeed. This isn't quite five-star material, but it was so touching and original and unexpectedly funny that I won't quibble over imperfections. Wonderful, book that keeps one totally engaged from the beginning to the turning of the last page. There was not a dull or uninteresting section in the entire three hundred plus pages. I loved the intertwining of the characters and their stories as they played out their lives against the backdrop of Hollywood during the Cleopatra days of Liz Taylor and Richard Burton, to the tiny Italian town where so much of the action of the life of this book took place. The characters were wonderful, so human Wonderful, book that keeps one totally engaged from the beginning to the turning of the last page. There was not a dull or uninteresting section in the entire three hundred plus pages. I loved the intertwining of the characters and their stories as they played out their lives against the backdrop of Hollywood during the Cleopatra days of Liz Taylor and Richard Burton, to the tiny Italian town where so much of the action of the life of this book took place. The characters were wonderful, so human, so needy, and so wanting, yet so very glorious in their realization that life can be and often is unrelenting in its ability to give one joy and happiness at a moment's notice. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to find a few hours of realization that life weaves at times a convoluted picture and it is how we work out the strands of that picture that makes one's life so totally bearable and ultimately often times wonderful. I have to remember this author and pick up some more of his novels. ...more Set in one of my favorite places on earth, the picturesque Ligurian Sea, this novel had me at \"hello\". However, the beautiful Italian coastline, romantic movie stars and unique characters couldn't hold my attention for long. I felt the main crux of the story dragged me through some pitiful relationships and characters making poor life choices over and over again. I was frustrated with them, annoyed by their self pity and self destruction. But in the end, the book turned back to its beginning glo Set in one of my favorite places on earth, the picturesque Ligurian Sea, this novel had me at \"hello\". However, the beautiful Italian coastline, romantic movie stars and unique characters couldn't hold my attention for long. I felt the main crux of the story dragged me through some pitiful relationships and characters making poor life choices over and over again. I was frustrated with them, annoyed by their self pity and self destruction. But in the end, the book turned back to its beginning glory. i found myself captivated in the final pages as lessons were learned, faith was restored, wounds were healed, but not neatly and perfectly, but realistically. Although the middle dragged, the book redeemed itself in the ending, with the realization that all is love - all that motivates, encourages and keeps us going, in the end is love. ...more Story Description: HarperCollins Publishers|June 4, 2012|Trade Paperback|ISBN: 978-0-06-220713-5 The story begins in 1962. On a rocky patch of the sun-drenched Italian coastline, a young innkeeper, chest-deep in daydreams, looks out over the incandescent waters of the Ligurian Sea and spies an apparition: a tall, thin woman, a vision in white, approaching him on a boat. She is an actress, he soon learns, an American starlet, and she is dying. And the story begins again today, half a world away, wh Story Description: HarperCollins Publishers|June 4, 2012|Trade Paperback|ISBN: 978-0-06-220713-5 The story begins in 1962. On a rocky patch of the sun-drenched Italian coastline, a young innkeeper, chest-deep in daydreams, looks out over the incandescent waters of the Ligurian Sea and spies an apparition: a tall, thin woman, a vision in white, approaching him on a boat. She is an actress, he soon learns, an American starlet, and she is dying. And the story begins again today, half a world away, when an elderly Italian man shows up on a movie studio\u2019s back lot searching for the mysterious woman he last saw at his hotel decades earlier. What unfolds is a dazzling, yet deeply human, roller coaster of a novel, spanning fifty years and nearly as many lives. From the lavish set of Cleopatra to the shabby revelry of the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, Walter introduces us to the tangled lives of a dozen unforgettable characters: the star struck Italian innkeeper and his long-lost love; the heroically preserved producer who once brought them together and his idealistic young assistant; the army veteran turned fledgling novelist and the rakish Richard Burton himself, whose appetites set the whole story in motion along with the husbands and wives, lovers and dreamers, superstars and losers, who populate their world in the decades that follow. Gloriously inventive, constantly surprising, Beautiful Ruins is a story of flawed yet fascinating people, navigating the rocky shores of their lives while clinging to their improbable dreams. My Review: I was very disappointed in this novel. For all the hype and drum rolls I heard, I expected an interesting and phenomenal read \u2013 boy was I wrong! It\u2019s hard to explain but I actually found the story confusing at times and at other times rambling on and on and on but really not going anywhere. I will admit that I skipped and just skimmed through some of the chapters just so my misery could end a tad sooner. Giving an undesirable review of a book bothers me greatly but when I began this book review blog I vowed to be honest. And, just because I didn\u2019t enjoy Beautiful Ruins doesn\u2019t mean that you won\u2019t. I\u2019ve read many glowing reviews so I know a lot of people did enjoy it thoroughly and I sincerely hope that you will too. ...more \u201cSe non \u00e8 vero, \u00e8 ben trovato. . . .\u201d \u201cEven if it is not true, it is well conceived.\" Indeed it is. This old Italian proverb is tucked away on the copyright page, without any translation. (\u201cBeautiful Ruins is a work of fiction. Characters, places, and incidents are the products of the author\u2019s imagination, and any real names or locales used in the book are used fictitiously. Se non \u00e8 vero, \u00e8 ben trovato. . . .\u201d) I saw it only on finishing the book, and it was like a final and unexpected small rewar \u201cSe non \u00e8 vero, \u00e8 ben trovato. . . .\u201d \u201cEven if it is not true, it is well conceived.\" Indeed it is. This old Italian proverb is tucked away on the copyright page, without any translation. (\u201cBeautiful Ruins is a work of fiction. Characters, places, and incidents are the products of the author\u2019s imagination, and any real names or locales used in the book are used fictitiously. Se non \u00e8 vero, \u00e8 ben trovato. . . .\u201d) I saw it only on finishing the book, and it was like a final and unexpected small reward from the author to the reader. Beautiful Ruins is a cinematic book --I couldn't stop seeing it as a movie in my mind. Wonderful scenery (eg,small fishing village in Italy, early 1960s, vs studio lots of present day LA), old-fashioned movie star glamour and present day Hollywood drek from an insider view, heart-warming plot lines (love, lost love, redemption etc), great array of characters, and good supply of memorable quotes and snappy dialogue. Does Walter already have the screenplay halfway done? The story switches between Italy and America, hopping amongst the decades from the 1960s until the present. The author matched his voice to the temporal setting. Scenes in present day Hollywood were funny, ironic, hectic. But he drops the tone for the old Italian stuff in the 60s. It is slower, more reflective \u201cI\u2019ve been thinking about how people sit around for years waiting for their lives to begin, right? Like a movie. ...But I think some people wait forever, and only at the end of their lives do they realize that their life has happened while they were waiting for it to start.\u201d One of the characters is an aging movie producer \u2014 botoxed and surgerized into a plastic simile of a human face (George Hamilton is the image that comes to mind),\u2014and his guiding philosophy, his key to understanding human nature and thus the secret of his success, is: \u201cWe want what we want.\u201d And what we want is not always what we say it is. The story knowingly basks at times in sentimentality, maybe because readers (many) want that, even if we say we don't. Satirical humour helps sharpen up the edges of the threatening sentimentality. One great scene sounds like it could have been from a Humphrey Bogart movie: \u201cA writer needs four things to achieve greatness, Pasquale: desire, disappointment, and the sea.\u201d \u201cThat\u2019s only three.\u201d Alvis finished his wine. \u201cYou have to do disappointment twice.\u201d All loose ends at the end of the story are not only fully accounted for, they are thoroughly tied up, and the package is very much finished. \u201cThe smaller the space between your desire and what is right, the happier you will be.\u201d Great read, well-paced, wonderful prose, smart and funny when it needs to be. Recommended ++. How long before the movie version? ...more This has now become one of my favorite reads in a while. The writing was engaging and smart. The characters were memorable and intriguing. The author just had a way of sucking me in so effortlessly that I couldn't seem to put the book down, nor did I want to. There are several characters involved and time shifts from the past to the future but it does so in a way that the shift was natural. I tend to not enjoy books that shift too much but this wasn't the case for me with this novel. Well crafted, but not for me. Stunning narration by Edoardo Ballerini. I'll start with the good. There is humor; we get to laugh at human behavior. Then the mood swings and it turns philosophical in tone and these lines spoke to me too. The author understands people and not just one kind but different types. He captures each one\u2019s essence . He captures the feel of different places and different modes of life. One being the life in a small village on the Ligurian Coast in the 60s. Another being th Well crafted, but not for me. Stunning narration by Edoardo Ballerini. I'll start with the good. There is humor; we get to laugh at human behavior. Then the mood swings and it turns philosophical in tone and these lines spoke to me too. The author understands people and not just one kind but different types. He captures each one\u2019s essence . He captures the feel of different places and different modes of life. One being the life in a small village on the Ligurian Coast in the 60s. Another being the cinema world both then and today. The famous and the wannabees. The story is well constructed; all the ends tie up neatly. But me? First of all I do not like books that jump back and forth between different times and places. Too confusing, too much of a struggle. I am not enticed by the puzzle of working out how all the threads tie together. There are lots of characters in this book, and yes by the book\u2019s end you do understand exactly how the events evolved and what happened to each. Yet because there are so many and because I was so busy trying to unravel the knot I had less time to focus on each individual. I prefer fewer characters with more attention to each. I am not looking for characterizations of individuals but rather a study of their complexities. Only three of the characters (Pasquale, Dee Moray and Michael Deane) are portrayed with any depth; all the other characters fall on the side. Parts of the book drag, primarily because these sections were devoted to numerous characters for whom I felt no connection. A story that ties up neatly is not what attracts me to a book even if I can admire the author's prowess. I am really not interested in the cinema world of today or the 60s. You get a bit about Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, but way too little to give a hoot about them personally. Richard Burton does play a central role in the plot. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Edoardo Ballerini. It concludes with a section narrated by the author. He personally loves audiobooks and reads his own books out loud. You catch errors by doing this. When you listen you perceive incongruities not seen when you read a written text. The narrator was well chosen. He does a fantastic job. You hear the humor and the wisdom and the Italian dialect is fantastic. You have to hear Pasquale talk. It is marvelous. In my view he is the central character. The parts about Pasquale and his friends, they are the best parts of the book, but unfortunately the book is not just about him and them. ...more I respectfully disagree with everyone who thinks this is a unique and phenomenal book. It is horrible, seriously horrible. I got 50% of the way through before I realized that this book was degrading my quality of life. This is only the third book in my entire life I have given up on, and I wish I would have never even picked it up. I truly liked the premise! A beautiful American finds herself on an isolated Italian island in the 1960's. There is one hotel - The Adequate View - nestled in the shar I respectfully disagree with everyone who thinks this is a unique and phenomenal book. It is horrible, seriously horrible. I got 50% of the way through before I realized that this book was degrading my quality of life. This is only the third book in my entire life I have given up on, and I wish I would have never even picked it up. I truly liked the premise! A beautiful American finds herself on an isolated Italian island in the 1960's. There is one hotel - The Adequate View - nestled in the sharp, rocky hills that is run by a man who dreams for more. There is a air of mystery around this American actress who recently left the filming of Cleopatra. That is where the interesting parts end. We then travel to Hollywood to hear about a completely asinine cast of characters in the present including the now ancient producer of Cleopatra, his assistant who I hated for no reason other than she sucks, and some guy who thought he was the shit for most of his life before he realized he wasn't and then couldn't deal. Oh, but we're not done. The person that really pushed me over the edge was Pat. Oh, Pat. The 45 year old, washed up, glimpse of fame musician who feels entitled to continue to follow his dream (which is less about music and is more about drugs and women) even though he also sucks. His endless inner monologues on the purpose of life and how he is going to change made me want to gag. Get over yourself, a$$hole. Grow up. Get a job. Take a shower. Oh, and we're STILL not done! Interspersed with all of these characters are random little stories about some author who used to vacation at The Adequate View, a soldier in WWII, and the 1960's drama of Liz Taylor's love life. Don't care. Could have been interesting but wasn't. Don't care. Not a single character is even remotely likable. The writing is far from great. The story is confusing and jumps around in a completely illogical manner. Many reviews say that the stories come together in a surprising twist and the ending is interesting. Well, Mr. Walter, you have to start pulling some stuff together before page 200. I don't see what you would do in the last 150 pages that would redeem this book and make me think anything about it other than, \"ugh.\" Moving on. ...more", "Title": "Beautiful Ruins"},
