{"Comments": "\"Writing about music is like dancing about architecture,\" or so the old quote says. I can't help but remember this saying as I attempt to write down some of my fragmented, all too feeble thoughts regarding Catherynne Valente's masterwork, The Orphan Tales: <+++>In the Night Garden</+++> and In the Cities of Coin and Spice. To start out with a bang, I have to tell you what my reaction was upon completing the last page of the second book. It was 1am,<---M> and I set the book down</---M>, after having to re-read one of th \"Writing about music is like dancing about architecture,\" or so the old quote says. I can't help but remember this saying as I attempt to write down some of my fragmented, all too feeble thoughts regarding Catherynne Valente's masterwork, The Orphan Tales: <+++>In the Night Garden</+++> and In the Cities of Coin and Spice. To start out with a bang, I have to tell you what my reaction was upon completing the last page of the second book. It was 1am, and I set the book down, after having to re-read one of the pivotal revelations on the last page and say \"ohhh...I SEE.\" I turned the light out, lay down in bed, and started crying. And I don't just mean a few pinpricks from my eyes like I've had happen for a handful of tales over the years.<---F> I mean nose-sniffling, shoulder-shaking crying</---F>. I cried and I shook my head as I cried, laughing at myself for reacting more strongly than I had to any book I'd ever read. I cried because the books were done. I cried because the ending was so incredible. I cried because I was in awe of Catherynne Valente, only one year older than me, and having given something to the world of myth and story and imagination that I feel should go into the same column (<---B>and high in that column</---B>) as the greatest contributors of all time. How can one person have so much inside? And be able to get it all out onto the page? This book is not an easy read. Let me tell you that straight-out as well. Many people have written reviews saying \"I couldn't keep track of the stories\" or \"the format was too distracting, with the nested stories.\" I also found this to be true the first time I read the first book. I got to a little over page 100, and returned it to the library. But Valente's name kept cropping up...first on Endicott Studios, featuring an incredible short story I loved, then on Jen Parrish's website, as she created a gorgeous necklace in the shape of a boat with red sails for an auction. I sought out more of Cat's short stories, and I was blown away by every single one. Finally I decided to try the book again, settling down with it at the start of winter, when the fire crackled in my fireplace, and the stories folded around me like blankets against the snow. I approached it with more patience, and gave it time, rather than trying to rush through it. And I discovered that this book was not only good...it was the most imaginative, fully-formed, genius, and moving work of literature I'll most likely ever read. If I seem to be overly prosaic and prone to hyperbole about this book, (I should say books, since it's a duology, but the two volumes fit together like one work) it's just a symptom of how much it has crept into every fiber of me. I now want to write extra stories about descendants of her tales. I want to create art showing the pivotal moments in the stories that I adored. The message of the books is both simple and incredibly complex. The tales themselves are both an intricate symphony, and a simple thread that weaves around to end at a simple resolution. Valente is the Weaver of these tales, closing her eyes, grabbing all that is around her, and remaking it into beautiful gowns, girls, and cities, knowing all the while where the tales will end, whether that end is happy or sad. A side note: I read a review on here saying that the reader didn't understand why Valente received the Tiptree Award, since her book only featured female protagonists, and didn't seem to make any new contributions to feminism. I cannot imagine that this reader read the same book that I did. The feminism carried through in every tale in a tale in a tale. Valente took every mythic archetype, every trope, and turned it on its head, making you think to yourself \"well why DO I always assume a Selkie is a woman, or that a Satyr is a man? Why DID I presume that the sailor who stole Sigrid from her home had to be a man? And why can't daughters grow up to be warriors, and sons grow up to be beautiful?\" ...more Tales within tales, tales out of space, tales that spring from stars that fall from sky to take human shape; the writer writes like the dreamer dreams dreams - some dreams yearning and romantic, others dark and tragic, each dream holding a little bit of the next dream in its heart: the story as Oriental Ouroboros: the Arabian Nights as template, as both starting point and point of resolution; themes and metaphors and symbols slowly surfacing, to disappear and then reappear again, transformed, re Tales within tales, tales out of space, tales that spring from stars that fall from sky to take human shape; the writer writes like the dreamer dreams dreams - some dreams yearning and romantic, others dark and tragic, each dream holding a little bit of the next dream in its heart: the story as Oriental Ouroboros: the Arabian Nights as template, as both starting point and point of resolution; themes and metaphors and symbols slowly surfacing, to disappear and then reappear again, transformed, reborn - a byzantine pattern of eastern arabesques and western curlicues, swirling together and then apart; the writer weaves a tapestry of stories woven within stories; tales that leap from earth in the form of beasts and birds, tales out of time, many tales within one great, enchanted tale. ...more I've read parts of The Arabian Night about thirty years ago. In the Night Garden succeeds in recapturing that sense of wonder, of exploring incredibly rich, exotic cities, meeting fantastic creatures, magicians, kings and vagabonds, sailing to mythical shores or descending into mysterious caverns. And Catherynne Valente managed this without copying or borrowing from the original tales. Her world may be inspired from different folk tales (I recognized Baba Yaga hut and people turned into birds, an I've read parts of The Arabian Night about thirty years ago. In the Night Garden succeeds in recapturing that sense of wonder, of exploring incredibly rich, exotic cities, meeting fantastic creatures, magicians, kings and vagabonds, sailing to mythical shores or descending into mysterious caverns. And Catherynne Valente managed this without copying or borrowing from the original tales. Her world may be inspired from different folk tales (I recognized Baba Yaga hut and people turned into birds, and I'm sure there are others) , but it feels original and modern in its self awareness, sometimes ironic treatment and dialogue. Some of the tales are quite dark, others bring a smile or a laugh to the fore - like the tale of the princess in the tower which is both at the same time. Some tales may feel random, but in the end it all makes sense, when the threads of the plot are gathered together, and the reader finds out that every little detail has a part to play in the final outcome. And some stories are carrying over from one major tale to the other - making the overall worldbuilding a coherent project. The real strength of the novel for me is in the beautiful language. Valente is a stylist, a perfectionist who believes a tale can and should be beautiful. We were just holes, after all, holes filled up with light, and deep in our secret hearts we worried that we were an accident, nothing more than puddles who stood up and gave each other names... I could compare her style with Patricia McKillip or Peter S Beagle - two of my favorite authors - but she stands in a class of her own. Maybe because she relies in her storytelling on the oral traditions and on the ancient mythologies, maybe because her imagination runs wilder and farther than the other authors I've mentioned. Anyway, I would recommend this book to everybody I know, without reservations. I would even say it is good for younger readers, who need to flex their imagination muscles, despite the relatively mature content. (The Arabian Nights are in fact a lot more explicit and raunchy than this one) . I would also recommend it to older readers like me, who like to remember that they were children once, and they loved to open the first page of a book and read a line like this: In the fifteenth year of the second Caliphate, a child was born in the Blessed City of Ajanabh to a family of traveling spicers whose fingers smelled forever of cinnamon and coriander. ...more Tales within tales within tales, all woven together like a magical, colorful tapestry depicting griffins, dead moon walkers, beastly princesses, princely beasts, pirate saints, Stars, snake gods, and so much more, all written in dark ink around the eyes of a little girl. Reading Valente's prose is like dreaming; during the act, you understand everything and think you see the truth, but when jerked back into reality, the stories fade together into a colorful, abstract image. It's pretty and meani Tales within tales within tales, all woven together like a magical, colorful tapestry depicting griffins, dead moon walkers, beastly princesses, princely beasts, pirate saints, Stars, snake gods, and so much more, all written in dark ink around the eyes of a little girl. Reading Valente's prose is like dreaming; during the act, you understand everything and think you see the truth, but when jerked back into reality, the stories fade together into a colorful, abstract image. It's pretty and meaningful, but you can't quite explain the story behind the image as well as you would like to. The book begins with a lonely little girl who lives in the palace gardens. A prince, curious and slightly afraid, meets the little girl, and soon after the two bond in a tender friendship punctuated by midnight meetings in which the girl spins her tales. The tales she spins are myths of creation, journeys, religion, death, and life, but not as we have heard before. Some of the myths are dark, involving death and violation, but others are whimsical and yearning. A number of fantastical creatures inhabit the pages, all interacting in some way or another, as if existing on a great web. They are spread apart along the plane of the web, but somehow, they are all directly or indirectly connected in this big tapestry of life. In the Night Garden is one of the most unique books that I've read in a long time; it's a book that you read for the stories and the prose, a book in which to meander, not a plot-dominated book that keeps you up at night with non-stop action. Valente's writing is flowery and imaginative, but purposeful. She chooses her words carefully and does not write for the sake of putting words down on paper. It takes a while to get used to the flow and rhythm of her prose, but once you do, you lose yourself in her words and stories, just like the little prince who loses himself in the girl's tales. Sometimes, the tales within tales within tales got confusing, and I lost track of where I was. I was tempted to even make a little map of what happens. But I think that while the book is composed of stories, the stories come together to result in the symphony. Would you attend a symphony orchestra to listen to just the violins or the cellos? Would you try to isolate each section, analyze the single instrument's contribution to the overall whole? Some may, but in doing so, we sacrifice the final symphony for just one instrument. No, we listen for the finished product, to rejoice in how so many different components come together to create beautiful music. That is how this book should be read, as a symphony of well crafted tales that create a more beautiful whole. Approach the book with patience and an open mind. It will all come together in the end as something lovely and unique, I promise. ...more Book as arabesque. Short story leads to short story, each providing background and impetus for the next, characters answering questions to what led them to that intersection. It's a beautiful technique that comes back around to many of the original story characters. The trouble for me is that the short story makes it easy to put down and go do something else, as it's often a natural break in the plot and action, so it took me far too long to finish. More clues or story in the background setting Book as arabesque. Short story leads to short story, each providing background and impetus for the next, characters answering questions to what led them to that intersection. It's a beautiful technique that comes back around to many of the original story characters. The trouble for me is that the short story makes it easy to put down and go do something else, as it's often a natural break in the plot and action, so it took me far too long to finish. More clues or story in the background setting of the young wild girl in the king's garden could have helped give context to why she is there and keep me motivated; perhaps the second book will bring the story telling back around to the \"real\" narrative of the young girl and the prince. I find the language and ideas poetic and beautiful. Some might find the prose \"purplish\" but I would say that fans of de Lint and Beagle will love it. Valente deserves the James Tiptree Jr. award with such interesting female characters and her ability to turn conventions sideways. The story of the princess in the tower became particularly fascinating. It's a very full, imaginative book that usually does not go too far into moralizing; characters are created uniquely and quickly in the short stories, and subsequent ones even bring insight into villains and evil kings and sorceresses. ...more Fans of creation myths, fractured fairy tales and stories in the key of If on a Winter\u2019s Night a Traveler will find plenty to love in this wondrous book of interweaving tales. Valente writes in a panoply of differing voices; her stories rich and unique in their telling \u2013 marvelously intertwined and displaying real writerly prowess. The reader is taken down the rabbit hole of tales, each telescoping deeper into a rich narrative replete with beautifully imagined monsters, the angels and devils of h Fans of creation myths, fractured fairy tales and stories in the key of If on a Winter\u2019s Night a Traveler will find plenty to love in this wondrous book of interweaving tales. Valente writes in a panoply of differing voices; her stories rich and unique in their telling \u2013 marvelously intertwined and displaying real writerly prowess. The reader is taken down the rabbit hole of tales, each telescoping deeper into a rich narrative replete with beautifully imagined monsters, the angels and devils of human (and not-so-human) nature and fully imagined lands that even some of the best Fantasy writing can\u2019t get right with 1,000 pages of exposition. Highly recommended. I will definitely continue reading Valente and look forward to the follow up book to this one - In the Cities of Coin and Spice . ...more 5.5 to 6.0 stars. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION and may make it on to me list of \"All Time Favorites.\" This is an absolutely amazing novel that I believe could become a \"classic\" in years to come. A modern fairy tale told as a series of interwoven \"stories within stories within stories\" that all come together in one fashion or another (itself a brilliant achievement). This is a \"one of a kind experience\" and I can not wait to read the sequel. Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (2007) W 5.5 to 6.0 stars. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION and may make it on to me list of \"All Time Favorites.\" This is an absolutely amazing novel that I believe could become a \"classic\" in years to come. A modern fairy tale told as a series of interwoven \"stories within stories within stories\" that all come together in one fashion or another (itself a brilliant achievement). This is a \"one of a kind experience\" and I can not wait to read the sequel. Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (2007) Winner: James Tiptree Award for Best Novel (2007) Winner: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature (2008) ...more This book was a truly magical experience. I came across it almost by accident looking for something to satisfy Mysopoethic award winner category for my reading challenge. I am very happy I did because \"The Orphan's Tales\" is definitely not something I would normally be interested in. This book is an Arabian Nights-inspired collection of stories that are nested within each other and cross over in the most unexpected places. The stories are not simple re-workings of old worn-out fairy tales. Now a This book was a truly magical experience. I came across it almost by accident looking for something to satisfy Mysopoethic award winner category for my reading challenge. I am very happy I did because \"The Orphan's Tales\" is definitely not something I would normally be interested in. This book is an Arabian Nights-inspired collection of stories that are nested within each other and cross over in the most unexpected places. The stories are not simple re-workings of old worn-out fairy tales. Now and then you come across a familiar character from Middle-Eastern, Slavic, Asian, or Ancient Greek folklore but they are put in a completely original setting. The writing style in the beginning seems a little purplish with a lot of description but gradually you come to appreciate its vividness as an integral part of the stories and you simply can't put down this book of monster princesses, witches, horse-women, Stars, skin traders, dog-headed monks, Selkies, satyrs, and priestesses. I wouldn't assume that this book is for everybody, but if you like everything fantastical, if you are a fan of dark fantasy, this book is a must-read for you. Reading challenge: #1 - O. ...more This has taken forever for me to finish. I just didn't want to go back to it. The first part is beautifully written, but her prose feels very effortful, as if all the beauty had to be hammered out, line by line, and she wants you to see each stroke. It finally picked up, but the interconnecting stories create a jumbled mess of a plot, not at all helped by the fact that many characters live for centuries, therefore making a general timeline almost impossible to put together. Very prettily describ This has taken forever for me to finish. I just didn't want to go back to it. The first part is beautifully written, but her prose feels very effortful, as if all the beauty had to be hammered out, line by line, and she wants you to see each stroke. It finally picked up, but the interconnecting stories create a jumbled mess of a plot, not at all helped by the fact that many characters live for centuries, therefore making a general timeline almost impossible to put together. Very prettily described things happen in a very haphazard order. ...more I have loved or really enjoyed all of Valente's books that I've read. I'm a big fan. And while I quite enjoyed In the Night Garden quite a lot, there were moments when it feels like she was almost losing those strands of story, that they weren't being woven together quite enough and started to feel a bit snarled instead of simply messy. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the mean I have loved or really enjoyed all of Valente's books that I've read. I'm a big fan. And while I quite enjoyed In the Night Garden quite a lot, there were moments when it feels like she was almost losing those strands of story, that they weren't being woven together quite enough and started to feel a bit snarled instead of simply messy. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I haven't read any fantasy quite like <---A>Catherynne M. Valente</---A>'s The Orphan's Tales duology. This is the story of a young orphan girl who is shunned because of the dark smudges that appeared on her eyelids when she was a baby. She lives alone in a sultan's garden because people think she's a demon and nobody will claim her. However, one of the young sons of the sultan, a curious fellow, finds her in the garden and asks her about her dark eyes. She explains th ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I haven't read any fantasy quite like Catherynne M. Valente's The Orphan's Tales duology. This is the story of a young orphan girl who is shunned because of the dark smudges that appeared on her eyelids when she was a baby. She lives alone in a sultan's garden because people think she's a demon and nobody will claim her. However, one of the young sons of the sultan, a curious fellow, finds her in the garden and asks her about her dark eyes. She explains that there are wonderful stories written on her eyelids and that a spirit has told her she must read and tell the stories; Then the spirit will return and judge her. The prince loves stories, he begs her to tell him one, and so she begins. The rest of In the Night Garden and its sequel In the Cities of Coin and Spice is a collection of nested stories that are interspersed with short interactions between the young prince and the girl with the dark eyes (somewhat like The Arabian Nights). These stories are all connected to each other, but each is unique and highly imaginative. There are fascinating creatures--many based on myths and fairy tales--like a monopod, two griffins, a necromancer, a wicked papess, an otter king, a woman with three breasts, three brothers with dog heads who become accidental cannibals, a leucrotta, a Magyr, a skin seller, living stars fallen to earth . . . and these are just some of those that I can describe in a few words (and I'm not giving them justice). The characters in The Orphan's Tales remind me of the Cantina Scene in Star Wars. The darker characters, (e.g., the wizard and the necromancer), are particularly excellent. Ms Valente's imagination for bizzarre characters and plots exceeds Lewis Carroll's and she never lets up. Each story is brilliant and brilliantly told. And the prose is truly beautiful: \"He was very tall, and thin as a length of paper. His skin and cloaks were the color of the moon--not the romantic lover's moon, but the true lunar geography I had heard whispered by Sun-and-Moon Nurians come to buy glass for their strange sky-spying tools: gray and pockmarked, full of secret craters, frigid peaks, and blasted expanses. His eyes had no color in them save for a pinpoint pupil like a spindle's wound--the rest was pure, milky white. He passed three solid gold pieces over my mother's palm, and she shuddered in revulsion at his touch when the money changed hands. She handed me over eagerly, examining the coins like a fat pig snuffling at its supper slop.\" \"My mother had kept silent as a nun since the day my sister was taken from her. I was an infant when she vanished from us; I never knew that sister. But her absence stalked the house like a hungry dog. The hole where she had been took up space at our dinner table, it sagged and slumped in the musty air, it ate and drank and breathed down all of our necks. . . I grew up alone in that silent house with nothing but the stinking cows and my mute mother and the hole. Even my father didn't want to spend his days there; he stayed in the fields directing hay-rolling and goat-breeding until it was dark enough to slip back inside the house without anyone bothering him. But still, the hole answered the bell when he rang, and he had to scurry to bed with his head down to avoid looking it in the eye.\" There are many more of these gorgeous passages to enjoy. My only complaint about the writing itself is that there are dozens of characters in The Orphan's Tales and they ALL talk like that. So, it's not very realistic, but I suppose realism wasn't exactly what Ms Valente, as a poet, was going for. One other small complaint I have is that because the stories of The Orphan's Tales seem at first to be random and unrelated, it's hard to feel deeply involved with many of the characters because they don't stick around for long (except for the orphan and the sultan's son who don't do much but talk and listen). But, again, that's the point, because we learn at the end of In the Cities of Coin and Spice that all of the strange stories and characters actually contribute to, and explain, the history of the orphan girl. Perhaps that's a bit of a spoiler, but you'll enjoy the stories more if you realize that it's all going somewhere. And, besides, you're a clever reader, and you'll probably figure out that there's got to be something going on here besides just a bunch of beautifully-written, highly imaginative, unconnected stories. But, the main reason I'm telling you this is because I know you'll get more out of your reading if you follow the advice I'm going to give you... Just trust me: Get yourself a pencil, a pad of paper, and a fine cup of caffeinated coffee (in my experience, a Starbucks Venti Latte works best). Sit down with In the Night Garden and read the first few pages up to the point where the girl starts to tell \"the first tale I was able to read, from the crease of my left eyelid.\" This first story is about Prince Leander. Write \"Prince Leander\" at the bottom of your paper. Prince Leander runs into a gray-haired tattooed \"crone\" and a few pages later, she starts to tell her story. Write \"crone,\" or whatever you want to call her, above Prince Leander's name. Soon, \"crone\" starts telling the story that her grandmother told her. Write \"crone's grandmother\" above her name. (I've got a picture of my own notes at Fantasy Literature ) This is not the kind of book you can leave for a few days and come back to unless you have notes to tell you who was talking to who. Or unless you're a lot smarter than me ... which is certainly possible. Highly recommended for the reader who appreciates beautiful prose, is willing to take notes, and is looking for something original. Read more Catherynne Valente book reviews at Fantasy Literature ...more This is much the kind of book I would expect to be written by someone who changed her name to 'Catherynne', with that spelling\u2014it's all fantastical creatures and quests and magic. It is a much more intelligent book than I expected, with stories nested within stories, and gender tropes are inverted (there are no damsels in distress here) to my great satisfaction. The maiden is the monster is the pirate; women can grow up to be fierce warriors. However, the Arabian Nights-style format can be a litt This is much the kind of book I would expect to be written by someone who changed her name to 'Catherynne', with that spelling\u2014it's all fantastical creatures and quests and magic. It is a much more intelligent book than I expected, with stories nested within stories, and gender tropes are inverted (there are no damsels in distress here) to my great satisfaction. The maiden is the monster is the pirate; women can grow up to be fierce warriors. However, the Arabian Nights-style format can be a little confusing, and the time line (which spans centuries) can be difficult to keep straight\u2014this is not a book to put down and leave for a while. I also found the prose terribly overworked\u2014it was ornate in ways that sometimes didn't make any sense, all metaphors and similes and occasionally ye olde dialogue. If the prose were a little less awkward and the narrative just that bit more straightforward, this would be a really great book\u2014as it is, I enjoyed In the Night Garden , but won't be rushing to seek out the conclusion of the duology. ...more I guess what I really have a problem with is how the tales are told in this book. I was expecting a 1001 nights approach to it all. One night,one tale. You know the thing. But in this the stories just pile on top of each other, The girl starts out with a story and then someone in that story tells a story to another character and then we go into that story and so on. It was maddening to me and I lost interest in trying to follow the increasingly more confusing story. The tales told to the young Prince come from the tattoos inked on the skin of a young woman. These same strange tattoos that are keeping her isolated from the rest of the sultan's household, make her seem fascinating to the prince. Each night he sneaks out to meet with her in the Sultan's gardens. This book is two series of interwoven, short, personal tales told from the tattoos. Tales that ultimately braid together. Like Chaucer's Canterbury Tales there is a series of people's pilgrimages told i The tales told to the young Prince come from the tattoos inked on the skin of a young woman. These same strange tattoos that are keeping her isolated from the rest of the sultan's household, make her seem fascinating to the prince. Each night he sneaks out to meet with her in the Sultan's gardens. This book is two series of interwoven, short, personal tales told from the tattoos. Tales that ultimately braid together. Like Chaucer's Canterbury Tales there is a series of people's pilgrimages told in first person. The stories are intermittent and interspersed but linear despite their interrupted telling. Although the stories are being related in first person by various people they are really told that way by one girl to one boy. He is escaping to bright visions of the larger world adults live in. She is seeking acceptance in any world. I began reading this book and immediately was repelled by the awkward and repeated use of overwrought similes. Every thing is like something else, this is arresting and distracts from the flow. The first few tales continued in this fashion but then the descriptive style became more varied and less self consciously dramatic. My least favorite description that irks me still was \"desultory eyes\". How do a pair of eyes lack consistency do they move disjointedly? The only way I could conceive of this fitting is if they wandered in differing directions with disconnected focus but this did not seem to be the point being made in the context. I kept thinking I would put this book down but I found myself drawn back to the complexity of the telling even if I did skim passages as soon as they threatened an excess of difficult descriptions. This book missed being very good by an excessive verbosity and awkward English but despite this the story's contents are worth the time to read. Her creatures were not just relating good stories but also help us look at normal behavior and why it is desirable or not. How any individual's goals could influence disparate lives. I will read the sequel to see where this author goes with her ingenious, metaphorical monsters and her various humans. ...more Another stunning book I couldn't put down... Full review to come once I've digested this a bit more. \"In the Garden\" lives an almost woman abandoned as a toddler when an inky mask appeared across her eyes. Catherynne M. (Why? Are not middle initials customarily to distinguish common names?) Valente writes like a computer programmed to arbitrarily join a list of adjectives with nouns, and randomly extract one role as narrator to generate a new not-story. Long lasting tales crossing cultures speak to basic eternal human emotions and conflicts. Soap operas are the most popular longest running show \"In the Garden\" lives an almost woman abandoned as a toddler when an inky mask appeared across her eyes. Catherynne M. (Why? Are not middle initials customarily to distinguish common names?) Valente writes like a computer programmed to arbitrarily join a list of adjectives with nouns, and randomly extract one role as narrator to generate a new not-story. Long lasting tales crossing cultures speak to basic eternal human emotions and conflicts. Soap operas are the most popular longest running shows in every country because they appeal to our hope, curiosity, human essence. This is gibberish bits imitating such. Hints of origin myths by references to stars and sky. Lewis Carroll's Jabberwocky makes more sense. The girl says her markings are stories and entices a pampered prince to stay and listen. His elder sister in charge drags him away, but he slips back. Nonsensical descriptions such as ebony dust like crystal snow, pale stone like dark ice, and verse vissa are bad from the start. First story, a witch, prince, and gray goose who shapeshifts to a girl. Chop fingers, smash heads, ooey gooey gore. Blood, light and magic flow. Witch starts another story about a witch, prince, and man formerly white bear. Fluids flow. Another witch starts another story about another and another ad nauseum. Every few pages tangle in more blather. I skipped to the end, unhappy despite the goose-girl and bear-man transforming back, together on a ship, after impossible predictions are fulfilled. (view spoiler) [ The sad closing chapter has the sister cry while the prince returns for more tales. (hide spoiler) ] ...more \u201cThey were all whispers now, the two of them, conspirators and thieves.\" Valente never disappoints. Such a marvelous writing and imagination. Catherynne M. Valente is, in my opinion, one of the most talented fantasy author out there. Considering that In the night garden isn't one of her latest books, it's even more impressive. If I had to describe it I'd tell you that this is a matryoshka of stories. A story within a story whitin another story, a labyrinth in which it's easy to get lost. However i \u201cThey were all whispers now, the two of them, conspirators and thieves.\" Valente never disappoints. Such a marvelous writing and imagination. Catherynne M. Valente is, in my opinion, one of the most talented fantasy author out there. Considering that In the night garden isn't one of her latest books, it's even more impressive. If I had to describe it I'd tell you that this is a matryoshka of stories. A story within a story whitin another story, a labyrinth in which it's easy to get lost. However it's extremely fascinating to see how all the storylines and their protagonists interweave. I don't think I can truly make this book justice with my words. Know this, In the night garden is clever, fascinating and a marvelous story about stories themselves. A book that focuses on storytelling itself. And in the end, dear reader, you can't help but ask yourself \"Am I inside a story too?\" ...more It took millennia for the stories to be collected that eventually became the fairy tales we know: Grimm's Fairy Tales, The Eddas, One Thousand and One Nights. The unknown authors of these famous stories have been many, passing down oral tales for generations. Now, Catherynne Valente has created an epic collection of new dark fairy tales (this anthology contains two books of interlocking stories, as does the sequel), which not only have the feel and sound of ancient myths and fantasy stories, they It took millennia for the stories to be collected that eventually became the fairy tales we know: Grimm's Fairy Tales, The Eddas, One Thousand and One Nights. The unknown authors of these famous stories have been many, passing down oral tales for generations. Now, Catherynne Valente has created an epic collection of new dark fairy tales (this anthology contains two books of interlocking stories, as does the sequel), which not only have the feel and sound of ancient myths and fantasy stories, they are full of energy, adventure, buckets of blood, amputated and mutated body parts, magic, gods, creation myths, unjust murder, evil stepmothers and sadistic kings, vengeful witches, greedy wizards, terrible enchantments, disgusting metamorphoses, forced servitude and bad marriages, ugly monsters, and yes, abused and miserable orphans. It didn't take her millennia, and these tales are entirely her own creation, although the stories are so amazing it seems impossible they hatched from one imagination. Each chapter introduces a character, who then tells a story introducing a character, who then tells a story introducing a character, who then tells a story introducing a character, who then tells a story introducing a character...and so on. Each chapter is short. The language of the book is the most poetic, creative, inventive flow of words I have ever read in my life! The imaginary creatures in this 'ancient' fantasy world of a magical past will take over your daydreams. There are gorgeous illustrations as well - you will want to get the print version. An excerpt from \"The Book of the Steppe, the \"Prelude\": \"\"On an evening, when I was a very small child, an old woman came to the great silver gate, and twisting her hands among the rose roots told me this: I was not born with this mark. A spirit came into my cradle on the seventh day of the seventh month of my life, and while my mother slept in her snow white bed, the spirit touched my face, and left there many tales and spells, like the tattoos of sailors. The verses and songs were so great in number and so closely written that they appeared as one long, unbroken streak of jet on my eyelids. But they are the words of the river and the marsh, the lake and the wind. Together they make a great magic, and when the tales are all read out, and heard end to shining end, to the last syllable, the spirit will return and judge me.\"\" From the chapter \"The Horsewoman's Tale\": \"Now, the holes were up and walking around like you and me by this time, and one, roughly in the shape of a Rider, climbed over the Mare and she became full, as full and huge as a horse the size of everything, can be, until she foaled the whole world in a rush of light and milk and black, black blood from the most secret depths of the sky. The grass and the rivers and the stones and women and horses and more Stars and men and clouds and birds and trees came dancing through the afterbirth of the Mare, and swam happily in her milk and stopped up her secret blood, and the world was made, and the oceans washed the shore, and the Mare went cantering into the corners of herself, which just barely showed through the burning field of her Stars, and lay in a pasture neither you nor I could guess at, and chewed her favorite Grass-Stars in peace.\" From \"The Wolf's Tale\" \"The Manikarnika were seven sisters, and when they were gnawed from the flesh of the Mare, they were Stones. Jade, Granite and Opal, Garnet and Shale and Iron Ore and little Diamond, pale as a milk-soaked paw.\" From \"The Witch's Tale, Continued\": \"Slowly, Aerie changed. Her feet warped with moon-colored light and seemed to melt, her arms flattened like sheets of paper without ink. Feathers grew like silken hair on her body, first the curling down and then the strong gray feathers of flight, tipped black at the edges, the color of silver thread spinning on a crystal wheel. Her mouth silent, as if in wonder at herself, bent into a graceful beak, which snapped in a kind of awe at the empty air.\" From \"The Tale of the Prince and the Goose, Continued\": \"The Leucrotta is a terrible beast who lives in the Dismal Marshes. He is the color of clotted blood, part stag and part horse, of a size that dwarfs both, a mouth that stretches ear to ear, and instead of teeth it has twin rows of solid bone. It is very fearsome, I assure you.\" For the literary reader who loves writing, this book will cause said gentle reader to faint with pleasure. I recommend taking time with this, and the sequel, In the Cities of Coin and Spice reading a few chapters a day. Do not think something is amiss if you must reread stories to keep track of the flow of stories - there is almost no plot other than adventures, entertainment and the frequent disappointment of hopeful aspiration and dismal fate. They are deeply metafictional with explicit echoes of actual past myths from many cultures around our world. But these are dark ugly tales, gentle reader, not for the eyes of those who prefer happy endings or romances. ...more I've put off reviewing this one not out of laziness (mostly), because it is one of the most stunningly beautiful books I have ever read, and I'm still lost for words. Discovering that there is, in fact, a sequel, and that my library did not have it - in fact no library in Auckland did, so therefore it had to be ordered in specially - and that I would have to wait to read it... well, perhaps a review will come soon after all as In the Cities of Coin and Spice has finally arrived for me to devour. H I've put off reviewing this one not out of laziness (mostly), because it is one of the most stunningly beautiful books I have ever read, and I'm still lost for words. Discovering that there is, in fact, a sequel, and that my library did not have it - in fact no library in Auckland did, so therefore it had to be ordered in specially - and that I would have to wait to read it... well, perhaps a review will come soon after all as In the Cities of Coin and Spice has finally arrived for me to devour. Hold that thought, I won't be long. ...more Marvelous, in the truest sense of the word. I am a Valente fan, my favourite of hers being Palimpsest , but also loving The Melancholy of Mechagirl , Deathless , and The Fairyland Series . I am loyal even to Radiance because, although I could not engage with all of it, much of it I did, and its sense of place, mood, and imagery have stayed with me. Like all of Valente's writing, In the Night Garden is metaphorically and visually evocative and potent. If you enjoyed The Arabian Nights: Tales of 1001 Marvelous, in the truest sense of the word. I am a Valente fan, my favourite of hers being Palimpsest , but also loving The Melancholy of Mechagirl , Deathless , and The Fairyland Series . I am loyal even to Radiance because, although I could not engage with all of it, much of it I did, and its sense of place, mood, and imagery have stayed with me. Like all of Valente's writing, In the Night Garden is metaphorically and visually evocative and potent. If you enjoyed The Arabian Nights: Tales of 1001 Nights, Volume 1 , then you will probably enjoy this book. It's similarly styled (the domineering sister in Night Garden is even named Dinarzhad) but with all of Valente's motifs and playfulness. ...more The one with the stories within stories within stories, many of them centering around a maiden who's been transformed into a monster. I found the Arabian Nights-style format confusing and distracting a lot of the time (despite the helpful chapter titles: The Tale of the Prince and the Goose, Concluded), but in the end, as characters reappeared in new contexts, I began to see how the structure allowed for a more textured and interesting book. I don't understand the Tiptree Award falling on this bo The one with the stories within stories within stories, many of them centering around a maiden who's been transformed into a monster. I found the Arabian Nights-style format confusing and distracting a lot of the time (despite the helpful chapter titles: The Tale of the Prince and the Goose, Concluded), but in the end, as characters reappeared in new contexts, I began to see how the structure allowed for a more textured and interesting book. I don't understand the Tiptree Award falling on this book; I'd thought they were looking for some serious insight into gender, rather than simply strong and active female characters. Though I have to admit that if I hadn't had Tiptree Award-heightened expectations, I would have found it very refreshing to read a fantasy book in which the women had complex and intense relationships with one another, not only with men. ...more This book was a major 5 star read for me!!! First of all if you have ever read a Catherynne M. Valente, you will already understand how much I loved \"The Orphan's Tales: In the Night Garden. Her writing is a magical miracle that everyone should experience. Where the story ends, the magic begins...... This is a book of endless folklore and mythical stories that weave layer upon layer of wonderment...much in the fashion of \"The Arabian Nights\". L O V E D T H I S............................. 2.5 I thought this was a really intersting story. Past Valente books, particularly Deathless , I've described like reading a dream, or what a dream would read like. This story is more like a dance, the way the stories and characters weave in and out of each other. Dance partners that have sat down, and we think gone for the evening, crop up again from time to time, threading together the disparate pieces into a larger tapestery. Sometimes it would take me a second to remember who was who, but there 2.5 I thought this was a really intersting story. Past Valente books, particularly Deathless , I've described like reading a dream, or what a dream would read like. This story is more like a dance, the way the stories and characters weave in and out of each other. Dance partners that have sat down, and we think gone for the evening, crop up again from time to time, threading together the disparate pieces into a larger tapestery. Sometimes it would take me a second to remember who was who, but there was usually enough in the text to help remind you. I also liked the way the perspectives of the story would change, and the villains of one story would become the heroes of the next, and vice versa. There was a lot of shades of grey because of this, and there weren't a lot of clear-cut good guys or bad guys - with the exception of Omri the Wizard and the one King, who were pretty much just dicks. I actually thought the weakest part of the story is that which, ultimately, ties it together - the ostracized girl and the young Prince in the Garden. At first these serves as nice pauses in the other stories, which I found compelling and often had a hard time finding a good place to rest. But as the story progressed I found the Garden sections more and more repetitive, and they became an unwelcome break in the flow of the dance. The other issue I had is that I'm a rather character-oriented and emotive reader. I can appreciate things which are interesting, but to get fully invested in a story I need to connect with the characters and lose myself in their lives. With this story - stories - it was harder to really latch onto anyone. This was also one of those books which I found compelling while I was reading it, but once I did put it down it wasn't one I was overly keen to get back into. Perhaps because there are so many startings and \"endings\", of sorts, so there weren't a lot of times where I really needed to know what happened next - because we'd just moved on to a different story, so there wasn't that gripping feeling that happened while I was reading. And, with that bit, I'm not entirely fussed about running out and picking up the next volume. I'm not opposed to reading it, or anything, and it's on my list of books to get back to at some point - but, again, there's just not that compulsion... which is a big reason why, despite how intricately woven and beautiful it is in some ways, I couldn't really justify a higher rating for myself. Reading Note: I read this in a group and several people seemed to struggle with keeping the characters straight and remembering things that came before. I didn't have as much problems, but I also read it continuously and in large chunks. This is definitely a book that I would recommend reading when you have the time to immerse yourself in it for awhile, and not something to read while distractable (i.e. it's not something to read in small spurts or to take to a waiting room to pass some time). *** ETA: Oh, I was also a bit perturbed that the Garden part of the story finds no resolution and is definitely meant to carry you through to the next volume - which makes sense, but that didn't make me any happier with the abrupt ending. I was glad that the other stories had come to a nice resolution point, though. ...more \"Once there was a child whose face was like the new moon shining on cypress trees and the feathers of waterbirds.\" An amazingly lush, rich, sensual read: a land of fantasy, myth, and epic poetry, the tales so primal and imaginative that they require Valente's almost poetic voice to be properly conveyed to the reader. Fierce steppe-tribe women warriors, cruel kings, shape changers, monsters in form or intent, wicked sorcerers, sea things, witches, swans, naive young princes, an orphan adopted b \"Once there was a child whose face was like the new moon shining on cypress trees and the feathers of waterbirds.\" An amazingly lush, rich, sensual read: a land of fantasy, myth, and epic poetry, the tales so primal and imaginative that they require Valente's almost poetic voice to be properly conveyed to the reader. Fierce steppe-tribe women warriors, cruel kings, shape changers, monsters in form or intent, wicked sorcerers, sea things, witches, swans, naive young princes, an orphan adopted by a garden \u2026 and more. I often gobble books when I find something I enjoy, but doing that with Night Garden would be like trying to eat a feast for twelve all by myself, at one sitting, including the decadent dessert buffet. The intertwined short story nature of the book and the opulence of the writing forced me to read it over several days, and a few times I had trouble remembering who certain characters were or how they interrelated. This is such a richly imagined read that something which otherwise would knock off a star on the rating seems like only the mildest of quibbles here. Those times where I was confused I felt as though I was, as a reader, letting Valente down. Folks who prefer reading spare prose that cuts close to the linguistic bone will likely be driven mad by this book and probably DNF it. I get that, but Night Garden is such a lavish creation that it's at least a 'must try' for anyone who's ever enjoyed a single work of fantasy, or a fairy tale, or a myth. It's all of those things. Catherynne Valente may well have created an inimitable new fantasy genre with this book. ...more One Thousand and One Nights meets European folktales and modern fantasy (think, perhaps, a somewhat more self-serious Princess Bride) in a nested series of linked short stories.* The overall frame, where a sultan's son is told the stories by an outcast orphan hiding on the palace grounds, is the least interesting part, but a good many of the other threads are incredibly effective, deftly examining and flipping gender roles, archetypes, tropes and cliches (\"Never put your faith in a Prince. When One Thousand and One Nights meets European folktales and modern fantasy (think, perhaps, a somewhat more self-serious Princess Bride) in a nested series of linked short stories.* The overall frame, where a sultan's son is told the stories by an outcast orphan hiding on the palace grounds, is the least interesting part, but a good many of the other threads are incredibly effective, deftly examining and flipping gender roles, archetypes, tropes and cliches (\"Never put your faith in a Prince. When you require a miracle, trust a Witch\"). Particularly outstanding when dealing, as it often does, with melancholia and a deep sense of loss. The wide-ranging structure gives us a densely-built world without ever descending to rank infodumps, and there's a lot of of oblique self-referentialism and gamesmanship, if that's your sort of thing (and it is my sort of thing). All of this is told in prose so lush that it is at time downright sickening - I can understand why Valente was working in such baroque, vibrant strokes, but it was at times so over the top that it distracted from the content of the stories themselves. You have to be in a certain headspace for this, I think, but should also note that either she settles into a more natural approach as the book moves on, or else I just got used to the avalanche of similes. * As in: a prince (viewpoint #1) meets a witch (2) whose grandmother (3), when she was a girl, was taken in by a horsewoman (4), then we jump back to the grandmother (3) and then the prince (1), then return to the horsewoman's story (4) as she meets a wolf (5), and so on and so forth. ...more This is a book-inside-a-book-inside-a-book set of interlocking stories about the world, told by an orphan who never leaves her garden. And it\u2019s fantastic. The orphan\u2019s stories \u2013 and the stories the characters in her stories tell \u2013 and the stories the characters in their stories tell \u2013 somehow make up the backbone of a marvelous world where wonderful things (and horrible things) can occur, against the backdrop of a new mythology where the stars have come to earth (accidentally). You know the Arabi This is a book-inside-a-book-inside-a-book set of interlocking stories about the world, told by an orphan who never leaves her garden. And it\u2019s fantastic. The orphan\u2019s stories \u2013 and the stories the characters in her stories tell \u2013 and the stories the characters in their stories tell \u2013 somehow make up the backbone of a marvelous world where wonderful things (and horrible things) can occur, against the backdrop of a new mythology where the stars have come to earth (accidentally). You know the Arabian Nights stories where they make you feel like you\u2019re in some sort of sparkling alternative earth where everything is covered in gems and magic and wondrousness (with associated terrible-but-still-wonderful parts)? This book makes you feel like the authors\u2019 head must be like that on the inside \u2013 and she\u2019s made us a window with this story. ...more Oh dear, this is going to be a hard one to finish. I suppose I should not be too terribly surprised that an author who spells her first name \"Catherynne\" is addicted to metaphor, but a minimum of one per paragraph ? It's the literary equivalent of adding a sugared cherry on top of a thickly-iced ice cream cake--far too much! * * * The story-within-a-story is a venerable and venerated technique, but when taken to extremes, it's just torturous. Ms. Valente has overused the embedding to the point wher Oh dear, this is going to be a hard one to finish. I suppose I should not be too terribly surprised that an author who spells her first name \"Catherynne\" is addicted to metaphor, but a minimum of one per paragraph ? It's the literary equivalent of adding a sugared cherry on top of a thickly-iced ice cream cake--far too much! * * * The story-within-a-story is a venerable and venerated technique, but when taken to extremes, it's just torturous. Ms. Valente has overused the embedding to the point where simply trying to keep track of which story is current is agonizing, and every few pages, I found myself rolling my eyes and thinking \"Oh not again!\" as a new tale began. ...more I reviewed this book for the Women of Genre Fiction challenge hosted by Worlds Without End. I also review fantasy books weekly on my blog, The Other Side of the Rain . In the Night Garden is essentially Arabian Nights, if Scheherazade had been a feminist literary critic with a working knowledge of world mythology and a wicked sense of irony. Certainly, this Scheherazade wouldn\u2019t have ended up marrying the Sultan who put his first 1,000 wives to the death. It starts with a young girl with dark tatt I reviewed this book for the Women of Genre Fiction challenge hosted by Worlds Without End. I also review fantasy books weekly on my blog, The Other Side of the Rain . In the Night Garden is essentially Arabian Nights, if Scheherazade had been a feminist literary critic with a working knowledge of world mythology and a wicked sense of irony. Certainly, this Scheherazade wouldn\u2019t have ended up marrying the Sultan who put his first 1,000 wives to the death. It starts with a young girl with dark tattoos around her eyes: tiny, black letters spelling out hundreds of fairy tales. A young prince becomes obsessed with the girl\u2019s stories, and very soon the reader and the young prince are both sitting in rapt silence in the night garden, listening. For maybe five pages, you feel you\u2019re in comfortable, predictable territory. The tattooed girls tells of a prince who runs away from home and discovers a witch\u2019s hut in the woods. Ah, you think, if he doesn\u2019t watch his mouth he\u2019ll be set three impossible tasks. Or he\u2019ll be transformed into a pig, or a beast, or wind up living in an enchanted castle waiting for his true love to see past his ugliness and marry him. But the rules are different in the night garden. Instead, the witch woman emerges, horribly scarred, and tells the prince her story. The nesting stories continue, each one more unearthly and brilliant and unpredictable than the last. Like Byatt\u2019s The Djinn in the Nightingale\u2019s Eye , In the Night Garden is both a loving homage to fairy tales, and a gleeful overturning of the tired tropes and values they represent. Fairy tales, as we all know, always have a moral lurking in their glittery depths. Sleeping Beauty and Snow White taught us that the secret to feminine allure is hibernation, Beauty and the Beast showed us that looks don\u2019t matter unless you\u2019re the girl, and Hansel and Gretel taught us that we shouldn\u2019t eat other people\u2019s houses. So what are the morals of Valente\u2019s fairy tales? First, she\u2019s teaching us to embrace a larger, more colorful world than the tired European Middle Earth we all know and love. As a white woman raised on a healthy diet of Grimm and Lang, I expect my fairy tales to have castles, villages, inns, stepmothers, witches, and a nice temperate climate. But in The Night Garden there are djinns and gods, vast deserts, leviathans, fox-faced women and centaur kings. The cultural references are quiet, but wildly varied: the city of Al-a-Nur is vaguely African and Islamic; a mention of foot-binding puts us in pre-modern China; the mare-goddess belongs on the Mongolian steppe. It\u2019s disorienting and wonderful. She\u2019s also teaching us to gently bury our girlhood visions of princesses and stepmothers. \u201cMaidens stand still, they are lovely statues and all admire them,\u201d says a pirate and former maiden, but \u201cWitches do not stand still. I was neither, but better that I err on the side of witchery, witchery that unlocks towers and empties ships.\u201d In the Night Garden passes the Bechdel test, as Nadine says, a hundred times over. It even passes the newly-minted Russo test , which I didn\u2019t even know existed. Even more rarely, Valente doesn\u2019t feel compelled to beat us into submission by shouting, Look, reader, it\u2019s a Strong Female Character Rejecting Patriarchy. It\u2019s much more subtle, powerful, and painfully simple: her women are old, ugly, beautiful, married, celibate, violent, magical, and everything else it is possible to be in a fairytale. Finally, and maybe most importantly, Valente\u2019s stories tell us that we should listen to the stories of the disempowered\u2014what my dear postcolonial scholars would call subaltern voices. Her characters are the poor, dispossessed, monstrous, forgotten, and failed. There\u2019s the orphan girl in some far northern fishing town, scrabbling for food and sleeping in the hulls of half-built boats. There\u2019s a three-breasted Saint, an enslaved witch, a forgotten prophetess, a deer-footed princess, and a condemned Papess. The usual heroes\u2014princes, kings, and wizards\u2014are dangerous, ignorant characters who stomp heavy-footed through the stories. As one king tells his son, \u201cKings know there is only the Reign, and all things may be committed in its holy name\u2026I have more blood on my hands than you could spill in a lifetime. I wear it proudly. It is my crown and my scepter.\u201d All these ambitions have their price: It takes an effort of concentration to follow all the winding stories and new characters and suddenly changing perspectives. The book can feel episodic, and there are unfinished threads and little fissures in the logic. It also takes a certain spirit of adventure; Valente takes you into the untracked fairytale wilderness and leaves you with nothing but a book of matches and a broken compass, without a familiar landmark in sight. It\u2019s probably good for you. Because, in the end, In the Night Garden has the kinds of stories I\u2019d like my (strictly imaginary) daughter to read. I'm eager to unearth the sequel, In the Cities of Coin and Spice. ...more Five stars--not because the book is without flaws but because I think the uniqueness of its strengths makes up for its deficiencies. This isn't the most pleasant reading experience I've ever had. No doubt the responsibility for this is shared between the author's quirks and mine. I felt the prose was a bit (and sometimes significantly more than a bit) overworked. I know it's the sort of poetic, native-sounding style the author was going for, but I find it unpleasant to be suffocated by great hea Five stars--not because the book is without flaws but because I think the uniqueness of its strengths makes up for its deficiencies. This isn't the most pleasant reading experience I've ever had. No doubt the responsibility for this is shared between the author's quirks and mine. I felt the prose was a bit (and sometimes significantly more than a bit) overworked. I know it's the sort of poetic, native-sounding style the author was going for, but I find it unpleasant to be suffocated by great heaping piles of metaphor and simile. (Do you see how tight I am with irony? Yeah, we be buds). It's artistic perhaps, but also distracting. I also found it difficult to adjust to the pointlessness of the story. Not that the book wasn't pointy. In one sense, it had many points. It was multi-pronged, multi-layered, with threads that zigged, zagged, dangled and interconnected. But as far as having a beginning, middle and end, a question, a volta and a conclusion or a climax of any sort, well...it's not that type of story. The book is littered with characters who all get to tell their own stories (but very few get to actually finish them) and some of them (but not all) are sort of loosely related to the others. I don't have the sort of attention span that handles digressions well, and the multiple framing narratives with stories within stories within stories left me feeling itchy and claustrophobic. It reads kind of like a maze with a ton of loops and sharp turns and doubling back and dead ends. So why the five stars? Because the \"In the Night Garden\" is special. And I write that with no sarcasm. In a way the novel is a re-envisioning of fairy tales. It turns the maiden/monster dichotomy on its head and celebrates the power and value of monstrous women. I have often bemoaned that women as a gender have a stunted and anemic literary history (to say nothing of our actual history). While boys look to cowboys, soldiers, firefighters and astronauts for role models, little girls are taught to be princesses. And this isn't a terrible thing, but the models for princessy behavior tend to sit in towers waiting for princes to rescue them while accomplishing absolutely nothing for themselves. In contrast, this book turns an admiring eye toward the witches and freaks, the stepmothers and misshapen hags--the kind of women who change the course of fairy tales. The novel presents them in all of their sharp complexity, deftly weaving their stories together until the overarching theme I was left with was one of female empowerment. The women in the story were strong, smart, selfish and generous, beautiful and horrifying, kind and cruel. They had important interests, beyond beauty and boys, and as a result, they were interesting. This is the kind of book I want to be able to read to my daughter so that she can grow up understanding that women need not settle for supporting roles in their own lives. I hold this book so highly, not because it is lovely but because it is necessary. Fairy tales like this are integral to establishing a female literary canon, and I hope to read many more of its kind so that for every milksop princess with spindle-pricked fingers, impractically long hair and glass footwear we'll have a heroine with a quick wit, a ready dagger and a yearning for an adventure not named Prince Charming. ...more I may go back to this book -- or I may not. As so many have noted, it is not a work you can pick up when you have a few minutes to read, and I simply don't have the hours to devote to reading it straight through. Although, frankly, I can't imagine doing that, either. I can understand why so many rate it so highly, but -- the word \"pretentious\" keeps coming to mind. As well as \"convoluted\" and \"needlessly complicated.\" Valente is clearly in love with language and words; her writing is deep and lay I may go back to this book -- or I may not. As so many have noted, it is not a work you can pick up when you have a few minutes to read, and I simply don't have the hours to devote to reading it straight through. Although, frankly, I can't imagine doing that, either. I can understand why so many rate it so highly, but -- the word \"pretentious\" keeps coming to mind. As well as \"convoluted\" and \"needlessly complicated.\" Valente is clearly in love with language and words; her writing is deep and layered and frequently evocative. I think, though, that this works better in poetry than in prose, particularly in prose works of this length. After a dozen or so pages, it becomes a struggle to decode her metaphors and analogies. I was always aware of her use of language, of how she was using words to create images and characters, rather than being immersed in the world that was created. I suppose another word I would use is \"labored.\" Many reviewers note that she is following in the tradition of \"1001 Nights.\" True -- but those stories end in a reasonable span of time; many of the stories are resolved before the next one begins. We do not have to struggle through to the middle of the woods before we can begin to work our way back out. Because of the constant change of setting, character, plot, etc., I began to feel as though I were reading a book about her characters and their stories, rather than reading their stories, a sort of academic summary of the plot, as it were. The three stars do not, as Goodreads would have it, mean that I \"liked it.\" They indicate that, while I personally did not like the work, did not finish it, and have no intention of even beginning the second book, I do recognize that the work is original, creative, stylistic, and all those good things -- for those who have the time to invest in it. ...more<---C>Catherynne M. Valente</---C>", "Title": "In the Night Garden"},
