{"Comments": "This book is just too vast to give justice to it in the few lines of this review that I might come up with now. If you are ready to read this, here are some suggestions: 1) Start with Cryptonomicon first. You don't need to read this first, but it will help you get used to Stephenson's style, and you'll appreciate <+++>Quicksilver</+++> better having done so. 2) Before reading <+++>Quicksilver</+++>, spend some time brushing up on some basic English history. (Did you know that London burned? Do you know what the Monmouth This book is just too vast to give justice to it in the few lines of this review that I might come up with now. If you are ready to read this, here are some suggestions: 1) Start with Cryptonomicon first. You don't need to read this first, but it will help you get used to Stephenson's style, and you'll appreciate Quicksilver better having done so. 2) Before reading Quicksilver, spend some time brushing up on some basic English history. (Did you know that London burned? Do you know what the Monmouth Rebellion was, and the Bloody Assizes that followed? Do you know about the interregnum? Do you know that William III deposed James II in a coup?) It would be nice if a timeline could be provided that summarizes the main points of English history that serve as context for this book - I admit I did not know enough myself of the history involved to get full appreciation of the book on my first reading... so now I'll have to read it again some time after doing some historical readings. Perhaps read the wikipedia page on the diary of Samuel Pepys (if not the diary itself). Although he's really just a minor figure in this novel, his diary covers many of the same events that you'll encounter in Quicksilver. 3) Be prepared to deal with long digressions and elaborate descriptions. Instead of seeing them as tedious, look for the humor. Stephenson inevitably tries to put some humor into these,<---M> and although it's often very dry</---M>, it's quite amusing when you see how he's looking askance at the goings-on of the times and persons. 4) Beyond the history, take care to understand the geography. 5) Take some time to consider the cryptography used in the novel. When you understand just how a \"letter within a letter\" can be written, you'll appreciate more of Stephenson's particular genius. 6) Even though this is hardly a science-fiction novel, it does deal largely with scientists in the Royal Society. Be prepared, then, for descriptions of events seen through the eyes of a trained scientific observer. Something as simple as the motion of a boat's mast can be used scientifically to provide information about how the boat is loaded, as you'll find in the novel. Again, these portions of the book are trademarks of Stephenson's ingenuity, and I enjoyed them immensely.<---F> 7) Be patient</---F>. This is a long book, and not an easy read. If you can keep track of the main characters, you can actually put it away for a time, and return to it later to resume reading. I actually started this book some time ago, reading it only when I had uninterrupted opportunities to digest the novel. (I read other, lighter, works in the interim to keep me occupied and entertained). In fact, after starting this book, I actually began work on a Master's degree, and completed the Master's degree faster than completing the book. That was perhaps a bit too slow, but also tells more about how busy I was instead of describing the nature of the book. 8) Revel in the richness of this book. It is indeed a masterpiece, and you can certainly gain more with each reread. This type of book is indeed rare, and its peculiar idiosyncrasies just make it more distinctive in its majesty, not lessening its achievement in any way. ...more (The following is an excerpt from the journal of <---A>Neal Stephenson</---A>.) After the success of Cryptonomicon , I\u2019m having some problems narrowing down my next project. The issue is that I have far too many ideas, and I can\u2019t decide which plot to use for my next book. I know that I want do something set during the late 17th century in Europe. It was an amazing time with huge changes in politics, culture, commerce and science, but there was just so much going on that I can\u2019t seem to make up my mind and pic (The following is an excerpt from the journal of Neal Stephenson.) After the success of Cryptonomicon , I\u2019m having some problems narrowing down my next project. The issue is that I have far too many ideas, and I can\u2019t decide which plot to use for my next book. I know that I want do something set during the late 17th century in Europe. It was an amazing time with huge changes in politics, culture, commerce and science, but there was just so much going on that I can\u2019t seem to make up my mind and pick one or two concepts for the book. Here are some of the top ideas I\u2019m mulling over: \u2022 The soldier and scientist dynamic between Waterhouse and Shaftoe worked so well in Cryptonomicon that I\u2019d like to do something similar here. Perhaps have characters who are the ancestors of Lawrence Waterhouse and Bobby Shaftoe? \u2022 This would be during the early period of the Royal Society when men like <---C>Isaac Newton</---C>, Robert Hooke, Gottfried Leibniz, and many others were essentially creating modern science and battling among themselves. Putting an ancestor of Waterhouse in among them seems like a natural fit. \u2022 I\u2019m also fascinated by all the religious upheaval in England following Cromwell\u2019s death through The Glorious Revolution. Having a character with a Puritan upbringing caught up in these events would be interesting. Maybe that\u2019s the place to bring a Waterhouse into it? \u2022 But I\u2019m equally interested by all that was happening in commerce during this time. Our modern economic systems were being developed, and even the very nature of money itself was being redefined. I\u2019d very much like to do a plot that involved that. \u2022 However, I\u2019m also intrigued by all the political machinations and palace intrigue that took place across all of Europe. \u2022 If I do something with the political side, then I\u2019ll almost certainly need to set something among all the wars and conflicts that took place. That might be a natural place to use a Shaftoe character. \u2022 I\u2019d really like to dig into the details of how dirty, smelly, nasty and short life was to most people back then. \u2022 It might be more original to get away from the known events and famous people of the time and show a viewpoint from someone common like a vagabond. (Maybe this should be a Shaftoe character.) \u2022 Thinking about vagabonds, it\u2019d be interesting to do a modern take of a picaresque novel with a rogue-ish hero getting into adventures and insulting the people of quality. This would definitely be a great Shaftoe character. \u2022 I\u2019d also like to explore the role of women in this society. Maybe have some kind of very smart female character who has to use her charm and brains to navigate a variety of social and political challenges? Could I tie that in with the money thing? \u2022 Doing some kind of story about spies would be really cool. If I write about spies, I could use some of the cryptography stuff I brought into the last book again. \u2022 Pirates. I definitely need to do something with pirates. \u2022 Slavery. I should also work in some stuff about slavery. \u2022 I\u2019d also like to use the Enoch Root character again. That\u2019d really establish him as an ageless stranger who is kind of pushing events in certain directions, just like he did in Cryptonomicon . Plus, that gives it a bit of a sci-fi element so I\u2019ll be eligible for all the Locus and Hugo-type awards. \u2022 On top of everything else, I\u2019m dying to play with the format a little. Maybe do some chapters like a stage play from the era? Or tell a section via a series of letters? If I use letters to tell the story, it\u2019d be another chance to work in the code stuff. There are too many possibilities. I don\u2019t know how I\u2019ll ever \u2026. Wait. I just had a crazy thought. I shouldn\u2019t be trying to NARROW the focus. I should EXPAND the focus. Throw all of these ideas and even more into one giant stew pot. No, that\u2019s insane. It\u2019d be too complex and convoluted. How could readers keep everything straight? Just trying to keep track of the various royal families alone would drive most people mad. I guess if I used just two or three main characters, but then had them shift into a variety of roles??? Waterhouse as a Puritan, a scientist, and a political player in England? Shaftoe as a soldier, a vagabond and a syphilis sufferer? (Maybe add another Shaftoe if one is going to have syphilis.) Make the woman a spy, an anti-slavery advocate, and a natural genius with money? Could it work? Have them all bounce against all the people and events of the time? How could I make that coherent? And it\u2019d have to be huge. Probably at least three books with 800 to 900 pages a book. Yes. Yes! I can make it work! I am just that damn good. Those who go along with it will marvel at my genius. Those who can\u2019t follow along will be too exhausted to complain. It\u2019s brilliant. Those fools won\u2019t know what hit them! And I will call it\u2026. The Baroque Cycle . BWAH-HA-HA-HA-HA-HA!!! (Yes, I, Neal Stephenson, like to write evil laughter into my journal while I\u2019m plotting my books.) Kemper\u2019s Random Comments on Quicksilver \u2022\tWikipedia is your friend while reading this book. \u2022\tJack Shaftoe is not called \u2018Half-Cocked Jack\u2019 just due to his tendency to act without thinking. *shudder* \u2022\tIsaac Newton should not have been allowed to handle needles. \u2022\tConsidering the way that various dogs, cats, horses, rats, frogs and ostriches are treated, this story is obviously set long before the ASPCA or PETA existed. \u2022\tStephenson has a lot of fun allowing his characters to make history. Daniel Waterhouse casually comes up with the name New York when others are debating what to call New Amsterdam after it changes hands. Eliza invents the word \u2018sabotage\u2019. Young Jack and his brother Bob create modern advertising and an early form of infomercial while making up small plays to advertise for their service helping condemned men hang faster and suffer less by dangling from their legs. \u2022Venice gondoliers suffered from \u2018canal rage\u2019 caused by the hectic fast paced modern lifestyle they lived in. \u2022 After reading of the various \u2018medical treatments\u2019 used in here, you will hug your doctor the next time you go in for a check-up, and you will also feel the urge to call your dentist for a cleaning. \u2022 Jack considers it quite an accomplishment to have lived to the ripe old age of 20, and tells 19 year-old Eliza that she\u2019s got a good ten or twenty years left to her. \u2022 European royal families were kind of gross. \u2022 I loved that Stephenson brings back his fictional country of Qwghlm, a godforsaken island under British rule where ice storms in June are common, and the English cut down all the trees. \u2022 Who knew that you could outwit pirates with math? \u2022 The scenes of trying to buy something are always hilarious because of all the haggling, not over the prices, but over what type of coins will be accepted because most are worthless due to the lack of reliable currency. \u2022 Why did I find it so funny that the English characters call syphilis the \u2018French Pox\u2019 and the French characters call it the \u2018English Pox\u2019? ...more 4.0/4.0 It's the Moby-Dick question. The plot's about an angry guy chasing a whale. There's not a lot of variation on this theme: he catches it, or he doesn't. Maybe he catches it and wishes that he didn't, maybe he doesn't and regrets that he failed. But this basic plot, a straightforward quest for revenge, is such thin gruel that you'd have to be on the lower end of the intellectual spectrum to fail to realize that the book's about something a little bit more than hunting a big fish. Even so, the 4.0/4.0 It's the Moby-Dick question. The plot's about an angry guy chasing a whale. There's not a lot of variation on this theme: he catches it, or he doesn't. Maybe he catches it and wishes that he didn't, maybe he doesn't and regrets that he failed. But this basic plot, a straightforward quest for revenge, is such thin gruel that you'd have to be on the lower end of the intellectual spectrum to fail to realize that the book's about something a little bit more than hunting a big fish. Even so, there's no guarantee that you're going to tolerate 20 pages about rope. At the end of the digression, you're either going to respond in one of two ways. You might be of the sort to go, \"Hmm, that was some fascinating rope discourse. I had no idea that rope could be used in such multifaceted ways, and having read that, I am now a different and slightly more rounded person.\" Then again, you could respond with a \"JESUS FUCKING CHRIST, enough with the stupid rope already! For fuck's sake, where's that son of a bitch whale? The white sea mammal is the TITLE of the book, and I'm reading about some shitty rope?! Christ, I need some vodka.\" You should know what sort of reader you are before picking this book up, because The Baroque Cycle is about 3,000 pages long, and Neal Stephenson digresses like an ADHD kid on speed. Melville's focus is a goddamn space laser in comparison. Quicksilver has economics, mining, mathematics, piracy, slavery, early Puritan philosophy and I forget what else. It is genius, pure and simple. This is one of the first great works of the 21st century, and I can't recommend it highly enough. But odds are great that you'll hate it mightily if your concern is the destination instead of how you get there. ...more I received an unexpected visit yesterday evening from a Mr. Nosnehpets, who told me he was a time-traveller and writer from the early 25th century. He had just published a historical novel, and wondered if I would do him the service of reviewing it. \"Why me?\" I asked, bemused. \"Well,\" replied my visitor with an insinuating smile, \"You appear in it more than once. You don't know it yet, but you're one of your period's major authors.\" I snatched the book, Mercury , from his hands, and it was even as h I received an unexpected visit yesterday evening from a Mr. Nosnehpets, who told me he was a time-traveller and writer from the early 25th century. He had just published a historical novel, and wondered if I would do him the service of reviewing it. \"Why me?\" I asked, bemused. \"Well,\" replied my visitor with an insinuating smile, \"You appear in it more than once. You don't know it yet, but you're one of your period's major authors.\" I snatched the book, Mercury , from his hands, and it was even as he said. There was hardly a chapter where I didn't turn up. Often I would speak for paragraphs at a time. \"You have cast me in an overly flattering light,\" I protested. \"I think you'll find that quotation actually comes from Oscar Wilde. And this one is due to Winston Churchill.\" \"Details, details,\" said Nosnehpets impatiently. \"Only the worst kind of wikipede is going to object. Try and see the big picture.\" \"I never came close to stopping the invasion of Iraq,\" I said faintly, as I continued to leaf through it. \"I went to a demonstration in Washington, that's all. And I never had a torrid affair with Catherine Zeta-Jones. I know we were both brought up in Wales, but...\" Nosnehpets sighed. \"I suppose you're going to tell me you didn't discover the Higgs particle either?\" he asked, with an unpleasantly ironic inflection. \"Even though you do admit that you were resident in Geneva in 2011, and you worked for years with Stephen Hawking?\" \"I live in Geneva,\" I agreed reluctantly. \"And in Cambridge, my office was on the other side of the road from the Department of Applied Mathematics and Mathematical Physics. But to jump from that to...\" \"You inspired them,\" snapped Nosnehpets. \"Stop nitpicking. You and Angelina were the real source of all the ideas. If I've exaggerated a little, it was only for dramatic effect.\" He looked hurriedly at his wrist. I suddenly noticed that what I had taken for a tattoo was actually a high-resolution display projected directly onto his skin. \"I'm sorry,\" he said. \"The portal will be closing in a minute. But please, before I leave, just answer me one question. Why did you do it? Why did you destroy the whole world of classical literature? And why that ridiculous pseudonym? I've tried my best to explain it, but, honestly, I still don't understand.\" I gaped at him. \"Whatever are you talking about?\" I asked. He was already starting to fade, but I could still hear his voice. \"Doctor Rayner,\" he whispered plaintively. \"Why, why, why did you write Twilight ?\" ...more I think it's official: I hate Neil Stephenson's books. I hated his so called cyberpunk classic Snow Crash --a fact that sets me apart from most of the nerdegalian-- and I really hated Quicksilver. Quicksilver is kind of hard to classify, if you in fact insist on classifying it. It's kind of historical fiction in that it's set in the 17th and 18th century and follows the rise of empiricism and science. It features real people from that period, like Isaac Newton, Gotfried Leibniz, Robert Boyle, Rob I think it's official: I hate Neil Stephenson's books. I hated his so called cyberpunk classic Snow Crash --a fact that sets me apart from most of the nerdegalian-- and I really hated Quicksilver. Quicksilver is kind of hard to classify, if you in fact insist on classifying it. It's kind of historical fiction in that it's set in the 17th and 18th century and follows the rise of empiricism and science. It features real people from that period, like Isaac Newton, Gotfried Leibniz, Robert Boyle, Robert Hook, King Louis XIV, and others. But the \"fiction\" part of \"historical fiction\" comes into play because the main characters --an aspiring natural philosopher (read: scientist) named Daniel Waterhouse, a former concubine turned finance tycoon named Eliza, and a charming vagabond named Jack Shaftoe-- never really existed and were fabricated for the sake of the book, which traces the activities of these three main characters as they live through the era. The main problem I have with Quicksilver was that it was largely plotless. I kept waiting for something to happen or some plot to coalesce out of the noise, but it didn't. The characters are really just there to give Stephenson an excuse to carry on about the development of science as a discipline, the ephemeral nature of money, and pirates --sometimes all three in the same passage. There's no narrative, just a seemingly endless burbling of scenes --the damn thing is nearly 1,000 pages long, and I READ the paper version of this one. I actually kind of liked the some of the parts with struggling scientist Daniel Waterhouse the best, because the history of science interests me, but even these moments of engagement were covered up by obscure details and diversions that were like overgrown plants in a sprawling garden. In fact, the whole book is bloated with details about experiments, geneologies, dissertations on stock markets, battles, family histories, and other verbal flotsam that it made it downright hard to read the book and impossible to enjoy. I get the impression that Stephenson gorged himself on research for the book, and then decided to use it all --every last syllable-- no matter what hellacious effect it has on the narrative or the goal of actually telling an interesting story. Quicksilver may be more entertaining than a high school textbook on the same topics, but only marginally. And the thing is that it's only the first THIRD of a trilogy, plus a tie-in to Stpehnons's book Cryptonomicon. What's worse is that I went ahead and picked up the other books in hardback, though I did so at a thrift store and only set myself back a total of like three bucks. I think I'm just gonna eat that cost and not even think about picking them up, given how much I disliked Quicksilver. Life is too short. ...more Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson is in some ways the strangest book I\u2019ve read this year. The most surprising aspect of the book is the fact that there is no plot. I\u2019ve read books that have started really slowly, and even books where the author largely ignores plot to focus on building the setting. This book, however, has no plot. For all intents and purposes, Quicksilver is The 17th Century: The Novel. In many ways it feels like the literary equivalent of an open world video game. You just go around Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson is in some ways the strangest book I\u2019ve read this year. The most surprising aspect of the book is the fact that there is no plot. I\u2019ve read books that have started really slowly, and even books where the author largely ignores plot to focus on building the setting. This book, however, has no plot. For all intents and purposes, Quicksilver is The 17th Century: The Novel. In many ways it feels like the literary equivalent of an open world video game. You just go around exploring with the characters, with no context or coherence whatsoever. Historical value is incredible. Certain individuals, like Isaac Newton, John Churchill and William of Orange, figure heavily. Tons of others make shorter appearances. As for location, the book takes you everywhere from the port of colonial Boston to the 1683 siege of Vienna. And almost surprisingly, it\u2019s charming. Almost a thousand pages of exploring a historical setting occasionally becomes an arduous task, but occasionally also becomes an exciting adventure filled with interesting details. The book is divided into three parts. Considering the ridiculous size of the whole volume, you might define the three as books in themselves. I definitely had to take a break and read other things between each of them. The first book focuses on Daniel Waterhouse, Puritan thinker and scientist and one-time member of the Royal Society. His part is split in two between a \u201cpresent day\u201d (1713) account of his leaving Massachusetts on a ship bound for England. This acts as a frame story for the second, which is a tale about his life and exploits with the Royal Society decades earlier. I strangely enjoyed the former more than the latter, even though it is moving so slowly that although the book starts out in Boston, the ship ends the part by sailing out of Massachusetts Bay. The second book focuses on Jack Shaftoe, vagabond turned mercenary, and Eliza, slave in the harem of the Ottoman sultan. From their meeting during the siege of Vienna, the book follows them on a journey together through the various principalities and kingdoms of Europe, filled with strange details and interesting histories. The third book pulls the first two together in something of a conclusion, leading up to the year 1688. The (historical) ending of the book was rather obvious if you are familiar with these times. Overall, it\u2019s a much more interesting book to read in than a book to read. While there is little sign of a story, and the fictional protagonists are not particularly outstanding, the setting is uniquely interesting and very well described. Despite being a work of historical fiction, the reader will inevitably learn a lot about 17th century history, in very enjoyable ways. ...more Well. Where to start with this... Ok. Let us first pretend that there are only two criteria to use when analysing works of fiction, (1) number of characters and (2) richness of plot. Now let us say we are drawing a chart, with quality 1 on the horizontal axis, and quality 2 on the vertical axis. Now we have a space into which we can slot a few books lying around the house. A Dickens novel goes into the upper right quadrant of the grid - many characters and rich plot to bind them together. A Samu Well. Where to start with this... Ok. Let us first pretend that there are only two criteria to use when analysing works of fiction, (1) number of characters and (2) richness of plot. Now let us say we are drawing a chart, with quality 1 on the horizontal axis, and quality 2 on the vertical axis. Now we have a space into which we can slot a few books lying around the house. A Dickens novel goes into the upper right quadrant of the grid - many characters and rich plot to bind them together. A Samuel Beckett play would be located upper left - just a few characters, but richly textured interactions between them. Dan Brown? Bottom left I am afraid (ok there are other views but this is me talking now...). And what's in the bottom right quadrant? The London telephone book takes pride of place, situated on the far right and exactly on the axis. And just to the north-west of it we find... Quicksilver . Why? Well let's see. Let me talk about size first. Quicksilver forms part of a sequence of three volumes, each weighing in at some 900 pages. Each volume consists of 3 reasonably stand-alone novels, so essentially we have a series of 9 texts, running to a combined 3000 pages. Indeed, the scope is even more expansive than this and we can think of these 9 novels as a prequel-series to Cryptonomicon , another 900-page tome in which Neal deals with events happening in WWII. So in terms of scope, Neal's work is biblical. So. What happens in the three novels bound up in Quicksilver ? The first novel is about a 17th Century natural philosopher, who is recalled to England to mitigate in the quarrel between Leibniz and Newton. The second novel is about the rise and fall of an Oriental slave girl as a merchant in Amsterdam. And the third novel is about the Leibniz/Newton quarrel again. You think that by distilling near 40,000 lines of text down to five I have done the plot injustice? Well I haven't. And this is precisely what bothers me about Neal's first three books. I don't know what they are. I do not think they are novels. But neither do I think they are narrative history, as, for example, Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall . So what are they? I think Neal's work is best described as a tableau of 17th Century life. Let me explain what I mean by this. Let us imagine a detailed, comprehensive historical monograph entitled 17th Century Europe in Politics, Science, Philosophy, and Religion . Our imagined work is a huge achievement in scholarship, its scope dwarving that of Gibbon's Rise and Fall . Now imagine this monograph as a pop-up book, delivering a three-dimensional model of intricate detail, showing all the facets of social life, all the complex interactions of historical persons, all the painful breakthroughs in nascent scientific thought. For the moment, this model is static and not animated. Now we create several figurines that we set into our pop-up model of 17th Century life. We breathe life into these figurines, and they start walking around, interacting now with this person, now with that one, creating an event here, and another one there. We observe what's going on and write it all up, bind it into one book and call it \"Quicksilver\". Excellent. We have successfully created a tour d'horizon through the world of the 17th Century. It does not matter that our characters do not have depth - they are only vehicles to transport our encyclopaedic knowledge. It does not matter that events do not create and develop a plot - we are not really telling a story. In the end, Neal hands the reader a kaleidoscope to observe the 17th Century. It shows the richness of life in glittering, but confusing colours, and in identifiable, but jumbled shapes. If there is an overall, guiding principle in the work, the disjointed mass of detail and isolated events makes it hard to discern. Quicksilver is to literature what music scores are to music, what a dictionary is to poetry, what a street map is to a metropolis. It shows the detail, but not the \"soul\". ...more Reading a huge 900+ page hardcover book with a seemingly open plot filled with pages of 17th century philosophical exposition and the requirement of reading two more books just like it may seem like a chore, but for me at least, Stephenson makes it fascinating. He reveals (or invents, at the very least) the inner workings of Isaac Newton, early Dutch stock market fraud, the invention of the calculus, and Turkish harems. This all serves as a backdrop for Daniel Waterhouse, Jack Shaftoe, and Eliza Reading a huge 900+ page hardcover book with a seemingly open plot filled with pages of 17th century philosophical exposition and the requirement of reading two more books just like it may seem like a chore, but for me at least, Stephenson makes it fascinating. He reveals (or invents, at the very least) the inner workings of Isaac Newton, early Dutch stock market fraud, the invention of the calculus, and Turkish harems. This all serves as a backdrop for Daniel Waterhouse, Jack Shaftoe, and Eliza of Qwghlm. Cryptonomicon readers will recognize these characters as the ancestors of the ones in that book, and indeed, other aspects of that novel make appearances. The plot is difficult to describe, as there doesn't seem to be a central conflict so much as a description of how the lives of each of these characters progress. As dull as that sounds, these people live extraordinarily interesting lives, and anyone interested in science or philosophy will be entertained by various tidbits Stephenson throws our way. This book isn't really the first in a trilogy as it is the first part of a really fucking huge book. (Technically, it's the first 3 books in a series of 8.) As such, you will be rewarded if you manage to make it to the second volume, where the real payoff for these characters is. Stephenson doesn't have a poetic way with words; rather, his strength lies in his marvelous ability to explain just about any concept. He also remains a master of the alternating academic/punk style that made Snow Crash such a popular book. ...more The first third of the book was generally plodding and lacking in any interesting protagonists (and no, I don't care that the oh-so-clever-writer added in as many famous characters as he could think of, they were still generally annoying). The second third showed much more promise, and was actually really fun, until the very end when everything got awful. Not like The-Empire-Strikes-Back-second-act-as-many-bad-things-happen-as-possible awful, though I think that's what the author was aiming for. The first third of the book was generally plodding and lacking in any interesting protagonists (and no, I don't care that the oh-so-clever-writer added in as many famous characters as he could think of, they were still generally annoying). The second third showed much more promise, and was actually really fun, until the very end when everything got awful. Not like The-Empire-Strikes-Back-second-act-as-many-bad-things-happen-as-possible awful, though I think that's what the author was aiming for. Just unneccesary and silly and revolting. Based on that, a quick thumbing of the final third, and the pervasively self-conscious and occasionally completely-annoying prose, I'm done with this one. It had high points. The descriptions of some of the experiments in the first section. The soon-to-be insane Vagabond King. There was even an infrequent well-written paragraph. It appears there is actually quite a lot of story material for a really good book here, but this redition of the plot has abused my trust for far too long. One last thing. The only \"real\" female character in the novel is badly written. I mean, it's not like his male characters beyond Jack are well-thought out and consistently imagined. But Eliza is a particularly poorly developed character- confusing and often contradictery, with shifting morals and no real reason behind many of her actions. I don't know if this is one of those \"well aren't women just like that, guffaw\" things or simply another literary over-extension on the author's part. I do know it was aggrivating, though. ...more Reading this book was kind of like... spending an afternoon on a long walk through the countryside, with a kindly but eccentric uncle, who happens to be a brilliant historian. I could listen to his rambling anecdotes for hours... except at some point I realised that we'd been walking for so long... hypnotised by his voice... that I had grown several inches of beard... It's a big book, but it's utterly fascinating and I loved it. I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't Reading this book was kind of like... spending an afternoon on a long walk through the countryside, with a kindly but eccentric uncle, who happens to be a brilliant historian. I could listen to his rambling anecdotes for hours... except at some point I realised that we'd been walking for so long... hypnotised by his voice... that I had grown several inches of beard... It's a big book, but it's utterly fascinating and I loved it. I have 40+ books sitting on my 'review-soon' shelf that I just don't have time to write proper reviews for, so I'm going to bash out as many of these mini-reviews as I can before Christmas :-) After this I read: Boneshaker ...more it took me about a year to get through this one. somewhat worth it, and i will get around to the second and third books of this gargantuan trilogy eventually. i learned a lot about the philosopher-scientists and byzantine politics and what it actually was like to live in the tumultuous times depicted...and didn't learn a whole lot about the inner life of a couple of the central characters. but there are dozens and dozens of truly fascinating and wonderfully written passages depicting all sorts o it took me about a year to get through this one. somewhat worth it, and i will get around to the second and third books of this gargantuan trilogy eventually. i learned a lot about the philosopher-scientists and byzantine politics and what it actually was like to live in the tumultuous times depicted...and didn't learn a whole lot about the inner life of a couple of the central characters. but there are dozens and dozens of truly fascinating and wonderfully written passages depicting all sorts of dramatic and at-times morbid events - more than enough to make up for the relentless and dry detailing of every frickin' scientific, economic or philosophic theory ever contemplated. ...more This was the book that knocked Neal Stephenson off of my \"buy on sight\" list. Too long, nothing happening, the first of three dauntingly large volumes. That about sums it up. Nije ni \u010dudo da mi je trebalo tjedan dana za knjigu kad je ona sama trilogija. Upravo je nevjerojatna koli\u010dina istra\u017eivanja koju je autor proveo da bi oov napisao. likovi, scenografija, odje\u0107a, maniri, sve je detaljno do u picabocu. Situacije teku, izmjenjuju se, i knjiga skoro da nema dosadnog dijela. Kraljevi, prirodni filozofi, stvarni i izmi\u0161ljeni likovi izmjenjuju se iz stranice u stranicu upadaju iz situacije u sitaciju. 4.75 a sad mi treba neka nefikcija da malo isperem mozak prije idu\u0107eg Nije ni \u010dudo da mi je trebalo tjedan dana za knjigu kad je ona sama trilogija. Upravo je nevjerojatna koli\u010dina istra\u017eivanja koju je autor proveo da bi oov napisao. likovi, scenografija, odje\u0107a, maniri, sve je detaljno do u picabocu. Situacije teku, izmjenjuju se, i knjiga skoro da nema dosadnog dijela. Kraljevi, prirodni filozofi, stvarni i izmi\u0161ljeni likovi izmjenjuju se iz stranice u stranicu upadaju iz situacije u sitaciju. 4.75 a sad mi treba neka nefikcija da malo isperem mozak prije idu\u0107eg nastavka. ...more Stephenson deserves an editor that will tell him to write less. The man prodigiously describes \"cool\" \"fun\" \"interesting\" events with such detail and precision that it usually loses its narrative flow. The guy has a command of the english language and is certainly fascinated by late 17th century and early 18th century goings-on that this feels like a historical narrative rather than historical fiction, yet the whole book feels like it was written in computer code; it is an odd stylistic quirk of Stephenson deserves an editor that will tell him to write less. The man prodigiously describes \"cool\" \"fun\" \"interesting\" events with such detail and precision that it usually loses its narrative flow. The guy has a command of the english language and is certainly fascinated by late 17th century and early 18th century goings-on that this feels like a historical narrative rather than historical fiction, yet the whole book feels like it was written in computer code; it is an odd stylistic quirk of his that I've noticed in his past books, but does not really fit in this book. The most cool thing about this is that he wrote the whole book (and the next two in the trilogy - nearly three thousand full pages of book) with a fountain pen on cotton paper. Used blotting paper and everything. Don't get into this series unless you read quickly, REALLY like his other stuff, or are unduly fascinated with the Baroque era. I'm enjoying it, but its detractions weigh it down like a sea anchor over the course of three books. ...more (This is a review of the whole Baroque Cycle.) The saga ranges over the years 1640-1714 (roughly), following three principal characters: Daniel Waterhouse, a British natural philosopher and non-conformist; Eliza, a woman kidnapped from a remote British isle and abducted into the seraglio, who is later rescued and who subsequently makes her way into the court of Versailles and the world of high finance; and Half-Cocked Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds, adventurer, galley slave, pirate, and symp (This is a review of the whole Baroque Cycle.) The saga ranges over the years 1640-1714 (roughly), following three principal characters: Daniel Waterhouse, a British natural philosopher and non-conformist; Eliza, a woman kidnapped from a remote British isle and abducted into the seraglio, who is later rescued and who subsequently makes her way into the court of Versailles and the world of high finance; and Half-Cocked Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds, adventurer, galley slave, pirate, and sympathetic everyman who will out-connive everyone unless the Imp of the Perverse compels him toward actions uncommonly glorious. Along the way we meet Newton, Leibniz, Hooke, Wren, Boyle, Locke, Peter the Great, royals of Europe, harpoon-chucking Russians, insidious Jesuits, etc., etc. and are led on great many an escapade in which, as the phrase goes, hilarity ensues. In some interview Stephenson defines science fiction as fiction that takes ideas seriously, and by that measure this is major league science fiction. There are no robots, cyborgs, or time travel, but we do encounter the beginnings of modern science (promiscuous with alchemy), the transmutation of rare earth metals into coins, credit, and finance, the operations of the British Mint and Royal Society, the various sultanates of Asia, the global slave trade, the manufacturing of watered steel, cryptography, the logistical difficulties of sailing and of naval warfare, the beginnings of steam engines, and the lived experience of London\u2019s sewer problems, with lots of clanging swordplay along the way. None of these are merely glimpsed, but each is explored in such depth as to prompt the reader to wonder who the hell this Neal Stephenson person is and how many heads he might possess. For a guy who, as he says, gets paid to sit on his butt and make stuff up, the achievement of his series is jaw-dropping, and it is a ripping good yarn to boot, all 916 + 815 + 886 pages of it. ...more A long, meandering, Europe-trotting historical which alternates stretches of ponderous natural philosophy with stretches of hilarious piratical shenanigans, to somewhat dubious effect. I enjoyed this, the way you enjoy a book that you read in 100 page chunks over the span of a year, and it's worth noting that I could do that since there's very little throughline. But the thing is. The thing is, Stephenson made a conscious choice to mix his oodles of historical research with a modern prose sensibi A long, meandering, Europe-trotting historical which alternates stretches of ponderous natural philosophy with stretches of hilarious piratical shenanigans, to somewhat dubious effect. I enjoyed this, the way you enjoy a book that you read in 100 page chunks over the span of a year, and it's worth noting that I could do that since there's very little throughline. But the thing is. The thing is, Stephenson made a conscious choice to mix his oodles of historical research with a modern prose sensibility. Which is fine, since it's not like the novel as we understand it \u2013 and as Stephenson writes it \u2013 was actually invented yet when this book is set. But his particular modern prose sensibility is basically a transcription of the stylings of an overeducated hipster douche kicking back in a hipster douche bar, telling his hipster douche friends about that time he got lost on vacation and nearly died of malaria, but the entire point of the story is to be arch and ironic and detached about the whole thing, because let's be honest, nothing bad could truly ever happen to this hipster douche, that just isn't how the world works and he knows it. I mean, he's a funny dude! He tells a great story! But there's a very fine line. Basically, somewhere around page 700, right about where a couple of characters were observing a rape and contemplating their imminent enslavement and death, and all they did was make arch, detached, hipster douche comments to each other about it, just as every other character had done on every other occasion from the wrenching to the banal to the sublime, right about then was when I thought oh come on, a single moment of genuineness wouldn't kill you . Except this is Stephenson, so actually . . . it might. ...more I loved Stephenson's \"Snow Crash\". Really liked \"Cryptonomicon\". But, this novel was terribly boring. It is divided into three books. Book 1 follows the scientist Dan Waterhouse. Book 2 followed Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds. Book 3 sees Eliza, a former slave girl, caught up in a spy ring between the French, English & Dutch governments. Sounds good, but it isn't. The writing is too long, and too detailed to remain focused on what should be important to the story...the story. I found my I loved Stephenson's \"Snow Crash\". Really liked \"Cryptonomicon\". But, this novel was terribly boring. It is divided into three books. Book 1 follows the scientist Dan Waterhouse. Book 2 followed Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds. Book 3 sees Eliza, a former slave girl, caught up in a spy ring between the French, English & Dutch governments. Sounds good, but it isn't. The writing is too long, and too detailed to remain focused on what should be important to the story...the story. I found myself skipping paragraphs of setting and science-speak to find the plot of the novel, but to no avail. Oh, there are moments of real conflict and intrigue, but they are few and far between. I know their are two more books which will tie up loose ends, (and there are many) but I don't think I will waste my time wading through another 1800 pages (900 per book) to learn...nothing ...more So many people have already reviewed this book--so instead of a comprehensive review, I will only mention one of many truly memorable scenes. In a meeting of the Royal Society in London, various natural philosophers report on their recent findings, inventions and discoveries. The juxtaposition of banal reports with momentous discoveries is absolutely hilarious. I won't try to paraphrase it--the scene is lengthy--but this section is worth reading by any modern-day scientist. The point is that at So many people have already reviewed this book--so instead of a comprehensive review, I will only mention one of many truly memorable scenes. In a meeting of the Royal Society in London, various natural philosophers report on their recent findings, inventions and discoveries. The juxtaposition of banal reports with momentous discoveries is absolutely hilarious. I won't try to paraphrase it--the scene is lengthy--but this section is worth reading by any modern-day scientist. The point is that at the time of discovery, its true importance is not known, or even guessed at. It's only after time has passed that we learn whether a discovery is trivial or important. ...more Quicksilver is an interesting book-especially since you can be discussing two different books. Quicksilver is the first installment of Neal Stephenson\u2019s Baroque cycle. It is a political and scientific monster delving into the 17th and 18th century. The first thing you need to know is that Quicksilver:Volume One is a combination of Quicksilver:Book 1, King of the Vagabonds: Book 2, and Odalesque: Book 3. If you purchase Quicksilver Volume 1 do not purchase the Books that are available in a solita Quicksilver is an interesting book-especially since you can be discussing two different books. Quicksilver is the first installment of Neal Stephenson\u2019s Baroque cycle. It is a political and scientific monster delving into the 17th and 18th century. The first thing you need to know is that Quicksilver:Volume One is a combination of Quicksilver:Book 1, King of the Vagabonds: Book 2, and Odalesque: Book 3. If you purchase Quicksilver Volume 1 do not purchase the Books that are available in a solitary format. You are not getting anything new. It is a marketing package to make the series look less intimidating. You can purchase the books in whatever format is more appealing to your reading style. My one comment is that if you choose to read Quicksilver: Book 1 rather than Volume 1 you may not be as impressed. It explores of the story of Daniel Waterhouse the friend and colleague of Isaac Newton. He is a Royal Society member in the English scientific community but ends up playing a much more political role. The scientific details are rich. Many have found them excessive. I enjoyed them but the first time I read this it was as the volume and not the book and including the stories of Half-cocked Jack and Eliza helps to make Volume holistic. I think if I had read book one initially I am not sure I would have continued. My personal recommendation, if you enjoy large dense books, read the books in the three volumes rather than the 8 book format. Daniel Waterhouse is a friend and colleague of Isaac Newton. He comes from a deeply religious and puritan background. His father was the infamous Drake and both paves a way for his career in Natural Philosophy as well as is a challenge. Daniel and Isaac meet in Oxford and room together. Daniel soon learns he can learn more from Isaac\u2019s genius than what he can learn in class. The price for this is keeping Newton fed, making sure he sleeps, and taking the brunt of his moods and temper. Daniel is perhaps the only person that Isaac trusts and puts Daniel in the position of caretaker and social diplomat for Newton so the world can see his genius. Nothing would be published of Newton\u2019s if it weren\u2019t for Daniel because Newton. He does not produce his work for acclaim and most of his work isn\u2019t seen by anyone else. As a result, Waterhouse does not get to pursue his own scientific queries. Instead he becomes steeped in politics and an integral important figure in the Royal Society. This is what you learn in Quicksilver: Book 1. Quicksilver: Volume 1 goes on to explore the story of Jack Shaftoe, or Half-cocked Jack. This man is not a political giant but rather an intelligent street urchin grown into a man. He\u2019s not the best of men, but he is smart, crafty, and always seeking opportunity. Jack brings the action to this tale as his story becomes entwined with Daniel\u2019s as well as Eliza\u2019s. Eliza is rescued from a harem by Jack \u2013 not on purpose but their relationship is important. She is spy, financial market genius, and rescued white sex slave. If you stop at Book 1 you will miss so much. Carry on because as with all Stephenson\u2019s books it will all tie together in the end. Stephenson, prior to this series, was known for his science fiction, specifically, Snow Crash and Diamond Age. These are books I love. The Baroque Cycle is purely historical and while it discusses scientific material and how it shaped 17th and 18th century society this is a historical novel. The book provides a very different view of the scientific giants of this time frame compared to the version taught to you in school. Personal issues and mental illness are evident. Stephenson is known for his level of detail and research. In this series Stephenson is even more diligent than his previous works. Later in his career Stephenson will write Mongoloid and Anathem. I am not a fan of these particular books. I have learned several things in being a fan of his work. It is not all the same and if you like one of his books it is no guarantee you will like another. You need to pick the books of his that fit in the genres you like. I enjoy his science fiction and historical fiction. I have no love for his joint works with other authors. Many of his fans have learned to pay attention to these factors. Some say this series is where his work changed for them and they lost interest. I disagree think The Baroque Cycle is intelligent and I am currently on my second read of it. You must judge for yourself, but use some of the information I presented. Approach the work in the format that agrees best with your reading style and don\u2019t fall into the trap of purchasing a book you have already read if you purchased one of the volumes previously. I have layed out the process to reading this series below. THE BAROQUE CYCLE Volumes 1. Quicksilver: Volume 1 2. The Confusion: Volume 2 3. The System of The World: Volume 3 OR Books 1. Quicksilver: Book 1 2. King of the Vagabonds 3. Odalisque 4. Bonanza 5. The Juncto 6. Soloman\u2019s Gold 7. Currency 8. The System of The World: Book ...more I bought this book because it said on the cover that it was a \"New York Time Bestseller\". How can this be? The paperback version is 916 pages and I got to page eight hundred and sixty something and then couldn't take it anymore. It was one of the most boring books I've ever read in my entire life. There were only a couple interesting characters and of course they had the shortest sections in the book. I could saved myself the hassle and only read the 100 or so pages that were semi interesting. I I bought this book because it said on the cover that it was a \"New York Time Bestseller\". How can this be? The paperback version is 916 pages and I got to page eight hundred and sixty something and then couldn't take it anymore. It was one of the most boring books I've ever read in my entire life. There were only a couple interesting characters and of course they had the shortest sections in the book. I could saved myself the hassle and only read the 100 or so pages that were semi interesting. It was like a hugely boring history lesson (that isn't actually factual) that seemed to stretch on and on and on. I had to force myself to keep reading it and I wasn't even successful. I can't believe people read this book and then liked it enough to continue on to two (TWO!!) more books in the sereis. Also, why was this book in the science fiction section?!? ...more Neal Stephenson needs an editor. Also, it may be cute and even kind of interesting to write an historical fantasy novel using idioms and vernacular from the 20th century on purpose, but it just doesn't work for me. And yeah, ok we get it Neal, you're really clever and know a bunch of stuff...that doesn't mean you need to reference every bit of it you can stuff into the books you write. It's kind of dissapointing because the ideas and possibilities of where this book could have been going were reall Neal Stephenson needs an editor. Also, it may be cute and even kind of interesting to write an historical fantasy novel using idioms and vernacular from the 20th century on purpose, but it just doesn't work for me. And yeah, ok we get it Neal, you're really clever and know a bunch of stuff...that doesn't mean you need to reference every bit of it you can stuff into the books you write. It's kind of dissapointing because the ideas and possibilities of where this book could have been going were really interesting...Neal Stephenson just kept getting in the way. ...more What a mess! This volume commits several heinous sins; the Sin of Protagonist Switching occurs twice. The Sin of Rambling Aimlessly occurs through out. The Sin of Being Pointless might possibly be redeemed in the remaining volumes...but can I be bothered to read them? There are fun and exciting passages that account for the two star rating but they are islands floating on the structural swamp. One of the most elaborate, detailed and wonderful books I've ever read and re-reading it was pure pleasure. If you want to be inspired by the 17th century, fall in love mathematics and science, or bedazzled by the sheer complexity of a world then this is book for you. He may be over it by now (as I have not read any of his more recent work), but I\u2019m convinced that at the time he was writing Cryptonomicon and the Baroque Cycle (of which Quicksilver is the first volume), the first thing Neal Stephenson did every morning right after getting out of bed was to shamble into the bathroom and stand there for ten minutes, just staring bleary-eyed into mirror and bemoaning his fate that it was not Thomas Pynchon looking back at him. If with Cryptonomicon Stephenson trie He may be over it by now (as I have not read any of his more recent work), but I\u2019m convinced that at the time he was writing Cryptonomicon and the Baroque Cycle (of which Quicksilver is the first volume), the first thing Neal Stephenson did every morning right after getting out of bed was to shamble into the bathroom and stand there for ten minutes, just staring bleary-eyed into mirror and bemoaning his fate that it was not Thomas Pynchon looking back at him. If with Cryptonomicon Stephenson tried to write Gravity\u2019s Rainbow , then the Baroque Cycle is his attempt at authoring Mason & Dixon , an exploration of modern technology and the effect it has had on the 20th century followed by a sprawling, weird, detail-obsessed historical novel. Unfortunately, Neal Stephenson was not only too late in both cases, but is also not nearly the writer Pynchon is, and therefore ended up failing rather spectacularly, producing a series of novels that, in spite of their massive bulk, seems rather flat and shallow if held up against Pynchon. Admittedly, I am being somewhat unfair here \u2013 not every writer can be a Pynchon, and usually that is not something you\u2019d hold against anyone. It is just that Stephenson so clearly, desperately wants to be Pynchon, making it impossible to not judge him by that standard, a standard which he just cannot measure up to. I already disliked Cryptonomicon , but that was at least was somewhat entertaining; while Quicksilver , when I first read it (shortly after it was released) was just a terrible slog to get through. I did made it to the end somehow, but didn\u2019t touch another novel by Stephenson afterwards. But sometimes I do get those strange urges, and a few months back I started ogling the Baroque Cycle again. Whatever the reason, after some months of futile resistance the urge became irresistible, I got myself the e-book version of Stephenson\u2019s trilogy and started \u2013 not without some misgivings \u2013 digging into Quicksilver . And ended up surprised at how much I was enjoying it \u2013 so much so, in fact, that I read the whole of the Baroque Cycle , all almost 3000 pages of it in almost exactly a month. Which is not to say that I did not still have some problems with it. If one comes to this novel with Patrick O\u2019Brian\u2019s Aubrey-Maturin series fresh in one\u2019s mind it is almost painfully obvious to what degree Quicksilver fails as a straight historical novel. Not that I\u2019d have thought even for a moment that Stephenson attempted to write one, but his attempts at mimicking the Baroque writing style are quite grating after O\u2019Brian\u2019s full immersion in his chosen period (and don\u2019t even get me start on a comparison to Mason & Dixon ). Stephenson seems half-hearted by comparison, his occasional usage of old spellings seems arbitrary (for example he inexplicably keeps writing \u201croofs\u201d as \u201crooves\u201d but is perfectly happy to use a modern spelling for most words) and generally gives the impression of someone just wanting to show off (which I strongly suspect is the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for a lot of the extended, quite often tedious descriptions of all sorts of minutiae). But then, this is not really supposed to be a strictly historical novel \u2013 Stephenson liberally peppers his narrative with anachronisms, and the auctorial is distinctly contemporary and postmodern. Which has the rather unfortunate effect that the novel reads like it wasn\u2019t able to take itself seriously \u2013 on the one hand, it is a serious historical novel with a plethora of period detail, on the other it seems more preoccupied with finding precursors modern concerns like programming languages and arbitrary signifiers; on the one hand it seems to want to say something important, on the other it\u2019s just here to have some fun. Quicksilver is separated into three parts, each with a different protagonist, each of which seems to also work as some kind of allegory \u2013 Daniel Waterhouse who is the protagonist of the first book, is a Man of Science, Jack Shaftoe, protagonist of the second, is a rogue and classical picaro, and Eliza (not sure we ever learn her second name), protagonist of the third book and a genius of financial manipulation. Personally, I rather liked the first books but I suspect that was mostly because I already had an interest in the history of science of that period, but most readers (and that would include me) tend to prefer the second, because it is there that Stephenson changes from trying to write serious literature (which, seriously, he is just no good at) to spinning a yarn of colourful adventure (which, it turns out, he is really good at). \u201cKing of te Vagabonds,\u201d the Jack Shaftoe part of the novel is an inordinate amount of fun, taking our morally doubtful hero from Vienna to the Netherlands to Paris in a series of increasingly wild and improbable adventures in the true picaresque manner and lets the reader forget about the ponderous, slow-moving first part with several hundred pages of glorious entertainment. Unfortunately, Stephenson then goes and ruins it all (well, part of it, anyway) with the third part where things just fall apart \u2013 for some reason, he decided to not tell his tale straight any more but instead approaches all the important events in his narrative at an oblique angle, only telling of them indirectly and second-hand, which gets really annoying after a while and again slows the novel\u2019s speed down to a crawl. I\u2019m really not someone who scolds novel for being pretentious \u2013 usually, I find that it is just a convenient (and extremely flimsy) excuse for lazy readers to not have to read novels that are difficult or challenging in any way and which might possibly ask of them to think about what they are reading, or even only just pay attention to it. With Quicksilver , however, I think the shoe fits \u2013 this is a wonderful adventure novel (almost) ruined by its pretensions to be something more. Thankfully, Neal Stephenson seems to have realized where his true talents lie, and things improve steadily over the next two volumes. ...more This book is sort of like Woody Allen's \u201cZelig\u201d, if the movie had been a gigantic doorstop of a book, if it had been set mostly in Europe in the years 1650 \u2013 1713 instead of Great Depression-era America, and if it had had three Zeligs instead of one. OK, so, maybe they're not so similar, but still, like Zelig, the main characters flit from one great historical event to another, influential but unrecognized in life's rich pageant. The three Zelig-like characters are Daniel Waterhouse, Eliza, and This book is sort of like Woody Allen's \u201cZelig\u201d, if the movie had been a gigantic doorstop of a book, if it had been set mostly in Europe in the years 1650 \u2013 1713 instead of Great Depression-era America, and if it had had three Zeligs instead of one. OK, so, maybe they're not so similar, but still, like Zelig, the main characters flit from one great historical event to another, influential but unrecognized in life's rich pageant. The three Zelig-like characters are Daniel Waterhouse, Eliza, and Jack. An unscientific study of nearby reviews shows that Daniel Waterhouse is the favorite of the Goodreads demographic. I understand and agree. Daniel has the same appeal for the bookish as the title character in \u201cI, Claudius\u201d: a survivor, decent but not unbelievably so, smart but not overwhelming ambitious, well-meaning but occasionally clueless. He befriends Isaac Newton at school, gives New York its name, becomes an influential figure in Restoration England almost by accident. The other characters may seem less compelling by comparison because, sadly, fewer of us are exotic, seductive, impossibly beautiful, adventurous social climbers and successful derivatives traders (Eliza) or free-spirited, cowardly, romantic hobos, always up for a big caper (Jack). Anyway, it's a historical novel with an attitude, and if you like it, there are still 2,000 more pages to go to complete the trilogy! ...more I just finished reading this for the second time; I was loathe to dive into the Baroque Cycle again, because of the commitment involved: three volumes of nearly a thousand pages each, and you know how I feel about commitment. But man is it great. So funny and clever and I learn SO MUCH (though since I'm learning nearly all of it all over again, clearly I didn't retain much the first time around.) Uh, okay, quick synopsis? It takes place in the late seventeenth century, mostly in England, a bit in I just finished reading this for the second time; I was loathe to dive into the Baroque Cycle again, because of the commitment involved: three volumes of nearly a thousand pages each, and you know how I feel about commitment. But man is it great. So funny and clever and I learn SO MUCH (though since I'm learning nearly all of it all over again, clearly I didn't retain much the first time around.) Uh, okay, quick synopsis? It takes place in the late seventeenth century, mostly in England, a bit in Versailles, a bit more wandering around the rest of Europe. Isaac Newton is in it (he's kind of a religious asshole who is too concerned with alchemy) and so is Liebniz (whom I love oh so very much.) And Hooke is pretty boss too. And there are the made-up folks, like Daniel Waterhouse, who appears in one form or another in nearly every Stephenson book. Jack Shaftoe could be an irritating guy if he weren't clever, but he is, so he's not. And Eliza -- it's a shame Stephenson can't find room for more than one decent female character in any of his books, but if they're going to be Eliza, it's almost forgivable. Not necessarily recommended as your first Stephenson, but if you've already got your feet wet, by all means, jump in. And on to Volume 2! ...more I admit it. I have absolutely no desire to finish this book. I'm so very close to the end, but I stopped caring somewhere along the way. I really don't know what it is that keeps me from finishing it. Maybe it's because I only have about 120 pages left and I know that nothing's going to be resolved. Maybe it's because I've read 781 pages and have no idea what the heck is going on. Is there even a plot? Is this book about anything other than history? I can see why people do like it. In fact, I li I admit it. I have absolutely no desire to finish this book. I'm so very close to the end, but I stopped caring somewhere along the way. I really don't know what it is that keeps me from finishing it. Maybe it's because I only have about 120 pages left and I know that nothing's going to be resolved. Maybe it's because I've read 781 pages and have no idea what the heck is going on. Is there even a plot? Is this book about anything other than history? I can see why people do like it. In fact, I like it myself. I just can't bring myself to pick it up again. ...more I went on a long Neal Stephenson kick a while back: QUICKSILVER I finished reading Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson about a month ago. This book took me almost two months to finish reading because it is so freaking long and epic. I really love Neal Stephenson. I've also read Cryptonomicon and Snow Crash. I highly recommend reading Cryptonomicon before Quicksilver, because you get to have the pleasure of seeing the family names of characters that lived in the 20th century popping up in 17th century E I went on a long Neal Stephenson kick a while back: QUICKSILVER I finished reading Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson about a month ago. This book took me almost two months to finish reading because it is so freaking long and epic. I really love Neal Stephenson. I've also read Cryptonomicon and Snow Crash. I highly recommend reading Cryptonomicon before Quicksilver, because you get to have the pleasure of seeing the family names of characters that lived in the 20th century popping up in 17th century Europe. The book provides an intimate look into the life and times of England and the European continent during the 17th century, and of famous men such as Louis XIV and Isaac Newton. However, it is not a history book. It was an exciting read, giving the reader the feeling of being swept back in time and allowed to observe the details of life often left out of history, such as medical procedures (cutting for \"the stone\" performed by barbers, for instance), privies, whorehouses, etc. But it was Neal Stephenson's characters, as always, that made the book truly worth reading. Daniel Waterhouse, the main character, lives through some very exciting times in English history. Most famously, the Black Plague and the Great Fire. He also is acquainted with many famous men, such as Isaac Newton, the Royal Society, and even multiple British kings in succession. Through him we learn of how many aspects of science and the scientific process that we take for granted in modern times were discovered and/or invented. (gravity, for example, and calculus.) He is also raised as a Puritan, with a famously dissenting father who had his nose cut off as an example and believed the apocalypse would come in 1666 (as did most Puritans at the time). We also get to experience Trinity College at it's most decadent and depraved, with drunken noble sons stumbling about the campus, etc. One third of the way into the book, Stephenson introduces us to Jack Shaftoe (AKA \"Half-Cocked Jack\" due to a phallic injury, also AKA \"L'Emmerdeur\" hero of French vagabond tales), an English vagabond wandering around the European continent getting involved in wars, adventures, and business fiascos all over the place. He may be slightly insane (from the \"french pox\"), but he is wildly entertaining. As is the amazingly resourceful Eliza, whom Jack \"rescues\" from a Turkish harem during the siege of Vienna. Their story is one of travel, business exploits, attainment, and loss. I think this might have been my favorite part of the novel. The final third of the book goes back to Daniel in London during the overthrow of the monarchy. And, of course, the ending leaves you hanging and wanting to read the second book. But I think I'll have to muster my energy for another long read before I tackle it. I feel almost bad saying so, but I don't think Quicksilver is Stephenson's best work. I loved Cryptonomicon for it's smart, fresh approach to \"historical\" fiction, just as I enjoyed Snow Crash for it's witty, imaginitive picture of the urban future. But I really felt like the energy had drained out of his writing in this novel. It was still innovative, and smart, and witty...but it felt a little bogged down. Perhaps it was the language, being set in the 17th century, or perhaps it was all the ponderous (but necessary) back stories needed to explain historical events and wars, I'm not sure. But it did seem a little slow at times. Overall, however, this book was an entertaining read, though while I was reading it, I thought it would have been helpful to have some sort of resource that could tell me which characters and events were historical. The wikipedia article was pretty helpful. I didn't notice the \"cast\" list at the back until I was finished reading the book. This list tells which characters were real and which were fictional, and also their multiple names and titles. ...more July 2009 Ah, Quicksilver . Where to begin? 17th century Europe and England, war, rebellion, political intrigue, religious strife, treason, murder, betrayal, plague, executions, slavery, thievery, exploration, alchemy, wealth, fame, power, adventure, and calculus. Whew. It's a massive book (three books, actually; the first three of eight, collected in three volumes, hence the term \"Cycle\") and an ambitious project on Stephenson's part, but most of the time it just feels ridiculously bloated. Book July 2009 Ah, Quicksilver . Where to begin? 17th century Europe and England, war, rebellion, political intrigue, religious strife, treason, murder, betrayal, plague, executions, slavery, thievery, exploration, alchemy, wealth, fame, power, adventure, and calculus. Whew. It's a massive book (three books, actually; the first three of eight, collected in three volumes, hence the term \"Cycle\") and an ambitious project on Stephenson's part, but most of the time it just feels ridiculously bloated. Book I of Quicksilver gives us a 17th century Who's Who among natural philosophers and alchemists--which, when told in a handful of chapters in Bill Bryson's A Short History of Nearly Everything , is fascinating and fun; here, the story feels bogged down with the Royal Society Rogues' Gallery as viewed by Daniel Waterhouse. Book II gives us the adventures of \"Half-Cocked\" Jack Shaftoe, King of the Vagabonds (why, we\u2019re not quite told) and Eliza, ex-harem slave-turned-stock market prodigy, and everyone interacts a bit in Book III, where various stuff happens. Although Stephenson doesn't like the t-word, Quicksilver certainly feels like the first book in a trilogy: introduce the world and the main players, give them a few small adventures, set up the rest of the cycle, etc. Interesting, sure, but only rarely and in small doses. Screams for an editor. And it bothers me that, after 900 pages, I still feel completely indifferent about this book. If you invest that kind of time and patience in a doorstopper, there should be some reward ( The Stand and Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell were certainly worth it) or sense of accomplishment (you can't finish Les Miserables and not feel like a champion). Here, not so much. Daniel rarely does more than provide a street-level view into the various historical events happening in London at the time, Jack\u2019s adventures have style but no substance, and Eliza is our window into Neal\u2019s musings about money and cryptology, but little more. It would be interesting in smaller doses and in a shorter book, but here, I didn\u2019t really care. So why do I want to read the next one? ...more Dear Mr. Stephenson, I understand that when I pick up one of your voluminous novels, I am agreeing to travel through the written word on whatever meandering path you choose, with stops for quirky lectures from unlikely characters, descriptions of the proper way to eat Cap'n Crunch, or whatever else pops into your brain as you spin your tale. This book was no different, with particularly delightful episodes regarding Vagabond Jack Shaftoe who comes out sort of unscathed through most of his adventu Dear Mr. Stephenson, I understand that when I pick up one of your voluminous novels, I am agreeing to travel through the written word on whatever meandering path you choose, with stops for quirky lectures from unlikely characters, descriptions of the proper way to eat Cap'n Crunch, or whatever else pops into your brain as you spin your tale. This book was no different, with particularly delightful episodes regarding Vagabond Jack Shaftoe who comes out sort of unscathed through most of his adventures, and Elizabeth's descriptions of kidnapping and court life and espionage and royal dunces, and the peculiar take on Isaac Newton and London politics and Boston and pirating and, um, a whole lot more. But I'm feeling a bit daunted. I started this book back in May and while other books crept in along the way, I worked hard at this one's 900 pages, great as they were. I gaze upon volumes 2 and 3 in the trilogy, waiting on my shelf, and find myself digging deep for the courage to begin. I will. I really can't wait. But I think I need a break with something quicker, say, Volume 2 of Mark Twain's autobiography, first. ...more", "Title": "Quicksilver"},
