{"Comments": "Finally,<---M> after seven books</---M>, Stephanie has fornicated with Batman, aka, Ranger. Major kudos go to <---A>Janet Evanovich</---A> for making my stomach flip without a whole lot of information. I've never even seen this Ranger, or <---C>Joe Morelli</---C> for that matter, and yet all I have to do is read a line and somehow they can send heat straight to my doodah, Jesus. I have no doubt that men everywhere would give their right arm for such a skill. The plots remain rather over the top, but I have come to find the ridiculous Finally, after seven books, Stephanie has fornicated with Batman, aka, Ranger. Major kudos go to Janet Evanovich for making my stomach flip without a whole lot of information. I've never even seen this Ranger, or Joe Morelli for that matter, and yet all I have to do is read a line and somehow they can send heat straight to my doodah, Jesus. I have no doubt that men everywhere would give their right arm for such a skill. The plots remain rather over the top, but I have come to find the ridiculousness endearing. And finally, my fear of geese has been validated. I have long since suspected that they were in fact the spawn of satan and my suspicions have been confirmed. Thank you Janet! As per usual, hi-lights include: 1.<---F> Stephanie's mother kills a rabbit 2</---F>. Andy Bender alludes capture, and heists Stephanie's car. 3. Fornication with Batman 4. When geese attack, how Stephanie discovered the power of the Cracker Jack ...more This one was a little bit of a let-down after the previous books. I mean, yeah, there were plenty of cars getting blown-up and a killer in a rabbit suit chasing her, but there was also a kind of sad undertone because of the break-up. I don't want sad and serious in these books! I read them to get away from sad and serious stuff. I'm a sad & serious avoider. It's one of my life-goals. Stephanie is also not really improving as a bounty hunter. She is afraid of her gun, can never get her pepper This one was a little bit of a let-down after the previous books. I mean, yeah, there were plenty of cars getting blown-up and a killer in a rabbit suit chasing her, but there was also a kind of sad undertone because of the break-up. I don't want sad and serious in these books! I read them to get away from sad and serious stuff. I'm a sad & serious avoider. It's one of my life-goals. Stephanie is also not really improving as a bounty hunter. She is afraid of her gun, can never get her pepper spray out of her purse in time, and her stun gun is on the fritz. She also loses more handcuffs than a dom with erectile dysfunction. And, just like that dom, she is constantly unable to finish the job. It's kind of pathetic. The GOOD news in this book is that she finally gets down and dirty with Ranger. It's about freaking time! A guy like that will definitely finish the job - a couple of times. I want to visit the bat cave! ...more Stephanie has a slightly different challenge to face in this instalment - she's been asked to track down a missing young girl on behalf of her very worried grandmother. Unfortunately the search puts her in the sights of Eddie Abruzzi, a nasty piece of work who is in business with the child's father. As the danger ratchets up a notch and Morelli continues to keep his distance after their latest fallout it's up to Ranger to come to Stephanie's aid when she needs him the most. This series is just so Stephanie has a slightly different challenge to face in this instalment - she's been asked to track down a missing young girl on behalf of her very worried grandmother. Unfortunately the search puts her in the sights of Eddie Abruzzi, a nasty piece of work who is in business with the child's father. As the danger ratchets up a notch and Morelli continues to keep his distance after their latest fallout it's up to Ranger to come to Stephanie's aid when she needs him the most. This series is just so much fun to read, I don't care that Stephanie is the world's worst bounty hunter who can't hold onto a pair of handcuffs for more than five minutes and who manages to get her cars blown up on a pretty much daily basis. Let's face it the worse Stephanie is the more excuses she has to call Ranger or Morelli in for help and that's never going to be a bad thing in my eyes! These stories aren't meant to be taken too seriously but they are fantastic light entertainment. I pick up these books when I want something that is going to put a smile on my face, they never fail to make me laugh out loud and I just love Stephanie and the crazy people she surrounds herself with. <+++>Hard Eight</+++> sees her love life get even more complicated which makes for brilliant reading. Things are in the off-again position with Morelli but that just allows Ranger to finally make his move and bow chicka wow wow has that been a long time coming (<---B>but well worth the wait!</---B>). I can't wait to continue my reread of this series and I'm looking forward to finally finding out who she chooses in the long run. ...more Some dastardly doer named Eddie Abruzzi finally forces Stephanie Plum to have sex with Ranger. There, I\u2019ve said it. Not really a spoiler. If you have been reading this series, you knew it was going to happen eventually. I have to hand it to Janet Evanovich\u2014she really knows how to build her wispy writing to a satisfying climax. (Even though this particular orgasm took seven novels to achieve.) Part of the foreplay involves a new character with the great last name of Kloughn (pronounced \u2018clown\u2019) a Some dastardly doer named Eddie Abruzzi finally forces Stephanie Plum to have sex with Ranger. There, I\u2019ve said it. Not really a spoiler. If you have been reading this series, you knew it was going to happen eventually. I have to hand it to Janet Evanovich\u2014she really knows how to build her wispy writing to a satisfying climax. (Even though this particular orgasm took seven novels to achieve.) Part of the foreplay involves a new character with the great last name of Kloughn (pronounced \u2018clown\u2019) and as much as I hate to admit it\u2014he made me laugh out loud. Both things I hate: laughing out loud, and admitting I\u2019m reading books geared towards middle aged women and post-pubescent teenage girls. Come on, we all have guilty pleasures . . . Jesus, some people even collect stamps! I mean, really! For movies I like anything with flesh-eating Zombies (as opposed to Cheerios eating Zombies); for musical guilty please it would be Liberace\u2019s Greatest Hits (not really, you have permission to feed me to the nearest flesh eating Zombie if that ever happens); for books it would be the Time Life Series on Do-It-Yourself Brain Surgery and Janet Evanovich (watch out Stephanie Meyers, your in my sights for a book burning party). Once again, the plot is superfluous to the madcap characters. Grandma, Morelli, Lula and Bob the Dog all take bows (or bow-wows in some instances). Maybe my electrolytes have leveled off but I actually think the writing is getting better\u2014at least in this installment. Aw hell, Evanovich probably has a whole studio of writers like on SNL, just cranking them out. That\u2019s okay, they are fun and a harmless diversion\u2014as protected in the Constitution\u2014the Right to Entertainment. (Or is that the Bill of Rights? Or the Declaration of Independence? I get them all mixed up. Oh, well . . . as long as we still have free HBO at the Motels along I-40, all is right with the world.) ...more I am giving this book 5 Stars solely on the grounds that it was beyond hilarious. Never in my life I have read anything so ridiculously funny! Every character, every situation was so full of rollicking stupidity that it made me burst out laughing. The mystery in this book was okay, I didn't really care much about it because in this installment we had an abundance of entertaining side kicks. Albert Klough's description of looking like a Pillsbury Doughboy made me laugh lout loud EVERY TIME! xD And I am giving this book 5 Stars solely on the grounds that it was beyond hilarious. Never in my life I have read anything so ridiculously funny! Every character, every situation was so full of rollicking stupidity that it made me burst out laughing. The mystery in this book was okay, I didn't really care much about it because in this installment we had an abundance of entertaining side kicks. Albert Klough's description of looking like a Pillsbury Doughboy made me laugh lout loud EVERY TIME! xD And the scene where he got stuck in a dryer is the epicest thing I've ever read, I laughed so much that my sides hurt. Sadly, Grandma Mazur didn't have much role in this one and neither did Morelli but Stephanie's \"fornication with the Batman\" a.k.a Ranger made up for it. Ranger. That guy is so hot his presence makes me want to fan myself. The mystery surrounding his character makes his character even hotter. Plus, there was THE Rabbit. And Stephanie's mom. And Valerie. Oh God, this book is the most humorous thing EVER. <+++>Hard Eight</+++> was just priceless but still Hot Six remains the best and my favorite book in the series so far. ...more Why-oh-why didn't Janet go into a little more detail about Steph's 'escapade' with Ranger? Darnit, I wanted more info than that! LOL! That's okay. He's still just as hot as ever. I enjoyed the story, but it still seems strange, the situation between Joe and Steph. Why is it that he can't accept wholely who Steph is and what she does for a living? Would he feel the same if she was a cop? If you ask me, the attitude is a selfish one, and he's really starting to piss me off. Wonder what the next st Why-oh-why didn't Janet go into a little more detail about Steph's 'escapade' with Ranger? Darnit, I wanted more info than that! LOL! That's okay. He's still just as hot as ever. I enjoyed the story, but it still seems strange, the situation between Joe and Steph. Why is it that he can't accept wholely who Steph is and what she does for a living? Would he feel the same if she was a cop? If you ask me, the attitude is a selfish one, and he's really starting to piss me off. Wonder what the next story will bring. I adore this series, and thank everyone who turned me on to it. THANK YOU!!! ...more Lately, I\u2019ve been spending a lot of time rolling on the ground with men who think a stiffy represents personal growth. The rolling around has nothing to do with my sex life. The rolling around is what happens when a bust goes crapola and there\u2019s a last ditch effort to hog-tie a big, dumb bad guy possessing a congenitally defective frontal lobe. Stephanie and Lula make a wonderful team. They met in book one. Stephanie was just beginning her journey as a bounty hunter and Lula was still working th Lately, I\u2019ve been spending a lot of time rolling on the ground with men who think a stiffy represents personal growth. The rolling around has nothing to do with my sex life. The rolling around is what happens when a bust goes crapola and there\u2019s a last ditch effort to hog-tie a big, dumb bad guy possessing a congenitally defective frontal lobe. Stephanie and Lula make a wonderful team. They met in book one. Stephanie was just beginning her journey as a bounty hunter and Lula was still working the street corners as a \u2018ho. Stephanie will usually deal with fear in her usual manner; doughnuts, fried crispy chicken or frozen cookie dough. This makes Lula the perfect teammate. She can eat the store and still have the smiling energy to go shopping. In the first book of this series, One for the Money, both Stephanie and Lula suffer an insane amount of fear and physically traumatic and unimaginably paralyzing defeat. Bad guy, Benito, was a sexual sadist. A sociopath with limitless amount of perseverance when it comes to stalking and hunting down the women he chooses to play with. After book One for the Money, everything has been more or less a giggling ride with Lula and Stephanie. In this book, Hard Eight, memories crash through them, and they are reminded of the terrible things they survived. \u201cI know who you are, too. You\u2019re one of Benito\u2019s whores. How did it feel to spend time with Benito? Did you enjoy it? Did you feel privileged? Did you learn anything?\u201d \u201cI don\u2019t feel so good,\u201d Lula said. And she fainted dead away, crashing into Kloughn, taking him down with her. Bad guy and super asshole, Abruzzi shows his ugly face in Hard Eight. One of the reasons book one really got to me, was reading about what Stephanie and Lula endured. To be utterly brutalized, raped and sliced apart and left for dead, this book really has its moments that I do not enjoy. Unfortunately, sometimes when you want the laughter, you must be reminded of the bad times as well. Perhaps that is what makes you appreciate the funny moments even more. Stephanie suffers sadistic pranks in this book by a man who has only begun to toy with her. Of course, you have your usual assholes in Evanovich\u2019s books, but this one is a little different. The madness that drives Abruzzi is throat clenching and unbearable. I turned my head to look, and a spider the size of a dinner plate jumped at me. \u201cEeeeyow! Holy shit! HOLY SHIT!\u201d I sideswiped a parked car, took the curb, and came to a stop on a patch of lawn. From being attacked by killer rabbits, to finding themselves in a babysitting situation, Lula never disappoints. \u201cListen to me, you punk-ass loser, you don\u2019t want to call me no Aunt Jemima or I\u2019m gonna give you Aunt Jemima in the face with this fry pan. Only thing stopping me is I don\u2019t want to k-i-l-l you in front of the b-r-a-t-s.\u201d Dealing with Morelli during an off on-again-off-again relationship, and Ranger\u2019s smooth sexy yumminess, Stephanie is faced with a dilemma. On one had, Morelli was a man she loved but whom didn\u2019t want to marry her. The feeling was mutual. And on the other hand, Ranger pushes himself against her body and life, leaving her toes tingling and thoughts rumbling through erotic dreams and nipple-teasing hard ons. One of the coolest pages in this book explains the rules of Stephanie\u2019s house. I have similar rules, they just aren\u2019t followed. I hung up and retreated to the living room. If you sat in front of the television in my parents\u2019 house, you weren\u2019t expected to talk. Even if asked a direct question, the viewer had the discretion of feigning hearing loss. Those were the rules. Hah! I love it. This book slams you through the past and really leaves your chest hurting, a weight that seems to crush down on you. There are certain things an individual reader will react to. I don\u2019t like to read about women being brutalized. It upsets me. I recommend this book to all mature adults. Moderate violence and mild to moderate sexual content. (Yay! You\u2019ll see .. woo hoo!) Sensitive content and some morally suggestive moments, but other than that, this book has my two thumbs up! Now it\u2019s time for To the Nines! Happy reading! ...more Hard Eight is a fantastic Plum novel and is one of my favorites :) This story is about Stephanie helping out her parent's neighbor. The neighbor's granddaughter Evelyn and great granddaughter Annie have disappeared so Stephanie agrees to help find them. In the process of locating Evelyn and Annie, Stephanie crosses paths with a dangerous individual by the name of Eddie Abruzzi. Eddie threatens Stephanie to try and get her to stop looking for Evelyn and Annie. One of my favorite parts of this boo Hard Eight is a fantastic Plum novel and is one of my favorites :) This story is about Stephanie helping out her parent's neighbor. The neighbor's granddaughter Evelyn and great granddaughter Annie have disappeared so Stephanie agrees to help find them. In the process of locating Evelyn and Annie, Stephanie crosses paths with a dangerous individual by the name of Eddie Abruzzi. Eddie threatens Stephanie to try and get her to stop looking for Evelyn and Annie. One of my favorite parts of this book is the fact that Steph and Ranger finally hook up! I am a huge babe fan and hope that Steph and Ranger get a HEA. Ranger and Steph have a lot of chemistry together and I think that Ranger is more capable of helping her grow as an individual. In this book, you see just how far Ranger is willing to go to protect Steph. Overall I would give this book 5 stars for the plot, humor, and the fact that Ranger and Steph's relationship grows! ...more In this book, bounty-hunter Stephanie gets a couple two-bit FTAs (failure to appear) to get back to court. She fails miserably a couple times and rewards herself with doughnuts. While juggling lusty feelings for both Ranger and Morelli, she gets an unwanted sidekick tagging along. After getting yet another car destroyed, her neighborhood cops show up to laugh at her. She goes to have dinner with her protective mother and smack-talking grandma, while her father rolls his eyes and quietly eats his In this book, bounty-hunter Stephanie gets a couple two-bit FTAs (failure to appear) to get back to court. She fails miserably a couple times and rewards herself with doughnuts. While juggling lusty feelings for both Ranger and Morelli, she gets an unwanted sidekick tagging along. After getting yet another car destroyed, her neighborhood cops show up to laugh at her. She goes to have dinner with her protective mother and smack-talking grandma, while her father rolls his eyes and quietly eats his dinner. Later, Stephanie and Lulu go on a stake-out, miss their quary, and go out for pizza/shopping. Though both Ranger and Morelli try to protect her, she refuses to be cowed (though still shaking in her boots) and makes the final confrontation with the bad guy. Sound familiar? That is essentially the plot of all of the Stephanie Plum books that I've read so far. Though it was cute at first, it gets old essentially reading the same story over and over again. I used to get the Plum books out as fluff to read on airplane trips. Now, reading it as a break in between other books, this just seems far to shallow with no real growth in the character over time. ...more You know what this series is like? It's Casualty . Each episode has a different story or two related to the job, and sometimes those caught up in it have some sort of connection with one of the regulars, but meanwhile there's a soap-opera plot which depends more on the personalities and out-of-work life of the main characters. A slightly new tale, a familiar formula and the latest status updates from people you've come to care for. OK, so this is bond enforcement in New Jersey, not A&E in Hol You know what this series is like? It's Casualty . Each episode has a different story or two related to the job, and sometimes those caught up in it have some sort of connection with one of the regulars, but meanwhile there's a soap-opera plot which depends more on the personalities and out-of-work life of the main characters. A slightly new tale, a familiar formula and the latest status updates from people you've come to care for. OK, so this is bond enforcement in New Jersey, not A&E in Holby; the genre is comedy rather than drama; and you know Stephanie's going to get a car destroyed rather than knowing that person working in the factory is going to have a horrid accident - but you see what I mean don't you? If you're British that is. I think Alexander McCall Smith 's No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency may be heading the same way too, although to a lesser extent. There are touches of it in Sue Grafton 's alphabet books too. So, I wonder, is it an inevitable fate, or a necessary or/and sufficient condition for the success of a long-running series? Discuss. Anyway, in spite of that, the one-book only plot is more centre-stage here than it was in Seven Up which does make it a little less manic, but no less fun than usual. This one has to include the most sinister life-sized rabbit since Donnie Darko . Also rather sinister is what happens to the villan at the end - Joe has good reason to worry about Stephanie methinks. ...more In Hard Eight, it begins with Stephanie feeling a little in limbo. She likes her job, generally speaking. However she is getting tired of her tendency to be stalked by crazy people or getting shot at. Both of which happen once again in her latest case. Her neighbor Mabel comes to her for help. Mabel's grandaughter Evelyn and her daughter Annie are on the run from Eveyln's exhusband. Due to a custody-bond agreement where Mabel put her house up for collateral, her house is now potentially going to In Hard Eight, it begins with Stephanie feeling a little in limbo. She likes her job, generally speaking. However she is getting tired of her tendency to be stalked by crazy people or getting shot at. Both of which happen once again in her latest case. Her neighbor Mabel comes to her for help. Mabel's grandaughter Evelyn and her daughter Annie are on the run from Eveyln's exhusband. Due to a custody-bond agreement where Mabel put her house up for collateral, her house is now potentially going to be taken away unless someone finds Evelyn and Annie. Stephanie decides to take up the case while the usual hijinks occur. There's also a past FTA who gets in trouble with the law again and even the entire bond agency itself fails to bring him in. Joe and Stephanie's relationship seems to be in the off-again stage but Stephanie begins to miss it. Also lots of Ranger yumminess when he comes to demand payment from the previous book. If you like one Stephanie Plum book, you'll kinda like them all since they keep the same tone. I loved all the Ranger in it since I am a Team Ranger girl. It was a good book to read when I needed some fun and humor for a while. ...more 5 stars ***** just for sheer laugh-out-loudness! I love the Stephanie Plum series. She has to be the unluckiest bail bonds-person/private-eye ever! These books are fabulously confusing, over-the-top, well plotted, raunchy, and stuffed with crazy characters & black humour. They have it all and really do have you laughing out loud. The best thing, for me, is that there are lots left in the series for me to read!! Yay! ;) I received Hard Eight, the unabridged audiobook version, as a present and approached it with a small amount of wariness because the last Janet Evanovich book I read on audio (that would be Seven Up ) was ruined by the terrible over the top, cartoon-like rendering of the characters by narrator Tonya Elby. Hard Eight is read by a woman named Lorelei who takes an extremely different approach to Stephanie. Her approach, unfortunately, also does not work for me. Am I too picky, or what? Stephanie's voi I received Hard Eight, the unabridged audiobook version, as a present and approached it with a small amount of wariness because the last Janet Evanovich book I read on audio (that would be Seven Up ) was ruined by the terrible over the top, cartoon-like rendering of the characters by narrator Tonya Elby. Hard Eight is read by a woman named Lorelei who takes an extremely different approach to Stephanie. Her approach, unfortunately, also does not work for me. Am I too picky, or what? Stephanie's voice as read in this version is way too cultured, way too slow and it doesn't sound at all like the Stephanie Plum we all know and love. Here she sounds more like an out of place blue blooded socialite than a plucky Trenton, New Jersey girl. Stephanie's words are too often over-enunciated and the Jersey accent is lost altogether. And Ranger?! Ugh, he almost sounds like Fez from \"That 70's Show\". Is there no happy medium here folks? I must say, though, that the other characters do come to life and the reader did a great job differentiating the characters from each other (unlike the actress who voiced Seven Up). When a child speaks she sounds like a child. When a criminal speaks he sounds like a criminal. Not necessarily a criminal from New Jersey but I guess you just can't have it all. Now about the story: This time around Stephanie is on the search for a missing woman named Evelyn Soder and her young daughter Annie. Evelyn's grandmother Mabel is a neighbor of the Plum family (this is how Stephanie gets wrapped up in the case). Evelyn's ex-husband plans to cash in a \"child custody bond\" funded by Mabel. Mabel fears she'll lose her home if Evelyn isn't found and she fears for her great-granddaughter because Evelyn isn't exactly a \"stable\" personality. So, Stephanie, our fearless, bumbling bounty hunter and her friend Lula start sniffing around and before long they have a run in with Evelyn's landlord, an evil man named Eddie Abruzzi. Abruzzi, who gives even street toughened Lula the creeps, is a nasty criminal who adds a much needed dark edge to this predictably frothy series. Rounding out the cast of characters are the usual members that inhabit Stephanie's wild life. Grandma Mazer is her normally wacky self, Stephanie's not-quite-so-perfect-anymore sister Valerie is still trying to find herself and newcomer Albert Kloughn (pronounced Clown, of course) joins the cast. He's a goofy lawyer who badly wants to be Stephanie's assistant and begins to follow her around like a lost puppy dog. Accident prone yet immensely lovable, Kloughn provides a few of the (far too few) comical moments in the story. The usual run-ins with Ranger and Joe are here but I have to admit this love triangle stuff is getting awfully stale. Stephanie's still torn between the two sexy men and flip-flops between them. I wish they'd just hash it out and put an end to this tired \"who will she pick?\" drama. Enough already! This story was my least favorite of the Plum books. It's not bad by any means and still entertains with its fast pace and moments of wit and I enjoyed the dark edge but the laugh out moments are too few and far between and everything has become too predictable. Stephanie is stuck in a rut and hasn't grown a bit since Book One. She keeps repeating the same mistakes that were funny, oh say three books ago? She forgets her gun, she bumbles her FTA's, she has intense sexual tension with Ranger and Joe, her cars are blown up at an alarming rate, and she eats horrifically bad food but still manages to squeeze into her jeans. It's all too familiar at this point but, yeah, I'll still buy the next book because even mediocre Stephanie Plum is better than no Stephanie Plum. ...more Well, I think I am done with Miss Plum. Eight books and she is still terrible at what she does. People are always asking her why she doesn't get a new job, and I have come to the conclusion it's because she has an undisclosed death-wish, why the hell else would you do a job you're bad at where you are constantly putting yourself in danger? She doesn't take it seriously at all. ACK. I'm so annoyed. I've read reviews for books later in the series (17, 18) and it appears nothing changes between now Well, I think I am done with Miss Plum. Eight books and she is still terrible at what she does. People are always asking her why she doesn't get a new job, and I have come to the conclusion it's because she has an undisclosed death-wish, why the hell else would you do a job you're bad at where you are constantly putting yourself in danger? She doesn't take it seriously at all. ACK. I'm so annoyed. I've read reviews for books later in the series (17, 18) and it appears nothing changes between now and then, so I am just not going to bother. I might pick up the LAST book in the series to see what happens, but until then, they are all much the same. Again, eight books and she is still back and forth with Morrelli, I'm really over this 'love' triangle, not only is it annoying, but it's not real. She loves Morelli, she knows she wants to be with him, and she could have him, but again she is stubborn and won't give up the job she doesn't enjoy that much, is crap at and would get her killed if she wasn't constantly getting bailed out by one guy or another (or in this case, her mother and sister!). It's the only thing standing in the way of her having a real relationship with the man she loves, and maybe, actually, finding some happiness. If there had been any laugh out loud funny bits in the book, I might not feel so annoyed, but it all felt flat for me. I'm disappointed as these have been a go to light weight, fun read until now. ...more This series is quite simply a never-ending buffet, well maybe it will end sooner or later, but not soon. Just when you think our gal Stephanie's run of bad luck has come to an end, it starts again. Added to the usual cast of characters in this volume is an attorney named Albert Kloughn pronounced \"clown\". He gets sucked into the F5 which is Stephanie's life and career. Stephanie is on the lookout for her neighbor's daughter, who doesn't want to be found. Trouble is Stephanie may not be the only This series is quite simply a never-ending buffet, well maybe it will end sooner or later, but not soon. Just when you think our gal Stephanie's run of bad luck has come to an end, it starts again. Added to the usual cast of characters in this volume is an attorney named Albert Kloughn pronounced \"clown\". He gets sucked into the F5 which is Stephanie's life and career. Stephanie is on the lookout for her neighbor's daughter, who doesn't want to be found. Trouble is Stephanie may not be the only one looking for her. I seriously don't think there is a funnier series of books in print. This one is even better than the others. For those reading this that have not read any books in this series, please start reading them. If you have read up to the seventh book and are wondering whether to read this one, it's a no-brainer. 5 stars ...more La Evanovich \u00e8 come sempre magistrale nel farti ridere a crepapelle per le situazioni pi\u00f9 inverosimili e bizzarre, senza risultare mai esagerata. Come al solito, Stephanie \u00e8 alle prese con macchine che vanno a fuoco, criminali mascherati, sfuggenti e pericolosi, una famiglia esilarante e amici surreali. Qui deve anche palleggiarsi (finalmente fino in fondo anche con Ranger) tra i suoi due uomini da sballo che le ronzano intorno. Stephanie \u00e8 sempre un toccasana. When more description is given to the homocidal masturbating bunny than Plum's first time with Ranger . . . Something's not quite right. Amusing, fun, but decidedly disappointing. Now To the Nines .... Janet did it again, this one made me laugh out loud a lot of parts. This series is so addicting By far my favorite of the series......and all I can say is I am in love with Ranger.... I really enjoy this series of books. Something quick, light and funny to read. I finished this one at about 2:30 in the morning, it's all the previous books fault. I wanted to see if Stephanie paid up on her end of the deal with Ranger, but she doesn't, at the beginning anyways. I should have stopped there, but the potential Ranger goodness sucked me in. And I wasn't disappointed. =D I don't think there's going to be any long term Stephanie-Ranger cause the books seem to always bring her back to boring Morelli, but I'll take what I can get. Ranger's always lurking around w I finished this one at about 2:30 in the morning, it's all the previous books fault. I wanted to see if Stephanie paid up on her end of the deal with Ranger, but she doesn't, at the beginning anyways. I should have stopped there, but the potential Ranger goodness sucked me in. And I wasn't disappointed. =D I don't think there's going to be any long term Stephanie-Ranger cause the books seem to always bring her back to boring Morelli, but I'll take what I can get. Ranger's always lurking around with his awesomeness. =) Lots of good stuff in this book, I enjoyed Stephanie and her cousin Vinnie teaming up to pick up FTAs, they haven't caught one yet, but they are pretty hilarious with Vinnie likely to shoot up places(which might have been a different book, but, again, blurry lines between books for me =) and Stephanie hanging out car windows to shoot at men in bunny costumes. Speaking of, her mom running over said man in bunny costume, was both funny and terrible, but mostly funny cause this is fiction after all. =) (view spoiler) [Finally Ranger kills someone who's after Stephanie! (real life: killing=bad. books: killing=not so bad =) There were a couple other instances in books I was hoping Ranger would show up at opportune times but never did. I had high hopes as the book neared the end and the crazy guy of this book was still at large and Ranger didn't disappoint. And in his awesomeness he made it look like a suicide. Stephanie is already back in Morelli's arms(boo!) by the end, but I'm thinking Stephanie isn't going to look as fondly on Ranger's activities as I did. =D In case it's not obvious by now I'm reading the books 75% for Ranger and 25% to see how Stephanie's car gets destroyed each book. =D (hide spoiler) ] My book reading is going to slow down a tad now, and not just because of Christmas approaching. The first in-betweeen book was not returned to my friend so I'm hoping the library has it before I can dive back into the other ones I do have. ...more Stephanie Plum is helping out a neighbor of her parents by trying to locate her grand daughter and great grand daughter. Evelyn's sleezy ex and her signed a child custody bond and now Steven wants his money and the bond was bought for Evelyn by putting up Grandmothers house. Steven is connected to a very bad ass named Eddie Abruzzi and is now threating Stephanie and her family. Stephanie is also trying to capture and take in Andy Bender who is a violent drunk. Bender keeps alluding her and peopl Stephanie Plum is helping out a neighbor of her parents by trying to locate her grand daughter and great grand daughter. Evelyn's sleezy ex and her signed a child custody bond and now Steven wants his money and the bond was bought for Evelyn by putting up Grandmothers house. Steven is connected to a very bad ass named Eddie Abruzzi and is now threating Stephanie and her family. Stephanie is also trying to capture and take in Andy Bender who is a violent drunk. Bender keeps alluding her and people and \"things\" keep getting in her way from finding Evelyn and her daughter Annie. She is faced with creatures in her apartment and car, a crazy, demented \"rabbit\" and more cars being destroyed. On top of this, Ranger has decided to \"call up\" on his tab with Stephanie. Now with the love triangle of Stephanie, Ranger and Morelli, this could only be suspensful, sexually tense and hilarious. We can't forget Grandma Mazur and Lula to all to the entertainment. I really liked this book. One of my favorites so far. Other than being \"out loud\" laughing hysterical as always, it shows a more emotional ,and I felt, serious side to the main characters. Not your constant \"slapstick\" comedy. Although I do feel Stephanie is getting a burnt out between all this mayhem and romance conflicts. Would like to see the fiesty, aggresive Stephanice again. Great book. I loved it. ...more This was a good recovery from the last book for me. I laughed quite a few times in this book and was getting the evil eye from my husband for it again so that's a good thing. What is it with Stephanie and picking up every stray in the Burg? Kloughn just cracked me up, Lula, God... what a team the three of them make. Misfit Ragtag, but damn funny to read. The dryer scene, I nearly pee'd my pants on that one. Very funny. And Psycho's? What's up with every psycho in the Burg wanting a piece of her! I This was a good recovery from the last book for me. I laughed quite a few times in this book and was getting the evil eye from my husband for it again so that's a good thing. What is it with Stephanie and picking up every stray in the Burg? Kloughn just cracked me up, Lula, God... what a team the three of them make. Misfit Ragtag, but damn funny to read. The dryer scene, I nearly pee'd my pants on that one. Very funny. And Psycho's? What's up with every psycho in the Burg wanting a piece of her! I swear she attracts them like bears to honey. Sweet Jesus... the Geese? I was kicked out of the bed room over that one. Ranger... well, at least they've done it now and at least she wasn't cheating on Morelli when she did. I'm happy about that, but I'm still not loving the Ranger/Steph couple as much as Morelli/Steph. Ranger will not commit, I think he's made that abundantly clear and deep down I know Stephanie wants to commit, she's just too damn stubborn to accept it. I'm glad that there is still a Morelli / Stephanie and I hope they resolve things in the near future, because I love them together. ...more Finally more action from Ranger in this book! I was a little disappointed of Steph and Ranger's one night stand, it needed something more. After all the suspence towards it in the last books, I was expecting something.... more. What would really make me love this series is if there were some POV from Morelli and Ranger... God I would really love to know what is going on in their minds behind all those intense stares and sexy grins!! So, I guess she is back with Morelli again at the end of this boo Finally more action from Ranger in this book! I was a little disappointed of Steph and Ranger's one night stand, it needed something more. After all the suspence towards it in the last books, I was expecting something.... more. What would really make me love this series is if there were some POV from Morelli and Ranger... God I would really love to know what is going on in their minds behind all those intense stares and sexy grins!! So, I guess she is back with Morelli again at the end of this book. Shame.... I wanted more Ranger, wanted to see if he would lose his controlled mind set with Steph and surprise us. Loving the \"love triangle\" in this series but wished Ranger was more present in the books as most of the time he just pops up gives a couple of remarks with babe at the end and thats that. This series is funny and silly and sometimes stupidly predictable but it really lacks character development and Steph's life hasn't really changed much since the 1st book. I just noticed that this series has 23 books but hasn't ended yet... OMG... I really hope they get better and evolve. ...more This one by far is my favorite! I was laughing non-stop from the beginning to end. Lula is hilarious and Stephanie continues to get herself into trouble, it amazes me how much luck she has to survive especially in dealing so much with the mob type of men. This was the first time one of her FTA's escaped her as well. And finally, she payed Ranger some of her bill...it seems to me that the author Janet prefers Morelli for Stephanie. She seems to describe their interactions with more detail and whe This one by far is my favorite! I was laughing non-stop from the beginning to end. Lula is hilarious and Stephanie continues to get herself into trouble, it amazes me how much luck she has to survive especially in dealing so much with the mob type of men. This was the first time one of her FTA's escaped her as well. And finally, she payed Ranger some of her bill...it seems to me that the author Janet prefers Morelli for Stephanie. She seems to describe their interactions with more detail and when Ranger and Stephanie finally \"paid\" up, it seemed a little flat to me. Maybe I'm prejudiced because I'm over Morelli and Stephanie. LOL. To me he is her first love, her first everything and I feel it's time to move on. I understand the intense feelings being that he is her first love, but I guess Ranger seems to fit into Stephanie's lifestyle more being that he doesn't give her a hard time about what she does. Interested to see where this triangle goes ...more Another good novel for running. Stephanie is after 2 people in this novel. The first is the granddaughter of her parent's next door neighbour. She has disappeared with her daughter and has a child bond. The second is a man out on bail who has assaulted his wife. For most of the novel, Stephanie is not very good in either case. Overall, a typically Stephanie Plum novel, a nice mindless read. 4stelle e mezzo per una serie da 5 stelle!!! \u00c8 l'ottavo libro ed \u00e8 divertente, esilarante, incalzante come i precedenti. Come non adorare Stephanie con tutti i suoi difetti, le sue imperfezioni e quella dose di autoironia che la rende diversa da tutte queste eroine perfettine dei nostri tempi.....una ragazza della porta accanto anche se come vicina di casa sarebbe pericolosa :-) It took me about 3 years to finish this book. Not sure why. Steph has to pay up on her debt with Ranger and they have sex. She and Morelli are on a time-out...but may have gotten back together in the end. Grandma Mazur was a hoot. Nattation by CJ Critt = awesome!! Un brin moins succulent que les deux derniers tomes. Mais \u00e7a reste Stephanie Plum, c'est donc tr\u00e8s plaisant et l\u00e9g\u00e8rement addictif !!! A Ranger book. 'nuf said :)", "Title": "Hard Eight"},
