{"Comments": "The premise is extraordinarily interesting and meticulously developed. The question posed: what if two opposed cities existed side by side (<---B>with more than an occasional overlap</---B>) but were separated, not by an actual wall like East and West Berlin, but by the deeply enculturated habit of deliberate ignorance,<---M> a studied denial of the other</---M>, a fierce determination not to see? The central dilemma: when a murder is committed in one city, and the body is dumped in the other, how do the detectives inves The premise is extraordinarily interesting and meticulously developed. The question posed: what if two opposed cities existed side by side (with more than an occasional overlap) but were separated, not by an actual wall like East and West Berlin, but by the deeply enculturated habit of deliberate ignorance, a studied denial of the other, a fierce determination not to see? The central dilemma: when a murder is committed in one city, and the body is dumped in the other, how do the detectives investigate the crime without violating the taboos of their society? The first third of the book (and a brief coda at the end) are filled with symbolic resonance. Unfortunately, however, the mystery itself is conventional, the action predictable, and the murderer easily guessed. The second third is less effective than the first, and the final section less effective still. If Mieville had embodied the symbolic essence of his original conceit in working out his plot, this might have been a work worthy of Kafka and Schulz--its major influences. As is, it is a so-so mystery with a hauntingly memorable setting.<---F> Then again </---F>. . . the setting continues to resonate long after the book is completed, for it has much to say to us about the uneasy compromises we make in a complex urban environment. Perhaps, after all, this resonance is enough. ...more Wow. Okay, I'm definitely fangirling for <---A>China Mi\u00e9ville</---A>. I love his limitless imagination, the skill to effortlessly make an unbelievable premise feel real, and ability to turn any setting and place into a true protagonist. SOME SPOILERS MAY HAVE CREEPED IN SOMEHOW, SO BE WARNED This is my first non-Bas Lag novel, set in the (more or less) real world. But no reason to worry - this remains as much of \"weird fiction\" as anything else by His Chinaness. As Mi\u00e9ville tries to write a novel in every genr Wow. Okay, I'm definitely fangirling for China Mi\u00e9ville. I love his limitless imagination, the skill to effortlessly make an unbelievable premise feel real, and ability to turn any setting and place into a true protagonist. SOME SPOILERS MAY HAVE CREEPED IN SOMEHOW, SO BE WARNED This is my first non-Bas Lag novel, set in the (more or less) real world. But no reason to worry - this remains as much of \"weird fiction\" as anything else by His Chinaness. As Mi\u00e9ville tries to write a novel in every genre of fiction, this time he tackles a hardboiled noir crime mystery . A murder of a young woman, investigated by a slightly cynical but good and incorruptible detective <---C>Tyador Borl\u00fa</---C> of Beszel Extreme Crime Squad, quickly evolves into a much larger mystery plot. It is a detective story, a hard-boiled crime with all the specifics and peculiarities of this genre. We have a murder mystery, high reliance on dialogue, fast-paced plot, many logical leaps and jumps that may confuse the reader about certain plot points but that still shed light on the story as a whole. \" We are all philosophers here where I am, and we debate among many other things the question of where it is that we live. \" But the mystery plot, albeit engaging and interesting, feels just as an excuse to introduce the reader to the fascinating world of quasi-Eastern European twin cities of Besz\u00e9l and Ul Qoma. The cities are the true protagonists, not Detective Berl\u00fa whose character is little more than an outline, the window into this world. Once a single city, Besz\u00e9l and Ul Qoma were split apart by a mysterious Cleavage centuries ago. \" From that historically brief quite opaque moment, came the chaos of our material history, an anarchy of chronology, of mismatched remnants that delighted and horrified investigators. \" These are two separate nations with distinct languages, customs, clothes, economics. They do not like each other much. And yet they are not separated by any physical barrier - the division between them is done by their citizens who have been conditioned since the early age to 'unsee' and 'unhear' the citizens of the other country, even if they share the same streets and buildings in the 'crosshatched' areas belonging both to Besz\u00e9l and Ul Qoma. The cities share their past and present and their geography, but rigidly maintain the invisible lines of separation. Simply seeing and acknowledging someone from the other city - who can be within inches of you on the same street, on the same sidewalk, but yet in another country - is the ultimate crime, the breach. And it is this semi-willing separation between Besz\u00e9l and Ul Qoma that brings out the overarching themes of this book . The City & The City addresses the question of national identity and how it is determined. There is much more than simple geography that goes into creating a people, a nation. There are subtler things like bits and pieces of learned behaviors, strange and puzzling to the foreigners beliefs and habits, time-tested social conventions, seemingly ridiculous taboos based on strange old traditions. It's the amalgam of the little seemingly senseless and hard to understand things that defines a nation. As I'm visiting my Eastern European motherland right now, I'm struck by the realization of the same - how much the national identity is the direct result of little idiosyncrasies . And the question arises - what will become of the nation itself if its beliefs and peculiarities are questioned? Is there a comeback from that ? \" It's not just us keeping them apart. It's everyone in Besz\u00e9l and everyone in Ul Qoma. Every minute, every day. We're only the last ditch: it's everyone in the cities who does most of the work. It works because you don't blink. That's why unseeing and unsensing are so vital. No one can admit it doesn't work. So if you don't admit it, it does. But if you breach, even if it's not your fault, for more than the shortest time ... you can't come back from that. \" As usual, Mi\u00e9ville presents us with superb and sophisticated world-building. The both cities are vivid and memorable, the atmosphere in both is depicted with skill and depth, and the nuances of this world are revealed subtly and unobtrusively without overt clunky exposition. As I came to expect from him, China Mi\u00e9ville takes a concept that is rather difficult to swallow - the duality of this world, relying on little else but the tradition to keep it going - and develops it so well that by the end of the book it felt real to me. The language of The City & The City , when compared to the Bas Lag books, is quite simple, even minimalistic. It is not luxurious or flowing; on the contrary, it is crisp, clear, and devoid of any extraneous words, any extraneous descriptions, any possible fluff. It was the first book by Mi\u00e9ville that I found a quick and easy read. And yet, despite the surface easiness, it is still incredibly sophisticated and very visual. This book fully deserves 4.5 stars. I highly recommend it both to Mi\u00e9ville fans and those who for whatever strange reason have not read his books yet. ...more AN AMAZING, EARTH-SHATTERING MAKE UP SEXUAL READING EXPERIENCE!! 6.0 stars. We all know that relationships have there ups and downs and that spats are going to happen even to the strongest of them. Well a few months ago, after having a couple of incredible years with China Mieville\u2019s books, (i.e., Perdido Street Station and The Scar and ), both of which are among my ALL TIME FAVORITES...suddenly turmoil. The cause of the turmoil was Un Lun Dun , which I just did not like and thought was UGH-LAME- AN AMAZING, EARTH-SHATTERING MAKE UP SEXUAL READING EXPERIENCE!! 6.0 stars. We all know that relationships have there ups and downs and that spats are going to happen even to the strongest of them. Well a few months ago, after having a couple of incredible years with China Mieville\u2019s books, (i.e., Perdido Street Station and The Scar and ), both of which are among my ALL TIME FAVORITES...suddenly turmoil. The cause of the turmoil was Un Lun Dun , which I just did not like and thought was UGH-LAME-DUMB . All of sudden, what I thought was going to be a story-book, literary bromance was rife with doubts, questions and a whole lot of uncertainty. Well all that is past like gas my friends. I am here to tell you that The City & The City is the best apology/make-up reading experience I have ever had and has recharged my bookish man-crush on CM until it is once again at full throb. I mean WOW! WOW! WUBBZY! everyone, this story is pure liquid gold, highly literate and puts the PRO back in prose in mind-bombing fashion. What I once might have said with irony, I now say with conviction... CHINA...MIEVILLE...IS...THE MAN!! Okay, as I imagine my gush will continue throughout this written version of a standing ovation, let me at least thumbnail the plot for you as it is a corker. The book is framed as a crime/mystery/detective thriller. The main character is Tyador Borlu, a detective in the Extreme Crime Squad (ECS) for the City of Beszel, who is investigating the brutal murder of a young female student. While never geographically placed, Beszel is a fictional Eastern European city that I was thinking was somewhere in the vicinity of Bulgaria/Romania/Hungary. With me so far...okay... ... Now enter the completely original, BRAIN-CRAMP-INDUCING, OMGnormously brilliant central Mievillian concept... ( NOTE : If you have mushrooms, peyote or some other mind-expanding substance, you might want to take some now before continuing ....AHHHHHH that\u2019s better...but now...WOAH...everything is so GREEEEEN....sorry about that...where was I...oh yeah the awesomeness. Major parts of Beszel are geographically located and exist in the same physical space as major parts of another city known as Ul Qoma. The history of how this happened is only hinted at and mostly shrouded in mystery but the result is that these two cities each have 3 distinct areas. Areas 1 and 2 are those parts of the cities that are 100% in one city or another (basically, what we would call normal). These are referred to by residents of the cities as either Total (what a citizen calls the parts that are 100% in their own city) or Alter (what a citizen calls the parts that are 100% in the \u201cother\u201d city). Still with me...good because here is where it gets real tricky dicky. The third \u201carea\u201d type is referred to as \u201ccross-hatched.\u201d As the name implies, these are areas where the cities overlap and places appear in both cities. As Wackyspeedia puts it, \u201cThese might be streets, parks or squares where denizens of both cities walk alongside one another, albeit unseen .\u201d Now let\u2019s talk about the \u201calbeit unseen\u201d because that is the crux of the fantastical element of the story. People from both cities are indoctrinated from birth to \u201cunsee\u201d people from the other city in those areas that are cross-hatched. To acknowledge or \u201csee\u201d someone from another city is the single worst taboo in both cities (more so even than murder) and is referred to as \u201cbreach.\u201d I know, kinda hurts the head, but believe me when I say that CM does such an amazing job with the story that after the first 75 to 100 pages you are completely immersed in the world and it actually makes sense. That\u2019s enough plot background. From there you are on your own but CM has your back and you are in the most capable of hands. MOST IMPRESSIVE ASPECTS OF THE NOVEL First : The ability for Mieville to make this complex, cerebrally challenging world come to life and resonate with the reader. Basically everything I said above. Second : As good as the concept was, the execution of this tremendously difficult idea is the single greatest accomplishment of this story and something that is almost never done successfully with this kind of difficult, central concept. The book stays in character THE ENTIRE TIME. There is never a moment when Mieville writes himself into a \u201ccross hatched\u201d corner or loses control of his grand idea. How many times have you been intrigued by a novel because of a cool idea only to have it be \u201ctoo big\u201d for the author to handle. Well CM is up to the task. Once you accept the two cities occupying the same space, he never makes you regret it. There are no \u201cgotcha\u201d moments where the world-building fails or where the reader is left saying \u201cthat doesn\u2019t work.\u201d Another author I like and respect, Michael Moorcock, put it this way: On many levels this novel is a testament to [CM\u2019s] admirable integrity. Keeping his grip firmly on an idea which would quickly slip from the hands of a less skilled writer, Mi\u00e9ville again proves himself as intelligent as he is original. EXACTLY. Third : The rest of my list are all things we have heard many times before applied to China Mieville, but they are worth repeating. Number three is his prose. Lush, poetic, beautiful and as addicting as a caramel sundae with \u201ccrack\u201d sprinkles and a large order of duck fat french fries with liquid meth/heroin dipping sauce. Fourth : Dialogue, dialogue, dialogue...CM is the deity of dialogue, the god of gab, and the k Cing of conversation. His character interactions always feel authentic and believable and yet are so slick and breezy that the words slide right off the page. Five : Plot/Pacing has been the one area where even my favorite CM stories sometimes fall a little short. NOT this time. The plot and pacing are just about perfect. The plot is complex, intricate and oh so engrossing and yet the pacing skates along at very good clip. I think a big reason for this stems from the story being only 300 pages long (whereas PSS and The Scar were both in the 700 page realm). 300 pages is the perfect length for a mystery story and China hits the bull right in eye on this one. Well that\u2019s about it, but I feel like I have to say at least something negative about the book so that it feels like an even-handed review. Okay, here are two \u201cnegatives\u201d: (1) the cover art was pretty mediocre and (2) the book is still not as good as Perdido Street Station. There, satisfied. Apart from that, I loved this book. I give it 6.0 Stars, have added it to my list of All Time Favorite novels and am very pleased that CM and I were able to get over our recent troubles. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! ...more I see why so many people are underwhelmed by The City and The City , China Mi\u00e9ville 's strange and wonderful homage to the mystery genre and his mother. It is because while The City and The City is both of those things, it is also -- and more powerfully -- a love letter to his fans and an act of oeuvre snobbery of the first order. What Mi\u00e9ville has done is to build a story upon his favourite themes, and to require that his audience is familiar with other occurrences of these themes in his work to fu I see why so many people are underwhelmed by The City and The City , China Mi\u00e9ville 's strange and wonderful homage to the mystery genre and his mother. It is because while The City and The City is both of those things, it is also -- and more powerfully -- a love letter to his fans and an act of oeuvre snobbery of the first order. What Mi\u00e9ville has done is to build a story upon his favourite themes, and to require that his audience is familiar with other occurrences of these themes in his work to fully appreciate what he's done (perhaps inadvertently, but there it is). The unseen and the uncity occur throughout his work in varying forms, but they come together in The City and The City with an intensity and concreteness that he has only flirted with before. Saul Garamond ( King Rat ), Silas Fennec ( The Scar ), Toro & Spiral Jacobs ( Iron Council ), The Weaver ( Perdido Street Station ), are all characters that move unseen. Each have their own reasons for moving unseen and their own methods for achieving it, but all of them move in and through the spaces that others cannot see or fail to see or choose not to see. And all of the motives and reasons for unseeing these characters culminate in the Beszel/Ul Qoma /Breach unseeing that Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Besz Extreme Crime Squad moves through in his search for the killer of a young American archaeologist. But the murder mystery, and even the potential conspiracies that swirl around the murder, are nowhere near as important as the way these two cities crosshatch and overlay and grosstopic, and the way people from the mundane to the Breach move through and around and in and outside all the permutations of these places in one place. And that concept of cities being more than what we are willing to see is the other piece of Mi\u00e9ville 's narcissitically intertextual puzzle. In The City & The City it is two cities in the same space with a possible third city in the cracks. In Un-Lun-Dun it is an ab-city for every city. And in Reports Of Certain Events In London, Varmin Way is a rogue street that hides and moves and won't let itself be found, and Mi\u00e9ville himself is the care taker of the files that speak of the streets existence. And even when Mi\u00e9ville 's cities are behaving like cities should, their presence is so powerful, like Armada and New Crobuzon, that they are almost entities in their own right. The City and The City is the culmination of just over ten years of China Mi\u00e9ville 's already impressive career, but it won't receive the love it deserves, at least not for now. Once David Fincher or some other visionary director decides to put it on film, however, it may well become Mi\u00e9ville 's most respected work. Too bad Orson Welles wasn't still alive. The City and The City would be right up his dissensi . ...more 5ish stars. This is a simple, classic noir detective story. Except it's anything but a simple, classic noir detective story. The story at the heart of the novel isn't really out of the ordinary. But the way it takes place is bonkers. The setting of the book is in two separate cities existing within the same geographical (\"grosstopical\") area. How is that possible? It's honestly pretty hard to figure out at first. There's very little exposition; we're thrown into this world, having it explained i 5ish stars. This is a simple, classic noir detective story. Except it's anything but a simple, classic noir detective story. The story at the heart of the novel isn't really out of the ordinary. But the way it takes place is bonkers. The setting of the book is in two separate cities existing within the same geographical (\"grosstopical\") area. How is that possible? It's honestly pretty hard to figure out at first. There's very little exposition; we're thrown into this world, having it explained in bits and pieces through the eyes of our narrator. Inspector Tyador Borlu is from the Extreme Crime Squad in Beszel, one of the titular Cities and he's got a mystery on his hands... Mieville gives us an absolutely brilliant interpretation of segregation, cultural differences, political influence, governmental authority etc. in his creation of this fascinating world (view spoiler) [which is really just a different take on our own bizarre world- there are plenty of examples of \"grosstopical separation\" throughout history... (hide spoiler) ] . Is the world ridiculously stupid or immediately believable? We're left with lots of questions to ponder and discuss which is just as much fun as reading. I didn't find the characters or the dialogue particularly fascinating but that doesn't even matter. The true main characters of the story are the Cities themselves and they shine. ...more Tyador Borlu of Beszel's Extreme Crime Squad is assigned to the murder case of an unknown woman. To find her killer, Borlu must go to the neighboring city of Ul Qoma and team with Qussim Dhatt of the Murder Squad. Can the two detectives from different cultures figure out who the victim is and why she was killed? Wow. The core premise of The City & The City requires some explaining but I think I'm up to the task. Remember those perceptual illusions you were so enamored with when you were a kid Tyador Borlu of Beszel's Extreme Crime Squad is assigned to the murder case of an unknown woman. To find her killer, Borlu must go to the neighboring city of Ul Qoma and team with Qussim Dhatt of the Murder Squad. Can the two detectives from different cultures figure out who the victim is and why she was killed? Wow. The core premise of The City & The City requires some explaining but I think I'm up to the task. Remember those perceptual illusions you were so enamored with when you were a kid? Like the old woman/young girl: Okay. Instead of images of an old woman and a young girl, picture instead two cities that overlap. People from one city are trained from birth to unsee/unsense people and buildings in the other city. Still with me? Now picture a murder mystery set in one of the intersections between the two cities. Yeah, it was one mindbender of a read. While The City & The City is firmly in the new weird genre, it's also a gritty crime story, which makes it substantially more accessible than many of Mieville's works. Tyador Borlu and Qussim Dhatt are the bickering cops that secretly grow to respect one another as they unravel a mystery than snakes back and forth between the two neighboring cities. Kind of like Jim Belushi and Arnold in Red Heat, except good. The thing that makes The City & The City work is that the cities are quite different from one another. While Ul Qoma and Beszel aren't as detailed as New Crobuzon, they are both distinct entities. While the idea of being in one city or the other is really odd, Mieville does a good job of explaining it and making it seem plausible. How often do you actually remember what homeless people look like, for example. The concept of the Breach is also part of the glue that holds the story together. Part police force, part bogey man, the Breach enforce the unseeing/unsensing of the other city, keeping people from going back and forth between cities with impunity. There's not a lot else I can say without ruining key plot points. If they were to make a movie of one of China Mieville's books, this would be the one. I kept seeing Ewan MacGregor and Jason Statham as the cops. It reminds me of Grant Morrison's The Invisibles at times, Neverwhere at others, and Jeff Vandermeer's Finch at still other times. I didn't like it quite as much as Finch but it was still spectacular. For fans of both detective fiction and the new weird, it's definitely a must-read. 4.5 out of 5. ...more Urban Recall I read this almost 12 months ago, which makes it difficult to recall and recount the tone of the writing. However, I would like to make some general comments about the novel. An Abstract High Concept Novel In one sense, it is an abstract high concept novel. What does this mean? It's high concept in the sense that it takes a basic concept and explores it in detail. And it doesn't stray very far away from that concept. It's not \"Snakes on a Plane\". It's far more abstract than that. The C Urban Recall I read this almost 12 months ago, which makes it difficult to recall and recount the tone of the writing. However, I would like to make some general comments about the novel. An Abstract High Concept Novel In one sense, it is an abstract high concept novel. What does this mean? It's high concept in the sense that it takes a basic concept and explores it in detail. And it doesn't stray very far away from that concept. It's not \"Snakes on a Plane\". It's far more abstract than that. The Concept The concept is basically: what if two cities and cultures or civilisations co-existed in the one physical city? I don't mean two distinct areas with a wall separating them like Berlin or Jerusalem. I don't mean two sides of the same street being administered by different councils or governments. One analogy for the City in the novel would be one city populated by some people and administered by one council during the day, then everybody moves out and it's a different people and council at night. If that makes sense so far, then this City has one difference. It isn't separated by day and night. The two Cities within the City co-exist in time, but in the same geographical space (hence, the City and the City). Everybody is everywhere at the same time, but they are separate. They walk down the same streets, they drive on the same roads, but they are legally separate. They aren't allowed to look at each other or acknowledge each other's existence. Each City must act and behave as if the other City isn't there. So this is the abstract high concept. Mixing Genres Mieville explores this fantasy concept within the crime thriller genre. Some readers question whether this is the right vehicle for the concept. They feel it makes the cardinal error of mixing genres. But I think it makes sense. The Law The two different Cities are basically legal constructs. They need the law to make the separation concrete. The law sits at the interface between the two Cities and enforces their separation. Any breach has to be detected and punished by the law. Therefore, when a breach occurs in the novel, we find out the true nature of the Cities, the law and the justice system. The Corruption As usual, there is too much law and not enough justice. As you would expect, these institutions end up being corrupt, not because they are institutions, but because they are institutions established and maintained by humans for human reasons. The novel is really the story of these institutions and their corruption. The Detective and the Crime Like crime fiction, it is told through the eyes of a detective investigating a small crime, which ultimately leads to the detection of a big crime. You could almost say it is the story of the Crime and the Crime (so I will). The Tone Whether Mieville gets the tone right is a subjective issue. We don't know a lot about the back story of the characters, we don't get a lot of physical descriptions. We do get a well-constructed feel for the Kafkaesque atmosphere that defines this city. People walk its streets like automatons or ghosts, unwilling to look left or right, for fear that they will breach the separation of the two Cities. So if characters don't seem like they're human, if a reader feels that they are just cyphers, it's because the City has stripped their humanity away, it's the result of a stylistic choice (not the result of poor writing). Abstract but Powerful I admired Mieville's ability to construct these worlds and explore them credibly, while making the novel work at a metaphorical and political level. The novel could describe life in a totalitarian state, it could describe life in a separated city or nation, but it might also symbolise cultures where people co-exist, but don't acknowledge each other's existence or right to participate in institutions as equals. This could describe Christians and Jews, Christians and Muslims, whites and blacks, men and women, the rich and the poor. This differentiation exists everywhere, Mieville's genius is to explore it through a highly abstract, but powerful, metaphor. So comparisons with both Kafka and Chandler are apt. Collins St, 5pm COLOUR SPOILER ALERT I don't want to spoil the visuals of the book for you, but below is a link to a wiki article about a 1955 painting that the book evokes for me. The painting explores a similar concept as a metaphor for alienation. One warning before you view it though: Partly because of the cover, I imagined The City as a blue/grey world, the world of this painting is brown. So if you want to leave scope to choose your own colours, you might not want to visit the link until you've read the book. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collins_... ...more Mieville is the sort of author I expect and want to like, but I didn't feel the love with \"The Scar\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). This second foray into his works was far more rewarding, and my third, Embassytown, was even more so (there are some interesting parallels, too, which I've outlined in my review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). I enjoyed the concept, the wordplay, and the impossibility of categorisation: it's a detective story, but it's set in a world that is Mieville is the sort of author I expect and want to like, but I didn't feel the love with \"The Scar\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). This second foray into his works was far more rewarding, and my third, Embassytown, was even more so (there are some interesting parallels, too, which I've outlined in my review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). I enjoyed the concept, the wordplay, and the impossibility of categorisation: it's a detective story, but it's set in a world that is not exactly dystopian or futuristic or fantastic - but it isn't quite realistic either! One of the characters sums it up nicely, \"There's a series of random and implausible crises that make no sense other than if you believe the most dramatic possible shit. And there's a dead girl.\" It is self-referential in another way: a book called \" Between The City and The City\" is mentioned several times. Very meta. ;) SETTING The title relates to a divided city that operates as separate cities, but it's not like Berlin, Budapest, Belfast, Nicosia or Jerusalem because (view spoiler) [the two cities (Beszel and Ul Qoma) occupy the same geographical space. Instead, the separation is psychological and sensorial: citizens of each learn to unsee, unhear and even unsmell anything from the other city. If they don't, they invoke the vague but terrifying wrath of Breach. There is also the mythical secret place/power of Orciny. (hide spoiler) ] It is this brilliantly weird central premise that makes the book so good. If you don't know about it when you start reading it, the clues are gradually built up, but knowing it, as I did, didn't spoil my enjoyment. Ultimately, the division is maintained by consent, like the Emperor's New Clothes: \"It's not just us keeping them apart. It's everyone in Beszel and Ul Qoma... It works because you don't blink. (view spoiler) [That's why unseeing and unsensing are so vital. No one can admit it doesn't work. So if you don't admit it, it does. (hide spoiler) ] \" Mind you, there is very limited political freedom in either city (UQ is a one-party state and in Besz, dissident groups are monitored - and both cities are under the mysterious power of Breach), so the idea of consent is somewhat moot. MURDER MYSTERY & THEMES This situation creates a variety of intriguing and sometimes amusing complications and paradoxes which hamper police operations. The impetus of the story is the discovery and subsequent investigation of a woman's body, and uncertainty about which domain the crime occurred in. There are disputed zones - shades of Rumsfeld's \"known unknowns\" and even when authority is agreed, the normal difficulties of solving a crime are compounded by the complexity of the two cities. (view spoiler) [It's difficult to get witness statements from people who are used to unseeing people and things, and who are ever fearful of accidentally seeing what they should not. There are even \"Places that no one can see because they think they're in the other city\". Chasing criminals without breaching is comical, but crucial. (hide spoiler) ] \"Smuggling itself is not breach, though most breach is committed in order to smuggle.\" These issues raise all sorts of questions about the nature and power of the state and its police (one of the cities - maybe both? - allows only one political party), and particularly about the relevance of intent in determining whether something is a crime. \"Because you may not see the justice of what we do doesn't mean it's unjust\" (neither does it mean it is just). COP DRAMA TROPES I'm not really a follower of detective stories, either on the page or on screen, but Mieville tips a hat to many of the clich\u00e9s of the genre: good cop (Borlu)/bad cop (various, fluctuating, minor), the sparky relationship between partners (Borlu with Corwi and later with Dhatt), following hunches, breaking the rules for the greater good, messy love life, a few car chases and so on. The chapters are mostly short and punchy, and each ends with a revelation or cliff-hanger (or both). Yet it doesn't feel hackneyed, perhaps because the setting is so startlingly original. In fact, Mieville confronts the risk of clich\u00e9 head-on, saying of one character \"His fidelity to the clich\u00e9 transcended the necessity to communicate\". WORDPLAY AND WRITING STYLE Mieville has fun with neologisms and a few existing but esoteric words. At times he explicitly defines them when context and etymology make that unnecessary (e.g. gudcop and mectec), which is irksome, but nevertheless, some of the words are good. For example: * Grosstopically: (view spoiler) [Two locations, each in a different city, but occupying the same geographical space in other terms. (hide spoiler) ] * Topolganger: (view spoiler) [When grosstopical places look alike. (hide spoiler) ] * Alterity: (view spoiler) [Alternative, a grosstopically equivalent place, \"A Besz dweller cannot walk a few paces next door into an alter house without breach\". (hide spoiler) ] * Insiles: Sort of the opposite of exiles. * Glasnostroika: Glasnost + Perestroika, and the cities have echoes of central and eastern Europe. * Gallimaufrians are mentioned: perhaps a nod to Dr Who? * Cleavage: The reason for there being two cities - in both senses of the word: \"was it schism or conjoining\"... \"split or convergence\"? * Crosshatching: A whole new meaning to a familiar word. As in The Scar, there are a few awkward or ugly sentences that I had to reread, but far fewer. A couple of examples (for my own reference more than anything else): \"He came to UQ, from where he went to B, managed I do not know how to go between the two of them - legally I assure you - several times, and he claimed...\" Just adding a single comma would make all the difference. \"Unlike for my distance viewing of the night, up close the walls blocked off the site from watchers.\" There are others that are convoluted in a clever and amusing way, though: \"I couldn't help fail to completely unsee\"! I think my only quibble with the story-telling is the quantity of rushed explanation and exposition towards the end, rather as Goldfinger or another James Bond baddie would do. FAVOURITE QUOTES * A dead body: \"skin smooth that cold morning, unbroken by gooseflesh... like someone playing at dead insect, her limbs crooked, rocking on her spine... Her face was set in a startled strain. She was endlessly surprised by herself.\" (view spoiler) [* \"Architecture broken by alterity... The local buildings are taller... so Besz juts up semi regularly and the roof-scape is almost a machicolation... laced by the shadows of girded towers that would loom over it if they were there.\" (hide spoiler) ] * \"Those most dedicated to the perforation of the boundary... had to observe it most carefully.\" * At an archaeological site, \"Security guards, keeping safe these forgotten then remembered memories\". * \"the explosive percussion of the bullet into the wall... Architecture sprayed.\" * There is an unreal, almost supernatural quality of Breach (and their forces have a distinctive and intimidating gait): \"The soundlessness was enervating... he was a cutout of darkness, a lack... clothes as vague as my own... Their faces were without anything approaching expressions. They looked like people-shaped clay in the moments before God breathed out.\" And yet it turns out that Breach uses cameras to watch the fringes (shades of Peake's \"Titus Alone\"), when I was expecting something less tangible. * \"Students might stand, scandalously, touching distance from a foreign power, a pornography of separation.\" * A helicopter is \"percussion in the otherwise empty locked-down sky\". * \"Schroedinger's pedestrian... That gait... rootless and untethered, purposeful and without a country... He.. strode with pathological neutrality.\" DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE CITIES I didn't get hung up on which real world cities might have inspired this (I doubt there would be a simple answer). However, I was interested in the ways in which they apparently differed, the \"intense learning of cues\" required of all children (and the few tourists). \"We pick up on styles of clothing, permissible colours, ways of walking and holding oneself.\" Some colours are actually illegal in one city, and one is more diverse (view spoiler) [(UQ has more Asians, Africans and Arabs, and it has spicier food, whereas Beszel has a more potato-based diet) (hide spoiler) ] . As a reader, one has to learn these cues very gradually. Even half way through I didn't have a very clear picture of the different appearance, culture or politics, other than that (view spoiler) [UQ was somewhat richer, more technologically advanced and with better archaeological sites (hide spoiler) ] . Their languages use different alphabets and it is heretical to say they are the same, and yet they are mutually intelligible. Borlu, the hero and from whose point of view the story is told, is from Beszel, but I would rather live in UQ. MISSED A TRICK The book mentions fracturedcity.org - twice - but it just redirects to http://www.randomhouse.com/ ! GOOD BOOK TO PAIR THIS WITH I read this in the middle of reading Alistair Reynolds' \"Century Rain\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). Neither is typical of the author's works, but both are noirish detective thrillers, featuring archaeologists and set in two versions of a city, albeit a very different sort of separation. Reading one enhances enjoyment of the other. An interesting Q&A with China, here on GR: http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/5... , including references to TC&TC. ...more China Mieville is to modern fiction as The Clash was to popular music of their day: fresh, alive, vibrant, powerful, edgy, dangerous, misunderstood and by all accounts \u2013 original. The City and The City is about as original an idea, concept, theme as I can imagine\u2013 and all put together nicely into an ostensible murder mystery. While that is the tone and structure, to me the real story was the absurdist city on top of or within, or beside or related to the other city. Or whatever. Don\u2019t want to ad China Mieville is to modern fiction as The Clash was to popular music of their day: fresh, alive, vibrant, powerful, edgy, dangerous, misunderstood and by all accounts \u2013 original. The City and The City is about as original an idea, concept, theme as I can imagine\u2013 and all put together nicely into an ostensible murder mystery. While that is the tone and structure, to me the real story was the absurdist city on top of or within, or beside or related to the other city. Or whatever. Don\u2019t want to add any spoilers but a reader will be well into the book on their own before they figure it out, if they do. Working well within its own parameters, I also saw the value of the concept in terms of allegory, perhaps a message about how boundaries, affected and arbitrary, are absurd and our beliefs and reliance in them equally as outlandish. After reading Kraken , I placed the absurdist label on that writing, but not the Kafkaesque absurdity but rather the Monty Python kind. This one has the unmistakable influence of Kafka, but still with the charm and humor of Cleese, Palin and the rest of the troupe. A very good read. ...more This book has been causing thoughts since I finished it a couple of days ago. About cities, and what we see and don't see. And how those kinds of seeing are conditioned. And then something happened yesterday that was both funny and a little frightening, illustrating exactly how much I might be missing as I walk down the streets of my city. My husband and I were walking towards the local gaming store, towards the lures of Free RPG Day, talking. I would have thought that I was fully aware of my su This book has been causing thoughts since I finished it a couple of days ago. About cities, and what we see and don't see. And how those kinds of seeing are conditioned. And then something happened yesterday that was both funny and a little frightening, illustrating exactly how much I might be missing as I walk down the streets of my city. My husband and I were walking towards the local gaming store, towards the lures of Free RPG Day, talking. I would have thought that I was fully aware of my surroundings, but...apparently not. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more This was such a solid read. I listened to the audiobook which was at that 10-hour sweet spot I love. And overall the story was incredibly well-crafted and engaging. The way that Mieville blends the detective/crime fiction genre with pseudo-sci-fi elements was really ingenious. It was complex and imaginative but never too hard to follow. I would highly recommend this one to people who enjoy either crime novels or sci-fi, but with a twist. He goes beyond the expectations of both genres and deliver This was such a solid read. I listened to the audiobook which was at that 10-hour sweet spot I love. And overall the story was incredibly well-crafted and engaging. The way that Mieville blends the detective/crime fiction genre with pseudo-sci-fi elements was really ingenious. It was complex and imaginative but never too hard to follow. I would highly recommend this one to people who enjoy either crime novels or sci-fi, but with a twist. He goes beyond the expectations of both genres and delivers something with more depth, especially the sociopolitical commentary on refugees. 4/5 stars. ...more In <+++>The City & the City</+++> , China Mieville blends fantasy, sci-fi and crime fiction into one of the most interesting books I've read in a while. It's a tale of two cities set in eastern Europe. One, Beszel, is in decay; the other, Ul Qoman, is much more prosperous. The kicker is that the two cities share the same physical space and the citizens of one city are strictly forbidden from interacting with citizens of the other. Citizens of one city are prohibited from even looking at each other or in In <+++>The City & the City</+++> , China Mieville blends fantasy, sci-fi and crime fiction into one of the most interesting books I've read in a while. It's a tale of two cities set in eastern Europe. One, Beszel, is in decay; the other, Ul Qoman, is much more prosperous. The kicker is that the two cities share the same physical space and the citizens of one city are strictly forbidden from interacting with citizens of the other. Citizens of one city are prohibited from even looking at each other or into each others' cities. Should they do so accidentally, they are required to immediately look away and \"unsee\" what they have just seen. There is one legal border crossing where, with a good enough reason, a citizen of one city may legally cross into the other. To do so otherwise, or to notice something or someone in the other city without looking away, is to be in Breach, and the punishments for being in Breach are beyond severe. As the story opens, a woman is found murdered in Beszel, and Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Extreme Crime Squad is assigned to investigate. Borlu quickly discovers that the woman was actually killed in Ul Quoma and dumped in Beszel, which would be a clear case of Breach. Borlu assumes that the case will be taken away from him and that the killer or killers will be found and punished by the Breach authorities who deal with such matters. Because of a technicality, though, it turns out that the murder was not in Breach and so the case still belongs to Borlu. To investigate, he must cross over into Ul Quoma, where he is teamed with a detective named Qussim Dhatt who leads the investigation there. The two quickly discover that something much more sinister than a run-of-the-mill murder may be going on here. Tyador Borlu is, at heart, the archetypal detective with roots all the way back at least as far as Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe. He's determined to solve this case and find justice for the victim, no matter the odds and personal danger that might be involved. But he must do so in a world that neither Sam Spade, Philip Marlowe, Harry Bosch, nor any other such detective could ever have imagined. It took me a while to get into this book and to buy into the principle of the two cities, but once I did, I was completely hooked and couldn't wait for the climax. There's an awful lot going on in this story and I'm probably not smart enough to appreciate half of what Mieville is attempting to accomplish here. At one level, the book may be seen an allegory about the worlds that each of us live in and the worlds that occupy the same space but that we might prefer not to see. Think, for example, of the reaction that many people have when seeing a homeless person shuffling down the street, pushing his or her liberated grocery cart full of possessions along the sidewalk. The tendency we often have is to look away, or to \"unsee\" the person, and to proceed about our business as if problems like homelessness didn't exist in our world. This is a very interesting and stimulating book, one that the reader will be left thinking about for a long time. ...more City & City | Panfilocastaldi - http://ow.ly/4n4gfS Era all\u00ed, en el sombreado de intersecci\u00f3n de l\u00edneas, donde los estudiantes pod\u00edan quedarse, escandalosamente, a un palmo de distancia de una autoridad extranjera, una pornograf\u00eda de separaci\u00f3n. ... No debe ser tarea f\u00e1cil construir una arqueolog\u00eda tan compleja como la urdida por China Mi\u00e9ville. Mundos err\u00e1ticos y escindidos que cohabitan una misma geograf\u00eda urbana, imposible y dislocada. Desdoblamientos de paisaje, de idiomas, de seres que de City & City | Panfilocastaldi - http://ow.ly/4n4gfS Era all\u00ed, en el sombreado de intersecci\u00f3n de l\u00edneas, donde los estudiantes pod\u00edan quedarse, escandalosamente, a un palmo de distancia de una autoridad extranjera, una pornograf\u00eda de separaci\u00f3n. ... No debe ser tarea f\u00e1cil construir una arqueolog\u00eda tan compleja como la urdida por China Mi\u00e9ville. Mundos err\u00e1ticos y escindidos que cohabitan una misma geograf\u00eda urbana, imposible y dislocada. Desdoblamientos de paisaje, de idiomas, de seres que deambulan con distintos niveles de evoluci\u00f3n, de pensamiento. Lugares fragmentarios pero necesariamente imbricados, fundidos conforme a leyes oscuras e ininteligibles. Brechas, tajos, aritm\u00e9ticas de la improbabilidad. Es una pena que el autor no profundice con m\u00e1s ah\u00ednco en sus personajes: Tyador Borl\u00fa, Qussim Dhatt, Lizbyet Corwi... Sus enigmas y motivaciones, sus historias personales a lo largo y ancho de las calles de Bes\u017ael y Ul Qoma. Novela arriesgada, s\u00f3lidamente inconsistente, una cartograf\u00eda inveros\u00edmil y valiente, f\u00e1bula sobre el origen del mundo, de los mundos, sobre la multiplicidad de escenarios y la disgregaci\u00f3n, met\u00e1fora de las fracturas y de las delgadas l\u00edneas \u00edntimas y secretas de cada individuo, de cada ciudad. ...more Ugh, I feel like such a jerk. This book has received such praise, so my expecations were pretty high. I had read more than my fair share of excellent reviews, so I felt I was in for a treat. I really tried to like this - I really did. I thought the premise was absolutely brilliant. I just felt like it was either his prose or just the way the story itself came together that I didn't \"get\". I've yet to read a book that made me feel so confused. Please don't hate me goodreaders! I tried, I really did Ugh, I feel like such a jerk. This book has received such praise, so my expecations were pretty high. I had read more than my fair share of excellent reviews, so I felt I was in for a treat. I really tried to like this - I really did. I thought the premise was absolutely brilliant. I just felt like it was either his prose or just the way the story itself came together that I didn't \"get\". I've yet to read a book that made me feel so confused. Please don't hate me goodreaders! I tried, I really did. ...more My first reread of The City The City was an experience as convoluted as the grosstopography of Beszel and Ul Qoma. A chapter read, four chapters listened to; three chapters read, two chapters listened to; and on. Teaching this book in a town in a different province than the town I live in, across a straight, over a bridge (my adopted country's longest, the adopted country that plays such an important role in the piece, which is itself a nation sandwiched between nations in our always); a soccer My first reread of The City The City was an experience as convoluted as the grosstopography of Beszel and Ul Qoma. A chapter read, four chapters listened to; three chapters read, two chapters listened to; and on. Teaching this book in a town in a different province than the town I live in, across a straight, over a bridge (my adopted country's longest, the adopted country that plays such an important role in the piece, which is itself a nation sandwiched between nations in our always); a soccer game was played with four teams and two balls, simultaneously filling the same grosstopography, unseeing each other, unseeing the other game, but there was I in net, in perpetual Breach, defending one goal from two teams, and my fellows from Breach were busy removing those who Breached during play. And I found myself loving the mystery of the book then thinking it was too weak then loving it all over again when the twist I'd forgotten reminded me of Mi\u00e9ville 's genius and why the mystery really does work. And I found myself loving and loving and loving the alterity of the spaces that Tyador and Corwi and Dhatt navigated with their unseeing, unhearing, unknowing senses as they were forced to see and hear and know. The City and the City is a masterpiece. One hundred years from now this book, and others of Mi\u00e9ville 's ouevre will be canon. He's the first writer I've discovered, and long before others had, that I can say that about. And one of the few of the future canon with whom I am contemporary. I am lucky to be reading him now, in his pomp, the way little boys were lucky to see Wayne Gretzky play hockey live. I will never see Mi\u00e9ville 's like again. ...more You don\u2019t have to be crazy to read this book, but it helps. Nah, I jest. The basic idea of this book is not hard to understand, but it is a springboard to an extraordinary level of weirdness. The book is set in two cities that occupy the same geographical space. Imagine two cities existing side by side and then whisk them so that they are all jumbled up. That is one way of looking at the setting. The citizens of Besel* and Ul Qoma are not permitted to interact with the citizens, objects, or groun You don\u2019t have to be crazy to read this book, but it helps. Nah, I jest. The basic idea of this book is not hard to understand, but it is a springboard to an extraordinary level of weirdness. The book is set in two cities that occupy the same geographical space. Imagine two cities existing side by side and then whisk them so that they are all jumbled up. That is one way of looking at the setting. The citizens of Besel* and Ul Qoma are not permitted to interact with the citizens, objects, or ground space of the other city. They are not even allowed to sense them except to avoid a collision. Of course actual seeing and hearing cannot be helped but they have to \u201cunsee\u201d, \u201cunhear\u201d, \u201cunsmell\u201d etc., a kind of mandatory constant denial. The main story is basically a murder mystery where a body of a \u201cJane Doe\u201d is found and it is the job of a police detective to find her killer. It turns out that both cities are involved and maybe even a third secret city also occupying the same location. The world of The City & The City is actually Earth apparently in the present day with references to the internet, MS Windows and Tom Hanks movies to vaguely indicate the time period. The two city-states are located in what appears to be Eastern Europe. Usually, I try to avoid reading a book\u2019s synopsis before I start reading it. I enjoy discovering the plot, the setting and characters as I read, but as far as The City & The City is concerned this may not be such a good idea, Mi\u00e9ville does not start the narrative with any kind of exposition to set the scene. The readers are pretty much left to immediately fend for themselves from the first page. This is not really a problem if you already have a little prior knowledge of the very odd setting from a summary. Reading this book is not a walk in the park, China Mi\u00e9ville made an effort to create such a bizarre world and culture for you to explore and some exertion is expected from the reader. As can be expected of any China Mi\u00e9ville book the writing is excellent, the characters are interesting (though take a little getting used to) and a little dry humour is scattered in several places. The climax is mind bendingly imaginative and the ending is rather poignant. The City & The City defies simple categorization though \u201cspeculative fiction\u201d is the most suitable as it is a very broad term that encompasses both science fiction and fantasy, and anything else that falls in between (maybe the fiction & the fiction?). This review is of a reread and it made me realize that the major disadvantage of rereading a whodunit is that I already know who did it as soon as the character\u2019s name is mentioned in the book, fortunately, the why of it, in this case, is fairly complicated and has to be rediscovered. More importantly The City & The City has much more to offer than a conventional crime fiction novel. This is not a breezy read, but it is a book that I would like to recommend to everybody; give the ol\u2019 little grey cells a nice workout, and while it is challenging it is not overly formidable and certainly an enriching experience for the mind. *The name of the Besel city seems to be spelled differently in some editions. ________________________________ Note: I just realised that I have to do some \"unseeing\" all the time when I am typing on my English/Thai keyboard: When I am typing in one language I have to \"unsee\" the alphabets of the other language. It is very disorienting when I switch from typing in one language to another. Living in either Besel or Ul Qoma would quickly drive me insane. ...more This book kind of makes my head hurt. Unlike the two previous novels I've read by Mieville, this one takes his outlandish and strange and doesn't put them into their own world, but into ours. Somewhere in our world there are two Cities, they are neighbors to one another and passage between them is strictly monitored and enforced. These two cities are sort of rivals and don't really like each other much, and they actually occupy pretty much the exact same geographical space as one another. The pe This book kind of makes my head hurt. Unlike the two previous novels I've read by Mieville, this one takes his outlandish and strange and doesn't put them into their own world, but into ours. Somewhere in our world there are two Cities, they are neighbors to one another and passage between them is strictly monitored and enforced. These two cities are sort of rivals and don't really like each other much, and they actually occupy pretty much the exact same geographical space as one another. The people in the two cities go about their lives seeing their own city and the people and events of that city, while unseeing what is happening in the other city. Can you see why this hurts the head a little bit? Mieville populates the cities with enough real references to give this whole book the feeling that maybe this place really could exist. Some of the people listen to i-pods, a professor states that one of her student's views are too Derrida and Zizek for her, etc. Trying to wrap ones head around the philosophical problems of a city existing this way is difficult, but it's kind of fun to try to do it. What this is all supposed to 'mean' I'm not quite sure. I have a feeling there is some deeper subtext that I'm not quite grasping about the relationship between the two cities, their ways of life and how it would relate to our world, but I haven't been able to really put my finger on what Mieville is aiming at. I feels like it is there though, just sort of stuck in 'the breach'. Philosophically interesting, but as a murder mystery it doesn't really work all so well. As a crime novel it kind of works I guess, but as a mystery there isn't enough information given to the reader to play sleuth while reading the book. The whole reality of the two cities isn't explained enough till near the end of the book for the reader to fully grasp what is going on. I don't know if that's an important part of being a mystery novel, that the reader be able to guess who did what while reading it, but in this book too much is not given, and key characters may or may not appear until the end of the book to alter what really happened. I thought it was a fun read, but I didn't like it nearly as much as Pidero Street Station or The Scar . ...more I think that this is the absolute worst choice for someone who\u2019s never read China Mieville. Like me. All I have to say is: it\u2019s a good thing that I have an endless store of patience and I like being confused. In audiobook terms, it took eight miles, three loads of laundry, four bathrooms, and a huge batch of vegetable korma for me to start liking this book. My interest was sparked by his creative, highly detailed world building, and my brain was completely engaged by the dozens of philosophical I think that this is the absolute worst choice for someone who\u2019s never read China Mieville. Like me. All I have to say is: it\u2019s a good thing that I have an endless store of patience and I like being confused. In audiobook terms, it took eight miles, three loads of laundry, four bathrooms, and a huge batch of vegetable korma for me to start liking this book. My interest was sparked by his creative, highly detailed world building, and my brain was completely engaged by the dozens of philosophical tangents that this world initiated in me. Oh, and there\u2019s also a murder mystery, but that feels more like window dressing for some Very Big Ideas. This book begins like so many other murder mysteries \u2013 with a young, beautiful, dead girl in an alley. Of course everyone assumes that she\u2019s a prostitute, and of course, she ends up having a much larger story to tell. Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Beszel Extreme Crime Squad is one of the first to arrive at the scene. He soon begins to suspect that the murder is a precursor to a much more significant crime: breach. In Beszel, the people are conditioned from childhood to \u201cunsee\u201d and not perceive in any way the people of Ul Qoma, a city which occupies some of the same geographic space as Beszel and is distinguished only by the learned habits of the citizens and the architecture and language endemic to each area. To see, acknowledge, or cross over into Ul Qoma from Beszel is a taboo \u2013 the severest of crimes, policed by a shadowy and seemingly all powerful force named for the crime itself. But when it is revealed that breach has in fact not taken place, Inspector Borlu must investigate the murder, which necessitates a journey through Beszel, Ul Qoma, and all the places in between. Somewhere around halfway through this book, the foreground of the murder mystery faded for me and the backdrop of the cities took center stage. This book made me think about the ways that we all define ourselves and our homes, and how they have very little to do with geographic location. It made me think about all of the social constructs and taboos that aren\u2019t in place because of logic or natural inclination, but because of generations of training and conditioning. It made me think about how easy it is to see the absurdity of these behaviors as an outsider, but how impossible it is to see them from the inside. It made me think about revolution: how complicity and pack mentality can keep a belief in place, but how minds are inevitably opened and changed one at a time. It made me think about how some people go out looking to have their beliefs undermined and others hold violently to what they have, but most of us fall into neither category. And this book made me think about how lonely and debilitating it can be to have even the most illogical of beliefs dissolved away. Once your eyes are opened, you can never go back to the way you were. So yeah, with all of these thoughts swimming around in my head (and really, I\u2019m pretty sure that I didn\u2019t even scratch the surface of this thing), it\u2019s easy to understand why I found the murder plot and even the main character to be a bit flat. So, if you are new to China Mieville, I would suggest starting somewhere else (I\u2019ve already checked out Perdido Street Station and Un Lun Dun to attempt a catch-up) and if you already love China Mieville, then you will probably get way more out of this book than I did! I highly recommend it for current fans, or people who like to be thrown in the deep end. Perfect Musical Pairing Radiohead \u2013 Little by Little If a hypothetical cave-dwelling friend of mind had never heard anything from Radiohead, and wanted an introduction, I would never give her the latest album. For Radiohead fans, The King of Limbs is another complex, haunting work of genius. But I can see how the uninitiated might find it dense and strange. This song speaks to the nature of growth and change: it must be accomplished in small steps, and we must not be afraid to take them. The lyrics also relate to the way that this book grew on me \u2013 little by little. Also seen on The Readventurer . ...more For all its police procedural framework, the genre The City and the City reminds me most of is Golden Age SF. This is odd because there is no science involved in this. However, The City and the City does what Golden Age SF did: it takes a \"what if\u2026\" and riffs on it as far as the author can logically take it. What if \u2026 you had a planet where night only came once every thousand years (\"Nightfall\", Isaac Asimov), robots could be implanted with memories (\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep\", Philip For all its police procedural framework, the genre The City and the City reminds me most of is Golden Age SF. This is odd because there is no science involved in this. However, The City and the City does what Golden Age SF did: it takes a \"what if\u2026\" and riffs on it as far as the author can logically take it. What if \u2026 you had a planet where night only came once every thousand years (\"Nightfall\", Isaac Asimov), robots could be implanted with memories (\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep\", Philip K Dick), aliens came to visit and fixed all of our problems ( Childhood's End , Arthur C Clarke), two countries shared the same physical space but the polity of each pretended the other was not there\u2026 That's Mi\u00e9ville's \"what if\", and he gleefully explores every last street, alleyway, and path it leads down: When an Ul Qoman stumbles into a Bes, each in their own city; if an Ul Qoman's dog runs up and sniffs a Bes passerby; a window broken in Ul Qoma that leaves glass in the path of Bes pedestrians \u2013 in all cases the Bes (or Ul Qomans, in the converse circumstances) avoid the foreign difficulty as best they can without acknowledging it. Touch it if they must, though not is better. Such polite stoic unsensing is the form for dealing with protubs \u2013 that is the Bes for those protuberances from the other city. To grow up in this environment where not seeing what is in front you, not hearing what is next to you, is just everyday life necessitates training the brain to assiduously screen out, to actually subtract from its perception what one is not supposed to see, hear, smell, or feel. And yet one must nevertheless remain just sufficiently aware of these other existences so that you literally do not crash into them. Tourists and immigrants must be trained in this process so that they do not breach these intangible but nevertheless very real borders. In that sense, it's very very well done. There is an amazing chase sequence where chaser and chased are on what is in physical space the same street but in juridical space two entirely different jurisdictions. Both must, to avoid calling the attention of the uber-security force Breach, pretend that each is not reacting to the other while actually doing so: I jumped off the roof of the car and walked quickly after the murderer\u2026. I kept my eyes not on him but looking at some spot or other in Ul Qoma that put him in my field of vision. I tracked him without focusing, just legally. \u2026 The man must have heard the sound of my step. I had come within a few metres when he turned. His eyes widened in astonishment at the sight of me, which, careful even then, he did not hold. He registered me. He looked back into Besel and sped up, trotting diagonally away toward ErmannStr\u00e1z \u2026 This was not, could not be, a chase. It was only two accelerations. The hows and whys of the crimes committed and their eventual resolution are extrapolated logically from this concept of space that is at once shared but separate. As I said, it is very well done. I liked it. However, I did not love it. For all of its cleverness (and I do so love clever), it was only that, an extended albeit very clever \"what if\". The hows, wherefores, and whys of the separate-but-together never added up to more than that. Oh, Mi\u00e9ville gives us the knowing \"aren't I clever\" wink-wink-nudge-nudge from time to time: [The policing conference, \"Policing Split Cities\"] had sessions on Budapest and Jerusalem and Berlin, and Besel and Ul Qoma. Canada makes a showing in a sort of barely acknowledged nod to its Anglo-/Franco-heritage. Way at the back, unmentioned but surely there is the Christian/Muslim divide in Central Europe. The one separation that he doesn't mention but which, given his leftist credentials, one imagines must have been on his mind is the rich-poor divide: our shameful blindness to the poor, the homeless, and the marginal; the way cleaning staff and migrant workers (especially black market migrant workers) are invisible to us. Other knowing conspiratorial winks and nudges abound: The existence of Breach, a shadowy force that enforces the maintenance of Bes-Ul Qoma borders, is his nod to the secret police. Indeed its presence derives much of its sinisterness by suggestion only: from associations we make from the cities' Central European flavour. There is also the possible presence of a third city, an ur-city as it were that is believed to manipulate everyone. Again, Mi\u00e9ville is winking at our stories of secret invisible cabals, the Masons, Illuminati, and other puppet masters of conspiracy theories. These references, while giving us that warm fuzzy feeling of the chummily complicit, are never woven sufficiently into the narrative or the concept of these separated-at-birth countries to make it something more. I could posit that given the slightly anti-climatic ending and the eventual banality of the Big Bad that this is precisely his point. Could be, but if it is he's not done enough work to give that conclusion enough force or life. As with the other references, it's there but at Bes mostly unseen and, sadly therefore, unfelt. ...more January 2009 (Before) Don't want to sound shallow, but...that shade of blue (referring to this cover ) really doesn't make me think of China Mi\u00e9ville. The UK editon looks much better. (Although it does kinda grow on you, so I'll stop complaining) --- June 2009 (First) Obvious fact #1: China Mi\u00e9ville likes cities. A lot. Urban geography, borders and boundaries, the politics and character of city-states that exist on rails, on ships, beneath towering bones. Here, Mi\u00e9ville gives us the cities of Bes\u017ael a January 2009 (Before) Don't want to sound shallow, but...that shade of blue (referring to this cover ) really doesn't make me think of China Mi\u00e9ville. The UK editon looks much better. (Although it does kinda grow on you, so I'll stop complaining) --- June 2009 (First) Obvious fact #1: China Mi\u00e9ville likes cities. A lot. Urban geography, borders and boundaries, the politics and character of city-states that exist on rails, on ships, beneath towering bones. Here, Mi\u00e9ville gives us the cities of Bes\u017ael and Ul Qoma, two fantastically different Eastern European urban nations whose borders...overlap. Geographically close but an entire country apart, the citizens of both cities spend their lives ignoring and unseeing their neighbors under threat of Breach. So when Inspector Tyador Borlu of Bes\u017ael's Extreme Crime Squad investigates a murder that may invoke Breach--the body was found in Bes\u017ael but the murder occurred in Ul Qoma--he must embark on a strange, metaphysical journey to solve the case. Mi\u00e9ville's latest is a fascinating novel, a fantastic blend of pulp fiction, mystery, and noir. However, the characters are barely fleshed out (There is very little to learn about Borlu and his colleagues) and as a mystery The City & the City falls slightly short: the clues are spread thin, and the end revelation a bit of a stretch. But the setting Mi\u00e9ville presents, the world of the city and the city, more than makes up for any of its problems. I wouldn't compare it to any of the Bas-lag Books, but TC&tC is a great addition to China Mi\u00e9ville's work. --- March 2011 (Second) Tum te tum. Nothing to see here, folks. Just pretending I don't have several hundred unread books staring at me from the shelves. Tum te tum, tum te tum. I'll be honest: The first time I read The City & the City back in May '09, I was felt slightly underwhelmed. It was good, but not that great. Still, I gave it four stars (mostly because I was too self-conscious to give it three) and sent it on its way. But then it started winning awards--World Fantasy Award, Arthur C. Clarke Award, Locus, the Hugo (with Bacigalupi), others--and I kept thinking really? Another one? But it's not--it wasn't--it was just--oh, heck, maybe I should try it again... So, the second time around? Yep, it's good. TC&tC is a great novel, and a great work by Mi\u00e9ville. Totally solid. Of course, I'm too lazy to elaborate on that, so my original review still stands. ETA: And it's a good thing, too, because the internet went wonky and I lost my original not-review. So I'm glad I was too lazy to write anything more. You hear me? Glad! --- January 2013 (Third) I think we've been spoiled, just a bit. China's coddled us. ( Coddled , Ceridwen. Not cuddled, sorry.) See, since The City & the City came out in 2009, we've had a book a year from Mr. Mi\u00e9ville. First this, then Kraken a year later, then Embassytown in 2011, and Railsea just last year. It's a good run, isn't it? Not many of our favorite authors can do the bookayear dance. So after Railsea came out, we've all been looking ahead. Getting antsy. Full of antici pation about what China's next book'll be. 'Cause, y'know, he's probably written something else, right? There'll be something new out in 2013, right? Right? Wrong. China Mi\u00e9ville doesn't have a new book for us this year--Joel confirmed it --and so, for the first time in a long time, we don't have any New Weird goodies to look forward to. Or any other books, for that matter. We might as well just log off Goodreads for the rest of the year and hope 2014 brings us something, because really, what are we gonna do without our annual dose of China M.? It's heartbreaking. Or not. We'll survive. We did before, those of us who remember Ye Olde Days when all China had written were King Rat and the Bas-Lag books. Those were the days, weren't they? 2004/05, Iron Council was still crisp and new and omigodnottheendPLEASE, and we didn't really know what was on the horizon, did we? There was his story collection Looking for Jake in '05, but that didn't register much, so we waited. Un Lun Dun came two years later and it was good (so I hear), and then we had to wait again. There were rumors of a book called Kraken as early as 2007, maybe earlier--but facts were few and speculation was the only thing we had, so we waited. And waited. And then, finally, we got it: TC&tC, followed by the others, one per year. And now we're waiting again. No news, no nothin'. What's next for China? We can only guess right now. So let's guess! More short stories? Nah--he's already given us a few, \"The Rope Is the World\" and \"Covehithe\" , so far. More YA? No--that was Railsea . So those two genres are accounted for, and we're probably due another novel. Bas-Lag? Oh, I wish--but unlikely. Something new? That would be cool. A sequel to something? Hmm. Maybe a return to Bes\u017ael and Ul Qoma? Maybe. But China likes to play around with genre, and we're not going to get another detective novel. Not another murder mystery. No more intigue. That wouldn't be fun--and TC&tC was invisibly subtitled \"The Last Inspector Borl\u00fa mystery, so we're out that. But Borl\u00fa has a new job, you know, with certain new responsibilities, and that gives China a chance to further explore the city and the city and the breach that maintains them both. But what kind of story could he tell, if not a mystery? What genre could China play with this time? I'm thinking zombies. I think China Mi\u00e9ville should write a zombie novel set in Bes\u017ael and Ul Qoma. It would be awesome. I mean, yeah, zombies are getting old. Zombie novels are dead, and they keep coming back, and every time you think you've seen the last of 'em another shuffles out of the shadows. So what could China Mi\u00e9ville do with zombies? Ok, dumb question--he'd do some awesome things--but could he do some awesome things with The City & the City of Zombies? I think so. I mean, zombie uprisings are hard enough to deal with, when you're living in ordinary geography. But zombies in Bes\u017ael or Ul Qoma, one city or the other, that's a different story. How do you deal with a zombie uprising across strange borders? Can you unsee a horde of undead that are eating the citizens of your sister city? Do zombies Breach? Do they obey the borders? Which is worse? I have my own thoughts, and I'm sure you do as well. But I want to see what China Mi\u00e9ville has to say about it. ...more One thing I'm noticing in my recent Mieville binge is that China likes his cities. They are as much a character as the protagonists of his weird imagination. They have their own unique personalities, differing from book to book whether we're talking about dark and dirty New Crobuzon in Perdido Street Station or the pirate city, Armada in The Scar or Embassytown on an alien planet in Embassytown . In The City & the City we are treated to not one but two cities - or maybe it's one city with mul One thing I'm noticing in my recent Mieville binge is that China likes his cities. They are as much a character as the protagonists of his weird imagination. They have their own unique personalities, differing from book to book whether we're talking about dark and dirty New Crobuzon in Perdido Street Station or the pirate city, Armada in The Scar or Embassytown on an alien planet in Embassytown . In The City & the City we are treated to not one but two cities - or maybe it's one city with multiple personality disorder? And like the title of the book indicates, the central weird idea is even more focused on the cities themselves. In this story, Mieville seems to have restrained himself somewhat to produce a tale set in the \"real world,\" albeit a slightly alternate one to include our fictional cities. If you were to sum up the story you might describe it as a noir-ish police procedural. There's no magic, no human/animal/machine hybrids. Instead, Mieville restricts his imagination to the central concept of cities themselves, to create a metaphor or parable of cities all over the world where there is the city we know, and then there is the other city we know is there but choose to \"unsee.\" This unseen city might be the one the homeless guy begging on the busy street corner lives in - a \"spectre\" of another country in famine which we pass by with our arms filled with groceries. Or it may be the city where the lonely oldy across the road lives in - the one who you never see or hear about till the blue lights wake you up in the middle of the night to carry out the corpse that's remained unclaimed for the last 3 weeks...or months. Again, the plot was nothing special - serving only to frame a central imagined concept that is not quite fantasy, not quite scifi, but still the weird imaginings of the mind that is China Mieville. If you aren't a fan of some of Mieville's more outlandish creatures or if you think Mieville's creations outright ridiculous, you may consider giving this book a shot. You still get a dose of Mieville's wonderful imagination without the peripheral \"over the top\" fantasy come horror weirdness. I'm giving this one 4 stars. ...more First off, China Mieville is very brainy and gives good vocabulary. I can see why Ceridwen is dating him as a literary boyfriend. The plot revolves around a detective investigating a murder in a city shared by two distinct nations. One society, Ul-Ooma, seems to be Turkish, Middle Eastern, Chinese, or North African. The other society, Besel, seems gray, depressive, and borrows words that are vaguely slavic. So, maybe Besel is council estate England and Bulgaria. The two cultures share exactly the First off, China Mieville is very brainy and gives good vocabulary. I can see why Ceridwen is dating him as a literary boyfriend. The plot revolves around a detective investigating a murder in a city shared by two distinct nations. One society, Ul-Ooma, seems to be Turkish, Middle Eastern, Chinese, or North African. The other society, Besel, seems gray, depressive, and borrows words that are vaguely slavic. So, maybe Besel is council estate England and Bulgaria. The two cultures share exactly the same space, but each culture deliberately, and under threat, pretends that it is a solo sovereign nation that does not share the same space. Does the threat come from aliens? Shadow societies? Invisible espionage operatives? Secret police? Giant squinty chickens? Read and find out. The dual city concept is clever in its construction, and the reason I started this as my first Mieville. I liked his multi-use and multicultural spaces, and how the shared-but-not-shared sense of alienation & diversity in Mieville's city exaggerates the way diverse communities settle within an urban mosaic. Mieville writes as if Chinatown and Little Italy shared the exact same, cramped neighborhood, and the Chinese and Italians spend the bulk of their respective free-time studiously pretending the other culture does not exist under threat of disappearance. However, the social mannerisms of both peoples having to \"unsee the other\" become tedious rather quickly. Unseeing becomes a game of manners that has to be replayed ad absurdum. Unseeing is supposed to seem tedious; but it happens so often, it bogs down the plot. Mieville could have shaved 50 pages with a short treatise on how tiresome unseeing is for these poor souls, instead of having them do it in each paragraph like an obsessive tic. I realize it was supposed to be an obsessive tic, but now I'm reading other books without a similar tic and their lack of needlessly ritualistic repetition bothers me. Like a faraway, all-day car alarm suddenly silenced BOTHERS me. Mieville's larger point, if he has one, is that social and political boundaries can be taken too far, and often are, where national sovereignty and immigration are concerned, but the plot requires that this is proved often and heavily. It is also clear where Mieville's political sympathy lies. He loves the Left, goths, academics, and clever nerds like himself. He tries to be objective, but despite his clever handling of some of the book's mysteries, he plays favorites and his polarized characters conform mostly to stereotype. I admire the attempt to blend policier and sci-fi in a seamless and clever way (Blade Runner [director's cut], the crowning example of this blend, has been my favorite film since before I understood that the film was a genre blend). The book is a policier, which is characterized by data collection, polarizations, and moral vacuums. Typically, a detective-protagonist (and readers) can't possibly put the data together into a coherent theory of the case, until the protagonist stumbles upon a key piece of data that reshuffles the detective's (and the readers') interpretation of the data and events. This is where Mieville stumbles. Late in the book, on a single page, the detective posits a theory, pulls out several premises that do not exist apart from the detective speaking them outloud. Then he frantically runs through the last 35 pages of the book. BLAMMO! Case finished. There is no reinterpretation. The data fits, but my gripe is that the detective didn't stumble on new data; he just spoke \"AHA! These things happened, because I just said them into the plot of the book!\" It reminded me of watching Sunshine by Danny Boyle. Theoretically, that should be a good film. Sunshine is high tech, big budget, pretty, Danny Boyle, sci-fi, and yet it sucks because the plotting takes a sharp genre turn and ends up lame. Mieville gets 3 stars for the structure, the exploration of dual sovereignty, the absurdism of enforced customs, and for keeping me interested enough to finish. But he needs to work on his policier plotting. The obsessive unseeing tic plagued the entire book, but having the theory of the case portion flubbed felt like watching a ship in a sealed bottle spontaneously collapse. The problem with this book is the chief problem with being clever. If you aren't clever, maybe you can still do one thing well. Your task well performed meets expectations and makes someone happy. If you are clever, and you attempt to do many things at once, people are only happy if you do each thing well. You up the ante by taking on more and still have to pull off each task well in order to satisfy people. Being clever only raises expectations to meet the same response. ...more 6/25/2016 - Reread for UC Book Club June 2016 selection. For me the brilliance of this book isn't the plot or the characters, many of whom are types and trophes. It is the idea of two cities in the same place, because it is in many ways so true. Most cities have at least two faces. In this book, the face has two cities. Mieville also seems to be drawing the Watch series (ie Night Watch ) with a concept, but that also seems to be a debate about justice. It is interesting to re-read this during the w 6/25/2016 - Reread for UC Book Club June 2016 selection. For me the brilliance of this book isn't the plot or the characters, many of whom are types and trophes. It is the idea of two cities in the same place, because it is in many ways so true. Most cities have at least two faces. In this book, the face has two cities. Mieville also seems to be drawing the Watch series (ie Night Watch ) with a concept, but that also seems to be a debate about justice. It is interesting to re-read this during the whole Brexit vote. Old Review I had a lukewarm response to Mieville until I read Un Lun Dun . Prior to Un Lun Dun , I had read Perdido Street Station and The Scar . I enjoyed them, but they didn't really knock my socks off. Un Lun Dun I enjoyed more. I picked up this book on the strength of Un Lun Dun , and due to the fact that one of the groups I belong to is reading it. Some people I know think that science fiction and fantasy are \"pulp\" fiction. Just stories that don't say much or comment on anything. Usually, the people I know who say things like this read Salman Rushdie or Atwood, Margaret , so I get confused by their statements. While it is true that some fantasy and SF is no more than escapist literature (and there is nothing wrong with that), much of it pushes boundaries or transcends escapist literature. It is no accident that some of the first real books that showcased homosexual relationships were in the fantasy and SF genre. Books like Benighted can make comments on race. Books like The City & The City can make comments one where and how we live. It took me about 60 pages to really get into the story, 60 pages to realize consciously what I think I realized subconsciously. The conceit behind the book is that two cities, Beszel and Ul Qoma share space. This isn't East and West Berlin, though there are references to such cities. But two different cities inhibiting the same space and time. Residents of each city are taught to \"unsee\", that is to not acknowledge when they see something or someone that is technically in the other city. To do so or to pass illegally between the cities is called a Breach and is punishable. The exact place of the cities isn't really clear. It is somewhere in Eastern Europe, maybe near or in Turkey. Both cities have harsh censorship codes, and one city (Beszel) is poorer and the other (Ul Qoma) is richer. It seemed to me, 60 pages in, that Mieville is playing with an idea. Isn't every city like Ul Qoma and Beszel? I live in Philadelphia, and a couple years back we had a very high murder rate in the city, more murders than days in the year. At one point, an idea was floated that the PA National Guard should come into the city to help the police. The section of the city where I live is relatively safe. If a murder happens, it is unusual for this neighborhood. Muggings, not unusual; but murder, yes. When the National Guard idea was mentioned, it became a topic of discussion among us morning dog walkers in the park. Most of the people, all of whom live in the neighborhood, were against the idea. It takes away city sovereignty, they said. Why do we need them, the dog walkers questioned. However, my students, many of whom live in an area of the city where there is a high murder rate and half of whom have lost family or friends to violence, thought much differently. My students were all for the National Guard coming into the city. They couldn't even let their children walk down the sidewalk or play outside. Yet my students and my friendly dog walkers all live in the same city. In fact, some lived within ten blocks of each other. Residents in nice neighborhoods want to forget, or don't know, that outside the neighborhood things are different. Every city has places, those \"bad\" places or that sub-culture the law abiding middle class citizens don't want to see. That place we \"unsee\" like the characters in The City & The City unsee. We only see such things when we are confronted with them on news, or even more commonly in works by people such as Elijah Anderson or David Simon . We see it when we watch THe Corner or The Wire , for instance. (And perhaps because The Wire forces us to see it that was why it was, undeservedly, the lowest rated show on HBO). We \"unsee' the drug dealers in the park or the homeless person outside the Wawa, don't we? In The City & The City one of the sub-plots is that a group of residents of both cities believe that the two cities should become one. Even that appears in real cities. In my section of Philadelphia, there is a \"merry war\" about whether to call it West Philly or University City. Stickers that read \"University City is a marketing slogan\" get put on telephone poles. Sometimes they get put on telephone poles located in Southwest Philly; something that annoys my friend who teaches Urban Studies. West Philly sees itself as being co-operated by the local Universities who have money. The same idea is one that Mieville touches upon. This isn't to say that the novel is an allegory. It's not, or if it was intended to be one, it's badly done. In the course of solving a mystery that involves two slightly magical cities, Mieville touches on ideas and concerns that most big cities have. This is wonderful and brilliant. It's even timely. It shows readers what good fantasy is all about. And that is, using fantasy to show us something about ourselves. Isn\u2019t that, in part, why we read, so we can understand? ...more This was my third time reading this and I'm amazed at how much I loved it again . It is such a cool book. It's like a crime novel mixed with sci-fi/fantasy/alt-history or whatever you want to call it elements. I've fallen out on the sci-fi side the prior two times but this time around I can see that it fits magical realism. Or urban fantasy. Really, it can kind of fit in quite a few subgenres. When a body is discovered Inspector Tyador Borlu is the detective assigned to investigate the crime. Shor This was my third time reading this and I'm amazed at how much I loved it again . It is such a cool book. It's like a crime novel mixed with sci-fi/fantasy/alt-history or whatever you want to call it elements. I've fallen out on the sci-fi side the prior two times but this time around I can see that it fits magical realism. Or urban fantasy. Really, it can kind of fit in quite a few subgenres. When a body is discovered Inspector Tyador Borlu is the detective assigned to investigate the crime. Shortly after he arrives he sees a woman across the street, realizes she isn't there, and \"unsees\" her. Thus begins the dual mysteries of who killed the murdered woman and what exactly is up with this strange world. I was worried that this wouldn't live up to how much I loved it the first two times. It is a bit slow getting started but once the pace picks up it really moves and then it gathers momentum at a breakneck pace. It's really such a phenomenal novel and is still my favorite Mi\u00e9ville book. I'm glad I have a copy that will resist wear because I will read this many times. ...more Urban Recall I read this almost 12 months ago, which makes it difficult to recall and recount the tone of the writing. However, I would like to make some general comments about the novel. An Abstract High Concept Novel In one sense, it is an abstract high concept novel. What does this mean? It's high concept in the sense that it takes a basic concept and explores it in detail. And it doesn't stray very far away from that concept. It's not \"Snakes on a Plane\". It's far more abstract than that. The C Urban Recall I read this almost 12 months ago, which makes it difficult to recall and recount the tone of the writing. However, I would like to make some general comments about the novel. An Abstract High Concept Novel In one sense, it is an abstract high concept novel. What does this mean? It's high concept in the sense that it takes a basic concept and explores it in detail. And it doesn't stray very far away from that concept. It's not \"Snakes on a Plane\". It's far more abstract than that. The Concept The concept is basically: what if two cities and cultures or civilisations co-existed in the one physical city? I don't mean two distinct areas with a wall separating them like Berlin or Jerusalem. I don't mean two sides of the same street being administered by different councils or governments. One analogy for the City in the novel would be one city populated by some people and administered by one council during the day, then everybody moves out and it's a different people and council at night. If that makes sense so far, then this City has one difference. It isn't separated by day and night. The two Cities within the City co-exist in time, but in the same geographical space (hence, the City and the City). Everybody is everywhere at the same time, but they are separate. They walk down the same streets, they drive on the same roads, but they are legally separate. They aren't allowed to look at each other or acknowledge each other's existence. Each City must act and behave as if the other City isn't there. So this is the abstract high concept. Mixing Genres Mieville explores this fantasy concept within the crime thriller genre. Some readers question whether this is the right vehicle for the concept. They feel it makes the cardinal error of mixing genres. But I think it makes sense. The Law The two different Cities are basically legal constructs. They need the law to make the separation concrete. The law sits at the interface between the two Cities and enforces their separation. Any breach has to be detected and punished by the law. Therefore, when a breach occurs in the novel, we find out the true nature of the Cities, the law and the justice system. The Corruption As usual, there is too much law and not enough justice. As you would expect, these institutions end up being corrupt, not because they are institutions, but because they are institutions established and maintained by humans for human reasons. The novel is really the story of these institutions and their corruption. The Detective and the Crime Like crime fiction, it is told through the eyes of a detective investigating a small crime, which ultimately leads to the detection of a big crime. You could almost say it is the story of the Crime and the Crime (so I will). The Tone Whether Mieville gets the tone right is a subjective issue. We don't know a lot about the back story of the characters, we don't get a lot of physical descriptions. We do get a well-constructed feel for the Kafkaesque atmosphere that defines this city. People walk its streets like automatons or ghosts, unwilling to look left or right, for fear that they will breach the separation of the two Cities. So if characters don't seem like they're human, if a reader feels that they are just cyphers, it's because the City has stripped their humanity away, it's the result of a stylistic choice (not the result of poor writing). Abstract but Powerful I admired Mieville's ability to construct these worlds and explore them credibly, while making the novel work at a metaphorical and political level. The novel could describe life in a totalitarian state, it could describe life in a separated city or nation, but it might also symbolise cultures where people co-exist, but don't acknowledge each other's existence or right to participate in institutions as equals. This could describe Christians and Jews, Christians and Muslims, whites and blacks, men and women, the rich and the poor. This differentiation exists everywhere, Mieville's genius is to explore it through a highly abstract, but powerful, metaphor. So comparisons with both Kafka and Chandler are apt. Collins St, 5pm COLOUR SPOILER ALERT I don't want to spoil the visuals of the book for you, but below is a link to a wiki article about a 1955 painting that the book evokes for me. The painting explores a similar concept as a metaphor for alienation. One warning before you view it though: Partly because of the cover, I imagined The City as a blue/grey world, the world of this painting is brown. So if you want to leave scope to choose your own colours, you might not want to visit the link until you've read the book. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collins_... ...more 4.5/5 stars China Mieville is not Orwellian, as reviewers say \u2013 he is the new Orwell \u2013 or what Orwell would have been had he been writing today. This urban fantasy novel walks a tight-rope between literature and popular-fiction. A fuzzy place where it belongs to literature, and to popular-fiction too, yet it is a part of both and neither \u2013 just like his two cities, or rather, three cities. Beszel, the first city, Ul Qoma, the second city and the fuzzy place in between \u2013 Orciny \u2013 the third city \u2013 4.5/5 stars China Mieville is not Orwellian, as reviewers say \u2013 he is the new Orwell \u2013 or what Orwell would have been had he been writing today. This urban fantasy novel walks a tight-rope between literature and popular-fiction. A fuzzy place where it belongs to literature, and to popular-fiction too, yet it is a part of both and neither \u2013 just like his two cities, or rather, three cities. Beszel, the first city, Ul Qoma, the second city and the fuzzy place in between \u2013 Orciny \u2013 the third city \u2013 the invisible, rather, unseen city that lies in between the city and the city, pervading both, yet part of none. Mieville is an author who works largely in the fantasy genre but whose subject matter is invariably the city: its architecture, archetypes, topology, and sociology. For once, the hero of the novel isn\u2019t a person. It is the cities themselves \u2013 what seems in the beginning a slightly better crime fiction work, by degrees turns to marvelous as the reader realizes that the focus of the plot is not people, but the cities where the plot is set \u2013 the strange cities, and no one knows how many of them are there. The city emerges in layers of complexity as the protagonists, while the characters serve only to be the background \u2013 as vehicles to move the plot ahead and reveal by degrees the complexities that surround the cities. The cities gain a complicated personality while the characters become walking clich\u00e9s, caricatures at the best. No matter, then, where his work exactly stands \u2013 it is sufficient that it is awe-inspiring and riveting. A murder mystery on the surface, but further digging reveals a lot more. The thrill of a regular Grisham taken on a whole new level that imparts it the timeless quality bestowed by literature. Not just stories, but lessons and insights into life \u2013 our life, no matter where the story is told. A young girl is found brutally murdered in Beszel \u2013 a routine investigation by Inspector Borlu leads to the discovery of strange events \u2013 he has to travel to the second city when a video footage shows up that shows a van carrying her dead body being smuggled to Beszel from the second city\u2013 Ul Qoma, separated by no physical borders \u2013 only psychological borders, effected by the act of unseeing and unsensing . Transgressed, a mysterious force called Breach intervenes physically. And then, there\u2019s a third city \u2013 Orciny \u2013 rumored to lie somewhere between the city and the city, not invisible, but unseen, hence unknown. Stakes go higher as Borlu, with a fellow officer from Ul Qoman police investigate into what turns out to be a massive crime \u2013 the cities become major players then. The wonderful thing about Mieville that in creating these new cities set somewhere in Europe, he builds from scratch an entire civilization, a history, with its own legends and peculiar rules, its own languages, customs, its impressive Slavic-Germanic roots \u2013 yet it is not complete fantasy \u2013 it has bearings on the rest of the real world as we know it. It is impossible, yet not implausible. And towards the end, he ties up all loose ends with astonishing lucidity and logic. No questions linger despite the strangeness of the plot. At the end, everything is as real as it is imaginary. The descriptions are the most important part of the plot \u2013 yet the reader cannot get weary of them \u2013 rather than reading about the cities, we feel as if we are walking down its streets, unseeing the other city every time we happen to glance upon it. The repetitions only serve to reinforce the nature of the silent rivalry between the cities. As a crime novel \u2013 it is not astounding but not dull either, but still the best I have ever read when seen in its entirety \u2013 dark Orwellian themes, crisp narration, an unbelievably novel and convincing plot and valuable insights into ourselves flickering here and there. Yet, it cannot be strictly categorized under literature, primarily because of its choice of protagonists \u2013 cities \u2013 that cannot speak for humans, though it spoke volumes about them. Strictly speaking, the novel treads an unstable path between what is considered literature and popular-fiction. It has elements of both, and cannot comfortably fit into either. It blurs the clear line between the two. I can see why this novel bagged an Arthur C. Clarke award. ...more So glad this one reeled me in and threw me up on the bank all spinning with dizzy pleasure. I was headed for disappointment 100 pages in. The fantasy of the setting was intriguing at first: two cities of distinct cultures in some fictional Near East country coexisting in the same place in pieces and patches with their residents trained to \u201cunsee\u201d each other and forbidden to interact. But I started to get a headache with its impossibilities. Was this just some intellectual game? Yet leave it to b So glad this one reeled me in and threw me up on the bank all spinning with dizzy pleasure. I was headed for disappointment 100 pages in. The fantasy of the setting was intriguing at first: two cities of distinct cultures in some fictional Near East country coexisting in the same place in pieces and patches with their residents trained to \u201cunsee\u201d each other and forbidden to interact. But I started to get a headache with its impossibilities. Was this just some intellectual game? Yet leave it to bureaucracy to make the absurd seem normal after a while. Life has gone on here for doppel-towns Beszel and Ul Qoma 1,000 years or more, so it\u2019s just a bit of a leap beyond say, Jerusalem. OK, a big leap because the separation of peoples is as pervasive as the wall of Cold War Berlin, but without the wall. Any clear \u201cbreach\u201d of social or geographic boundaries becomes the turf of all powerful, shadowy forces of Breach, delegated by both sides to enforce. But leap we do because there is nothing like a gritty real murder mystery to just pull you along and take the premise in stride. Our Beszel hero, Tyador Borl\u00fa, puts you in the classic noir situation of a cynical loner cop using every trick he can to seek justice despite pervasive corruption. A young woman is found brutally murdered and dumped in a slum. Small clues lead to bigger ones, and in time she is identified as an archaeology student working in Ul Qoma, forcing Tyador to team up with his counterparts in the military forces of Ul Qoma. As suspects abound, we learn her interests somehow were a threat to the status quo. In the past, she created waves by pushing the idea that the folktale of a secret place and people in the spaces between the two cities, Orciny, was real. Her recent work at a dig seeks to understand an ancient \u201cpre-Cleavage\u201d culture that existed before either the split or fusion of the two societies occupying the current geography. Did these interests make enemies of the underground political groups in both cities who seek unification? Alternatively, did her work threaten the nationalist groups seeking total ascendancy of either city? Or maybe Orciny was real and its members wanted to stay hidden. Then again, perhaps the crime was driven the typical personal or financial motives. This blend of police procedural and fantasy worked surprisingly well for me. I loved it. In an interview at the end of the e-book, Mi\u00e9ville notes: I\u2019m interested in the incredibly creative and fecund disingenuity of the realist crime novel, that pretended realism of what is, I think, at its best, a kind of dream fiction masquerading as a logic puzzle. \u2026Chandler and Kafka seem to me to have a lot more shared terrain than Chandler and a true-crime book. Ultimately, my drive to devour the book was driven by an unconscious desire for the solving of the crime to unveil the larger mysteries and to heal the breach in the societies. To resolve the Escher-like illusions of people existing in one city or another depending on mental outlook. To dispel the Ptolemaic epicycles imposed on the world\u2019s order in a Copernican revolution. I am batting 50% with Mi\u00e9ville so far. I found Perdido Street Station too baroque and too invested in its unbelievable aliens to finish. With Kraken , I needed more humor to appreciate its over-the-top tale of a Giant Squid cult in contemporary London. By contrast, Embassytown was a 5-star read for me by satisfying my love for a classic sci fi story of cultural conflict and communication challenges with an alien culture. Onward I will go with this unpredictable and creative writer. ...more This book is an intriguing police procedural with an insane sci fi/urban fantasy premise, and I mean that in a good way. Two cities occupy the same space and their respective citizens studiously ignore (unsee) each other. They don't even speak the same language. There is Breach, an elite force that punishes unauthorized travel between the cities or intentional contact between citizens. When the body of a murdered young woman is dumped in one of the cities, the police of both cities must cooperat This book is an intriguing police procedural with an insane sci fi/urban fantasy premise, and I mean that in a good way. Two cities occupy the same space and their respective citizens studiously ignore (unsee) each other. They don't even speak the same language. There is Breach, an elite force that punishes unauthorized travel between the cities or intentional contact between citizens. When the body of a murdered young woman is dumped in one of the cities, the police of both cities must cooperate to solve the crime. Oh, and there may also be a third city between the other two. This book was fascinating and very elegantly written. I would love to have a sequel to this. John Lee, the narrator of the audiobook, was very good. ...more Ne o\u010dekivav\u0161i ni\u0161ta, dobio sam dosta... Odli\u010dna radnja sa jo\u0161 boljom pozadinskom pri\u010dom... U\u017eivao sam My first China Mieville and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It does not easily lend itself to straightforward analysis. Mieville has said he wants to write in every genre and this one is very solidly a detective novel, with a good slice of Chandleresque noir. Yet, of course it is also much more; there is a strangeness to it which lends an air otherness which is not really science fiction or fantasy; but it works. The action takes place somewhere in the east of Europe in the cities of Beszal and Ul Qoma My first China Mieville and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It does not easily lend itself to straightforward analysis. Mieville has said he wants to write in every genre and this one is very solidly a detective novel, with a good slice of Chandleresque noir. Yet, of course it is also much more; there is a strangeness to it which lends an air otherness which is not really science fiction or fantasy; but it works. The action takes place somewhere in the east of Europe in the cities of Beszal and Ul Qoma. The cities occupy pretty much the same space geographically, but are entirely separate. Citizens of one city are brought up to unsee everything in the other city; people, buildings, traffic. The concept is a complex one and is presided over by a very secretive organisation called Breach, who have a great deal of power. Into this mix is thrown and old and mostly denied theory that there is a third hidden city between the two (Orciny). There is a murder that crosses borders, so police from two jurisdictions are involved. The whole plot is suitably convoluted and well balanced. Mieville throws in a lot of his influences. One of the main protagonists' experiences in Breach are pure Kafka. There are lots of other influences, but I also think Mieville's political views are also suggested. Many reviews have pointed out that for those who dwell within cities there is an unseen city; whether this be the homeless, the poor, night workers (the list is lengthy)and this is central to Mievill's idea. However he does not push this point; the plot and genre are central. You can ignore the myriad references and still enjoy the book as pure detective; the main characters are all likeable and the villians not obvious. The descriptions of bureaucracy are excellent, and if you work in local government, all too true. I loved it. ...more", "Title": "The City & the City"},
