{"Comments": "You probably don't want to listen to my rating, because I'm just a bit biased. However, I'd like to thank everyone who's posted here. Whether you love the book or hate it doesn't matter, I'm just glad you've taken the time to read it. I've never read a book that described more accurately what it is like to be an Asian American immigrant.<---F> It's like Ms</---F>. Kwok took pieces of my own experience (growing up in a cockroach-infested apartment with parents scraping by by working multiple menial jobs), and lines lifted from my friends' stories (calling an eraser a rubber, telling parents report cards came out only at the end of the year) and merged them with a thrilling and thoroughly absorbing story. The novel takes the Chinese immigrant I've never read a book that described more accurately what it is like to be an Asian American immigrant. It's like Ms. Kwok took pieces of my own experience (growing up in a cockroach-infested apartment with parents scraping by by working multiple menial jobs), and lines lifted from my friends' stories (calling an eraser a rubber, telling parents report cards came out only at the end of the year) and merged them with a thrilling and thoroughly absorbing story. The novel takes the Chinese immigrant experience and lifts it from stereotypes; it's true that Kim is naive and academically oriented, but the author probes so deeply into her psyche and creates situations with such seriousness and honesty that she frees us from such simple labels. In terms of language, I thought Ms. Kwok did a great job of transposing Cantonese conversations into English (partly by keeping idioms) and of making the English Kim hears sound more foreign to the readers, in a creative way. She infuses the narration with Chinese mentality,<---M> not unnaturally</---M>, and cinches descriptions of harsh realities with delicately observed prose which, far from seeming out of place, helps tint the situations in fresh hues. More than anything, the human connection in this novel is real (like Matt, the mother, and colorful characters along the way - Mr. Al, Mr. Jamali, the African American man who comes to fix their heater); the delight of these characters in the face of patheticness, misery, and weakness moved me. I found the ending extremely dissatisfying though - it really didn't add anything new to the story and possibly uprooted all the good things that the novel had built up to that point. But I guess my philosophy ultimately differs from Kim's, and good Asian American literature is so rare that I'm giving this book five stars anyway. Received free through Goodreads First Reads. ...more 4.5. I read <+++>Girl in Translation</+++> by <---A>Jean Kwok</---A> at a time when I read little fiction. I found the book at one of my favorite places- the check out counter at the library- and grabbed it because of its vivid colored cover. In this debut novel, Kwok tells the story of <---C>Kimberly Chang</---C> and her mother, immigrants from Hong Kong to Brooklyn. Forced to live in a condemned apartment and work in horrid conditions because their sponsor, Kimberley's aunt, feels as though they are burden on society, Kimberly gr 4.5. I read <+++>Girl in Translation</+++> by Jean Kwok at a time when I read little fiction. I found the book at one of my favorite places- the check out counter at the library- and grabbed it because of its vivid colored cover. In this debut novel, Kwok tells the story of Kimberly Chang and her mother, immigrants from Hong Kong to Brooklyn. Forced to live in a condemned apartment and work in horrid conditions because their sponsor, Kimberley's aunt, feels as though they are burden on society, Kimberly grows up in poverty. Forced to forge her mother's signature and speak with every adult necessary to get by in society because her mother can not learn English, Kimberly is also forced to grow up fast. She has one saving grace that leads her to attend a private school: she is near genius level in math. Math being the universal language therefore English is not necessary to achieve high marks. Despite a teacher discovering Kimberly's talent and pulling strings to get into this prestigious school, Kimberly still has to work alongside her mother at a clothing factory in Chinatown after school because they have no money for childcare and because her work is needed to help meet daily piecemeal quotas. While at the factory, Kimberly meets Matt. He is from a poor family in Chinatown and has no ambition to ever leave; however, he is one of few other adolescents at the factory and they develop a close friendship that endures through their high school years. As Kimberly navigates her private school and all the typical milestones that come with it, her aunt grows more and more resentful of her and tries with all her power to prevent the Changs from achieving the American Dream just out of spite. Without giving much else away, the second half of the novel focuses on how Kimberly slaves in the factory while hiding her double life from even her closest of school friends. I enjoyed this book a great deal because it speaks of an immigrant experience I am otherwise unfamiliar with. These are legal immigrants yet they fall through nearly as many of the same cracks as the illegals we constantly hear about. Because this is fiction, Kimberly uses her math to obtain a happy ending; however, not all real life immigrants are nearly as fortunate, especially if they do not have a strong work ethic. I recommend this to all looking for a change of pace contemporary fiction book, and am looking forward to Kwok's second novel Mambo in Chinatown. ...more I'm very hesitant to review this book, mostly because I'm not quite sure how to put to words what it is that reading this has made me feel. It is at once both very familiar, and yet completely foreign. The Cantonese, the way that the author translates the slang and the phrases, the cultural traditions, the deeply embedded lifestyle that is Chinese pride and saving face...when I read about that, it was like something sparked in my blood. This part, I understand, and I have lived. But then there's t I'm very hesitant to review this book, mostly because I'm not quite sure how to put to words what it is that reading this has made me feel. It is at once both very familiar, and yet completely foreign. The Cantonese, the way that the author translates the slang and the phrases, the cultural traditions, the deeply embedded lifestyle that is Chinese pride and saving face...when I read about that, it was like something sparked in my blood. This part, I understand, and I have lived. But then there's the fact that this story is told from the perspective of an immigrant to America, and I am very much an ABC, American-born-Chinese-- or, as Aunt Paula would say, a \"bamboo shoot\". So there's this whole other dimension of the story that is just as significant as the Cantonese that I simply can't comprehend. It's as if I'm a relative, but once-removed. Overall, I don't think I've been as deeply moved by any other book I've read this year than I have by this one. I'm left with a feeling of hollow sadness that I can't quite put my finger on, and yet, I don't mind. For me, this story is worth the weight of consciousness that has been left behind. ...more I've been in a really weird place with books lately. Over the past weeks I've read a lot of books and so far no one has been affective enough to motivate me to go raving. I'm on what you can refer to as the eternal hunt. But what can I say? I read Girl in Translation after reading Nina's little convincing review - which you can read here if you like(Thank you Nina!). Now while Girl in Translation didn't really ensorcell me, it did do something. The story of Kimberly - Ah Kim - Chang is a very hon I've been in a really weird place with books lately. Over the past weeks I've read a lot of books and so far no one has been affective enough to motivate me to go raving. I'm on what you can refer to as the eternal hunt. But what can I say? I read Girl in Translation after reading Nina's little convincing review - which you can read here if you like(Thank you Nina!). Now while Girl in Translation didn't really ensorcell me, it did do something. The story of Kimberly - Ah Kim - Chang is a very honest one, the story of a Chinese girl who immigrates to America with her mother in hopes of a better lucrative life. They carry along with them hopes and dreams and very honeyed expectations - which were soon crushed like mine were over the past few weeks with every last page of every book I turned. But moving on. For years, I calculated whether or not something was expensive by how many skirts it cost. In those days, the subway was 100 skirts just to get to the factory and back, a package of gum cost 7 skirts, a hot dog was 50 skirts, a new toy could range from 300 to 2,000 skirts. I even measured friendship in skirts. \u25b6 Kimberly's story is related in reminiscences, using the first person narrative. The story starts with Kimberly's arrival in America, and follows her through high school and her life as a factory worker until about the last 7% of the book when the narration switches to the present. I think there's a subtle wonderfulness to this story. It's such a relatable story that involves day to day recounts of activities, Kimberly and her mother's struggles and strives, financially and culturally. There's such a great importance placed on the benefits of education, as Kimberly tells us in the beginning, her talent isn't singing, it isn't dancing or speed-texting(believe it or not this is actually a real talent in the light of the technological age). Kimberly's talent was school and learning. And some might say BUT why not? Education can also be a talent - that's what I learnt from this book. It was Kimberly's ticket to a better life, her one golden ticket out of the rat and roach infested decrepit apartment she was forced to live in, out of the oddities and privations that came with her foreignness. I found it effective how the author delivered some conversations and sentences from characters not as a fluent English speaker would hear them but as Kimberly heard them. With her very lacking and basic knowledge of English she understood words like \"ghetto\" as \"get dough\", \"extend\" as \"ex-T\" or \"window sill\" as \"winnie seal\". I loved Kimberly as a protagonist, she was simply a model character - and that isn't to say she did no wrong. For me, It was so easy to find parts of myself in her. It was disheartening to see that while every book does need a villain, the villain in this book happened to be family . Through Kimberly's experience we see how awful and undignified it is to be at the mercy of someone, anyone. And maybe life had rubbed her in the wrong way but it bestowed upon her gifts like determination and perseverance and a drive to succeed, and most of all a great appreciation for the little things that should count for a lot. But in the end, following all that was the main rub rob(is more appropriate). Sacrifice, and the hard ground truth that life doesn't always go the way we planned and we might have to give A LOT to get back and reach a state of fulfillment - or a sense of it at least. You might not end up the way you want You may need to change your dreams. My little heart, listen. But sometimes our fate is different from the one we imagined for ourselves. You might not end up with who you want. And that love will become a passing but lingering thing. In those days, I wanted to believe our love was something tangible and permanent, like a good luck charm I could always wear around my neck. Now I know that it was more like the wisp of smoke trailing off a stick of incense: most of what I could hold on to was the memory of the burning, the aftermath of its scent. I know this book touched something in me. It was so real and after I read it I knew it had to mean something to the author(something meaning something more, assuming all books mean something to the people who wrote them), I listened to Jean Kwok talk about Girl in Translation and earned a new found respect for her work. Kwok shares her wishes and in the aftermath of Girl in Translation she hopes this of people: \"Well the next time I see a foreigner who looks funny and has weird bags and can\u2019t even speak English, that they might think, Oh this could be a person who in her own language and culture is a very articulate, wise, funny person, just like Kimberly Chang\u2019s mother\" I love this Kwok's final lines all the more because I love Kimberly Chang's mother, and her relationship with her daughter was exemplary - which was also one of the nicest parts of this book. In all honesty, after listening to that speech I wish I could say my eyes won't be quicker to judge than my brain to not judge, but I think the fact that I'm bothered and aware of it is a start. ...more Somehow, I managed to finish this book, though I complained about it the entire time (I know, my own fault, I should have shut up or stopped reading it). I could not understand the rave reviews about it and couldn't fathom that people had read the same book that I was reading until I realized a consistent flaw in how we review both books and film: too often, people are praising the story itself rather than the telling of the story. Which is what I believe happened with this book. I suffered thro Somehow, I managed to finish this book, though I complained about it the entire time (I know, my own fault, I should have shut up or stopped reading it). I could not understand the rave reviews about it and couldn't fathom that people had read the same book that I was reading until I realized a consistent flaw in how we review both books and film: too often, people are praising the story itself rather than the telling of the story. Which is what I believe happened with this book. I suffered through the whole thing because the author had a compelling story to tell. I was so irritated throughout the read, though, because it was told so poorly. There was virtually no character development. The characters were flat, one-dimensional, either all good or all bad. The settings were ripe for really juicy details but we were not given them. The fact that the author covers over two decades in under 300 pages shows how much things are glossed over. It felt like the worst kind of adolescent literature (the best kind being those that actually tell stories with vivid, descriptive, in-depth language regardless of the fact that they are written for children). Yes, the immigrant experience is a fascinating topic, yes, her story made most of our American childhoods look pretty cushy, but reading it felt like the literary equivalent of really bad junk food. ...more Remember the popular song in the 90s, It's a Hard Knock Life? That song kept popping into my head as I read this novel. For Kimberly, a Chinese immigrant residing in the slums of Brooklyn, it's a hard knock life indeed. Her mother and her come from Hong Kong when Kimberly is approximately eleven years of age and fully dependent on Aunt Paula, a jealous relative, they find themselves living intimately with roaches and rats in a garbage-bag-in-place-of-windows, illegal apartment with no heat or ai Remember the popular song in the 90s, It's a Hard Knock Life? That song kept popping into my head as I read this novel. For Kimberly, a Chinese immigrant residing in the slums of Brooklyn, it's a hard knock life indeed. Her mother and her come from Hong Kong when Kimberly is approximately eleven years of age and fully dependent on Aunt Paula, a jealous relative, they find themselves living intimately with roaches and rats in a garbage-bag-in-place-of-windows, illegal apartment with no heat or air. While struggling to learn English in public school, Kimberly also helps her mom work in Aunt Paula's sweatshop. Kimberly soon realizes that the only way to turn her sob story into a success story is thru education. This novel is all about her school years from the age of eleven to the time of graduation when a very adult Kimberly tries to get her mother and herself out of the roach infested apartment and far away from Aunt Paula's control and wrath. It's a journey full of hard knocks, but this gal doesn't let life knock her down. Reading about Kimberly growing up, finding herself, and growing a backbone was like watching a flower evolve from a bud to a fully opened delight. Can this girl that barely speaks any English and curls up with blankets from a dumpster while stomping on the floor to scare off roaches achieve the American dream? Can a young immigrant dressed in rags and castoffs find love? Scholarships are great, but they don't guarantee happiness... I really enjoyed this. I enjoyed seeing American public school from the eyes of an immigrant. I even found bits of humor here and there. (The Sahara pipeline.. the bra lady at Macy's..LOL) I found myself cheering for the heroine constantly. To top it off, it had a surprise ending. This is one that is staying on my bookshelf for sure. ...more An insightful debut about immigration, hardship, and striving for education and success against all odds, enveloped by a tentative love story. Threre's a Chinese saying that the fates are winds that blow through our lives from every angle, urging us along the paths of time. Those who are strong-willed may fight thestorm and possibly choose their own road, while the weak must go where they are blown. I say I have not been so much pushed by winds as pulled forward by the force of my decisions. Gir An insightful debut about immigration, hardship, and striving for education and success against all odds, enveloped by a tentative love story. Threre's a Chinese saying that the fates are winds that blow through our lives from every angle, urging us along the paths of time. Those who are strong-willed may fight thestorm and possibly choose their own road, while the weak must go where they are blown. I say I have not been so much pushed by winds as pulled forward by the force of my decisions. Girl in Translation follows the storyline of Kimberly Chang, a Chinese girl who migrates to the United States with her mother. The narration beautifully illustrates the struggles of being pushed into a foreign world, where people look different, have other traditions, other norms, and speak an entirely different language. Based on her own childhood experiences as a migrant from Hong Kong, Jean Kwok tells the story of young and exceptionally intelligent Kimberly Chang who finds herself doing the splits between a life in Chinatown, wasting away as a sweatshop worker and living in a run-down apartment, and striving for a successful career at a fancy private school. Kimberly translates herself back and forth between a world where she can barely afford clothes and a world where, in spite of her intelligence, she's supposed to look the part as she reaches for higher education. It is a tale of survival and beating the odds, but ultimately, it is also a fragile love story in an unforgiving environment. The narration is raw, honest, and authentic, with the Chinese culture being cleverly woven into the storyline. It provides insight into a world hidden behind the facade of Chinatown, a place where we might order a Sezuan chicken to go and never imagine what may lie beneath the surface. Girl in Translation provides a powerful message of hope, narrated by a strong and inquisitive character whose mind and soul sometimes seems divided in two. ...more *In person book club read #2.* I liked this debut overall. I came off it feeling a message that family is there to help with the big life changing events, but when it comes to day to day survival, ya gotta have friends, as Bette Midler would say. It is told from the perspective of Kimberly, fresh off the boat with her mother from Hong Kong, and placed by her aunt (evil woman) in a condemned NYC apartment with no heat but plenty of cockroaches and rats. Neither spoke much English, but Kimberly's sp *In person book club read #2.* I liked this debut overall. I came off it feeling a message that family is there to help with the big life changing events, but when it comes to day to day survival, ya gotta have friends, as Bette Midler would say. It is told from the perspective of Kimberly, fresh off the boat with her mother from Hong Kong, and placed by her aunt (evil woman) in a condemned NYC apartment with no heat but plenty of cockroaches and rats. Neither spoke much English, but Kimberly's spunk and ingenuity got them through time and time again. The level of their poverty and bad luck sort of broke my little heart. In the end, I felt a disconnect from the characters but thought it a nice enough story. ...more This was a really good read. A mom and daughter immigrate to America and endure hardships working in a sweatshop owned by a relative. It's about a girl who is smart as a whip who is finding her way to save her and her mother by getting an education. It's a story of survival. Good character development and an interesting perspective. Unbelievable that such conditions did exist. I think her story is one of many stories of these immigrants who were taken advantage of and didn't have the knowledge o This was a really good read. A mom and daughter immigrate to America and endure hardships working in a sweatshop owned by a relative. It's about a girl who is smart as a whip who is finding her way to save her and her mother by getting an education. It's a story of survival. Good character development and an interesting perspective. Unbelievable that such conditions did exist. I think her story is one of many stories of these immigrants who were taken advantage of and didn't have the knowledge or courage to fight back. ...more When Kimberly Chang and her mother emigrate from Hong Kong to America, they are forced to reside in a cheap Brooklyn apartment with no heating and a copious amount of mice and roaches. To survive their horrible living conditions and financial struggles Kimberly works with her mother at a sweatshop in the afternoon while attending school in the daytime. Despite her initial inability to speak English, Kimberly works her way up to the top of the class in order to secure a better life. But when she When Kimberly Chang and her mother emigrate from Hong Kong to America, they are forced to reside in a cheap Brooklyn apartment with no heating and a copious amount of mice and roaches. To survive their horrible living conditions and financial struggles Kimberly works with her mother at a sweatshop in the afternoon while attending school in the daytime. Despite her initial inability to speak English, Kimberly works her way up to the top of the class in order to secure a better life. But when she meets Matt, a compassionate boy who also works at the sweatshop, she'll choose between everything she's worked so ambitiously to achieve and her first love. I'm not a stranger when it comes to immigrant experiences - my mother and father were both immigrants, and the stories they share with me motivate me to work harder. But seriously, cockroaches ? I remember one dreadful description of when Kimberly could feel the mice racing across her body as she slept... gross. Yet, even though she's not allowed to have friends over and spends all of her time studying and working, Kimberly doesn't whine and give up. She does everything in her power to succeed, and she does. That's one reason why I fell in love with her voice. That's not to say she's an over-achieving robot. Kimberly, as well as the other characters in this book, are relatable - Kimberly herself succumbs to peer pressure and other adolescent issues. I was rooting for her and felt personal satisfaction whenever she aced a test or rose above her cultural confusion. My only complaint is that some of the romance that didn't involve Matt seemed unnecessary to the plot. I understand that it was included to show how Kimberly is just like any other girl, but I doubt she would've had time to hang out with guys after school when her mother needed her at the sweat shop. Overall, a 4.5. Jean Kwok has crafted a fantastic debut novel that portrays the struggle of a Chinese girl growing up in the US. *cross-posted from my blog, the quiet voice . ...more Ive read this book twice now, once on my own and several years later for book group. Both times I had the same experience. I just love the first half of so when she is younger and they are struggling to learn English and American ways. As she assimilates I find my attention moving to anger at the heartless aunt who has them in virtual bondage, living in a condemned building without heat, working 12 or more hours a day. Kim is a hard working student struggling to balance her school and economic d Ive read this book twice now, once on my own and several years later for book group. Both times I had the same experience. I just love the first half of so when she is younger and they are struggling to learn English and American ways. As she assimilates I find my attention moving to anger at the heartless aunt who has them in virtual bondage, living in a condemned building without heat, working 12 or more hours a day. Kim is a hard working student struggling to balance her school and economic demands, living two lives: private prep school phenomenon and Chinese factory girl. This is where I have a little trouble with her character. She is in honors classes at a private academy, skips two grades in math and science, works in the library, has a period off during which she necks with boys, takes the subway to China town and works until at the factory until 9, 10 or later? Are there really this many hours in a day? There are some other choices and consequences later in the book that cause me to question reality. But I'll let you decide if you agree with her or not. Over all I recommend this book. It is mostly interesting and entertaining, just don't look too closely at the details. ...more I see I'm against the grain here, but I was not into this book AT ALL. I read it for my Kinshasa book club- if not for that I would have stopped halfway through. The story is the most average, unsurprising \"coming of age\" tale I have ever read. The fact that the girl grows up working in a sweat shop would have been shocking if I was as naive as the main character's best friend, Annette. And the love of her life made no sense. She kept calling him beautiful, talked about what a wonderful person h I see I'm against the grain here, but I was not into this book AT ALL. I read it for my Kinshasa book club- if not for that I would have stopped halfway through. The story is the most average, unsurprising \"coming of age\" tale I have ever read. The fact that the girl grows up working in a sweat shop would have been shocking if I was as naive as the main character's best friend, Annette. And the love of her life made no sense. She kept calling him beautiful, talked about what a wonderful person he was, but he pretty much demands that she spend her life living in a crappy apartment in Chinatown, having babies starting at 18, dropping out of school, and basically give up every dream she'd ever had so that he can \"take care of her and be a man.\" The big surprise hinted at on page one of the book was not a surprise at all when it is revealed, 10 pages towards the end, and it also didn't seem to effect her life's journey in any meaningful way, which made no sense. And I hated how Chinese language usage was written about here. Almost every page would have some random Chinese phrase that made not much (but some sense) in English. The meaning could be inferred from context, but the author, every time, insists on immediately, after every line, explaining exactly what that meant. Either allow the reader to figure it out and appreciate the uniqueness of the language, or translate it like you do the rest of the dialogue. I found it to be so condescending to the reader. An example (spoiler ahead!): \"You have the big stomach.\" She knew I was pregnant. Yeah, no shit. Thanks. ...more 4.5 stars I really liked this book, a lot. Hence how I was able to finish it in a single sitting. It was very interesting. The story revolves around an Chinese mother/daughter duo's immigration from Hong Kong to New York. The book focuses on the experiences of culture clash, isolation and all the other difficulties they go through to adapt to the strange new world they find themselves in. Perhaps I resonated with this so strongly because both of my parent's were immigrants, it was because of the 4.5 stars I really liked this book, a lot. Hence how I was able to finish it in a single sitting. It was very interesting. The story revolves around an Chinese mother/daughter duo's immigration from Hong Kong to New York. The book focuses on the experiences of culture clash, isolation and all the other difficulties they go through to adapt to the strange new world they find themselves in. Perhaps I resonated with this so strongly because both of my parent's were immigrants, it was because of their experiences in life that I was constantly pushed to work harder then everyone around me. Kimberly Chang (the protagonist) is everything I wish I was and hope to secretly be: independent, mysterious, and insanely driven. There was a lot of bits that had me laugh out loud, one particular part where a boy in school wouldn't stop bullying Kimberly because of her clothes. The rest of his friends would chime in and bully her as well and this bothered her so she came up with a brilliant idea to play him at his own game. She decided to approach him and apologize whilst looking innocently adorable, he confusedly says \"For what?\" and she goes \"I just not like you in the way you like me\" then kisses him on the cheek in front of all of his friends, mind you these are immature 12 year olds. Poor Greg was teased for weeks and he avoided Kimberly like the plague after that. HA! Overrall, this is a book I would recommend to everyone. Short, amazingly insightful and relatable. fav line: I thought \"I never want to love someone like that, no even him, so much that there would be no room left for myself, so much that I wouldn't be able to survive if he left me.\" ...more I should probably bring this book down to a 3 for how terrible the end is. And clearly the characterizations of everyone except our narrator are fairly unsubtle. But I was completely engrossed in the details of this story of growing up dreadfully poor in Brooklyn a generation ago, a Tree Grows in Brooklyn for the late 20th Century. Kwok's tale really grabs you, and if you have a hard time crediting some of the details, the deeper unease is with the undeniable fact that the world she portrays - p I should probably bring this book down to a 3 for how terrible the end is. And clearly the characterizations of everyone except our narrator are fairly unsubtle. But I was completely engrossed in the details of this story of growing up dreadfully poor in Brooklyn a generation ago, a Tree Grows in Brooklyn for the late 20th Century. Kwok's tale really grabs you, and if you have a hard time crediting some of the details, the deeper unease is with the undeniable fact that the world she portrays - piecework for far less than minimum wage, children laboring in factories, squatting in unheated condemned buildings - is not a sepia-toned memory of my great-grandparents' (or A Tree Grows in BK's) New York, but a contemporary reality. But, having a great story to tell does not excuse cheap ripped-from-Harlequin romantic double-twist endings. Without spoilers, there's nothing about the last 10% of the book that I found credible, or true to the story that Kwok has told up to that point. I've convinced myself - down to a 3! ...more I was very impressed with this book. It teaches important life lessons, such as the amount of money you have or earn doesn't define who you are as a person. This is shown throughout the book as Kim and her mom make nearly pennies a day but continue to be very positive people and it doesn't stop Kim from her school studies. It was a very easy story to follow and readers never knew what was going to happen next. There are few reviews about this book on goodreads, but all of them are positive and t I was very impressed with this book. It teaches important life lessons, such as the amount of money you have or earn doesn't define who you are as a person. This is shown throughout the book as Kim and her mom make nearly pennies a day but continue to be very positive people and it doesn't stop Kim from her school studies. It was a very easy story to follow and readers never knew what was going to happen next. There are few reviews about this book on goodreads, but all of them are positive and the readers enjoyed the book. I would recommend this book for mostly teenagers. The ending of the book was very surprising and shocking. One of the books strengths was that the author used creative spelling to show how Kim misunderstood some English words. Also, this book had good character development. This book also shows how kids grow up together in school from grade school to high school, indicating the audience that is targeted to teenage kids and young adults.My favorite scene in the book is when a kid in Kim's class has a cheat sheet in her sleeve and drops it on the floor. Kim picked it up not knowing what it was,and the teacher saw Kim and took the sheet out of her hand. The teacher quickly realized what it was and sent to her down to the principal's office where she would be questioned. A boy in her class named Curt saw what happened,and knew she was innocent. He then goes down to the office and sees her in the room and explains to the principals what has happened. The principal takes that into consideration and says how you do on this test will determine our decision. Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I would recommend it to other readers. ...more I liked this book. I didn't love it, but I did enjoy it. Should you read it? Yes, if you get it free or for a couple dollars. \u201cSometimes our fate is different from the one we imagined for ourselves.\u201d Jean Kwok has managed to create an interesting and eye-opening read out of an experience that so many American immigrants have experienced within their lives. Kimberly and her mother's story is honest, shameless, and wholesome. As a child of immigrant parents, I found myself being able to relate to Kimberly on multiple levels despite being born in America. There's so much truth to Kimberly's story, and I loved reading her \u201cSometimes our fate is different from the one we imagined for ourselves.\u201d Jean Kwok has managed to create an interesting and eye-opening read out of an experience that so many American immigrants have experienced within their lives. Kimberly and her mother's story is honest, shameless, and wholesome. As a child of immigrant parents, I found myself being able to relate to Kimberly on multiple levels despite being born in America. There's so much truth to Kimberly's story, and I loved reading her experiences and thoughts from her point of view. She didn't hold anything back in terms of her feelings, confusions, and concerns, and I loved that her voice seemed so fresh despite the fact that a lot of her concerns were so relatable. There were parts in this story that made me laugh out loud, that made my heart clench, that made me appreciate my immigrant parents, and everything that they had to go through to get me to where I am today, so much more. This is a wonderfully heart-warming and eye-opening story that I think everyone should read. My only complaint is that some of the plot dragged on a bit in the middle, and I felt like some of the romance was a little unnecessary. I loved that there was so much focus on Kimberly's mother and all of the work she had to do, and I wish there had been more of a satisfying ending. I don't know what I was expecting in the end and I liked it enough, but I was just expecting a little something more. What I loved most about this novel were the varying human connections and relationship that it explored so thoroughly. There was Kimberly and her mother, Kimberly and Matt, Kimberly and Aunt Paula, Aunt Paula and Kimberly's mother, Kimberly and Annette, etc. All of the relationships felt so real and I loved that there was something in each of them that everyone benefitted from. I also loved all of the secondary characters that came along the way and left their marks in Kimberly's life. I thought that was such an important and powerful aspect of the story - the fact that no matter who comes along in your life, whether you intend for them to be there or not, can impact you in one way or another. \u201cWhat a relationship looks like on the outside isn't the same as what it's like on the inside. You can be more in love with someone in your mind than with the person you see every day.\u201d All in all, this was a very human and a very insightful read! There were so many noteworthy quotes that I found empowering and important. This is a wonderful piece of American literature that deserves so much more recognition and attention than it has. Please give it a read if you ever have the chance to, you won't regret it! \u201cNobody can change who you are, except for you.\u201d ...more While looking at the upcoming release from Jean Kwok, I went back to my review and decided to update it. I have increased the rating from 4 to 5 stars as this is one of a few novels that has stayed with me a couple of years after reading. I actually obtained this book for my wife as it was on a \"top twenty books a woman should read\" list. Having found it on such a list, I assumed that it would be some form of \"chick-lit\". Needing something to read and finding the synopsis to be interesting, I rea While looking at the upcoming release from Jean Kwok, I went back to my review and decided to update it. I have increased the rating from 4 to 5 stars as this is one of a few novels that has stayed with me a couple of years after reading. I actually obtained this book for my wife as it was on a \"top twenty books a woman should read\" list. Having found it on such a list, I assumed that it would be some form of \"chick-lit\". Needing something to read and finding the synopsis to be interesting, I read it before my wife got her hands on it. I am glad that I did. While I am no expert on what women should read, I am confident this is a book that all genders should read. I found this story, which is based (how loosely I am not sure) on the real life experiences of the author to be uplifting and engaging. Personally, I have a soft spot for well written coming of age stories. Here we have a girl being introduced to a new culture while living in impoverished conditions. Despite excelling academically in her home country, she has to essentially start over in a place and a new language. Most readers can identify with a character in a position where they do not fit in. This is a universal theme and one that resounded with me. Without revealing the content of the book, the story focuses on the life of a bright young girl who moves from Hong Kong to the USA with her mother. In an attempt to build a new life they work in their aunts garment factory. The story follows this young girls transition into a new culture as she attempts to maintain her two worlds, her school and friends and the garment factory. It has been too long for me to recall the content and provide my regular analysis. I do recall some minor and youthful sexual content and some minor adult language. Overall, I found the story to be moving and enduring. When looking for a coming of age story, I continually come back to this story to compare. I give this my highest recommendation. ...more I was loving and enjoying this book, but the last 1/4th of the book I felt like Jean Kwok changed Kimberly's personality, and she was even trying to change Matt into a jerk by he not wanting Kim to finish her goals (and then Vivians). Is this so the book could end in a typical politically correct feminist way? After Kim almost having an abortion (which I would have given the book a 1 star over), she selfishly withheld her child of having a really great and involved father who was in love with he I was loving and enjoying this book, but the last 1/4th of the book I felt like Jean Kwok changed Kimberly's personality, and she was even trying to change Matt into a jerk by he not wanting Kim to finish her goals (and then Vivians). Is this so the book could end in a typical politically correct feminist way? After Kim almost having an abortion (which I would have given the book a 1 star over), she selfishly withheld her child of having a really great and involved father who was in love with her and she him. She wouldn't have had to give up Yale--or even a career--for a family, and it bugs me that so many female authors portray it that way (and it always happens at the end when you've spent all this time getting involved in the story). The only reason Kim didn't try to get Matt back after she decided against an abortion was because he went back to Vivian afterwards? Really?? Umm, I think it's more important that you tell him that YOU'RE HAVING HIS CHILD! She held off a year at Yale anyway, while she and her mother did the jewelry. Then they moved near Yale while Kim worked and went to school and her mother helped care for the baby. I don't see how Matt could not have fit into that picture, and I'm positive he would have sacrificed his ridiculous wish to stay in China Town to be with his wife and child. Seriously, I was so pissed at the last 1/8th of this book. ...more Girl in Translation is the story of Kimberly Chang, an eleven-year old girl who arrives in Brooklyn from Hong Kong with her widowed mother. Their immigration has been arranged and paid for by Aunt Paula, her mother\u2019s older sister. They are hopeful -- and why not? America is the country where dreams come true. Every novel needs a villain and here it\u2019s Aunt Paula who takes on the role. Having paid for bringing her sister and niece to America, she now feels they owe her total obedience for the rest Girl in Translation is the story of Kimberly Chang, an eleven-year old girl who arrives in Brooklyn from Hong Kong with her widowed mother. Their immigration has been arranged and paid for by Aunt Paula, her mother\u2019s older sister. They are hopeful -- and why not? America is the country where dreams come true. Every novel needs a villain and here it\u2019s Aunt Paula who takes on the role. Having paid for bringing her sister and niece to America, she now feels they owe her total obedience for the rest of their lives. Aunt Paula doesn\u2019t say this in so many words, but Kimberly\u2019s Ma understands the reality of their situation and makes Kimberly understand that except for Aunt Paula\u2019s help they are completely without resources. But even Ma can\u2019t guess how little her own sister is willing to do for them. Aunt Paula gives them housing, but it\u2019s an illegal apartment in a derelict neighborhood of tenements. The apartment has no heat and is infested with vermin. When winter comes, ice forms inside the windows. As for work, first Aunt Paula protests that Ma is too frail to babysit her two sons; then she puts Ma to work in the clothing sweatshop that she manages. Like all the sweatshop workers\u2019 children, Kimberly comes to the factory after school to help Ma with the piecework so that they can make their quota. Each month, Uncle Bob scrupulously deducts part of Ma\u2019s earnings for rent and their immigration repayment costs. Mother and daughter live on what\u2019s left, barely enough to cover food. Unused to American ways and unable to achieve the stellar grades she earned in Hong Kong, Kimberly plays hooky to escape from her difficulties at school. Then one day she realizes how little her mother earns, that Ma will never have the time or energy after a grueling day\u2019s work to learn English and get a better job, and that if they depend on Aunt Paula, Kimberly will end up working at the sweatshop when she finishes school. From then on, it\u2019s all about grades; not only because of her deeply-engrained belief that education is the ticket to a better life, but because Kimberly has no other avenue. It\u2019s up to her to get them out of the factory. When Kimberly earns a full scholarship to an exclusive prep school, Aunt Paula\u2019s surprising reaction is one of anger, quickly smoothed over; from this, Kimberly and Ma realize they are not allowed to outshine Aunt Paula\u2019s family. From then on, they lie about Kimberly\u2019s grades, hiding the fact that she is smarter than her cousin Nelson so that Aunt Paula can save face. In the scenes with Aunt Paula, we see tyranny and strong emotions concealed behind the elaborate courtesies of Chinese etiquette, occasional cracks in the veneer revealing just enough to communicate the true meaning of practiced, polite assurances. I really liked the way Kwok drops in literal translations of Chinese expressions into Kimberly and her Ma\u2019s speech; for example, to be of \u201csmall heart\u201d means to be very careful. I also liked the way she constructs English idioms and phrases as they sound to a bewildered Kimberly, so that we understand why they don\u2019t make sense. Kwok manages to put the reader so firmly in Kimberly\u2019s mind that we also journey through the story straddling both cultures. Kimberly may be na\u00efve, but so are her well-meaning American friends. A classmate argues with Kimberly, saying that she can\u2019t be working in a factory because her father says it\u2019s against the law to put children to work. There have been many books about the Chinese immigrant experience and Girl in Translation is only the second such book that has made me feel as though I had fallen right into the narrator\u2019s life \u2013 or that the author had been spying on mine. The other was Amy Tan\u2019s The Joy Luck Club . The writing captured me from the start. You feel as though you\u2019re reading a diary, an account of true events and not a work of fiction. There is immediacy to Kimberly\u2019s unvarnished observations. The novel takes you behind the stereotypes of Asian immigrants. Education is a priority not just because it\u2019s the route to a better life; sometimes a report card is the only benchmark parents can hold up as validation of their choice to leave behind the safe and the familiar. This is an immigrant experience that explores the conflicting dynamics of family, poking holes at the notion of a cohesive community that takes care of its own. It exposes the world of sweatshops and the exploitation of new arrivals by those who are more established. Jean Kwok opens to us the heart and mind of a young girl doggedly steering her way out of that world, and it\u2019s an unforgettable ride. What I Learned About Writing from Reading This Book This is a novel drawn from personal experience and there is an authenticity to Girl in Translation you rarely encounter. So I can tell you in one word what I learned about writing from this book: courage. Hemingway said \u201cThere is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed.\u201d But how many of us are willing to cut so close to the bone and expose ourselves in this way? Not only to relive a terrible time but also to examine those memories closely, discover their meaning, and render them into words that can move others? In no way was my journey to Canadian citizenship as fraught as Kimberly\u2019s. I managed to avoid the worst experiences of being a stranger in a strange land because I already spoke English (my father worked overseas all through my childhood). We were not wealthy and my parents cultivated a habit of thrift, but there was never any doubt that they would send us to university. But Kimberly\u2019s story so easily could have been mine. There, but for the grace of English and financial security, could have been my family. There were countless scenes in the book I found extremely difficult to read. It was like reliving the first difficult years of adjusting to life in Canada, but worse: that feeling of being apart, helplessly different and unwanted, amplified by culture shock, language barriers, racism and poverty. As I read, Girl in Translation peeled away the protective layers I had acquired over the years. I felt the truth of those experiences and cringed. I could hardly bear to read some of the passages, and can\u2019t imagine what kind of bloodletting it took for Kwok to actually write those scenes. Authenticity doesn't depend upon writing about your own life experiences. It takes truth, which is sometimes pitiless and relentless. And it takes courage to delve into truth, no matter what the topic. Even for this book review, I can't summon up the courage to write about the emotions it dredged up to the surface. One day I will sit at the typewriter and bleed, truly bleed. Until then, this book will stay on my bookshelf as a reminder of what you can achieve when you allow your authentic voice to speak. Jean graciously allowed me to interview her (read here) ...more I bought this because I enjoy immigrant fiction: it often gives interesting insights into American or British life, and I'm an immigrant myself. And for about two-thirds of this book, I was not disappointed. But then \u2026 Ah Kim (Kimberly) turns into a teenager. She's been granted a full scholarship at an exclusive New York secondary school despite living in an appalling slum with her widowed mother who works all the hours God sends in a garment sweatshop in Chinatown run by her elder sister and br I bought this because I enjoy immigrant fiction: it often gives interesting insights into American or British life, and I'm an immigrant myself. And for about two-thirds of this book, I was not disappointed. But then \u2026 Ah Kim (Kimberly) turns into a teenager. She's been granted a full scholarship at an exclusive New York secondary school despite living in an appalling slum with her widowed mother who works all the hours God sends in a garment sweatshop in Chinatown run by her elder sister and brother-in-law, who carefully extract payment for the medicines the mother needed to overcome TB in Hong Kong before emigrating, for the airline tickets to the US, and for rent of the so-called 'apartment' in a fully-decayed area of Brooklyn. Kimberly can't even afford underwear: it would cost too much. But she's very bright and willing to work hard. Then she suddenly seems to have the time, despite helping her mother meet quotas at the sweat shop, to become a more 'typical' American teenager. What next? Well, a full scholarship to Yale. OK, I'll grant that those who are very bright and work very very hard might just get so lucky. But by the end of the novel any critical look at an America that tolerates such poverty, provides so little protection to its people, and clearly doesn't care has gone by the board. Kimberly makes it as a pediatric cardiac surgeon, buys a house for her and her mother (and son now) in Westchester and rides around on a Ducati. She's achieved the American dream, and any reflection on her part about the fate of the boyfriend Matt she left behind at the sweat shop (he's made it up the social ladder to UPS driver) or the others in Chinatown sweatshops is completely missing, as is any critical look at her aunt and uncle, who exploit their countrymen ruthlessly (but perhaps may have reasons? let's hear them!). It's an \"I'm all right, Jack\" novel without the social (or psychological) criticism. All that opportunity to look at so many possible social and psychological factors, passed up by this author in favor of a cheap women's magazine ending! What a shame! My copy of this book will be making its way very quickly to the charity shop. That way it might do a little good for somebody who needs a spot of help. ...more I\u2019m not sure why this book has garnered such buzz and great reviews. The writing is straightforward and easy to read, but far from being literature. This book seems to belie the fact the author has an MFA in fiction, or perhaps this is all it takes to get an MFA in fiction from Columbia these days-I don\u2019t know. Perhaps the book should have been categorized as YA since it seems to have been written for an eighth grade reading level. I was especially annoyed by the use of italics to start each new I\u2019m not sure why this book has garnered such buzz and great reviews. The writing is straightforward and easy to read, but far from being literature. This book seems to belie the fact the author has an MFA in fiction, or perhaps this is all it takes to get an MFA in fiction from Columbia these days-I don\u2019t know. Perhaps the book should have been categorized as YA since it seems to have been written for an eighth grade reading level. I was especially annoyed by the use of italics to start each new thought within a chapter. Someone needs to teach this author and/or the editor how to use italics. This is a coming of age story about an 11-year old Chinese girl who comes from Hong Kong with her mother to live in NY in an abandoned tenement with no heat, and work in a clothing factory sweatshop. Kimberly, the young girl, is exceptionally bright so is able to get into a private school on a scholarship and is able to fulfill the American dream of working hard and becoming a success. There is no depth to her story or characters. The story is told in a linear \u201cjust the facts\u201d manner: \u201cAnd then this happened, And then this happened, And then this happened, And then 12 years Later\u2026\u201d And she does not make the reader see or feel any real weariness or despair despite the weariness and despair that Kimberly must feel going to school all day and then going straight to the factory to work, sometimes until 2a in the morning, and then coming home to an apartment with no heat in the dead of winter. There are no descriptions of bags under her eyes, or even of her falling asleep at her desk or on the subway. The fact that her mother doesn\u2019t pass her naturalization test which in turn means Kimberly will not automatically become a naturalized citizen is only briefly mentioned. There is nothing said about how great their disappointment must be. On a positive note, Kwok does use her own experience working in a clothing factory to add authenticity to these parts of the story showing that the sweatshop conditions have not changed much from the days of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory; only the immigrants are just a different ethnic group now. But this and the great cover of the book are not enough to save this book from being anything but mediocre and forgettable. ...more Dijelom autobiografska, ovo je pri\u010da o djevoj\u010dici koja je primorana, nakon smrti oca, iz svog rodnog grada Hong Konga, zajedno s majkom, preseliti se u Ameriku, 'u bolji \u017eivot'. Govore\u0107i o problemima imigranata, posebno onih koji su u SAD pristigli iz dalekih isto\u010dnih zemalja, vidimo da je siroma\u0161tvo tek jedan od problema s kojima se ti ljudi susre\u0107u. Puno ve\u0107i im je problem, u biti, golemi jaz izme\u0111u isto\u010dne i zapadne kulture, velike pote\u0161ko\u0107e u u\u010denju posve druga\u010dijeg jezika i op\u0107enito prilagod Dijelom autobiografska, ovo je pri\u010da o djevoj\u010dici koja je primorana, nakon smrti oca, iz svog rodnog grada Hong Konga, zajedno s majkom, preseliti se u Ameriku, 'u bolji \u017eivot'. Govore\u0107i o problemima imigranata, posebno onih koji su u SAD pristigli iz dalekih isto\u010dnih zemalja, vidimo da je siroma\u0161tvo tek jedan od problema s kojima se ti ljudi susre\u0107u. Puno ve\u0107i im je problem, u biti, golemi jaz izme\u0111u isto\u010dne i zapadne kulture, velike pote\u0161ko\u0107e u u\u010denju posve druga\u010dijeg jezika i op\u0107enito prilagodbe posve druga\u010dijem na\u010dinu \u017eivota. Upravo zbog nerazumijevanja i nesnala\u017eenja u stranoj zemlji i kulturi, ve\u0107ina imigranata, zbog potrebe za novcem, upadne u zamku oportunisti\u010dkih vlasnika tvornica kojima je cilj \u0161to vi\u0161e iskoristiti ih za slabo pla\u0107enu radnu snagu, koju ne moraju (odnosno ne \u017eele) legalno prijaviti, te kojima stoga ne moraju osigurati pla\u0107anje doprinosa, humane radne uvjete, niti fer pla\u0107u za (itekako prekovremeni) rad. Ova pri\u010da, ipak, nije samo pri\u010da o surovosti \u017eivota u bijedi na kakav su Kimberly i njena majka bile osu\u0111ene dolaskom u SAD, ona je tako\u0111er i pri\u010da o nadi i putu izlaska iz takvog \u017eivota. Kimberly, iako i sama ima problema sa prilagodbom, u obrazovanju vidi svoj jedini spas, \u0161to ju ponuka da se nikada ne prestane truditi, makar morala danono\u0107no u\u010diti, iscrpljena od pomaganja majci u tvornici. Naravno da nije svatko prirodno nadaren za u\u010denje i matemati\u010dke predmete kao Kimberly, \u0161to joj je, dakako, puno pomoglo u napredovanju u \u0161koli, ali mislim da poruka ove knjige nije nu\u017eno ba\u0161 ta da \u0107e se ustrajno\u0161\u0107u i trudom sigurno posti\u0107i uspjeh, niti \u0107emo tako sigurno ostvariti 'ameri\u010dki san'; ve\u0107 da nam ustrajanje i trud, kao i beskrajna i \u010deli\u010dna volja (\u010dak i u najgorim vremenima) pru\u017ea mogu\u0107nost za taj uspjeh; za izlaz i pobolj\u0161anje uvjeta u kojima smo primorani \u017eivjeti. Mnogi svoju priliku, na\u017ealost, nisu u mogu\u0107nosti iskoristiti, ili ju pak uop\u0107e ne dobiju, te tako, na\u017ealost, zauvijek zavr\u0161e 'izgubljeni u prijevodu'. Du\u017ea recenzija je na FB stranici . ...more Weird and disappointing to have the exact same reaction to two consecutive novels (both on Amazon's list of best books of 2010, incidentally) -- the story had potential, but was told way too superficially. Only this book was actually less enjoyable for me than Secret Daughter , the last book I read. I felt like I'd read this story many times before. Eleven-year-old Kimberly emigrates from Hong Kong to the U.S. with her impoverished widowed mother in seek of a better life; the two struggle with adv Weird and disappointing to have the exact same reaction to two consecutive novels (both on Amazon's list of best books of 2010, incidentally) -- the story had potential, but was told way too superficially. Only this book was actually less enjoyable for me than Secret Daughter , the last book I read. I felt like I'd read this story many times before. Eleven-year-old Kimberly emigrates from Hong Kong to the U.S. with her impoverished widowed mother in seek of a better life; the two struggle with adversity in the form of unsympathetic teachers and classmates, exploitative relatives, extreme poverty, etc., etc. There was nothing new here -- not the literary voice, not the story, not the characters. Nothing. Worse, many things didn't ring true to me although I hesitate to say this, having learned that the author herself emigrated from Hong Kong as a girl. Could the teacher really be that insensitive to the plight of a non-English speaking student? Were the Americanized relatives so avaricious and uncaring? And if so, how could Kimberly's mother be so utterly clueless about her older sister? Speaking of cluelessness, the author seemed to enjoy creating incidents where Kimberly's language foibles and general naivete led to misunderstandings which were supposed to be funny, I guess, but got old, especially since I would have expected Kimberly to catch on to a thing or two by Christmas. Especially if she was so very bright. I got through a little more than 25% of this before skimming reviews to see if others felt the way I did, and read more than one review reporting that the book started off good and went downhill. Since I didn't even think the book started off good, I decided not to stick around for the downward spiral. ...more This book really opened my eyes to the hardships of many immigrant experiences and having to work at horrible sweatshop factories. We hear about harsh treatment so often on the news and documentaries that sometimes I feel I may be desensitized from the stories, seeing an image of horror I cannot really understand. But Jean Kwok portrays the experience through daily episodes that blend the harshness (that can be hard to believe) with the mundane, and this way really emphasizes the reality part of This book really opened my eyes to the hardships of many immigrant experiences and having to work at horrible sweatshop factories. We hear about harsh treatment so often on the news and documentaries that sometimes I feel I may be desensitized from the stories, seeing an image of horror I cannot really understand. But Jean Kwok portrays the experience through daily episodes that blend the harshness (that can be hard to believe) with the mundane, and this way really emphasizes the reality part of the cruel reality. I found myself skimming through most of the book though, despite the interesting world Jean Kwok built, because of the prose style and because I felt like the plot was progressing too predictably and slowly in that too. I don't dislike stories namely for a slow pace, I think, but combined with the predictable plot, it was hard to engross myself fully in the book. There was way too much descriptive internal narration - it got repetitive sometimes when Kimberly kept obsessing over a problem and yeah she's got loads of problems but I'd think that that idea could have been put forth in a more interesting way... :/ Dialogue was very scarce even though Jean Kwok's dialogue was pretty good, so she really could have inserted more, ha ha. The plot predictably becomes like a Cinderella story for me. Of course I'm inspired by a girl's hard work and I admire Kimberly's humble intelligence and will to make a better life for herself and her mother, and she deserves a happy ending... I don't know, maybe I'm tired of such plots, maybe I'm frustrated that Cinderella stories almost always happen in one way like how Kimberly does it.... ...more In all honesty, this book was too short for me. the beginning, I liked, but in the end, i was really dissappointed. It made me go, \"What?\" because i mean, she was this good girl at the beginning, but suddenly became a boy crazy girl in the end. This really confused me. When she started getting interested in boys, the author failed to explain very much about it. Such as her first kiss or such. The author just said, \"I got excighted because I was doing something my mother told me not to.\" but why? In all honesty, this book was too short for me. the beginning, I liked, but in the end, i was really dissappointed. It made me go, \"What?\" because i mean, she was this good girl at the beginning, but suddenly became a boy crazy girl in the end. This really confused me. When she started getting interested in boys, the author failed to explain very much about it. Such as her first kiss or such. The author just said, \"I got excighted because I was doing something my mother told me not to.\" but why? The author should've put more emotion in it, and told everyone about what Kim's first kiss was like. The whole \"Boy crazy\" thing at the end confused me. Plus, shouldn't the author give more detail about her relationship with matt? I was awfully confused by how she fell so quickly for Matt. How did she realize it? Why? Those questions were going on through my head, and putting Vivian in was absolutely random. Ahh, and the sex scene. In all honesty, I've read fanfiction that has better sex scenes. I'm very sure that the author didn't want to make the sex scene so...descriptive since kids could be watching this, but I couldn't understand Kim's feelings in it. I was just sitting there, going .__. because all I knew was that she has sex with him. End. I want to know her feelings, in perfect detail, it didn't have to be rated, but just...Show more of her emotions. It all happened too fast. All in all, this book should've been longer. The ending made it seem as if the author was rushing to make the book end, and that the author didn't seem to know how to put emotions in the character. This book isn't the worst I've read, but it isn't the best ...more Girl in Translation is a walk in the shoes of Kimberly, a child immigrant caught in an exploitative labor trap upon arriving in America from Hong Kong. Because she is a uniquely gifted child, there is a chance of Kim escaping her crushing reality. Her story compassionately explores why and how she and others make momentous choices, and leads us to the brink of a pivotal moment in Kim's life. I liked the humanity of the characters. Most of Kim's confusion - at being immersed in a strange culture - Girl in Translation is a walk in the shoes of Kimberly, a child immigrant caught in an exploitative labor trap upon arriving in America from Hong Kong. Because she is a uniquely gifted child, there is a chance of Kim escaping her crushing reality. Her story compassionately explores why and how she and others make momentous choices, and leads us to the brink of a pivotal moment in Kim's life. I liked the humanity of the characters. Most of Kim's confusion - at being immersed in a strange culture - was navigated with stoic detachment. Without self-pity, she reports many personal events as a bewildered observer, not a participant. But, some playground rituals are truly bizarre, even from within the culture... I thought this comic paragraph was classic : \"The other boys and girls had just emerged from hating each other into a state of awkward interest, teasing and rude remarks. They were busy with cooties: catching them, getting rid of them and inoculating themselves against them. The transmission of cooties was an excuse for the boys to hit one another as hard as they could and to touch the girls. I had no idea what cooties were and often ended up as the recipient of all the cooties in the class. I'd been taught not to touch another person without permission, so it was hard for me to get rid of the cooties in my possession. Cooties were the one thing that transcended racial lines.\" ...more I can't do justice to this book, you need to read it for yourself. A novel told in the first person, it is a simple story. Eleven-year old Kim Chang and her mother come to Brooklyn from Hong Kong while they can. They work hard, live in desperate poverty, and are hurt by the family already in Brooklyn who should be helping them. Kim tries to be a good student despite the language barrier and students and teachers who treat her badly and contemptuously. After school, she helps her mother in her il I can't do justice to this book, you need to read it for yourself. A novel told in the first person, it is a simple story. Eleven-year old Kim Chang and her mother come to Brooklyn from Hong Kong while they can. They work hard, live in desperate poverty, and are hurt by the family already in Brooklyn who should be helping them. Kim tries to be a good student despite the language barrier and students and teachers who treat her badly and contemptuously. After school, she helps her mother in her illegal and obscenely low-paying sweatshop job from which she can't escape. Her mother never quite gets the hang of American language or culture, and Kim is her interpreter. She is a child who must behave as an adult much too soon, and doesn't always succeed at it. This is the story of her childhood in America. It is a story of love, pride, friendship, stereotypes, culture clashes, betrayal, and determination. The characters become real, and some of them I want to hug, some of them I want to slap, especially Mr. Bogart and Aunt Paula. It is written without sentimentality but with great heart. The story will stay with me for a long time, long after I've read and forgotten many other novels. ...more I had a hard time giving this book a rating. I keep going between and 2 and 3. I loved the first 85% of it and then hated the rest. I found the trials and perseverance of Kimberly and her mother very profound and it makes you grateful for the blessings you have. *SPOILER: I can't get over the dishonesty and immorality involved in the ending of the book. To have someone's child and not even tell them about it is disgusting and disgraceful. It ruined the character and the entire book for me. That I had a hard time giving this book a rating. I keep going between and 2 and 3. I loved the first 85% of it and then hated the rest. I found the trials and perseverance of Kimberly and her mother very profound and it makes you grateful for the blessings you have. *SPOILER: I can't get over the dishonesty and immorality involved in the ending of the book. To have someone's child and not even tell them about it is disgusting and disgraceful. It ruined the character and the entire book for me. That she would tell an old \"boyfriend\" and not even tell the father is terrible. Although it appears she is a loving and caring mother, what she did is unforgiveable, in my eyes. I was also very disappointed when Matt and Kimberly kissed after she dropped him off. For a married man to kiss an old love, or anyone for that matter, is inappropriate. I was disappointed in Matt for choosing to betray his wife this way. I know how I would feel if I found out my husband had met with and kissed an old girlfriend...especially while I was pregnant with his child. Unforgiveable, again. For this reason, I give the 2 stars. I really enjoyed the rest of the book. ...more", "Title": "Girl in Translation"},
