{"Comments": "MUST READ for all that love good book and Irish literature... :) This book got many awards (<---B>for very good reason</---B>) and the one that makes me very very very very proud of being its Serbian editor... Among my Top 15 titles I've signed as editor... :) True masterpiece! Although the history of Ireland is rife with dramatic events, there is none more tragic than the Great Famine. In the middle of the 19th century the Emerald Isle was hit by Phytophthora infestans - more commonly known as the potato blight - which also plundered crops across continental Europe, where the 1840's became known as the Hungry Forties. Thousands of people died of starvation as they did not have any other staple food source. But the continental famine is a drop in the ocean when it come Although the history of Ireland is rife with dramatic events, there is none more tragic than the Great Famine. In the middle of the 19th century the Emerald Isle was hit by Phytophthora infestans - more commonly known as the potato blight - which also plundered crops across continental Europe, where the 1840's became known as the Hungry Forties. Thousands of people died of starvation as they did not have any other staple food source. But the continental famine is a drop in the ocean when it comes to the effect the blight had on Ireland, where one third of the population depended exclusively on the potato as a sole food source: Approximately 1 million people starved to death, and a million more left Ireland for England, Scotland, Canada, Australia and the United States. Despite many people dying on ships sailing to the New World - mortality rates of 30% were not rare - emigration became almost a rite of passage: Women emigrated in the same numbers as men, and those who made it to the new country started a new life in a new land, and sent money to their families back home, allowing hem to emigrate as well. Landlords evicted the poor tenants en masse to avoid the responsibility of paying the rates for all of those who paid less than four pounds in yearly rent, effectively liquidating the small land plots and letting larger ones for over 4\u00a3. Few could afford that in time of such crisis, and during the worst part of the famine as much as 250,000 people left in one year; by the end of Ireland lost approximately one quarter of its inhabitants. Because of the famine and continued emigration the population of Ireland continued to decrease well into the second half of the 20th century. As tragic as the famine, there were things which made it a thousand times worse. At the time Ireland was in an union with Great Britain, together forming the United Kingdom. Relations between the Irish and the British Crown were strained,<---M> heightened by ethnic</---M>, religious and political tensions. Colonization and war brought Ireland under the British rule, to great resentment of many of its people who staged several open rebellions, oppressing land confiscation and the enforcement of the reformed Christian faith as practiced by the Anglican Church. Despite uprisings and protests the two nations were merged into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1801, and during the famine Ireland remained a net exporter of food despite people dying of starvation. Huge quantities of food continued to be exported to England: the export of livestock, ham, bacon and calves actually increased during the famine. The poor had no money to buy any food and the government did not issue any ban prohibiting the exports and did little to help the starving. The famine was literally the last straw for the people of Ireland as it strengthened Irish Republicanism and campaigns for autonomy and sovereignty, which reached its culmination in the election of 1918 and the overwhelming victory of Sinn F\u00e9in, which won over 70% of seats of Irish MP's in the British Parliament. Sinn F\u00e9in promptly established a national parliament in Dublin, and declared Ireland's independence as a republic. What followed was a war of independence, fought between the Irish Republican Army (more commonly known as the IRA) and the British government. The war ended with a truce in July 1921, and in 1922 both sides signed the Anglo-Irish treaty, which in effect partitioned the island between the two powers: it led to the creation of the Irish Free State, an autonomous dominion of the British Empire. The northern counties of the island almost immediately exercised their right to opt out of the new state, and chose to remain in the UK as Northern Ireland. In 1937 Irish citizens voted in a referendum to replace the 1922 constitution with a new one, ending the Irish Free State and declaring Ireland as a sovereign and fully independent from the United Kingdom. Ireland declared itself as a republic in 1949, removing King George VI as the constitutional monarch and severing its ties with the British Commonwealth. Relations between the two countries became strained once again in 1968 when nationalists and unionists crashed in Northern Ireland, beginning a three-decade long conflict known as The Troubles. Although the troubles officially ended with the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, sporadic violence and riots continue to occur to this day, and a series of barrier walls had to have been developed in Belfast and elsewhere in Northern Ireland to separate Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods, and keep Irish Nationalists from Ulster Unionists from each other's throats. Bloody history, eh? Now the two nations enjoy a common travel area without passport controls and sit next to each other in the EU. Despite conflicts and tension still present in Northern Ireland the time to brood over the Great Famine seems to have passed for good. Interestingly enough, for such a defining event it has inspired remarkably little literature, poetry and drama: there exist countless novels and narratives concerned with slavery in the United States, while the number of creative works about the Irish Famine pales in comparison. There's no Beloved , Roots or Huck Finn about the famine, which is especially weird considering the country's rich literary tradition. An event so tragic and full of political, social and religious conflicts, with roles all ready for the suffering Irish poor and the greedy Irish landlords and the greedy British aristocrats just begs for a drama proper. Which is where <---A>Joseph O'Connor</---A> enters the scene. Brother to the famous Irish singer Sin\u00e9ad O'Connor (who infamously ripped up a photo of pope John Paul II on SNL as protest against child abuse in the Church) and author of Star of The Sea . The eponymous Star is a coffin ship sailing for New York from Britain, hosting a whole poor house from Connemara and a couple of big fish, along with an American journalist and aspiring author and a mysterious solitary man on a secret mission. The adjective \"Dickensian\" gets thrown around a lot but here it fits perfectly, and the good man himself also makes an appearance in the text. O'Connor self-consciously apes the Victorian novel by presenting the text as written by Grantley Dixon, the American journalist, who in turn created his narrative from a multitude of sources: conversations, ship logs, diaries and letters. The book he wants to write follows the cruise chronologically, but is also filled with separate multiple threads which describe the background stories of the passengers before they left Ireland and England. Chapters are introduced by the title and a short summary of its events beneath - much like in serial novels of the time - and the book is filled with authentic illustrations from the period. The Star can be seen as a microcosm of Irish - or rather British, as it was at the time - society, but the novel's separate threads offer a vast scope of personal histories which begin way before their heroes boarded the ship. There's material for several separate novels in here, and the work is very consciously epic and manages to pull them all off and have all threads knitted together at the end. Difficult marine life on the ship, shades of Belfast and love in rural Connemara mixed with the corruption and abuse of the Irish aristocrats. The novel's polyphony of voices features people from all roads and classes of life. One of my favorite novels that I have read this year is Matthew Kneale's English Passengers , which I gave five stars and which earned its place on the shelf of my favorite books. Kneale's work also features a multitude of characters with their own distinctive voices on one ship and a fascinating voyage, destination and time - it's concerned with the English colonization of Australia and really is quite stellar. Similarities between The <+++>Star of the Sea</+++> and English Passengers end there, but it's a great novel about a tragic part of history which isn't written about very often. I doubt that those even remotely interested in Irish history will be able to resist this charm, but I am also sure that even those who know nothing about the period and country will find themselves picking it up with great interest. Besides being so many things, it's simply a well done yarn.<---F> Go ahead and pick it up</---F>. \u00c9irinn go Br\u00e1ch ! ...more A brilliant novel that roams far beyond the boundaries of the ship upon which it's set, <+++>Star of the Sea</+++> is a gripping tale of murder, revenge, cruelty and love set against the backdrop of The Famine. It's so well written that the complex structure of the book seems natural and the shifting perspectives of the narrative effortless. The three main characters are so well developed and realized that they command your attention from the first page, and the secondary characters are always more than me A brilliant novel that roams far beyond the boundaries of the ship upon which it's set, Star of the Sea is a gripping tale of murder, revenge, cruelty and love set against the backdrop of The Famine. It's so well written that the complex structure of the book seems natural and the shifting perspectives of the narrative effortless. The three main characters are so well developed and realized that they command your attention from the first page, and the secondary characters are always more than mere types. I was genuinely moved by this book, which really brought home the awfulness of The Famine, while somehow never becoming sentimental. I loved it. ...more This brought home to me more than any dry history could the extent of and devastating effects of the Irish Potato Famine in the 1840s. Through this novel I felt keenly the suffering of the Irish and the devastating effects of the Potato Famine. For many, thrown off their small plots of land by their heartless landlords, the way to escape their poverty and privation was to emigrate to America. This is the story of the 1847 voyage of a ship filled with emigrants: the \"Star of the Sea\" and her capta This brought home to me more than any dry history could the extent of and devastating effects of the Irish Potato Famine in the 1840s. Through this novel I felt keenly the suffering of the Irish and the devastating effects of the Potato Famine. For many, thrown off their small plots of land by their heartless landlords, the way to escape their poverty and privation was to emigrate to America. This is the story of the 1847 voyage of a ship filled with emigrants: the \"Star of the Sea\" and her captain and crew. One man from Connemara, Pius Mulvey, is forced to undertake the murder of impoverished Lord Kingscourt--David Merridith, an Englishman. Those who order him are members of a clandestine group of agitators, the \"Hibernian Defenders\" who hate how cruelly the landowners have treated their tenant-farmers. They say if Mulvey doesn't do the job, he himself will be killed. The story consists of the captain's log for each day at sea [28] and its events. As the journey progresses it becomes bleaker and more grim. Then various chapters give the backgrounds of Mulvey, Mary Duane whom he seduces, Mirridith and family, and many others. An American newspaperman, Dixon, is on board and writes from his point of view continuing after the ship reaches America, its difficulties with the authorities, until concluding on Easter 1916. The writing was gorgeous and amazing. The author waxed poetic on occasion. Sometimes the writing was strong and clipped. The story twisted and turned interweaving all these lives. A strong, vivid image taken from the description of when the Hibernian Defenders threaten Mulvey: \"He remembered their eyes, so frightened and convinced. The black stained sackcloth of the hooded masks they wore. The slashed out holes where their mouths appeared. They were wielding the tools of their livelihood, but as weapons -- scythes, mattocks, loys, billhooks. Now they had no livelihood left. Centuries stolen in one stunning moment. Their fathers' labour; their sons' inheritances. At the stroke of a pen, they were gone. Black and green fields. The green of the banner draped across the table, spattered with ribbons of Mulvey's blood. The glint of the weapon they had made him take, the fisherman's knife pressed to his chest, while they raged at him about freedom and land and thievery. The words SHEFFIELD STEEL etched into the blade. He could feel it now, in the pocket of his greatcoat, nestled to his lacerated thigh. He remembered the things they said they would do with that knife if he didn't stop whingeing about murder being too heavy to put on him. When they held him down and started to cut him, Mulvey screamed to be allowed to kill.\" A poetic description of the ocean: Maritime wreckage. Bone and driftwood. Darker now: the wind blasting and stopping, like exchanges on a battlefield when ammunition is low. Everything had a blue and shadowy look. Sometimes we \"heard\" voices of some of the passengers; each was distinct. The plot presented some as interviews, letters [even to misspellings and Irish dialect], an excerpt from a novel of the newspaperman, as songs or prayers. One chapter was a litany to the Virgin Mary; I could hear the frightened steerage passengers reciting the words. I could feel the captain was a compassionate Quaker through his writing. I really empathized with the characters and their conditions. I felt the stench and squalor of steerage conditions. I appreciated the long and detailed \"Notes & Acknowledgements\" at the end; I feel the reality and truth of the novel. ...more Every now and then a book comes along that I feel passionate about and Joseph O Connor's Star of the Sea is one of those books that tells the harrowing and tragic story of the Irish Potato famine of 1840's Ireland and the voyage of the coffin Ship Star of The Sea to America. I had read this book in 2011 and came across a hard back edition in a second hand book shop and just had to read this wonderful book again, I don't like re-reading books that I have loved as I always fear that I wont have the Every now and then a book comes along that I feel passionate about and Joseph O Connor's Star of the Sea is one of those books that tells the harrowing and tragic story of the Irish Potato famine of 1840's Ireland and the voyage of the coffin Ship Star of The Sea to America. I had read this book in 2011 and came across a hard back edition in a second hand book shop and just had to read this wonderful book again, I don't like re-reading books that I have loved as I always fear that I wont have the same experience second time around. But I found this book even better on the second read and perhaps came away getting more from the story. The story is beautifully layered and dense read, a mystery novel and a well crafted historical thriller, On board the ship hundreds of fleeing refugees and among them a maidservant with a devastating secret, bankrupt Lord Merridith and his family, and aspiring novelist a maker of revolutionary ballads, all braving the Atlantic in search of a new home. There are likable and dislikable characters and never a dull moment. All this took place in 1840s Ireland that decade in which a million of the Irish underclass died as a consequence of famine. This is such a realistic novel and depicts the Irish famine so well, the story is told in a series of flashbacks, letters, log entries and reminiscences. It is not a depressing novel and there is plenty of humour. The characters are extremely well drawn and the book has a wonderful sense of time and place. O Connor is a talented writer and this is historical fiction at its best. Highly recommended for lovers of mystery novels with quality history fiction as the backdrop. ...more Vrhunski roman starog kova pisan u maniru klasi\u010dnih britanskih romanopisaca, poput Dickensa. Izvrsno je do\u010daran duh te\u0161kog vremena za Irsku u vrijeme \"velike gladi\" kada su milioni Iraca umrli od gladi ili bje\u017eali u obe\u0107anu zemlju Ameriku. Roman se bavi potresnim sudbinama nekolicine Iraca koji putuju brodom Zvijezda mora, ali se retrospektivno upoznajemo sa njihovim tragi\u010dnim \u017eivotima me\u0111usobno povezanim neraskidivim vezama. Joseph O'Conor (ina\u010de brat slavne pjeva\u010dice Sinead) je izvrstan pisac Vrhunski roman starog kova pisan u maniru klasi\u010dnih britanskih romanopisaca, poput Dickensa. Izvrsno je do\u010daran duh te\u0161kog vremena za Irsku u vrijeme \"velike gladi\" kada su milioni Iraca umrli od gladi ili bje\u017eali u obe\u0107anu zemlju Ameriku. Roman se bavi potresnim sudbinama nekolicine Iraca koji putuju brodom Zvijezda mora, ali se retrospektivno upoznajemo sa njihovim tragi\u010dnim \u017eivotima me\u0111usobno povezanim neraskidivim vezama. Joseph O'Conor (ina\u010de brat slavne pjeva\u010dice Sinead) je izvrstan pisac koji vje\u0161to plete mre\u017eu radnje u koju vas neosjetno uvu\u010de i na koju ne mo\u017eete ostati ravnodu\u0161ni. Namjeravam uskoro pro\u010ditati i njegov roman Slapovi spasenja (Redemption Falls) \u010dija radnja se de\u0161ava u vrijeme Ameri\u010dkog gra\u0111anskog rata, ali ponovo se bavi sudbinama Iraca, putnika Zvijezde i njihovih nasljednika. Tema me je zainteresovala nakon nedavne posjete Irskoj gdje sam \u010dula malo vi\u0161e o tom jednom od najte\u017eih perioda u istoriji ove zemlje i zaista sam u\u017eivala \u010ditaju\u0107i ovaj roman. Od mene velika preporuka i \u010dista 5. ...more Despite historical fiction not being my thang , there is no doubt that O'Connor is an astonishingly accomplished writer. A book that will transport you back in time, to a wintry voyage in the mid-1880s, where a vengeful killer hides in plain view... I remember this novel being published in 2002, and can only think that I didn't read it at the time as I didn't feel its subject matter would've been of interest to me, my Irish history interest kicking in more in the 20th century. I have been thinking about reading it for a while though, and took the opportunity to pick up a second hand copy to read, as a book group I plan to attend is reading 'Redemption Falls', the novel which follows this one. I have to admit that while I liked the\u00a0book, I d I remember this novel being published in 2002, and can only think that I didn't read it at the time as I didn't feel its subject matter would've been of interest to me, my Irish history interest kicking in more in the 20th century. I have been thinking about reading it for a while though, and took the opportunity to pick up a second hand copy to read, as a book group I plan to attend is reading 'Redemption Falls', the novel which follows this one. I have to admit that while I liked the\u00a0book, I didn't love it. The\u00a0novel takes the form of an account of the voyage undertaken by the steamer in 1847, primarily 'written' by American journalist and aspiring novelist, G\u00a0Grantley\u00a0Dixon, returning to his homeland after witnessing the horrors of famine and eviction in Ireland. While depicting some of the harrowing scenes of everyday life in\u00a0steerage\u00a0on the ,'coffin ship', the novel tells the story of three main characters-Lord\u00a0Kingscourt, David\u00a0Merridith, a Galway\u00a0landlord emigrating with his wife and two sons to USA to\u00a0set himself up as an architect, Mary Duane, his nanny, and\u00a0Pius\u00a0Mulvey, a shady character sent\u00a0onboard\u00a0by a secret society to murder\u00a0Kingscourt\u00a0in revenge for the treatment of the population at the hands of his recently deceased father. Through testimonies, flashbacks and witness\u00a0statements, in addition to normal narrative, we piece together the pasts of each of the characters, and their links to each other, while, through the captain's log, follow the progress of the ship with its prevalence of death and disease, as it makes its way toward New York. There's no doubt that the novel is extremely well crafted, and the narrative is pieced together very well by O'Connor, but I think that for my tastes, it was just a little too intricately done. I've also no doubt that\u00a0historically speaking, the scenes portrayed both in Ireland and on-board are accurate, and they\u00a0were upsetting to read at times. I enjoyed many of the small touches, like Mulvey's meeting with Dickens, and found the medical treatments of the time very interesting. I was,\u00a0however, constantly looking forward to see how many pages I had left to read, wanting to finish the book, without having that feeling of wanting to find out what was going to happen. Perhaps my initial hunch on the book on publication was right? Go by the main body of positive reviews for this novel, but to be\u00a0honest, this wasn't really for me. ...more Star of the Sea is set amid the Irish potato famine of the mid-nineteenth century. My personal interpretation is that the book is more of a character study. The characters who make the voyage on the ship Star of the Sea to America. It isn't a story of hopes or dreams. There is no sense that reaching the destination will bring a good change. I guess I'm not entirely sure what the message was in this book which is an illustration of the confusing writing style and changing viewpoints. I was readin Star of the Sea is set amid the Irish potato famine of the mid-nineteenth century. My personal interpretation is that the book is more of a character study. The characters who make the voyage on the ship Star of the Sea to America. It isn't a story of hopes or dreams. There is no sense that reaching the destination will bring a good change. I guess I'm not entirely sure what the message was in this book which is an illustration of the confusing writing style and changing viewpoints. I was reading this book for the staff book group so I felt I had to finish it. The story seems to begin several times. The first half of the book tells the story of each character. There is Mary Duane who falls in love with a young David Merridith. There are the brothers Pius and Nicholas Mulvey. Two boys who couldn't be more different in personality. There is Dixon, Laura Markham, and Merridith again. This opening was the most difficult to follow, convoluted and pretentious way to begin a novel that I have ever had the misfortune to read. I felt that Joseph O'Connor was trying to demostrate his brilliance in the genre of literary fiction rather than write an interesting mystery. I should probably mention that the whole way through the book you know there is going to be a murder. Interpersed with all this is the Captain's log of the ship. So every once in a while you learn that more passengers have died in the steerage class from various diseases. The only part of the book that I actually enjoyed was the story of Pius Mulvey as he travels around nineteenth-century London committing many thefts that become increasingly ingenious and daring. It is his time in Newgate prison that was the most fascinating aspect of the book. During my degree, I specialised in literature of the city during the eighteenth and nineteeth century so I related to this part of the book because it drew on my prior knowledge. Sadly, this part of the book was perhaps only ten pages. The book, including the highly boring epilogue, was 405 pages long. I enjoyed perhaps ten of those. The only people who I can think will enjoy this book are those who read ridiculously pretentious literacy fiction or have a particular interest in the Irish potato famine. Perhaps you need to be a more serious reader to enjoy this. I'll be intrigued to hear what the rest of the staff in the book group think of this. Without a doubt, this book was not for me. I wonder if I should be concerned that my husband enjoyed reading it... http://www.thebookette.co.uk/ ...more A 400 page grim read that was difficult to penetrate. I would not have persevered were it not that a friend had asked me for my opinion on the book, and I had read that other reviewers had struggled with it initially. All that said, it is well written but takes a very long time to explain how the various characters are linked so reads as if it is jumping from one unrelated story to another for much of the first half. I struggled with the style of writing which, at times tries to reflect that of A 400 page grim read that was difficult to penetrate. I would not have persevered were it not that a friend had asked me for my opinion on the book, and I had read that other reviewers had struggled with it initially. All that said, it is well written but takes a very long time to explain how the various characters are linked so reads as if it is jumping from one unrelated story to another for much of the first half. I struggled with the style of writing which, at times tries to reflect that of the period, and uses several contemporary documents. There are no heroes, just humanity at its worst and suffering terribly with almost every character showing the black side of human nature, which is maybe what the author wanted to portray. If you get beyond half way, you will be compelled to finish the book, so persevere. Apparently, he has carried out comprehensive research into the period of the Irish famine and into the Coffin Ships, attempts to portray the real horror of the story on both sides of the Atlantic, and succeeds in this as the book is in part, factually accurate. Who is the real villain? It would appear to be unbridled human nature, but I'm not sure that the author would agree with me. ...more I have to say that this is a time when I really appreciate my book club. I ended up enjoying this book, but it was very slow going for a long time. If I hadn\u2019t been reading it for my book club, I believe I would have put it down toward the beginning and never gone back to it, but I am so glad that I felt obligated to read it and therefore finished it. My favorite part was the fictional description of how Charles Dickens got the information that led to his writing the book Oliver Twist. I was smi I have to say that this is a time when I really appreciate my book club. I ended up enjoying this book, but it was very slow going for a long time. If I hadn\u2019t been reading it for my book club, I believe I would have put it down toward the beginning and never gone back to it, but I am so glad that I felt obligated to read it and therefore finished it. My favorite part was the fictional description of how Charles Dickens got the information that led to his writing the book Oliver Twist. I was smiling through that whole short section of this book. Still smiling thinking about it. The writing is poetic & beautiful. Obviously well researched historical fiction. There is a mystery but what\u2019s revealed is not what ended up being most important to me. What fascinated me most were the development of the many interesting characters, and especially the impeccable descriptions of what it must have been like in famine stricken Ireland in the mid 1800s. ...more this book was amazing! a little difficult to get into at the start, but once the story unravels, it's difficult to put down. you get a great idea of what life was like in famine-stricken ireland in the mid-1800s through the back-stories of several intertwining characters. there's a bit of mystery as you're trying to figure out the reasons behind a murder on a boat full of irish emmigrants bound for new york. i love love loved this book and would love to read it all over again. OK, it's official -- I am not a fan of Joseph O'Connor. Granted, Star of the Sea is far and away a much better novel than Redemption Falls , but for me, O'Connor's method of stitching together a narrative by using pieces from supposedly contemporary material (all of which was written by him, of course) just doesn't work. There are bits of this novel which shine, the parts in which O'Connor really focuses on one character and develops him or her thoroughly. Supposedly this book was written by a jo OK, it's official -- I am not a fan of Joseph O'Connor. Granted, Star of the Sea is far and away a much better novel than Redemption Falls , but for me, O'Connor's method of stitching together a narrative by using pieces from supposedly contemporary material (all of which was written by him, of course) just doesn't work. There are bits of this novel which shine, the parts in which O'Connor really focuses on one character and develops him or her thoroughly. Supposedly this book was written by a journalist who had sailed on the Star of the Sea from Ireland to America in the midst of the famine, and as such is full of footnotes and other clarifications. Knowing that this is a novel, that sort of bothered me, and for me, it interrupted whatever flow O'Connor had managed to get going. I think I'd prefer a novel that's told in a more traditional way. Also I was left wondering what the point of the novel was. Sure, it reinforced how terrible the Irish had it at the hands of the landowners, and how many of them died from starvation and disease during the famine, and how terrible the voyage from Ireland to the US was -- at least for those in steerage. The first-class passengers had a much more comfortable journey, of course. But nothing much was resolved by the end, and the epilogue was entirely too long and full of details that just didn't much matter once the book was over. Others may love this book, but it just didn't do it for me. ...more I took this book on holiday to the wilds of County Donegal and it is fair to say that I lived every word. It filled my waking hours, my sleeping dreams and everything in between. Around every bend I saw the fleeting shadows of its characters; every ruin was the abandoned home of Mary Duane or Pius Mulvey; and every mouthful of potato tasted like a blessed gift. The historical backdrop of this novel is the Irish Famine, the immensity of this event being such that it colours the entire text: the p I took this book on holiday to the wilds of County Donegal and it is fair to say that I lived every word. It filled my waking hours, my sleeping dreams and everything in between. Around every bend I saw the fleeting shadows of its characters; every ruin was the abandoned home of Mary Duane or Pius Mulvey; and every mouthful of potato tasted like a blessed gift. The historical backdrop of this novel is the Irish Famine, the immensity of this event being such that it colours the entire text: the plot, the characters, the atmosphere. The story is concerned with a group of travelers who make the journey from Ireland to New York in 1847 on a ship called the 'Star of the Sea'. As such, the reader can pretty much guess what to expect with this novel... or can they? To see my full review please check out my blog at www.mybookaffair.blogspot.com ...more Description: Tragedy is a word too often used. Nevertheless, in Star of the Sea Joseph O'Connor manages to achieve a real sense of the tragic, as personal dramas of the most distressing kind play themselves out against the background of the Irish potato famine and the almost equal nightmare of the mass emigration that it caused. As passengers die of starvation and disease in steerage, a drama of adultery, inadvertent incest and inherited disease plays itself out in first class. O'Connor raises, Description: Tragedy is a word too often used. Nevertheless, in Star of the Sea Joseph O'Connor manages to achieve a real sense of the tragic, as personal dramas of the most distressing kind play themselves out against the background of the Irish potato famine and the almost equal nightmare of the mass emigration that it caused. As passengers die of starvation and disease in steerage, a drama of adultery, inadvertent incest and inherited disease plays itself out in first class. O'Connor raises, and does not attempt definitively to answer, real questions about responsibility and choice. Bankrupt aristocrat Meredith is emigrating, pursued by the hatred of his tenants and the memory of his mad-hero father. His children's nurse, Mary, has memories of lost love to torment her, as well as of the husband and child who died of hunger. And the ballad singer Mulvey has both his monstrous past and the certain promise that he will be tortured to death by the Liable Men should he not kill Meredith. Opening: All night long he would walk the ship, from bow to stern, from dusk until quarterlight, that sticklight, limping man from Connemara with the drooping shoulders and the ash.coloured clothes. 3* Yeats is Dead 3* The Thrill of it All 4* Vampyre Man TR Star of the Sea ...more Perhaps the most clich\u00e9d book I have read in years. A begorrah tale of Old Ireland. Terrible prose, and even worse dialogue. I've read many Irish novels, but this is the worst. Extremely disappointing, given all the positive reviews I have seen. It may be charming to people who don't have any idea of Irish history, or any idea of good storytelling. Have you ever seen Far and Away, PS I Love You, the Matchmaker, or any of those faux-Irish nonsense films? Well, this is so much worse. I only stayed Perhaps the most clich\u00e9d book I have read in years. A begorrah tale of Old Ireland. Terrible prose, and even worse dialogue. I've read many Irish novels, but this is the worst. Extremely disappointing, given all the positive reviews I have seen. It may be charming to people who don't have any idea of Irish history, or any idea of good storytelling. Have you ever seen Far and Away, PS I Love You, the Matchmaker, or any of those faux-Irish nonsense films? Well, this is so much worse. I only stayed reading until the end just so I could give a full opinion - and not have people saying \"well you never even finished it\". I did finish it, and the last few chapters were among the worst of the lot. And somehow he got commissioned to write a follow-up. Another terrible choice from the TV Book Club (formerly Richard & Judy's Book Club). ...more Maybe 3.5 stars. It started and ended slowly, but enjoyed the middle. Not my usual read, so actually glad to have read this for book club and looking forward to the discussion. I flipped between audio and print and definitely recommend this in print. There are too many points of view in the book to follow on audio. From my International Fiction Book Club blog: It was a cold, blustery, rainy evening. No, that\u2019s not the beginning of a novel, just the weather report from the International Fiction Book Club meeting of October 17, 2012. Star of the Sea by Joseph O\u2019Connor took center stage. Even though it was nasty outside, inside we had a pleasant conversation about a most horrible time in Irish history - the Great Famine. The seeming \u201cpresent\u201d of the novel takes place on the ship, The Star of the Sea, a freigh From my International Fiction Book Club blog: It was a cold, blustery, rainy evening. No, that\u2019s not the beginning of a novel, just the weather report from the International Fiction Book Club meeting of October 17, 2012. Star of the Sea by Joseph O\u2019Connor took center stage. Even though it was nasty outside, inside we had a pleasant conversation about a most horrible time in Irish history - the Great Famine. The seeming \u201cpresent\u201d of the novel takes place on the ship, The Star of the Sea, a freighter that is carrying 5,000 lbs. of mercury for the Alabama Mining Co. in 1847. Also on board are hundreds of would-be emigrants fleeing eviction and ruin for the promise of a better life in America. But the present tense is a misnomer. As one member commented, this is a sort of meta-fiction with various narrators including an omniscient voice, the Captain\u2019s log, various letters and passages from an unfinished novel by a character aboard the ship. This character is Grantley Dixon, an American journalist who puts together all of these pieces of the puzzle that make up the final voyage of what becomes a \u201ccoffin\u201d ship. He publishes this novel with the aid of an epilogue that clues in readers to the answers of some of the ship\u2019s mysteries on Easter Sunday, 1916, when he is in his nineties. So, we have a book within a book just as the ship\u2019s passengers could be said to comprise a microcosm of the Irish cataclysm in the mid nineteenth century. Coffin ship, since many die on the voyage. Puzzle, because as the ship moves closer to its destination we gradually find out more and more about the relationships that haunt the group of passengers to which we become familiar. David Meredith has been disinherited twice by his father, Lord Meredith, even though the estate has been sold to sheep herders. David\u2019s position in the House of Lords is no help in this matter and as we discover more about this man we see the embodiment of hypocrisy. Perhaps he represents English guilt. Only when he finds out he has six months to live does he attempt to help the sickly. His first love, Mary Duane, is now his maid and unaware of their true familial bond. Pius Mulvey, referred to as the \u201cghost\u201d, because of his habitual lurking about the deck, is the central character that ties together the disintegrating threads of both Irish families and society in general. He can be said to embody evil but he also absorbs evil. We know early on that a murder is about to take place. O\u2019Connor deftly fuses Dickensian style intrigue with parodies of both the Romance novel and Gothic suspense while adhering to the principle espoused by David Meredith, \u201cEverything is in the way the material is composed.\u201d History of the subject matter is gained through osmosis when the characters are delineated through their passions and fears. Everyone agreed that the form of this novel fit the subject matter and the epilogue only added to the nineteenth century feel. Thumbs up unanimously. ...more Set against the background of the Irish famine in the year 1847, with writing that is at times beautifully evocative of the time, this novel is worth the read;if you persevere with it. The reason I've added the caveat at the end of that sentence is simple. The book doesn't really get going until a third of the way through. The pace suffers due to constant switching between perspectives. For example, for five or ten pages we hear the story of Pius Mulvey, followed by a letter written by Lord King Set against the background of the Irish famine in the year 1847, with writing that is at times beautifully evocative of the time, this novel is worth the read;if you persevere with it. The reason I've added the caveat at the end of that sentence is simple. The book doesn't really get going until a third of the way through. The pace suffers due to constant switching between perspectives. For example, for five or ten pages we hear the story of Pius Mulvey, followed by a letter written by Lord Kingscourt. This switching back and forth between various characters continues for far too long. It is only when we are told of Pius Mulveys descent into crime and degeneration that the book really came alive, with an almost Dickensian feel to the words on the pages. Fantastic characterisation, story which held onto me and seemed unwilling to let go and language which quite brilliantly brought to life the smells, visions and sounds surrounding the main characters, all helped to speed the story along and make it a damned good read. Another achievement of O'Connor was conveying the plight of both those who were affected by famine and those who were travelling in steerage on the Star of the Sea; the listing of passengers who had perished in steerage was a clever means of aiding the latter. The style of writing reminded me in some ways of Cloud Atlas by David Mitchell. Writings from a variety of sources and in a number of different styles looked to me like self indulgence - 'look at what I can do as an author, aren't I fantastic?!' Where Cloud Atlas succeeded and this book did not was that the former left a cliffhanger at the end of each chapter. This not only ensured that the reader remembered the events of that chapter, but made it a more addictive read. Conversely, Star of the Sea wove the various sources of material and the different characters tales more tightly into a single, cohesive story. This is a book that has a place on anyones shelf, with flashes of brilliance that would be hard to find elsewhere. I loved both the character of Pius Mulvey and the telling of his story. The barrier between this being a very good book and being a great book, or even a masterpiece, was the writers leap from character viewpoint to character viewpoint, often at intervals which were far too short for the reader to become engrossed. This was a deep shame, as the language and characterisation was unusually good;its just that the writers self indulgence got in the way of a good story and the pace at which it reads. ...more This is \"historical fiction\" that is historical only in the most general sense. The author creates many footnotes and sources in the text which are fictional. The narrator of the book is Grantley Dixon, an American journalist, albeit, not very successful. The story revolves around David Meredith, Lord Kingscourt, whose estate in Connemara, is bankrupt, Pius Mulvey, a dark character throughout, and Mary Duane, a former tenant of Meredith, and current nanny. The story is set in winter 1847, during This is \"historical fiction\" that is historical only in the most general sense. The author creates many footnotes and sources in the text which are fictional. The narrator of the book is Grantley Dixon, an American journalist, albeit, not very successful. The story revolves around David Meredith, Lord Kingscourt, whose estate in Connemara, is bankrupt, Pius Mulvey, a dark character throughout, and Mary Duane, a former tenant of Meredith, and current nanny. The story is set in winter 1847, during the Irish famine. The ship's steerage is filled with impoverished famine victims, many of whom don't survive the voyage. There is also a First Class section, where Meredith, his wife and two sons are traveling. This novel which came out in 2002 was a world-wide success. Terry Eagleton wrote in his 2003 Guardian review, that aside from Liam O'Flaherty's novel Famine, and a contemporary play by Tom Murphy, the famine has not been a subject in Irish literature. Since Eagleton's review, however, there have been at least three more Irish novels Transatlantic by Colum McCann, The Fall of Light by Niall Williams and Nuala O'Faolain's My Dream of You, not to mention a host of books for young readers. However, O'Connor's novel was ground breaking being the first since O'Flaherty's 1937 novel. Eagleton's review is also interesting for its discussion of Irish reticence to discuss the famine which led to one million dead, and another million fleeing Ireland http://www.theguardian.com/books/2003... I read this book 10 years ago, but on rereading it was struck again by the writing. O'Connor constructs a compelling and engrossing story. There is foreshadowing from the beginning of the book, as we know the characters include a murderer and a victim. A deftly wrought tale that will leave you wanting to read more. ...more This is a terrific work of literature, and I'm not sure why everyone hasn't been talking about it. It was mistakenly shelved in the Nautical Fiction section of my local used bookstore (further evidence of its image problem). It's true that there is a boat involved, but really the book is about the Great Hunger in Ireland and the emigration to America that it spawned. This book is an example of the ways that literature can sometimes be the most effective vehicle to understand history, but its his This is a terrific work of literature, and I'm not sure why everyone hasn't been talking about it. It was mistakenly shelved in the Nautical Fiction section of my local used bookstore (further evidence of its image problem). It's true that there is a boat involved, but really the book is about the Great Hunger in Ireland and the emigration to America that it spawned. This book is an example of the ways that literature can sometimes be the most effective vehicle to understand history, but its historical mission (and clearly a lot of research went into this book) in no way compromises the really compelling character development and fascinating narrative structure. This is a great book, and I'm glad to have read it. ...more Excellent storyline and a thoroughly enjoyable read. There are a lot of characters in it so it takes a while to get into it but once you do its a real page turner of a book and even though its set in one of the most miserable times of Irelands history the story itself doesnt wallow in that misery and at times is actually quite funny and uplifting with lots of touching human tales. If you have never been to the West of Ireland its portrays a good picture of what life was like there in the 19th ce Excellent storyline and a thoroughly enjoyable read. There are a lot of characters in it so it takes a while to get into it but once you do it\u00b4s a real page turner of a book and even though it\u00b4s set in one of the most miserable times of Ireland\u00b4s history the story itself doesn\u00b4t wallow in that misery and at times is actually quite funny and uplifting with lots of touching human tales. If you have never been to the West of Ireland it\u00b4s portrays a good picture of what life was like there in the 19th century and if you have been to and know Connemara then it\u00b4s even more enlightening as you recognize some of the names and places it talks about. A highly informative, entertaining and well written story. I loved it. ...more This book had me sucked in right from the start. Great characters, a good mystery and an interesting though tragic time in Ireland and Englands history. A very intersting narrative style too which helped keep the historical context alive as well as illustrations from the time period. I received a copy of Star of the Sea as a Christmas present from a good friend from Ireland and I was really excited to start the book \u2013 I am always happy to read books I receive from friends, as for me, they are the most special kind of recommendation. I was really looking forward to reading this book and my excitement was completely justified because I loved every page of this novel. Star of the Sea gives us a glimpse into one of the darkest and most horrible periods in Irish history \u2013 the Grea I received a copy of Star of the Sea as a Christmas present from a good friend from Ireland and I was really excited to start the book \u2013 I am always happy to read books I receive from friends, as for me, they are the most special kind of recommendation. I was really looking forward to reading this book and my excitement was completely justified because I loved every page of this novel. Star of the Sea gives us a glimpse into one of the darkest and most horrible periods in Irish history \u2013 the Great Famine of the 1840-1850s. Through the connected stories of a few characters, Joseph O\u2019Connor does a masterful work in showing us the political and economical background of the time, the way people have suffered and survived this horrible period, and, as a main motif and very important element in both history and the plot \u2013 the coffin ships. Reading about all this suffering and about the thousands of lives left to the mercy of the elements and to starvation made my hear break again and again. While reading these pages I could not believe there has been a period of our civilized world\u2019s history when things like this have been allowed to happen. This is a book I would recommend to anyone ever asking for an unputdownable and emotional read. It is a book I will remember for a long time and an author I will surely read more from! In my opinion, the strongest characters in this book were those of women, as it actually often happens in real life in times of disaster. Mary Duane, who survived so many losses over the years, but kept her sanity, dignity and strength no matter what. Her mother, who went through similar circumstances, but still served as a strong pillar in Mary Duane\u2019s and other characters\u2019 lives. And we shouldn\u2019t forget Verity Merridith either, who with her charity work, her big heart and her neverending will supported a big number of poor and hungry people on their land. Compared to this, the male characters seemd weak, always seeking something and uncertain of what that something might be. They often seemed out-of-place, not belonging neither here, nor there, and once the strong women behind them were gone \u2013 things started going downhill very fast. Joseph O\u2019Connor weaves the stories of his characters and the events of this novel masterfully and with incredible talent. The book is built in a way that reminds the reader of a case study or the work of a investigating journalist using different documents and recollections of events. The end result is a collection of letters, documents, novel chapters, interviews, that put together a complicated jigsaw and give us a perspective of the whole picture, the whole story. All this, while still managing to give us an unexpected ending that comes as a slap. Joseph O\u2019Connor has a reserved place in my TBR from now on and I really look forward to reading something else by him. ...more The highlight of 2012 would have to be discovering Joseph O Connor. The book is about fleeing refugees on their way to New York. I really loved this book, and especially the character of Pius Mulvey. When I read it, I thought it was a classic from Victorian times especially because Charlie Dickens and Ellis Bell, the author of Wuthering Heights are roaming the streets and robbed by Pius Mulvey. He's my favourite character; brave, clever, misunderstood, tortured, starving who \"would talk the rain The highlight of 2012 would have to be discovering Joseph O Connor. The book is about fleeing refugees on their way to New York. I really loved this book, and especially the character of Pius Mulvey. When I read it, I thought it was a classic from Victorian times especially because Charlie Dickens and Ellis Bell, the author of Wuthering Heights are roaming the streets and robbed by Pius Mulvey. He's my favourite character; brave, clever, misunderstood, tortured, starving who \"would talk the rain out of wetting him\" p273 Joseph O Connor is a great writer. I found no pointless words or banal page fillers and descriptions of meaningless things. Every word was there for a reason. I read this book at the beginning of also a bitter winter in London, skint myself too and volunteering with refugees at the time. I could relate to many of his socialistic ideas and in writing about poverty he gives these people integrity:\"amongst those so poor that they deserve no shame, shame lasts even longer than life. Humiliation their only inheritance, and denial the coinage in which it is paid \".. words I found in this book that I liked: \"Crestfallen\" \"Shebeens, crossroad dances, ceilidhs, poteen sessions,\" \"and yet could there be silence? What did silence mean? Could you allow yourself to say nothing at all to such things? To remain silent was to say something very powerful : that it never happened: that these people did not matter. They were not rich. They were not cultivated. They spoke no lines of elegant dialogue; many, in fact, did not speak at all. They died very quietly. They died in the dark. And the materials of fiction- bequests of fortunes, grand tours in Italy, balls at the palace- these people would not even know what those were. They had paid their betters' accounts with the sweat of their servitude but that was the point where their purpose had ended. Their lives, their courtships, their families, their struggles; even their death, their terrible deaths- none of it mattered in even the tiniest way. They deserved no place in printed pages, in finely wrought novels intended for the civilized. They were simply not worth saying anything about\". P130-131. What is Paris of the blaskets? Joseph O'Connor's beautiful description of London is a known phenomenon: \"...until the fallow fog parted like the curtains of some gargantuan theater, and there stood London, city of cities. Majestic in the dusk, biblically colossal, for all her millions of twinkling lights,forlorn as a faded prima donna in borrowed jewellery. Stupefied Mulvey could not even speak. The diva might have dubious origins, but already he was conquered\" p183. I have heard similar descriptions from my father of the very cold winters of WW2 and American bombers (sometimes a thousand of them together) returning to England after raids over Germany, in their poorly heated planes but flying back at 20,000 feet in bright sunshine would make them feel just a little bit warmer. They would look ahead at all of England stretched out below and ahead of them, but completely hidden under a thick blanket of rainy clouds. They would know that soon they would have to descend through those clouds into bitterly cold rain and subzero temperatures on the ground at dozens of different airfields. The pilots would often jokingly point to the darkest and rainiest clouds below and say, \u201cthat must be London.\u201d Lots of inspiring moments, when the ship arrives and docks in the east end of London \"the sailors chuckled with their waiting wives and put his gait down to a case of poor sea-legs. But the diagnosis was wrong. The voyager was love-drunk. He hoped he would never be sober again\"p 183 ...more Really I picked up this book because it was on sale (only $3.95!) and because the cover blurb mentioned something about a monster stalking the decks of a ship, at night. So naturally I thought it would be about vampires. Really, there should be some kind of government inquiry into book jacket blurb writers because needless to say this book has nothing to do with vampires. OK, possibly I am obsessed with vampires, but what would you think the word \u201cmonster\u201d is meant to represent, particularly whe Really I picked up this book because it was on sale (only $3.95!) and because the cover blurb mentioned something about a monster stalking the decks of a ship, at night. So naturally I thought it would be about vampires. Really, there should be some kind of government inquiry into book jacket blurb writers because needless to say this book has nothing to do with vampires. OK, possibly I am obsessed with vampires, but what would you think the word \u201cmonster\u201d is meant to represent, particularly when associated with \u201cnight\u201d? (Apart from werewolves, maybe). Lack of vampires not withstanding, this book was actually very absorbing. When I am trying to recommend a film to someone, I might say \u201cI wouldn\u2019t mind paying full price for that\u201d or \u201cCheap Tuesday flick, man\u201d or \u201cWait for it on video, bud\u201d or just a bald \u201cDon\u2019t bother\u201d. I think Star of the Sea classifies easily as a Cheap Tuesday book, possibly even a \u201cWouldn\u2019t mind paying full price\u201d, so feel free to ask for a lend of my copy. The Star of the Sea is actually about the Irish potato famine. There are many characters involved, one of whom is a poor Irish peasant who has been appointed the task of murdering an Irish aristocrat on the trip over the Atlantic to America. Though the present-day plot is set on board, there are many flashbacks, in order to highlight who the characters are and how they got that way. It is very successful in showing the reality of the famine and how shocking it must have been; also the realities of travelling by ship back then and how yucky that must have been; also also some of the realities of immigration, and how enormous a decision this must be. There is even a bit of post-modernism in there (I think it\u2019s post-modernism, anyway, you post-modernists will have to tell me) where the aspiring author character despairs of writing a novel about the famine because it is impossible to write about something so terrible. And yet \u2013 we are reading a novel about the famine!! How post-modern. The book is written as if it is a \u201cpiecing together of the facts\u201d, well after the events occurred, and so is written from many different viewpoints and includes parts written as the Captain\u2019s Log, unpublished memoirs or fiction by some of the characters (drawing heavily on actual factuals, of course) and so on. Also, in between each chapter the author has included an extract from letters written by Irish immigrants to the US. Chapters are subheaded things like \u201cIn which are sketched certain recollections of The Star of The Sea; the condition of her passengers and the evil which stalked among them\u201d. (Seriously, stalking evil-doers? That can only mean vampires!). I found this all a bit of overkill and distracting from the story; I think it would have worked much better had the author left out all the frilly clever bits. All the chopping and changing made the story seem a bit overworked and diminished its credibility, rather than adding to it. I think the author did A Lot Of Research for this book and By Gad He Was Going To Use It All. Still \u2013 it did make me stay up past my bedtime. ...more Bu y\u0131l okudu\u011fum en iyi romanlardan biri. - Yazar ele ald\u0131\u011f\u0131 d\u00f6nemi iyi ara\u015ft\u0131rm\u0131\u015f. Okuru ger\u00e7ekten oralara g\u00f6t\u00fcr\u00fcyor. \u0130rlanda toplumunun b\u00fcy\u00fck k\u0131tl\u0131\u011fa do\u011fru giderken ne halde oldu\u011funu, soylu ve halk ili\u015fkilerini g\u00fczel yans\u0131tm\u0131\u015f. - Konuyu i\u015fleme bi\u00e7imi \u00e7ok ilgi \u00e7ekici: Farkl\u0131 karakterlerin g\u00fcnl\u00fcklerinden, k\u00f6\u015fe yaz\u0131lar\u0131ndan ve denemelerinden olu\u015fan, b\u00fct\u00fcnl\u00fckl\u00fc bir derleme izlenimi veriyor roman. - Her karakterin kendi \u00f6zg\u00fcnl\u00fc\u011f\u00fcn\u00fc, ya\u015fam tarz\u0131ndan kaynakl\u0131 geli\u015ftirdi\u011fi refleksleri, \u00f6zlemlerini ve zaaf Bu y\u0131l okudu\u011fum en iyi romanlardan biri. - Yazar ele ald\u0131\u011f\u0131 d\u00f6nemi iyi ara\u015ft\u0131rm\u0131\u015f. Okuru ger\u00e7ekten oralara g\u00f6t\u00fcr\u00fcyor. \u0130rlanda toplumunun b\u00fcy\u00fck k\u0131tl\u0131\u011fa do\u011fru giderken ne halde oldu\u011funu, soylu ve halk ili\u015fkilerini g\u00fczel yans\u0131tm\u0131\u015f. - Konuyu i\u015fleme bi\u00e7imi \u00e7ok ilgi \u00e7ekici: Farkl\u0131 karakterlerin g\u00fcnl\u00fcklerinden, k\u00f6\u015fe yaz\u0131lar\u0131ndan ve denemelerinden olu\u015fan, b\u00fct\u00fcnl\u00fckl\u00fc bir derleme izlenimi veriyor roman. - Her karakterin kendi \u00f6zg\u00fcnl\u00fc\u011f\u00fcn\u00fc, ya\u015fam tarz\u0131ndan kaynakl\u0131 geli\u015ftirdi\u011fi refleksleri, \u00f6zlemlerini ve zaaflar\u0131n\u0131 \u00e7ok g\u00fczel ele alm\u0131\u015f. Kolay ka\u00e7\u0131p da saf k\u00f6t\u00fcler, saf iyiler yaratmam\u0131\u015f. \u00d6zellikle Dixon ve Merridith'in s\u00f6z d\u00fcellosu yapt\u0131\u011f\u0131 sahneler bir harika. B\u00fcy\u00fck a\u00e7l\u0131k herkesi biraz \u00e7\u00fcr\u00fct\u00fcyor, herkesin i\u00e7inde biraz iyilik var. Bu bak\u0131mdan Orhan Kemal'in \"Bereketli Topraklar\"\u0131na benzettim. - Kitab\u0131n \u00e7evirmeni S\u00fcha Sertabibo\u011flu \u00e7ok g\u00fczel bir i\u015f \u00e7\u0131karm\u0131\u015f. Elinde \u0130rlanda aksan\u0131 bol bir \u0130ngilizce metin varken, hi\u00e7 teklemeden, ak\u0131c\u0131l\u0131\u011f\u0131 hi\u00e7 bozmadan, dilini her karakterin tarz\u0131na uydurarak \u00e7evirmi\u015f. Tebrikler. \u0130rlanda'daki 1847-48 a\u00e7l\u0131\u011f\u0131 bir halk\u0131n tarihinde d\u00f6n\u00fcm noktas\u0131. \u00dczerine biraz bilgi edindikten sonra okumak daha da faydal\u0131 olabilir. Bundan 130 y\u0131l sonra IRA'y\u0131 do\u011furacak tohumlar\u0131n daha o zamanlar at\u0131ld\u0131\u011f\u0131n\u0131 g\u00f6rmek m\u00fcmk\u00fcn. ...more I haven\u2019t done much these last few days because I\u2019ve been so totally engrossed in this larger than life novel set aboard a sailing vessel in 1847 at the height of Ireland\u2019s potato famine. Rich in period detail, multi-dimensional characters, historical fact and vivid descriptions of what life was like for thousands of poor who were forced off their land because there was no money to pay their landlords, the novel moves back and forth from small villages along Ireland\u2019s western coast, to the broth I haven\u2019t done much these last few days because I\u2019ve been so totally engrossed in this larger than life novel set aboard a sailing vessel in 1847 at the height of Ireland\u2019s potato famine. Rich in period detail, multi-dimensional characters, historical fact and vivid descriptions of what life was like for thousands of poor who were forced off their land because there was no money to pay their landlords, the novel moves back and forth from small villages along Ireland\u2019s western coast, to the brothels and slums of London, to the posh first class cabins and crowded and disease ridden steerage section of the \u201cStar of the Sea\u201d on its 28 day journey across the Atlantic to New York. O\u2019Connor is a masterful writer who uses multiple voices to tell a story that\u2019s hard to put down. He uses a variety of narrative forms, including the captain\u2019s log, diary entries, newspaper clippings, letters, songs, and personal narratives, pulling everything together by making it a story within a story written years later by one of the characters in the novel. On one level the book is a mystery, since we know from the outset that one of the steerage passengers, Pius Mulvey, has a mandate to kill first class passenger Lord David Merridith, the landlord responsible for evicting thousands of starving tenants from his estates. It\u2019s definitely a page turner because of the way the plot unfolds, weaving together intriguing back stories for each of the major characters who we get to know quite well by the end of the voyage. O\u2019Connor himself is from Ireland and writes about the rugged coastal landscape as only someone who is familiar with it can do. And it\u2019s clear that he has carefully researched the period in order to paint such a vivid picture of the horrors that took place there during the mid-19th century. All this is especially interesting to me, not only because we\u2019ve been to Ireland several times but also because my husband\u2019s relatives left there in 1848 on a ship very much like the \u201cStar of the Sea\u201d and under the same circumstances as those depicted in the novel. Most likely our relatives, Darby and Johanna O\u2019Dea, were also steerage passengers who had to endure the unimaginable conditions that O\u2019Connor has written about so compellingly. So I thought of them frequently while I was reading this unforgettable novel. I also tracked down the author\u2019s website where he has written a fascinating account of how he came to write the novel ( http://www.josephoconnorauthor.com/fo... ) And I understand that he has also written another book that takes place 18 years after \u201cthe Star of the Sea\u201d docked in New York. It\u2019s called Redemption Falls and I\u2019ve already added it to my list. ...more A wonderfully well woven tale of history, love and murder presented in a novel way, as a book within the book. The narrator of our story is G. Grantley Dixon an American newspaperman and passenger aboard The Star of the Sea traveling from Ireland to America in November of 1847. Traveling in first class with Dixon are the Earl David Merridith of Kingscourt, his wife Countess Laura, their two young sons and Mary Duane who they employ as their nanny. Aboard the Star traveling in steerage, with many A wonderfully well woven tale of history, love and murder presented in a novel way, as a book within the book. The narrator of our story is G. Grantley Dixon an American newspaperman and passenger aboard The Star of the Sea traveling from Ireland to America in November of 1847. Traveling in first class with Dixon are the Earl David Merridith of Kingscourt, his wife Countess Laura, their two young sons and Mary Duane who they employ as their nanny. Aboard the Star traveling in steerage, with many who are escaping the poverty of the potato famine, is Pius Mulvey our murderer, who is presented to us in alternating views. One human, vulnerable and lonely the other hateful conniving and evil. He is a smart man and in his youth begins composing and performing songs to earn a few shillings. 'Mulvey began to ponder something that would come to obsess him. Singers were admired by almost everyone; they were annalists, chroniclers, custodians, biographers. In a place where reading was almost unknown they carried a local memory like walking books.' He later travels to London where he hones his skills as a thief and a con man. I loved the passage devoted to chronicling the various words for thieving. 'The English possessed as many words for stealing as the Irish had for seaweed or guilt. With rigour, with precision and most of all with poetry, they had categorised the language of thievery into sub-species, like fossilised old deacons baptising butterflies. Every kind of robbery had a verb of it's own. Breeds of embezzlement he never knew existed came to him first as beautiful words. Beak-hunting; bit-faking; blagging; bonneting; broading; bug-hunting; buttoning; buzzing; capering; playing the crooked cross; dipping; dragging; fawney-dropping; fine-wiring; flimping; flying the blue pigeon; gammoning; grifting; half-inching; hoisting... Stealing in London sounded like dancing and Mulvey danced his way through town like a duke.' The writing was lovely as was the story telling. We go back in time and discover the hardships of our main characters with vivid detail, through those stories the author creates a real sense of the passage of time. I really enjoyed this book, it's dark and brooding, historical and moving with an unusual narration and a few surprises as well. The ending was a little bit different from what I expected but not necessarily disappointing. ...more This novel has made it onto my rather slim list of favourite reads this year; it has certainly raised the bar of my expectations of historical fiction. The quality of writing, the rich soup of firmly believable characters all intertwined and seemingly doomed by their connections, the choice of narrative styles, the feeling of low tragedy told as high adventure, the ravaging journey which is somehow preferable to the shuffling starvation that has overwhelmed Ireland, the murder mystery told almos This novel has made it onto my rather slim list of favourite reads this year; it has certainly raised the bar of my expectations of historical fiction. The quality of writing, the rich soup of firmly believable characters all intertwined and seemingly doomed by their connections, the choice of narrative styles, the feeling of low tragedy told as high adventure, the ravaging journey which is somehow preferable to the shuffling starvation that has overwhelmed Ireland, the murder mystery told almost backwards , building a quite astonishing tension\u2026 I am firmly smitten with O\u2019Connor\u2019s style, which grants a rapport between the reader and the meanest, lowest character within the pages \u2013 whoever you might deem that person to be. The Star of the Sea sets sail for America bearing its handful of first-class passengers and its steerage section crowded with destitute, starving Irish men and women; some bearing a murderous resentment for Lord Meredith, fleeing bankruptcy with his wife and their two sons, for his perceived role of evicting landlord. The family\u2019s maid, Mary Duane sails with them, her cargo a personal history that embroils Meredith (no saint, but a strangely sympathetic sinner) with Pius Mulvey, a prison escapee who, despite his back-story of abhorrent misdeeds, is also more compelling to the reader than repellent; such is O\u2019Connor\u2019s gift for character. Also aboard is the book\u2019s \u2018author\u2019, American journalist (and aspiring novelist), Grantley Dixon, lover of Laura Meredith, whose presence torments Lord Meredith equally for the man\u2019s relentlessly touted social conscience, and relationship with the Earl\u2019s wife. Entwined with the unfolding drama, like another character, is the atmosphere of a famished Ireland and her people, and the conditions those lucky enough to be fleeing to a new life must survive or perish more miserably, perhaps, than if they had remained on shore, and the way the one tragedy colours the story, motives, and drama of the other is O\u2019Connor\u2019s primary accomplishment here. ...more<---C>Joseph O'Connor</---C>", "Title": "Star of the Sea"},
