{"Comments": "DUMA KEY BY STEPHEN KING: Most <---A>Stephen King</---A> fans will admit that the last couple of novels by the international bestselling author,<---M> while selling well</---M>, have been somewhat lacking coming from the renowned horror writer; one might even go so far as to use the term \u201cmediocre,\u201d and don\u2019t get me started on Cell. Thankfully, with the arrival of <+++>Duma Key</+++>, the slate has been wiped clean and the master of horror is back! King\u2019s first novel set in his alternate home of Florida weighs in at over six hundre DUMA KEY BY STEPHEN KING: Most Stephen King fans will admit that the last couple of novels by the international bestselling author, while selling well, have been somewhat lacking coming from the renowned horror writer; one might even go so far as to use the term \u201cmediocre,\u201d and don\u2019t get me started on Cell. Thankfully, with the arrival of <+++>Duma Key</+++>, the slate has been wiped clean and the master of horror is back! King\u2019s first novel set in his alternate home of Florida weighs in at over six hundred pages, and while it reveals a more laid-back and matured author, with the terrifying days of The Tommyknockers and It perhaps over; Duma Key is nevertheless an incredibly well written novel with some wonderfully deep and complex characters, and a world that is just as complicated but in many more ways real. Enter <---C>Edgar Freemantle</---C>. An entrepreneur who started a construction company and developed it into a multi-million dollar business; loving husband of two adult daughters; until he is involved in a freak on-site accident that should\u2019ve killed him, but leaves him missing his right arm, a couple of slowly healing broken ribs, and a damaged mind that results in outbursts of anger and violence. The strain becomes too great and Freemantle\u2019s marriage falls apart, leaving him an angry, empty shell. Seeking escape, he leases a beautiful house on the island of Duma Key. While watching the breathtaking sunsets, Freemantle decides to try his hand at some artwork, having sketched a little throughout his life. He discovers the more he works, the better he gets, soon switching to paints and canvasses; he also discovers that painting satisfies the seemingly insatiable itch in his missing right arm. Freemantle\u2019s work is of the sunsets and the beautiful coastline, along with the occasional abstract object added in to offset it; he is eventually tagged as an American Primitive, but as more and more people discover his work, they are amazed by it and at his first gallery showing all works listed for sale are sold. But beneath the art, there is a sinister plot at work, because this is after all a Stephen King novel. Freemantle discovers a psychic ability in his work, painting items he should know nothing about, as well as the eventual power to paint events that come to fruition: whether it be the restoring of blindness, or the forced suicide of a serial killer. And then there\u2019s something wrong with the sold paintings: death follows them. The plot thickens, deepens, and becomes darker as the enigmatic history of Duma Key is discovered. It seems Freemantle isn\u2019t the only person in its history to come to the island with a fragile mind and a special ability expressed through art. Then there\u2019s the south side of the island which has become an overgrown and seemingly impenetrable jungle. The last time Freemantle and his daughter, Ilse, took a trip headed in that direction, Ilse immediately felt nauseous and horrible sick, while Freemantle felt the insatiable familiar itch that grew to an unstoppable buzzing; upon driving back north, they mysteriously found their ailments disappearing. Clearly something evil and powerful doesn\u2019t want them getting to the south of the island. Duma Key is not just a novel for the fans, but a cathartic response from King over his near-death accident in 1999; no doubt he relived his agonizing recovery while writing about Freemantle, and yet it is because of this firsthand experience, that Duma Key feels much more personal and empathetic. Also being King\u2019s first foray into his new sometime Florida home, one might think his fellow Floridians a little unhappy on this introduction, or being Stephen King, they may feel the opposite and expect this. Regardless, Duma Key is a welcome return of the great horror writer, with an extra development of character and setting that King seems to have discovered in his later years, making this book one of his best, and one of my personal favorites. For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter . ...more Every single page is like a lover touching my cheek...sometimes it's a caress, and sometimes it's a slap...but every page, every word , has a profound impact upon me. I'm in the middle of the book, and I'm terrified to finish it, but I can't stop turning the pages... ...<---F>Just finished it</---F>. I heard one reviewer state that it was the best book King had ever written. While reviewers have short memories and liberal use of hyperbole, I must admit that this was one of his best he's written. While not epic Every single page is like a lover touching my cheek...sometimes it's a caress, and sometimes it's a slap...but every page, every word , has a profound impact upon me. I'm in the middle of the book, and I'm terrified to finish it, but I can't stop turning the pages... ...Just finished it. I heard one reviewer state that it was the best book King had ever written. While reviewers have short memories and liberal use of hyperbole, I must admit that this was one of his best he's written. While not epic like The Stand , It , or The Dark Tower , it is powerful, insightful, and terrifying. Also, the fact that the book is not epic is one of its greatest strengths. One of King's self-indulgences in the past couple of decades has been his ability to use 1000 pages to write a 500 page story. Remember that Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption and The Body were both just novellas. In Duma Key, King uses each of the 607 pages with power and efficiency. Another of King's self-indulgences has been his treatment of Bryan Smith, the man who hit him during his walk and nearly killed him. That same man died a year later from a prescription drug overdose. I remember being especially uncomfortable of King's incorporation and depiction of the accident as a key element in one of his stories. (I HATE spoilers, so either you know what I'm talking about or you don't.) It got to the point where I really started to dislike the man, Stephen King. I mean, c'mon, let the dead rest. But in this book, King delves into the aftermath of being broken and how being broken made him act and say things that simply were not of his character. Noticeably in this story, King only refers to the crane that causes the accident that crushes Edgar Freemantle and sets everything in motion, and he never once speaks of the driver. Later in the story as Edgar tests his newfound talents, the test results in the death of a child molester. Now, while the bastard certainly had it coming to him, Edgar is overwhelmed with a sense of power, horror, fear, and guilt. In this narrative, I believe that King is trying to work through the aftermath of his own brokenness and how it changed him, most noticeably in his treatment of Bryan Smith. And an interesting thing happened...I found that I had forgiven King's spite and nastiness during this period of pain and healing. Finally, King puts to words so well what it is like to be broken...what it's like to not be yourself and be the monster and victim at the same time...and what it's like to look back on the wake of relationships that will never be the same again. Having gone through this myself (and I'm not out of the woods yet) I found myself weeping in sections where King's script perfectly put to words the hopelessness, frustration, and loneliness of a broken person. In this book, I found a bit of my own healing realizing that I'm not the only one to have dealt with this and coming to terms with the fact that it's not my fault. Was this Stephen King's best book? I honestly don't have an answer. All I know is that it has had a bigger impact on me than any other work of fiction I've ever experienced. ...more And this is why adults shouldn\u2019t play with dolls\u2026 Edgar Freemantle used to be the quintessential American success story. He was a self-made millionaire who built a thriving construction business, and he had a long and happy marriage which produced two daughters. However, Edgar\u2019s good luck ran out one day when he had a brutal run in with a crane at a job site that cost him an arm, screwed up a leg, and cracked his skull. The brain trauma left his eggs slightly scrambled and made him prone to fly i And this is why adults shouldn\u2019t play with dolls\u2026 Edgar Freemantle used to be the quintessential American success story. He was a self-made millionaire who built a thriving construction business, and he had a long and happy marriage which produced two daughters. However, Edgar\u2019s good luck ran out one day when he had a brutal run in with a crane at a job site that cost him an arm, screwed up a leg, and cracked his skull. The brain trauma left his eggs slightly scrambled and made him prone to fly into furious rages that his wife couldn't endure so the accident also ends his marriage. While trying to recover from his injuries and the divorce Edgar decides to relocate to Florida and indulge in his long dormant hobby of drawing and painting pictures. Edgar rents a house at isolated Duma Key on the Gulf Coast where the gorgeous views and long walks on the beach inspire him to amazing artistic achievements and a rapid recovery of his health. In fact, Edgar\u2019s progress in both areas could be termed as too good to be true if not downright spooky. I read this for the first time shortly after it was originally released in 2008, and at that time I was intrigued by the story of a damaged man turning to art to heal his body and mind which is a subject that King has intimate knowledge of after being run down by a car. (King wrote movingly about it in the non-fiction On Writing .) However, I found the supernatural stuff lacking, and I\u2019d kinda wished that King had written just a straight up character piece about a guy discovering a latent talent following a tragedy. Since then I\u2019ve seen what happens when King tries his hand at a non-horror genre piece ( Mr. Mercedes ) so I no longer think that would have been a good idea. Overall, I found myself more intrigued this time by the supernatural aspects and less enamored of the story about Edgar\u2019s recovery and development as a painter. This is probably because I\u2019ve find myself more sensitive to the tics of his that I dislike which this has several of. First is that there\u2019s a general lack of focus. King has always been willing to throw the kitchen sink at a reader, but he really seemed particularly unwilling or unable to pick a path and stick to it here. There\u2019s elements you see from other stories like Dead Zone with a brain injury leading to weird abilities and there\u2019s the ghost story in an isolated locale like The Shining as well as bits and pieces from other King works. All of this leads to the typical case of King bloat where it seems like a couple of hundred pages could have easily been shaved from the finished product. The character of Wireman is a prime example of something else I\u2019ve grown irritated with in King\u2019s work where he creates wise and quirky characters and then fills their mouths with overblown dialogue. Here, Wireman frequently refers to himself in the third person, sprinkles his conversations with Spanish jargon, and he\u2019s full of meaningless sayings that are treated as profound by Edgar. Seriously, if someone ever told me, \u201cDo the day, muchacho! And let the day do you!\u201d then I\u2019m going to flip them off and walk away. Which is a shame because there was much about Wireman in this best friend role other than the way he constantly expressed himself that I really liked. Another King trope that has increasingly irked me in recent years in his habit of creating situations where the characters are fighting the clock but then waste huge amounts of time talking instead of acting. In this one there\u2019s a point near the end where hell is gonna be unleashed at sunset which is coming fast, and yet Edgar feels that\u2019s the ideal time to sit the other characters down and tell them a long rambling story about what he\u2019s discovered. And then of course they find themselves screwed at sunset. How about for once you let them get the job done and save story time for afterwards, Uncle Stevie? However, despite these gripes I did enjoy this book. King hits the melancholy tone of Edgar, a middle-aged man with a broken home and broken body, perfectly. Doing one of his stories on a bright Florida beach rather than the spooky Maine woods was a nice change of pace, and it fits the way that there\u2019s an underlying tension to all of it. There\u2019s also an extremely wicked irony at play here in that most of the stuff happening seems like a good thing rather than evil. Edgar is healing and he\u2019s creating amazing art, and he even uses his newfound abilities to do some good. You can see how he\u2019s willing to push aside any warning signs because so much of what is happening to him is legitimately changing his life for the better without any of the usual dark down side you\u2019d immediately see in most horror books. It\u2019s not quite as good as I found it in 2008, but it\u2019s still one of the better later era King novels. ...more It was red.... This must be King's most underrated book, and I've no idea why. Maybe because it was released in 2008 and maybe horror wasn't as cool then and it kind of slipped through the cracks. Feels weird calling a book with 70k ratings underrated, but there you go. I've never heard anyone say that Duma Key was up there with the best of King's works. After finishing this I certainly will be! If this was released earlier in King's career, would it be mentioned as one of his greatest? Maybe... It was red.... This must be King's most underrated book, and I've no idea why. Maybe because it was released in 2008 and maybe horror wasn't as cool then and it kind of slipped through the cracks. Feels weird calling a book with 70k ratings underrated, but there you go. I've never heard anyone say that Duma Key was up there with the best of King's works. After finishing this I certainly will be! If this was released earlier in King's career, would it be mentioned as one of his greatest? Maybe... This book is creeeeeepy and original. The ending is also superb, which isn't always the case in King's books (see Under the Dome!). More than anything, King's ability to create memorable characters and dialogue shines through. You need to sit in the chum, sit in the buddy and read this you stupid birch!! All the stars and perhaps one of my top three King books...which is saying something! Do the day, and let the day do you! ...more How jacked up is it that I'm going to say I find Stephen King comforting? Yep. Pretty jacked up. Then again, I've been reading him since I was a pre-teen (or tween, I think that's the proper term for it these days). Anyway, when the R.L Stine and Christopher Pike seemed a bit immature, (no offense to those authors, I LOVED them as a kid!) I turned to King. He's what I know. (insert joke about my psychological issues here) After all these years, he still manages to weave a fantastic tale. So, to not g How jacked up is it that I'm going to say I find Stephen King comforting? Yep. Pretty jacked up. Then again, I've been reading him since I was a pre-teen (or tween, I think that's the proper term for it these days). Anyway, when the R.L Stine and Christopher Pike seemed a bit immature, (no offense to those authors, I LOVED them as a kid!) I turned to King. He's what I know. (insert joke about my psychological issues here) After all these years, he still manages to weave a fantastic tale. So, to not give the whole story away, I'll say this: A man named -------- suffers a brain injury and loses an arm in an accident - he gets hit by a --------. He gets away from his failing marriage in ---- and heads to Duma Key, where he can recover and ------- in peace. There, on the island, he discovers he has amazing talent for drawing and painting. He creates surreal, haunting art that eventually causes problems. Really BIG PROBLEMS. Like ----------!!! Naughty, EVIL, art! Anyway, he meets ----- and ------. Gets an art exhibition. Makes ------. Then --------- tells him to get ------- off the island to and NEVER ----------------. So then --------- happens and he has to ---------- with a few of his new island friends and -------. So they go to ---------- and he brings --------- and the next thing you know they see ----------, which is totally fucked up! But then he -----------, so that ----------. Awesome. AWESOME! Thank you again, Mr. King., for another great read, and for always being that warped, scary, \"happy place\" for me. ...more Wrap Pet Sematary in a Bag of Bones and you'll have Duma Key . Revenants, creepy dolls, paintings that fix the broken, and enough tragedy to fill a swimming pool with tears is what you'll find within these pages. The scene at the end with [name deleted because spoilers] is one of the creepiest heart-rending scenes I've read. The descriptions are so well written. It truly is masterful. The sand coming off her fingers... Well, I guess you had to have been there. Those of you who have read Duma Key Wrap Pet Sematary in a Bag of Bones and you'll have Duma Key . Revenants, creepy dolls, paintings that fix the broken, and enough tragedy to fill a swimming pool with tears is what you'll find within these pages. The scene at the end with [name deleted because spoilers] is one of the creepiest heart-rending scenes I've read. The descriptions are so well written. It truly is masterful. The sand coming off her fingers... Well, I guess you had to have been there. Those of you who have read Duma Key will know of what I speak. This book also has one of my favorite secondary characters ever to show up in a King novel. Wireman beats out Trashcan Man for the top honor. I like Wireman. He's a cool dude. Moreover, I could read banter between him and Edgar all day and never get bored of it. If you are one of those who have not felt the draw to read this book, or have never been able to finish it, I really wish you would. The level of imagination on display here is impressive. King wrote over 50 novels before this one. Keep that in mind. To still give this much of a shit about his craft after writing that many doorstops... Dude, it's just mindboggling. Finally, there are far too many tie-ins to the Dark Tower universe to name here (especially where the number 19 is concerned) but I feel the most important are the obvious ones. Roses pop up in a lot of Edgars paintings, and Edgar shares the same gift as Patrick, The Artist from the final book. At one point in the book, Edgar thinks of life as a wheel, and there's mention of his daughter hearing a woman talking inside a sink drain. For those of you hardcore Tower junkies, you can go to King's website (link below) and check out all the times 19 shows up, or you can read the bit I copied and pasted below. Your choice. Link: http://stephenking.com/darktower/conn... Submitted by Zack: \"There are several references to the Dark Tower Series. Edgar refers to himself as a \"gunslinger\" (pg 433). One of Edgar's major works is \"Roses Grow from Shells.\" His ex-wife tattoos a rose onto her breast. Roses are also mentioned several times in the novel. The main antagonist wears a red robe similar to that of the Crimson King. His daughter's name ( Ilse Marie Freemantle) has 19 letters in it. Edgar's E-mail is EFree19 and his real estate agent's is SmithReality9505, both of which have numbers the amount to 19, which constant readers will recognize. Along with these other \"19's\", the first big storm (or \"Alice\") occurred in 1927, which when added together makes 19; and the flight he takes to Florida is flight 559. Pam's room number is 847 which added together is 19. Edgar's artistic abilities seem to parallel those of Patrick Danville, especially the ability to remove things from reality by drawing and then erasing them. Nan Melda loses two fingers on her right hand on a beach, which also happens to Roland Deschain at the beginning of the Drawing of the Three. Charley the Lawn Jockey (pg 568) shares the name of Charlie the Choo Choo, and the root \"char,\" meaning death, also echoed when Edgar thinks about having people sit in the \"char\" when he has to think sideways to mean \"chair\". In one passage of the book, Edgar compares life to a wheel, in the sense of always coming around to the beginning, one of the main philosophies of the Dark Tower. The idea that drawings or paintings can change reality is another recurring motive.\" In summation: This book is packed with the magic of storytelling. It always surprises me when I hear King fans saying the didn't like this one. I honestly believe it is one of his best. Final Judgement: Art. ...more Awful. Cloyingly sentimental, forcedly folksy, sloppily written. At first I was hoping that he was doing this on purpose, using the unrealistic dialogue and the instant bonding of the characters to turn it around on us, make us look back and see it as creepy eventually, but it's just bad writing. The characters don't act like people, they act like characters in a Stephen King novel. When they develop psychic powers, nobody even blinks, and everybody immediately understands how they work...becaus Awful. Cloyingly sentimental, forcedly folksy, sloppily written. At first I was hoping that he was doing this on purpose, using the unrealistic dialogue and the instant bonding of the characters to turn it around on us, make us look back and see it as creepy eventually, but it's just bad writing. The characters don't act like people, they act like characters in a Stephen King novel. When they develop psychic powers, nobody even blinks, and everybody immediately understands how they work...because these are the things that would happen in a Stephen King novel. To an extent he's earned a lot of leeway, and he's still a great natural storyteller, so there's nothing preventing you from reading it; it's not the kind of awful where you can't force yourself to read another page. (Thus two stars.) But it's just poor work on all sorts of levels. Here's something that particularly bothered me. Maybe it's quibbling, but an editor should have caught this, if not the author. The first person narrator uses the word \"febrile\" on page 248; first time it's appeared in the book. On page 249, another character uses it in dialogue. It's an uncommon enough word that the reader notices (especially since it's out of character for the regular-guy narrator). If it were ultimately going to be revealed that it's all taking place in the narrator's head, it would be a good, if sort of obvious clue, but because it isn't, it's just a reminder that it's all taking place in the author's head. Which, you know, it's sort of his job to avoid. ...more In Duma Key Stephen King taps into extreme mid-life crisis and although he stirs it in a bubbling vat of macabre, the core, non-magical, element remains. What is one to do with one\u2019s life? Edgar Freemantle struggles with redefining himself after having faced near-death trauma, having lost not only his right arm but some of his mental function, and, oh yes, his marriage. Have a nice day. Luckily for him, and conveniently for the author, he has been a very successful contractor and, having socked In Duma Key Stephen King taps into extreme mid-life crisis and although he stirs it in a bubbling vat of macabre, the core, non-magical, element remains. What is one to do with one\u2019s life? Edgar Freemantle struggles with redefining himself after having faced near-death trauma, having lost not only his right arm but some of his mental function, and, oh yes, his marriage. Have a nice day. Luckily for him, and conveniently for the author, he has been a very successful contractor and, having socked away rather large sums, he can afford to take a giant step away from the rubble of his life. Eager to heal both body and mind, Edgar opts in to a large beach house on the lightly populated Duma Key. This being Stephen King, the beach house and the island itself come with more than just sun, sand and surf. In short order Freemantle discovers that his amateur\u2019s ability for drawing has blossomed into a world class talent for painting. Edgar continues to experience sensations in the missing arm, and that feeling seems to connect him with inspiration for his creepy, if inspired canvasses. There are dark forces at work, and the paintings Freemantle is cranking out have a little extra in them. Down the beach he meets the elderly Elizabeth, owner of most of the Key, and Wireman, her caretaker. The three strike up a fast friendship. Elizabeth\u2019s past is at the center of this tale. Expect creepie crawlies, a few shivers, a puzzle to be figured out, good friends working together to try to do just that, and a powerful resident evil. This is a fast-paced book. I hated to put it down. It was fun to read, and scary enough. King has a particular fondness for children in his stories, and does not disappoint here, offering not only chapters in which the narrator is a child, but characters both immediate and historical that fit the bill. Also, Freemantle\u2019s own children, while adult, or near-adult, still qualify because of how he feels about them. I did not think that Duma Key was one of his best works. But garden-variety Stephen King is better than most in this genre. He is readable, enjoyable, and taps into enough reality to lend emotional substance to his spook stories. A few other SKs we have reviewed Under the Dome The Shining Lisey's Story Doctor Sleep ...more I've read a lot of King. I read a lot of King, and this is among his best. I know some people feel that after his accident he lost his touch for the creeping horror that made him famous, but I assure you that is not the case. This book proves that King not only still has it, he's still improving. I listened to this on audio, and I'm sure that lent something to the suspense, but I'm very glad that I did. (I downloaded from Audible, and each part was preceded by music that is creepy on its own. I' I've read a lot of King. I read a lot of King, and this is among his best. I know some people feel that after his accident he lost his touch for the creeping horror that made him famous, but I assure you that is not the case. This book proves that King not only still has it, he's still improving. I listened to this on audio, and I'm sure that lent something to the suspense, but I'm very glad that I did. (I downloaded from Audible, and each part was preceded by music that is creepy on its own. I'm not sure if the audio CD's are the same way.) Listening to this made me pace myself, and made sure that the build-up was properly built up. I have a tendency to speed-read when I get excited, when I know I hold something great in my hands and want to experience it as quickly as possible. I couldn't do this with the audio, and so the anticipation piled up until I had to finish, regardless of the fact that it's now 4:19a and I have to work tomorrow. John Slattery's reading was just about perfect. He had this great tone, a feeling for the story, and a subtle way of lending personality to the characters that makes them come alive. King obviously gives him a lot to work with and build on, but I don't know if another reader would have done the book justice the way Slattery did. I could tell exactly who was speaking at all times, even before he got around to telling me who it was, yet he didn't make the characters HIS characters, if that makes sense. He just gave them life. His reading of Perse (this is how I'm assuming it's spelled, as I haven't seen it in print) gave me goosebumps, and I think will haunt me for a long time. This book contained more than a few of the things that creep me out the most. But I couldn't stop listening. I loved the aspects of Elizabeth's childhood history. That part of the story fascinated me. I also felt that the book brought back pieces of other books that King has written, making it a part of the larger universe that links his stories together. -Perse's red robe, and the mentions of red throughout the story brought the Crimson King to mind. Could she be the Crimson King's consort, maybe? -Perse speaking to Ilsa from the drains and toilet obviously brings IT to mind. -Edgar's ability to create (and uncreate) through his art. King does this with every story he writes, but I kept thinking specifically of Peter Rickman from Kingdom Hospital and Patrick Danville from The Dark Tower series and Insomnia. -Edgar's accident and injuries acting almost as a muse/catalyst for his artistic ability, as Peter Rickman's did, as King's own did, if you consider the shift his stories took after his accident. How the ability seemed to flow through him, but was not invented BY him. (Maybe I'm reading too much into this, but these are the things I was thinking of...) -Wireman not only mentioning that he's a gunslinger, but actually being a gunslinger, if only temporarily. I have no doubt that had he made his way into that section of the SK Universe, he'd have found 5 missing members of his Ka-tet. Anyway, I found much to love in this book, and I have a feeling it will become a favorite. I would highly recommend it. ...more Negro es la ausencia de luz, pero blanco es la ausencia de memoria, el color de no poder recordar. Duma Key es un libro incre\u00edble . Es uno de mis favoritos de Stephen King (s\u00ed, ya s\u00e9, tengo muchos de \u00e9l, pero todos lo valen). Me encant\u00f3 el modo de narrar los hechos, te absorbe fuertemente en la trama. En cuanto a los protagonistas puedo decir que son de los mayores atractivos. Jerome Wireman es uno de mis favoritos de todos los libros que le\u00ed. Elizabeth no se queda atr\u00e1s; qu\u00e9 personaje tan et\u00e9reo Negro es la ausencia de luz, pero blanco es la ausencia de memoria, el color de no poder recordar. Duma Key es un libro incre\u00edble . Es uno de mis favoritos de Stephen King (s\u00ed, ya s\u00e9, tengo muchos de \u00e9l, pero todos lo valen). Me encant\u00f3 el modo de narrar los hechos, te absorbe fuertemente en la trama. En cuanto a los protagonistas puedo decir que son de los mayores atractivos. Jerome Wireman es uno de mis favoritos de todos los libros que le\u00ed. Elizabeth no se queda atr\u00e1s; qu\u00e9 personaje tan et\u00e9reo. Pero en especial quiero resaltar al susodicho Wireman. Se van a encari\u00f1ar sobremanera con \u00e9l. La vida es como la telenovela un viernes. Te crean la ilusi\u00f3n de que todo va a resolverse, y entonces el lunes vuelven a retomar la misma mierda de siempre. Es una historia en la que el arte toma un papel protag\u00f3nico y amenazador . En la que cada pincelada define el destino. Cada trazo es poder, y el poder puede volverse contra uno si no se lo trata con cuidado . Una novela de tragedia y misterio; de terror y sometimiento; de arte y magia . En fin, un libro extraordinario. Es uno de los mejores trabajos de Stephen King y lamentablemente no es tan conocido. Tiene un muy buen final. Al final, siempre terminamos por desgastar nuestras preocupaciones. Eso es lo que Wireman dice . ...more Dosta dobar roman. Ni jedno poglavlje nije imalo prazan hod i ni na sekundu se nisam dosa\u0111ivao. Ima u njemu elemenata iz \u201eDeperation\u201c, \u201eShining\u201c, \u201eBag of bones\u201c ali su svi povezani u jednu lepu celinu tako da nisam imao problem sa onim \u201eda sam to ve\u0107 negde pro\u010ditao\u201c. Karakterizacija je vi\u0161e nego odli\u010dna i svaki lik ima svoju dubinu. Stanja kroz koja su prolazili Edgar i Elizabeth su fantasti\u010dno opisana. Slike uop\u0161te nisam imao potrebe da zami\u0161ljam koliko je sve bio precizno. Kako se jeza polako Dosta dobar roman. Ni jedno poglavlje nije imalo prazan hod i ni na sekundu se nisam dosa\u0111ivao. Ima u njemu elemenata iz \u201eDeperation\u201c, \u201eShining\u201c, \u201eBag of bones\u201c ali su svi povezani u jednu lepu celinu tako da nisam imao problem sa onim \u201eda sam to ve\u0107 negde pro\u010ditao\u201c. Karakterizacija je vi\u0161e nego odli\u010dna i svaki lik ima svoju dubinu. Stanja kroz koja su prolazili Edgar i Elizabeth su fantasti\u010dno opisana. Slike uop\u0161te nisam imao potrebe da zami\u0161ljam koliko je sve bio precizno. Kako se jeza polako uval\u010dila u glavne junake nisam ni ja ostao imun naslu\u0107uju\u0107i da svi zajedno idemo ka ne\u010dem veoma u\u017easnom. Jedna stabilna \u010detvorka od mene. ...more I suppose firstly, I should admit that Stephen King is the man who has shared my bed the most after my husband. That got to the point where, right around \"Black House\" hubby made a complaint about having to share me in bed with Mr. King and I never brought a book to bed again unless I was all by my onesies. Since I was a preteen Mr. King has always been there for me in his own weird existential way. Through marriages, births, deaths, moving, depression, great highs of life and everything in betw I suppose firstly, I should admit that Stephen King is the man who has shared my bed the most after my husband. That got to the point where, right around \"Black House\" hubby made a complaint about having to share me in bed with Mr. King and I never brought a book to bed again unless I was all by my onesies. Since I was a preteen Mr. King has always been there for me in his own weird existential way. Through marriages, births, deaths, moving, depression, great highs of life and everything in between he's been right there sitting on the shelf or on my lap. The silent witness to everything I've ever experienced. Always ready and willing to offer me an escape when I needed it just like a good pal should. The title of the book; for those of you wondering what kind of a key that is\u2026.it's one off the coast of Florida. As in the Florida Keys. Not a special key to a spooky door or something like that. It's the masterfully told story of Edgar Freemantle, one-time construction company owner turned artiste. It's also the story of Jerome Wireman and Elizabeth Eastlake, two very wonderful characters. Edgar and Jerome have more than just a shading of Red and Andy in them and I love that. If you've never read a Stephen King book before start with this one, if you've read them all get this one because you'll love it even more. It's not King at his terrifying horrifying best. Not the King that keeps you up all night wondering what's going to happen and worst of all, what's that moving in the corner of the bedroom? As I said, more like the King who wrote \"Shawkshank Redemption\", \"Green Mile\" and \"Stand by Me\" (a/k/a \"The Body\" original short story title). That's not to say it doesn't have its creepy parts, most of it is pretty creepy/odd/weird but not overly so not like, say, Pennywise or Cujo. This is a really good Camp Fire Story\u2014not that I'd know, I've never been camping, but had I at least once sat around a camp fire and heard a tale spun out for me, I imagine it would be a lot like this one\u2026but shorter. It's like\u2026it's like\u2026it's like walking out a local convenience store and seeing someone you haven't seen in years sitting there smiling at you, as though they knew you were there and they were waiting for you to come out. When you do he slings an arm around your shoulders and says; hey, long time no see. How the hell are ya? I know it's been a while but look, I got something to show ya. You're gonna love it. C'mon walk with for a little bit, it's just up the road, right up there and around the corner\u2026in the dark. I have to say that I love him most when he tells a story that involves one of two things or both; 1- an creative person as the central character; a writer or as in Edgar's case a budding painter and 2- a child/children as main player(s). He's always good for having kids in his stories and I think he uses them masterfully because no matter how bad it gets, how scary or creepy or outright gross! That underlying air of innocence always remains it is there just as surely as the crazy clown, rabid dog, and pets raised from the dead are there. The juxtaposition is genius and he uses it better than anyone I've ever read. Back to that first one; the writer, the artist, the creative individual. I love those characters best because I identify with them and not just because they're a writer but because he puts so much of himself and the Creative Process into the character. Only someone who truly gets way far into the Zone can know what that's like. Only they know the hunger, the absolute ravenous hunger that comes after. Only they know the bone tiredness of it that settles over you with the crash. He talks about them openly. Sort of like I do here from time to time. The Truth, my friends and neighbors, the Truth. Above everything else, no matter how hard it gets or how ugly it becomes always tell the Truth of the story or paint the Truth of the picture. You will be greatly rewarded in the end. This is a major lesson I have learned from him over the years and which was reinforced in this latest novel with such ferocity and tenderness that it often brought a tear to my eye as I read or I found myself nodding my head saying; yep, you got it, Steve, you got it. Over the years there have been many times when I swore he looked into my head, plucked something out, said; that looks interesting, and put it into a story. Then I realize I'm not unique and neither is whatever the experience was, it's probably just something we've all gone through in one way or another, something that binds us all together as human beings. Good old Common Ground. That's another he's great at finding and weaving into the tale he's telling. There are a few things that are hard for the Reader to take in this book but then again Life is full of bitter little pills that we have to swallow, like it or not. It seems that no one is more acutely aware of this than my old buddy, my pal. With most he does a very good job of preparing the Reader beforehand\u2026kudos, Steve especially where a certain daughter is concerned. Even though you know its coming and you don't have to experience it.\u2014he's kind enough to spare you that and just tell you about it after it happens\u2014it still stings, a lot. I kept hoping he was going to find a way to reverse it even though after all these years I know that's not really his style. Hope is a dangerous thing, so sayeth Red, so sayeth we all. Then, of course, there's the last little twist of the knife. It's only about six words long but I bawled my eyes out at the end of this story and I'm misting up now just thinking about it. Ah, the hallmark of a well told tale; the emotion lingers long after the second cover has been closed. I sat there with it, hugging it tightly for a while and thinking about all the characters I'd just met and the things I'd gone through with them. As with most King stories there is also that last little ray of hope, that glimmer, that shimmer, in the dark that tells you no matter what happens, no matter how hard or how bad it gets it will get better, the sun will shine again eventually and we'll all be ok in the end. I learned a new saying with this story and I kinda like it. Do the day and let the day do you. I might adopt that as my new attitude. What more can I say except\u2026.read this book! Don't wait for the paperback. Go. Now. Get it. Read it. What are you waiting for? ...more This book is a return to King in his classic style. The writing was tight and concise, umlike some of his 90s material which tended to ramble a bit. He claims to be writing more slowly as he ages, and tyhis is working in his favor. This book capitalizes on the author\u2019s ability to create likable characters that we care about, foreshadow tragedy, and establish settings that can drive the story when the plot lags. The story focuses on Edgar, a protagonist that has suffered a tragedy and goes to an i This book is a return to King in his classic style. The writing was tight and concise, umlike some of his 90s material which tended to ramble a bit. He claims to be writing more slowly as he ages, and tyhis is working in his favor. This book capitalizes on the author\u2019s ability to create likable characters that we care about, foreshadow tragedy, and establish settings that can drive the story when the plot lags. The story focuses on Edgar, a protagonist that has suffered a tragedy and goes to an island off the coast of Florida to recuperate. The island, of course, is not the relaxing vacation which it first appears to be. The setting comes to life through the author\u2019s trade mark variety of techniques that apply to the five senses. Seashells scrape beneath the house like skeleton bones; the island appears deserted except, of course, for one old woman at the other end of it. Anyone that has a daughter or is a daughter will relate to Illy, the protagonist\u2019s daughter. Marriage, tragedy and familial relations weave into the pot until they become an integral part of the story even for hardened horror buffs. Even the supporting characters (including the late introduced ones) quickly appear round and lifelike. Reading this book reminds me that we are in the presence of a modern master that will be studied for many years to come. He is already appearing in literature textbooks in our classrooms. As I spent my late July nights turning these pages, I was reminded of college days spent reading this author\u2019s novels unable to put them down. There were parts of the story that slowed down, particularly in the center of the storyline. At times I took breaks and returned to this and with a little patience my attention was hooked again. The author\u2019s talent carries a lagging story when it has to. Soon enough the story hooked me into its momentum quickly enough and the story wraps in a fashion that only a master storyteller can do, building crescendo as it climbs. Many of this author\u2019s novels in the 80s and 90s began to read like the movie was already in his mind when he was writing. This book reads like a writer that is in the late years of his career and is enjoying the talent he has been given. ...more I'll have to mirror fellow reviewer and friend, Edward Lorn on this one because, as he pointed out, this novel did strike me as a mix between Pet Cemetery and Bag of Bones. King did a great job with the character development and plot line. Unlike Bag of Bones, which felt a little weak for me, Duma Key was laid down with great depth and power. If I had a complaint, and what keeps me from giving it 5 stars, is that after following this deep drama for so long, the climax seemed a little silly in con I'll have to mirror fellow reviewer and friend, Edward Lorn on this one because, as he pointed out, this novel did strike me as a mix between Pet Cemetery and Bag of Bones. King did a great job with the character development and plot line. Unlike Bag of Bones, which felt a little weak for me, Duma Key was laid down with great depth and power. If I had a complaint, and what keeps me from giving it 5 stars, is that after following this deep drama for so long, the climax seemed a little silly in context to the build up. It still wasn't bad and overall this was a good King novel. ...more Ahh... what can I say about Duma Key, other than it being an extraordinary experience, a literary breath of fresh air, a masterpiece of color and texture without any actual paint being used. I guess there are some people out there think it's boring or long but I instantaneously felt a bond with the book and I can say that I absolutely loved it! The writing itself was so colorful and interesting that I enjoyed each and every page, there was in no rush to get to the ending by any means, but I did Ahh... what can I say about Duma Key, other than it being an extraordinary experience, a literary breath of fresh air, a masterpiece of color and texture without any actual paint being used. I guess there are some people out there think it's boring or long but I instantaneously felt a bond with the book and I can say that I absolutely loved it! The writing itself was so colorful and interesting that I enjoyed each and every page, there was in no rush to get to the ending by any means, but I did like the end, it matched the enigmatic feel of the story and it had a lush, tropical feel to it but it was tainted by something dark and eerie and quite frankly very creepy because it was deadly. Those affected could have never imagine their demise, and whether they believed in it or not, it was coming. I was attracted to this book right away, partially because of the cover; it always begged to be read and as an artist it touched my sensors in ways that kept me thinking of it often so I finally had to sit down and read it and also because one of my best friends started reading it and I had to follow suit so we could enjoy and discuss it together, it was a real treat to read it at the same time and marvel at the unfolding story. Edgar Freemantle is a handicapped man who moves to a mythical island of Duma Key, a place that doesn't exist in reality but seems more real than half the vacation spots I've been in. He rents a salmon colored house and starts painting with his remaining arm, paintings that change his life - at first for the better but later he realizes that his new found gift is very hungry, and it hungers for things most precious to him. His recovery seems to progress until he starts feeling his missing arm, at the same time strange storms are coming to the island and things that shouldn't be real are happening, Edgar knows that his paintings have more power and meaning than he could have ever imagined and it's up to him to solve the mystery that has enshrouded Duma Key for generations and left many skeletons during it's rein. The story jumps off the cliff with an appearance of a ship on the horizon, Edgar knows that its not good news, something strange and deadly is on that ship and the closer it gets to him during those storms the stranger the hold on his sudden artistic talents and the results are quite shocking, but hey they make for great reading. After reading it I can safely say that it's one of my favorite books ever, I even got the hard cover version so I could have the full dust jacket with it's glorious art to see while I read the paperback and carried it with me everywhere. This might not be for everyone, but that's totally fine with me, I loved it and it made an impact on me, I'm sure there are people out there who wont like it, and that's fine, It only makes me feel lucky that I'm not one of them! This story is like an exotic fruit bowl, gorgeous from every angle and full of mouth watering rainbow of flavors. The characters in this tale are extremely realistic, from the kooky and zany to mysterious and deadly, each plays a part that paints such a grand picture that the more I think about it the more I feel the need to read it again, just to dip back into that pool of \"ahh..\" it creates.. It's really hard to explain but this book was marvelous and it made a bond with my imagination, one that will stay with me for a long time. There is plenty of original mystery and horror and love and growth combined with struggles and some deaths, it all paints a picture worth thousands of words, one that I could stare at forever. ...more I wasn\u2019t far into reading Duma Key before it dawned on me that there was, quite possibly, something very important about this novel. It\u2019s no secret that King was almost killed in a car accident in 1999 and, for quite some time afterwards, there was doubt whether he would ever recover enough to be able to write again. The author himself even gave voice to the idea that he was considering the very distinct possibility of retirement, because of the constant pain he\u2019d suffered from since the event. I wasn\u2019t far into reading Duma Key before it dawned on me that there was, quite possibly, something very important about this novel. It\u2019s no secret that King was almost killed in a car accident in 1999 and, for quite some time afterwards, there was doubt whether he would ever recover enough to be able to write again. The author himself even gave voice to the idea that he was considering the very distinct possibility of retirement, because of the constant pain he\u2019d suffered from since the event. King did continue to write, but he stated numerous times that he was finding it a much harder and slower process than before. So, what does this have to do with Duma Key ? In my opinion, everything . Enter Edgar Freemantle: middle-aged and happily married, with two loving daughters; owner of a highly lucrative building and contracting business; a self-made success story. Edgar is involved in a terrible accident on a building site. His right side is crushed; bones broken, skull fractured, arm amputated. His wife, unable to cope with the unremitting rage and frustration that he unleashes towards her in his state of confusion during his recovery, leaves him. The world he knew is utterly destroyed and, at first, Edgar feels compelled to end it all - until his therapist convinces him to try a year in a new location, before he does anything too drastic. Edgar relocates to a rented beach house in the Florida Keys, leaving his \u2018other life\u2019 far behind, where his view of the Gulf of Mexico inspires him to discover a new hobby in painting - a hobby that he quickly finds he has an almost unnatural talent for, and which eventually leads him to discover that, through his new found creative outlet, holds far more power than merely healing the psychological damage inflicted by his accident. A dark power is at work here, and it threatens to destroy everything he loves. Sounds like a Stephen King story, doesn\u2019t it? Well, even judging the book from this level alone, you\u2019ll find a lot to enjoy here. The well-fleshed, likeable characters and the gradual build-up towards the inevitable final confrontation are typical King, and on more than one occasion I was genuinely creeped out by some of the scenes in this book. One huge problem I have with several of King\u2019s novels is that the endings often tend to feel kind of rushed after such a wonderfully detailed (almost leisurely) pace is set by the first three quarters or so - I didn\u2019t feel that way about this one, though, thankfully. Right, that\u2019s as much as you\u2019re going to get as far as something resembling a \u2018proper\u2019 review goes, now back to my original point... What I found especially significant about the telling of this tale is that it\u2019s written in the first-person, from Edgar\u2019s perspective, and that the first half of the novel focuses very much on the process of attempting to regain at least some of what\u2019s lost after the accident - describing in great detail the pain, frustration, despair and anger that Edgar feels about having both his physical frame and previous life shattered beyond any hope of a full recovery. At numerous times throughout the novel I found myself wondering whether this was the character\u2019s or the author\u2019s voice I was hearing. There\u2019s a definite sense that this book was a creative outlet for King to pour all of the emotions he went through after his own accident into something creative - much like Edgar with his paintings. My accident really taught me just one thing: the only way to go on is to go on. To say I can do this even when you know you can\u2019t. I can do this. A phrase that\u2019s repeated throughout this book. It\u2019s the essence of the book. A mantra . This is the voice of a man who has been through hell and, somehow, come out alive on the other side; irreversibly changed, but still in control. It is the line in the sand. The desire to put the past behind and finally look again to the future. A work of fiction this may be, but there\u2019s an incredible amount of honesty in this novel. ...more More literal magical negros than we usually mean when we use that phrase (although this one shows teaches white people things too), more classic-rock-oriented tragic heroes than you see in Sophocles, and arche/stereotypes so predictable and effective that you're totally sucked in even as you're laughing at the dialogue and the plot twists: you know when you are reading Stephen King. I'm glad I started reading him when I was little and I liked everything, instead of now that I am old and I hate e More literal magical negros than we usually mean when we use that phrase (although this one shows teaches white people things too), more classic-rock-oriented tragic heroes than you see in Sophocles, and arche/stereotypes so predictable and effective that you're totally sucked in even as you're laughing at the dialogue and the plot twists: you know when you are reading Stephen King. I'm glad I started reading him when I was little and I liked everything, instead of now that I am old and I hate everything, because I can't imagine how this stuff would read if it weren't so familiar that it's comforting. The plot is pretty much irrelevent, you know? Monster dolls, eh. Also, you know the thing where sometimes boys treat their girlfriends like shit but they think it's okay because they're like, \"Man, she is smarter and better than me,\" and their words are supposed to make their behavior okay? Ol' Steve is like that but not to his girlfriend- to black people. Still, pretty much everybody comes off douchey, and Steve can't ever seem to resist throwing in stuff about bands he likes (all dorky 70s rock and, I think, maybe Shark Puppy is actually his own band?) like a first-year creative writing student, which feel so transparently self-indulgent. So... yeah. Dunno why I read six hundred pages of this stuff and enjoyed it, except that it makes me feel like little eleven-year-old me reading a library copy of the Stand while the other kids are playing little league, thinking 'MAN BOOKS ARE AWESOME.' ...more I haven't been writing reviews of my King rereads so much lately, not for any particular reason other than perhaps sheer laziness, but this one demands that I write something. This is a mammoth tome, but it reads like sands slipping through slightly spread fingers. Is it King's magnum opus? I can't be sure, but it is such a heartbreaking, eerie, and humorous read, combining all of the man's best qualities and mixing them into a cyclone of white-knuckle suspense. If you need a place to begin readi I haven't been writing reviews of my King rereads so much lately, not for any particular reason other than perhaps sheer laziness, but this one demands that I write something. This is a mammoth tome, but it reads like sands slipping through slightly spread fingers. Is it King's magnum opus? I can't be sure, but it is such a heartbreaking, eerie, and humorous read, combining all of the man's best qualities and mixing them into a cyclone of white-knuckle suspense. If you need a place to begin reading King's work, I can't think of any better place to do it. ...more If Stephen King had died fifty years ago and left all these books for us to read whenever and in whatever order, I wouldn\u2019t have placed this one in the twilight of his career. This would have gone in the \u201cgood and thoughtful\u201d pile. I guess being hit by a car helped him write Edgar, the man who lost an arm, mangled a leg and lost part of his mind to a construction accident. Edgar is our sympathetic narrator, who stumbles out of a marriage that couldn\u2019t survive the accident even if he did, and mov If Stephen King had died fifty years ago and left all these books for us to read whenever and in whatever order, I wouldn\u2019t have placed this one in the twilight of his career. This would have gone in the \u201cgood and thoughtful\u201d pile. I guess being hit by a car helped him write Edgar, the man who lost an arm, mangled a leg and lost part of his mind to a construction accident. Edgar is our sympathetic narrator, who stumbles out of a marriage that couldn\u2019t survive the accident even if he did, and moves to a quiet beach in Florida (the eponymous Duma Key). It's a place that draws broken people \u2013 not fixing them, but empowering them. Giving strange abilities to the physically or mentally handicapped is a theme in King\u2019s fiction, and it\u2019s one of the most fascinating. It never levels the playing field, rather making the game much more interesting to watch. Mixing the pure supernatural with a real medical condition like phantom limbs makes this one of the more interesting cases of the theme in his fiction. There is nothing urgent about this book, and that\u2019s going to break it for a lot of readers. It has more of a premise than a plot. We come in after the accident, and are served with a hefty recap of the things that happened before our boy moved to Big Pink (his house on Duma Key). Things happen, our one-armed painter develops, and the nights pass as they may. King might spend the next five pages talking about walking on the beach, or he may use them to experiment on whether Edgar can see the future in what he paints, or create the future by painting it. This is great to me, and will be to anyone else who enjoys King's sense of voice. It\u2019s been years since I demanded authors, even those I go to primarily for entertainment, throw buckets of plot across my deck or rush me from action scene to action scene. Few books have helped me unwind this much, and it\u2019s in part because of that lack of urgency amongst so many interesting things. Edgar is proper parts sympathetic, amusing, humble, confused and struggling, and with King giving him a voice, he's a pleasure to sit down with even for the most trying anecdotes. That's not to say crazy things don't happen. Edgar is a one-armed painter whose art predicts the future, after all. But does it predict, or can it force things to happen? Is Duma Key a strange attractor for such phenomena? It\u2019s an odd coincidence that the half-blind man down the beach claims to have visions, and that the woman he cares for, stricken with Alzheimer\u2019s, sometimes babbles things she shouldn\u2019t know. Beyond the paranormal, Edgar\u2019s relationship with his daughter (he has two, but only one plays a substantial role) is touching. She\u2019s a great character for this type of story, made up of many stripes, including all of these we see in her mother, but also many more. That half-blind potential psychic, Wireman, is also a great balancing character \u2013 funny, philosophical, so suited to letting life and a book wash away on a beautiful beach, and giving perspective to the things Edgar experiences. That the majority of our handicapped cast have some positive nature about them (not always sunny, but at least given to moments that are utterly loveable) helped my spirits as I spent the last week struggling through some physical therapy. But better than sympathetic characters are the relationships. You see Wireman with his profound, pseudo-parental, pseudo-husbandly love for his charge. Edgar and his daughter have a clearly complex relationship. Like in Salem\u2019s Lot , the setting itself has a character with a provocative relationship to anyone who stays. There\u2019s plenty to ruminate over in this book if you have the patience. One level this book works on very well is that of the mythological. Edgar was an architect, someone who took drawn plans and built physical reality out of them. Here, almost detached from time, reality seems to be forcing his pencils and brush, reversing his talents. It\u2019s things like this, especially as they carry out experientially through the book, that make it spiritually engrossing \u2013 even if the deepest Mr. King forces his characters to speak is in guessing that maybe there is an afterlife or humorously paraphrasing Nietzsche. It\u2019s the substance, not the style. King uses the wandering prose to play more literary tricks than usual. The most common are Edgar\u2019s mis-speeches. His accident took an arm and damaged a leg, but it also damaged his brain, taking some memories (though from some of the things he remembers and some of the things he can\u2019t, one wonders how much was lost by chance and how much was lost by unconscious desire to be free) and leaving his speech habits broken. He\u2019ll say the wrong word or the wrong phrase in a blend of oral typos and Freudian slips, in the middle of perfectly fluent sentences. Sometimes they\u2019re pathetic, but other times they reflect on his character development, such as when he intended to tell someone, \u201cI\u2019ll never be even,\u201d but instead says, \u201cI\u2019ll never be Heaven.\u201d Word flips like that touch on things he\u2019s thinking or truth about this story as well providing a quirk to dialogue. Sometimes this leaks into his first person narration, like saying he bore someone \u201cno anus\u201d instead of \u201cno animus.\u201d As neat as they would have been if such word flips arose in retelling his most emotionally sensitive scenarios, these last seem to have been random. That kind of spirit bleeds into other things, as we slowly realize the saying, \u201cGod punishes us for what we can't imagine\u201d doesn\u2019t mean the Almighty attacks us for reasons we can\u2019t understand, but that ignorance and lack of foresight gets us into trouble. And those kinds of tricks lead to a certain way of thinking about his characters, which King had to have intended. We find that Edgar\u2019s house was once inhabited by Salvadore Dali \u2013 for three weeks. The area might be magical, so has his newfound talent come from there? Later we learn he used to draw beautiful picture books for his daughters when they were sick \u2013 but he can\u2019t remember it. Did the talent come form there? Despite being much longer, much less funny and of a wholly different tone and intent, the book throws several Nakokov Pale Fire scenarios at you, where you\u2019ll have to figure it out for yourself, and your conclusion really is just as good as your professor\u2019s. This kind of wordplay is indicative of a greater attention to diction than normal in King\u2019s infinitely readable casual prose. It fits the world of quirky characters, where the normal people only visit and curious conversations are legion. King plays with clich\u00e9s and platitudes as always, but there\u2019s more literal dueling going on here \u2013 and thankfully none of it gets in the way of a damned good tone. I don\u2019t even know why I picked up the book that first day, but after three pages I knew I was going to be sitting for a while. ...more In many circles, Stephen King's last novel LISEY'S STORY is considered his masterpiece. I couldn't get past the 50 page mark, the gauge by which I judge the readability of a book. This is not to say that it isn't a classic. We've all put down books with a snort of disgust only to try again sometime later and realize them for the great works that they are (or, in some cases, are not.) Before LISEY'S STORY came CELL, and while I found it entertaining and worth reading, I didn't consider it a good In many circles, Stephen King's last novel LISEY'S STORY is considered his masterpiece. I couldn't get past the 50 page mark, the gauge by which I judge the readability of a book. This is not to say that it isn't a classic. We've all put down books with a snort of disgust only to try again sometime later and realize them for the great works that they are (or, in some cases, are not.) Before LISEY'S STORY came CELL, and while I found it entertaining and worth reading, I didn't consider it a good example of King at the height of his power. A minor entry in his literary arsenal, I thought, while at the same time wistfully remembering those days when a new Stephen King book was cause for almost childish excitement. Sadly, I haven't felt that way about King's work for a long time. After reading DUMA KEY, that excitement and anticipation has been reignited. When King is on, he's on, and no other writer comes close to equalling his power as a writer. In DUMA KEY, he most certainly is ON, and displays all the techniques of characterization, plot, and style upon which his reputation was built. Oddly enough, while it is most definitely a horror novel, the first two thirds of DUMA KEY can hardly be classified as anything but a bittersweet, engaging, and dryly humorous drama. The characters--particularly \"Wireman\"--walk off the page and keep you completely immersed in the sunset world King has created. You feel for these characters and hope all turns out for the best. Being a King novel, this of course does not turn out to be the case. Rather than rehash the plot (which you can read for yourself by clicking on the book's cover above), I'll simply say that DUMA KEY is the story of a man changed by fate, who loses almost everything but then finds new life, but a life that comes with a high price. Despite it's 600 pages, DUMA KEY was for me a swift read (3 days!), and has restored my faith in King as one of the best writers we have. Highly recommended. ...more #40 in my Stephen King reading project, this is one of the 'modern' ones that has received mostly praise and it's actually well deserved. Once again, I found myself entranced with the pure flow of the storytelling and the narrative and not in the least, the fantastic characters. Sometimes when King writes, the story becomes almost secondary, which is kind of funny, because the telling of a story is what he stresses most himself. Anyway, there is of course a story in this one too and if you read #40 in my Stephen King reading project, this is one of the 'modern' ones that has received mostly praise and it's actually well deserved. Once again, I found myself entranced with the pure flow of the storytelling and the narrative and not in the least, the fantastic characters. Sometimes when King writes, the story becomes almost secondary, which is kind of funny, because the telling of a story is what he stresses most himself. Anyway, there is of course a story in this one too and if you read the blurb you know quite a lot of it. The construction entrepreneur Edgar Freemantle suffers a violent accident on one of his build sites and loses an arm. He is also head injured and his changed personality causes him to attack his wife, who sees no way out but to divorce him. He \"retires\" to Florida and the island of Duma Key, where a long road of recovery and rehabilitation awaits. Soon, he discovers a hitherto hidden talent for drawing and painting. His work attract attention, but they also affect and influence things and happenings in the world that are not usually controlled by pieces of art. For any ghost story to be successful, I think a key element is that the explanations be kept few; no specifics of mechanisms, establishing of a lot of rules and the likes is going to add to the suspense. This is perfectly followed here for 2/3rds of the book and then we slip into a bit too much of explanations and the story stalls. To make sure it grinds to a close halt, King (again) stretches out the endgame almost to a breaking point and I started dreading instead of relishing picking up the book for the last 70 or 80 pages. Magically, I found myself out of the forest though and the very end is a great one. This saved the read for me, really, and the second star I pulled off there from the full five was quickly reinstated. All in all, a really good one from the King, be wary of a certain passage near the end though. ...more It must be nice to be Stephen King. Everything you write is automatically a bestseller -- no editor or publisher will ever tell you \"no.\" But the flipside of such omnipotence is also evident in this book. A building contractor from Minnesota has an awful accident in which he loses one arm and also suffers brain injuries from which he slowly recovers. His wife leaves him so he moves to an almost deserted Florida key and begins painting strange works of genius. It turns out that evil has awakened i It must be nice to be Stephen King. Everything you write is automatically a bestseller -- no editor or publisher will ever tell you \"no.\" But the flipside of such omnipotence is also evident in this book. A building contractor from Minnesota has an awful accident in which he loses one arm and also suffers brain injuries from which he slowly recovers. His wife leaves him so he moves to an almost deserted Florida key and begins painting strange works of genius. It turns out that evil has awakened in the swampy land and is giving his art its weird power. I hadn't picked up a King book for some years and horror is not generally my thing. But I had time to spare on a trip and fancied a good old-fashioned literary wallow. King's strength remains his ability to conjure a scary tale but there are also weaknesses here, some of which could have been fixed with good editing. The book is very looooooong. I know some King fans love and demand Dickensian length but the story did not support it. The characters are weak. One is described merely through tiresome use of Spanish. Another fairly major character has no character at all. The wife is a big nothing. I did not get emotionally involved with these people. When people I was supposed to care about died, I didn't care. King has a way of telegraphing plot developments. Three or four times, he writes, \"I never saw her again,\" or \"That was our final conversation.\" It's an old trick that wears out. Having said all this, King remains unmatched at describing pure evil and that's what accounts for his success I suppose. He knows what pain feels like and transmits that too. I'm glad people read his stuff because all reading is good and they could do much worse. They could also do a little better -- and so could he. ...more \u201c.. a person's memory is everything, really. Memory is identity. It's you .\u201d Dear King, I will forever be your Constant Reader. This was a brilliant novel! It continued to build & build until the ultimate climax. King often struggles with an ending, but not this one. This one was perfect! I am finding it hard to write a review, to find the words I want to say. This is not only because it is 1am (in fact, I am far more creative in this wee hours) but because I just truly loved this book so much! \u201c.. a person's memory is everything, really. Memory is identity. It's you .\u201d Dear King, I will forever be your Constant Reader. This was a brilliant novel! It continued to build & build until the ultimate climax. King often struggles with an ending, but not this one. This one was perfect! I am finding it hard to write a review, to find the words I want to say. This is not only because it is 1am (in fact, I am far more creative in this wee hours) but because I just truly loved this book so much! There were so many references to my favorite, The Dark Tower series, as well. I love spotting those golden little fandom nuggets! Duma Key has incredibly vivid imagery & a fascinating plot. King's speciality, however, is writing relatable characters. Average people that have less than average things happen to them. Duma Key was no exception. The character development was superb! The reader feels deeply for Edgar Freemantle, a man who goes from desperately wanting to die when we first meet him, to doing everything he can to live. I saw a lot of similarities between Edgar & Bill Hodges! He was a fantastic protagonist that lead us along quite a journey! The supporting characters were interesting, as well. I especially loved Wireman! This is Stephen King, so of course there is something sinister lurking beneath the surface. A touch of supernatural, a dark force. This is a beautiful, thoughtful, fascinating book. I cannot recommend it enough! (Reading challenge: A book about art or an artist) ...more \u00a1Me gusta la pizza, que le voy a hacer! Un cocido, un bistec o una paella est\u00e1n muy bien, es comida sana, sin duda. Pero reconoced conmigo que de vez en cuando no apetece una buena pizza, con su queso fundido, su mozzarella, su at\u00fan, bueno, lo que sea. Pues lo mismo me sucede con Stephen King, que cada cierto tiempo me apetece leer alguna de sus fant\u00e1sticas historias. Pero, \u00bfes Stephen King un buen escritor? La respuesta es un rotundo y merecido s\u00ed. Aparte de se aportaci\u00f3n a las letras norteameri \u00a1Me gusta la pizza, que le voy a hacer! Un cocido, un bistec o una paella est\u00e1n muy bien, es comida sana, sin duda. Pero reconoced conmigo que de vez en cuando no apetece una buena pizza, con su queso fundido, su mozzarella, su at\u00fan, bueno, lo que sea. Pues lo mismo me sucede con Stephen King, que cada cierto tiempo me apetece leer alguna de sus fant\u00e1sticas historias. Pero, \u00bfes Stephen King un buen escritor? La respuesta es un rotundo y merecido s\u00ed. Aparte de se aportaci\u00f3n a las letras norteamericanas, y yo dir\u00eda que mundiales, esto es obvio, su narrativa es muy buena, sabe contar historias y crear personajes cre\u00edbles, es capaz de dotarles de una personalidad y psicolog\u00edas propias mejor que muchos pseudo-escritores-intelectuales que est\u00e1n subidos en su propio pedestal de autosatisfacci\u00f3n. No voy a dar nombres, dej\u00e9moslo as\u00ed. Lo primero que llama la atenci\u00f3n de \u2018Duma Key\u2019 , si es que se ha seguido parte de la trayectoria de King, es que su prosa es m\u00e1s templada, y eso no es malo, pero echo de menos esa chispa que caracterizaba sus obras de los 80. La obra se desarrolla sosegadamente. King va desvelando la trama y sus misterios como el que va tirando de un hilo suelto en un tapiz, sin apresurarse. Aquellos que esperen fuegos artificiales no los van a encontrar aqu\u00ed. La historia est\u00e1 contada por Edgar Freemantle, que tras un espantoso accidente, pierde su brazo derecho y su memoria se ve afectada. Su mujer no resiste m\u00e1s y pide la separaci\u00f3n, entonces su psic\u00f3logo le recomienda un cambio de aires. Y aqu\u00ed empieza la verdadera novela, cuando Edgar se muda a Duma Key, Florida, a Big Pink, una casa rosa junto al mar. Nada m\u00e1s llegar, se siente atra\u00eddo a dibujar casi de manera compulsiva. Edgar, y el lector, se dan cuenta de que algo pasa en la zona. No es bueno contar m\u00e1s, sobre todo en una novela de King, aunque el \u00faltimo tercio del libro es puro King. Para terminar, he de decir que \u2018Duma Key\u2019 es un libro muy bien escrito, posee esa \u201cfacilidad\u201d para leerlo tan dif\u00edcil de conseguir. Es pura literatura. \u00a1Y qu\u00e9 demonios, me encanta la pizza! ...more Good prose and King sets a really good mood, but it ended up going absolutely nowhere. Very anti-climactic. Second read: It's with a heavy heart that I'm putting this one aside. I thought maybe I didn't give it a fair shake the first time around and I always wanted to give it another go. But again I'm just not feeling it. There's a point where the story loses me and I just can't seem to pull myself through it. Instead I end up losing all interest. It's starting to feel like a bit of a slog, and Good prose and King sets a really good mood, but it ended up going absolutely nowhere. Very anti-climactic. Second read: It's with a heavy heart that I'm putting this one aside. I thought maybe I didn't give it a fair shake the first time around and I always wanted to give it another go. But again I'm just not feeling it. There's a point where the story loses me and I just can't seem to pull myself through it. Instead I end up losing all interest. It's starting to feel like a bit of a slog, and that's just not the Stephen King I know and love, so I'm declaring this one 'just not for me'. ...more Quotes must be popular, since many liked minds used them. I copied these passages as I read, so I'm using them. From DUMA KEY: How to Draw a Picture Start with a blank surface. It doesn't have to be paper or canvas, but I feel it should be white. We call it white because we need a word, but its true name is nothing. Black is the absence of light, but white is the absence of memory, the color of can't remember. How do we remember to remember? That's a question I've asked myself often since my time Quotes must be popular, since many liked minds used them. I copied these passages as I read, so I'm using them. From DUMA KEY: How to Draw a Picture Start with a blank surface. It doesn't have to be paper or canvas, but I feel it should be white. We call it white because we need a word, but its true name is nothing. Black is the absence of light, but white is the absence of memory, the color of can't remember. How do we remember to remember? That's a question I've asked myself often since my time on Duma Key, often in the small hours of the morning, looking up into the absence of light, remembering absent friends. Sometimes in those little hours I think about the horizon. You have to establish the horizon. You have to mark the white. A simple enough act, you might say, but any act that re-makes the world is heroic. Or so I\u2019ve come to believe. Imagine a little girl, hardly more than a baby. She fell from a carriage almost ninety years ago, struck her head on a stone, and forgot everything. Not just her name; everything! And then one day she recalled just enough to pick up a pencil and make that first hesitant mark across the white. A horizon-line, sure. But also a slot for blackness to pour through. Still, imagine that small hand lifting the pencil... hesitating... and then marking the white. Imagine the courage of that first effort to re-establish the world by picturing it. I will always love that little girl, in spite of all she has cost me. I must. I have no choice. Pictures are magic, as you know. My Other Life My name is Edgar Freemantle. I used to be a big deal in the building and contracting business. This was in Minnesota, in my other life. I learned that my-other-life thing from Wireman. I want to tell you about Wireman, but first let's get through the Minnesota part. Gotta say it: I was a genuine American-boy success there. Worked my way up in the company where I started, and when I couldn\u2019t work my way any higher there, I went out and started my own. The boss of the company I left laughed at me, said I'd be broke in a year. I think that's what most bosses say when some hot young pocket-rocket goes off on his own. For me, everything worked out. When Minneapolis\u2013St. Paul boomed, The Freemantle Company boomed. When things tightened up, I never tried to play big. But I did play my hunches, and most played out well. By the time I was fifty, Pam and I were worth forty million dollars. And we were still tight. We had two girls, and at the end of our particular Golden Age, Ilse was at Brown and Melinda was teaching in France, as part of a foreign exchange program. At the time things went wrong, my wife and I were planning to go and visit her. Great writing from Stephen King! My second foray into King\u2019s twisted imagination was wonderful as well as scary! DUMA KEY had me sleeping fitfully with the lights on for 2 nights! Edgar Freemantle takes his Doctor\u2019s advice and heads for fictional Duma Key, FL after a terrible accident that scrambled his brains and took his arm. His wife divorces him after Freemantle attacks her with a plastic fork. He then divides his vast fortune among Pam and his daughters, before arriving on the small island where 2 other people who suffered traumatic injuries live. While he is recovering from his extensive injuries, Edgar discovers a new ability: painting. And his paintings come from an imagination on steroids! Oh they come to life too and place everyone and everything in danger. Any more plot revelation will spoil readers\u2019 enjoyment. Many reviewers believe this novel reflects King\u2019s state of mind when he himself was recovering from being struck by a car while he walking several years ago. That may be true but he doesn\u2019t miss a beat here. The writing is superb and succinct. His pacing builds with each paragraph, leaving readers breathless while quickly turning each page. The charcacters are so well developed that this reader thought they were real people. A 5 star read that will demand your time and keep one eye open while you sleep. ...more Stephen King, Duma Key (Scribner, 2008) Once a decade or so, Stephen King goes through a terrible writing slump, and I inevitably find myself wondering if King is finally past it. It happened in the early eighties (Christine, Cujo, Firestarter, et al.), the early nineties (culminating in the grandly awful Insomnia), and the late nineties (in which he went from the brilliant The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon to the... not at all brilliant... Bag of Bones). In the midst of this last batch came the acci Stephen King, Duma Key (Scribner, 2008) Once a decade or so, Stephen King goes through a terrible writing slump, and I inevitably find myself wondering if King is finally past it. It happened in the early eighties (Christine, Cujo, Firestarter, et al.), the early nineties (culminating in the grandly awful Insomnia), and the late nineties (in which he went from the brilliant The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon to the... not at all brilliant... Bag of Bones). In the midst of this last batch came the accident, a couple of announcements of retirement, and a bunch of mediocre writing-- but then came \u201cBlind Willie\u201d, perhaps the best story King has written, and the final two Dark Tower novels, which heralded a possible return to form. Now, there is Duma Key, and it looks like King is back on his feet. Not that Duma Key is one of King's deathless novels like The Stand or Misery, stuff that should be pressed on visiting alien races as examples of what we do down here, but something that is solid and worth reading. In other words, it's King's best standalone novel since The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon. The story centers on Edgar Freemantle, a building contractor from Minnesota who loses his arm in an accident with a crane, and soon after loses his marriage. His therapist suggests a change of venue as a possible cure, and he resettles on Duma Key, an isolated island off the Florida coast, where he discovers a previously unknown talent for art and some rather odd characters. Soon he realizes, with the help of the island's doyenne, that his art may be something more than he had at first taken it for... One thing that King always does well, even in his bad periods, is characterization. King is one of the modern masters of drawing a character in a few broad strokes and having the reader know as much about the character as is necessary (and, frequently, a great deal more). When he's on his game, his characters are some of the best to be found in modern fiction. And while Edgar Freemantle himself is, surprisingly, a pretty stock character from the King arsenal-- you could pick him up and drop him whole into any number of King novels and he's be right at home-- it's the supporting cast who really make this book tick. Freemantle's younger daughter Ilse is fantastic, as is Elizabeth Eastlake, the senile landlady who, in her moments of clarity, gives Freemantle and his (equally wonderful) friend Wireman all the necessary clues to figure out what's going on with Freemantle's blossoming talent. They alone would make the book worthwhile. And there are times when they have to carry it-- King's depiction of Freemantle and his ex-wife's fumbling in the dark toward some sort of post-marriage understanding comes off as, at worst, horribly manipulative (and at best nothing more than a demon loosed to advance the plot)-- but when the book is on, it's on. King is also fantastic (when he's not dropping the ball, as in the relationship above) at setting things up without the reader realizing those things are being set up, and much of the book works in this vein; King, who has repeatedly stated in interviews that he starts his books without much idea of where they're going, has either changed the way he writes or has allowed his subconscious total control when writing, because the setup starts in the first few pages and never lets up; half the fun of reading any King novel is in getting through a big revelation and saying \u201chey, that scene back on page twenty-six...\u201d. You know the drill. I liked this one a bunch. It's good to see that Mr. King is back again and firing on all cylinders, even if one or two miss now and again. **** ...more In preparation for doing this review of Stephen King's latest, I did some poking around and read some other reviews on the 'net and was surprised to find that a lot of people like it. I, despite being a King fanboy, didn't care for it that much. It's gotten to be that King barely writes what you can fairly call horror books anymore. That's his prerogative, of course (roaring, scarcely imaginable success has its privileges), but between this, Blaze, Cell, Lisey's Story, and The Colorado Kid it's In preparation for doing this review of Stephen King's latest, I did some poking around and read some other reviews on the 'net and was surprised to find that a lot of people like it. I, despite being a King fanboy, didn't care for it that much. It's gotten to be that King barely writes what you can fairly call horror books anymore. That's his prerogative, of course (roaring, scarcely imaginable success has its privileges), but between this, Blaze, Cell, Lisey's Story, and The Colorado Kid it's just not been the King I grew to love. Look, it's not that Duma Key is a bad novel. In fact, it's pretty well written and refreshing in its setting. Instead of yet another everyman cum hero from a xenophobic town in rural Maine, Duma Key tells the story of a successful building contractor from Minnesota named Edgar Freemantle. Our hero is maimed in a work site accident, and when the resulting physical and mental damage wreck his marriage, he retires and moves to a small island in the keys of Florida to recuperate. Part of his therapy involves taking painting up again, and he turns out to be very good. Supernaturally good, in fact. The stuff he paints is very surreal, and the paintings seem to have sinister lives of their own that are tied to an old and evil somethingoranother on the island. It's the kind of \"artist/creator as a magician or god\" ground that he's covered in other works, like later Dark Tower books and the short story Word Processor of the Gods, but here it's pretty fresh in its presentation. And King does a good job of what King often does well: He builds character. Edgar Freemantle and the friends he makes Duma Key are interesting, nuanced, complex, and flawed. They're good literary characters, in short, not Mary Janes or cliches. The thing is, though, that the book is ALL character development and setup, to the point where it languishes over those actions. We get to know a lot about Edgar Freemantle, but honestly, I thought I had ENOUGH after a couple hundred pages and was ready for the plot to develop. Instead, we get long scenes about beach walks, art shows, and father-daughter chats that are nicely done except that there are too many of them and they drag. Then, literally in the last 100 pages of the 600 page book, King seems to remember that he's got to do something that makes the book fit in the \"Horror\" section of the bookstore and drags out some extras from the first Pirates of the Carribian movie. Dead, squishy sailors walk in from the surf and oh yeah there's some kinda monster in the woods that Edgar and his ka-tet (to use The Gunslinger's term) have to figure out how to best. That part was cool, but it felt forced and like it was part of another book. I know I'll keep buying new King books as long as he makes them, but I think I'm gonna have to go back to some of the older stuff to remind me why he's one of my favorites for a good old fashion page turner. ...more I\u2019ve always been a coward when it comes to reading Stephen King. Seeing his name on a book cover automatically makes me turn around and run away. It\u2019s nothing personal against King. It\u2019s just that I tend to shun anything with horror\u2026from movies to haunted houses to books. King being \u201cThe King of Horror\u201d automatically puts him on that list. The thing is I have a few GR friends that are King aficionados who kept insisting that King wasn\u2019t scary at all and that he\u2019s great and blah, blah, blah. So f I\u2019ve always been a coward when it comes to reading Stephen King. Seeing his name on a book cover automatically makes me turn around and run away. It\u2019s nothing personal against King. It\u2019s just that I tend to shun anything with horror\u2026from movies to haunted houses to books. King being \u201cThe King of Horror\u201d automatically puts him on that list. The thing is I have a few GR friends that are King aficionados who kept insisting that King wasn\u2019t scary at all and that he\u2019s great and blah, blah, blah. So finally when a group of them decided to read the Dark Towers series I decided to put my Big Girl Panties on and try it out. Turns out King wasn\u2019t so bad and I liked his writing. I made it part way into The Waste Lands before putting it to the side though. Unfortunately, life got in the way and I wasn\u2019t in the right mind set to continue. Anyway, a year or so later I started getting better about the whole horror thing and decided to branch out a bit. That\u2019s when I came across this book waiting for me at a library sale. I shelved it in my bookcase till I had the time and fortitude to tackle the behemoth. That time finally came and although I was excited I was a bit apprehensive. What if it was too scary? What if I started getting nightmares? Who was going to protect me? *gnaws fingernails* My GR friends assured me that it was all psychological; King is not scary, yada, yada. Putting my Big Girl Panties once again I ended up plowing through this sucker. I loved absolutely every minute of it! I even listened to the audio, which I highly recommend. It\u2019s rare for me to listen to an audio and then go back and read what I just listened too, but that is exactly what I did. I didn\u2019t want to miss a single word King wrote. I wanted to live in the experience again and again. I felt like I was in an Herbal Essence commercial every time I opened this book \u201cYes! Yes! YEEEEESSSSSSS! \u201d *smokes cigarette* So yeah, I highly recommend either reading this one or listening to the audio or better yet doing both. While there were some moments that stopped my heart for a second it was not scary. Parts of it were creepy. I knew I was being lured in by King, but I totally didn\u2019t mind because the journey there was so damn good. I\u2019ll leave you with a quote that touched me to the very core because I swear I had a moment in my life where I felt this way, but didn\u2019t have the words for it: \"I told myself there was time. Of course, that's what we always tell ourselves, isn't it? We can't imagine time running out, and God punishes us for what we can't imagine.\" ...more This has become my personal favorite. Many of King's fans have been upset with some of his later work because of the lack of true terror. Others were pleased because there was a bit more variety or literary quality. Me, I feel that I can't say his books ever got better or worse. Stephen King writes so many different kinds of stories that everyone is going to be happy with some and disappointed with others. For me this has had very little to do with when he wrote them. It was all about how he gain This has become my personal favorite. Many of King's fans have been upset with some of his later work because of the lack of true terror. Others were pleased because there was a bit more variety or literary quality. Me, I feel that I can't say his books ever got better or worse. Stephen King writes so many different kinds of stories that everyone is going to be happy with some and disappointed with others. For me this has had very little to do with when he wrote them. It was all about how he gained more and more fans over the years. What makes Duma Key one of those few that works for almost all of King's fans is that it had more of a balance instead of focussing on one end of the spectrum. And he was also able to keep both sides of the coin well polished in this one. The characters, plot, terror, themes, haunting scenes, etc. all had a unique, slightly different twist to them. Duma Key could seem slow at times. Some people could complain about how slow the first half of the story is. However, it is not constant. There are many places where the pace picks up for a little bit to keep the reader interested. The other complaint that I have heard is that it gets too weird at the end. Yes, I usually don't like King's weirder stories as much as the others, but in Duma Key the bizarre is never allowed to go too far. It had to go somewhere because of how the whole story was slowly building up to it. So give me a way King could have ended it without bringing a little more paranormal into the equation, and you will probably give me an entirely new book. In the end, I found it to be amazing because of the characters. I've heard many say that they're more developed. I felt that the difference was in how well the reader got to know the protagonist. Most of King's characters are very complex or well developed, but it's when the reader truly gets to know the character that it stands out. For me, the one thing that puts it as my all time favorite is how personally I felt connected and similar to the characters and how closely I could compare the story to my life. This is not something that I can say everyone, or anyone, else will see, but that is when literature will be most significant. ...more", "Title": "Duma Key"},
