{"Comments": "Truth is, I think naked men are kind of strange looking what with their doodles and ding-dong hanging loose like they do.<---F> Nevertheless, there's the curiosity thing</---F>. I guess it's another one of those car crash experiences, where you feel compelled to look even if you know you'll be horrified. And, this is the mindset of the girl who has two major alpha men after her? I'm not saying that I disagree with the awkward boy-parts thing, but Stephanie has to be the most un-sexy girl I have ever read. S Truth is, I think naked men are kind of strange looking what with their doodles and ding-dong hanging loose like they do. Nevertheless, there's the curiosity thing. I guess it's another one of those car crash experiences, where you feel compelled to look even if you know you'll be horrified. And, this is the mindset of the girl who has two major alpha men after her? I'm not saying that I disagree with the awkward boy-parts thing, but Stephanie has to be the most un-sexy girl I have ever read. She's probably the type of girl who the guy can only tell if she orgasms because she drops her nail file for a moment. So,<---M> we have the usual crazy shenanigans</---M>, insanely fun characters, and lots of car mishaps in this book. Stephanie doesn't seem to be getting any better at this bounty hunter job. She is, however, really good at making people mad enough to want to kill her. And, her apartment seems to be the easiest place to break into in the world. In this one, she has two old guys breaking in all of the time. They are nice though. They bring her gifts and do her dishes. Considerate burglars are the best kind. As for her relationship with Morelli? Well, it's gotten kind of sticky. Somehow, everyone thinks they are engaged and it keeps snowballing as people actually expect them to get married. Stephanie's mother convinces her to try on wedding dresses and her grandma is renting a hall. I see a shotgun wedding that will involve both Stephanie and Morelli being led to an altar at gunpoint. \"My mother and grandmother showed up and next thing I was trying on gowns.\" \"You'd tell me if we were getting married, wouldn't you? I mean, you wouldn't just appear on my doorstep in the gown one day and say we were due at the church in an hour.\" Yeah, I could see this happening... But, of course <---A>Janet Evanovich</---A> is a sadist and is determined to make our Stephanie as unlucky in love as she is in automobile ownership. That's all I will say... ...more OK I didn't add reviews to the last several books in this series because I was out of town (<---B>stuck in a snowstorm back east</---B>)& didn't get to my computer until today. I made two trips to Barnes & Noble while we were back east because I couldn't wait to get more of these books. This series in hilarious!!! Very quick reads too - perfect for passing the time in an airport with nothing else to do. I can't decide who my favorites are yet - either Grandma Mazur or Lulu. They both crack me up. I h OK I didn't add reviews to the last several books in this series because I was out of town (stuck in a snowstorm back east)& didn't get to my computer until today. I made two trips to Barnes & Noble while we were back east because I couldn't wait to get more of these books. This series in hilarious!!! Very quick reads too - perfect for passing the time in an airport with nothing else to do. I can't decide who my favorites are yet - either Grandma Mazur or Lulu. They both crack me up. I had several people several times give me strange looks in the airports and on the planes because I would just crack up laughing. My family is now used to it and just shake their head no longer embarrassed. I just started #7 and already have #8 waiting for me when I am done.I have never read a series that is this long and that I am still enjoying and can't wait for the next one. ...more *** 4.35 *** A buddy read with OhWell at BB&B This series is hilarious! Hands down, one of the funniest I have ever read, that keep on with the hilarity even 7 books into the series. We are already very well acquainted with Stephanie's family, and the consensus is that everyone needs a grandma Mazur in their life, just for giggles! Stephanie's mom is obviously going through \"the change\", but is doing anything and everything to deny it. And the poor Mr. Plum is hanging on to sanity by the tips *** 4.35 *** A buddy read with OhWell at BB&B This series is hilarious! Hands down, one of the funniest I have ever read, that keep on with the hilarity even 7 books into the series. We are already very well acquainted with Stephanie's family, and the consensus is that everyone needs a grandma Mazur in their life, just for giggles! Stephanie's mom is obviously going through \"the change\", but is doing anything and everything to deny it. And the poor Mr. Plum is hanging on to sanity by the tips of his toes.... The only thing Mrs. Plum can hold up as an example to all is her sainted normal daughter Valerie, who is happily married to a perfect husband, with two little girls who are perfect little ladies. Stephanie continues confounding her mother with her chosen profession of a bounty-hunter, and not very good one at that, and keep trying to encourage her to find a new job. A job where no one is getting shot at and she is not known as the mother of a woman who keeps on finding dead bodies. At least there is the engagement (but no ring!!!) and possible impending marriage to Morelli to look foreword to... Imagine everyone's surprise when one evening for supper who but the perfect, perfect Valerie and her little lady girls show up with all of their luggage and no warning.... Oooo, what joy ensues!!!! Just a little snippet of the joy Valerie brings to this volume: \"I'm not perky . . . I'm cheerful. I am absolutely not crying anymore, ever again. No one likes a Gloomy Gus. I'm going to get on with my life and I'm going to be happy. I'm going to be so goddamn happy Mary Sunshine's going to look like a loser.\" Yikes. \"And do you know why I can be happy? I can be happy because I'm well adjusted.\" Good thing Valerie moved back to Jersey. We'd fix that.\" .... \"Of course I'm the bounty hunter type,\" she said enthusiastically. \"I just have to get into the right mind-set.\" She sat up straighter on my couch and started singing the rubber tree ant song. \"He's got hiiiigh hopes . . . hiiiigh hopes!\" Good thing my gun was in the kitchen, because I had an urge to shoot Valerie. This was taking the cheerful thing way beyond where I wanted to go.\" ...... Yep, they will fix all that perkiness right out of her:):):) As always, Stephanie is on a hopeless case to catch a bond jumper, an old mob guy with enlarged prostate and vision problems... She has a new car, we all know how this turns out, don't we... And she is still caught up in a struggle of attraction between two perfect alpha males... I am not usually for love triangles, but even the most prudish among us would find it hard to choose between Morelli and Ranger, and I honestly am very happy I am not in that situation... In this case and THIS CASE ONLY, I totally vote for polygamy and a menage:):):) This is a great addition to the series, but be warned, things go a bit differently in the romance department... Absolute must read for the fans of Stephanie Plum!!! Now I wish all happy reading and may you find joy in every book!!! ...more Bob the dog is still around. Mooner, the dejected stoner is still around\u2014although his roommate seems to have turned up missing and Mooner just might have to move in with Stephanie for protection when the bodies start showing up. Mooner\u2019s roommate, by the way is called Dealer because, despite his penchant for administering your standard cocaine derived drugs to the neighborhood, he supplies vast amounts of Metamucil to the senior citizens and an incredible discount. So you can see why all hell br Bob the dog is still around. Mooner, the dejected stoner is still around\u2014although his roommate seems to have turned up missing and Mooner just might have to move in with Stephanie for protection when the bodies start showing up. Mooner\u2019s roommate, by the way is called Dealer because, despite his penchant for administering your standard cocaine derived drugs to the neighborhood, he supplies vast amounts of Metamucil to the senior citizens and an incredible discount. So you can see why all hell breaks loose in the Burg when Dealer goes missing. Wait a minute. Did Morelli propose? Did Stephanie accidently set a date? What the heck is the real case Stephanie is on anyway? Does it matter? Not really. This is the continuing saga of an inept (but sexy, no doubt) eccentric bounty hunter written in light breezy style. I am not even sure you need to read the first six. There is enough quick exposition you could pick this up as a stand alone and have just as good a time as if you started from the beginning. The running gags just keep getting better and better. Once again, you must tell no one I am reading this series. Thanks. ...more Evanovich went above and beyond when she created <+++>Seven Up</+++>! This book is filled with missing friends, death, a kidnapped Grandma Mazur and \u2026 mud wrestling? Ha! Stephanie Plum and Lula are my heroes. They really make me appreciate the diversity of friendships that I have. Even when my life decides to go a little strange, I can always count on the loved ones in my life to help me giggle. Stephanie: For the better part of my childhood, my professional aspirations were simple-I wanted to be an intergala Evanovich went above and beyond when she created <+++>Seven Up</+++>! This book is filled with missing friends, death, a kidnapped Grandma Mazur and \u2026 mud wrestling? Ha! Stephanie Plum and Lula are my heroes. They really make me appreciate the diversity of friendships that I have. Even when my life decides to go a little strange, I can always count on the loved ones in my life to help me giggle. Stephanie: For the better part of my childhood, my professional aspirations were simple-I wanted to be an intergalactic princess. I didn\u2019t care much about ruling hordes of space people. Mostly I wanted to wear the cape and the sexy boots and carry a cool weapon. Mazur does not disappoint in this book! Sharing a mysterious relationship with the bad guy of the book, DeChooch, her family is forced to endure her unusual and mind-blowing facts of her life. \u201cNot that I know of,\u201d Grandma said. \u201cFrom what I know, Loretta liked her men hot, and Eddie DeChooch couldn\u2019t get it up. I went out with him a couple of times and that thing of his was dead as a doorknob. No matter what I did I couldn\u2019t get nothing to happen.\u201d And if that wasn\u2019t enough\u2026Stephanie\u2019s perfect sister with her perfect life shows up unexpectedly for a shocking family reunion. \u201cI\u2019m never going to get married again,\u201d Valerie said between sobs. \u201cNever, never never. Marriage is the work of the devil. Men are the Antichrist. I\u2019m going to become a lesbian.\u201d In Seven Up, the earth-pulling, heart-tugging sexual tension between Ranger and Stephanie becomes explosive and tingling! I found myself shhing my husband and lifting my book up to hide his view while snapping, \u201cHold on! This is a good part!!\u201d :0 I love Morelli. I do. I think the relationship has grown and it\u2019s very cool. But there is always the part of me that craves the bad boy. The untamable. The totally rockin\u2019 awesome and downright sexy shadow of a man that lurks in my dreams and pulls a reaction from me that I seriously doubt I\u2019d ever admit I don\u2019t especially want to marry a cop. Morelli doesn\u2019t want to marry a bounty hunter. And then there\u2019s Ranger. I mean, what if I spent the night with Ranger? What then? Suppose he was so amazing I got ruined for all other men. Suppose he was better in the sack than Joe. Not that Joe was a slouch in bed. It was just that Joe was mortal, and I wasn\u2019t sure about Ranger. One part of me hopes Morelli pulls through and doesn\u2019t ruin his chances with Stephanie, but the other part crosses my fingers that the feelings between Ranger and Stephanie rip things apart\u2026 Mmm.. I look forward to reading the rest of the series just to glide through the special moments of uncomfortable and awkward yumminess that leaves you hanging\u2026wondering if the dreams will ever come true. As always, Lula\u2019s graceful eccentricities leave me breathless with laughter. In this book, Stephanie and Lula become closer and share more intimate moments. It\u2019s very cool to watch friendships blossom. And with Stephanie and Lula\u2019s friendship, you can only anticipate and imagine what will happen next. Lula reset the safety on the gun. \u201cI think I messed my pants,\u201d she said. \u201cUh-oh,\u201d Lula said. \u201cAre you crying?\u201d \u201cNo. I think I inhaled a bug a couple blocks ago.\u201d I definitely recommend this book to anyone that is reading this series in order. Although the book can be understood as a stand-alone, the relationships will leave you oooing if you start at the beginning. Mild sexual contact. Non-descriptive but gruesome violence. As far as age preferences, I would definitely advise to read this book before allowing a young adult to do so. Immature adults should not read this book. Kindle is charging, and the dishes are done! Time to start the next book in the Stephanie Plum series, Hard Eight! Happy reading! <3 ...more It's no secret that I love this series, Stephanie's antics and her crazy family never fail to make me giggle and these books are the perfect thing to pick up when you're having a bad day and just need something to make you smile. You'd think that Stephanie might be getting the hang of this bounty hunter thing by now but unfortunately for her she's just as terrible as ever. Even when she's up against a pensioner things don't go to plan for our plucky heroine and her sidekick Lula. I swear these tw It's no secret that I love this series, Stephanie's antics and her crazy family never fail to make me giggle and these books are the perfect thing to pick up when you're having a bad day and just need something to make you smile. You'd think that Stephanie might be getting the hang of this bounty hunter thing by now but unfortunately for her she's just as terrible as ever. Even when she's up against a pensioner things don't go to plan for our plucky heroine and her sidekick Lula. I swear these two could get themselves in trouble in a kids soft play area! Throw in family drama with her not-so-perfect sister Valerie who has moved back home with her two daughters and put Grandma Mazur on a motorbike and you know you're going to be in for an interesting ride, especially since all that's before we even think about the two men in her life. Stephanie somehow seems to be accidentally engaged to Morelli even though he never officially proposed and now that it looks like she's off the market (her mother is already shopping for the wedding dress and Grandma Mazur has the hall booked!) Ranger has decided it's time to up the ante and make his presence felt. What's a girl to do when she's stuck between two very hard, very hot alpha men who both want to stake their claim? Personally if I was Stephanie I'd be tempted to keep them both but I'm not sure if either Morelli or Ranger would be willing to share. There's no point me going into detail about the plot, if you're familiar with this series you know what to expect by now and you'll love this just as much as the first six books. If you're new to the series what the hell are you waiting for - go and grab a copy of One for the Money now and prepare to laugh from start to finish. ...more Something I think a lot of people forget about this series is that it's not supposed to be literary genius. It's supposed to be entertaining, lighthearted, fun. While the basic plot of the books in this series tends to have the same set-up, what changes is the personal relationships. I think the action of the books is more of a means to an end. The characters need something to do so they are hunting down bad guys, and in the process the real story, the story of the character relationships, devel Something I think a lot of people forget about this series is that it's not supposed to be literary genius. It's supposed to be entertaining, lighthearted, fun. While the basic plot of the books in this series tends to have the same set-up, what changes is the personal relationships. I think the action of the books is more of a means to an end. The characters need something to do so they are hunting down bad guys, and in the process the real story, the story of the character relationships, develops. The characters don't grow dramatically throughout the books, but I think they change in subtle ways and they keep the story interesting. For me, this is a fun series to read and has a couple of great characters that make me smile and keep me reading. If you don't mind the repetetiveness of the plot, I think these are a great series of books to read and a lot of fun. Can't wait to see more of the relationships developing and what will happen next, and I hope it continues to stay interesting. ...more Attenzione: si sconsiglia la lettura di questi libri sui mezzi pubblici, o in mezzo alla gente in generale, per non attirarsi occhiate confuse dalle altre persone mentre state ridendo come degli scemi leggendo dell'ennesima avventura di Nonna Mazur. No senti Janet, non puoi continuare cos\u00ec..io vorrei leggere anche altri libri ma se molli una bomba nell'ultima riga e mezza del libro, io come faccio?? La storia \u00e8 sempre la stessa: Steph, nel bel mezzo di falliti tentativi di recupero del MA di turno Attenzione: si sconsiglia la lettura di questi libri sui mezzi pubblici, o in mezzo alla gente in generale, per non attirarsi occhiate confuse dalle altre persone mentre state ridendo come degli scemi leggendo dell'ennesima avventura di Nonna Mazur. No senti Janet, non puoi continuare cos\u00ec..io vorrei leggere anche altri libri ma se molli una bomba nell'ultima riga e mezza del libro, io come faccio?? La storia \u00e8 sempre la stessa: Steph, nel bel mezzo di falliti tentativi di recupero del MA di turno, si ritrova in mezzo ad un omicidio e lo risolve per culo (e grazie a Morelli e Ranger). Detto cos\u00ec, non sembrano molto convincenti come libri, ma la Evanovich \u00e8 in grado di tenerti incollato fino all'ultima parola e di farti sbellicare dalle risate per tutto il tempo. ...more Yes, I read book 6 and 7 in one day . . . I am on medical leave. It is the weekend. These books are my entertainment. So, book 7 finds us looking for an old retired Mob guy who may have killed a kind old lady. Ranger ups the heat on Stephanie by making a deal with her . . . if she wants his help it is going to cost her. Stephanie attempts to entertain the wedding proposal and out of fear of giving her mother, who comes unglued when perfect daughter Valerie returns home after her marriage crumble Yes, I read book 6 and 7 in one day . . . I am on medical leave. It is the weekend. These books are my entertainment. So, book 7 finds us looking for an old retired Mob guy who may have killed a kind old lady. Ranger ups the heat on Stephanie by making a deal with her . . . if she wants his help it is going to cost her. Stephanie attempts to entertain the wedding proposal and out of fear of giving her mother, who comes unglued when perfect daughter Valerie returns home after her marriage crumbles, says she may have a heart attack. She sets a bogus wedding date to appease the women in her life and if puts pressure on Joe and she to discuss what their relationship is going to look like when the lights are on, they are fully dressed, and not on a surface they can use for sex. I believe Joe's fear that something horrible is going to happen to Stephanie really freaks him out and makes him say things -- really stupid things. This opens the door for Ranger who is continuing to up the heat by making a deal with Stephanie. The deal involves her having to pay him in nonmonetary ways should she need his help bringing in the old mob guy. Oh, yeah . . . I totally forgot about her two missing stoner friends. No one could ever say Stephanie is a biggot. She has friends from all walks of life. ...more Is it possible to give zero stars? This book was awful. One of the few times in my life where I thougth to myself, \"I could have written this same story and same characters myself, and it would have been much better.\" Does this woman even have a college degree? Did she go to SLCK? Salt Lake Community Kollege? Please don't read this book, you will get dumber. The main character is unlikeable, a tramp, and an embarrassment to women everywhere. America needs to do better than this book. You know wh Is it possible to give zero stars? This book was awful. One of the few times in my life where I thougth to myself, \"I could have written this same story and same characters myself, and it would have been much better.\" Does this woman even have a college degree? Did she go to SLCK? Salt Lake Community Kollege? Please don't read this book, you will get dumber. The main character is unlikeable, a tramp, and an embarrassment to women everywhere. America needs to do better than this book. You know who will like this book? The same public who likes \"Deal or no Deal\". Picking random suitcases with hot but fake looking women? America must do better! ...more Toujours aussi bon. J'aimerais beaucoup que la m\u00e8re ait un r\u00f4le un peu plus important dans un des tomes suivants, car elle a un potentiel comique assez immense comme personnage ! Sinon, encore une fin hummmm.... Mais heureusement cette fois j'ai pr\u00e9vu : j'ai le tome suivant entre les mains ! NA :) This was another roll-on-the-floor-laughing-helplessly entry in the Stephanie Plum series. Stephanie's after another ancient mob-connected FTA who seems to have an uncanny ability to disappear even when she seemingly has him in her grasp. The plot revolves around the disappearance of a mob guy's heart. It was removed after his recent death and thereby hangs a tale. Amidst it all, Stephanie's perfect sister turns up with her two kids, in from California where her perfect husband has just taken al This was another roll-on-the-floor-laughing-helplessly entry in the Stephanie Plum series. Stephanie's after another ancient mob-connected FTA who seems to have an uncanny ability to disappear even when she seemingly has him in her grasp. The plot revolves around the disappearance of a mob guy's heart. It was removed after his recent death and thereby hangs a tale. Amidst it all, Stephanie's perfect sister turns up with her two kids, in from California where her perfect husband has just taken all their money and deserted them. She now thinks she might like to become a bounty hunter like Stephanie, and, oh yes, perhaps turn lesbian. There are some truly crazy and scary characters in the book as well and, of course, Stephanie's usual posse of Lula, Ranger, Grandma Mazur (who gets kidnapped), Mooner and Dougie (who get kidnapped), and even Vinnie (who doesn't get kidnapped). Of course, it all comes out right in the end, except that the wedding with Joe has been called off and she's feuding with him. Now here comes Ranger again and we are left with the tease of will she or won't she? Tune in to \"Hard Eight\" to find out, I guess. ...more Those who have yet to discover Evanovich\u2019s Stephanie Plum and her weird relatives and relationships are missing a huge treat or living in a cave. I recommend beginning with the first in the series, One for the Money, but Seven Up stands alone quite well. Grandma Mazur has finally gotten her driver\u2019s license, bought a red Corvette, and lost the driver\u2019s license for too many speeding tickets, all in the space of five days. The scenes at the dinner table are always my favorite with Stephanie\u2019s father Those who have yet to discover Evanovich\u2019s Stephanie Plum and her weird relatives and relationships are missing a huge treat or living in a cave. I recommend beginning with the first in the series, One for the Money, but Seven Up stands alone quite well. Grandma Mazur has finally gotten her driver\u2019s license, bought a red Corvette, and lost the driver\u2019s license for too many speeding tickets, all in the space of five days. The scenes at the dinner table are always my favorite with Stephanie\u2019s father trying not to choke on his food every time Grandma Mazur makes some outrageous statement or describes which funeral director does a better job at making up their clients and why. \u201c \u2018I saw a television show the other week about a woman like that,\u2019 Grandma said. \u2018This woman was real sexy, and it turned out that one of the men she was flirting with was an alien from outer space. And the alien took the woman up to his spaceship and did all kinds of things to her.\u2019 \u201cMy father hunkered lower over his plateful of food and mumbled something indiscernible except for the words . . . Crazy old bat. \u201c \u2018What about Loretta [recent murder victim found in Eddie\u2019s garage:] and Eddie DeChooch?\u2019 I asked. \u2018Do you suppose they were seeing each other?\u2019 \u201c \u2018Not that I know of,\u2019 Grandma said. \u2018From what I know Loretta liked her men hot, and Eddie DeChooch couldn\u2019t get it up. I went with him a couple of times, and that thing of his was dead as a doorknob. No matter what I did I couldn\u2019t get a thing to happen.\u2019 \u201cMy father looked up at Grandma, and a piece of meat fell out of his mouth. \u201cMy mother was red-faced at the other end of the table. She sucked in some air and made the sign of the cross. \u2018Mother of God,\u2019 she said. \u201cI fiddled with my fork. \u2018If I left now I probably wouldn\u2019t get any pineapple upside-down cake, right?\u2019 \u201c \u2018Not for the rest of your life,\u2019 my mother said. It seems Eddie DeChooch, half-blind and really old, had decided to make a killing by smuggling some cigarettes. Unfortunately, Louie, his contact in Richmond, died of a heart attack, and when contacted, the family lawyer told Eddie to \u201cbring the fart back.\u201d Eddie\u2019s hearing being substandard, he thought he heard the lawyer say heart. Arrested by the police on the way back from Richmond, Eddie had skipped bail and so Stephanie was assigned to go get him. Much easier said than done, because the heart has disappeared and the whole family, mob-connected, is determined to get it back, only no one knows where it is. Throw in two crazy old ladies, a Grandma Mazur kidnapping (she was thrilled and intended to keep talking about it for weeks), a wedding dress, another smashed-up Stephanie car, and Ranger giving Stephanie more than goose bumps, and you have another classic Evanovich. Light but lots of fun. ...more SERIE STEPHANIE PLUM n. 7 LETTURA DI GRUPPO E&l Esilarante come al solito. Lula e Bob questa volta hanno concorrenza. Il Luna \u00e8 uno spasso. Con la tutina da supereroe poi..da morir dal ridere. Solita indagine strampalata. Ritorna la sorella dalla vita perfetta Valerie dalla California che si scopre che non ha poi la vita cos\u00ec perfetta. Addirittura vuoel diventare Lesbica. Stephanie intanto \u00e8 alle prese con i preparativi del suo matrimonio con Morelli, ma c'\u00e8 Ranger che la fa vacillare. Finisce tu SERIE STEPHANIE PLUM n. 7 LETTURA DI GRUPPO E&l Esilarante come al solito. Lula e Bob questa volta hanno concorrenza. Il Luna \u00e8 uno spasso. Con la tutina da supereroe poi..da morir dal ridere. Solita indagine strampalata. Ritorna la sorella dalla vita perfetta Valerie dalla California che si scopre che non ha poi la vita cos\u00ec perfetta. Addirittura vuoel diventare Lesbica. Stephanie intanto \u00e8 alle prese con i preparativi del suo matrimonio con Morelli, ma c'\u00e8 Ranger che la fa vacillare. Finisce tutto in fumo e finisce anche male,almeno per me..insomma..Steph togliti lo sfizio e poi torna da Morelli perch\u00e8 potrei incazzarmi come non mai! Ovviamente attendo il prossimo con ansia. Firmate qui per la pubblicazione dei successivi volumi! http://firmiamo.it/3-libri-di-janet-e... ...more I may be sized more like Lula than Stephanie, but Lycra leggings and a rugby top - my version of her spandex shorts and hockey top - are a comfortable combination I think I'd been neglecting of late, so thanks to Ms Evanovich for reminding me of them. To the book. Glad to see Dougie & Mooner are still around - not being a dog-lover, I'm less certain about Bob - and a big hello to once perfect Valerie and her children. OK, so the latter have nothing to do with the main storyline of smuggled ci I may be sized more like Lula than Stephanie, but Lycra leggings and a rugby top - my version of her spandex shorts and hockey top - are a comfortable combination I think I'd been neglecting of late, so thanks to Ms Evanovich for reminding me of them. To the book. Glad to see Dougie & Mooner are still around - not being a dog-lover, I'm less certain about Bob - and a big hello to once perfect Valerie and her children. OK, so the latter have nothing to do with the main storyline of smuggled cigarettes and other stuff being transported and lost, but, as ever the subplots and family arguments add to the mayhem. I think I finished this one just after lunch ... ...more I really enjoyed listening to this novel while I was running. Stephanie has to go after Eddie DeChooch, which should be easy considering he is pretty old and depressed. Unfortunately that's not the case. Stephanie needs to go on a wild goose chase, which involves kidnapping, a dead body and a love triangle. Seven Up was an entertaining read (or listen), which is all I need on my long runs. There was a few laugh out loud moments and a few surprises that I didn't see coming. Io non ci credo che, alla settima avventura di Steph, io rida ancora come una matta. Al contrario di quanto accada di solito, qui procede tutto di bene in meglio :P E in occasione di questa mia scoperta, ho fatto uscire il mio estro e mi sono cimentata nella stesura di una bella canzoncina... ok, magari non \u00e8 proprio che l'ho inventata di sana pianta :'D (per l'allegra canzoncina - si prega di non aspettarsi MOLTO - aspettate che butti gi\u00f9 qualche riga sulla trama di questo settimo capitolo della Io non ci credo che, alla settima avventura di Steph, io rida ancora come una matta. Al contrario di quanto accada di solito, qui procede tutto di bene in meglio :P E in occasione di questa mia scoperta, ho fatto uscire il mio estro e mi sono cimentata nella stesura di una bella canzoncina... ok, magari non \u00e8 proprio che l'ho inventata di sana pianta :'D (per l'allegra canzoncina - si prega di non aspettarsi MOLTO - aspettate che butti gi\u00f9 qualche riga sulla trama di questo settimo capitolo della bounty hunter pi\u00f9 figa di sempre! :3). Eddie DeChooch \u00e8 la principale fonte di spasso di \"Colpo al cuore\" (per una volta mi trovo a non capire il titolo originale...). Mezzo sordo, mezzo cieco, a suo dire \"depresso\", mancata apparenza e con un affare losco tra le mani. Com'\u00e8 possibile che nessuno riesca a beccarlo? Per me, rimane ancora un mistero. Ma. In quanto a comicit\u00e0, non \u00e8 mai da sottovalutare la famiglia Plum, stavolta al completo, n\u00e8 tantomeno nonna Mazur che, diciamocelo, \u00e8 diventata la portabandiera (boh, passatemi il termine) della serie. Valerie, la sorella di Stephanie torna all'ovile con le due figlie, causa divorzio da marito fedifrago. Il suo ritorno non fa che confermare quello che gi\u00e0 tutti pensavano: non ce n'\u00e8 uno normale in quella famiglia. \\OO/ E poi c'\u00e8 l'eterna questione Ranger-Morelli. Io scelgo sin da subito, e gi\u00e0 alle prime righe di \"Bastardo numero uno\" i miei ormoni erano devoti a Joe . Ora, capisco che OVVIAMENTE nella vita reale non si pu\u00f2 essere cos\u00ec obiettivi. Di fronte ad un Ranger metterei in dubbio persino di avere cinque dita per ogni mano (Steph, se la cosa andasse in porto... potrei perdonarti). Ma visto che non devo affrontare tali dubbi amletici, mi permetto di fare un tifo sfegatato per lui, Morelli. C'\u00e8 una donna che rider ti far\u00e0 ogni volta che una MC c'\u00e8 qualcosa inventer\u00e0. Stessa melodia un'altra armonia semplice magia che ti cambier\u00e0 ti scompiscer\u00e0. Quando sembra che non succeda pi\u00f9 ti riporta via come la marea la famiglia Pluuum. Angolo citazioni \"S\u00ec, siamo lesbiche\" disse Valerie. Mia madre perse i sensi. Bum . Stesa sul pavimento. Tutti si alzarono di scatto per correre da mia madre. Apr\u00ec gli occhi ma non mosse neanche un muscolo per almeno trenta secondi. Poi url\u00f2: \"Una lesbica! Madre di Dio. Frank, tua figlia \u00e8 lesbica!\". Mio padre guard\u00f2 Valerie di traverso. \"Quella che porti \u00e8 la mia cravatta?\" \"Hai un gran bel coraggio\" disse mia madre, ancora supina a terra. \"Tutti questi anni, in cui sei stata normale e con un marito, hai abitato in California. E adesso che sei qui diventi lesbica. Non basta che tua sorella vada in giro a sparare alle persone? Che razza di famiglia \u00e8 questa?\"[...] Mary Alice aveva cenato per tutto il tempo con la faccia nel piatto perch\u00e8 i cavalli non hanno mani. Quando alz\u00f2 il viso, era una maschera di pur\u00e8 di patate e salsa. \"Cos'\u00e8 una lesbica?\" chiese. Rimanemmo tutti paralizzati. \"E' quando una ragazza esce con le femmine anzich\u00e8 con i maschi\" disse la nonna. Angie si allung\u00f2 per prendere il latte. \"Si pensa che l'omosessualit\u00e0 sia causata da un cromosoma anormale.\" \"Giusto quello che stavo per dire\" disse la nonna. \"E i cavalli?\" chiese Mary Alice. \"Ci sono lesbiche tra i cavalli?\" Ci scambiammo delle occhiate. Eravamo imbarazzati. ...more I know people really love this series, but I am only finding it ok. I have liked some parts of some books, but overall I'm not in love with them. In this 7th book, it's more of the same. Feed Rex, check the contents of her purse, make up her hair big, ignore the semi-serious relationship with Joe while continuing to lust after Ranger, take Grandma Mazur to a viewing, blah, blah blah. It's a cookie utter, that I actually mind less when I'm listening to than reading. I usually listen to these on a I know people really love this series, but I am only finding it ok. I have liked some parts of some books, but overall I'm not in love with them. In this 7th book, it's more of the same. Feed Rex, check the contents of her purse, make up her hair big, ignore the semi-serious relationship with Joe while continuing to lust after Ranger, take Grandma Mazur to a viewing, blah, blah blah. It's a cookie utter, that I actually mind less when I'm listening to than reading. I usually listen to these on audio, but my library system doesn't have this one... Anyway, I think that formula worked for a bit but it's time to change things up a bit. I don't really love Mooner and Dougie as permanent additions to the stories- they don't really add anything to the story except harmless potheads. Nothing seems to bother them, so it's hard to be bothered for them. After the last book, we've had almost too much Grandma Mazur. She's like ice cream. As an occasional treat she's awesome, but if you eat the whole carton she makes you sick. Even Lula seems to need a new thing. And don't get me started on Stephanie's love life. There's <---C>Joe Morelli</---C>, and I like Joe. After his intro in book one, I looked ahead and hoped he'd be in the rest of the series. I like their relationship when it progresses, but added the tension between her and Ranger seems weird and it's also a little icky. I mean, in the first book she was single and he came to her while she was handcuffed to a shower rod and nothing, then suddenly 4 books later he's all over her? It's weird. And I still say the fact that she thinks it's okay to even kiss Ranger when she's seeing Joe is ridiculous considering she's ready to shoot Joe if he spends time with someone else even when it's purely work related. And she was the one pushing for commitment and then once she got it, she started lusting after Ranger? Ick! I think overall my problem is that no one is moving forward really. Time jumps forward at least a month, sometimes almost 6 months withe every book, but the characters seem to be stuck in the rut of the same old, same old. Her mother takes a step in this book, but other than that... It would be so interesting to see Stephanie actually get better at being a Bounty Hunter. Maybe learn to shoot even if she never does. Maybe use her stun gun once in a while, possibly be prepared and use her pepper spray. Maybe actually fully commit to Joe and start trying to grow up figure out how to be in the relationship and still be herself. Maybe while living with him, still trying to sneak out and handle things.. I don't know what the answers is. All that being said, I'll probably continue the series. I'm back on the audio books and they are great because I can listen to them at the gym and in the car and I have no problem putting them down and it's just as easy to pick them up again. I like CJ Critt, the reader she makes the whole thing interesting as well. ...more All Stephanie had to do was bring in Eddie DeChooch. He is an old man who is basically blind, hard of hearing, and is so depressed he doesn't want to leave his house....so how hard can that task be right? Wrong! As always, Stephanie underestimates her catch and is left looking like an amateur bounty hunter. Soon she learns that her Grandma has a connection to Eddie and it's one that Stephanie wishes she would never have heard about. Too much information about sums it up. To top all that off DeCh All Stephanie had to do was bring in Eddie DeChooch. He is an old man who is basically blind, hard of hearing, and is so depressed he doesn't want to leave his house....so how hard can that task be right? Wrong! As always, Stephanie underestimates her catch and is left looking like an amateur bounty hunter. Soon she learns that her Grandma has a connection to Eddie and it's one that Stephanie wishes she would never have heard about. Too much information about sums it up. To top all that off DeChooch is now after Stephanie's friends and her, but why? Why would an elderly man want to see them all dead? What is it that he keeps asking for from them and why does he think they have whatever \"it\" is? Soon there are kidnappings, gun fights, murder, and all kinds of mayhem! Mixed in with all that work stuff, Stephanie has personal problems too, like her sister showing up on her parents' doorstep with her two kids with shocking news, Ranger giving Stephanie some help in this case....but with consequences, and her pending wedding to Joe Morelli causing way more fights than happy bliss. Will she survive trying to capture DeChooch long enough to even have to worry about those person problems on her plate? What's this old man have to hide? As always, I just loved this book! I just can't get enough of Stephanie Plum and all her troubles and predicaments she gets into. It seems as though every time things are going in the \"green\" for her she soon stumbles and goes right back into the \"red\". It really does remind me of my own life, in the respect of how you think you got things all figured out and then...BAM...a roadblock again. As much has I love Evanovich's writing and her Plum Series, I still find myself waiting for the other shoe to drop, and to run into a book that hits that series wall. You know the one, the one that makes you think, Oh boy...this is the same poop different book and time for the series to end. However, Evanovich keeps on surprising me by making sure this doesn't happen to her readers in this series. This is quite impressive, especially after being on book seven here! That takes quite the talented writer if you ask me. I love the way the action starts in this book on page one and doesn't let up until the last page, last word. Even at the end you are left awaiting the next read to see what will really happen to poor Stephanie next. I love the characters and I wouldn't think they could get much more developed after seven books, but they have and I'm sure they will be even more in the books to come. There is a reason Evanovich is on the bestseller lists all the time, she is GREAT that's why! Great author, fantastic characters, wonderful plot, and amazing book!!!! A MUST READ!! 5/5 Stars!! ...more I thought after taking a break with a few other books, I would be OK reading Stephanie Plum again. Wrong! Not a few pages in, Stephanie is once again inept and idiotic. She really annoyed me that after 40% through the book, I started skimming. I don't know if I want to continue reading this series anymore. The secondary characters are what have kept my interest but now even that is not enough to get me through Stephanie's stupidity. **Edited to add...after reading this review of Book#17 on Amazo I thought after taking a break with a few other books, I would be OK reading Stephanie Plum again. Wrong! Not a few pages in, Stephanie is once again inept and idiotic. She really annoyed me that after 40% through the book, I started skimming. I don't know if I want to continue reading this series anymore. The secondary characters are what have kept my interest but now even that is not enough to get me through Stephanie's stupidity. **Edited to add...after reading this review of Book#17 on Amazon which is exactly what I'm feeling: http://www.amazon.com/review/RA313RWF... \"Characters need growth in a series. Stephanie has not grown, in fact I could argue that she has regressed. After seventeen books, she STILL can't shoot her gun, she can't use handcuffs, she blows up cars, and has no desire to learn self defense. I'm sorry, but she's an idiot. And not a funny one anymore. To me, and I know that I am not alone, Stephanie used to be a source of comic relief. She made me laugh and took me out of the seriousness of my life or other more suspenseful books I was reading at the time. But she's no longer funny, she's a joke. \" And the flipflop relationship with Morelli and Ranger: \"I was a Joe fan in the beginning of the series, but then he turned rather chauvinistic, spouting how she should be barefoot and pregnant and not working, and that got my feminist hackles all up and pissy. I've always been a Ranger girl, but I can't understand how he can still be around playing for scraps. Is her vagina magic?\" INDEED! ...more My favorite part: \"That's the dumbest load of shit I ever heard,\" Lula said, biting into a chicken thigh. She stopped talking and chewing and opened her eyes wide. \"Urg,\" she said. Then she started waving her arms and clutching her throat. \"Are you okay?\" I asked. More throat clutching. \"Whack her on the back,\" someone offered from another table. \"That doesn't work,\" someone else said. \"You're supposed to do that Heimlich thing.\" I ran around to Lula and tried to wrap my arms around her to do the Heim My favorite part: \"That's the dumbest load of shit I ever heard,\" Lula said, biting into a chicken thigh. She stopped talking and chewing and opened her eyes wide. \"Urg,\" she said. Then she started waving her arms and clutching her throat. \"Are you okay?\" I asked. More throat clutching. \"Whack her on the back,\" someone offered from another table. \"That doesn't work,\" someone else said. \"You're supposed to do that Heimlich thing.\" I ran around to Lula and tried to wrap my arms around her to do the Heimlich, but my arms wouldn't go all the way around. A big guy walked over from the counter, got Lula in a bear hug from behind, and squeezed. \"Ptoooh,\" Lula said. And a piece of chicken flew out of her mouth and hit a kid two tables over in the head. \"You've got to lose some weight,\" I said to Lula. \"It's just I've got big bones,\" Lula said. Everything quieted down, and Lula sucked on her milkshake. \"I had an idea while I was dying,\" Lula said. \"It's clear what you've got to do next.\" ...more Not my favorite, but enjoyable nonetheless. Totaled car? check. Viewing at Stiva's? check. Bad guys? check. Hot guys? check and check. Random guys breaking into Stephanie's apartment? check. Quips about NJ and all its beauty? check. So, what's different? Stephanie is trying on wedding gowns and her previously perfect sister is trying on lesbian for a while. Moon Man and Dougie are missing, a mobster has a heart attack, and there are a pair of old Italian ladies that makes Grandma Morelli look like Not my favorite, but enjoyable nonetheless. Totaled car? check. Viewing at Stiva's? check. Bad guys? check. Hot guys? check and check. Random guys breaking into Stephanie's apartment? check. Quips about NJ and all its beauty? check. So, what's different? Stephanie is trying on wedding gowns and her previously perfect sister is trying on lesbian for a while. Moon Man and Dougie are missing, a mobster has a heart attack, and there are a pair of old Italian ladies that makes Grandma Morelli look like Mother Theresa. Things get ugly in Seven Up...including Stephanie's hair color. I laughed so hard while reading Hot Six I couldn't wait to go for Seven Up. I think reading the two books back-to-back took away some of the hilarity. Usually I read a few heavier books in between, making the Janet Evanovich series feel like a cold beer on a hot day. I'm taking another break, and I'll be back with Hard Eight. Seven Up might not have been my favorite, but I'm still moving on to No. 8. ...more Yowza! Life is complicated for Stephanie Plum. First there's Joe Morelli, who only has to touch her neck to send fire to her doodah. Then there's Ranger, who makes her stomach clench and her toe's curl. Though she is sort of engaged to Joe, neither of them are ready for the Big M, and now Ranger has just offered Stephanie a very indecent proposal in exchange for his aid in bringing down Stephanie's latest skip. Stephanie isn't sure what shoe will drop next, but she's about to find out. Hi-lights Yowza! Life is complicated for Stephanie Plum. First there's Joe Morelli, who only has to touch her neck to send fire to her doodah. Then there's Ranger, who makes her stomach clench and her toe's curl. Though she is sort of engaged to Joe, neither of them are ready for the Big M, and now Ranger has just offered Stephanie a very indecent proposal in exchange for his aid in bringing down Stephanie's latest skip. Stephanie isn't sure what shoe will drop next, but she's about to find out. Hi-lights include: 1. Bob the dog and his morning poo adventures 2. Mooner in his super dude suit 3. Grandma Mazur gets frisky 4. Valerie is on the turn 5. Stephanie makes her mud wrestling debut 6. Vincent enters a shoot out. 7. Ranger, no longer in the wind, is entering Stephanie's bed. This series is mindlessly entertaining, ridiculously over the top, sexy and oh so funny. Can't wait for Hard Eight! ...more If you've read the other six books in this series you have no reason to stop before you read this one. Many of the same characters appear in Seven UP. How is Eddie DeChooch to so hard to catch??? He's old, half blind, and crazy as hell. Well our heroine Stephanie Plum probably thinks it's like catching a greased up pig. There story is pretty interesting with more than your average twists and turns. Our best friend Bob the dog is at it again after eating some leftover chinese food that Steph and If you've read the other six books in this series you have no reason to stop before you read this one. Many of the same characters appear in Seven UP. How is Eddie DeChooch to so hard to catch??? He's old, half blind, and crazy as hell. Well our heroine Stephanie Plum probably thinks it's like catching a greased up pig. There story is pretty interesting with more than your average twists and turns. Our best friend Bob the dog is at it again after eating some leftover chinese food that Steph and Morelli left out. Grandma Mazur is headed to Stiva's again to check out the latest funeral, will she or won't she take a peek in the closed casket...read and find out. These books are so entertaining I still wonder to myself why I never started this series sooner. I will continue reading this series and luckily there is at least 18 or 19 of these bay boys, ha ha. ...more This is the point where I say goodbye to the characters I\u2019ve come to love: Grandma Mazur, Lula, Mooner and Dougie, Bob the dog, and, last but not least, Joe Morelli, who certainly deserved better. I won't be continuing with the series. I have a problem with cheating, and while still trying to decide which definition applies to Stephanie Plum - \u201cwhore\u201d, as, while being Morelli's girlfriend, she made a deal with Ranger to sleep with him if he helps her on a case (Ch. 8: \"If we do it now does it co This is the point where I say goodbye to the characters I\u2019ve come to love: Grandma Mazur, Lula, Mooner and Dougie, Bob the dog, and, last but not least, Joe Morelli, who certainly deserved better. I won't be continuing with the series. I have a problem with cheating, and while still trying to decide which definition applies to Stephanie Plum - \u201cwhore\u201d, as, while being Morelli's girlfriend, she made a deal with Ranger to sleep with him if he helps her on a case (Ch. 8: \"If we do it now does it count as a credit toward capturing DeChooch?\" \"We aren't doing it now.\" \"Why not?\" ) or \u201cslut\u201d, in her own words (Ch.13: \u201dNot only was I a slut lusting after two men,\u201d\u2026 ) \u2013 the fact remains she is a cheater. I no longer find her amusing, and I no longer find anything likable about Ranger. ...more The smash hit No. 1 bestselling author takes you on the ride of your life in the seventh Stephanie Plum adventure. Stephanie thinks she's going after an easy FTA: a senior citizen charged with smuggling contraband cigarettes. But when she and Lula show up at his house, they get more than they bargained for - a corpse in the woodshed and an old man on the lam. Stephanie's mind is on other matters, however, because she has two proposals to consider vice cop Joe Morelli is proposing marriage, and f The smash hit No. 1 bestselling author takes you on the ride of your life in the seventh Stephanie Plum adventure. Stephanie thinks she's going after an easy FTA: a senior citizen charged with smuggling contraband cigarettes. But when she and Lula show up at his house, they get more than they bargained for - a corpse in the woodshed and an old man on the lam. Stephanie's mind is on other matters, however, because she has two proposals to consider vice cop Joe Morelli is proposing marriage, and fellow bounty hunter Ranger is proposing a single perfect night... This series just keeps getting better!! I'm telling you people, go out and start reading these books!! ...more 1. I wanted this wedding to happen SO BAD 2. Steph picked out a dress...A DRESS!!! 3. Mooner was too much to handle in this book! More often than not, I was DYING everytime he appeared. Get it together Mooner! 4. Eddie DeChooch may just be my favorite FTA so far, how he kept escaping Steph is beyond me, but I loved every bit of it. 5. Bob needs to stick around. 6. He also needs to keep making visits to Joyce's yard. LOL 7. Joe and Steph NEED to be endgame 8. Grandma Mazur is the best character in this 1. I wanted this wedding to happen SO BAD 2. Steph picked out a dress...A DRESS!!! 3. Mooner was too much to handle in this book! More often than not, I was DYING everytime he appeared. Get it together Mooner! 4. Eddie DeChooch may just be my favorite FTA so far, how he kept escaping Steph is beyond me, but I loved every bit of it. 5. Bob needs to stick around. 6. He also needs to keep making visits to Joyce's yard. LOL 7. Joe and Steph NEED to be endgame 8. Grandma Mazur is the best character in this entire series. No question. 9. I am adjusting to Lorelei King reading my audiobook, it's a big adjustment for me! 10. Thank GOODNESS I have Hard Eight on hand! ...more Another amazing book from the series there just so awesome and funny and I can't help myself Oh My cette fin !!! Cracker Barrel restaurants have this cool program where you can \"buy\" an audio book at one restaurant and \"return\" it minus about a $4 rental fee at another of their restaurants. Unfortunately, I am driving a car on my current road trip with only a cassette tape deck , and the only audio book the Missoula Cracker Barrel had on cassette was this one. Years ago, I had liked \"One for the Money,\" which introduced the wisecracking bounty-hunting Stephanie Plum to the world, and was up for \"Two for th Cracker Barrel restaurants have this cool program where you can \"buy\" an audio book at one restaurant and \"return\" it minus about a $4 rental fee at another of their restaurants. Unfortunately, I am driving a car on my current road trip with only a cassette tape deck , and the only audio book the Missoula Cracker Barrel had on cassette was this one. Years ago, I had liked \"One for the Money,\" which introduced the wisecracking bounty-hunting Stephanie Plum to the world, and was up for \"Two for the Money\" based on \"One.\" \"Two,\" alas, read like an echo so I checked out of the Evanovich club. Until the Cracker Barrel. Seven books later, Stephanie is still terminally glib and ludicrously incompetent, having apparently learned nothing since her debut than the sizable market for More of the Same. The contents of her purse, her hair styles, and the appetite of her boyfriend's dog fill far more of the book's pages than trivial little things like ... plot. In reality, this is less a novel than a stand-up comedy routine without the stand-up. The writing was so cliched and the characters so stereotypical that I actually found myself guessing the next lines ahead of the audio - and getting them right! I also found the attempts at being risque merely raunchy. While a few isolated lines were genuinely funny, the verdict from here is bOring in the extreme! Nothing less than 1100 miles of empty road could have kept me going through it. Strongly not recommended. ...more", "Title": "Seven Up"},
