{"Comments": "TWO DESCRIPTIONS OF THE MATTHEW SHARDLAKE SERIES: Description the First : Take Sherlock Holmes and... 1. Crook his back \"Quasimodo\" style (oh how I wanted to say \u201cbend it like Beckham\u201d instead, but I figure it's time we all move on from that one)...and make sure you include a nice hump ; 2.<---F> Surgically remove 92</---F>.7% of the arrogant, ego-maniacal self love; 3. Replace Watson with a street-wise, well connected tough guy while deleting all hints of \u201cbromantic tension\u201d between the two; 4. Change the setting f TWO DESCRIPTIONS OF THE MATTHEW SHARDLAKE SERIES: Description the First : Take Sherlock Holmes and... 1. Crook his back \"Quasimodo\" style (oh how I wanted to say \u201cbend it like Beckham\u201d instead, but I figure it's time we all move on from that one)...and make sure you include a nice hump ; 2. Surgically remove 92.7% of the arrogant, ego-maniacal self love; 3. Replace Watson with a street-wise, well connected tough guy while deleting all hints of \u201cbromantic tension\u201d between the two; 4. Change the setting from Victorian England to the time of Henry VIII and the English Reformation where \u201cReformers\u201d are engaged in a protracted struggle against the \u201cPapist\u201d supporters of the Roman Catholic Church; 5. Switch localized and small time crimes and mysteries to vast political conspiracies with subtle, nuanced clues and a host of \u201cgrey\u201d characters struggling against the wider canvas of the Reformation; 6. Takeaway dumb, dorky stumbling blocks like Inspector \u201cIdiot savant minus the savant\u201d Lestrade and replace with rich, smart, capable, politically connected MEGAbastards with almost unlimited resources to cause mischief; 7. Add (and my apologies for Sir Arthur for this) superbly crafted plots, rich, nuanced characterizations and deeply immersive historical settings; and... ....YOU HAVE THE BRILLIANT MATTHEW SHARDLAKE SERIES BY C.J. SANSOM WITH OODLES AND OODLES OF WIN!! Description the Second : Take Sherlock Holmes and... First... beat him about the neck and chest with a burlap sack containing the full weight of his enormous ego until hot tears flow and he screams for Watson to bring him some cocaine and apologizes for being such arrogasshat pricktardo (it\u2019s foreign but I think you can translate). Second... tell Watson to grow a pair, send Sir Author to a writer\u2019s workshop and finish Lestrade\u2019s lobotomy Ninja style. Then... ...READ THE MATTHEW SHARDLAKE SERIES BY THE LIGHT OF THE FIRE BURNING AWAY THE EVIDENCE OF SHERLOCK'S MORE DREADFUL WARDROBE CHOICES...I MEAN, THE HAT HAS TO GO. 4.0 to 4.5 stars. Okay, okay, that was a bit much and the Holmes stories are actually quite good. However, I find the Matthew Shardlake series and the writing of <---A>C.J. Sansom</---A> to be substantially better. These are true blue historical mysteries that pull you completely into the time of the story (in this case 1541). <+++>Sovereign</+++> is the 3rd book in the series (there are currently five) and follows after Dissolution and Dark Fire . In this one, King Henry VIII is traveling to York on the famous \u201cProgress to the North\u201d to accept the submission of \u201cpapist\u201d rebels and grant pardons for those involved. Master Shardlake,<---M> an attorney</---M>, is sent ahead to York to assist with processing petitions to the King. At least that is his public reason for being there. Privately, he has been requested by Archbishop Cranmer to ensure the welfare of a dangerous conspirator and bring him safely from York to London...so he can be properly tortured in the Tower of London. Well, a murder occurring shortly after Matthew\u2019s arrival points to a vast conspiracy that could lead to disaster for the King and his family. I will leave it there and just say that the intertwining plots and subplots are very well done and engrossing. This is easily my favorite historical mystery series and among my favorite mystery series period. So why not 5 stars? Okay, here is my only gripe. The first book in the series was Dissolution and it was 320 pages long....AND NON STOP AWESOME FROM BEGINNING TO END!! Now, the last two books, Dark Fire and this have been almost TWICE as long. Now, the mysteries and conspiracies have gotten bigger and so some additional length is certainly welcomed. However, I still think that each of the last two stories are about 100 pages too long and so there are few parts that drag. Thus, I can\u2019t quite give it 5 stars. However, that is really a fairly minor quibble and some may even appreciate the stretching out of the narrative. Regardless, this is a superior series and the writing and plotting are top drawer and will make you see 16th century England when you close your eyes. Finally, Matthew Shardlake is an amazing character and acts as the perfect guide through these stories. Honorable, brilliant, determined, practical and very efficient. A GOOD MAN!! 4.0 stars. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!! ...more We all know what it\u2019s like to anticipate something so much that we are literally shaking with excitement. Shardlake had similar feelings about meeting his king; he couldn\u2019t wait to behold the presence of King Henry VIII. Except when that moment finally comes it almost breaks Shardlake in two. What does the obese matricidal tyrant do to cause such a reaction? Well he publicly humiliates Shardlake by mocking his appearance because clearly the king is the very essence of physical perfection, clearl We all know what it\u2019s like to anticipate something so much that we are literally shaking with excitement. Shardlake had similar feelings about meeting his king; he couldn\u2019t wait to behold the presence of King Henry VIII. Except when that moment finally comes it almost breaks Shardlake in two. What does the obese matricidal tyrant do to cause such a reaction? Well he publicly humiliates Shardlake by mocking his appearance because clearly the king is the very essence of physical perfection, clearly he is not beyond such vain fuelled low blows as Shardlake presumed: \"See the other lawyer by his side, the one that dropped his cap! I know he is a southron, see what a poor bent bottled spider he appears\u201d This may not seem like an overly terrible thing, but if you lived your entire life with such a strong insecurity, and then to have that same insecurity picked on by your king, it's like being struck with an iron fist. Shardlake does nothing but internalise such a comment making his self-esteem even lower. The comment almost makes him forget about his new mission, one that is rather mundane, but the plot picks up when a murder occurs in the king\u2019s camp. Shardlake can then do what he does best. He begins to investigate and finds some rather intriguing papers full of mystery and danger. Several attempts are made upon his own life in order to insure the secrets remain hidden. They smell of betrayal and dynastical forgery; they suggest that the current Tudor line is completely invalid due to Henry\u2019s maternal grandfather (Edward IV) being a bastard born of a low born archer rather than the offspring of Richard Duke of York. Such material is politically sensitive to say the least. Shardlake begins to regret even finding such papers. He wants nothing to do with such intrigue. And who can blame him? This is dirty stuff. He wants no more of the King\u2019s ire. But somehow he knows this is linked to the original murder. So the two separate cases begin to intertwine and overlap. He questions, question and questions some more to get his answers. And, as ever, the plot becomes rather intense. The mystery is made dense by so many political schemers and conniving courtiers out to serve their own interests. There are so many leads, so many trails to follow. The hard part is decided what is relevant and what is irrelevant hearsay. But this is no chap murder mystery. The plot is lavishly detailed and perfectly drawn out. This is the best Shardlake book so far, as Sansom balances historical intrigue with detail and excitement. This series just gets better and better. Matthew Shardlake Series 1. Dissolution- A suspense filled four stars. 2. Dark Fire- A dark 3.5 stars 3. <+++>Sovereign</+++>- A solid 4.5 stars ...more http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06bglnf Revisit is via R4 dramatisation: Atmospheric dramatisation of C. J. Sansom's third Tudor crime novel featuring hunchback lawyer detective Matthew Shardlake. Autumn, 1541. King Henry VIII has set out on a spectacular Royal Progress to York, aiming to strike fear and awe into his rebellious northern subjects. Shardlake, and his assistant Barak, arrive in the city a day ahead of the 3,000-strong procession. Officially there to prepare petitions for the King, t http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06bglnf Revisit is via R4 dramatisation: Atmospheric dramatisation of C. J. Sansom's third Tudor crime novel featuring hunchback lawyer detective Matthew Shardlake. Autumn, 1541. King Henry VIII has set out on a spectacular Royal Progress to York, aiming to strike fear and awe into his rebellious northern subjects. Shardlake, and his assistant Barak, arrive in the city a day ahead of the 3,000-strong procession. Officially there to prepare petitions for the King, they have also been tasked with a secret mission by Archbishop Cranmer: to ensure the welfare of one of the northern conspirators, Sir Edward Broderick, who is to be brought back to London for questioning in the Tower. 1/10: Tensions are running high in the city, and soon Shardlake is called to investigate a suspicious death - and stumbles upon a daring plot that has the potential to shake England to its core 2/10: After settling into their living quarters, Shardlake witnesses a man fall to a terrible death and, on hearing his last words, feels sure it was more than an unfortunate accident. 3/10: After meeting with fellow lawyer Wrenne, Shardlake and Barak decide to go back to Oldroyd's house and see if they can find something to confirm Shardlake's suspicion that there was more to the glazier's death than a terrible accident. 4/10: Autumn, 1541. King Henry VIII's spectacular Royal Progress is drawing closer to York. Shardlake and his assistant Barak have arrived in the city ahead of the 3,000-strong procession. Officially there to prepare petitions for the King, they have also been tasked with a secret mission by Archbishop Cranmer: to ensure the welfare of one of the conspirators, Sir Edward Broderick, who is to be brought back to London for questioning in the Tower. But they have become distracted from their duties by the mysterious death of a local glazier, Oldroyd, and Shardlake has been attacked by an unknown assailant who then stole papers from a box found hidden in Oldroyd's house. Bruised and smarting from tough questioning by Sir William Maleverer, Shardlake prepares to ride out to meet King Henry VIII. 5/10: Reeling from his public humiliation at the hands of King Henry, Shardlake returns to York knowing that it will haunt him for the rest of his life. His troubles aren't over, however, because an old enemy is waiting to see him: Sir Richard Rich. 6/10: Shardlake has been left badly shaken by the attempt upon his life. Fearing for his safety, he hopes to convince Sir William Maleverer that he should be sent back to London. 7/10: Shardlake, aided by his trusty assistant Barak, is determined to pursue his own investigations into Oldroyd's murder and the theft of the treasonous papers - as well as to discover who has been trying to kill him. Their inquiries lead them to a rough part of York, in search of information about Craike. 8/10: After the second attempt upon his life, Shardlake is convinced that the stolen papers - with their allegations against the King - hold the key to the whole mystery. 9/10: With the killer unmasked and his final duty - caring for the prisoner, Broderick - almost complete, Shardlake is glad to be heading returning south with the Progress. But when the ship docks in London, he receives a shocking summons. 10/10: Falsely accused of treason and unable to answer the gaoler's questions, Shardlake awaits his fate in the Tower of London. Can Barak convince Archbishop Cranmer that the allegations are false and save him from the torture chamber? I got to hiss, boo, and shake both fists at Dickie Rich all over again. Come on BBC - give us the whole book series as TV drama, you have the costumes from Mantel's epic. 11 Things you didn\u2019t know about King Henry VIII\u2019s Great Progress Shardlake:\tJustin Salinger Barak: Bryan Dick Maleverer:\tStephen Critchlow Radwinter:\tDavid Acton Broderick:\tNick Underwood Wrenne:\tGeoffrey Whitehead Craike:\tPatrick Brennan Rich:\tChris Pavlo Innkeeper:\tMark Edel-Hunt ...more This is the third Matthew Shardlake novel, following on from Dissolution and Dark Fire. Shardlake is now a much more established character, with Jack Barak as his foil and sidekick, and this is a much more assured novel (which, considering how excellent the first two books are is very impressive). It is 1541 and, after the fall of Cromwell, Shardlake has gone back to his law practice and has taken Barak on to work with him. They are not the only ones to remember Thomas Cromwell though \u2013 it is ru This is the third Matthew Shardlake novel, following on from Dissolution and Dark Fire. Shardlake is now a much more established character, with Jack Barak as his foil and sidekick, and this is a much more assured novel (which, considering how excellent the first two books are is very impressive). It is 1541 and, after the fall of Cromwell, Shardlake has gone back to his law practice and has taken Barak on to work with him. They are not the only ones to remember Thomas Cromwell though \u2013 it is rumoured that the King himself regrets losing such a loyal and competent servant. Shardlake had hoped his days of being involved in the Court are behind him, but he is asked by no less than Archbishop Cranmer, who had been told by Cromwell himself of his discretion, to escort a prisoner from York to London. Henry is making a Progress in the North. A conspirator, Sir Edward Broderick, is being sent from York to the Tower of London and Shardlake is told to ensure he arrives safely within the Tower walls. However, shortly after arriving in York, Shardlake hears a scream and finds a glazier has been killed. Before he dies, he tells Shardlake, \u201cno child of Henry and <---C>Catherine Howard</---C> can ever be true heir.\u201d Unwillingly, Shardlake is told to investigate by Maleverer; a crony of his old enemy Richard Rich. Soon, Shardlake is trapped in an unenviable situation \u2013 forced to deal with a conspiracy which strikes at the very heart of the succession to the throne, embroiled in treason and with his life in increasing danger, whilst also having to try to keep Broderick alive and well in order to face torture in London. The characters in this novel are a mix of real and fictional, but they are all so well cast, that it is impossible to say which is which. There is the sadistic jailer, Radwinter, Jennet Marlin, a member of the Queen\u2019s servants, young Tamasin Reedbourne, who catches Barak\u2019s eye, Lady Rochester \u2013 former wife of George Boleyn \u2013 the new young Queen Catherine, who is way out of her depth, the arrogant young men who surround her, including Culpepper and Dereham, and the elderly lawyer, Giles Wrenne, who befriends Shardlake. Indeed, Shardlake needs a friend in this book. With Barak busy being in love, under pressure from Maleverer and Rich, with several attempts on his life and humiliated by King Henry himself, this really makes you face the reality of the Tudor world. We are taken behind the pomp to the backstage of Court life, from the grandeur of the King to the vicious reality of power; even to the real fear and horror of torture in the dungeons beneath the Tower itself. A wonderful read in a brilliant series. ...more This is such a good series! Let me quote the comment from the Sunday Times on the cover of the book - \"So compulsive that,until you reach the final page, you'll have to be almost physically prised away from it.\" I so agree! I just wanted to curl up in a corner somewhere and read until I had finished all 653 pages of it without stopping. Of course life isn't like that and I did have to put it down but I rushed back to it as soon as I could every time. In this episode Thomas Cromwell has gone to h This is such a good series! Let me quote the comment from the Sunday Times on the cover of the book - \"So compulsive that,until you reach the final page, you'll have to be almost physically prised away from it.\" I so agree! I just wanted to curl up in a corner somewhere and read until I had finished all 653 pages of it without stopping. Of course life isn't like that and I did have to put it down but I rushed back to it as soon as I could every time. In this episode Thomas Cromwell has gone to his maker and Matthew now reports to Archbishop Cranmer. The author's descriptions of Tudor England seem so realistic and the hardships and brutality of life at that time ring very true. Beautifully written, an intriguing story and believable characters - what more could you want? An easy five stars. ...more 4.5 \u2605 s This should have been an out-and-out 5 star score from me, but I've deducted a half for the patchy editing. It is a shame that a best-selling writer of the calibre of C.J. Sansom does not get the 5 star treatment from his editorial team. Having said that, this is a thoroughly enjoyable mystery novel, suitably labyrinthine in its plot, as was so typical of the goings-on in the court of Henry VIII. One of the reasons I'm such a fan of the Matthew Shardlake series is the thoroughness of the re 4.5 \u2605 s This should have been an out-and-out 5 star score from me, but I've deducted a half for the patchy editing. It is a shame that a best-selling writer of the calibre of C.J. Sansom does not get the 5 star treatment from his editorial team. Having said that, this is a thoroughly enjoyable mystery novel, suitably labyrinthine in its plot, as was so typical of the goings-on in the court of Henry VIII. One of the reasons I'm such a fan of the Matthew Shardlake series is the thoroughness of the research done by the author, which enriches the story in ways that stimulate the intellect while satisfying the emotions. Googling Sansom, I found he has had scholarly articles published in professional journals regarding the King's Northern Progress, because so little research has been done on this topic by history academics. Always in his Afterwords, Sansom indicates his references and suggests further reading for those interested in the issues. I have to confess to being a dedicated Henry hater. It dismays me that recent history has lionised him as some sort of humanist Renaissance Man, and/or as a stud in the bedroom. Personally, I loathe not just him but the entire Tudor dynasty because they had so much blood on their hands. In my eyes, Henry is a cold-blooded killer, although he may never have wielded the murder weapon himself. There is an old saying \"Absolute power corrupts absolutely\", and that definitely applies to Henry VIII, Mary and Elizabeth I. All in the name of religion, but really to fulfil their own greedy ambitions and craving for supremacy. So it is with great glee I read the Shardlake books which show the real effects of Henry VIII's policies, schemes and whims on the court, parliament and general population of England in the 1530s and 1540s. Third in the series, Sovereign takes the closest look yet at Henry himself. And it is not a pretty picture. Following the fall and execution of his former mentor Thomas Cromwell, Shardlake is charged by Archbishop Cranmer to accompany the king's Northern Progress to York, to replace a lawyer who had died suddenly. Also he was given a private task, to escort a religious rebel, Sir Edward Broderick, safely back to London to face legal proceedings. Shortly after his arrival in York, accompanied by his loyal retainer, Jack Barak, Shardlake is embroiled in controversy and murder. There is an amazing, vivid description of the arrival of the Progress in York - heralds, horses, courtiers, officials, all richly dressed, and conducting themselves in a courtly manner as respect for the all-powerful monarch and his queen, Catherine Howard (number 5). On the approach to York town, Henry VIII encounters Shardlake and insults him in public for his deformity. Not long after that, Shardlake narrowly escapes being killed by a metal spike deliberately launched at him by an unknown person. This is not the only attempt on Shardlake's life during the course of the novel, and there are deaths, conspiracies and secrets aplenty for him to contend with, as the Progress stalls in York for many days. Several unpleasant characters emerge as the story unfolds, including the harsh gaoler, Radwinter, the scheming power-broker Sir William Maleverer, the fierce-tempered servant Jennet Marlin and the bitchy Lady-in-Waiting, Jane Rochford. They vex Shardlake and Barak, throwing all sorts of obstacles, both literal and figurative, in the path of their investigations. A key narrative thread throughout the novel is the dangerous information that the Tudor claim to the English throne is invalid, and that Henry VIII is the grandson of a bastard. Shardlake finds (then loses) some documents that relate to this proposition, and his safety is threatened several times as various scheming individuals try to get the information from him to satisfy their own aims. The resolution of this plot line at the end of the book was fascinating and gave me much food for thought. This is a long book, and its pages contain many twisting plot lines, to which the reader must pay attention. So it is not a quick, easy read, but rather a slow-burner, a book that takes its time to develop its themes and reveal its intrigues. The prose is easy and accessible, and the language is highly descriptive. As with earlier Shardlake books, Sansom has the ability to recreate the smells, sounds and sights of 16th century England with great credibility. In this instalment, much attention is paid to imprisonment and torture, which makes for uncomfortable reading on occasion. But by the same token, it is not a bad thing to be reminded of the brutality of the legal system as it existed in earlier centuries, and be grateful for what we have now. Above all, I came away from the book thinking about the low value placed on human life in that era, and the arbitrariness with which one's life could be terminated so abruptly. ...more SOVEREIGN (Historical-England-1541) \u2013 VG Sansom, C.J. \u2013 3rd in series Macmillan, 2006-Hardcover *** Lawyer Matthew Shardlake and his assistant Jack Barak are sent to York to ensure the welfare of a prisoner being returned to London for interrogation. Matthew is also to assist with processing legal partitions King Henry VIII during the King\u2019s Progress to York. When local glazier is killed, Matthew and Jack uncover a locked box containing several papers, including a genealogical chart. Before Matthew SOVEREIGN (Historical-England-1541) \u2013 VG Sansom, C.J. \u2013 3rd in series Macmillan, 2006-Hardcover *** Lawyer Matthew Shardlake and his assistant Jack Barak are sent to York to ensure the welfare of a prisoner being returned to London for interrogation. Matthew is also to assist with processing legal partitions King Henry VIII during the King\u2019s Progress to York. When local glazier is killed, Matthew and Jack uncover a locked box containing several papers, including a genealogical chart. Before Matthew has a chance to review all the papers, he is attacked and the box taken. Other attacks follow and Matthew must uncover who is behind them and what is the secret that could topple a King\u2019s throne. *** Sansom has a talent of writing both a very good, suspenseful mystery while involving the reader in the life and politics of the time. Rather than portraying a romantic view of historic England, Sansom conveys the harshness of living conditions, the brutality of the justice of the time and the unrest and uncertainty due to Henry\u2019s striving for an heir and causing the religious division of the time. Matthew is a wonderful character with a strong belief in doing what\u2019s right, he\u2019s nicely offset by Barak greater willingness to bend the rules. Matthew is also a very human character who can be stubborn, petty and jealous. Although the dialogue is a bit awkward at times as it is strictly neither period nor modern, only a couple times did I find that distracting. This is a series I read in order, but if you enjoy history brought to life, I highly recommend Sansom. ...more Tre\u0107a pri\u010da o grbavom odvjetniku iz Londona Matthewu Shardlakeu smje\u0161tena je u jesen 1541. Henrik VIII sa svojom svitom putuje na sjever Engleske kako bi ispitao mi\u0161ljenje stanovnika, biv\u0161ih pobunjenika protiv kraljeve vladavine. Matthew opet dobiva opasan zadatak - sa\u010duvati urotnika na \u017eivotu, po nalogu nadbiskupa Cranmera. Da je ostalo samo na tomu, bilo bi dosadno pa se Sansom pobrinuo da se prijestolje Tudora itekako po\u010dne klimati, zbog davne, dobro \u010duvane tajne, a Shardlake \u0107e opet nekoliko Tre\u0107a pri\u010da o grbavom odvjetniku iz Londona Matthewu Shardlakeu smje\u0161tena je u jesen 1541. Henrik VIII sa svojom svitom putuje na sjever Engleske kako bi ispitao mi\u0161ljenje stanovnika, biv\u0161ih pobunjenika protiv kraljeve vladavine. Matthew opet dobiva opasan zadatak - sa\u010duvati urotnika na \u017eivotu, po nalogu nadbiskupa Cranmera. Da je ostalo samo na tomu, bilo bi dosadno pa se Sansom pobrinuo da se prijestolje Tudora itekako po\u010dne klimati, zbog davne, dobro \u010duvane tajne, a Shardlake \u0107e opet nekoliko puta dobiti po glavi. Ali na to smo ve\u0107 navikli. Uglavnom, ova knjiga mi je dosad bila najbolja i, zbog same radnje, najnapetija. Sansomovim knjigama dajem stalno 5 zvjezdica pa ova nije iznimka, iako zaslu\u017euje i vi\u0161e. ...more This is the third Matthew Shardlake mystery by C.J. Sansom. I enjoyed it very much. It's nice to come back to a familiar character and catch up on his latest exploits. This time he and his assistant Jack Barak are sent to York in the north of England where King Henry VIII and his latest wife, Catherine Howard arrive on a spectacular progress. Matthew has been employed by Archbishop Cranmer to protect a prisoner accused of treason and conspiracy against the king and make sure that he arrives safe This is the third Matthew Shardlake mystery by C.J. Sansom. I enjoyed it very much. It's nice to come back to a familiar character and catch up on his latest exploits. This time he and his assistant Jack Barak are sent to York in the north of England where King Henry VIII and his latest wife, Catherine Howard arrive on a spectacular progress. Matthew has been employed by Archbishop Cranmer to protect a prisoner accused of treason and conspiracy against the king and make sure that he arrives safe and sound in London. Where upon his arrival he will be taken to London Tower and tortured. Shardlake's assignments always start off simply enough but tend to become rather complicated very quickly. This time is no exception and soon after his arrival in York there is a murder. Matthew is told to investigate and almost immediately afterward told the matter is not to concern him. I thought CJ Sansom did a wonderful job of weaving together many varied threads to make a full and satisfying story. The non-fiction as fascinating as the fiction. The details of the King and Queen's Progress was really astounding. They had 5,000 horses with 20,000 horseshoes. It was hard to imagine the volume of food required to feed all of the courtiers and servants and how that would have effected the local people. It brought to mind locust. I love how Matthew put it: 'I looked at the little houses along Petergate and thought again of the rule preventing citizens from casting sewage in the river while the Progress was here. It would be piling up in their backyards. It was symbolic of the King's visit: all glitter and show in front, a pile of turds behind. The relationship between fathers and sons and played prominently in this story. And I enjoyed the relationship Matthew developed with Giles Wrenne. I was aware of how conspicuous Matthew was with his physical deformity, he has a hunchback, and because of that he was unable to blend in and be inconspicuous or to disguise himself if he wished. I am looking forward to reading CJ Sansom's next Shardlake Mystery which is due out next month (May 2008). I really do hope that Matthew gets some love in his life in the next installment. And I'm glad to see the cover does not include Great Harry's big head. ...more Boy oh boy, C.J. Sansom has done it again. This is the third book I have read in this series and for me, it is the best one so far. A rich tapestry of history and character development that is hard to beat. In this instalment of Sansom's Matthew Shardlake series, Shardlake and Barak find themselves in York awaiting the Royal Progress of Henry VIII. Shardlake is ordered by Archbishop Cranmar to assist a senior York lawyer, Giles Wrenne, in organising and presenting petitions to the King on his arri Boy oh boy, C.J. Sansom has done it again. This is the third book I have read in this series and for me, it is the best one so far. A rich tapestry of history and character development that is hard to beat. In this instalment of Sansom's Matthew Shardlake series, Shardlake and Barak find themselves in York awaiting the Royal Progress of Henry VIII. Shardlake is ordered by Archbishop Cranmar to assist a senior York lawyer, Giles Wrenne, in organising and presenting petitions to the King on his arrival. Since this is a mystery series, you get what you paid the admission price for. Murder..or is it accidental death? I shall not tell. Aggravating antagonists. Miserable creatures. Miserable dungeons. And mystery abounding. The magic of this series for me is not the who done it and the chasing rabbits down holes, although that helps of course, no the magic of this series for me is the atmosphere. Nobody gives the world Tudor England like C.J. Sansom. Except maybe Hilary Mantel, but then I have not read her books and can only surmise. You feel the damp of the walls, smell the filth in the streets, wince at the leeches on your legs and shudder in the face of the torturers red hot narrow blade. You walk the cobblestones, fall in the mud and recoil at the rankness of King Henry's odorous and festering leg. Sansom exhibits a multifarious skill. Not only can he write well and build a believable world, he also knows how to incorporate his research into his books so that it does not feel like research. It is as if he was actually there and can unlock doors to take the reader there too. ...more This book is long and proceeds at a slow pace, but I rather enjoyed that. It was like taking a leisurely stroll through Tudor England. It may even have been a deliberate attempt to give the reader a feel for the slower pace of a time when it took days to travel from one town to the next, particularly if you were a member of the king's ponderous 3000-strong Progress. Sansom's characterizations are still very good and he delivers historical detail effortlessly. His action scenes are clumsy and unre This book is long and proceeds at a slow pace, but I rather enjoyed that. It was like taking a leisurely stroll through Tudor England. It may even have been a deliberate attempt to give the reader a feel for the slower pace of a time when it took days to travel from one town to the next, particularly if you were a member of the king's ponderous 3000-strong Progress. Sansom's characterizations are still very good and he delivers historical detail effortlessly. His action scenes are clumsy and unrealistic but there was nothing patently ridiculous, as there was in the previous book. There is a trite scene where the murderer volunteers a confession instead of instantly killing the victim, but if I let that bother me then I'll never enjoy another mystery novel. I'm not sure I liked the far-fetched ending, and his books are too star-studded for my taste. There's a plausible excuse for Shardlake to have dealings with Cranmer and to catch a glimpse of the king and queen. But for him to interact with Richard Rich, Lady Rochford, Catherine Howard, Thomas Culpepper and Francis Dereham is a little much. ...more Action packed and dramatic This is the third in the series of Matthew Shardlake adventures and, in my opinion, the best so far. As usual, the lawyer embarks on a dual, dangerous mission, and can trust nobody save, perhaps, his faithful assistant, Barak. At every turn there is murder, mystery and suspense. Shardlake appears to have many more lives that the nine that are generally accredited to a cat. It is amazing that he survives each day. Most of this story is set in York, and revolves around the Action packed and dramatic This is the third in the series of Matthew Shardlake adventures and, in my opinion, the best so far. As usual, the lawyer embarks on a dual, dangerous mission, and can trust nobody save, perhaps, his faithful assistant, Barak. At every turn there is murder, mystery and suspense. Shardlake appears to have many more lives that the nine that are generally accredited to a cat. It is amazing that he survives each day. Most of this story is set in York, and revolves around the disputed right, at least in the north of England, of Henry VIII to occupy the throne. Who are the conspirators and who are the loyalists? Tension is high, and personal safety is fragile. In those times, upsetting the wrong person, even if one were allied to that person, could lead to torture and loss of life. You can read the background to the story on the cover or in other reviews, so I won\u2019t bother to go into that. What I want to get across is, that although this book is long, it is action packed, and full of twists and turns, right up to the final page. There are some passages which will turn the strongest of stomachs. All in all, it is a great read. ...more C.J. Sansomin \"Itsevaltias\" (Otava, 2015) on j\u00e4rjestyksess\u00e4\u00e4n kolmas Matthew Shardlakesta kertova historiallinen dekkari, jossa kyttyr\u00e4selk\u00e4inen ja kyyninen asianajajamme joutuu pahemman kerran pulaan matkatessaan kuninkaallisen kiertueen mukana Pohjois-Englantiin. Salaliitot, hovijuonittelut ja toistuvat kuolemantapaukset saattavat Shardlaken ja h\u00e4nen yst\u00e4v\u00e4ns\u00e4 hengenvaaraan. Olen pit\u00e4nyt aiemmistakin Sansomin romaaneista, ja t\u00e4m\u00e4 saattoi olla niist\u00e4 paras, kaikessa l\u00e4hes seitsem\u00e4nsadan sivun ko C.J. Sansomin \"Itsevaltias\" (Otava, 2015) on j\u00e4rjestyksess\u00e4\u00e4n kolmas Matthew Shardlakesta kertova historiallinen dekkari, jossa kyttyr\u00e4selk\u00e4inen ja kyyninen asianajajamme joutuu pahemman kerran pulaan matkatessaan kuninkaallisen kiertueen mukana Pohjois-Englantiin. Salaliitot, hovijuonittelut ja toistuvat kuolemantapaukset saattavat Shardlaken ja h\u00e4nen yst\u00e4v\u00e4ns\u00e4 hengenvaaraan. Olen pit\u00e4nyt aiemmistakin Sansomin romaaneista, ja t\u00e4m\u00e4 saattoi olla niist\u00e4 paras, kaikessa l\u00e4hes seitsem\u00e4nsadan sivun komeudessaan. Henrik VIII ja muut historialliset hahmot sekoittuvat saumatta tarinaan. Sansomin ehdottomana vahvuutena on voinut pit\u00e4\u00e4 henkil\u00f6kuvausta, eik\u00e4 h\u00e4n pet\u00e4 t\u00e4ll\u00e4k\u00e4\u00e4n kertaa. Lis\u00e4ksi 1500-luvun Englantia kuvataan kiinnostavasti ja uskottavasti, ja erityisesti (view spoiler) [Lontoon Towerin kidutuskammoihin ja vankityrmiin sijoittuvat kohtaukset onnistuvat saamaan ihon kananlihalle. (hide spoiler) ] Suosittelen kaikille historiasta kiinnostuneille! ...more In Dissolution , reformist Matthew Shardlake works with Thomas Cromwell to investigate the death of a royal commissioner; in Dark Fire , he defends a young woman accused of murder. Critics agree that Sovereign is as good as, or even better than, its predecessors. Themes of political ruses, conspiracy, religious fanaticism, and murder, combined with sophisticated plotting, meticulously researched details, and convincing characters (including a cruel, paranoid Henry) recreate the repression, tyranny In Dissolution , reformist Matthew Shardlake works with Thomas Cromwell to investigate the death of a royal commissioner; in Dark Fire , he defends a young woman accused of murder. Critics agree that Sovereign is as good as, or even better than, its predecessors. Themes of political ruses, conspiracy, religious fanaticism, and murder, combined with sophisticated plotting, meticulously researched details, and convincing characters (including a cruel, paranoid Henry) recreate the repression, tyranny, and gory minutiae of Tudor England. (Soft romance is patently absent.) A few critics commented on the heft of the novel, but in the end they agreed that Sovereign is an outstanding work of historical fiction. This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine . ...more Za sve ljubitelje povijesnih krimi\u0107a velika preporuka ove debeljuce... Puna zanimljivih podataka iz tog povijesnog doba, odli\u010dni opisi okoline, likova, te s velikom dozom nepredvidljivih doga\u0111aja do samog kraja... Vjerujte isplati se \u010ditati i te\u0161ko ju je ispustiti iz ruku, mada nije ba\u0161 lagana za dr\u017eanje ;) Ocjena 5! I need more stars! How did it take me this long to discover CJ Sansom? I'm not sure, but I am grateful for this book showing up in a local used book store and catching my eye. A group read of Dissolution got me started on this series, and the rest, as they say, is history. Oh, the history! No other writer will immerse you in Tudor England the way CJ Sansom does. The man is a genius, causing the reader to see, smell, and hear the 16th century as effectively as a time machine. The little details th I need more stars! How did it take me this long to discover CJ Sansom? I'm not sure, but I am grateful for this book showing up in a local used book store and catching my eye. A group read of Dissolution got me started on this series, and the rest, as they say, is history. Oh, the history! No other writer will immerse you in Tudor England the way CJ Sansom does. The man is a genius, causing the reader to see, smell, and hear the 16th century as effectively as a time machine. The little details that he sneaks in - like a row of quickly dug latrines near the site of the King's progress - help the reader truly understand life at that time without becoming overwhelmed with minutia. In this installment, our beloved hunchback lawyer, Matthew Shardlake travels to York, where murder and mystery follow him like a 16th century Angela Lansbury. The plot cleverly ties back to events during the Wars of the Roses, which made this novel even more enjoyable for me than the first two. Sansom creates a unique theory regarding brothers, Edward IV and Richard III. The character of Matthew Shardlake is so skillfully developed that I have to remind myself that he is a fictional character. With his placement as legal council just lowly enough that the reader gets a view of common people and just high enough that he is called upon by Archbishop Cranmer, Shardlake finds himself swept up in intrigue between northern rebels and the tyrannical Henry VIII. I adore the minor details of Matthew's character that make the reader love him. He is clever, morally upright (even at great cost), and highly principled. He is also at times insecure and lonely. How I wanted to personally reach out and protect him from those who would mock or hurt him! But, for that he has the faithful Jack Barak. My heart wanted to break for him when Matthew struggles with Barak becoming friendly with a young lady. \"I realized that I was jealous, not of Barak for having a pretty girl chase him, but of her for taking the attention of one of the few real friends I had.\" Or when he reveals his insecurity by asking Jack, \"How do I look,\" before he goes before the King. Oh, and the encounter with the King.....I won't give it away. I will give one warning: do not pick this up if you have anything vitally important going on because you will not be able to put it down. ...more 'Sovereign' is the third instalment of Sansom's Shardlake series - historical fiction set during the reign of Henry VIII which tells the story of the lawyer Matthew Shardlake, and the various shenanigans that he encounters. I have to say, I'm really not that enamoured with this series. They're clearly well researched, and Sansom writes competently enough, but I just don't find them that engaging. Historical fiction isn't a genre that I've ever really been that interested in, and I only started t 'Sovereign' is the third instalment of Sansom's Shardlake series - historical fiction set during the reign of Henry VIII which tells the story of the lawyer Matthew Shardlake, and the various shenanigans that he encounters. I have to say, I'm really not that enamoured with this series. They're clearly well researched, and Sansom writes competently enough, but I just don't find them that engaging. Historical fiction isn't a genre that I've ever really been that interested in, and I only started this series because they came recommended by a few different people. I think my main problem is with the pacing. The novels are written in the style of a 'whodunnit' thriller, set against an accurate (I assume, my historical knowledge is barely existent) historical background. But I reckon on average an actual plot point happens every 4 chapters or so. In between there's just a lot of dallying around and historical exposition in the form of Shardlake's inner monologue. For me, any kind of thriller style novel HAS to be faster paced than that. Essentially, I just got bored a lot of the time. Another one of my hang ups is Shardlake's character. I just don't like him that much. Perhaps, given his generally harsh and dismissive nature towards others in the initial books in the series, the appeal lies in seeing a gradual softening of his demeanour due to his developing relationships with other characters. But I just find him annoying. And though I'm sure that Sansom researched the likely curses used at the time of setting, I am so sick of reading exclamations of \"God's teeth!\", \"God's wounds!\", \"God's toenails!\" (okay... I made that last one up). Literally EVERY curse or exclamation is a variation on this format, and it just gets bloody tedious after a while. I'm sure people used other curses than just reference to God's various body parts. Unfortunately I purchased most of the novels in this series before reading the first one, so thanks to my overwhelming neuroticism regarding the reading of every book on my bookshelf, I'll probably read the next 2 in the series, albeit reluctantly. I think someone who enjoys historical fiction and who will have more interest in the setting would enjoy these far more than I have, so if that's you, then give them a go. ...more I can't say I've ever liked Henry VIII. This novel did nothing to recommend him to me. The whole of the Shardlake series is tainted by the terror of living in Henry's England, but in this one he is a central figure, and his poisonous evil is as monstrous as his girth. Set during Henry's progress to York to stamp his authority on the north of England after the disastrous uprising against him, Matthew is given a secret commission by Crammer, the man who replaced Cromwell. There is a prisoner being I can't say I've ever liked Henry VIII. This novel did nothing to recommend him to me. The whole of the Shardlake series is tainted by the terror of living in Henry's England, but in this one he is a central figure, and his poisonous evil is as monstrous as his girth. Set during Henry's progress to York to stamp his authority on the north of England after the disastrous uprising against him, Matthew is given a secret commission by Crammer, the man who replaced Cromwell. There is a prisoner being held in York who needs to be questioned, but so secret and so dangerous is the knowledge he's believed to have that his questioning has to be done by experts sworn to secrecy--in other words, he needs to be taken to London to the tower to be tortured. Matthew is told to keep him alive and well--well enough to face this terrible ordeal. Matthew started out in this series a slightly cold-hearted, dedicated reformer. He was one of Cromwell's men. Gradually, as the reality of the reform movement hits him he loses his faith, his zeal. Matthew comes to realise that a commonwealth of Englishmen free to follow the dictates of their hearts, not that of the vicar of Rome, will never exist. It's a figment of the imagination and all that is left is the greedy grubbing around for power and influence which existed under the old order. This dissolution of Matthew's faith is wonderfully shown in this third in the series not only in the dialogue and through the plot, but in the wonderful imagery of the beautiful stained glass being smashed, the statutes torn down, the shrines, which gave people such comfort, destroyed. Churches broken apart and used to stable the horses, monks thrown out to starve, people living in constant upheaval and fear. And at the centre of this maw of horror is Henry--fat, ulcerated, piggy-eyed and lecherous. I was rooting for the poor conspirators in this one, and I think Matthew was too. ...more This is the third in an addicting series of mysteries featuring the Tudor era lawyer Matthew Shardlake and his sidekick Jack Barak. Previously the two have worked with Thomas Cromwell (Dissolution and Dark Fire) but by now Cromwell has met his fate and Matthew and Barak find themselves in the midst of unraveling a plot to challenge Henry VIII\u2019s legitimacy as King of England. For anyone who is intrigued with 16th century England this book brings much of it to life. Ransom is adept at historical d This is the third in an addicting series of mysteries featuring the Tudor era lawyer Matthew Shardlake and his sidekick Jack Barak. Previously the two have worked with Thomas Cromwell (Dissolution and Dark Fire) but by now Cromwell has met his fate and Matthew and Barak find themselves in the midst of unraveling a plot to challenge Henry VIII\u2019s legitimacy as King of England. For anyone who is intrigued with 16th century England this book brings much of it to life. Ransom is adept at historical detail and it was fascinating to read about the King\u2019s great \u201cPilgrimage of Grace\u201d to quell the rebellion that had started in the North. It was also a lot of fun meeting many of the people I\u2019ve read about in other historical novels \u2013 not only Henry and his 5th wife Katherine Howard, but others as well, including Lady Rochford, Richard Rich, Thomas Culpepper and Francis Dereham. In addition to his skill in making the period come alive (like the details about what was involved in feeding and transporting the King\u2019s Court as it plodded along on horseback from London to York) Ransom is full of historical information about Henry VIII. Much of the plot in this book revolves around the contents of a mysterious box containing papers with evidence that Henry VIII was illegitimate and therefore not the rightful heir to the throne when the previous king died. Sansom always includes historical notes at the end of his books and so I was amazed to discover that he had not invented the \u201cBlaybourne story.\u201d It\u2019s a 16th century conspiracy theory and as is true of all conspiracy theories there have always been people who believe it could be true. I usually avoid reading books that come out in a series (believing that they prevent me from getting to all the other books on my list) but Matthew Shardlake, like Lord Peter Wimsey, is a notable exception to that rule. I\u2019m anxious to join him again for his next adventure in Tudor England. ...more This is the third Shardlake book, the lawyer with a hunchback who has a knack for solving the most difficult of crimes and puzzles. Archbishop Cranmer asks Shardlake to be responsible for the welfare of a conspirator called Broderick and to escort him from York to London. also approaching York at the time is Henry VIII on his progress, a tour of the rebellious North to seek new oaths from the people there and to show force to limit any armed uprisings too. Shortly after he arrives a glazier dies This is the third Shardlake book, the lawyer with a hunchback who has a knack for solving the most difficult of crimes and puzzles. Archbishop Cranmer asks Shardlake to be responsible for the welfare of a conspirator called Broderick and to escort him from York to London. also approaching York at the time is Henry VIII on his progress, a tour of the rebellious North to seek new oaths from the people there and to show force to limit any armed uprisings too. Shortly after he arrives a glazier dies after falling from a ladder. It is suspected murder, but nothing is proven, suspicious though it is. He is asked to report to Sir William Maleverer whilst in York, and the suspicions increase with every event. On investigation they discover a box of documents that imply that Henry does not have a valid claim on the throne, but these are stolen before them can be passed to the privy council. Shardlake is asked to petition the king, the ritual of handing over requests for judgement by the king, and is humiliated by him. Shardlake's life is threatened several times, by persons unknown, and the prisoner in his care has attempts made on his life too. The northern people do not trust Henry VIII, and as Shardlake uncovers a plot to dispose the king, he is subject to lots of scrutiny by the privy council, via Maleverer. He is threatened by his old adversary Sir Richard Rich, with whom he he has an outstanding case to resolve when he returns to London. All of this builds to a thrilling ending, with twists and turns right to the last few pages. This is a classic Shardlake mystery. There are layers of suspicion and intrigue with several sub plots taking place. There are puzzles, and ongoing conflict that you know are going to be carried over to the next book. Sansom has ramped up the danger that Shardlake is in too, and the suspense in the book is palpable at times. Great historical fiction, tied in with a likeable main character makes for a great read. ...more I have gotten to page 150 and I'm not going to finish this book. I generally do not review books I don't finish, but I got deep enough into this one that I want to explain why I didn't finish it. I loved the first two books in the series. In this one, Matthew has been dragged into a situation he doesn't want to be in, AGAIN. OK, that is what it is. But he keeps making his situation worse by doing the most stupid, and dangerous, things. He tells the authorities what the dying man said, although he I have gotten to page 150 and I'm not going to finish this book. I generally do not review books I don't finish, but I got deep enough into this one that I want to explain why I didn't finish it. I loved the first two books in the series. In this one, Matthew has been dragged into a situation he doesn't want to be in, AGAIN. OK, that is what it is. But he keeps making his situation worse by doing the most stupid, and dangerous, things. He tells the authorities what the dying man said, although he doesn't understand what he said. But the authorities do. He goes and searches the dead man's house, after the authorities have tossed it, without taking them with him. He opens the box he finds when he is alone, starts reading the papers inside, and the contents are stolen from him. And all of this in a situation where doing any of those things can get him, and his assistant killed. I might read the non-series book the author has recently had published, but I've had enough of Matthew Shardlake. ...more Sovereign is as good a read as the previous books, entwining its mysteries with the history of the period. Some of it is obviously invented, but still, it invokes the Tudor period and the Reformation pretty strongly and with attention to detail. It's slow to unfold -- and this one definitely suckers you in with a slow build of emotion, i.e. the bond between Shardlake and Wrenne. You've got your standard collection of corrupt and incompetent officials, with a bit of torture to spice the dish. A ne Sovereign is as good a read as the previous books, entwining its mysteries with the history of the period. Some of it is obviously invented, but still, it invokes the Tudor period and the Reformation pretty strongly and with attention to detail. It's slow to unfold -- and this one definitely suckers you in with a slow build of emotion, i.e. the bond between Shardlake and Wrenne. You've got your standard collection of corrupt and incompetent officials, with a bit of torture to spice the dish. A new female character enters the picture, with a bit of romance (not for Shardlake, but for Barak, which is a little sad in one sense). In a way, it's of a piece with the first two books: the style and format haven't changed. If you enjoyed the previous two books, then you'd probably enjoy this; if you found them too slow, too unbelievable in the way Barak and Shardlake mix with high society, in the way that a lawyer like Shardlake can become so entangled in politics and scheming... well, then you'd be best advised to cut your losses, because it doesn't change in that sense. ...more I really liked this book, much to my relief, since I didn't like the second book in the series as well as the first, and was worried that the series was on a downhill slide. This book had superb imagery, historical detail, and an intriguing mystery all rolled into one. All I have to say is that I'm thankful I live in a time where there is indoor plumbing!! And where there's science to prove crimes...instead of than the rather tortuous (ha! it's a pun!) deductions that Master Matthew Shardlake an I really liked this book, much to my relief, since I didn't like the second book in the series as well as the first, and was worried that the series was on a downhill slide. This book had superb imagery, historical detail, and an intriguing mystery all rolled into one. All I have to say is that I'm thankful I live in a time where there is indoor plumbing!! And where there's science to prove crimes...instead of than the rather tortuous (ha! it's a pun!) deductions that Master Matthew Shardlake and Jack Barak have to go through. And I think I'm going to have to read up on the Wars of the Roses and the Tudors again. There was so much history in this book that I didn't remember, it really made me want to delve into some serious history reading. ...more If you like historical mysteries... If you like Royal intrigue... If you like conspiracies... If you like books that set the scene... If you like your fiction with a grain of truth... If you have a school girl crush on a \" crookback\" ( ok this is optional) then this is the book for you. Though this is the third book in C.J. Sansom 's masterful Matthew Shardlake series I believe this book could stand alone. I picked this up at a booksale, not realizing it was the third book in a series. I read it anyway, and enjoyed it. The story was about a lawyer (Matthew Shardlake) in the time of Henry VIII (circa Katherine Howard) but was also about Richard III and the legitimacy of Henry through that bloodline. (And that storyline is based on a true story, apparently there is some debate as to whether Elizabeth is the true monarch or not. (Alternative family tree here, for those who like that sort of thing.) I' I picked this up at a booksale, not realizing it was the third book in a series. I read it anyway, and enjoyed it. The story was about a lawyer (Matthew Shardlake) in the time of Henry VIII (circa Katherine Howard) but was also about Richard III and the legitimacy of Henry through that bloodline. (And that storyline is based on a true story, apparently there is some debate as to whether Elizabeth is the true monarch or not. (Alternative family tree here, for those who like that sort of thing.) I'd read the first two books in the series, it was fairly enjoyable. ...more This is the third Matthew Shardlake novel I have read, and I wish I had read them all in sequence, not only that, I got a lot of pleasure in reading the last two books together, one after the other. They do come together like one huge novel, and they are much easier to read once you are familiar with the basic characters. The story lines, and the Tudor history played out in the books is chronological. You can duck and dive, but far better to start with the first book and work your way through th This is the third Matthew Shardlake novel I have read, and I wish I had read them all in sequence, not only that, I got a lot of pleasure in reading the last two books together, one after the other. They do come together like one huge novel, and they are much easier to read once you are familiar with the basic characters. The story lines, and the Tudor history played out in the books is chronological. You can duck and dive, but far better to start with the first book and work your way through them. This book is about Henry VIII's \"Great Progress\" up to the north of England, his efforts to impress the people there with his power and magnificence, and to reinforce their subsurvience and commitment to him as the head of the Church of England. After recent uprisings against him, he now wants to show the Northerners who's boss. Matthew Shardlake - our lawyer hero - is commissioned to undertake some legal duties up there as part of the king's party, plus he is asked to look after a political prisoner based in York, and bring him down to London so that expert torturers can extract information from him. The plight of this poor man, and the horrors that await him in London, hang over the whole book. This is not the only hint of cruelty - cruelty to men and cruelty to animals are themes throughout the book, and there were passages I skipped because I just couldn't face them. Tudor England was often a brutal place, on so many different levels. On a happier note - the book is ripe with fantastic plots and intrigues, which of course Shardlake sorts out with his usual brilliance over the course of the book. It is these which keep you turning the pages, leaving your lunch, turning off your bed light far too late. Not only are his plots utterly gripping, but his charactization is brilliant too. Added to which I LIKE a lot of people in his books....and it adds greatly to my enjoyment of a novel if I can like and admire some of the characters. I thought this book was fantastic. ...more So close to four stars! But there was one thing throughout the book that drove me absolutely bonkers, forcing me to knock half a star off and give this book 3.5 stars. Sansom has so much talent but he really needs to fire his editing team. When it comes to grammatical errors in books, I'm not usually too picky. When the mistakes are slap-you-in-the-face-distract-you-from-reading obvious (Ha! How annoying was that?), I have to point it out. There were random and misplaced quotations marks all ove So close to four stars! But there was one thing throughout the book that drove me absolutely bonkers, forcing me to knock half a star off and give this book 3.5 stars. Sansom has so much talent but he really needs to fire his editing team. When it comes to grammatical errors in books, I'm not usually too picky. When the mistakes are slap-you-in-the-face-distract-you-from-reading obvious (Ha! How annoying was that?), I have to point it out. There were random and misplaced quotations marks all over this book. This is the second time I have had to write this review. I thought I had saved a review earlier but it turns out I didn't. My copy of this book has been returned to the library which means any examples of random quotations marks are also at the library. I promise they're there. I'm not crazy. At least, not by professional standards. What I have found myself enjoying most about Sansom's Shardlake novels is the political picture he paints. With each wife Henry VIII has, the political landscape in England changes. Don't tell Henry that. There's no way he will believe a woman can have that kind of influence over a king. Sansom does an excellent job addressing the various political shifts in England by weaving them into his story. Religion is more often than not at the forefront of the political landscape in Tudor England. Sansom does a fantastic job creating mysteries out of the ever changing religious policies and/or practices. Quite possibly my favorite part of the book had little do with the overall plot. (view spoiler) [ Barak found himself a woman! I would like for Shardlake to find a woman too but I will settle for Barak at this point. I love that she's pregnant. I want so much for someone to have little kids who run every where yelling \"Uncle Matthew!\" (hide spoiler) ] ...more This is the third of six books in Sansom\u2019s Matthew Shardlake series, set in England during the reign of Henry VIII. Shardlake is a lawyer who was initially a follower of Thomas Cromwell until the latter\u2019s fall from grace. Since then the lawyer has lost all enthusiasm for national politics and has tried simply to pursue his own private practice. But events prevent that, and he is drawn back into the plots and machinations of superiors who are intent on furthering their own ambitions in the contex This is the third of six books in Sansom\u2019s Matthew Shardlake series, set in England during the reign of Henry VIII. Shardlake is a lawyer who was initially a follower of Thomas Cromwell until the latter\u2019s fall from grace. Since then the lawyer has lost all enthusiasm for national politics and has tried simply to pursue his own private practice. But events prevent that, and he is drawn back into the plots and machinations of superiors who are intent on furthering their own ambitions in the context of Henry\u2019s own tumultuous reign. The particular time period in which the present events occur is during the short time when Catherine Howard is Queen and when Henry and the Court embark on a Progress north into York in response to challenges there to the King\u2019s rule. I enjoyed this book. Sansom\u2019s writing itself is not especially stunning or even notable, but it is solid and produces no complaints on the part of this reader. However, the author\u2019s fidelity to real historical events is refreshing, and his ability to convey the ambiance of the period and the rival factions involved in Court politics is impressive. I was particularly interested in Sansom\u2019s presentation of aspects of the law of the time, Sansom himself being a retired attorney. Not an author to delve deeply into the individual psychology of his characters, Sansom nevertheless does provide a host of characters with differing temperaments and agendas, and he uses them effectively to convey the richness and complexity of social and political life during the 16th century in England. His plot moves quickly and interestingly, and the book\u2019s ending is convincing without having been too heavily foreshadowed. I have enjoyed this series of novels thus far and plan to continue to the next volume. ...more Having finished and thoroughly enjoying the first of this series I went to my 'to-read-shelf' and picked this up, thought let's stick with Shardlake and see what he get's up to next. Think I have four books in the series on my shelf that I'm now looking forward to reading. But without realising, I hadn't got the 2nd in the series, so have ended up skipping that, to this one...the third instalment. Hope that doesn't take anything away from the story etc. And once again the author has done a fantas Having finished and thoroughly enjoying the first of this series I went to my 'to-read-shelf' and picked this up, thought let's stick with Shardlake and see what he get's up to next. Think I have four books in the series on my shelf that I'm now looking forward to reading. But without realising, I hadn't got the 2nd in the series, so have ended up skipping that, to this one...the third instalment. Hope that doesn't take anything away from the story etc. And once again the author has done a fantastic job in recreating early Tudor England for us readers, and introducing us to some interesting new characters along the way, like Shardlakes new right hand man Barak. However I did slowly plough through this book with less interest than I did the first book. I don't think the plot ever gripped me, and with this being 600+ pages this was a real slog. The pace seemed slower, and things took an age to get going. Felt like I was trudging through the cold, wet Yorkshire mud along with the characters trying to get through the book. So I sadly finished the book a little disappointed, do still class this as a good read and will return to the future up and coming adventures of Mr Shardlake, who I still do find an interesting character, but maybe with less enthusiasm than I did when I started this one. ...more This book follows on from 'Dissolution' and the hunchback lawyer, Mathew Shardlake is trying to live down the fact that he was one of Thomas Cromwell's Commissioners now that the greatest stateman in the country has been executed. King Henry and his Queen of one year, Katherine Howard, are off to the North on a Royal tour, where a dangerous anti-reformist has been captured and imprisoned. Thomas Cranmer has sympathy for the lawyer and sends him off to York to secure the well-being of the prisoner, This book follows on from 'Dissolution' and the hunchback lawyer, Mathew Shardlake is trying to live down the fact that he was one of Thomas Cromwell's Commissioners now that the greatest stateman in the country has been executed. King Henry and his Queen of one year, Katherine Howard, are off to the North on a Royal tour, where a dangerous anti-reformist has been captured and imprisoned. Thomas Cranmer has sympathy for the lawyer and sends him off to York to secure the well-being of the prisoner, who is to be brought to London for questioning as he is believed to be part of a conspiracy to oust the King. It doesn't take long before the bodies start piling up and Shardlake himself becomes a target for the conspirators who claim to have evidence that King henry Tudor is not the rightful king at all. Again, this is a long book and the detail of the 'camp' set up in central York amongst beautiful church buildings which have been partly destroyed is poignant. It brings home what a terrible time it must have been for everyone, not just the anti-reformist Catholics. So many people earned their living through the church, when it is suddenly taken away it creates hardship for whole communities. One interesting details: The Yorkists called the Londoners, 'Southrons', and would overcharge them and make fun of them, pretending not to understand what they said. No change there then! ...more", "Title": "Sovereign"},
