{"Comments": "It'll happen one day, you'll see. <---A>William Gibson</---A> WILL right an ending that resembles something other then a last ditch attempt from a man desperate not to default on his contract. It will not stink of a man who has just watched the sunrise with a headful of Jack Daniels. No it will be thematically fufilling, and tie up and enrich the man threads that have wound through the novel like a tapestry. Giving these rich themes, imagery, and characters the proper glory rather then merely tarnishing ever It'll happen one day, you'll see. William Gibson WILL right an ending that resembles something other then a last ditch attempt from a man desperate not to default on his contract. It will not stink of a man who has just watched the sunrise with a headful of Jack Daniels. No it will be thematically fufilling, and tie up and enrich the man threads that have wound through the novel like a tapestry. Giving these rich themes, imagery, and characters the proper glory rather then merely tarnishing everthin. It'll happen one day I'm telling you.<---F> Sigh, but not this time</---F>. ...more Stylish. That\u2019s what I am as I read <+++>Pattern Recognition</+++> by William Gibson. It is a very stylish novel. Cool jazz plays in the cool and stylish caf\u00e9 as I sit outside drinking a latte. From my perfectly coiffed hair to the form fitting jacket and slim pants to the stylish Italian shoes on my stylish feet, I am cool. A Daniel Craig pout forms on my lips as I nod to the Most Interesting Man in the World sitting across from me. He is sipping a Dos Equis and chatting with two models sitting on either s Stylish. That\u2019s what I am as I read <+++>Pattern Recognition</+++> by William Gibson. It is a very stylish novel. Cool jazz plays in the cool and stylish caf\u00e9 as I sit outside drinking a latte. From my perfectly coiffed hair to the form fitting jacket and slim pants to the stylish Italian shoes on my stylish feet, I am cool. A Daniel Craig pout forms on my lips as I nod to the Most Interesting Man in the World sitting across from me. He is sipping a Dos Equis and chatting with two models sitting on either side of him. All of us, we are all stylish and cool. I turn page after stylish page but slowly my IMDB handsome brow creases, I frown. \u201cWhat \u2013 \u201c The Most Interesting Man in the World\u2019s gut sags. \u201c in the\u2013\u201c The models sprout tattoos and one belches. \u201c hell \u2013 \u201c My pants legs flare out and my perfectly coiffed doo melts to middle aged scalp. \u201c am I reading??\u201d What are we doing? Where is this going? What in the hell is this book about? William, I am a Southern United States middle-aged guy. If I stand up straight, I might not drag my knuckles across the floor when I walk. I need swords,<---M> laser blasters</---M>, and automatic gunfire or my attention wanes. Hell, man, you\u2019re from South Carolina and lived in Virginia, you\u2019ve seen me in the line at Piggly Wiggly \u2013 you had a bag of almonds and mineral water and I had a 12 pack of PBR and potato chips. You gotta make it easy for me!! But actually, I did like it, liked it a lot. Gibson\u2019s writing is fresh and vibrant and as cool as the other side of the pillow. Fans of his archetypal Neuromancer will pick up what he\u2019s throwing down in this post-Cold War, post-911, corporate espionage, jet setting thriller set in London, New York, Tokyo and Russia. To readers who are swimming in the same atavistic gene pool as I am \u2013 just give it some time, he\u2019ll get there and when he does, this will be revealed as tightly woven, extraordinarily entertaining post-cyberpunk literature of the highest order. BTW, the way to read William Gibson (<---B>or Neal Stephenson or China Mieville</---B>) is with an E-book reader so that you can easily select a word for dictionary and thesaurus explanation. Vocabulary expanding. ...more I loved Pattern Recognition nearly as much as Neuromancer and felt the two novels had a lot of similarities. Even though it is classified as general fiction, the novel has a strong SF feel to it. The highly technological societies (New York and the \"mirror world\" of London) where things are similar but a little different and the efficient, individualistic, widely traveled and rootless characters make Pattern Recognition feel dark and surreal and more like SF. Boone Chu was an interesting characte I loved Pattern Recognition nearly as much as Neuromancer and felt the two novels had a lot of similarities. Even though it is classified as general fiction, the novel has a strong SF feel to it. The highly technological societies (New York and the \"mirror world\" of London) where things are similar but a little different and the efficient, individualistic, widely traveled and rootless characters make Pattern Recognition feel dark and surreal and more like SF. Boone Chu was an interesting character and I was disappointed he was not developed further; same with Bigend. These are very minor flaws that don't take away from this excellent book. The story is an interesting look at the culture of marketing. (view spoiler) [Did Cayce's recovery at the end suggest that the current stress on marketing brand names and symbols is not so bad, or did she just surrender to the inevitable, that brand names and marketing are here to stay? For someone supposedly allergic to brands, Cayce was certainly attached to her Rickson's jacket. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I am an excellent reader, as I know many of my friends on goodreads are, but I don\u2019t think there\u2019s enough appreciation of reading as a skill in our world. We take it for granted, those of us who are \u201cliterate,\u201d and because it is the base of the things that we learn, we tend to ignore those who excel. Of course, many of those who read well are told they \u201canalyze things too much\u201d or that they \u201cdig too deep\u201d by those who might be solid readers, but probably don\u2019t have serious reading chops. I think I am an excellent reader, as I know many of my friends on goodreads are, but I don\u2019t think there\u2019s enough appreciation of reading as a skill in our world. We take it for granted, those of us who are \u201cliterate,\u201d and because it is the base of the things that we learn, we tend to ignore those who excel. Of course, many of those who read well are told they \u201canalyze things too much\u201d or that they \u201cdig too deep\u201d by those who might be solid readers, but probably don\u2019t have serious reading chops. I think of it this way: the critics of analysis are the Sunday co-ed softball players who enjoy the game, like to escape for a few hours of exercise and fun, and like to hit the occasional home run or catch a tricky pop fly. And there\u2019s nothing wrong with that. But for all the thousands of recreational ball players, there are a handful of professional ball players, whose skills are ever so much better (and whose skills stretch from Single A to the Big Leagues). They are the ones who get more from a hit, or a perfectly executed throw; they\u2019re the ones who will stretch a double into a triple; they\u2019re the ones who will take a fastball in the back rather than bail out of the box. And as readers go, they\u2019re the ones who make the connections, who read the patterns that most people don't. They're the ones who analyze too much. My reading of Pattern Recognition puts me in the category of the pro ball players. I loved the book on its own merits, and I know that I was able to read the merits in a way that others won\u2019t be able to access. Many will, of course, and they will love what they've found, but there's plenty there for those who won't. And there is certainly nothing wrong with whatever reading those recreational players come up with. Why do I feel this way? How can I say these things? Because I didn\u2019t just read this book, I created it as I turned every page. I was part of the process; I wasn\u2019t just reading someone else\u2019s finished process; I was the final important element of the patterns William Gibson was laying out for connection. The book needed me, and those like me, to be complete. Every time this book is read by a talented reader, it is being written. So there\u2019s no point in really talking about the book's particulars. I\u2019m not going to summarize the plot or point out specific moments of prose brilliance. I am not going to discuss the connections in the book. I am not going to talk about how personal this was to read. Just read it yourself. Make your own connections. Become part of the process of Pattern Recognition and let yourself analyze it, let yourself dig deep. And if you can\u2019t do those things, you should still read it because I\u2019m guessing it\u2019s good enough for every level of play. ...more I love the way that William Gibson writes women. Gibson usually has both male and female protagonists in his books, who may or may not even see one another during the course of the story (the almost-but-never-quite is something he comes back to again and again). Regardless, his female characters are always as strong and capable as the men (and often more so). Cayce Pollard is a wonderful character, and I think that Gibson deftly avoided all the usual pitfalls of men writing female characters. Fo I love the way that William Gibson writes women. Gibson usually has both male and female protagonists in his books, who may or may not even see one another during the course of the story (the almost-but-never-quite is something he comes back to again and again). Regardless, his female characters are always as strong and capable as the men (and often more so). Cayce Pollard is a wonderful character, and I think that Gibson deftly avoided all the usual pitfalls of men writing female characters. For instance, in this book there is no male character of even approximately equal importance to Cayce. And I like that. She seeks help from time to time, but ultimately, Cayce stands on her own. The book is nota love story. Well, not in anything like the traditional sense. The plot of the book revolves around Cayce's attempts to track down the origin of mysterious video clips that have surfaced on the internet. The disjointed, nonsequential footage is almost always of a couple, walking, talking, kissing. No one knows who the couple is, where the footage is being shot, when it was shot, what sequence the clips are supposed to be viewed in, etc. The first clip footage was simply discovered uploaded to a video site several years before, and an underground following has tracked down and collected all of the subsequently released clips. Fans make their own compilations, putting the videos in the order they think they go. Cayce is a member of one of these online fandoms, but her day job is as a consultant to advertising firms: she is able to 'know' somehow whether certain advertising approaches will be successful, which happens because the ones that are successful are able to tap into culture in a particular way that Cayce is aware of and sensitive to. One of these firms becomes interested in tracking down the origin of the footage as a way of discovering just how it is that something can become an underground sensation, and puts Cayce on the job. I can't really say any more without ruining the story. But there are Gibson's usual array of fascinating secondary characters who manage to seem both completely human and completely unique. And there are strong existential themes throughout: what is it that comes of always experiencing emotion and touch at one remove (through the camera)? What is the ultimate effect on the photographer, and what is the effect on the audience? This book is an anthem of both unity and alienation. ...more This was my first William Gibson book, and I thought it was beautifully written, quite a literary novel. I liked the characters, and I liked the idea of Cayce being sensitive to trends and brands, and having a logo \"allergy\". I'm now contemplating scratching the logos off of everything I own. Plot-wise, this isn't the most exciting book I've ever read. I was never bored, but the pacing was sedate, to say the least. The tone of the book was cool and deliberate - even the single fight scene followe This was my first William Gibson book, and I thought it was beautifully written, quite a literary novel. I liked the characters, and I liked the idea of Cayce being sensitive to trends and brands, and having a logo \"allergy\". I'm now contemplating scratching the logos off of everything I own. Plot-wise, this isn't the most exciting book I've ever read. I was never bored, but the pacing was sedate, to say the least. The tone of the book was cool and deliberate - even the single fight scene followed by a chase seemed to move in slow motion. Still, it was a very readable, intriguing story, and I'll continue with the trilogy. The weakest point of the novel for me was the mysterious \"footage\" that drives the plot. I was never drawn into the characters' fascination with it. ...more As goodreads is Amazon, I am taking my reviews off goodreads. Nonetheless, I hope by providing links along with this ongoing message about why Amazon should not be part of our lives, this message is kept alive. I include some text from the beginning of each review because goodreads has been removing my reviews from places they can be seen and apparently this may make it less likely for them to do this. Read my lips, go on. Whilst a semblance of free speech exists on goodreads. FUCK AMAZON. It is As goodreads is Amazon, I am taking my reviews off goodreads. Nonetheless, I hope by providing links along with this ongoing message about why Amazon should not be part of our lives, this message is kept alive. I include some text from the beginning of each review because goodreads has been removing my reviews from places they can be seen and apparently this may make it less likely for them to do this. Read my lips, go on. Whilst a semblance of free speech exists on goodreads. FUCK AMAZON. It is so obvious why it is bad. And yet it is hard to wake up in the morning without seeing its encroachment into more of the world. As it happens, this is an apt introduction to this particular book. Mentioned one day by my friend Margaret, I happened to spot a copy in an English bookshop cafe in Grenoble just a couple of days later. May I describe it as a bookseller must? Hard cover in good nick, dust-jacket, 5Euros. Bargain. I have to say it rather depressed me, reading this. It described a world I don\u2019t live in and would not want to. The obsession with brand which bizarrely meant not that this girl eschewed brand in her own life, but that every bit of her life consists of the high snob factor of brand. Brand nonetheless. I found it completely mysterious that although labelling made her break out in spots and panic and so on \u2013 an allergy to the notion \u2013 nonetheless she lives in Starbucks. I thought we were going to have an explanation of that at one point, when a character actually asked her what gives, but no. She just stares at him and they move on. Well, they might have, but I couldn\u2019t. Starbucks gives me the willies and I don\u2019t vomit on sight of Michelin Man, the childhood start of her issues. So why was she immune? She has a well paying job as a consequence of her weirdness, telling companies whether or not a proposed logo makes her chunder. Nice work if you can get it. Here for the rest. http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres... ...more I was hoping to be blown away by the legendary William Gibson (none of whose legendary books I have read), but I found that Pattern Recognition reminded me a lot of Reamde by Neal Stephenson: it's a pacey, interesting techno-thriller that just never quite reached the peak of Awesome. I found Gibson's writing to be stronger than Stephenson's, but his characterization weaker. The main character is Cayce (pronounced \"Case\") Pollard, who has one of those odd freelance consultant jobs that can only ex I was hoping to be blown away by the legendary William Gibson (none of whose legendary books I have read), but I found that Pattern Recognition reminded me a lot of Reamde by Neal Stephenson: it's a pacey, interesting techno-thriller that just never quite reached the peak of Awesome. I found Gibson's writing to be stronger than Stephenson's, but his characterization weaker. The main character is Cayce (pronounced \"Case\") Pollard, who has one of those odd freelance consultant jobs that can only exist in the modern world: she's got a sort of preternatural sense for marketing. She can take one look at a logo and know whether it will \"click\" with the zeitgeist, making her very valuable to image-obsessed corporations. The downside of her talent is a disability that can also only exist in the modern world: she is allergic to certain trademarks and corporate symbols. The Michelin Man, for example, sends her into near-panic attacks. Cayce works for a firm called \"Blue Ant,\" run by a genius wunderkind with inscrutable motives (of course) who goes by \"Big End.\" Big End asks her to investigate the source of a viral video being obsessively discussed and followed on the Internet, a strange piece of work being released in segments by an unknown producer. Big End says he's captivated by its marketing potential, but soon it develops that many different people are interested in this video and its creator, for many different reasons. Cayce travels from London to Japan to Russia and is ensnared in one conspiracy after another in her quest for the maker. Strictly speaking, this book isn't really science fiction, since it takes place in the present day (actually, in 2002, when it was written) and there is no technology that doesn't actually exist. It still has a sci-fi feel to it, though not really much of a cyberpunkish one, unless you consider anything that revolves around online subcultures to be \"cyberpunk.\" (Yeah, I am still shelving it in both categories for sake of comparison when I browse for similar books.) I found Pattern Recognition to have a strong build-up but a rather weak pay-off. Nonetheless, the story moved along without ever getting boring and Gibson has a nice way with language and unlike some other authors I could name with high geek cachet, he didn't get a lot of stuff absurdly wrong. I've been told his Neuromancer series pretty much ignores everything that was actually known about computer science when it was written, but the Internet and computer technology in Pattern Recognition , possibly because it does not take place in the future, is pretty realistic. This book is solidly 3.5 stars (and I really wish Goodreads allowed half star ratings!). ...more 2.5 stars This wasn\u2019t what I was expecting. My fault entirely, as I misread the blurb. But the story was hard to follow at times with the author making points that went way over my head at times. It is written in a semi-stream of consciousness style, which didn\u2019t help me to follow what was happening. Stream-of-consciousness writing would have to be one of the things that most turns me off a book. That, and lack of punctuation for dialogue. Happily this one does have adequate punctuation. This was f 2.5 stars This wasn\u2019t what I was expecting. My fault entirely, as I misread the blurb. But the story was hard to follow at times with the author making points that went way over my head at times. It is written in a semi-stream of consciousness style, which didn\u2019t help me to follow what was happening. Stream-of-consciousness writing would have to be one of the things that most turns me off a book. That, and lack of punctuation for dialogue. Happily this one does have adequate punctuation. This was first published in 2003 and the references to technology make me think back to what I remember of technology in 2003. I can\u2019t work out whether the references to technology throughout are things that were current at the time, or how the author imagined technology would develop. I think in 2003 I didn\u2019t even have the internet on at home, so my perception of what was commonplace technology is probably skewed! The last 60 pages were the best part as things started to come together and make (a little) more sense. So there were aspects of this that were interesting, but overall, the difficult to follow plot made it hard going. I finished it because it fit into a few challenges, but if it hadn\u2019t been for that, I might have ditched it in the first 50 pages. (But then, there is always the possibility that a book will get better and I\u2019ll have missed out if I stop too soon! So I don\u2019t often quit books anyway - whether for a challenge or not\u2026) NB I started listening to the audiobook of this and gave it up as I felt the narrator's almost monotone made it difficult listening - but now I know the monotone probably suited the main character, and it might have actually been the style of writing that made listening difficult, rather than the narrator. ...more \u201cThe medium is the message\u201d \u2013 Marshall McLuhan \u201cWe have no future because our present is too volatile... We have only risk management. The spinning of the given moment\u2019s scenarios. Pattern recognition.\u201d \u2013 Herbertus Bigend, Pattern Recognition --- Pattern Recognition is the story of an eccentric trend spotter, Cayce Pollard, and her mission to find the latest viral videos clips attracting a cult-like appeal. William Gibson masterfully blends concise and powerful storytelling with present-day reality \u201cThe medium is the message\u201d \u2013 Marshall McLuhan \u201cWe have no future because our present is too volatile... We have only risk management. The spinning of the given moment\u2019s scenarios. Pattern recognition.\u201d \u2013 Herbertus Bigend, Pattern Recognition --- Pattern Recognition is the story of an eccentric trend spotter, Cayce Pollard, and her mission to find the latest viral videos clips attracting a cult-like appeal. William Gibson masterfully blends concise and powerful storytelling with present-day reality in a strangely compelling tale that\u2019ll hook you within the first page. What follows is my spoiler free review of the novel and an analysis of its themes and plot devices. I decided to include an analysis since there are so many reviews focused on the \u201cbig picture.\u201d In this review, you\u2019ll find both the macro and the micro view of the novel! * Story and at Glance: PR is not long. It\u2019s an extremely quick read and features the short sentence structure Gibson is known for utilizing. Shotgun sentences fired in rapid succession, their aim, true, on point and efficient. Word choice is paramount as the small sentences convey images and ideas far beyond their textual representations. The pacing of the novel is as quick as a simple adventure read but PR is so much more than that. Cayce lives label-free, practically allowing things to happen to her instead of taking an active role in her life. Pattern Recognition isn\u2019t just about the big picture. It\u2019s about Cayce accepting her past, breaking the bubble of isolation that\u2019s surrounded her most of her adult life. In a world where adventure awaits around every corner \u2013 a world of hidden codes, where corporate espionage runs wild \u2013 Cayce is forced to make tough choices, both during the course of her investigation as well as her personal life. Cayce is deeply involved in the \u201cfootage\u201d sub-culture. The novel spans multiple countries as she taps her F:F:F network - Fetish:Footage:Forum \u2013 in hopes of tracking down the clips creator. Cayce is tasked with piecing together the mystery and delivering her findings to <---C>Hubertus Bigend</---C>, CEO of the advertising and marketing firm Blue Ant \u2013 a figure that hires the \u201ccool hunter\u201d (Cayce) to uncover more details about the viral video clip. He\u2019s the key facilitator in PR, thrusting Cayce into the dangerous world of ancillary characters using marketing and advertising to sway hearts and minds. Cayce is teamed up with Boon Chu, a security guru and former failed entrepreneur, to go on a country-hopping quest. The mission will threaten to upend Cayce\u2019s life and force her to take a close look at her chosen profession and way of thinking. As you\u2019ve no doubt read, 9/11 and apopthenia play a huge role in PR. Cayce\u2019s own feelings are brought to the foreground as she is forced to deal with her past and \u2013 connected with the 9/11 attacks - uncover secrets in a world of criminals and spies. Gibson believes that 9/11 is one of many nodal points in history in which people began making connections and patterns out of seemingly random things (such as the \u201cit\u2019s-really-like\u201d phenomena Cayce notes upon going to a new city). Of course apopthenia has existed long before this sad historic event but the post-9/11 climate is the focus of the story and serves as a foundation for an excellent tale. But as Cayce\u2019s investigation progresses she\u2019ll have to answer the big question: are her experiences apopthetic and a result of past or are they really connected? How 9/11 and an \u201capopthenia bias\u201d relates to Cayce\u2019s past and her addiction for finding \u201cfootage\u201d is a critical element to the narrative and is explored completely in Pattern Recognition. In that sense, Cayce \u2013 flawlessly designed \u2013 grows as the novel progresses. Changes to her personality and ways of thinking are deep and intrinsic and you will be satisfied. If you\u2019re concerned with how well apopthenia is explored (and if you\u2019ll \u201cget it,\u201d or think it\u2019s worth reading about), don\u2019t be: Gibson does an excellent job of exploring this phenomenon and relating it to the story. ** Protagonist, Structure and Themes: Cayce is an extremely interesting character with complex thoughts and actions. She\u2019s so \u201creal\u201d that many of her thoughts and actions come across as contradictory to one another. But unlike novels that portray characters poorly, this contradiction is intended. She\u2019s seriously allergic to fashion and labels but is surrounded by them through working freelance for advertising companies. She has huge contracts with major companies but prefers to live her own life like a shadow, as little intervention as possible. Living in the now, Cayce is disconnected from both her past and unsure of her future. From early on we learn that Cayce is strongly against conventional corporate environments and labels. She\u2019s a 100%Gibson Rebel, not dissimilar to his cyberpunk characters. Cayce takes this eccentricity further by scratching out the brand and designer names on her own clothing. Her clothing \u2013 which the reader may describe as \u201calmost stylish\u201d in a rebellious way \u2013 is meant to be anti-fashionable, another contradiction Gibson handles well. In Cayce\u2019s thoughts regarding Andrei Tarkovsky\u2019s The Stalker (early on in the book), for example, her mindset is described flawlessly as: \u201cnot one of those who think that much will be gained by the analysis of the maker\u2019s imagined influences.\u201d She takes an object in and can see beyond subjective analysis; she can sense the inherent meaningfulness of the images themselves and their ability to gain attraction (the \u201ccool\u201d factor, the thing she searches for during her day job; the next big thing, critical in trademarking). Cayce is more of a sociologist or social psychologist than she realizes. Her \u201cabilities\u201d are tied to her understanding of how people interact and what they desire. Cayce may take a passenger\u2019s role in the world, allowing things to happen to her instead of taking the reins, but she\u2019s a master passenger, foreseeing speed bumps and points of interest along the way. Cayce \u201clikes Pilates because it isn\u2019t, in the way she thinks of yoga, as meditative.\u201d In another instance, the Shinx position she\u2019s practicing is described as having the following mentality: \u201c[y]ou do not get there by thinking about not thinking\u201d . The importance of the quotes shines through when considering Cayce\u2019s take on things of value in present day life. She believes such things require no deep meditative thought, they simply are or aren\u2019t. When Cayce rates a piece of art or marketing design, she doesn\u2019t \u201cthink\u201d about the item\u2019s meaning, she says \u201cYes\u201d or \u201cNo\u201d on intuition, her \u201ccool\u201d barometer is a mystery even to her. Everything Cayce thinks or does is bound to this structure. She is, in essence, a neutral or passive observer in all things. Philosophy and or cinema majors will instantly note that Pattern Recognition has a strong element of self-reflexivity, a commentary on the media as a whole, a story referring to itself. This is obvious because Gibson refers to Cayce\u2019s anti-art/fashion/logical thinking mindset and yet he makes this a novel, clearly wanting the reader to think critically or at least acknowledge some \"deeper\" ideas. Cayce becomes \u201creal\u201d in the eyes of the reader because her method is flawed, her pre-conceived notions of film and art on a meta-level actually requires deeper thought and reflection. She battles this during the course of PR, growing as a character. The Cayce character plays into the overall theme and story of Pattern Recognition: the past can be portrayed in any way, making reality malleable and the future unknowable. The modern world in which we live is completely volatile. In one indirect reference to the transient nature of history, Cayce touches a replacement jacket (the original had a hole in it); the text describes her going to touch the non-existent hole only to find, \u201chistory erased via the substitution of an identical object\u201d (Pg. 194). Finely crafted sentences convey powerful ideas. Other ideas expressed bring up interesting questions for the reader: what does art mean or say about the subject matter? Does it stand by itself, devoid of introspective thought? Is video clips part of a greater sequence? Is it part of a greater historical commentary? What does the text say of our relationship with the media, news, advertising and media? Or maybe this deeper analysis is yet another example of apopthenia? Gibson jests about this on interviews, clearly giving a nod to Pattern Recognition\u2019s overarching themes while letting the novel stand on its own with little \"revelations\" beyond what is written. Since Pattern Recognition is so well written - its ideas expressed so clearly - I find all of the answers in the novel to be satisfactory. *** Conclusion: The characters of Pattern Recognition are just as complex and interesting as Cayce Pollard. From the antique computer guy Voytek Biroshak to Hobbs Baranov, a retired math whiz with connections to the NSA. All of them receive considerable depth and seem believable. While Gibson\u2019s previous work was futuristic, this contemporary work manages to pull off high-tech with reality. If you\u2019re at all interested in the media\u2019s influence, marketing, espionage, steganography, codes, and the history of antiquities, you\u2019ll love PR. Pattern Recognition is a terrific standalone novel that takes place in a world that mirrors our own. Not only does it have an excellent and intriguing story, it has speculative themes that serve as critiques to the instant gratification world in which we live. In a world in which anything can go viral, advertising and media outlets really do control all that we see and hear, but are those their associations real? What gives them power? This novel will get you thinking and entertain you all at the same time. A huge fan of William Gibson\u2019s work and all things cyberpunk (including the dozens of spin-off series and role playing games like CP2020 and SR), I\u2019ve got to admit that Pattern Recognition tops anything he\u2019s ever written. While I\u2019m a bigger fan of reading about dystopian, high-tech futures than the present, this novel paints such an amazing picture of the world that I can\u2019t deny its strength as a classic work fiction. Even if you aren\u2019t into over analyzing Gibson tales (like yours truly), you\u2019ll probably love this highly regarded novel. It\u2019s extremely insightful, smart, fast paced, and easily worth the rating of 5/5. ...more I don't know how this book got to be a best-seller. Yet as I was traveling last month, I noticed that, for the first time, I was toting, along with my rolling suitcase, a paperback that was all over the airport booksellers' racks. I thought it was abysmal. A good friend had mentioned it to me, and I thought that he had recommended it, so when I saw a used copy at one of my favorite local bookstores , I grabbed it. I realized later, when I checked my notes, that he had actually recommended Count Ze I don't know how this book got to be a best-seller. Yet as I was traveling last month, I noticed that, for the first time, I was toting, along with my rolling suitcase, a paperback that was all over the airport booksellers' racks. I thought it was abysmal. A good friend had mentioned it to me, and I thought that he had recommended it, so when I saw a used copy at one of my favorite local bookstores , I grabbed it. I realized later, when I checked my notes, that he had actually recommended Count Zero . Oops. I found Pattern Recognition better-written than Neuromancer , which is saying very little indeed, but far from enjoyable. Although the premise was certainly interesting (involving, among other things, a protagonist whose lucrative career is based on her highly sensitive intrinsic ability to sense fashion trends), the characters were vaguely intriguing, and certain phrases (such as mirror-world) seemed fairly hip, I mostly thought it was boring and, for all its attempted hipness, somewhat overwrought. Bummer. ...more Definitely the most accessible Gibson novel written up to this point in his bibliography - it lacks the complex density of Neuromancer and is pretty rooted in the here-and-now. Also unlike his previous novels, Pattern Recognition only follows one protagonist, Cayce Pollard, instead of jumping between several entwining storylines. Gibson's portrayal of internet groups and internet friendships feels very authentic, especially when compared with fellow sci-fi author Cory Doctorow's. The mysterious f Definitely the most accessible Gibson novel written up to this point in his bibliography - it lacks the complex density of Neuromancer and is pretty rooted in the here-and-now. Also unlike his previous novels, Pattern Recognition only follows one protagonist, Cayce Pollard, instead of jumping between several entwining storylines. Gibson's portrayal of internet groups and internet friendships feels very authentic, especially when compared with fellow sci-fi author Cory Doctorow's. The mysterious footage clips in the novel remind me of a recent similar event from real life (see: iamamiwhoami ). The only downside is the ending, which feels fuzzy despite being completely forthcoming about the book's mysteries. But as I think about it, Gibson's endings are all pretty identical, aren't they? ...more This was a really fun book to read that I enjoyed all the way through. Unfortunately, the end did not live up the rest, leaving me sitting there wondering just a little bit what the point had been. It wasn't bad enough to spoil the enjoyment I got out of reading this book, but it was certainly a little jarring. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the enti This was a really fun book to read that I enjoyed all the way through. Unfortunately, the end did not live up the rest, leaving me sitting there wondering just a little bit what the point had been. It wasn't bad enough to spoil the enjoyment I got out of reading this book, but it was certainly a little jarring. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more I'd been meaning to read something by Gibson for a long time. I thought it would be Neuromancer. But this book fell into my hands first. Despite its 2003 copyright, which makes it very old by computer-world standards, the high-tech world that Gibson whips up here feels fresh. It takes place today--not in the distant future. Email, the web, viral marketing, high fashion, international espionage, contemporary underground art all collide here. I could not put it down. Takes place mostly in London, I'd been meaning to read something by Gibson for a long time. I thought it would be Neuromancer. But this book fell into my hands first. Despite its 2003 copyright, which makes it very old by computer-world standards, the high-tech world that Gibson whips up here feels fresh. It takes place today--not in the distant future. Email, the web, viral marketing, high fashion, international espionage, contemporary underground art all collide here. I could not put it down. Takes place mostly in London, woth side trips to New York, Tokyo and Moscow. ...more riveting. plus I felt hip reading it. After reading Neuromancer I took a short detour into some of Gibson\u2019s other works of fiction, and then I read Virtual Light . With Pattern Recognition I seem to have established a trend of reading his three trilogies in a breadth-first rather than depth-first mode: having completed all of the first books, I will now read all three second books, etc. This might be an unusual way to go about it, but I hope it offers some insights and connections that might not make themselves apparent were I to rea After reading Neuromancer I took a short detour into some of Gibson\u2019s other works of fiction, and then I read Virtual Light . With Pattern Recognition I seem to have established a trend of reading his three trilogies in a breadth-first rather than depth-first mode: having completed all of the first books, I will now read all three second books, etc. This might be an unusual way to go about it, but I hope it offers some insights and connections that might not make themselves apparent were I to read all of, say, the Sprawl trilogy first before moving on to Bridge and Bigend. William Gibson is a much-celebrated author of science fiction. There\u2019s just something about the way he writes that elevates his stories above simpler, more reliable forms of science fictional stories. He has this almost childlike fascination with technology and where it is taking us now , here in the present, not fifty or a hundred or a hundred thousand years in the future. (I love the far-future posthumanist authors; I really do, but there is a certain amount of discontinuity between their depictions and what we see today.) I want to call it prescience , but that is definitely not the right term to use: there is nothing about Neuromancer that is prescient so much as influential . I follow him on Twitter , and he is always posting and retweeting links to the strangest stories of technological innovation, changes to the way corporations manipulate media to advertise, etc. I feel like Gibson gets it , whatever \u201cit\u201d means\u2014that crucial comprehension and vision of how technology is changing what we are as a species. Once again someone is trying to film Neuromancer , and I wish them the best of luck\u2014this is no doubt a tricky project, although I would love to finally see it as a movie. Neuromancer is an excellent novel, both in general and for its role it played in inspiring cyberpunk. My review is somewhat pretentious, especially toward the end, but I still agree with most of its sentiment. As much as I love William Gibson as a writer, something has held me back from ever giving one of his books five stars. Until now. So what changed? One sentence, one phrase, talking about Cayce\u2019s unusual sensitivity to logos and branding, has become the symbol for why I think Pattern Recognition is worth five stars. Here\u2019s the paragraph for context: The national symbols of her homeland don\u2019t trigger her, or so far haven\u2019t. And over the past year, in New York, she\u2019s been deeply grateful for this. An allergy to flags or eagles would have reduced her to shut-in status: a species of semiotic agoraphobia . The emphasis is mine, highlighting the phrase that confirmed Pattern Recognition \u2019s status. I just love that turn of phrase! Maybe it\u2019s the Umberto Eco fan in me talking now, but the phrase is just so poetic and so apt, for it describes what it would be like to feel the impact of every symbol we experience. Mass media and consumer culture have teamed up to inundate us with symbols, and in turn that has desensitized us to the vast majority of them: I think nothing of seeing the logo for Coca-Cola when I\u2019m driving, because that\u2019s just a part of the scenery. That\u2019s why companies are now seizing on alternative marketing strategies, like the viral strategies we see a bit of in Pattern Recognition . Media have changed us as a species, so the advertisers are striving to keep up and move on to the next paradigm. I find it interesting that Gibson named his protagonist \u201cCayce\u201d, which looks so similar to the name of Neuromancer \u2019s protagonist, \u201cCase\u201d. It\u2019s supposed to be pronounced \u201cCasey\u201d, but Cayce herself says she prefers \u201cCase\u201d, and indeed, that\u2019s how I first read it in my head. I\u2019m not sure what kind of parallels, if any, he is attempting to draw\u2014although both are somewhat isolated people who seem more comfortable socializing online than they do in person, and both have a rare skill they use to get jobs. Cayce\u2019s suspicion and small rebellions against Bigend also remind me of Case\u2019s self-empowerment while working for Wintermute\u2014they aren\u2019t just pawns of the big player, but quite vocal employees who have the ability to affect the outcome of the game, if not completely change its balance. But Pattern Recognition affected me on a much deeper level than Neuromancer , which is why I feel comfortable giving it five stars. Maybe it\u2019s just that I\u2019ve been contemplating the way media attempt to influence us (especially for my Education, Media, and Gender class). Whatever the reason, I\u2019m in a phase of my life where the effects of media and the critique of media are very much at the forefront of my mind, and so those elements of Pattern Recognition spoke volumes to me. When I say Gibson \u201cgets it\u201d, what I mean is that he takes all of these ideas about companies and advertising strategies, globalization and viral marketing on the Internet, and rotates them ever so slightly, giving us a slightly skewed version of the world\u2014that\u2019s the science fiction. We get Bigend, Blue Ant, and the footage, and it all works out into a very compelling commentary on the evolution of marketing in our global, digital village. There\u2019s a certain zaniness to Pattern Recognition too. The back cover copy of my edition captures this: But when she is co-opted into the search for the creator of a strangely addictive on-line film, Cayce wonders if she has done the right\u2014or indeed, safe\u2014thing. And that\u2019s before violence, Japanese computer crazies, and Russian Mafia men are in the mix. Just Japanese computer crazies or Russian mafia might make the novel a suitably noir thriller; both, however, are greedy and over the top. The description sounds more like something suited to Nick Harkaway than Gibson; \u201cabsurd\u201d doesn\u2019t really seem his style. Somehow, though, just as he does in Virtual Light , Gibson manages to unify these disparate story elements into something less absurd and more unusual . Pattern Recognition is definitely fiction, and it might be a little over the top, but that\u2019s part of its charm and why it was so difficult to put it down. The next amazing ingredient is Cayce herself: she is an excellent character. From Molly to Chevette Gibson writes interesting, complex female characters, but Cayce is my favourite so far. She is so human and flawed: there are mentions of past relationships, boyfriends who didn\u2019t work out and the strained thread between her and her mother. And Gibson avoids some of the common missteps that seem to undermine otherwise strong female characters in fiction: she never moons over another character or hooks up with a male companion only to regret it later (I was worried when Boone arrived on the scene, but I should have had more faith). Yet she does eventually find some kind of human companionship toward the end of the book\u2014Gibson leaves the exact nature of their relationship somewhat open for interpretation, in my opinion, which is all the better. Are you taking notes, Stephenie Meyer? Pattern Recognition is much closer to Neuromancer than Virtual Light in the sense that Cayce is the main character and everyone else is supporting cast. She succumbs\u2014and I do think that\u2019s the correct word to use here\u2014to Bigend\u2019s offer to hire her to find the creator of the footage, but she does so for a very personal reason. As a result, Cayce\u2019s social world constricts as different elements come into contact: her new Polish acquaintances suddenly provide a contact who has friends in the NSA; her online acquaintance Parkaboy becomes an unlikely ally as Russian mafia agents close in on her. Gibson takes all of these ideas about viral videos and marketing and turns them into a close-knit, suspense-laden thriller\u2014the result being, I suspect, a slightly science-fictional book that would appeal to a lot of readers. I\u2019m often very snobbish when it comes to thrillers, and I admit I might be biased because it\u2019s a thriller by William Gibson. But I do feel that it\u2019s the union of all these elements that makes this book so successful. It has the same gritty feel of Neuromancer and a similar, intelligent sight on our zeitgeist, but it felt a lot more relevant to me than his other works. And for that reason, Pattern Recognition is the Gibson book that broke the five-star barrier. ...more Set about a year after 9/11, this book is closer to thriller than SF - indeed, I'm not sure I would count it as SF at all. Cayce is a kind of marketing design savant, able to spot by instinct when a brand or logo would be successful. Logos provoke a kind of allergic reaction in her. She's also one of a growing group obsessed with \"the footage\" - compelling fragments of film released anonymously onto the internet. Cayce frequents a forum that analyses every frame of the footage, debating clothing Set about a year after 9/11, this book is closer to thriller than SF - indeed, I'm not sure I would count it as SF at all. Cayce is a kind of marketing design savant, able to spot by instinct when a brand or logo would be successful. Logos provoke a kind of allergic reaction in her. She's also one of a growing group obsessed with \"the footage\" - compelling fragments of film released anonymously onto the internet. Cayce frequents a forum that analyses every frame of the footage, debating clothing history, possible meaning, the likelihood of completed film, and why so many viewers are so powerfully affected by the footage. Then she is hired by a very rich marketing mogul, who wants her to track down who is releasing the footage. This is a story about internet zeitgeist, about forum friendships, about the psychology of advertising and viral video - and also of the changing of eras, as the internet increasingly erases the lines between borders. It is an old world slipping away and a new forming. It's also that moment you have, when you're watching Grand Designs, where the host - after for some time doubting whether or not this week's house owner's architectural ambitions will work - smiles as the music cranks up and he starts extolling the virtues of yet another glass and polished steel box, and you the viewer, without a spare million pounds to throw away on titanium countertops and 'integrity', mutter: \"What fucking wank\" and change channels. The beginning of Pattern Recognition, particularly, is a morass of design-speak that is difficult to swallow. I kept grimacing whenever Cayce would talk so passionately about the soul-less imitation that is Tommy Hilfiger, or buy Levi 501s and then have every recognisable feature removed. This is someone allergic to branding, but who is deeply into fashion. But, still, putting aside my vast disinterest in designer clothing, Cayce was likeable enough, in a kind of anxious but determined way, and I was as curious as any about the explanation for the footage. I won't go into that particular plot resolution. It was neither entirely disappointing, nor exciting and powerful. Though the relative fade of interest at the ending is also to do with Cayce's role in the plot. There are quite a few women in this story, but all the powerful actors are men. Only Cayce and one other woman (who is your standard eviljealousbitch) have real plot importance in the efforts to solve the mystery. And the mystery solving is not done by Cayce. Oh, she technically does so, by being the physical actor, but the solving is all coordinated by men. Man 1 hires her. Man 2 gives her a clue to follow up and sets up a meeting. She meets up with Man 3 to get that information. Man 4 physically helps her out. Man 5 tells her how to pressure Man 6 to get another bit of information, and a favour related to Daddy is involved. Woman antagonist gets in her way a couple of times throughout. Man 2 shows up for another rescue, while Man 3 is dismissed as not being competent enough, and Man 1 gets what he wanted all along. Some women are artistic and protected in the background. Cayce's brand-sensitivity seems to contribute nothing to the resolution. The end, where Cayce simply bleats reaction to various men explaining things to her (after being incredibly naive and stupid so that she is put into danger) is particularly frustrating, since she started out as a more interesting character. Anyway, the concept drew me in and I was drawn through by wanting to know the explanation, but definitely not on my re-read pile. [I'll also need to redefine my definition of science fiction, it seems, since there is nothing in this story that is not contemporary, yet this was a finalist for numerous SF awards.] ...more Much has been made of Gibson's latest not being science-fiction \u2013 and it's not \u2013 but it's still Gibson, much like Cryptonomicon was still Neal Stephenson. Incidentally, I'd highly recommend this book to fans of Cryptonomicon, as well as to anyone who has enjoyed any of Gibson's other books. The \u2018cyberpunk' attitude is still there, as the plot interweaves the world of high tech with subculture, organized crime, and the lives of individuals... just instead of in the near future, it's happening now. Much has been made of Gibson's latest not being science-fiction \u2013 and it's not \u2013 but it's still Gibson, much like Cryptonomicon was still Neal Stephenson. Incidentally, I'd highly recommend this book to fans of Cryptonomicon, as well as to anyone who has enjoyed any of Gibson's other books. The \u2018cyberpunk' attitude is still there, as the plot interweaves the world of high tech with subculture, organized crime, and the lives of individuals... just instead of in the near future, it's happening now. Cayce is a young woman with an unusual neurosis \u2013 she's phobic about brand names and logos \u2013 which can cause serious problems when she's walking around today's advertising-rich, fashion-conscious cities.... However, she's made this psychological tic work for her \u2013 she's in high demand as a marketing consultant who can tell if a proposed logo will be a \u2018hit' or not. In her free time, Cayce \u2018hangs out' in an online chat forum devoted to discussing \u2018the footage' \u2013 a collection of video clips that have been anonymously released onto the Internet. The high quality of the video and the mystery surrounding the clips' provenance have intrigued a growing number of film fans... so many in fact, that Cayce is hired to find out who the filmmaker is, since the \u2018marketing strategy' is so brilliant. Little does she guess that the search will bring her from her New York City apartment to London, Tokyo, and Moscow, involving her with vicious businesspeople who may be cutthroat in more ways than one, Cold War era spies, mobsters, millionaires, hired thugs, computer nerds, dealers in vintage calculators, conceptual artists... and other odd characters. The book's got suspense, mystery, action... but it's also full of really interesting ideas and bits of information. It also truly excels at conveying both the \u2018feel' and details of visiting cities overseas \u2013 their similarities and small differences, the disconnect and the exoticism... I got that \u2018yes! It's just like that!!' feeling a LOT with both the London and Tokyo scenes.... Moscow, I'm not sure \u2013 I haven't been there. But I suspect that Gibson visited both London and Tokyo during the writing of the book \u2013 but not Russia. In the future, I suspect people will read this book to gain a feel for what it was like to live at the dawning of the 21st century \u2013 and they'll get some pretty accurate information (mixed in with the spy thriller stuff!) ...more This is a little different for Gibson. It's not really a future setting, but it drips with the usual Gibson sentence fragments and whimsy. Overall, the story is there and it has a beginning a middle and an end, but to be honest, the book lacks in a particular quality - there's nothing really at stake. The story is fairly linear, and focuses on the main character, Casey Pollard. She's what is called a 'cool hunter'. She divines trends and evaluates logo work. She has a literal allergy to fashion a This is a little different for Gibson. It's not really a future setting, but it drips with the usual Gibson sentence fragments and whimsy. Overall, the story is there and it has a beginning a middle and an end, but to be honest, the book lacks in a particular quality - there's nothing really at stake. The story is fairly linear, and focuses on the main character, Casey Pollard. She's what is called a 'cool hunter'. She divines trends and evaluates logo work. She has a literal allergy to fashion as well. The Michelin Man and Tommy Hilfiger logos sent her into bouts of nausea. This strangely allergenic woman is also a follower of 'the footage' - a series of seemingly randomly released video snippets, anonymously found on the internet every few days or weeks. It's this footage that gets her into a strange world of ex-intelligence community elite and other fellow followers of the footage. She's been hired by a very big marketing guru, Hubertas Bigend, who wishes to know the origin of the footage as it is the most amazing marketing phenomena he's ever seen and sets Cayse running. The book has all sorts of good conventions, a very cat-and-mouse spy chic going on, though none of the participants are actively spies for any government any longer. As mentioned before, the problem lies in the fact that nothing is really at stake. While Cayse moves from place to place and meets interesting people and the story of the footage becomes progressively stranger, there's nothing that ever really hangs in the balance for anyone else than Cayse. It's not a bad read, but it's not Gibson's best. I'd recommend it for anyone who is a Gibson stylist or for people with a thing for stories about spies (or ex-spies). ...more It's a funny CayceP-ish quirk of fate that this was published in 2003 (and not under the radar\u2014it was a NYT bestseller) when I was 23, but I found it a few weeks ago, when I was the exact same age as the protagonist, 32-year-old Cayce Pollard. As Win Pollard says (and Cayce reminds us several times) you must always leave room for coincidence. Or, as pattern recognizer extraordinaire Nate Silver says, beware of overfitting. Ben in his review succinctly described Pattern Recognition as \"The only pi It's a funny CayceP-ish quirk of fate that this was published in 2003 (and not under the radar\u2014it was a NYT bestseller) when I was 23, but I found it a few weeks ago, when I was the exact same age as the protagonist, 32-year-old Cayce Pollard. As Win Pollard says (and Cayce reminds us several times) you must always leave room for coincidence. Or, as pattern recognizer extraordinaire Nate Silver says, beware of overfitting. Ben in his review succinctly described Pattern Recognition as \"The only piece of popular fiction that ever got the internet right...\" What's great about that description is that you have no idea what it means, in terms of a novel, but it makes you want to read the book described, right? And Pattern Recognition is a book about the internet, that gets the internet, which means that it is ultimately a book about people, that gets people. (Oh yeah, spoiler: the internet = people.) Crazy, obsessive, self-sabotaging, pilates-doing, jet-lag-having, kinda slutty, kind of wonderful people. It is awesome. Some of the daddy-9/11 stuff didn't really work for me, and seemed forced, but Gibson does do a better job with it than the other 9/11 novels I've read ( The Emperor's Children , The Good Life , Netherland ). ...more The novel is set in a number of present day cities, in a way that seems futuristic/sci-fi. I read this book in a class called \"The Novel and Globalization\"--and I believe having that context was helpful-at first. As the book progressed the suspence was built on the mystery of where the many relavent themes and styles converge in the plot. My favorite part of reading the book was digesting the refernces to art, architecture, and literature, throughout that acutally added meaning to the text rathe The novel is set in a number of present day cities, in a way that seems futuristic/sci-fi. I read this book in a class called \"The Novel and Globalization\"--and I believe having that context was helpful-at first. As the book progressed the suspence was built on the mystery of where the many relavent themes and styles converge in the plot. My favorite part of reading the book was digesting the refernces to art, architecture, and literature, throughout that acutally added meaning to the text rather than just being \"name dropped\" for the sake of it. I think this is one of the real reason why this novel can be creddited with dealing with the post-modern problem of recycling refernces--Gibson highlights the difference between the ones that matter and the ones that don't. My favorite example: \"As the elevator doors close behind her, she closes her eyes and sees the dry petal, falling. The lonliness of ojbects. Their secret lives. Like seeing something move in a Cornell box.\" (A funny side note for those who've read it (no spoiler): It's being made into a movie, and an F:F:F-like forum has errupted on imdb, very funny to experience in real life after reading about it. ...more A really big letdown after the masterful depiction of cyberpunk in Neuromancer . Perhaps the problem is that the entire story takes place in a modern-day setting instead of in an interesting future. Or perhaps the problem is lack of relatable characters or a plot that maintains the reader's interest for the duration of the story. In any case, steer clear of this one. On page 130, Gibson has a hotel clerk \"imprinting the Blue Ant card\" at the Park Hyatt Tokyo. I don't know about you guys, but the last time I saw someone imprint a credit card I was just old enough to barely understand that the plastic card was some sort of replacement for cash. This book is supposed to be current (turn of the century). It was published in 2003, so I presume 2000 is as good as any for last-edits. Can anyone remember if anyone still imprinted credit cards in 2000, much less a fi On page 130, Gibson has a hotel clerk \"imprinting the Blue Ant card\" at the Park Hyatt Tokyo. I don't know about you guys, but the last time I saw someone imprint a credit card I was just old enough to barely understand that the plastic card was some sort of replacement for cash. This book is supposed to be current (turn of the century). It was published in 2003, so I presume 2000 is as good as any for last-edits. Can anyone remember if anyone still imprinted credit cards in 2000, much less a five star hotel like the Park Hyatt Tokyo? Moral of the story: everyone makes mistakes, and so always read as if doing so with a fine-toothed comb? I mean, it was probably meant as a throwaway line (yet I've never thought of Gibson as a writer who did throwaways), and yet it's obviously incongruous enough that I'm obsessing over this. When I bought the book I had no idea there was going to be an extensive portion set in Tokyo. I keep comparing Gibson's descriptions with those I would use, and at the same time, admiring his facility. His character is so sensitive to brands she constantly uses the words when thinking. Not only that--having the ubiquitous Burberry plaid pointed out just makes one blink and go, \"... yes, I noticed that.\" Yet he noticed, enough to use it in his writing. I need to stop interrupting myself and just read this properly, dammit. Knee-socks are pass\u00e9 now. Wonder if they were pass\u00e9 in 2000. Dammit, I am stopping constantly to remark at the new-and-not-new world painted in this book. Gibson has only to mention the word Shibuya, and immediately I see the Hachiko exit, the mural and pedestrian scramble, half of the green train carriage, no Hachiko (usually too small to see, considering the HUGE crowd around it all the time), the 109-1 and 109-2 buildings, the Starbucks with the video/bookstore/cinema, the street with all the people walking by the big drugstore, shoestore, up to the McDonalds ... dammit, this is what all those words bring up instantly. Why couldn't I have imagined another exit, on the other side? Like, you know, the one with that huge overhead pedestrian bridge (so big calling it a bridge is akin to calling Central Park a garden), leading to the Malaysian embassy, or to the Shibuya Animate? Why is it ALWAYS there? I quote, \"Every man there has obviously been staring, but immediately looks down or away.\" *clears throat* No. Tokyoites are actually a lot more practiced about staring at you. Saying _every_ man has been staring had the unfortunate effect of making me immediately dislike Cayce VERY much. And you were doing so well, Gibson, with the talk of soul-delay that every traveller recognizes as a beautiful way to present jetlag. Now you went and ruined everything with one sentence. ARGH. The constant referencing of brand names gets a little tiring after a while. *sigh* I keep wandering off. I guess this is the mid-book slump people talk about. If nothing else, reading all these books is teaching me a lot about how to structure a book. I liked the ending; though in some sense it felt a little too hurried, in another sense it was the right pace. Once the mid-book slump was over, the ending rushed up so quickly it's now 5pm and I have no idea where the time went. In the end, Gibson pulled through, and that was the important thing. ...more I had a hard time deciding how I felt about this book. It took a really long time for it to build up to anything, and I had a hard time buying Cayce's \"allergy.\" This was a slow read for me. It was full of pages and pages of Cayce doing things, like working, and meeting people, but nothing really happened. The book picked up speed and became incredibly interesting in the last fifty pages, when Dorotea drugs her, but then rapidly flatlines again. I did enjoy the characters, to an extent (and I'll g I had a hard time deciding how I felt about this book. It took a really long time for it to build up to anything, and I had a hard time buying Cayce's \"allergy.\" This was a slow read for me. It was full of pages and pages of Cayce doing things, like working, and meeting people, but nothing really happened. The book picked up speed and became incredibly interesting in the last fifty pages, when Dorotea drugs her, but then rapidly flatlines again. I did enjoy the characters, to an extent (and I'll get to that in a moment). They were all very colorful, three-dimensional, and had the coolest quirks I've seen in fiction in a while. I especially enjoyed Voytek, Ngemi, and Hobbs. I think those three need their own series. Bigend's abuse of the Stetson was hysterical, and Taki and Julie's relationship kept me smiling, too. I even liked Cayce, even though her \"panic disorder\" was farfetched and inconsistent. I'm a huge psychology nerd, and found that there wasn't enough of a point of reference to her problem with brands and logos. At first it seemed as though she simply held a disdain for them, making her one of those anti-corporation characters. Then, at the mention of all branding being removed from her clothing, I thought she was more on the Asperger's end of characterization. At first I got the impression it's all brands that she feels uncomfortable looking at, but then it was mentioned it's only certain ones. She can use an Apple computer\u2014which is excessively branded\u2014and look at Hello Kitty, but the sight of Levi's and Prada makes her break out in hives, and the Michelin Man gives her a straight up anxiety attack. I really wanted to be charmed by this quirk of hers, and tried to ignore how little sense it made, but the email from her therapist really killed it for me. After Dorotea slips her the equivalent of a roofie, Cayce is mysteriously cured. I've heard so many good things about William Gibson, but I was not impressed. Everything else seemed meticulously researched, from the Rickson's (the color of which he made up, but everything else was spot on), to Russian government and post-Soviet life, to the way the internet and Echelon works. I may read the other books in this series later, but I'm in no hurry, and will probably just borrow them from the library rather than buy them. It makes me sad, because I really wanted to like this book. ...more Brilliantly written, but like the rest of Gibson's novels, the ending leaves something to be desired. Not exactly unfulfilling, more like seeing all of the pieces come together into a picture that is just a little underwhelming. Just like the rest of Gibson's other works (Neuromancer and Spook Country being the only two i have read, in all honesty), the story is initially compelling and the mysteries and conspiracies are thought provoking. But the resolution just doesn't have that same \"snap\" or Brilliantly written, but like the rest of Gibson's novels, the ending leaves something to be desired. Not exactly unfulfilling, more like seeing all of the pieces come together into a picture that is just a little underwhelming. Just like the rest of Gibson's other works (Neuromancer and Spook Country being the only two i have read, in all honesty), the story is initially compelling and the mysteries and conspiracies are thought provoking. But the resolution just doesn't have that same \"snap\" or \"pep\" that everything before the climax does. That's not to say it's a bad book, it's far from it. The examination of popular culture, fads and trends is probably the best i have read. To top it off, Cayce Pollard is very interesting character. Her physical allergy to branding is novel, and makes sense, in conjunction with her line of work. Of course, Blue Ant, and Hubertus Bigend are enigmatic as every. The supporting caste are colorful and eccentric as always. Overall, highly recommended. Mild Spoilers: The only problems i have are of unexplained deus ex machina, some slight hand waving over the use of steganographic data (why did they even need to tag the clips?), and a generally unsatisfying ending (the romance was not necessary, and felt totally tacked on and contrived). That said, i loved the ambiguity surrounding Win Pollard. ...more I've read this book a couple of times and I absolutely love it. Maybe it's because I worked in advertising (and have my own horror of logos) but I really identified with the main character (even though obviously I am no where near as cool as she is). Usually with William Gibson novels, I feel like my brain is being overloaded with information at all times and I'm only absorbing a fraction of the data contained in the novels. But Pattern Recognition manages to have all of the thematic complexity I've read this book a couple of times and I absolutely love it. Maybe it's because I worked in advertising (and have my own horror of logos) but I really identified with the main character (even though obviously I am no where near as cool as she is). Usually with William Gibson novels, I feel like my brain is being overloaded with information at all times and I'm only absorbing a fraction of the data contained in the novels. But Pattern Recognition manages to have all of the thematic complexity that William Gibson fans expect with a \"cleaner\" narrative that is much easier to follow. The writing here is so filmic that when I think about the book I actually see scenes in my head as if I've experienced them visually rather than textually. In fact, I'm simultaneously dying for someone to film this book and at the same time terrified that whoever shoots it will screw it up. Really a wonderful, hauntingly beautiful book. My words of praise do not come anywhere near doing this book justice. ...more I just re-read this book and liked it even more during the second reading (and have changed my rating from four to five stars). Gibson has pared an already spare writing style down without sacrificing the elegance or evocative nature of his prose. He makes you see things in the plot as though they occur at the very edge of peripheral vision. Were they even there at all? Although it would seem that this would create an emotional distance too profound to be crossed, the opposite is true. As I writ I just re-read this book and liked it even more during the second reading (and have changed my rating from four to five stars). Gibson has pared an already spare writing style down without sacrificing the elegance or evocative nature of his prose. He makes you see things in the plot as though they occur at the very edge of peripheral vision. Were they even there at all? Although it would seem that this would create an emotional distance too profound to be crossed, the opposite is true. As I write this, I think of an image from the book, a single petal falling from a vase full of dried roses, and I'm close to tears. The emotion, the mood, of a character, a setting, even an article of clothing, is just right there. No buffer. Gibson is one of my favorite writers (I have never considered him a genre writer), and this is his best book. ...more Some books suggest entire universes; some don't. This is one of the latter. I only vaguely remember reading William Gibson's Neuromancer trilogy, some billion or so years ago, but one thing I do remember is its suggestion of a vaster, more complicated world than the books described; that was part of what made them so exciting, I think. And that was despite Gibson's hard-boiled prose and only light sketching of his characters's interior lives. He did it by having his characters act, in a weird wor Some books suggest entire universes; some don't. This is one of the latter. I only vaguely remember reading William Gibson's Neuromancer trilogy, some billion or so years ago, but one thing I do remember is its suggestion of a vaster, more complicated world than the books described; that was part of what made them so exciting, I think. And that was despite Gibson's hard-boiled prose and only light sketching of his characters's interior lives. He did it by having his characters act, in a weird world that nonetheless made sense. This book brings back the hard-boiled prose and characters--well, really only one main character, one character who ever comes into focus--with an interior life that is mostly opaque. But the universe in which she operates feels cramped, small--despite her jet-setting between London, Tokyo, and Moscow, despite flashbacks to New York and flashforwards to France. The story is about Cayce Pollard. She is a cool hunter--she pays attention to street fashions and has a sixth sense for knowing what kind of advertising logos will work. (Her first name is meant to evoke the supposed mystic Edgar Cayce, a reference the book makes explicit.) In the course of her day job, she is hired for her avocational interest, too. Like a small cult of people, Cayce has developed a passionate interest in a series of film stills being released anonymously, and spread virally, through the internet. Who is making these? Why? She and her on-line friends wonder--and then she is tasked with finding out. Which gets us to her last name, Pollard--as in the spy, Jonathan Pollard. Because this aspect of the story takes her into geopolitics, as various nations jockey to position themselves in a world in which capital is both making old-fashioned products seem . . . old-fashioned, and also erasing (or obscuring might be a better word) nation's boundaries. She is caught between spies and bad actors of various sorts as she travels around the globe--paid for by the limitless wealth of one of these multinational corporations--looking for the creator of the film. Cayce, unfortunately, never really comes alive as a character. She is passive for long stretches of the novel, and when she acts ends up surprising herself. Unfortunately, this pattern feeds int the old trope of the woman who doesn't know how beautiful she is (or how smart, or how capable), and only comes to realize it through the gaze of some man. Gibson was praised, in his earlier work, for making the gleaming, clean, slightly fascist future of mid-century science fiction grittier, more complicated, pluralistic (the future is here, but unevenly distributed); for bringing in the language of the Beats, of William Burroughs, and of Dashiell Hammett. Those influences are still visible here, but so are others. (They may have been visible in the earlier books, too, and I either missed them or forgot.) It's hard not to see Hammett's peer, Raymond Chandler, in Gibson's fetishization of the material world. Objects are lovingly described--in stark contrast to the interior lives of the characters. There's also a sense of Pynchon, Philip K. Dick, and Kurt Vonnegut--in the paranoia, in the creation of some of the controlling characters, particularly Hubertus Bigend (a name straight from Dick or Pynchon). And it is hard not to read about the mysterious film and think not only of the original Japanese movie \"The Ring\" (released 1998) but also Infinite Jest. The language is what keeps the book interesting, the left-of-center comparisons, the tense sentences. Because--in addition to Case being un-fully realized--the world here is, too. Gibson makes the point that the world at the time of the writing--roughly the present--is too complicated to suggest any particular future. But that ends up meaning everything feels flat. The terrorist attacks of 9-11 are invoked, but rather than apocalyptic, they are personal, and so also reduced. For all the moving, there is no sense of space. In fact, I think all the moving helps to eradicate the sense of space. Cayce calls London the mirror world, but a mirror needs to be set up right next to the object it is showing. London and New York are right near each other, Tokyo only a page or two away. Over the space of three hundred or so pages, the story is only intermittently interesting. The best parts are when Gibson is only obliquely approaching the central mystery, allowing Cayce to sidle up to it in unexpected ways. When the story becomes too focused on exposition, it loses momentum, because the character is not strong enough or the world interesting enough to sustain it. (The sidling gives glimpses of the bigger world.) But--it is also the case that the book sometimes drifts too far from the main story line, and again loses momentum. There were parts of the book I was reading avidly, others that I was tempted to set it down and forget about it, lump the mystery. Running throughout the book--fittingly, given its title--are metaphors about seeing. But they are unconventional ones: different ways of finding patterns. Cayce is allergic to most brand logos, becoming physically ill in their presence. Others make her neutral or give her a thrill. This is her gift. There's also references to braille. Toward the beginning of the book, Cayce remembers feeling a gun behind the headboard of her lover's bed--feeling it like braille--and knowing then that she could not stay with him, because if his life was that dangerous, she wanted no part of it. Toward the end, as she is thinking through the various entwined plots--reading them like braille, Gibson says--she again is finding a world too dangerous for her, one that she needs to escape. Which is a nice set up, but the punchline is not a pay-off. Thematically, the book turns put to be a Gnostic tale. (Philip K. Dick, again.) Cayce's story--through happenstance and manipulation--leads her to the capitalist rulers of the new world. These are the false gods. And she finds the maker of the film, related to these demiurges, but purveyors of light. (The movie is several times referred to as luminous.) They are the ones who keep humanity's true soul fed. It is the artists, working with the dregs left over by capitalism, and the spare change dropped from its tables, that really make the world go around. It's an old theme, but that doesn't make it wrong: clich\u00e9s are so hoary because they have truth in them. The goal of the novelist is to portray them novelly, or beautifully. And that's, ultimately, where the book fails. In an interview with Paris Review, Gibson said that he rewrites his book again and again starting from page one, each day, so that the early parts of the book have been worked over scores (hundreds?) of times, but the end pages only a few. That's definitely the feel here. The dialogue towards the end of the book feels forced, expositional. Everything leads up to a final scene with all the major characters converging on one spot, and everything being explained in what is essentially an extended info dump. Characters who have only been peripheral to the story are suddenly central, know everything, and explain everything to Cayce--who of course was knocked out for a large portion of it. It's an unsatisfying end to an uneven book. All the loose ends are tied up, but the method feels like force feeding. It's not a bad book; parts of it are quite brilliant. It just doesn't feel finished. ...more You know how people tend to describe books as \"extremely readable\" and you kind of want to punch them in the face and deem them \"extremely punchable\"? Well, I'm afraid to say that readable is exactly the word that came to mind reading this. Even using it myself though, I am still not quite sure what it is supposed to denote. Perhaps, why it occurs to me is that it is the kind of book I can take with me to bed and fall asleep with, it has a plot as its pith which depending on your literary prefer You know how people tend to describe books as \"extremely readable\" and you kind of want to punch them in the face and deem them \"extremely punchable\"? Well, I'm afraid to say that readable is exactly the word that came to mind reading this. Even using it myself though, I am still not quite sure what it is supposed to denote. Perhaps, why it occurs to me is that it is the kind of book I can take with me to bed and fall asleep with, it has a plot as its pith which depending on your literary preferences is either self-evident or something of a marvel (for me it's the latter) and this plot kind of unfolds and is pushed out into the black spots of the map from page one with centrifugal force, then drawn back in again to that self-same center. I recently heard Gibson described as somewhere on the fringe between genre and literary fiction, and this book perfectly proves that to me. Gibson is to some extent occupied with ideas, though certainly not as much here as in Neuromancer . He is also, more than the average genre fiction author, preoccupied with style, but then his attempts tend towards quiddities or foibles; particularly, here, his frequent lapse into elision, his treating English as a pro-drop language, where the subject can be easily left out. When he does this thing: She's gone to Harvey Nichols and gotten sick. Should have known better. How she responds to labels. Gibson is kind of overemploying the paragraph break as an extra character, as a long, dramatic break in the inner narrative. But he keeps somehow missing the telegrammic beat which just makes it stand out like the gimmick it is, makes him out like a drunk DeLillo who can no longer walk straight across the line. There's ideas he overemploys as well. Mirror-world. Took a duck in the face. I kept picturing him standing next to my chair as I was reading, pointing out passages and saying: \"The mirror-world represents the clash of nationalist and globalist forces. GET IT!?\" Yes, William, \"I would patiently explain to him, after composedly closing the book on my lap. You've mentioned this before. But an interesting thing happens once Gibson gets the plot machine finally in motion, when all gears are greased: he drops the mirror-world stuff, largely drops the stylistic quirks, and just focuses on what he does best: zeroing in on the discomfiting affinities of technology - what it hath wrought. Here he goes into Pynchon-territory, and this apophenia thing he's got going on struck me as a great summary of Pynchon's whole oeuvre: seeing patterns in random noise. But maybe this is literature: an endless exercise in creating sense where there is none. A narrative is simply an opportunistic selection of anecdotes often meant to illustrate something, some moral or some universal truth of human behavior. But then as we well know, for each of those there is a counter example, often forged from the same data (i.e. life lived), simply selected differently, with a different purpose. What makes Pynchon's treatment of this theme more interesting than Gibson's, I think (though Gibson does just fine), is that the former always keep you guessing throughout. Is it apophenia indeed, is the whole thing a ruse, the author taking you for a ride? Pynchon seems generally to be toying with the idea of suspension of disbelief. You are choosing, he is saying, to listen to me, author, narrator, and I will promise to take you on a ride. But since it's clear that I'm telling you a fiction, I do not feel bothered to close in the gaps, let it be clear that the gaps are gaps to me as well. Pynchon is just slicing off a possible perspective of a possible life, a possible way to read data, to see a particular face in the moon. Gibson, on the other hand, without giving too much away, is grasping at all the threads he threw out at the start, reeling them back in, and knotting them up. He gives you that resolve that you thirst for. Yet as with many things you thirst for, having had them leaves you strangely empty surprisingly quickly. Better to keep some narratival balls up in the air, like little swords of Damocles' that follow readers about, and remind them every so often of a book they once read. ...more Pattern Recognition is a great book. Tightly woven plot, interesting characters, superbly written. It's Gibson at his best and handily better than Neuromancer. It's less far future speculation and more a look into the future we have right now. Part of the way into this I google image searched for the Apple Studio Display and Cube to jog my memory on what Gibson was clearly so enamored with--for computing objects they have a high profile role in the beginning part of the book. That lead to me ser Pattern Recognition is a great book. Tightly woven plot, interesting characters, superbly written. It's Gibson at his best and handily better than Neuromancer. It's less far future speculation and more a look into the future we have right now. Part of the way into this I google image searched for the Apple Studio Display and Cube to jog my memory on what Gibson was clearly so enamored with--for computing objects they have a high profile role in the beginning part of the book. That lead to me seriously considering picking up an the earliest model Cinema Display, which used the plastic casing like the Studio Display while keeping a respectable 1080p resolution. That course of action would surely require daisy-chaining adapters to work with more modern computers; yet, I'm still thinking about it, If only because there's something very pleasingly tactile about the plastic machines that the aluminum just hasn't done for me. If they still made those plastic cases for the macbooks I'd probably have the black plastic version and would take a lot of joy putting my black moleskine notebook (art editions, less bleedthrough from the other pages, although you get fewer of them) right next to it. I've also been reconsidering my wardrobe since reading even a few pages of Pattern Recognition will make you realize you haven't put any thought into it. The copy I read is a paperback that has \"Uncorrected Proof for Limited Distribution\" stamped on the front. Dave, gave it to me in exchange for a signed copy I found in a used bookstore in Chicago that was addressed to \"James\". The bookstore in question thanked me for my honesty when I told them it was signed and still sold it to me for something like 6 dollars. I'm not sure how Dave came by his copy, the uncorrected proof. Although I'm sure there's a whole story there too. The words inside were the same--although the fonts differ, I believe--but the story of how the copy I ended up reading landed in my hands fits with the theme of the book very well. Value is assigned in the story and the variation, not in the physical makeup of the goods or the raw information in it. ...more", "Title": "Pattern Recognition"},
