{"Comments": "\"<+++>Arielle: Immortal Awakening</+++> (<---B>Immortal Rapture, #1</---B>)\" by <---A>Lilian Roberts</---A> is a beautifully written paranormal romance. The book starts with 16 year old Arielle and two of her friends experimenting with psychic powers and mediumship and opening themselves up to the world of spirits. As the three school friends come back from their summer break they encounter more of that world, some of it through the men they fall for. Sadly not all of this is good. The characters of Arielle's friends are well chosen a \"<+++>Arielle: Immortal Awakening</+++> (Immortal Rapture, #1)\" by Lilian Roberts is a beautifully written paranormal romance. The book starts with 16 year old Arielle and two of her friends experimenting with psychic powers and mediumship and opening themselves up to the world of spirits. As the three school friends come back from their summer break they encounter more of that world, some of it through the men they fall for. Sadly not all of this is good. The characters of Arielle's friends are well chosen as they allow the plot to spread out and to explore the experiences from slightly different angles. On her vacation in France Arielle herself falls for Sebastian,<---M> an immortal</---M>, which becomes the main story. The book incorprates a lot of supernatural / paranormal elements, e.g. witch craft and a place between this world and the next. With its wide ranging themes the book stands out from one trick ponies and books limited to only one idea. This is a wonderful and accomplished fantasy novel with a truly beautiful love story at its heart. ...more Arielle is your typical young woman who is worried about finding a man who will sweep her off her feet as well as getting the perfect tan.<---F> Well, not so typically actually</---F>. She is empathic and she and her friends have a flair for attracting paranormal activity. Her character is very believable, and it is easy to identify with her method of thinking. She has little experience in life and love and comes across true to life. The structure of the story is well written. The pace is fairly quick, spanni Arielle is your typical young woman who is worried about finding a man who will sweep her off her feet as well as getting the perfect tan. Well, not so typically actually. She is empathic and she and her friends have a flair for attracting paranormal activity. Her character is very believable, and it is easy to identify with her method of thinking. She has little experience in life and love and comes across true to life. The structure of the story is well written. The pace is fairly quick, spanning years at first as the reader is presented with Arielle's childhood. As a teen, she and her friends have a special encounter with the spirit world, and they play a vital role in the happiness of two young lovers. During her college years, Arielle finally meets Sebastian, the love of her life. He is an immortal who lives in a castle and his been searching for his true love for centuries. It wouldn't be fair to leave out any mention of his first wife, Annabel, who has been plaguing him since their annulment. You have to feel something for a woman so jealous she would pursue her ex for over 400 years! I enjoyed the amount of description that was presented in this story, especially the beach scenes. I could truly feel as if I was walking right next to Arielle, soaking up the sun. There was one portion where the girls encounter the leader of a group of occult bad guys who practice human sacrifice. They were intriguing and would make a good story on their own. There is quite a lot of story packed into this one book. There are many interesting tidbits that caught my attention, but they were not the main focus of this story. It doesn't feel overly dense, however, and the storyline is easy to follow. Fans of paranormal romance will love this one. ...more I loved it. Three young coeds spend their summer holidays looking for that special love that will change their lives. Their lives unfold captivatingly; the twists and turns in the story keep you anxious to find the outcome. Arielle meets a young man in the South of France and falls deeply in love. Sebastian is stunningly beautiful, and can read her mind. He follows Arielle to Brighton where he divulges his true Identity. Arielle has a hard time with his explanation that he is not a vampire but a I loved it. Three young coeds spend their summer holidays looking for that special love that will change their lives. Their lives unfold captivatingly; the twists and turns in the story keep you anxious to find the outcome. Arielle meets a young man in the South of France and falls deeply in love. Sebastian is stunningly beautiful, and can read her mind. He follows Arielle to Brighton where he divulges his true Identity. Arielle has a hard time with his explanation that he is not a vampire but an immortal soul that has lived for over 500 years looking for his soul mate, and that he is deeply in love with her. She is scared to death but at the end she knows that this is the man of her dreams and there is nothing that will stop her from being with him. Sebastian was married in the 1500s to Annabel, a woman that his parents chose for him. He never loved her, and he never consummated the marriage. When he left her, and she vowed to follow him through eternity and kill any woman that he will fall in love with. Sebastian has several frivolous affairs though the centuries but they are not who he is looking for and he leaves them scorned and angry. Annabel knows that Sebastian is deeply in love with Arielle and she is going to take revenge. She finds every woman that has been scorned by Sebastian and starts a scary war against Arielle. She is going to kill Arielle and anyone else who gets in her way. The story unfolds nicely keeping the interest high. The three coeds find the men that will turn their world upside down in this volume. I am eager to follow their lives into the next book. The cliffhanger at the end of this story is wonderful and I am looking forward to the next volume in the series. ...more I recieved a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. (SPOILER ALERT!) First off, let me just say that this was the cutest story I have ever read!! I really did love this book! It did seem unrealistic in some parts, but other than that this book was amazing! Arielle: Arielle was my favorite character in this book! I did think something was going to come up about her powers to feel what others feel, but she was overall my favorite character. I was surprised she hasn't told her best f I recieved a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. (SPOILER ALERT!) First off, let me just say that this was the cutest story I have ever read!! I really did love this book! It did seem unrealistic in some parts, but other than that this book was amazing! Arielle: Arielle was my favorite character in this book! I did think something was going to come up about her powers to feel what others feel, but she was overall my favorite character. I was surprised she hasn't told her best friends or Sebastion about her powers (I am hoping that is in the next book ;) Eva: Eva was awesome! I wish I had her powers, to see in the fture and talk with ghosts is amazing! It is amazing how all 3 best friends ended up all having a lover at the same time :D Gabrielle: I honestly thought all three of them were going to have powers, not just Eva and Arielle but Gabrielle was one of those \"boyish\" girls :) I was pretty shocked on what happened between her and Marcus, and his past just creeped me out! O.o Annabel: Get over it girl! She is so obsessed on getting revenge on Sebastion that (I think she was the one..) who turned Sebastion as an immortal! I can't see what devious plans she has next! :) Sebastion: Man, what I wouldn't give to have a guy like Sebastion! The only thing that I felt weird about him, was when he ended all his calls, emails with Arielle saying \"Miss me\" all the time. I kept thinking that since he has powers, that when he says miss me, he is able to persuade her. He is seriously the jealous type and I find that cute :) Thank you so much Lilian for allowed me to read and review Arielle: Immortal Awakening. I am looking forward to the next book. ...more Empowerment Projected in a Uniquely Feminine Way Arielle Immortal Awakening surprises at every twist and turn in the narrative. Fresh young characters people a cleverly constructed historical, emotional, temporal and otherworldly landscape. Unexpected events often shock, yet the main actors remain safely cocooned in the stable home environments nurturing them into adult life. Strong family values permeate the story in a pleasant supportive way as the young people manage both threatening and posit Empowerment Projected in a Uniquely Feminine Way Arielle Immortal Awakening surprises at every twist and turn in the narrative. Fresh young characters people a cleverly constructed historical, emotional, temporal and otherworldly landscape. Unexpected events often shock, yet the main actors remain safely cocooned in the stable home environments nurturing them into adult life. Strong family values permeate the story in a pleasant supportive way as the young people manage both threatening and positive happenings, using their native and quasi super-hero abilities while all the time relying on the calm advice of caring role models. Only a rare talent such as that of author Lilian Roberts could get into the emotional and intellectual mind of late teen and early 20s young people so intimately. Her series piqued my interest as a teaching professional working with autistic young people because the special qualities of her characters could be considered comparable to those of my students. I find her insight into the uniqueness, which she calls immortality, contains elements of autistic exceptionality. On another plane, her books present a smoldering, heartwarming evolution of romantic sentiments in young adults. The author\u2019s progressively more involving description of both the intellectual and physical evolution of attraction necessary for swooning into loving embrace warmed my heart. Her female characters project themselves in the narrative as impressive models of empowerment for young people, especially young women. I will suggest this series as reading in my upper level classes next year. Wonderful story. ...more ~I received a free copy of this book for an honest and unbiased review. In no way has this altered my opinion on the book. I normally stay away from paranormal fantasy novels because there are a lot on the market that are not well thought out. This isn\u2019t one of them. Arielle\u2019s story, from the beginning, is well rounded and the reader gets to know her very well throughout the book. Each girl\u2019s gifts intrigued me and they weren\u2019t the usual ones that paranormal characters seem to contain. I especial ~I received a free copy of this book for an honest and unbiased review. In no way has this altered my opinion on the book. I normally stay away from paranormal fantasy novels because there are a lot on the market that are not well thought out. This isn\u2019t one of them. Arielle\u2019s story, from the beginning, is well rounded and the reader gets to know her very well throughout the book. Each girl\u2019s gifts intrigued me and they weren\u2019t the usual ones that paranormal characters seem to contain. I especially like the fact that they had to actually work at controlling their gifts and learning about them. It seems most characters in other books just know exactly what to do and when to do it immediately, from birth. To me that\u2019s boring. It was also nice to see the background on all three girls and get to know them in the first few chapters with the synopsis of their lives. The relationships they built throughout the book were heartfelt and captivated me. I think Sebastian is one of my favorite characters, honestly. His love for Arielle is entrancing and really had me feeling for his character. I would definitely recommend this book to readers. ...more I highly recommend this book to lovers of paranormal romance. Girl-next-door Arielle meets and falls in love with the dashing, beautiful Sebastian who has been 27 years old for centuries. He's an immortal and he comes with baggage. A jealous ex has vowed to torment Sebastian for eternity, but all he cares about is keeping Arielle safe. Arielle is sweet and brave. She is in love with love and wants only to be with her own Mr. Darcy. Arielle appears to be just a regular girl, but she is an empathi I highly recommend this book to lovers of paranormal romance. Girl-next-door Arielle meets and falls in love with the dashing, beautiful Sebastian who has been 27 years old for centuries. He's an immortal and he comes with baggage. A jealous ex has vowed to torment Sebastian for eternity, but all he cares about is keeping Arielle safe. Arielle is sweet and brave. She is in love with love and wants only to be with her own Mr. Darcy. Arielle appears to be just a regular girl, but she is an empathic and can read some people's minds. She's a very interesting character and steadfastly loyal to Sebastian, her family and her two best friends. The friendships between the three girls are inspiring and I love how they remain an important part of the story even when the women meet exciting men. It's refreshing and fun to read about immortals who are not fairies or vampires, yet have their own rich mythology. Pick up book 1 and you'll definitely be hooked on this series. ...more Arielle Immortal Awakenings is a quick, fun beach (or blizzard!) read. Great story line and interesting characters. More than a romance, I was happy to discover a touch of paranormal with a splash of thriller thrown in for good measure. I finished this book in two days because I couldn\u2019t wait to find out what was going to happen between Arielle and Sebastian. Will they finally sleep together?!?!? Of course, the author left me hanging at the end, not knowing exactly what\u2019s in store for the star c Arielle Immortal Awakenings is a quick, fun beach (or blizzard!) read. Great story line and interesting characters. More than a romance, I was happy to discover a touch of paranormal with a splash of thriller thrown in for good measure. I finished this book in two days because I couldn\u2019t wait to find out what was going to happen between Arielle and Sebastian. Will they finally sleep together?!?!? Of course, the author left me hanging at the end, not knowing exactly what\u2019s in store for the star crossed lovers. Guess I\u2019m off to pick up the second book in the series! Well played Mrs. Roberts. Well played. Would highly recommend for anyone looking for an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon! ...more I thoroughly enjoyed reading this amazing book. Mystery and magic with romance and much adventure created a very interesting story line which kept me reading on to the very end. Lilian writes with passion and clear description.The characters were amazingly interesting. I look forward to the next book in the series. A lovely talented author and look forward to reading more in her series. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this fantastic book! Mystery and magic blended with romance and adventure created a very interesting plot and I kept on turning pages - I read it in only two days! The characters were fascinating and I am looking forward for the next book in the series... I don\u2019t think you can help but LOVE the characters in this story! They are rich, vibrant and yet down-to-earth. Arielle is a girl who believes in true love and is looking for her \u201cMr. Darcy\u201d. She turns down most dates because she is looking for that immediate SPARK. Lilian Roberts has an almost poetic way of writing, I\u2019m not sure how else to describe it. There was this lovely flowing way about the words that I haven\u2019t seen in some time. Eva, Gabrielle, and Arielle are three girls that have been I don\u2019t think you can help but LOVE the characters in this story! They are rich, vibrant and yet down-to-earth. Arielle is a girl who believes in true love and is looking for her \u201cMr. Darcy\u201d. She turns down most dates because she is looking for that immediate SPARK. Lilian Roberts has an almost poetic way of writing, I\u2019m not sure how else to describe it. There was this lovely flowing way about the words that I haven\u2019t seen in some time. Eva, Gabrielle, and Arielle are three girls that have been best friends since they were little. This is a paranormal romance with some unique powers and immortals (no vampires or werewolves). When Arielle first meets Sebastian, she is both scared of him and intrigued by him. He is desperate to get to know more about her, but he has secrets\u2026\u2026and he has a past that is trying to destroy his chance at happiness. This book is definite MUST read and you don\u2019t have to love paranormal stories to read it. I have always gone toward contemporary romance, but I am really glad this one was offered to me. I CAN\u2019T WAIT to start on the next book (Arielle: Immortal Seduction)!!! Don\u2019t take my word for it, grab book 1 and see if you aren\u2019t grabbing up book 2 in no time!! You can read more on my blog http://joecoolreview.com ...more Being an avid fan of young adult paranormal romance I have to say I LOVED this book! It had romance, drama, espionage, witch craft, psychic phenomenon, and awesome plot twists. IT HAS IT ALL! The story starts out by letting you get to know Arielle and her friends Gabrielle (Gabby) and Eva. They are all special in their own ways and two of them has psychic abilities. They are all different and completely devoted to each other. As the story progresses the girls find love, lose love and find it aga Being an avid fan of young adult paranormal romance I have to say I LOVED this book! It had romance, drama, espionage, witch craft, psychic phenomenon, and awesome plot twists. IT HAS IT ALL! The story starts out by letting you get to know Arielle and her friends Gabrielle (Gabby) and Eva. They are all special in their own ways and two of them has psychic abilities. They are all different and completely devoted to each other. As the story progresses the girls find love, lose love and find it again. Their perfect mates are special in their own way some are even immortal and possess powers of their own. As they continue to grow into their own person they also find deeper love connections. Have you ever wanted to find your soul mate and wondered what it would be like to meet them and fall madly in love? Have you wanted your own Mr. Darcy? Read this book. These characters are real, they face real problems and overcome obstacles of supernatural and realistic proportions which makes it an awesome fantasy. One such obstacle is making a long distance relationship work. I love how the author, Lilian Roberts addressed this and made it work. I highly recommend this book to YA, NA, and Adult readers of the paranormal / fantasy dramas. ...more I really enjoyed this book,It has some paranormal,romance and suspense. I read this book in one sitting because I couldn't wait to find out what happens next. I loved Arielle and Sebastian's story, I also loved how Arielle's friends Gabrielle and Eva's story. I can't wait to read the next book so I can find out what happens next with the Arielle, Sebastian,and the rest of the characters in the book. If you like romance, suspense, and paranormal then you will love this book. A Review copy was prov I really enjoyed this book,It has some paranormal,romance and suspense. I read this book in one sitting because I couldn't wait to find out what happens next. I loved Arielle and Sebastian's story, I also loved how Arielle's friends Gabrielle and Eva's story. I can't wait to read the next book so I can find out what happens next with the Arielle, Sebastian,and the rest of the characters in the book. If you like romance, suspense, and paranormal then you will love this book. A Review copy was provided to me in exchange for a fair and honest review. The free book held no determination on my personal review. ...more This book was a delightful read. The author blends romance with the paranormal element well. I immediately fell in love with Sebastian Gaulle and his overwhelming, all-consuming love for Arielle. I very much enjoyed the close-knit relationship between Arielle and her two best friends, as well as Arielle\u2019s relationship with her family and friends from home. I can\u2019t wait to see what is in store for Arielle and the people she loves in the rest of the series. I highly recommend this book for paranorm This book was a delightful read. The author blends romance with the paranormal element well. I immediately fell in love with Sebastian Gaulle and his overwhelming, all-consuming love for Arielle. I very much enjoyed the close-knit relationship between Arielle and her two best friends, as well as Arielle\u2019s relationship with her family and friends from home. I can\u2019t wait to see what is in store for Arielle and the people she loves in the rest of the series. I highly recommend this book for paranormal romance fans and hopeless romantics of any kind. You will be spellbound by the true and undying love that unfolds in this story. ...more *I received a free copy of this book from the author in exchange for an honest review.* The overall idea for this book was a good one. I was excited to start reading, but once I did all I was left with was a feeling of confusion. I feel the author tried to put way too many elements into the story. The plot went in too many directions, too many times and those twists never really got resolved. I felt the pace of the story was slow and I also felt like I was wandering willy nilly through the story *I received a free copy of this book from the author in exchange for an honest review.* The overall idea for this book was a good one. I was excited to start reading, but once I did all I was left with was a feeling of confusion. I feel the author tried to put way too many elements into the story. The plot went in too many directions, too many times and those twists never really got resolved. I felt the pace of the story was slow and I also felt like I was wandering willy nilly through the story with no real purpose. There were more than a few times where the storyline changed completely and none of those changes really held my interest. I was quite often left wondering where the story was going but finding I didn't really care. I found myself not really liking Arielle. She seemed silly, a little shallow and quite a few times I found myself literally rolling my eyes at her. I felt the interactions between Arielle and her 2 best friends were very \"school girlish,\" and her relationship with Sebastian quite juvenile. I didn't really feel a connection between them. Everything in the story seemed to be too perfect, everyone too agreeable and too understanding. The ending left much to be desired for me and overall the story just didn't work for me. *This review is done in conjunction with Nerd Girl Official. For more information on our reviews, please visit our Fansite: www.facebook.com/NerdGirl.Ng * ...more Following the friendship of three girls - two of which are gifted - Arielle Immortal Awakening is an interesting and sometimes deep, paranormal tale. Arielle can hear the thoughts of certain people while her friend Eva has paranormal powers of her own. Along with their other friend, Gabby, the three embark on a series of adventure involving witchcraft and the dead. The book is told over several years and is a slow burner but has enough intrigue to keep the reader hooked. I also really liked the Following the friendship of three girls - two of which are gifted - Arielle Immortal Awakening is an interesting and sometimes deep, paranormal tale. Arielle can hear the thoughts of certain people while her friend Eva has paranormal powers of her own. Along with their other friend, Gabby, the three embark on a series of adventure involving witchcraft and the dead. The book is told over several years and is a slow burner but has enough intrigue to keep the reader hooked. I also really liked the characters - especially the girls - as they all had their own, unique personalities which were portrayed very well. Their reactions to different situations, their moods and their thoughts are conveyed brilliantly through the narrative. My only critique about the book is that at times the story feels a little too safe. It would have been interesting to have seen the protagonists in a little more danger. That said, this is a solid story with good characters, great narrative and shining moments. ...more What a wonderful story about three young women, how their friendships grow over time, some of their unusual quirks, and their search for the love of their dreams. Arielle and Sebastian are a wonderful couple and while the are the primary focus of the story, all three girls have their story told concurrently. This is the first of 3 books that have been published, and a fourth is in the works. I received a free copy of this book in return for an honest review. It was so good I bought the other two What a wonderful story about three young women, how their friendships grow over time, some of their unusual quirks, and their search for the love of their dreams. Arielle and Sebastian are a wonderful couple and while the are the primary focus of the story, all three girls have their story told concurrently. This is the first of 3 books that have been published, and a fourth is in the works. I received a free copy of this book in return for an honest review. It was so good I bought the other two books and read all three in one weekend. I can't wait for the next book to be released! ...more Arielle: Immortal Awakening the first book of a series by Lilian Roberts tells the story of a woman named Arielle Lloyd living in a town in Brighton. Eventually becomes romantically involved with Sebastian Gaulle an immortal. I have to admit I found myself enjoying these characters presented in this book. They're appealing and interesting. Eventually being involved with Sebastian, Arielle is threatening from something from his past, (the favorite part of this book in my opinion, and made me what Arielle: Immortal Awakening the first book of a series by Lilian Roberts tells the story of a woman named Arielle Lloyd living in a town in Brighton. Eventually becomes romantically involved with Sebastian Gaulle an immortal. I have to admit I found myself enjoying these characters presented in this book. They're appealing and interesting. Eventually being involved with Sebastian, Arielle is threatening from something from his past, (the favorite part of this book in my opinion, and made me what to read the rest of the series. A remarkable, five star start. ...more Fun read - definitely a page turner - I read it in a weekend. I'm a sucker for a bit of romance and mystery, and book captivated me from the very beginning. If you're looking for a story the will keep you entertained, this one is a good one - I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series. Arielle: Immortal Awakening is the first in the Arielle series by Lilian Roberts. I received a copy of this book from the publisher and author for an honest review- through Goodreads. Arielle and her two best friends since childhood each have paranormal gifts or leanings. Some are at peace with it and have family support, and others are more private and want to just live normally. Now in college, Arielle and her friends, Eve and Gabby, are adjusting to their new independence. They have close frien Arielle: Immortal Awakening is the first in the Arielle series by Lilian Roberts. I received a copy of this book from the publisher and author for an honest review- through Goodreads. Arielle and her two best friends since childhood each have paranormal gifts or leanings. Some are at peace with it and have family support, and others are more private and want to just live normally. Now in college, Arielle and her friends, Eve and Gabby, are adjusting to their new independence. They have close friends and date, but Arielle, back home after her freshman year, meets Sebastian on the beach. The instant they meet, they both know there is something special between them. But, Sebastian has a few really big secrets and right away breaks a promise he made to Arielle. Hurt and angry, yet mystified as to why Sebastian pulled a disappearing trick, Arielle begins doing a little research on Sebastian. What she discovers shocks her. Sebastian has a wife, and he's lived for centuries. Although, he is married in name only, his wife's sole purpose is to make Sebastian's life a living hell. This means Arielle is in danger. The only thing Arielle knows for sure is that she is in love with Sebastian and no matter what she has to do, she will fight to keep their relationship for all eternity. First of all, while reading a few reviews on this title on Goodreads, I never heard anything about this novel being YA. In my opinion this book fits right into that genre. So, to be honest, I don't really read a great deal of YA. I have two grown children, so I'm maybe not the best judge in this particular case. For me, the story was a bit disjointed. We move quickly through the girls' childhood, then to their lives in high school and then college. These are good girls that don't get into a lot of trouble and have good relationships with their parents. So, the first part of the book simply introduces us to the characters. Then we meet Sebastian. For me we never got much of an explanation as to how Sebastian obtained his immortality. We know his wife was believed responsible, but this part is glossed over. I did like the fact that Sebastian was not a vampire. This avoided a lot of messy details about how he manages to get blood etc. Plus, it's been done a million times over. When Arielle learns about Sebastian's immortality and the danger she may be in because of his wife, she still behaves carelessly by not taking the precautions Sebastian provided for her. Once the danger becomes real and Arielle learns her lesson, the story switches gears yet again. Sebastian's friends inform him of a work related crisis and he must leave to take care of the situation. I'm not really sure why this part was that important to the book and I sort of zoned out for some of it. The separation gives Arielle time to do some thinking and the story leaves us guessing what her big decision is, although we are pretty sure we know what it is. The romance is superb, especially for the age group the book would appeal to. There is no actual SC, just the suggestion that the lovers fool around and avoid actually having sex. So, the focus is more on romantic love. Sebastian, is absolutely dreamy. He would be every girls fantasy. Despite their trials, Arielle is a lucky girl. This book would be excellent for older teens and young adults. There is a paranormal element, but nothing too dark or violent. I liked the romance and adventure. The book was too slow in some places and too rushed in others. However, I think it was an enjoyable read and I give it B-/C+. ...more Paranormal Romance books are not my favorite genre of Young Adult fiction. I think this was because I read the Twilight Saga and I wasn't really fond of the books. I prefered the movies. But that's another thing. I got Arielle: Immortal Awakening for free in exchange for an honest review. I wasn't sure what to expect when I started on this book. I had some other books that were in my to be read list, so I didn't really know when to start. I had promised to put up the review at least in September, Paranormal Romance books are not my favorite genre of Young Adult fiction. I think this was because I read the Twilight Saga and I wasn't really fond of the books. I prefered the movies. But that's another thing. I got Arielle: Immortal Awakening for free in exchange for an honest review. I wasn't sure what to expect when I started on this book. I had some other books that were in my to be read list, so I didn't really know when to start. I had promised to put up the review at least in September, so that was my goal. In the beginning it was hard to get into the book, but after the first 50 pages, the words started the flow and I actually got excited to read further in the book. That's why I really want to read the next book, especially after that ending, you really want to read the next part, because you just need to know what is going to happen next. In Arielle: Immortal Awakening, we follow college student Arielle and her friends, Gabrielle and Eva. Arielle is able to read their friends mind and some other selected people. She can't control whose mind to read, it just sort of happens. Eva has gotten ino the paranormal world, with spells and other paranormal happenings. Arielle is afraid of telling her friends about her 'powers', but Eva does take their friends into trust and tells them about her 'powers'. One summer, Arielle who spends her time in France, meets Sebastian, a really nice and handsome guy who is in love with her, but she is yet to be in great danger. Lilian Roberts has a way of writing words as if they were poetry. It just flows. Some of the words I hadn't even heard of before. That made it a little hard for me sometimes, but besides that it was wonderful to read and I would highly recommend this to anyone who is a paranormal fan. Arielle falls head over heels in love with Sebastian, who has lived on this earth for centuries (I had to think about Twilight here, I'm sorry). Sebastian sort of creeped me out by him constantly saying \u201cI love you\u201d and \u201cMiss me\u201d when they were ending the conversation or just sometimes out of the blue. I mean, I had the feeling they had been dating for a week and they were already saying \u201cI love you\u201d, which to me sounded a little unrealistic. Besides that, the \u201cmiss me\u201d thing creeped me out. What was he trying to do? Persuade her into loving him? The book is rich in character description, you can't help but to love the characters in this book. I really felt attached to Gabrielle and Eva and also to Arielle, of course. On top of all that, the cover is just beautiful! I really love the bright colors and the castle in the background, it actually makes you think it's a historical fiction, but it's not. Kudos for the beautiful cover designs. I think I would make something like this if I were to publish a book. I need to read the next part of the book, and then probably the next part, and the next part. I loved the book a lot and I highly recommend it if you are into paranormal young adult fiction and if not, you should just read it as well, because it's not quite a well known book, it should just get a little more known. ...more Arielle and her two best friends, Gabrielle and Eva, have grown up together. Now, as college students, they have a few paranormal secrets that keep coming up in their lives. The girls each have gifts, often scaring them, and they are trying to learn how to cope with them together. This year, while they are on their separate summer holidays with their families, their lives get really interesting. They find new loves they have always been waiting for. Sebastian, an Immortal in the South of France w Arielle and her two best friends, Gabrielle and Eva, have grown up together. Now, as college students, they have a few paranormal secrets that keep coming up in their lives. The girls each have gifts, often scaring them, and they are trying to learn how to cope with them together. This year, while they are on their separate summer holidays with their families, their lives get really interesting. They find new loves they have always been waiting for. Sebastian, an Immortal in the South of France where Arielle is for her summer holiday, knows without a doubt he has finally found his soulmate after centuries of looking. Now, he just has to figure out how to explain his life to her without scaring her off. Unfortunately, his former wife Annabel, has very different ideas. She will never let Sebastian go; he is very afraid that he will lose Arielle to Annabel's revenge on him for not loving her. Arielle is sure that after all this time turning down the offers of other guys, she has finally found the one man she has been waiting for. She is devastated when he disappears without a word, and she has to return to school. Of course, she turns to her friends back at school for comfort. However, before long, Sebastian is back. Now she has to face the reality of his life, or give him up forever. I thought this was a great storyline, and I really did enjoy it. The only complaint that I have with the book is I didn't feel like the characters were very believable. It was hard to relate to them because one minute they were terrified and sobbing, and the next they were going out for the night. I would have liked the characters to be a little more realistic so I could really feel the emotion in the story. I would like to read the second book in the series. I think that as the story and the characters are joined again, it may help everything fall into place a little more. This is pretty common in a first book in a series and I will enjoy seeing these characters come to life a bit more. ...more I received this book through Goodreads making connections in exchange for a honest review. When I first began this book I was skeptical the beginning seem a little forced. The girls lives were perfect and the writing didn't seem to flow but as I got into the story I really enjoyed the read. I love the idea of waiting to find your Darcy. Arielle a young reserved woman turns down men looking for her blueprint her Darcy. Each year she goes to France on summer vacation and as she is about to begin her I received this book through Goodreads making connections in exchange for a honest review. When I first began this book I was skeptical the beginning seem a little forced. The girls lives were perfect and the writing didn't seem to flow but as I got into the story I really enjoyed the read. I love the idea of waiting to find your Darcy. Arielle a young reserved woman turns down men looking for her blueprint her Darcy. Each year she goes to France on summer vacation and as she is about to begin her third year at university she meets Sebastian. Sebastian the amazing and sweet Sebastian. he is quite the gentleman. Suave and sophisticated and has a way of dazzling Arielle. For the first time Sebastian is in love and he is scared she will leave when she finds out the secret he has. Fortunately Arielle is a extraordinary young woman who is understanding and loves him as well. They have many obstacles to overcome and in the process her life is endangered. Sebastian shows his love and stays by his side until she is better. At the same time Sebastian's company has issues and arielle is as patient as she can be but does get petulant. this is a wonderful love story and ends with the reader wondering if her big decision is what Sebastian is hoping and also if Sebastian's past is going to hurt them. I don't know what will happen but I can't wait to see where the next book takes us. ...more Arielle Lloyd, a young college student, searching for her ideal Darcy and hasn't found him yet. Arielle is hiding a secret from her best friends that she can hear special people's thoughts and she's afraid of what they'll say. Arielle's two best friends Gabrielle (Gabby) and Eva are also searching for love. In their Junior year, each of them discover love in ways none of them ever expected. For Arielle meeting Sebastian Gaulle is dream come true for her because he's her Darcy. Sebastian Gaulle i Arielle Lloyd, a young college student, searching for her ideal Darcy and hasn't found him yet. Arielle is hiding a secret from her best friends that she can hear special people's thoughts and she's afraid of what they'll say. Arielle's two best friends Gabrielle (Gabby) and Eva are also searching for love. In their Junior year, each of them discover love in ways none of them ever expected. For Arielle meeting Sebastian Gaulle is dream come true for her because he's her Darcy. Sebastian Gaulle is an Immortal and lives a lonely existence until meeting Arielle. While Arielle brings light and love to Sebastian's world there is darkness too. Darkness in the form of Annabel, who will not leave Sebastian alone or accept that it's over between them. Sebastian searches for a way to remove Annabel from his life with little success. Will Arielle admit her secret? Will three friends find love at last? Will Sebastian tell Arielle the truth about him? Will Annabel give up? Your answers await you in Arielle Immortal Awakening. I found the concept of this book to be fascinating on many levels. I also loved that the characters genuinely cared for one another. I also enjoyed that each of the characters had their own ideal love match which was truly unique. I thought the story was well written. It was a gotta turn the page faster kind of book for me. I look forward to the next book in the series. ...more I was so involved by Lilian Roberts\u2019 elegant and poetic writing style that I read this novel in two nights. Everything is about emotions. Lilian\u2019s world is different and this book is so original that I would wish that everybody would get a look at it. In some way, I felt it as a really long poem. If the author released a collection of her poetries I would be the first reader of them. I enjoyed this stylish paranormal love story. This is a genre that I usually like, but I appreciated how Lilian was I was so involved by Lilian Roberts\u2019 elegant and poetic writing style that I read this novel in two nights. Everything is about emotions. Lilian\u2019s world is different and this book is so original that I would wish that everybody would get a look at it. In some way, I felt it as a really long poem. If the author released a collection of her poetries I would be the first reader of them. I enjoyed this stylish paranormal love story. This is a genre that I usually like, but I appreciated how Lilian was able to add new and different components to it. I believe Lilian is right: love has no limits and it can defeats even death. ...more I recieved this book from the author in exchange for an honest review.This book follows the lives of three friends, Eve, Gabby, and Arielle from childhood to college. As I was reading it felt like these 3 girls were from another time frame, not the present day. They never seemed to act their age. They either acted ridiculously matronly or immature. Even the dialogue between them and their friends felt forced and contrived. Arielle meets the man of her dreams, Sebastian, and the story just become I recieved this book from the author in exchange for an honest review.This book follows the lives of three friends, Eve, Gabby, and Arielle from childhood to college. As I was reading it felt like these 3 girls were from another time frame, not the present day. They never seemed to act their age. They either acted ridiculously matronly or immature. Even the dialogue between them and their friends felt forced and contrived. Arielle meets the man of her dreams, Sebastian, and the story just becomes choppy. I lost total interest when Sebastian had to deal with his business, and then the book just ends. So I have no idea what Arielle's big decision is, and I'm not sure I ever will. ...more I love it This was one of the worst books I've ever read. Do not pick this up. I honestly would not have finished if I wasn't reading this book for a challenge and needed the points. First of all, the writing is absolutely terrible. When I was in high school my teacher would always be like \"when you're writing show not tell.\" I felt like this book was all tell. I have no idea how it was published and how other people actually enjoy it. Basically it was so bland. Just he said she said that without any good This was one of the worst books I've ever read. Do not pick this up. I honestly would not have finished if I wasn't reading this book for a challenge and needed the points. First of all, the writing is absolutely terrible. When I was in high school my teacher would always be like \"when you're writing show not tell.\" I felt like this book was all tell. I have no idea how it was published and how other people actually enjoy it. Basically it was so bland. Just he said she said that without any good descriptions. There was barely any dialogue and when there was it was so forced. Arielle can hear people's thoughts but its described as \"Gabrielle had very dark thoughts.\" What were those thoughts? Who knows but apparently it was dark. The story would be much better if she just showed and not shoved the generic phrases down our throats. \"They were intrigued and frightened.\" I can't even't explain how much the writing bothers me. Then there's the plot and the characters. Absolutely instalove. Like she meets him for the first time, doesn't even know his name and already loves him with all her heart. Like I get attraction, but that's just bullshit. He knows her for four days and he wants to marry and spend the rest of his life with her. We learn that Seb is immortal, which is basically a vamp but not. They drink \"red salve\" and need a ring to protect them from daylight, they can move fast, never get sick, blah blah. Basically they are invincible. How fucking boring is that. Oh an the writer insists, not vampire still. I am rolling my eyes. ...more 5 sweet stars! <3 Favorite quotes: \"Arielle had the strong feeling that she had found the man of her dreams. She wanted him so much, she felt she would give anything to keep him for the rest of her life...\" \"For centuries he had walked the earth looking for the girl of his dreams. He had waited for so long that he was starting to believe that it would never happen for him, and now it had. She was the girl he wanted to be with for eternity...\" \"Arielle's image filled his thoughts as extreme excite 5 sweet stars! <3 Favorite quotes: \"Arielle had the strong feeling that she had found the man of her dreams. She wanted him so much, she felt she would give anything to keep him for the rest of her life...\" \"For centuries he had walked the earth looking for the girl of his dreams. He had waited for so long that he was starting to believe that it would never happen for him, and now it had. She was the girl he wanted to be with for eternity...\" \"Arielle's image filled his thoughts as extreme excitement and warmth took over his body and made him smile with complete bliss. He had fallen in love with her unconditionally, and he didn't want to live without her...\" \"'I love you, Arielle,' he half-moaned. 'I'll call you tomorrow.' 'I love you, too,' she whispered. 'I'll be waiting for your call.'\" \"'Sebastian, I love you no matter what. You are my own person and private miracle,' she murmured, without taking her lips away from his.\" \"She felt his lips on hers; she smelled that wonderful scent of his and heard his voice murmur close to her ear. 'Sleep, my sweet angel! I'll be right here when you wake up.'\" ...more I love how Lilian Roberts cleverly wrote this like a modern day fairy-tale - a narrative style which develops the characters over a period of time, slowly establishing the reader as part of their lives. The author\u2019s attention to detail in describing her characters and their backgrounds has the reader pulled into the story, cheering for the heroine and booing the evil villainess. It is the story of Arielle, a young woman who has the power to read the minds and emotions of a select few but sees he I love how Lilian Roberts cleverly wrote this like a modern day fairy-tale - a narrative style which develops the characters over a period of time, slowly establishing the reader as part of their lives. The author\u2019s attention to detail in describing her characters and their backgrounds has the reader pulled into the story, cheering for the heroine and booing the evil villainess. It is the story of Arielle, a young woman who has the power to read the minds and emotions of a select few but sees her ability as a \u201cdreadful gift\u201d. Her determination to turn her back on anything other-worldly is severely tested when she falls in love with Sebastian, an immortal who is five hundred years old. Arielle is now in mortal danger as she faces the wrath of Sebastian\u2019s ex-lover who has extraordinary powers and will not rest until she has annihilated Arielle. If you love paranormal adventure, with a powerful story of enduring love, this is the book for you. Not only will you devour this book but Roberts has continued the series so you can grab the next one, and the next\u2026! ...more<---C>Lilian Roberts</---C>", "Title": "Arielle: Immortal Awakening"},
