{"Comments": "This review is for: A great story with hot and wild erotic scenes The Characters: Sophia is a 25 year old Brazilian widow and lawyer. Sophia is very intelligent - kind of genius - extremely fashionable, elegant and almost perfect.<---F> Or so it seems</---F>. She has inherit an oil company when her husband is killed that has its main branch in UK. So she fled to London and build a new life for her. She has an adorable daughter, Gabriela. The child is simply lovely. Ethan is 35 year old English-Greek billionair This review is for: A great story with hot and wild erotic scenes The Characters: Sophia is a 25 year old Brazilian widow and lawyer. Sophia is very intelligent - kind of genius - extremely fashionable, elegant and almost perfect. Or so it seems. She has inherit an oil company when her husband is killed that has its main branch in UK. So she fled to London and build a new life for her. She has an adorable daughter, Gabriela. The child is simply lovely. Ethan is 35 year old English-Greek billionaire, handsome and single. He falls in love with Sophia. At first sight! Alistair Connor is a widower,<---M> 35 year old</---M>, more than handsome, also billionaire. (<---B>Alistair Connor, hmmm!</---B>) He desires Sophia but he resists the pull she exerts on him. Sophia meets Ethan in Heathrow when he offered her a ride in his private airplane and she meets Alistair Connor when she goes to a business meeting. The love triangle is formed. The three characters have dark secrets. A few are unveiled during the story. And some remain for the next book, I\u2019m sure. There are lots of secondary characters, very well described and interesting. Makes me wonder if the author will create a series. This first book is set in an elegant Europe from October 2009 on. There are hot, wild sex scenes and they are well placed. There is no gratuity or kinky sex. MY OPINION ABOUT THE BOOK: This book has a very good plot and espetacular character development. The story moves along. And you\u2019ll find yourself desiring to be one of the characters. And then not, because the three have suffered a lot. There is a lot of talk and description, very well mixed. In the end, even if you don\u2019t buy the second book you will feel satisfied. The author leaves you cliff-hanging and screaming: I WANT MORE! ...more ABNA Expert Reviewer They read the first 5000 words of TRUST and they liked it. Take a look at their opinions. A- What is the strongest aspect of this excerpt? The intensity of the characters is the strongest part of this excerpt. They each have a dramatic flair without it seeming unreal. It was very readable. What aspect needs the most work? I think that the rest of the book will get to the protagonists' histories and stories and that was the part I wanted to know about. What is your overall opinion o ABNA Expert Reviewer They read the first 5000 words of TRUST and they liked it. Take a look at their opinions. A- What is the strongest aspect of this excerpt? The intensity of the characters is the strongest part of this excerpt. They each have a dramatic flair without it seeming unreal. It was very readable. What aspect needs the most work? I think that the rest of the book will get to the protagonists' histories and stories and that was the part I wanted to know about. What is your overall opinion of this excerpt? Overall, I found the story compelling and would have enjoyed reading more. I like the style, narrative, characterizations and story. B - What is the strongest aspect of this excerpt? The heroine is certainly interesting. Just when you think you have figured her out, something else is revealed about her. Well schooled, speaking several languages, with a prestigious job and dark past, she is a puzzle. Then to find out that she is in Geneva to meet her family and buy a home? Even more interesting. What aspect needs the most work? I think that women this self assured are sometimes off-putting to we mere mortals. Sometimes it's best to for the heroine to have some insecurities, something that women can identify with if only for a moment. Someone so accomplished, beautiful and successful is hard to identify with or feel empathy for. [read the rest of the book, my dear. Sophia is not this 'good girl'.] What is your overall opinion of this excerpt? It's got enough plot twists and undiscovered back stories to be interesting. Is she an attorney? Or a lecturer? Why all the mystery about her background? Something terrible happened to her husband and she was injured as a result. It will be interesting to find out what it was. ...more I received <---A>Cristiane Serruya</---A>'s novel as part of the Early Reviewers program in Librarything and what a delightful gift it was! Sophia Santos hasn't had an easy life and maybe that's why she is such a strong and independent woman. Only in her mid twenties, she has a successful career as a lawyer. After the tragic death of her late husband, Gabriel, she inherited his huge oil company and she manages to rule it with a still hand and a ruthless precision, winning respect from those who underestimate I received Cristiane Serruya's novel as part of the Early Reviewers program in Librarything and what a delightful gift it was! Sophia Santos hasn't had an easy life and maybe that's why she is such a strong and independent woman. Only in her mid twenties, she has a successful career as a lawyer. After the tragic death of her late husband, Gabriel, she inherited his huge oil company and she manages to rule it with a still hand and a ruthless precision, winning respect from those who underestimate her when they take in only her appearance instead of her guarded intelligence. Nevertheless, Sophia has a dark past, some dark incident lurking behind her consciousness which doesn't let her be at peace. Her daughter Gabriela and her family, especially her brother Felipe, are her most precious treasures and her only solace. But one day in October 2009 a couple of men will cross her path: Ethan, rich and possessive, and Alistair, a man with a wound so deep that he has lost his ability to love. Which of them will earn her trust and eventually her love? The game is ready to begin, brace yourself for numerous encounters which will increase your heart beatings in matter of seconds. And the more you'll read, the more you won't be able to stop. This is a thrilling book, written in elegant style and perfect to get lost one evening with a glass of red wine by your side. The numerous references to classic literature and classical music help to give the book an even a more distinguished touch, if that's possible, resulting into an actual and modern story but with solid background which gives credit to the author. Not only are the characters engaging, each in its own way, but also cleverly developed to build an exciting plot and a climaxing ending: Sophia is not perfect, but she is strong willed, intelligent and compassionate; Ethan is the apparent Prince Charming but with possessive and jealous outbursts which threaten Sophia's independence, and Alistair, oh my, Alistair is fantastic, the perfect anti-hero. Dark, brooding, moody and wounded, he is as dangerous as he is good-hearted, natural and sincere. And afraid to love again. But what has really made the difference for me with this story is the way that Cristiane manages what other authors don't when they describe their characters. She has a masterful way of giving an insight to each one of them without forcing it, transforming a fictional character into a very plausible human being who will become dear to you, who will be with you during all day until you manage to snag some time to keep on reading. And that only happens when a novel has the right amount of magic to transform a simple book into a gateway to your most secret yearnings. Can't wait for the second instalment, I can't recommend this book enough, take the plunge, you won't regret it! ...more I just have to give Cristiane Serruya a huge round of applause. I was 100% drawn into \"TRUST\". I won't rehash the plot because the overview doesn't sound terribly interesting or new. I'd to read this book twice to put some order in my jumbling thoughts. And why? Supposedly this is a romance, set in the billionaire Europe, with hot, hot, hot sex scenes. However, it's the masterful, smart writing that sets this book apart. There are so many messages between the lines that I had to read it twice. A I just have to give Cristiane Serruya a huge round of applause. I was 100% drawn into \"TRUST\". I won't rehash the plot because the overview doesn't sound terribly interesting or new. I'd to read this book twice to put some order in my jumbling thoughts. And why? Supposedly this is a romance, set in the billionaire Europe, with hot, hot, hot sex scenes. However, it's the masterful, smart writing that sets this book apart. There are so many messages between the lines that I had to read it twice. And I'll probably read it a third. The descriptions are so well done that I felt transported to their world. Details sing in all the right ways. It was like a film was passing right in front of my eyes were. I wouldn't and couldn't stop reading. The way the author started the book made me think I could never sympathize with Sophia. Too frivolous, too rich, too pampered, too perfect... Also, the male characters are paragons of overbearing and overwhelming masculinity. But through a very skilled writing with thoughts revealing emotions and beliefs, the main characters acquired new lights. Cristiane Serruya shows - and hints - hard truths that had happened to them and I felt my point of view morphing as she did it bit by bit. I was deeply connected to Sophia's, Ethan's and Alistair's stories and their emotional difficulties. And what to say about Gabriela? A perfect characterization of a prodigy, dear child. I want the second book!! Now!! Last, I have to thank my friend, Alberto, for having introduced me to Goodreads and this book. ...more I won this book as part of a Goodreads Giveaway. Let me just say this: thank God this is only the first in a series. Otherwise I may have gone into a literary depression after finishing this. I absolutely need to know and read more. Read it in 2 days because I couldn't bear to step away from \"Trust.\" I didn't realize that this was going to be a series until I got to the last page in the book. Serruya is a fabulous writer. You can absolutely tell she's done the research in order to make everything I won this book as part of a Goodreads Giveaway. Let me just say this: thank God this is only the first in a series. Otherwise I may have gone into a literary depression after finishing this. I absolutely need to know and read more. Read it in 2 days because I couldn't bear to step away from \"Trust.\" I didn't realize that this was going to be a series until I got to the last page in the book. Serruya is a fabulous writer. You can absolutely tell she's done the research in order to make everything as accurate as possible. The main characters in the novel get caught up in their lives and sex. Sophia is the young legal professional and has had her share of tragedy and Ethan and Alistaire, the gorgeous, 30-somethings, powerful men pursuing/trying to control her. My favorite parts of the book were when Serruya described things, the food, the clothes, the watches, the jewelry... everything. It makes you feel like you're learning about a lifestyle while reading the book. I'm going to need the second book ASAP! ...more Brilliant, espetacular, I want more!! What can I say that has not been said before? First, I read this in one seating. Yeah! 464 pages and today I was like: This book took me out of my comfort zone. This is not an easy task. Many times, I screamed: Specially on the last chapters. At first glance all you can see is: beauty, glamour, perfection, wealth and sex: all the ingredients of a normal, hot romance. However as layers and layers are peeled- or pages and pages are turned - the story blooms and m Brilliant, espetacular, I want more!! What can I say that has not been said before? First, I read this in one seating. Yeah! 464 pages and today I was like: This book took me out of my comfort zone. This is not an easy task. Many times, I screamed: Specially on the last chapters. At first glance all you can see is: beauty, glamour, perfection, wealth and sex: all the ingredients of a normal, hot romance. However as layers and layers are peeled- or pages and pages are turned - the story blooms and made me connected with the characters and their many and deep emotional turmoils. TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is a very intelligent romance with benefits . The hot 'under-the-sheets' interactions will make you jump your boyfriend's bones or take a cold shower. It's sensual, elegant and hot, and although the female leading character is younger and less experienced than the men, she is no submissive and she gives as much as she takes. Yeah! A point for the author! Well, you are thinking that this is a romance novel like any other, but it's not. There's much more to the story. The literary references and the opinions and believes concerning life, love, respect, morals and ethics and how money revolves around those give this book a weight that many other romances don't have. Add to that all the secrets running under the interactions among the three leading characters about their pasts and you here you are: a truly intriguing and thoughtful book that will make you read in a setting. It will hit you so hard you will rethink to your personal believes; it will make you re-evalute many things you have read; it will pull out your sensual and feminine part and make you want to be better and more. About the characters: Sophia is amazing. She is a beauty, inside and outside: polite, a good mother, a business woman, strong and wise beyond her years, she shines through out the book and I related to her right from the first chapter. Gabriela, her daughter, is a dearling that will make you smile every time she appears and root for her as much as you're going to root for Sophia. Ethan. Ethan... I'm rooting for Ethan but he still has to convince me (view spoiler) [that he deserves Sophia's love. (hide spoiler) ] He is manipulative and overly domineering. I loved him, I hated him and I cried with him and I hated him again. He is the perfect 'poor-rich-man', that has never known love (view spoiler) [and when he finds it, it makes him loses control over his possessive, jealous traits and makes him ruin everything. (hide spoiler) ] Now, Alistair. Alistair appears in the story later when (view spoiler) [Ethan has already snared Sophia (hide spoiler) ] . But he is so sure of himself that he takes over the story and the reader. He left me speechless and breathless. I absolutely loved everything about that man. I even (view spoiler) [excused his attack on Sophia. I could almost understand - and I pray - it's just a misunderstanding. (hide spoiler) ] His interactions with Sophia and Gabriela were exquisitely drawn and (view spoiler) [ especially after what happened between Ethan and Gabriela. (hide spoiler) ] Right. Now I'm supposed to put a photo or a gif of Alistair. But, I tried, I swear I tried, but Alistair is so superb that no Ian Sommerhalder, Matt Boomer, Joaquin Phoenix, Patrick Dempsey, Jon Hamm, Collin Farrel, could do him justice. Just for your eyes. However, his tormented past has damaged him so much that he is also possessive and jealous with Sophia. I also rooted for him to let his feelings manifest instead of dueling in his hurt and pain. I loved every minute of this book and I'm glad I didn't buy it before because I'm already counting the days for Betrayed. The way the character's demonstrate their thoughts and their emotions is breathtaking and moving. You can actually feel their love, pain, hate, despondency, grief, obsession, pride, darkness and remorse (I can go on and on and on...) in the most intense way. In the last chapters, I felt . I am so looking forward to reading Trust: Betrayed! Counting the days for its release.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I need to breath and digest all that I have read. I'm in a state of shock! Breath taken, here you are. :-) This book is what I call 'an intelligent romance'. It has every thing you could want in a romance + intelligent remarks, quotes, literary references - without being boring or snob - and conversations between the characters that makes you stop and think about many things in life. But not in a clam, quiet way, but as in a roller-coaster. That's exactly how I feel. In a roller-coaster. Cristiane I need to breath and digest all that I have read. I'm in a state of shock! Breath taken, here you are. :-) This book is what I call 'an intelligent romance'. It has every thing you could want in a romance + intelligent remarks, quotes, literary references - without being boring or snob - and conversations between the characters that makes you stop and think about many things in life. But not in a clam, quiet way, but as in a roller-coaster. That's exactly how I feel. In a roller-coaster. Cristiane Serruya has a fluid writing, that makes you sit and turn page after page, forgetting about the world around you. I literally fell into the book and I don't want to go back to the real world. I want to step up in high-heels and meet Sophia and those gorgeous men on those marvelous setting, while she struggles to open up her heart to love again after losing the love of her life. Everything is so well described that I felt I was part of the scene. And how about the Venice ball? OMG! And when I saw the ball video (on the author's page) I realized that Cristiane couldn't have described it better. And what about the musics? Because the musics are part of this book, too. And I'm amazed that I'm the first one to talk about them. Sophia - and Gabriela - is sweet and powerful. Alistair is very easy to like love, even though (view spoiler) [I hated when he turned aggressive towards Sophia in the end. I hope Cristiane will find a way to explain it. (hide spoiler) ] And Ethan... I have mixed feelings about Ethan. I love him and I hate him. I know Sophia put up many times with his jealousy, but I wish he finds his path to love too. I highly recommend this book. P.S. - The only thing that made me very mad at the author was when (view spoiler) [she killed Ethan's dog. I couldn't believe it. And although, I could understand, I'm still mad! (hide spoiler) ] . Anyway, it is worth many, many golden stars and surely I'll be buying the sequel and how many books Cristiane Serruya publishes! A great author! A great book! Introducing Alistair Connor! [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Trust is a complex story that is wonderfully developed with enough mystery and suspense to keep the reader guessing the whole way through. The character development in Trust was fabulous. The characters have their own issues, are not perfect, but are wonderful each in their own way. They were easy to relate to, especially Sophia, and by the end of the story I felt that I knew them personally. Their stories were interesting to say the least, and once they crossed paths their lives were woven toge Trust is a complex story that is wonderfully developed with enough mystery and suspense to keep the reader guessing the whole way through. The character development in Trust was fabulous. The characters have their own issues, are not perfect, but are wonderful each in their own way. They were easy to relate to, especially Sophia, and by the end of the story I felt that I knew them personally. Their stories were interesting to say the least, and once they crossed paths their lives were woven together in an exciting, breathtaking way. Sophia is a young, beautiful, rich widow. She is also very intelligent, which is a characteristic you do not often see in female leads. Ethan and Alistair are equally rich playboys. Either of them could have any woman they wanted \u2013 and they both want Sophia. The author's writing is beautifully descriptive, sometimes overly so; it is nice while reading a story for some of the little things to be left up to the imagination. The brand name dropping was a bit much as well. However, the emotion the author was able to put into the story through her words was incredible, full of ups and downs. I really love book that makes me feel for the characters. And after that ending, I will definitely be looking for book two in the Trust series. I received this book from the author/publisher in exchange for an honest review. ...more Braine's Talk Supe review TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is a very layered and intelligent read plus the under the sheets action will have you fanning yourself and steam up your room. Yes, the sex was HAWT! It's predominantly a romance novel but there's so much more to the story than that. My take on it is TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is an illustration of a person's primal reaction when s/he finds his/herself consumed with too much love and desire for another. Like how can you even contain something that's Braine's Talk Supe review TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is a very layered and intelligent read plus the under the sheets action will have you fanning yourself and steam up your room. Yes, the sex was HAWT! It's predominantly a romance novel but there's so much more to the story than that. My take on it is TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is an illustration of a person's primal reaction when s/he finds his/herself consumed with too much love and desire for another. Like how can you even contain something that's bigger than you are? Can you give without taking and what is the cost of having it all? Add all the secrets and mysteries running to and fro between Sophia, Ethan and Alistair about their respective pasts and present and you have a truly riveting and intriguing book in your hands. It's personal, psychological, sensual and down right sexy it's a great amalgam of romance, erotica and literary fiction I'm sure you'll enjoy it! ...more THE STORY IS TOTALLY OFF THE HOOK. I LOVE THE PLOT. I LOVE HOW THE CHARACTERS WERE FORMULATED, IT WAS SO METICULOUS! A romantic novel done over a table filled with every mouth-watering food with hot and steamy sexual tensions that really grip the readers' attention. And the plot was filled with intrigues, especially with the character's pasts. A romantic novel combined with neck-breaking turn on every page. TRUST is hot (as hot as Sophia), cleverly-plotted and to add the cherry on top: fine di THE STORY IS TOTALLY OFF THE HOOK. I LOVE THE PLOT. I LOVE HOW THE CHARACTERS WERE FORMULATED, IT WAS SO METICULOUS! A romantic novel done over a table filled with every mouth-watering food with hot and steamy sexual tensions that really grip the readers' attention. And the plot was filled with intrigues, especially with the character's pasts. A romantic novel combined with neck-breaking turn on every page. TRUST is hot (as hot as Sophia), cleverly-plotted and to add the cherry on top: fine dining. I DON'T JUST LIKE IT, I TOTALLY LOVE IT. FIVE THUMBS-UP, MS. SERRUYA, FOR A JOB VERY WELL DONE. -Morexette. :) ...more 3.5 out of 5 stars for TRUST: A New Beginning First of all, I love the cover! I requested it at LibraryThing because I was curious about it, and mind you, the cover helped a lot in making me click that 'request' button. The story is all about Sophia and the two irresistible men who keep going after her. The prologue was intriguing! I don't know how to make this review without spoiling some of the details of the story but I will really try my best. Even though the prologue was kind of confusing for 3.5 out of 5 stars for TRUST: A New Beginning First of all, I love the cover! I requested it at LibraryThing because I was curious about it, and mind you, the cover helped a lot in making me click that 'request' button. The story is all about Sophia and the two irresistible men who keep going after her. The prologue was intriguing! I don't know how to make this review without spoiling some of the details of the story but I will really try my best. Even though the prologue was kind of confusing for me, now that I scanned some of the parts of the story again, I finally understood some things that I didn't before. The first part was very catchy. The three main characters were speaking. The one in UK says: Why? Why can\u2019t I remember?\" The one in Park Lane says: Why does she keep haunting me? Why can\u2019t I feel anything for a woman? Why can\u2019t I be let myself be loved? The one in Scotland says: One more whore. One more to torment me. Is this what I really want? From this point, I know that this is gonna be a bumpy ride. And an intense one. And guess what, I'm right. ;) The characters: SOPHIA She is breathtakingly beautiful not just because of her physical appearance but because of her heart, her wisdom and her wit. I love her character here but I still want to know more about her and what really happened in her past. Even though she's only 25 years old, she has already gone through so much that I wondered how she ever survived, but I guess I'll find out more about that in the second book. And this is one of the lines I loved from Sophia: Ethan: \u201cWhy didn\u2019t you answer my secretary?\u201d Sophia: \u201cEthan, I don\u2019t go out with secretaries. You want to go out with me, you call me.\u201d Very nice answer. Haha. ETHAN A business tycoon who just needs someone he could love and who will love him truly. And he found that in Sophia, but would it last forever? Once he found out the answer, I was shocked. I didn't know Ethan could do such a thing, hell I was freaked out. But I think Ethan will play a big role in the next book and I'm really looking forward to reading it. ALISTAIR The banker who is used to breaking hearts of women. I love everything about Alistair- his looks, his attitude, but I don't know if I'll also love his 'unusual' preference. But here's a teeny tiny description of Alistair from Sophia: \"She squinted to have a better look of his face and was hit by the exceedingly handsome features and forest green eyes. These are the most wonderful eyes I\u2019ve seen in my whole life. They were intense, so intense that they seemed to burst into green flames, enhanced by ink dark, long and full lashes. His skin was slightly tanned. Perfect. God was inspired when He made him. He seemed designed by an Italian master painter.\" You know, these men make you do this: I have to commend Cristiane Serruya for the research that she has done for this novel. There were a lot of technicality when it came to writing about a lawyer but I think it helped that the author herself is one. :) The characters in the story loved and hated each other. I love roller coaster rides of emotions while reading a novel and this is definitely a ride you would want to catch. I only had a few issues with it, such as some of the words that were not spelled correctly and I think the constant showering of luxury brands kind of averted me sometimes to the story itself. Sure, I learned a lot of big brands from this, but I think it doesn't need to be reiterated that much. But despite of my issues, it was a good read. And a very good beginning for Cristiane because I believe this is her first novel. The mysteriousness of the characters makes me want to read more and more. Aaaand! I googled the place where Sophia was originally from! And here is what I got: Would love to visit it one day! MY FAVORITE QUOTES FROM TRUST: \u201cAs a rule, people tend to forget the most important things in life when money, power and lust are involved.\u201d \u201cBut if one stops believing in dreams, life loses its meaning, loses its colors.\u201d \u201cThings are more exciting when one unveils them bit by bit. One looses interest fast when they\u2019re too easy.\u201d \"Never was anything great achieved without danger.\u201d \"Hell is here. We live in a place of woes, of eternal pain, and loss.\u201d \u201cWe should abandon all hope when we are born. Happiness is a mere sparkle in the darkness.\u201d \"Everywhere I have searched for peace and nowhere found it, except in a corner with a book.\" *I received an ebook from the author in exchange for an honest review. This, however, did not influence my review in any way.* ...more THIS. IS. AMAZING. From the beginning this book got me by the horns. :D I fell in love with Ethan and the way he liked to dress Sophia. My God. That suite in Venice full of red roses... And then came Alistair Connor. And I said WTF? When he kissed her in the car, I almost slapped him. I got a bit confused - in a good way - to where Cristiane Serruya was leading me. I'm one of those who read reviews, the author's bio, the blurb and don't trust the cover. So, I asked myself is she going to pair Sop THIS. IS. AMAZING. From the beginning this book got me by the horns. :D I fell in love with Ethan and the way he liked to dress Sophia. My God. That suite in Venice full of red roses... And then came Alistair Connor. And I said WTF? When he kissed her in the car, I almost slapped him. I got a bit confused - in a good way - to where Cristiane Serruya was leading me. I'm one of those who read reviews, the author's bio, the blurb and don't trust the cover. So, I asked myself is she going to pair Sophia with this jerk? Yes, by jerk, I meant Alistair. Wait. Don't crucify me. I'm not done. As the story line proceeded, I started to hate Sophia. So perfect, so beautiful, so many so's. Wait again. And then BOOM! That spectacular scene on Galewick Hall brought to light so many sides of all those three leading characters that it floored me. And, in the end of the book, WTF again? I didn't know if I were very, very angry with the author or if she - the author - would redeem herself in the sequel. Well, so far, so good. Did I just say that? Correction: So far, so great, magnificent, roller-coaster, breath-taking. ...more I read this one on one sitting. It was that good!!! I recommend it as an excellent reading. It's full of meanings, literary quotes very well placed, beautiful settings very well described and hot-steamy sex scenes. I\u2019m so looking forward to the next book. I only had one week to read this book before leaving for a trip and I wasn\u2019t sure if it was enough time. As soon as I started reading it I was already engrossed in the story and wasn\u2019t able to put it down. So, yes, one week is more than enough time to read it because pages will fly. It certainly is a book for adults due to the explicit sex scenes thoroughly described. Besides this aspect that obviously capture the reader, the author was able to give the characters a background story that she only I only had one week to read this book before leaving for a trip and I wasn\u2019t sure if it was enough time. As soon as I started reading it I was already engrossed in the story and wasn\u2019t able to put it down. So, yes, one week is more than enough time to read it because pages will fly. It certainly is a book for adults due to the explicit sex scenes thoroughly described. Besides this aspect that obviously capture the reader, the author was able to give the characters a background story that she only reveals a bit at a time. This really contributed to keep me wanting to read more and still after I have finished the first book there is so much more that needs to be told. I can\u2019t wait to read the second book and possibly a third. I found it really interesting how my feelings towards the male characters changed. At the beginning I was really into Ethan, I liked the character and sympathized with him and didn\u2019t like the intrusion of Alistair Connor. Then the feelings switched, I started to see Alistair Connor like the nice guy, the right one for Sophia. I wonder if my feelings will change again. I found the book fairly easy to read even not being a native English speaker. Last, two words about the author, Cristiane Serruya, I really appreciate the friendliness and availability that she demonstrates toward her readers. ...more <+++>Trust: A New Beginning</+++>, is a captivating novel that will leave you in a state of withdrawal. Thankfully, I know that a second installment to this trilogy is just around the corner. The story consists of a young widowed Brazilian woman who the author, Cristiane Serruya, does a good job at bringing to life in the reader\u2019s mind. The protagonist, Sophia, is conflicted, suffering from nightmares stemming from a traumatic event that robbed her of her husband. Since then, she\u2019s tried to start over, loo <+++>Trust: A New Beginning</+++>, is a captivating novel that will leave you in a state of withdrawal. Thankfully, I know that a second installment to this trilogy is just around the corner. The story consists of a young widowed Brazilian woman who the author, Cristiane Serruya, does a good job at bringing to life in the reader\u2019s mind. The protagonist, Sophia, is conflicted, suffering from nightmares stemming from a traumatic event that robbed her of her husband. Since then, she\u2019s tried to start over, looking for a new beginning. But the men she encounters are haunted by their past. Trust is more than a romance novel, and the story is just beginning to pick up momentum and before you realize what time it is you\u2019ve finished the book. As a story writer myself, I enjoy discovering bits and pieces of the story that are likely representative of the authors life experiences. For example, Cristiane Serruya is a Lawyer who specializes in cases of sexual abuse and violence against children and women\u2014represented by characters and situations in the story\u2014which is what makes different authors\u2019 stories unique. Serruya\u2019s writing style is smooth and readable, \u201cBefore he knew what he was doing, he strode up to them with the liquid grace of a panther.\u201d I\u2019m routing for Ethan. I think there\u2019s much more to this guy than has been revealed to us thus far. ...more the book, it's was totally great, i love it..All those places, quotes, the details and descriptions..The intelligent Sophia and the nicknames that Sophia gave to some character was funny.. The little cute Gabriela, Ethan was the guy you want to slap and the Innocent - Guilty Alister.. I cant wait for the second book, in the end and to the snick pick to second book i wanted so much to learn what Sophia remembered and left like this and what the letter she left written inside.. The reaction of Ali the book, it's was totally great, i love it..All those places, quotes, the details and descriptions..The intelligent Sophia and the nicknames that Sophia gave to some character was funny.. The little cute Gabriela, Ethan was the guy you want to slap and the Innocent - Guilty Alister.. I cant wait for the second book, in the end and to the snick pick to second book i wanted so much to learn what Sophia remembered and left like this and what the letter she left written inside.. The reaction of Alister after she left.. And all the new questions that born in the end.. ...more Very good book... totally looking forward to the next one !!!! Good break from middle-class reality and steamy scenes that I almost had to take a cold shower afterward. Speaking as one housewife, a very good story and escape for a little while. Makes me root hard for the Sophia, Gabriela and Alistair while worrying at the same time about Ethan... definitely got wrapped up in the characters and really wanna see how it all turns out. Highly recommend!! Name of Book: Trust; A New Beginning Author: Cristiane Serruya ISBN: 9781480236295 Publisher: CreateSpace Part of a Series: Trust Type of book: 2009-2010, England, elegance, domination, erotica, adult, wealth, luxury, amnesia, secrets, strong female heroine Year it was published: 2012 Summary: They are beautiful. They are rich. They are strong willed and successful. They have everything, but love. And each one of them has a dark secret looming in their past. Sophia is a 25 year old Brazilian widow. Inte Name of Book: Trust; A New Beginning Author: Cristiane Serruya ISBN: 9781480236295 Publisher: CreateSpace Part of a Series: Trust Type of book: 2009-2010, England, elegance, domination, erotica, adult, wealth, luxury, amnesia, secrets, strong female heroine Year it was published: 2012 Summary: They are beautiful. They are rich. They are strong willed and successful. They have everything, but love. And each one of them has a dark secret looming in their past. Sophia is a 25 year old Brazilian widow. Intelligent and ravishing, she flees from her own country after a tragic incident. Hiding from everyone and everything, she remains alone, torn between the love for a dead man, the torment of living without part of her memory and the fear of moving on. Ethan is one of the most important tycoons in the steel industry. As the memory of an awful evening in his adolescence haunts him night and day, he keeps looking for an elusive woman whom he could love - and who would love him - as he never has in all his 35 years... Until he finds Sophia. Alistair is a 34 year old powerful banker, searching for one\u2013night stands with women who will warm his bed. And that he can punish physically to abate his anger for his late wife's black deeds and his own guilt for being such a debauched man for so many years. Any woman will do, and he has many to choose from, as they all fall instantly for his manly, devilish charming ways. In Europe, in the months after October 2009, their paths will cross and clash. Who will win the prize of love? This book is the first installment of a trilogy. It is intended for 18 and up. Characters: Sophia has got to be one of the most amazing women in fiction I have met. She's elegant, stylish, appealing, intelligent, strong-willed, loyal, moody, protective, naive and somewhat childish. I at times wondered if she was a little too perfect, and while reading it, I hoped to see more of her flaws rather than see her as an impenetrable goddess. However, the author does deliver my wish at the end. Ethan is Sophia's first boyfriend after the death of her husband who, despite his flaws, seems to be better than the alternative in my view. Ethan is ambitious, determined, tortured, and jealous. He also dislikes children. Alistair is also tortured but far more darker than Ethan is. Alistair loves children, is royalty, tortured, determined and seems to have crossed the line between pain and pleasure. The men have same personalities, but she somehow makes them different. I also realized something interesting; in an odd way Ethan can be thought of as, well, Edward, while Alistair can be thought of Christian. (No idea why my mind is doing this...) Very strong and memorable characters. Their secrets are barely revealed in first book, thus I'm eager to see them in second book. Theme: I could pick out a multitude of themes that the author tried to convey, such as love helps clear the path to the future, or try to work out your life before inviting someone else, or perhaps its not that fun looking for a type of guy that one reads about in current popular books. Plot: Its written in third person narrative from Alistair's, Sophia's and Ethan's points of views. The points of views constantly shifted which was a bit annoying, especially when it seemed that every few paragraphs it would move from Sophia's thoughts to Ethan's and afterwards I'd have no idea who was talking. The beginning and ending of the book are attention grabbing and very strong, while when Alistair pursued Sophia, it seemed to drag on in my opinion. (On one hand I wanted to see how bad Alistair could get, while on the other hand I didn't want for Sophia to walk into that kind of fire...) Constant references to luxury brands was also a bit annoying for me, considering I didn't know how they looked like, but I understood why the author used them constantly. She wanted for readers to truly experience the world of wealth instead of just simply telling us about them. The characters of Sophia and Alistair and Ethan were strong enough to overlook that though. Author Information: (from goodreads.com) born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil April 25, 1970 gender female website http://cristianeserruya.com.br twitter username CrisSerruya genre Contemporary, Romance, Chick Lit influences Classic literature, historical romance member since November 2012 I live in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with my husband and two daughters. I'm a lawyer, who specializes in cases of sexual abuse and violence against children and women. I also have a Masters in Business Law and a BA in Fine Arts. I've always loved to read, write and listen to music. I lived and studied in England, France, Italy and Switzerland. Traveling is one of my passions - as is keeping fit and healthy. After twenty-two years of practicing law, I decided to give writing a go. And - amazingly - it was just the piece that was missing in my life. Opinion: The only words I can come up with is 'wow'. I loved every moment of reading this book and hanging out with the tortured souls. I loved the characters, the setting, descriptions, and storytelling. What I loved is that its not a virginal naive heroine we are dealing with. Sophia has been married and widowed and she is a lawyer that has seen the dark side in terms of defending women from men just like Alistair and Ethan. She takes my breath away. Considering the popularity of Fifty Shades of Grey, I couldn't help but wonder how much the author was inspired by Fifty Shades to create this type of book. If you rolled your eyes while reading Fifty Shades, or, like me, would rather put your brain through a meat grinder rather than try to read Fifty Shades, I would highly highly recommend you read this book. The author knows what she's talking about for one; Sophia echoes our own thoughts about her situations, and despite the slight unrealism of Sophia's character, I enjoyed getting to know her. Quick notes: I would like to thank the author for the opportunity to read and review the book. 5 out of 5 (0: Stay away unless a masochist 1: Good for insomnia 2: Horrible but readable; 3: Readable and quickly forgettable, 4: Good, enjoyable 5: Buy it, keep it and never let it go.) http://sveta-randomblog.blogspot.com/... ...more I forgot to post the review. Better now than never. I received this in first-read giveaway. This is the second edition and I haven't located any grammar problems or typos. - The differential: I was draw inside the story by the epilogue. The peculiarity of having AT THE SAME TIME three characters' POVs plus the narrator, in such a clear show and tell, with them thinking out loud so you could accompany the similarities/dissimilarities between what they though and how they talked/acted was really in I forgot to post the review. Better now than never. I received this in first-read giveaway. This is the second edition and I haven't located any grammar problems or typos. - The differential: I was draw inside the story by the epilogue. The peculiarity of having AT THE SAME TIME three characters' POVs plus the narrator, in such a clear show and tell, with them thinking out loud so you could accompany the similarities/dissimilarities between what they though and how they talked/acted was really incredible. These insights are wonderful and make the book shine like a bright star among many I had read so far. The characters' emotions : They are quite hidden in the beginning and as the plot unfolds you unveil them, as the layers and layers of the characters are exposed. Towards the end, the story had such unexpected twists and turns that I was left in withdraw. I was happy that the second book was already by my bedside table. The descriptions that had bothered a few reviewers had probably been trimmed, because they are still there, but they don't fill pages as few said. In fact, I would say that the descriptions are what make this book exceptional. They draw you to that magical place only imaginative and creative awesome authors can conceive and make you feel part of the story (from being the bodyguard to the leading rich and elegant characters). The way the characters talk: This is so refreshing . A book that has not foul words and slangs in every sentence. Many slangs make a book difficult to understand to a foreigner and foul words abounding make a book distasteful for me. It made me long for a time I haven't lived. - The cover: I love covers. They can draw me in easily. This one has a peculiarity I found enticing: The author's brother designed the eyes for her (I read the acknowledgments). And as I am very curious I took a look at both the author's and her brother's Facebooks and websites. The eyes on the cover look like very much their eyes. So, I guess that the artist used the author as a model. Is she Sophia? - The characters: Sophia is intelligent, gentle, caring and extremely elegant. Thank God, she is richer than the already rich men. A point well made because this makes her - and the plot - so much more interesting. She is struggling with so many things that, imo, she prefers to block her feelings, to feign being aloof, to distance herself from emotions because she cannot contact the pain she is immersed on; I didn't find impossible for her to have such a brilliant career as a lawyer, wife and mother. (What a lovely relationship she has with her daughter, Gabriela.) Specially, because the author confesses in \"About the book\" that she has many similarities with Sophia and Gabriela. Ethan is still a mystery to me. He doesn't seem too intelligent and then, boom, he comes with a sharp sentence, or though, or an action so unexpected that makes him a master strategist. He seems very unsure and then again he contradicts my opinion. I like and I dislike him in equal parts. He is handsome, rich, polite, a bit on the formal side, sometimes smothering, and very, very elegant. He had suffered a lot during childhood and don't know how to cope well with what happened to him. I would say he is a poor rich man . Alistair is, in his own words: darkness. For me, Alistair is lost in his darkness (or so I hope). In the beginning, I hated him and was rooting for Ethan (not because I liked Ethan more, but because I really dislike the way he was showing himself to Sophia). I can't exactly pinpoint how or when he started to grow on me. He has slowly gained points since he appeared in the story and I still cannot judge him completely because he lost many points and gained them again in the last chapters. All I can say is that he still has a long way to go to find himself and conquer Sophia. (Specially after I have read the epilogue of the 2nd book. That was completely unexpected.) There are many secondary characters that have their place well woven in the plot, such as: the lovely and adorable Gabriela, the BFF Edward, the calm and reasonable Leonard, the rude and temperamental Tavish and many others that make this story seems real life. - The plot: This is a love triangle as you must have read in the blurb, but what it's interesting is that the book is not only about two men trying to rescue a damsel in distress. No, Sophia is no damsel is distress (although she is a damsel). And this contemporary adult romance brings much more than pages and pages of sex scenes as it has become usual nowadays. It is not just that. It's so much more. It's about our contemporary world and the demand on women and men, abuse, pain, loss, lust, friendship and love. This has a story, this has a message. You have to read between the lines or read the author's ideas that are scattered all over it. And as in any trilogy expect a cliff-hanging. - The bad parts: I have nothing bad to say about this book. It's an exceptional work of research (and the author clearly knows what she is talking about) and creative writing that leaves you wondering how many blueprints the author used to create her characters and if this is really a work of fiction. A last word: - The author: My book came signed by the author, dedicated to me (yes! with my name), with a personal handwritten note in a beautiful card, accompany by a bookmark. She asked me permission to befriend me here in GoodReads. I thought she was a century year old lady and was using a photo from when she was 30. Kidding! Cris, or Cristiane Serruya, is gentleness personified. A real lady. The devil sitting on my shoulder wonders if she is Sophia... Angel or devil, Sophia or not Sophia, Cristiane Serruya is endearing and a delicious surprise as an author. I'm her fan. ...more 4 Stars I was generously gifted this book by Cristiane Serruya. And, I must say thank you because it was a great read! I loved the plot, characters and the writing. I don't want to give much away because there are many twists but basically the story revolves around Sophia and her relationships with Ethan and Alistair. Sophia is an extremely rich and intelligent widower who has some serious issues which we still don't really know about. I'm guessing the plot will thicken in the next book. I have m 4 Stars I was generously gifted this book by Cristiane Serruya. And, I must say thank you because it was a great read! I loved the plot, characters and the writing. I don't want to give much away because there are many twists but basically the story revolves around Sophia and her relationships with Ethan and Alistair. Sophia is an extremely rich and intelligent widower who has some serious issues which we still don't really know about. I'm guessing the plot will thicken in the next book. I have my doubts that she might be bat-shit crazy because of her comments and arguments BUT, we still don't know yet. What I didn't like about Sophia was that she is pretty conceited and quite frankly, spoiled. She also got her law degree when she was 17 and married her now dead husband at the same time. Which in the real world, seems insane. Which also means she must have been 15 when she started law school. Hmm...sounds a bit like Dougie Houser. Her relationship w/ her brother made me uncomfortable. And, didn't like how she talked to her sister...again conceited. At times, she seemed too perfect and I couldn't take her seriously. Ethan IS crazy but I started to like his role in the end. I'm guessing he'll add a lot to the plot in the the sequel. He's rich, handsome and obsessive over Sophia - a little too obsessive. He's introduced in the beginning and his and Sophia's relationship starts pretty soon thereafter. But, he makes some BIG no-no's and that's when he gets crazier. He blames all of his jack-assed-ness on his mom but what he went through doesn't seem so bad in comparison to what he ends up doing. Alistair. mmmm....Alistair. He's my book boyfriend. Also rich, handsome, obsessive over Sophia AND... a lord! He seems the most normal out of the three characters which is surprising considering his past and sexual intrigues. He seemed the most level headed even though he was pretty possessive and domineering. He has major trust issues and he lost a few points from me towards the end because of something he does. I still like him though. I can't wait to see what happens to him and Sophia in the next book. Domestic abuse is a major issue in this book and I'm glad the author portrays it the way she did. I volunteered at a few battered women clinics and the way Sophia acted to a few situations is exactly how women who go through abuse act. It was nicely set up and I'm hoping Sophia can solve or get help for her issues before the final book ends. The story line is so different from anything I've read in the past. There is a lot of mystery but the romance is still there. I loved the craziness of the characters because it adds thrill and realism. There were a few things I thought the book could change or disregard. There were spelling mistakes. Also, all the characters are uber-rich so what they were wearing, driving or eating was constantly described in grave detail. The descriptions could have used some editing, for example, when crazy Ethan buys Sophia a crap load of clothes, each piece of clothing was described by brand, color and style. At times, I skipped over those details especially when they didn't seem necessary for the particular plot. Other than, I quite loved the book and can't wait till the next one! ...more AMAZING!!! I LOVED THE DESIGN, THE DEVELOPMENT, THE SCENARIOS, THE SUSPENSE, THE SCHEMES, ALL UNFOLDING BETWEEN THE CHARACTERS. This story COMPLETELY enraptured me from the very beginning. It was SO well written and VERY descriptive. At first glance all you see is the wealth, the glamour, the perfection. But as each of the characters story unfolds, I felt profoundly connected with them and their emotional turmoils. Sophia is beautiful inside and out, strong and wise beyond her years. I loved her AMAZING!!! I LOVED THE DESIGN, THE DEVELOPMENT, THE SCENARIOS, THE SUSPENSE, THE SCHEMES, ALL UNFOLDING BETWEEN THE CHARACTERS. This story COMPLETELY enraptured me from the very beginning. It was SO well written and VERY descriptive. At first glance all you see is the wealth, the glamour, the perfection. But as each of the characters story unfolds, I felt profoundly connected with them and their emotional turmoils. Sophia is beautiful inside and out, strong and wise beyond her years. I loved her character and her gorgeous daughter Gabriela. Event though we do not know her past in its entirety yet, what we do know is very compelling and emotional. I am torn with Ethan. On one side I hate that he is conniving, manipulative and overly possessive. I still cant believe he did that to Sophia. But on the other side, i could not help but understand his feelings for Sophia. He has never known what love is and to finally find it, to feel what is like and to never want to let it go was so intense for him that it was also his destruction. I really NEED to say that for some reason before I even started reading the book, my inclination was already set towards Alistair, which is something I have NEVER felt before. And my instinct certainly did not fail me. I simply could not wait until he finally made his appearance in the story, and when he finally did....MY GOD...I was just as captivated and speechless as Sophia. I loved everything about that man. The relationship he built with Gabriela was a sight to behold. But his past has tormented and damaged him so much that he is also possessive and jealous with Sophia. He has closed his heart with the promise to never fall in love again. Seeing his feelings manifest and his heart uncoil throughout his relationship with Sophia was heartfelt and gladdening. I cannot wait to continue to read their story in Book 2. The unfurling of affection, anger, ardor, despondency, empathy, fervor, grief, obsession, perturbation, pride, rage, remorse (I can go on and on...) with each character was so intense and acute! I loved every minute of it! I am so looking forward to reading Trust: Betrayed! Fingers crossed for an early release...;) ...more First of all, I\u2019d have to say that this is definitely a great series. Never have I ever read a book with so much description in it. Everything was written with so many details that I was able to clearly imagine the scenes in my head. In my opinion, this is the kind of story that will keep a person reading all night long, not wanting to stop because you just have to know what happens next. However, pages upon pages of what the characters wear, what they have for lunch and dinner, which does nothin First of all, I\u2019d have to say that this is definitely a great series. Never have I ever read a book with so much description in it. Everything was written with so many details that I was able to clearly imagine the scenes in my head. In my opinion, this is the kind of story that will keep a person reading all night long, not wanting to stop because you just have to know what happens next. However, pages upon pages of what the characters wear, what they have for lunch and dinner, which does nothing to move the plot kind of made it feel a little bit draggy. But aside from that, I\u2019d say that it was a pleasant read for me, especially after going through the second half of the book where the plot started to develop and I get to know the real story of each of the main character. This is a story that revolves around three extremely rich, powerful and GOOD LOOKING people in search of the one thing they lack in life, which is love. And oh, not to forget, the hot sex scenes were finely written. It was very, very hard for me to read it in public as I\u2019d have to stop reading it few minutes before I was able to get up of my seat and walk away, if you know what I mean. Hehe Personally, I think that this story proves the saying that \u2018Money can\u2019t buy you happiness\u2019 as although all of the main characters are ridiculously wealthy, there will always be that emptiness inside them that could only be filled by love. Lastly, I do have to say that ending the book the way Cristiane did was a bit annoying as I was just starting to really get into the book. I do understand that it was a cliff hanger, though, and as I\u2019ve told her before, if the next book is not going to come out anytime soon, I would be really really upset. So yeah, I totally recommend all of you readers out there that are looking for a good romance series to get this book ASAP and start reading it because I assure you that it is definitely worth reading. \uf04a ...more I would like to preface my review by saying romance is not a genre I read. I've read two in the past and they were laughable at best. However, this book was recommended to me and I gave it a chance. I am so glad I did because this had more going on in it than what I consider a typical romance novel. The main characters had a depth that most books in any genre fail to achieve. Sophia is struggling with a past she cannot remember and debating if she is ready to move on after losing her husband. Et I would like to preface my review by saying romance is not a genre I read. I've read two in the past and they were laughable at best. However, this book was recommended to me and I gave it a chance. I am so glad I did because this had more going on in it than what I consider a typical romance novel. The main characters had a depth that most books in any genre fail to achieve. Sophia is struggling with a past she cannot remember and debating if she is ready to move on after losing her husband. Ethan was raised by horrendous parents and that trauma haunts all of his relationships. And Alistair is grieving with a loss so difficult he has sworn to never love again. By chance their three lives intersect and this causes each of them to search within themselves for closure. The relationship between Sophia and Ethan is tumultuous and he does a few terrible things which finally make her end the affair. Towards the end of the book I find his actions to be just plain creepy. Alastair Connor and Sophia meet while she is still with Ethan and there is an immense sexual tension between them. When they finally get together well\u2026ooh la la! Alastair Connor as well does something awful to Sophia and that is where the book leaves off for part two. Both of the men are overly jealous and possessive, but I feel that only one of them is trying to atone for his sins and become a better man. The sex scenes are plentiful and well written. There are grammatical errors, but the author is from Brazil so I overlooked that. At times the descriptions were a bit much, but she did a great job of bringing the reader into the world of the ultra-rich. I also appreciated the highbrow dialogue on philosophical topics. I read a lot of non-fiction so that aspect of the book intrigued me. I cannot wait for the next book; I\u2019m looking forward to reading more about these three characters. Veni, vidi, vici! ...more Many people believe having money, power, and good looks means having happiness, as well. The three main characters of Brazilian author Cristiane Serruya\u2019s contemporary erotic romance novel, TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING, would probably disagree. Each of these characters have the looks, the money and the power, but aren\u2019t happy. Each has dark secrets that torment them and as the trio come together more complicated problems ensue. Sophia is a young widow filled with confidence and a strong will until it c Many people believe having money, power, and good looks means having happiness, as well. The three main characters of Brazilian author Cristiane Serruya\u2019s contemporary erotic romance novel, TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING, would probably disagree. Each of these characters have the looks, the money and the power, but aren\u2019t happy. Each has dark secrets that torment them and as the trio come together more complicated problems ensue. Sophia is a young widow filled with confidence and a strong will until it comes to her secret. She struggles to get over the death of her beloved husband and regain a portion of her life she has no memory of. Nightmares haunt her dreams and she\u2019s afraid to go forward with her love life. Ethan, a steel tycoon, and Alistair, a banker, both become enamored with Sophia. The men, trying to battle their own demons, want Sophia\u2019s attention and devotion. They will use all means necessary to achieve their goal. Serruya has written a complex triangle of love, broken trust, and heartache with a whisper of hope and redemption. She has crafted well-developed characters that have inner demons we see slowly emerge and retreat. The author\u2019s eye for detail comes through in the richly described surroundings of the characters, as well as the various countries they visit. The story flows smoothly and quickly with twists along the way to keep you on the edge of your seat. TRUST: A NEW BEGINNING is a labyrinth of emotions, secrets, and personal revelations. It contains steamy sex scenes mingled with suspense for a roller coaster ride of fun reading. While the story draws to an end, it is far from over as the trio\u2019s story continues in the next installment, TRUST: BETRAYED, recently released. FTC Full Disclosure - An eBook copy of this book was sent to me by the author as part of her virtual book tour in hopes I would review it. However, receiving the complimentary copy did not influence my review. ...more This was such an awesome read. The main characters are Sophia (a young widow), Ethan (a rich steel tycoon) and Alistair (a rich banker). All three characters struggle with darkness and secrets. Sophia is intelligent (speaks 7 languages), beautiful, confident, rich, well bred, well dressed, and strong with secrets. Married at 17 to a somewhat older rich man she has not had much experience with men. Ethan & Alistair are both extremely smart, handsome, rich, dark & EXPERIENCED, somewhat old This was such an awesome read. The main characters are Sophia (a young widow), Ethan (a rich steel tycoon) and Alistair (a rich banker). All three characters struggle with darkness and secrets. Sophia is intelligent (speaks 7 languages), beautiful, confident, rich, well bred, well dressed, and strong with secrets. Married at 17 to a somewhat older rich man she has not had much experience with men. Ethan & Alistair are both extremely smart, handsome, rich, dark & EXPERIENCED, somewhat older than Sophia as well. They both want Sophia. But what for? They don't need her money, they can get any woman they want. Sophia is struggling with darkness that even she doesn't understand and they both have very dark pasts. Who will steal her heart? Who will she give everything to? Who will fight for her? The twists in this book & the way the plot thickens made it hard to put down. Absolutely loved the connections that Sophia had with both of these alpha men. She knows when to play hardball and knows when to be soft. I would say Sophia is an alpha herself in several different ways. This is another favorite of mine and I can't wait to read the 2nd book (Trust - Betrayed). This book has both extreme heat and sexual tension. Gotta love the chase. Favorite of mine - Alistair is finally going to kiss Sophia & as he was kissing her My favorite quote from the book during this kiss is \"\u201cAnd he heard a moan. His.\u201d OMG, so sexy. ...more 3.5 stars This was a pretty good beginning. Can't wait for the sequel to see what happens next. To say that Ethan gives me the creeps would be a colossal understatement. My only two complaints are: 1. I wish Sophia's character was a few years older (perhaps if she was in her late 20s/early 30s it would been easier to buy all of her accomplishments in life) & 2. too many brand names mentioned and too often. Don't get me wrong, I love shopping & appreciate the brands as much as most females d 3.5 stars This was a pretty good beginning. Can't wait for the sequel to see what happens next. To say that Ethan gives me the creeps would be a colossal understatement. My only two complaints are: 1. I wish Sophia's character was a few years older (perhaps if she was in her late 20s/early 30s it would been easier to buy all of her accomplishments in life) & 2. too many brand names mentioned and too often. Don't get me wrong, I love shopping & appreciate the brands as much as most females do but when I read about a character in a book who happens to be wearing a scarf, I don't have to be told every time that the said scarf came from Herm\u00e8s. ...more I read Trust:A New Beginning by Cristiane Serruya and loved it. As I was reading I thought I knew what was going to happen next but boy was I wrong. The story had twists and turns that kept you wanting to read more to find out what was next. As I was getting towards the end of the book I was wondering how Cristiane was going to tie this all up with only a few more pages to go and then to find out that the story will continue in her next book.I am already looking forward to finding out how the st I read Trust:A New Beginning by Cristiane Serruya and loved it. As I was reading I thought I knew what was going to happen next but boy was I wrong. The story had twists and turns that kept you wanting to read more to find out what was next. As I was getting towards the end of the book I was wondering how Cristiane was going to tie this all up with only a few more pages to go and then to find out that the story will continue in her next book.I am already looking forward to finding out how the story ends. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did. ...more Great book. It captivated my attention and din't let go until the very last page. Can't wait to read the next one. Here is my review on YouTube Trust: Betrayed here I come... I won this book on a book giveaway. First off thank god there's gonna be another!! Loved the book!!! Thank you for the chance to read it!! Very clever beautifully written piece of work. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED.<---C>Cristiane Serruya</---C>", "Title": "Trust: A New Beginning"},
