{"Comments": "An epic failure of research and imagination. The reviewers on GR who have rated this novel highly have generally praised its poetic evocation of love and loss.<---F> Okay, I can get that</---F>. The novel is an extended dirge of a life spent in unrequited longing as a result of a loveless childhood and an equally loveless adulthood. All of it told in prose like this: I am at sea again. I am at sea again. Not the choppy, churning body that bashes open a ship's hull like a newborn's soft skull. Yes, a sapphire An epic failure of research and imagination. The reviewers on GR who have rated this novel highly have generally praised its poetic evocation of love and loss. Okay, I can get that. The novel is an extended dirge of a life spent in unrequited longing as a result of a loveless childhood and an equally loveless adulthood. All of it told in prose like this: I am at sea again. I am at sea again. Not the choppy, churning body that bashes open a ship's hull like a newborn's soft skull. Yes, a sapphire that a ship's bow skims and grooves. A calming blue expanse between now and Sunday. That little paragraph is a description of the main character's emotions after learning that his current lover wants to see him again the next weekend. Here's another sample,<---M> this time the main character</---M>, B\u00ecnh, describes love: Quinces are ripe, GertrudeStein, when they are the yellow of canary wings in midflight. They are ripe when their scent teases you with the snap of green apples and the perfumed embrace of coral roses. But even then quinces remain a fruit, hard and obstinate\u2014useless, GertrudeStein, until they are simmered, coddled for hours above a low, steady flame. Add honey and water and watch their dry, bone-coloured flesh soak up the heat, coating itself in an opulent orange, not of the sunrises that you never see but of the insides of tree-riped papayas, a colour you can taste. To answer your question, GertrudeStein, love is not a bowl of quinces yellowing in a blue and white china bowl, seen but untouched. If that kind of writing is what you like, then go for it. Unfortunately, that is all you are going to get here. And frankly, that's far too little for me. It's irritating to be jerked out of a prose induced reverie when a metaphor for the forming of opinions is written thusly: But once they are formed, ours become the thick, thorny coat of a durian, a covering designed to forestall the odour of rot and decay deep inside. Now obviously, the writer does not know (a) that among us South-east Asians, durians are called the king of fruit and that odour is highly prized and (b) yes, you can smell that odour even with the thick thorny coat on. No indigenous Vietnamese man would describe the durian thusly. It would be the equivalent of a French chef referring to the smell of a Roquefort as putrid, decaying rot. In a fairly crucial plot point, she refers to B\u00ecnh\u2019s grandmother giving jade earrings as a dowry for his mother. That jangled for me instantly, since in Vietnamese culture it is the groom that is required to give a dowry (or, strictly, the bride-price). She writes of ancestor \u201cworship\u201d thus: After my mother gave birth to me, there were many things she could no longer pray to her father and mother about. They would have disowned her. Then whom would she have left to worship, whose likeness would she have left to reconfigure from memory for her family altar? There is no forgiveness in ancestor worship, only retribution and eternal debt. That is extremely irritating to read. It's an outsider\u2019s description marking mostly a complete failure of understanding. Asians don\u2019t worship ancestors the way Christians worship their God. A closer term would be ancestor veneration. There is no prayer or conversation with ancestors akin to confiding in God and the saints. Incense, food, and other offerings are made by way of both showing respect and to feed them in the afterlife. And the family altar is never never never kept via the woman. That\u2019s why sons are so important. A woman is married out into the husband\u2019s family. She takes HIS ancestors. There were other clunkers like this that kept popping up, but what finally did the novel in for me were B\u00ecnh\u2019s descriptions (and this is first-person narrative) of things that happened between Alice B Toklas and Gertrude Stein, private conversations that he, a servant who could not speak English, could not possibly have overheard or\u2014having overheard\u2014understood. He describes, for instance, a fight that takes place between Gertrude Stein and her brother Leo before he arrives to work for them, and the ensuing private conversation between Alice and Gertrude: [Leo]\u2026concluded for all to hear that Gertrude\u2019s writing was nothing more than babble\u2026\u201cBabble!\u201d GertrudeStein complained to Miss Toklas. \u201cLovey, there can only be one,\u201d Miss Toklas whispered, repeating the phrase that would absolutely, mercilessly sever GertrudeStein from her brother Leo, her only one\u2026. Leo wrote a note to his sister, as they had chosen to no longer speak, accusing Miss Toklas of stealing her away from him. When Miss Toklas read this, she laughed, and wrote back, \u201cYour sister gave herself to me.\u201d Okay, B\u00ecnh doesn\u2019t speak English much less read it, so the only way he would know of the contents of the two letters is if the two of them told him of this. Yes, I can see that happening: the two mistresses confiding this very private event to their cook. Total bollocks! But why include this event then? Does it pertain in any way to Bihn's story or his development as a character? No. It seems to be written in only so that Truong can impart this stunning bit of writerly post-modern wisdom: \u201cHow true, I think. A gift or a theft depends on who is holding the pen.\u201d If <---A>Monique Truong</---A> had wanted to write a fictionalised account about Gertrude Stein and Alice B Toklas, she should have done just that rather than putting words into the mouth of a badly realised, imperfectly imagined sock puppet who would also come off sounding like a cross between a badly written Hallmark card and a Vietnamese version of Charlie Chan. ...more A novel full of distinct ideas and images that never quite came together. Monique Truong's debut book centers on Binh, a gay Vietnamese cook who flees Saigon in 1929 to work as a galley hand at sea. He narrates his journey while later employed as a live-in cook for Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas, two esteemed women who operate a literary salon in Paris. When the two women plan a return trip to America, Binh must confront the ghosts of his family and his exile. <+++>The Book of Salt</+++> included a lot of A novel full of distinct ideas and images that never quite came together. Monique Truong's debut book centers on Binh, a gay Vietnamese cook who flees Saigon in 1929 to work as a galley hand at sea. He narrates his journey while later employed as a live-in cook for Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas, two esteemed women who operate a literary salon in Paris. When the two women plan a return trip to America, Binh must confront the ghosts of his family and his exile. <+++>The Book of Salt</+++> included a lot of cool phrases and poetic images about sexuality, race, gender, abuse, and more. I got lost - in a good way - in some of Truong's passages; they would often flow from thought to metaphor to sensation and beyond. Her use of Binh's overt introspection to isolate minute details and string them together impressed me However, I felt an overwhelming lack of direction in The Book of Salt . Binh's mind wanders from place to time to memory to incident without any solid grounding; the impact of his journey decreased because of how Truong did not give his internal rumination enough structure. While Binh's desire for belonging and his curiosity about Stein and Toklas pulsated from the pages of the novel, his intense strands of emotion never merged into a single thread for readers to hold onto and follow. Overall, a unique book I would recommend to those intrigued by its synopsis, because it does touch on several fascinating subjects. While Truong both hit and miss with The Book of Salt , I would still give another book of hers a shot, if not just for her poetic prose. ...more I read this book for a course on queer historical fiction. The story is told by a gay Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas in Paris during the late '20s/early '30s. There's not too much plot, but what's there is dispensed slowly, with another piece being added to several timelines with each chapter. The story is drawn from a brief mention in The Alice B. Toklas Cook Book about their actual Vietnamese cook, and it is satisfying to read this novel from the latter perspe I read this book for a course on queer historical fiction. The story is told by a gay Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas in Paris during the late '20s/early '30s. There's not too much plot, but what's there is dispensed slowly, with another piece being added to several timelines with each chapter. The story is drawn from a brief mention in The Alice B. Toklas Cook Book about their actual Vietnamese cook, and it is satisfying to read this novel from the latter perspective: it's \"the Steins\" who are relegated to the background, one part of a longer narrative, and there is hardly any attention paid to the various artistes who came to visit Gertrude Stein (this is a good thing). The best thing, though, is the writing, which is the verbal equivalent of some incredible, painstakingly prepared meal: every clause seems to be constructed in the most imaginative and appealing way, I remember the description of a halved melon as offering its red belly and \"button of seeds\", and I wonder how anyone could conceive of such a cool way to describe a fruit... So it's a \"deliciously written\" book, as one of the blurbs puts it. It's also a somewhat brooding book, about the loneliness and confusion of moving to a new land with a strange culture and language. As someone who's never gone farther from the U.S. mainland than British Columbia, I was also constantly intrigued by the idea of being an alien in a city of indifferent, condescending or suspicious strangers... This was one of those rare assigned readings that constantly feels like procrastination. ...more A beautiful find. This gem of a novel by first time writer Truong shows great promise. A lyrical meditation on love, sex, food, and post colonial identity, this novel about a Vietnamese chef who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas in Paris, is so comfortable in its dreamy imagination and adaptation that is feels ceaseless. It lingers like an ocean voyage. I would like to say that I liked it more, but I just can't. I feel pretty well read, but this story is a mystery of wandering thoughts. Some parts flowed nicely and others were very disjointed and felt completely chopped up. I still do not understand the title, even at the end. There were many observations of GertrudeStein and Miss Toklas that I really liked and one especially was regarding their \"waiting kits\" that Miss Toklas packed to give them something to do when their car broke down and th I would like to say that I liked it more, but I just can't. I feel pretty well read, but this story is a mystery of wandering thoughts. Some parts flowed nicely and others were very disjointed and felt completely chopped up. I still do not understand the title, even at the end. There were many observations of GertrudeStein and Miss Toklas that I really liked and one especially was regarding their \"waiting kits\" that Miss Toklas packed to give them something to do when their car broke down and they waited for help to arrive. From the book: \"Hers contains a set of knitting needles and several balls of apple green yarn, the disheveled kind with whispy hairs tangled on the surface. She likes the color, so unripe it was makes her pucker just to look at it. But most of all, she likes how the crispness of the color serves as a foil for the texture of the yarn, a melt-in-her-hand sensation. The eyes tell her one story, and the hands tell her another.\" It goes on to talk about interchanges and intrigue and personal foibles and the mood of the time. It ends with \"My Madame knows that intrigue, like salt, is best if it is there from the beginning.\" This had to do with salting a roast after it has cooked as opposed to before.\" This is not a cooking book kind of story but it talks about cooking. It is not really a story about GS and ABT except that Binh did live with and cook for them for about 5 years. It is supposed to be Binh's story, and it is but I really had to work hard to get through it. ...more It's told from the point of view of a Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas. The cook is the narrator, and we learn throughout the story his compelling, and devastating, family history and why he left Vietnam. I was only a few pages into the book when I realized that I don't have the voice yet for my historical novel I'm writing. Truong has captured a rich, unique voice in her book that is addictive and haunting. I only have ideas and notes, not that voice that will dri It's told from the point of view of a Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas. The cook is the narrator, and we learn throughout the story his compelling, and devastating, family history and why he left Vietnam. I was only a few pages into the book when I realized that I don't have the voice yet for my historical novel I'm writing. Truong has captured a rich, unique voice in her book that is addictive and haunting. I only have ideas and notes, not that voice that will drive the story. And I know the only way to find it is to keep researching and writing. ...more what can i say...this is the only novel where i rediscover the novel every time i read it. not only are the plot and the characters SO very well developed, but the research into gertrude stein & alice b toklas' lives were extremely well done -- not to mention all the social issues addressed and all the boundaries crossed. who could ask for more? monique truong, you are a genius! It's distinctly a debut novel. You can tell it's written in a state of transition, whether that's from poetry or from short stories to novels. The writing comes and goes in spurts, and no single story strand ever appears long enough to pick out a delicate pattern. It's just a mass of tangled threads at the end. But somehow the underlying fabric remains steady, and you're pulled through the narrative without meaning to be. The narrator, supposedly complex, is more a collection of traits than an in It's distinctly a debut novel. You can tell it's written in a state of transition, whether that's from poetry or from short stories to novels. The writing comes and goes in spurts, and no single story strand ever appears long enough to pick out a delicate pattern. It's just a mass of tangled threads at the end. But somehow the underlying fabric remains steady, and you're pulled through the narrative without meaning to be. The narrator, supposedly complex, is more a collection of traits than an individual. It's easy, almost too easy, to slip your conception of yourself in the clothes that hang too loose on Binh (that's what he's called, even if it's not his name). His history becomes yours, his desires become yours, and slowly, your impressions of last Tuesday's dinner creep into the story, and your memories of genius become intertwined with the portrayals in the prose, and your desire for a home becomes more important than anything Truong underscores. Your deficiencies, and your strengths, give Binh a body. He is nameless, transient, easily overpowered by reality. And I'm not certain that this is a bad thing. Unintentionally or intentionally, this sublimation of the individual through the prose echoes the sublimation of the individual through language, which echoes the sublimation of the individual through colonialism. I'm leaning favorably towards this reverberation. The ease by which all these flashing threads dazzle their way across the narrative, never quite settling down or allowing another to take center stage, makes this a fast read. It's a haphazard stream-of-consciousness, and that's not redundant. It's not stream-of-consciousness in that all thoughts just expel themselves onto the page. Binh's thoughts are still sheltered. But we read them, as if we were reading his face, as he remembers desire. The memories integrate themselves into our own consciousness so subtly that we're never sure if we're recalling his home, or ours. It doesn't matter. Neither of us has one. I loved reading this. I'm not sure if I loved digesting it, though. It packs a punch, without touching. ...more This book is driving me crazy. The premise is very interesting; Gertrude Stein and Alice B Toklas hire a gay Vietnamese cook and the story is his view of his own life and their's in Paris. But beyond the premise, and layer after layer of pretty language, there's nothing. There is absolutely no story, whatsoever. There are virtually no scenes whatsoever, just page after page of densely written summary filled with figurative language and aimless musings on life and love and so on and so on. There This book is driving me crazy. The premise is very interesting; Gertrude Stein and Alice B Toklas hire a gay Vietnamese cook and the story is his view of his own life and their's in Paris. But beyond the premise, and layer after layer of pretty language, there's nothing. There is absolutely no story, whatsoever. There are virtually no scenes whatsoever, just page after page of densely written summary filled with figurative language and aimless musings on life and love and so on and so on. There are numerous requisite reminders that This Book is About Race and Class and Sexuality, but there isn't a single insight beyond, \"Sometimes people are racist. Sometimes people are homophobes. Isn't that a shame.\" There's nice writing on every page, and some of the chapters weave an idea through from the beginning, disappearing and reappearing at the end to form a nice complete loop of thought. But the narrator never feels like a gay man, always like a young woman imagining a gay man, and the two Madames have almost zero presence in the story. There's no insight into them as characters or women, or historical figures. The narrator reminds us that he's tormented by his sense of guilt and shame towards his macho father, but his father never for even a moment transcends the easiest, cheapest single dimension of insecure macho villain, and the narrator never actually seems tormented. It feels like the diary of a smart woman who likes to write. But that is very, very different from a novel. I lost my place while reading on the bus this morning, and flipping through pages, I had absolutely NO idea if I was ahead or behind of m place in the book, if I was seeing something I hadn't read yet or not. ...more I expected to like this book a lot - it is set in a place and time that interest me (Paris in the 1930s and colonial Viet Nam) and is populated with real-life characters (Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas) who interest me. So why did I give it only one star? 1. Nothing happens. There is no plot. The main character doesn't grow. 2. I don't care for books where the main character is a victim throughout. The main character is victimized by the French imperialists, by his father, by his lovers, and I expected to like this book a lot - it is set in a place and time that interest me (Paris in the 1930s and colonial Viet Nam) and is populated with real-life characters (Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas) who interest me. So why did I give it only one star? 1. Nothing happens. There is no plot. The main character doesn't grow. 2. I don't care for books where the main character is a victim throughout. The main character is victimized by the French imperialists, by his father, by his lovers, and maybe by some others I've forgotten. He is still a victim at the end. 3. \"An American restaurant. Bargelike slabs of beef and very tall glasses of cow's milk, I imagined. But when we got there, the red lantern hanging outside announced this was no American restaurant. 'Oh,' I said sighing, 'I was not expecting a Chinese restaurant.' Three kinds of vegetables, any three would do, just as long as they are cheap and drowned in a cornstarch-thickened slurry, I thought.\" Yes, these words come out of the mouth of a character, not the author, but they don't fit the character so I have to assume that it is really the author who uttered them. This is an example of a kind of mean-spiritedness I sensed from time to time while reading this book. I usually pass books along to friends or family members when I am done with them, but I couldn't think of anyone I thought might enjoy this book. ...more This book became magical for me. In the beginning, the feelings of disjointedness and alienation experienced by our narrator and made real by the style of the narration left me confused and disquieted. As his years of service with Madame and Madame continued, I felt the style becoming less contrived and I was more able to identify with him. I didn't know much about Gertrude Stein really (she's the one with the fish and the bicycle, right?) but this rang true for me in its description of her life This book became magical for me. In the beginning, the feelings of disjointedness and alienation experienced by our narrator and made real by the style of the narration left me confused and disquieted. As his years of service with Madame and Madame continued, I felt the style becoming less contrived and I was more able to identify with him. I didn't know much about Gertrude Stein really (she's the one with the fish and the bicycle, right?) but this rang true for me in its description of her life and her home. I really liked Alice and I hope she really was like that in life. By far, my favorite bits were the many eloquent and elaborate descriptions of food preparation. I loved the ending. I felt really lucky for the life that I live while reading this book. Imagine being the only person around who speaks your language. I also felt sad a lot of the time. The poverty, hopelessness, and helplessness was just terrible to witness. Especially when reading about the kids. I also felt disturbed by the scenes regarding homosexuality and the reactions of many of the characters. ...more This book made me want to cook a humongous meal and gorge myself, even though I can't cook my way out of paper bag. Monique Truong's descriptions of food are sensual, but not in the massage kind of way. When she talks about mangoes, it's as though it's a really hot day and you've just plunged your sweaty face into a big bowl of freshly cut mango and shaved ice- that kind of sensual. The book's overarching conceit is also really interesting; its narrator is Anh Binh, a Vietnamese expatriate whose This book made me want to cook a humongous meal and gorge myself, even though I can't cook my way out of paper bag. Monique Truong's descriptions of food are sensual, but not in the massage kind of way. When she talks about mangoes, it's as though it's a really hot day and you've just plunged your sweaty face into a big bowl of freshly cut mango and shaved ice- that kind of sensual. The book's overarching conceit is also really interesting; its narrator is Anh Binh, a Vietnamese expatriate whose gourmet kitchen ways get him hired as cook to Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas. Binh's struggle with language- trying to get his rudimentary French and English to synch up with his profoundly eloquent inner dialogue- provides food for thought when juxtaposed with Gertrude Stein's cultural arrogance and Western wordplay. The only false note here was Binh's ongoing inner argument with his horrible father, which was cheesy, but not in the nice sharp Dublin cheddar kind of way. ...more My friend Naomi lent me this book a couple months ago while she was very homesick for Paris. I took advantage of today's awful weather to sit inside and read it. I can see how some could read it and not quite remember much about the book. One seems to glide in and out of scenes (Vietnam, somewhere in the middle of the ocean, Paris) with total ease. It's amazingly sensual. Descriptions of cooking and eating are as visceral as the descriptions of the books' lovers. I have really enjoyed reading th My friend Naomi lent me this book a couple months ago while she was very homesick for Paris. I took advantage of today's awful weather to sit inside and read it. I can see how some could read it and not quite remember much about the book. One seems to glide in and out of scenes (Vietnam, somewhere in the middle of the ocean, Paris) with total ease. It's amazingly sensual. Descriptions of cooking and eating are as visceral as the descriptions of the books' lovers. I have really enjoyed reading this book and I have yet to even mention the silly pleasure of reading about Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Tolkas. Yet this book is almost too well-written. The character's conflicts seem to never jam the work of the book. It makes me realize how much I love flaws in works. This seems so seamless. You wonder what the author will do next. Hopefully something a little more messy. ...more I was 3/4 of the way through this when I took a phone call from a friend and was trying to explain to her why I didn't like it. \"You just don't love the dykes,\" she said (nice). \"Actually,\" I said, \"there's not enough about the dykes in this book for me to know if I like them or not!\" ... and I realized the problem -- this book isn't about \"GertrudeStein\" (LOL!) and Alice Toklas; it's not about the chef; it's not about cooking; it's not about Americans living in Paris; and it's not about an unpub I was 3/4 of the way through this when I took a phone call from a friend and was trying to explain to her why I didn't like it. \"You just don't love the dykes,\" she said (nice). \"Actually,\" I said, \"there's not enough about the dykes in this book for me to know if I like them or not!\" ... and I realized the problem -- this book isn't about \"GertrudeStein\" (LOL!) and Alice Toklas; it's not about the chef; it's not about cooking; it's not about Americans living in Paris; and it's not about an unpublished manuscript. It's just a little about everything, and not enough focus on any one thing. Honestly, I'd have liked a book on any of these subjects, by this author, set in this time, with these characters. It's definitely interesting, but I wanted more on any of these topics. Obviously, salt is a theme throughout the book, with some subtle and some obvious references. I liked this part at the end, in discussing the gazpacho of Malaga: \"Salt is not essential here,\" Miss Toklas interrupted. \"Consider it carefully, Bin, before using it.\" A pinch of salt, according to my Madame, should not be a primitive reflex, a nervous twitch on the part of any cook, especially one working at 27 Rue de Fleurus. Salt is an ingredient to be considered and carefully weighted like all others. The true taste of salt -- the whole of the sea on the tip of the tongue, sorrow's sting, labor's smack - has been lost, according to my Madame, to centuries of culinary imprudence. One of my foodie friends recently heard for the first time the axiom about using salt to cover bad cooking (if I can remember the exact expression, I'll add it here later). I thought this went well with that. I do think foodies might enjoy this one, and it definitely made me more interested in Gertrude Stein's writings, but I can't say I loved it. It was, however, great for a flight from Denver to Newark for a quick business trip :) ...more There are books that I know are too sophisticated for me and this is one of them. This book is so perfect, so full of poetic, gorgeous phrasing, that it's unreadable to me. I read some pages aloud, accompanied by sublime cups of jasmine and oolong paired with lychee fruit in china that matched the color of the book cover, but I couldn't continue reading after the cups were empty, the flesh of the lychee stripped from the nut. My intrigue in the words and the story lasted only a few cups of tea, There are books that I know are too sophisticated for me and this is one of them. This book is so perfect, so full of poetic, gorgeous phrasing, that it's unreadable to me. I read some pages aloud, accompanied by sublime cups of jasmine and oolong paired with lychee fruit in china that matched the color of the book cover, but I couldn't continue reading after the cups were empty, the flesh of the lychee stripped from the nut. My intrigue in the words and the story lasted only a few cups of tea, a few chapters. Is it possible that a book could be useful and a source of pleasure even if it's only read for a fraction of its pages? I think so. This is one of those books for me. I've attempted reading this book about a year and a half ago and returned it to the library. I checked it out recently after being so enamored by the glimpse of the Lost Generation via \"The Paris Wife\" and \"Midnight in Paris.\" I was wanting to understand more about that circle of artists and the powerful Gertrude Stein from a retrospective vantage. But while the story takes place in the home of Stein and Toklas, the story really isn't about them. It's its own story, very carefully and uniquely wrought. I'll probably check it out again in another year and a half to find out if my sophistication level has increased... ...more Beautiful prose, fascinating setting, no plot. Yes, the book has strong, thought-provoking elements of what it means to be \"other\" -- the miserable approach of the narrator, a gay Vietnamese cook in 1920s/30s Paris, or the brave, positive approach of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, the gay American couple who hired him. Yes, the author can turn a phrase. But there's no story for the pretty words to describe. It's all flashbacks of relationships real and imagined, mis-directions and lies, and Beautiful prose, fascinating setting, no plot. Yes, the book has strong, thought-provoking elements of what it means to be \"other\" -- the miserable approach of the narrator, a gay Vietnamese cook in 1920s/30s Paris, or the brave, positive approach of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, the gay American couple who hired him. Yes, the author can turn a phrase. But there's no story for the pretty words to describe. It's all flashbacks of relationships real and imagined, mis-directions and lies, and decadent descriptions of food. (The food alone bumped this from 2 stars to 3.) But there's nothing at stake, and no reason to care about what happens to these characters. According to the cover copy, the question is \"will Binh travel to America?\" But the author never gives me a reason to care if he does or doesn't. There's no reason for him to go, and not much reason for him to stay. It wasn't a horrible book to read during an extremely long day of cross-country travel, but I wasn't sorry to leave it in the seat-back pocket of the airplane, either. ...more Rare is the book that makes me put it down with twenty pages. Normally I try to keep going, but sometimes you can just tell. I think this is the passage that did it for me: \"And so, like a courtesan, forced to perform the dance of the seven veils, I grudgingly reveal the names, one by one, of the cities that have carved their names into me, leaving behind the scar tissue that forms the bulk of who I am.\" This is not in response to some grueling interrogation; no, employers are interviewing an appl Rare is the book that makes me put it down with twenty pages. Normally I try to keep going, but sometimes you can just tell. I think this is the passage that did it for me: \"And so, like a courtesan, forced to perform the dance of the seven veils, I grudgingly reveal the names, one by one, of the cities that have carved their names into me, leaving behind the scar tissue that forms the bulk of who I am.\" This is not in response to some grueling interrogation; no, employers are interviewing an applicant for a household job. I mean, asking someone where they're from and where they've been the past few years doesn't seem over the top, does it? But the author overindulges in ridiculous flowery language at every turn. If she pared it back, used the metaphors a bit more sparingly and with a bit more consciousness of the context, it might be okay. Instead, she seems insistent on using dramatic imagery for every little thing. It just feels like it's supposed to be a 'good' novel that's going to end up being dramatically mediocre and not worth the time. ...more I feel like two stars is too generous, but one star is too harsh for an author who clearly knows how to write but doesn't know when to stop or edit. The book for me only really becomes cloyingly annoying at the start of ch. 18 when the narrator begins comparing his mother's strength to a bamboo tree. The rest of the book shoud just not have been written in my opionon. The description on the bird dying as a symbol for his own mother's death is trite. Furthermore Truong does not leave it up to the I feel like two stars is too generous, but one star is too harsh for an author who clearly knows how to write but doesn't know when to stop or edit. The book for me only really becomes cloyingly annoying at the start of ch. 18 when the narrator begins comparing his mother's strength to a bamboo tree. The rest of the book shoud just not have been written in my opionon. The description on the bird dying as a symbol for his own mother's death is trite. Furthermore Truong does not leave it up to the reader to make these parallels or assumptions that the mother has died but must spell everything out repeatedly. For a book with so many cooking references the author does not appreciate subtlety and the notion that \"less is more\". But not to be too negative there were some descriptions in this book that were quite lovely and well described. I also thought the premise of the book an interesting one. ...more Monique Truong writes an honest book about the relationship of the colonized to the colonizers. Her narrator is a Vietnamese cook for the Mesdames, Gertrudestein (said as one word by all those around her) and Alice B. Toklas while they live in Paris. Understanding well his own circumstances, forced to flee his job at the Governor-General's in Saigon and rejected by his colleague brother and always by his father after an affair he has with the chef is found out. It takes time to consider who he i Monique Truong writes an honest book about the relationship of the colonized to the colonizers. Her narrator is a Vietnamese cook for the Mesdames, Gertrudestein (said as one word by all those around her) and Alice B. Toklas while they live in Paris. Understanding well his own circumstances, forced to flee his job at the Governor-General's in Saigon and rejected by his colleague brother and always by his father after an affair he has with the chef is found out. It takes time to consider who he is in his family, who his mother was and his life ahead. He allows himself to hope briefly in meeting an American lover but his place in the household where he works is humiliatingly low in comparison the the Mesdames' pets. This is a story imagined from a brief mention of Stein and Toklas having hired a cook in Paris. So much seems real. ...more I initially picked this book up because I'd been hearing good things about another title - Salt: A World History - so I kind of had salt on the brain. This book - The Book of Salt - left me very unsatisfied. I don't have a particularly good recollection of why, as I read it several years ago - I just remember some vague thoughts that the writing was not very good, and for some reason I didn't really warm up to Bin (I believe that's how his name was spelled). Unfortunately, I can't cite any specif I initially picked this book up because I'd been hearing good things about another title - Salt: A World History - so I kind of had salt on the brain. This book - The Book of Salt - left me very unsatisfied. I don't have a particularly good recollection of why, as I read it several years ago - I just remember some vague thoughts that the writing was not very good, and for some reason I didn't really warm up to Bin (I believe that's how his name was spelled). Unfortunately, I can't cite any specific examples; all I can say for sure is that I would not recommend this book. ...more An amazingly beautiful book. Written with poetic and musical notes. The emotions are poignant and bittersweet. A feast that satisfies and drew me in to want more. If readers like smart, literary and compelling books, this is it. I can't recommend this enough. And I will her other book and others she writes! Readers will recognize one key theme---of water and its various sources/bodies---how this thread is built and woven throughout the book. Such readers will also relish how the poetry of words wo An amazingly beautiful book. Written with poetic and musical notes. The emotions are poignant and bittersweet. A feast that satisfies and drew me in to want more. If readers like smart, literary and compelling books, this is it. I can't recommend this enough. And I will her other book and others she writes! Readers will recognize one key theme---of water and its various sources/bodies---how this thread is built and woven throughout the book. Such readers will also relish how the poetry of words works throughout the story. ...more Such a brilliant premise for a book--Truong, based on a few lines from Toklas' real cookbook, imagines what it would be like to be the Vietnamese cook/servant to the famous ex-patriot couple Gertrude Stein & Alice B. Toklas in Paris. The story intertwines the difficult life of Binh (the homosexual Vietnamese servant) with the glamourous & hilarious lives of the Steins. This book revolves around reconciling traditional cultures with that culture's ever-changing future. Painful and wonderf Such a brilliant premise for a book--Truong, based on a few lines from Toklas' real cookbook, imagines what it would be like to be the Vietnamese cook/servant to the famous ex-patriot couple Gertrude Stein & Alice B. Toklas in Paris. The story intertwines the difficult life of Binh (the homosexual Vietnamese servant) with the glamourous & hilarious lives of the Steins. This book revolves around reconciling traditional cultures with that culture's ever-changing future. Painful and wonderful. ...more I read this while at Hedgebrook. She wrote part of this while staying in the same cottage. I could feel the rhythm of the same environment in the part about the mother (the part she wrote there). The rain fell on the roof, same as it did in the narrative, it was an eerie experience. Wow, I liked this! Maybe it has something to do with a big surprise I got when I began reading: the main character is gay and his sexual orientation is important the book, and it's subtly written but very suggestive, and the character is sincere and strong, and refuses to feel sorry for himself despite troubles his love life lands him in. I was happy, really happy about this. The story is told from the point of view of Binh, a 26-year-old Vietnamese who lives in Paris with Gertrude Stein and Alic Wow, I liked this! Maybe it has something to do with a big surprise I got when I began reading: the main character is gay and his sexual orientation is important the book, and it's subtly written but very suggestive, and the character is sincere and strong, and refuses to feel sorry for himself despite troubles his love life lands him in. I was happy, really happy about this. The story is told from the point of view of Binh, a 26-year-old Vietnamese who lives in Paris with Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas as their cook. (I've read somewhere that they really had two \"Indochinese\" cooks.) He observes the two ladies and their (predominantly male) guests and admirers, although it must be said that these observations are very sparse. The reader is constantly told about the genius of Gertrude Stein, the reverence she inspires and the fame which surrounds her, but not much of it is shown. The conversations cited are mostly of a household kind (food, shopping, vacations etc.). Actually, much more spotlight is given to Binh's private life, his adventures, the romance he has with a young American doctor, and the reminiscences of his family and his life in Vietnam. The Vietnam story line and the Paris one are in fact parallel, unraveling steadily till the very end of the book. I liked them both; I'm not a fan of the prevailing trend of interrupting the current story with backstories, but it's very well done in this book. Also, it was a good thing that Binh was not obsessed with the famous ladies (positively or negatively) and that more space was given to his own concerns and experiences. It was, after all, his story. And all the plots were connected very very skillfully. What I also liked was the subtlety of it all. Racism, colonialism, bigotry, fanaticism, social injustices are all themes of this book, but they are introduced rather by the means of irony than of outright and plain condemnation. The main character is passionate and ironic at the same time, which is a great mix. What I didn't like was... I don't know, sometimes the language was so lofty, ornate and ostentatiously snobbish that it not only weighed the story down, but made it unbelievable. The main character is not an educated man, apart from him being a chef. In fact it's not even explained how he had learned to read and write. There's nothing about the school or even his parents or older brothers teaching him. The only thing he reads is letters, notes and newspapers. Yet his language is one of an educated person and his thought processes show him as someone with interest in religion, philosophy, sociology, medicine and whatnot. The other thing I thought lacking was the descriptions of Saigon - there were almost none. I couldn't actually tell if his family was very poor or moderately well-to-do; I had no real feeling of the character of the city, or the people, or the General Governor's mansion. I only remember that it was hot. But all in all, I read this book almost in one sitting and enjoyed it a lot. And all the food details were great. ...more The Book of Salt isn't normally the kind of book I'd pick up. Reading the blurb - that the Book of Salt is the story of Binh, the Vietnamese cook employed by Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, and how he \"observes their domestic entanglements while seeking his own place in the world\" - made me fear that this would be another one of those cliched \"Asian trying to find self in another country\" tales. One of those tales that gains appeal by romanticizing and exoticizing the East with a Capital E. The Book of Salt isn't normally the kind of book I'd pick up. Reading the blurb - that the Book of Salt is the story of Binh, the Vietnamese cook employed by Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, and how he \"observes their domestic entanglements while seeking his own place in the world\" - made me fear that this would be another one of those cliched \"Asian trying to find self in another country\" tales. One of those tales that gains appeal by romanticizing and exoticizing the East with a Capital E. But I was intrigued when a friend of mine told me she loved this book and had devoured it in one sitting. In a way, I was right. The Book of Salt pressed all the usual buttons, evoking the mysterious East with Binh's recollections of \"sour sweat\", rice, quinces. Sentences like: \"I am an Indochinese laborer, generalized and indiscriminate, easily spotted and readily identifiable all the same. It is this curious mixture of careless disregard and notoriety that makes me long to take my body into a busy Saigon marketplace and lose it in the crush. There, I tell myself, I was just a man, anonymous, and, at a passing glance, a student, a gardener, a poet, a chef, a prince, a porter, a doctor, a scholar. But in Vietnam, I tell myself, I was above all just a man. The Book of Salt does try to add a new spin to the identity tale. We learn that The Book of Salt isn't just about a young man trying to find himself in a foreign land. As we read on and piece together the various snippets of Binh's life in Vietnam that he chooses to reveal, we learn why Binh left home. We learn about Binh's trick to coping with emptiness, what he does to feel alive. And there are some lovely bits of prose in the book, some lovely metaphors, like when Binh meditates on the nature of love: \"Quinces are ripe, GetrudeStein, when they are the yellow of canary wings in midflight. They are ripe when their scent teases you with the snap of green apples and the perfumed embrace of cora roses. But even then quinces remain a fruit, hard and obstinate - useless, GertrudeStein, until they are simmered, coddled for hours above a low, steady flame. Add honey and water and watch their dry, bone-coloured flesh soak up the heat, coating itself in an opulent orange, not of the sunrises that you never see but of the insides of tree-ripened papayas, a color you can taste. To answer your question, GertrudeStein, love is not a bowl of quinces yellowing in a blue and white china bowl, seen but untouched\" It is these lovely bits of prose scattered about the book that kept me going. The Book of Salt was, on the whole, an entertaining enough read. But to call it magical, extraordinary and fascinating - as some of the reviews did - might be overreaching it a little. ...more AudioBook Review Stars: Overall: 3 Narration : 3 Story : 3 How was I to resist a story that told the tale of Binh, the cook to Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas: expats all living in Paris. Anh Binh is Vietnamese, a gourmet chef and one possessed of a richly evocative sense of description. Told through Binh\u2019s point of view, the story consists of scenes relived through memories of Vietnam, being at sea and his early life and struggles in Paris. There is a peculiar device used by the author to na AudioBook Review Stars: Overall: 3 Narration : 3 Story : 3 How was I to resist a story that told the tale of Binh, the cook to Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas: expats all living in Paris. Anh Binh is Vietnamese, a gourmet chef and one possessed of a richly evocative sense of description. Told through Binh\u2019s point of view, the story consists of scenes relived through memories of Vietnam, being at sea and his early life and struggles in Paris. There is a peculiar device used by the author to narrate and voice Binh, some idiomatic and grammatical errors creep in to illustrate his struggle with French, English, Vietnamese and his particular poetic use of words and language in metaphor and simile to present a solid sense of who he is. Unfortunately, without any particular conflict or quest, simply the retelling of his story without real ties to Stein and Toklas, but more reflective on Americans in Paris and a feeling of self-indulgent whinging: the lush illustrative language is lost as readers wonder about the point. While I had hoped to see more information about Stein and Toklas in their relationship, interactions and approach to the world, Binh is more concerned with presentation and self-approbation, reached only through his facility with the meals he creates. Narration for this story was provided by J. Paul Boehmer. There weren\u2019t any great distractions to his narration: his tone is pleasant and enunciation is clear. However, there was a distinct lack of emotion imbued into the retelling of the story, and with his pace being naturally slow, rather than allowing time for reflection it did make the story drag on. A touch of emotion imbued into the story, or a change in tempo of the narration would have helped to keep a listener engaged. This wasn\u2019t quite what I expected, but it did hold moments of great surprise in facile use of descriptions that were evocative and mouth-watering. While the story of Binh was rather unfocused, and a few cultural errors and mistakes were presented in the retelling, it was a listen that was provided some great imagery and interest for food combinations, flavors and ideas. I received an MP3 Download from AudioBook Jukebox from the producer for purpose of honest review for the Heard Word. I was not compensated for this review: all conclusions are my own responsibility. ...more Binh, the Vietnamese cook working for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, tells the story of his life and family in Vietnam, and his experience as a ship's cook, and his existence working as a private chef in Paris. It is a story about living and writing one's own history. Binh shares his story with the reader, a combination of fact and fabrication, delicately weaving the fabric of his life so that he can cover himself and survive in a world that has always been hostile and foreign, no matter wh Binh, the Vietnamese cook working for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, tells the story of his life and family in Vietnam, and his experience as a ship's cook, and his existence working as a private chef in Paris. It is a story about living and writing one's own history. Binh shares his story with the reader, a combination of fact and fabrication, delicately weaving the fabric of his life so that he can cover himself and survive in a world that has always been hostile and foreign, no matter where he is. Despite communication barriers, he seeks and makes contact with individuals who teach him lessons about life: Bl\u00e9riot teaches him cooking, French sensibilities and class considerations, and his provides him with his induction into sex; shipmate Bao teaches him how to protect himself in the world, and more sex; Stein admirer Lattimore teaches him about race, judgment, attraction, dishonesty and further sex; GertrudeStein and Alice B. Toklas about coupledom and acceptance, even if the family is utterly unconventional, two unappealing little dogs and two women, one of whom exists to serve the other although each needs the other in her own way. But it is his mother who gave him the most important gift of all, that of storytelling, and the way to create the story of his life. \"A story is, after all, best when shared, a gift in the truest sense of the word.\" ...more The prose is definitely beautiful. I really enjoyed the culinary imagery that leaks into every aspect of Binh\u2019s descriptions; it was very different from your typical imagery, something I haven\u2019t been exposed to very much, and captured feeling in a concrete but passionate way. Setting, tone, and emotion were delivered convincingly. That said, this wasn\u2019t quite the book for me. I enjoyed it because I enjoyed the writing, but there wasn\u2019t enough plot to keep me really engaged with what was going on The prose is definitely beautiful. I really enjoyed the culinary imagery that leaks into every aspect of Binh\u2019s descriptions; it was very different from your typical imagery, something I haven\u2019t been exposed to very much, and captured feeling in a concrete but passionate way. Setting, tone, and emotion were delivered convincingly. That said, this wasn\u2019t quite the book for me. I enjoyed it because I enjoyed the writing, but there wasn\u2019t enough plot to keep me really engaged with what was going on in Binh\u2019s life. I appreciated the dives into his past and his personal life, and he was a really interesting narrator because of those things, but I didn\u2019t feel true character development as much as character exposition. Don\u2019t get me wrong, his story was interesting and contrasted well with other characters in a way that set both him and them apart, I just think that his character unfolds more than it progresses throughout the book. I would recommend it to readers who are really attached to interesting writing or in learning about characters, but I can\u2019t say that it offers much in terms of action. Also, while the synopsis does mention Alice B. Toklas and Gertrude Stein, I wouldn\u2019t recommend picking this up if you\u2019re hoping for an in-depth exploration of either of them - they are mentioned, they are somewhat significant characters, but the focus isn\u2019t on them. ...more the story itself intrigued me: a gay asian chef who works in the home of gertrude stein and alice b. toklas, definitely a take on modernity and modernism that was a refreshing change from the usual images and ideas offered on this time period, and these two women. the nuances of alienation are poignant, and the moments of tenderness are very, very tangible. so why not a higher rating? as much as i wanted to love the writing style, the tone of this book, there were far too many portions that irri the story itself intrigued me: a gay asian chef who works in the home of gertrude stein and alice b. toklas, definitely a take on modernity and modernism that was a refreshing change from the usual images and ideas offered on this time period, and these two women. the nuances of alienation are poignant, and the moments of tenderness are very, very tangible. so why not a higher rating? as much as i wanted to love the writing style, the tone of this book, there were far too many portions that irritated me with what seemed to be an overwhelming sense of the authors own self-importance, in the vein of \"look! look at this overwrought metaphor i am using to describe this scene! isnt it beautiful ?!\" nothing irritates me more than this, which i call the hawthorne problem. remember the scarlet letter ? remember how hawthornes symbolism was so in-your-face that you wanted to punch him and say, \"i get it! i get it! now stop breathing over my shoulder, dammit, and let me read the story!\" there are traces of that, enough of it, in this novel, which impede the moments of real beauty and brilliance that truong is able to convey. ...more First off, Monique Truong is a super talented author and I will happily look for more of her books. Unfortunately, The Book of Salt is filled with all three of my Sleepy Read Triggers: religion (Catholicism in particular), cooking minutiae (Babette's Feast, zzzzzzzzz), and magical realism. The three main characters in this historical-fiction are Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas and Binh, the Vietnamese cook they take in at their famed Paris Studio. In addition, there are a ton of other intrigu First off, Monique Truong is a super talented author and I will happily look for more of her books. Unfortunately, The Book of Salt is filled with all three of my Sleepy Read Triggers: religion (Catholicism in particular), cooking minutiae (Babette's Feast, zzzzzzzzz), and magical realism. The three main characters in this historical-fiction are Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas and Binh, the Vietnamese cook they take in at their famed Paris Studio. In addition, there are a ton of other intriguing characters, narrator Binh's family members, former employers, love interests, and various men he meets on boats and bridges (most of whom seemed to be love interests, but I got too confused to say so for certain). None of these people were introduced in a chronological order, their stories were all layered and interrupted, and then re-introduced in a pseudo-rhythmic manner with various constant and repeated refrains - all of which I think was meant to reference GertrudeStein's non-linear style, but which did not really appeal to me personally. ...more<---C>Monique Truong</---C>", "Title": "The Book of Salt"},
