{"Comments": "It was extremely hard thinking of Eric Northman, 6'4\",<---M> blonde with blue eyes</---M>, need I mention a super gorgeous hunk, a vampire, and Sheriff of Louisiana Area 5, an entrepreneur (<---B>owner of bar Fangtasia</---B>) in a PINK LYCRA especially when I pictured him as Alexander Skarsg\u00e5rd who looks like this But imagining the bulge his would form, Eric Northman in a pink lycra doesn't seem like a bad idea.<---F> I think I'm pro pink lycras</---F>. Especially if someone this hot would wear them. I even think I should advocate t It was extremely hard thinking of Eric Northman, 6'4\", blonde with blue eyes, need I mention a super gorgeous hunk, a vampire, and Sheriff of Louisiana Area 5, an entrepreneur (owner of bar Fangtasia) in a PINK LYCRA especially when I pictured him as Alexander Skarsg\u00e5rd who looks like this But imagining the bulge his would form, Eric Northman in a pink lycra doesn't seem like a bad idea. I think I'm pro pink lycras. Especially if someone this hot would wear them. I even think I should advocate the wearing of lycras on men. *drool* Hmm, well maybe not in pink, but in more manly colors :)) ___ Dead in Dallas, the second installment of the <---C>Sookie Stackhouse</---C> series by <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A>, is an entertaining quick read. I'm not a big fan of Charlaine Harris' writing style, but I have to admit, the lady has a great imagination. This book, practically covers up the entire second season of True Blood. But don't think that it's basically the same, because it's not. It's different in a way the the TV series has more drama. But still, as I said, the book was very entertaining. Sookie Stackhouse is attacked by a maenad, a worshiper of the God of wine and all things crazy, as a message to Eric Northman. After Sookie being healed, she is lent to the Dallas vampire sheriff, to read the humans who might have seen the missing vampire Farrell. But the search becomes complicated as they end up searching at the religious group, Fellowship of the Sun with a century old suicidal vampire as an ally. After fixing the Dallas affair, Sookie goes off with Eric Northman (yes, in a pink Lycra) to an orgy, to find LaFayette's murderer. But, not only do they find LaFayette's murderer, they also manage to be in the middle of the maenad's frenzy. The main reason why I'm reading this, is because it's agonizing to wait for every season of True Blood in HBO to come, since it's painstakingly long. It's pure torture. I'm not a big fan of the books, but, if Charlaine Harris makes me imagine men in more pink Lycras, I think this will soon be my favorite series :)) ...more DNF 47% I\u2019m done with this series. The first book was weird enough as it is, but this one is just too much for me. Nothing makes sense and at 47%, I still haven\u2019t found a plot. Here\u2019s a list of things I have a problem with: 1. This series is weird . 2. Everyone treats Sookie as if she is Bill\u2019s possession. Even worse: a pet. 3. Bill goes along with it. 4. So does Sookie. 5. Bill is one of the worst boyfriends I have ever met. He is boring, possessive and never fails to get Sookie into trouble. Plus, he DNF 47% I\u2019m done with this series. The first book was weird enough as it is, but this one is just too much for me. Nothing makes sense and at 47%, I still haven\u2019t found a plot. Here\u2019s a list of things I have a problem with: 1.\tThis series is weird . 2.\tEveryone treats Sookie as if she is Bill\u2019s possession. Even worse: a pet. 3.\tBill goes along with it. 4.\tSo does Sookie. 5.\tBill is one of the worst boyfriends I have ever met. He is boring, possessive and never fails to get Sookie into trouble. Plus, he only cares about sleeping with Sookie and drinking her blood (which automatically leads to sleeping with Sookie). 6.\tSookie lets him. Sookie in Book #1: \u201cHi. I\u2019m Sookie. I\u2019m a virgin.\u201d Sookie in Book #2: \u201cSexsexsexsexsex.\u201d This is not even an exaggeration. Here is a lovely quote from Miss Sookie Stackhouse: \u201cIf we could just get out of here right now, I promised myself I\u2019d never come back. I\u2019d give up this detecting for the vampires, I\u2019d just tend bar and sleep with Bill.\u201d Do I even need to elaborate on how wrong this is? Because to Sookie, a good life is being a waitress and sleeping with her dead boyfriend. Amazing how ignorant some people can be. 7.\tBill doesn\u2019t give his girlfriend small presents like flowers or chocolates. He just says, \u201cThe vampires want my woman well. So now I own a clothing shop. Go buy some clothes with my card.\u201d 8.\tSookie won\u2019t stop talking about her bloody boobs. 9.\tNeither will anyone else. They all lust after her curvaceous curves. 10.\tAnother guy kisses her. No big deal. 11. She sticks her keys in her thong. It\u2019s one thing to let your boyfriend decide that you can\u2019t carry around a purse. But then I\u2019d put the keys in my bra, not in my bloody thong. That just cannot be comfortable. And then he\u2019s all pervy about it, like, \u201cOh why don\u2019t you get your keys out.\u201d Real charmer, that Bill. Why don\u2019t you go suck on some roadkill. ...more 2.5 Stars Sookie fucking Stackhouse!! I\u2019ll let you know a little secret, ladies: No matter how great with a capital \"G\" your boobs are, you will never attract every man and woman who ever meets you UNLESS you are Sookie fucking Stackhouse!! If you are Sookie fucking Stackhouse no one, and I mean NO ONE, will be able to resist you... *eyeroll* Easily my least favourite part of this story is the main character, I just cannot relate to Sookie at all. She bothers me. And whilst an element of that is si 2.5 Stars Sookie fucking Stackhouse!! I\u2019ll let you know a little secret, ladies: No matter how great with a capital \"G\" your boobs are, you will never attract every man and woman who ever meets you UNLESS you are Sookie fucking Stackhouse!! If you are Sookie fucking Stackhouse no one, and I mean NO ONE, will be able to resist you... *eyeroll* Easily my least favourite part of this story is the main character, I just cannot relate to Sookie at all. She bothers me. And whilst an element of that is simple stupidity ( I don't care how many times you TELL me she is smart\u2026. I require that you SHOW me a character has a brain in her head to believe it, Harris) a larger part is that she reads very \"ist\" to me. By that I mean sexist, ageist, racist\u2026. And homophobic \u2013 not an \"ist\", I know \u2013 and that bothers me! Okay, okay... yes this is set in the South, yes I understand there is still a great deal of all of the above there (even today), yes I do get that it would read very utopian to avoid all such behavior.. BUT I don\u2019t give a shit, I don't like it, mmkay. I especially don't like that she is made out to seem so understanding \u2013 and even calls her brother out on being a homophobe \u2013 when she herself is a bigot! Just because you are dating a vampire doesn't make you less of a judgemental fuck, Sookie! Once again Bill drove me batshit. He\u2019s a lousy love interest. Once again the writing was poor at best, prudish and boring at worst. Once again the secondary characters were one dimensional and stereotypical. Once again the plotline was a thinly veiled \"murder-mystery\" designed to throw love interests together. All new grievance: I HATED the way Godric was represented in the book. I find myself unbelievably pleased that the show went a different way with him. (Although minor, he is one of my favourite characters in the show) However, I did genuinely laugh at a few scenes (Especially THAT scene, Sh3lly, you know what I\u2019m talking about! Lol). And while I have to say that I do believe show Eric will always usurp book Eric I did find enjoyment in his character here. Good night, Sookie. I am glad you weren\u2019t raped or killed ...more Vampire Bill is a dud. But otherwise I really enjoyed this book, it was better than the first. I was dying laughing during most of the orgy scene...who knew Eric was so funny? Perfect vacation reading. Added bonus, I read this on the plane last night from Minneapolis to the Dallas/Fort Worth airport. Very appropriate. :) Another wonderful Sookie Stackhouse outing, fast-paced and never flagging. This one sees Sookie and Bill sent by Eric to Dallas because he's \"rented\" her out to the nest leader there, Stan, so she can use her telepathic gift to find out what happened to a missing vampire. This leads to the Fellowship, a truly scary psuedo-Christian cult that's very anti-vampire. There's also a scary Maenad hanging around the woods at home, demanding tribute, and poor Lafayette, the flamboyantly gay cook from the Another wonderful Sookie Stackhouse outing, fast-paced and never flagging. This one sees Sookie and Bill sent by Eric to Dallas because he's \"rented\" her out to the nest leader there, Stan, so she can use her telepathic gift to find out what happened to a missing vampire. This leads to the Fellowship, a truly scary psuedo-Christian cult that's very anti-vampire. There's also a scary Maenad hanging around the woods at home, demanding tribute, and poor Lafayette, the flamboyantly gay cook from the bar where Sookie works, turns up dead in Andy Bellefleur's car and Sookie's determined to find out who killed him. Mystery, excitement, a bit of violence, some steamy make-up sex and new additions to the eccentric and ecclectic cast don't throw Sookie off her stride. As a character she's great, not the least bit annoying and totally understandable, despite being in an alien situation. As long as Sookie keeps it up, I can't see myself getting bored with these books. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Most people who have read this series, at the very least, like portions of it. They like the first 3 or 4 installments, but then they get bored, or after the 3rd or 4th book, the series really started picking up for them. I\u2019m weird, I guess. I pretty much liked the entire series right up until the end. Sure, how much I liked each book varied\u2014for example, except for the last book, this one is my LEAST favorite, but that\u2019s not uncommon, what with this being book 2 and all. It Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Most people who have read this series, at the very least, like portions of it. They like the first 3 or 4 installments, but then they get bored, or after the 3rd or 4th book, the series really started picking up for them. I\u2019m weird, I guess. I pretty much liked the entire series right up until the end. Sure, how much I liked each book varied\u2014for example, except for the last book, this one is my LEAST favorite, but that\u2019s not uncommon, what with this being book 2 and all. It definitely has its good moments (like when Eric gets shot and that thing happens that is hilarious and awesome), but overall . . . MEH. <+++>Living Dead in Dallas</+++> begins with Sookie finding a dead Lafayette in Andy Bellefleur\u2019s car in the parking lot of Merlotte\u2019s one morning. What do you mean, \u201ca dead Lafayette?!\u201d you ask. \u201cLafayette can\u2019t be DEAD, he\u2019s still going strong in season 6 of True Blood !\u201d Let me introduce you to a little game I like to play called \u201cSame and NOT the Same.\u201d SO. Andy\u2019s been drinking, \u2019cause you know, being a cop is hard, and Sookie has to call Portia (his sister) to come and pick him up. Leaving his car at the bar. For persons unknown to leave a dead body in. But why would someone want to kill Lafayette? He\u2019s so much fun! Yeah, well, he\u2019s also got a BIG mouth. A BIG mouth that he\u2019s apparently been running about a house he\u2019d been going to, \u201c where there were all kinds of sex hi-jinks going on ,\u201d and someone didn\u2019t like that. Someone didn\u2019t like that a lot . So poor Sook\u2019s stressed out about that. Then when she gets home from work that night, Bill tells her that she\u2019s been \u201csummoned\u201d by Eric. Better and better. The next evening they drive to Shreveport, where Eric informs her that she\u2019s been LOANED out to vampires in Dallas who could use some assistance of the telepathic variety. AND while Sookie\u2019s understandably upset about Eric\u2019s high-handedness, there\u2019s really not much she can do about it\u2014she did , after all, agree to help him any time he wanted, in exchange for turning over human culprits to human authorities, rather than taking matters into their vampire hands. I suppose it\u2019s her own fault for not specifying she wouldn\u2019t stand for being loaned out. You live and you learn, I guess. Freakin\u2019 vampires. And that is how Bill and Sookie wind up on an airplane bound for Dallas. I\u2019ve already said that this is probably my least favorite book in the series until you get to end, and that is b/c . . . while I don\u2019t have a problem with kink, I do have a problem with gross, middle-aged, pervy kink. And this group is just . . . blech. I also have a problem with centuries-old, pedophile vampires. Actually, I have a problem with ALL types of pedophiles, so even contemplating one that has been doing what they do FOR SO FREAKING LONG<\u2014\u2014well, clearly, it\u2019s upsetting. AND all of the Bill and Sookie relationship angst from book 1 grows and flourishes in book 2 (and relationship angst is not something you want growing and flourishing). This is also the book where you get your first glimpse of how self-absorbed Bill can be. This book is also where you get your first glimpse of how attentive someone-not-Bill can be. *winks* And that\u2019s really the only sell point for this installment. Well, that, and it\u2019s necessary to read this one to get to the good ones. BOTTOMLINE\u2014too much perv for one book. Read it b/c you can\u2019t move forward without it, but go into it knowing that there is some seriously disturbing stuff going on. That is all. My other reviews for this series: Dead Until Dark (Sookie Stackhouse #1) ...more I almost forgot what an uptight bore Bill is. But I surely remember the glory that is Eric Northman... Despite having a solid story that ends with a massacre, a theme that explores radical groups and the evil of humanity (not of the monsters) there are still 100 pages left to talk about the new types of myths that are roaming the earth... Sookie's world is suddenly getting stuffy, but with each new development, the reader understands that the books will take liberties that will truly surprise. The adventures are becoming less structured... episodic. I am pretty excited to continue reading about t Despite having a solid story that ends with a massacre, a theme that explores radical groups and the evil of humanity (not of the monsters) there are still 100 pages left to talk about the new types of myths that are roaming the earth... Sookie's world is suddenly getting stuffy, but with each new development, the reader understands that the books will take liberties that will truly surprise. The adventures are becoming less structured... episodic. I am pretty excited to continue reading about this heroine who is becoming surprisingly less shy & actually almost slutty at times. If your boyfriend was a vampire, wouldn't you be? ...more Perseverance pays off, especially when reading this series. After I completed Dead Until Dark, I was hesitant to continue on with the second installment. However, I had made a promise to a friend to stick it out, and I had already purchased the book, so I got comfortable and braced myself for the impending doom. At first, my fears were realized. Sookie was still dingy, annoying, and cried at least four times in the first 30 pages. My outlook was grim, but I prevailed on in hopes that the small g Perseverance pays off, especially when reading this series. After I completed Dead Until Dark, I was hesitant to continue on with the second installment. However, I had made a promise to a friend to stick it out, and I had already purchased the book, so I got comfortable and braced myself for the impending doom. At first, my fears were realized. Sookie was still dingy, annoying, and cried at least four times in the first 30 pages. My outlook was grim, but I prevailed on in hopes that the small glimpse of Eric provided within the first few chapters would escalate into a consistent presence and that Dallas would prove to be a more intriguing setting than Bon Temps. I got my wish. <+++>Living Dead in Dallas</+++> was a drastic improvement over its predecessor for a few reasons. First, Sookie was much less grating in this installment. She is still prone to emotional breakdowns (crying), false and borderline obnoxious displays of sarcasm, bravado and wit. Moreover, she is unfortunately still attached to the creepy and condescending Bill Compton. However, I admire her ability to stand her ground against the supernatural forces that surround her and she can be funny at times, though I tend to laugh at her as opposed to laughing with her. If she could only refrain from mentioning her boobs and long blonde hair, I just might be able to stand her. Second, Harris must have recognized what a gem she had in Eric as he has a commanding presence and quite a large role in Living Dead in Dallas. He continues to steal every scene he is in and is worth reading this series for. He is absolutely hilarious and sultry and just all together drool worthy. His only flaw being that he, like every other guy in this series, is lusting after Sookie. Lastly, the plot improved by leaps and bounds, though it is still lacking. I was kinda bored with the mainstreaming vampires in Dead Until Dark. I like my supernatural beings to cause a little mayhem, not rely on insane humans to create their havoc for them. Harris didn\u2019t disappoint. In addition to Vampires, readers are introduced to Shape shifters, Werewolves and a Maenad. Throw in a cult of radical Vampire haters and a few Bon Tempers with uh; eclectic tastes and you\u2019ve got Living Dead in Dallas. I am now looking forward to see what Sookie is in for next. I\u2019m crossing my fingers that it has something to do with Eric ,that Bill will meet an unfortunate end, and that Sookie will develop a personality outside of her primal urges, breasts, and hair. ...more 2.5 stars WHY WHY WHY did I feel the need to buy this entire series of books? Now I have to read all of them, and this is only book 2. And honestly, I read this 8 months ago and cannot remember much about it at all. But since I cannot leave books unreviewed (any time I have a book with unreviewed space, it glares at me and glares at me until I cave), I need to figure out how to review this thing. So here goes: TRUTHS ABOUT LIVING DEAD IN DALLAS Truth #1: Dead Until Dark is better. I did not love Har 2.5 stars WHY WHY WHY did I feel the need to buy this entire series of books? Now I have to read all of them, and this is only book 2. And honestly, I read this 8 months ago and cannot remember much about it at all. But since I cannot leave books unreviewed (any time I have a book with unreviewed space, it glares at me and glares at me until I cave), I need to figure out how to review this thing. So here goes: TRUTHS ABOUT LIVING DEAD IN DALLAS Truth #1: Dead Until Dark is better. I did not love Harris' first installment of the Sookie Stackhouse mysteries, but it was better than this one. I read that one years ago and still remember it more than I remember what happened in this one. And I think that says more than words can, doesn't it? The mystery plot of the first one was better and more interesting. It had that home town Bon Temps feel to it. Plus it had more Sam. And Lafayette was still alive. Truth #2: The TV show is better. Not only is there some amazing eye candy in the TV show, the writing is better, the plot is tighter, and the characters are not only less contrived, they are really intricate, detailed, dynamic, interesting, and loads of fun. Not only did the show make the decision to keep Lafayette alive, but they turned him into one of my favorite television characters ever. Godric/Godfrey, another favorite character on the show, was lackluster and dull in this installment. Even the vampires were stupid. The second season of the show is actually my favorite. Because that whole maenad/Marianne plotline was SO. WELL. DONE. It was NOT in this. We meet Tara in this installment, as well as Eggs. But if you are expecting Tara and Eggs from the show you will be sorely disappointed. It is almost as if the creators of the show thought to themselves \"hey, this series may be hokey and contrived, but lets revamp it a bit and make it shine.\" And that's exactly what it looks like. Characters in the book are stripped down to their cores and made way more interesting. Plotlines are flipped upside down and reanimated. While reading this, I was definitely reminded of the show, but in a bare bones kinda way. The book just seemed boring and shallow in comparison. Even the whole Fellowship of the Sun plotline was so much better in the show with the addition of Jason (who has next to no real-estate in either book). In this it just seemed stupid and contrived. Truth #3: I still don't get the whole \"Eric Northman is hot\" thing. Sorry Shelly and my other Viking acolytes. I think he's a dick. There's nothing sexy about him in this book. Alexander makes him kinda enticing on the show, but when you compare this with this The wolf is going to win in my book. EVERY. SINGLE. TIME. Truth #4: Sookie still sucks. Oh god could we get a more horrible heroine? Maybe that's ultimately why I don't like this series. You're supposed to care about the heroine and hope she doesn't die. I found myself not caring. Because she is a shallow, dumb, self-absorbed, and utterly clueless speshul snowflake. In fact, I don't think I've ever met a snowflake more fucking speshul than Sookie fucking Stackhouse. Truth #5: I still hate Sookie and Bill. Like so much. Their sex scenes suck and are completely robotic. So I can't even get into the smexy times of this book. Confession: I actually enjoyed Bill on the show. I actually enjoyed Sookie and Bill on the show. Because Anna Paquin and Stephen Moyer did a great job of making their characters likeable. And they had some really steamy chemistry (they are married after all) that made me get behind them as a couple. But Bill in the book? Yawn. Sookie in the book? Rage. Sookie and Bill in the book: Eye roll. Maybe that part will be better in subsequent books since I know they break up in book 3. And though I know she eventually gets with the second most boring character, Mr. Eric Northman, perhaps their sex scenes will be hotter. Maybe? I mean, Sookie will pretty much fuck anything with fangs, right? Yes, Miss Stackhouse. Yes I do. I gave this a 2.5 for the simple fact that its readable. I breezed through it quickly, and though there isn't anything to make my gears turn, there are some fun parts. I'll read book 3 eventually because I own it. And I enjoyed Russell Edgington and Sophie-Anne immensely. And of course, my homegirl Jessica. And the wolf himself. ...more Quick thoughts here, since I probably won't bother to do a full review. I liked this better than the first. It was another quick read. There was less slow, Southern charm and humor, less of a chick-lit focus on hair and clothes and working in the bar (although that's still in there). Instead, there are two mysteries in two locations, and we get more exposure to the worlds of vampires and shape-shifters, and I finally got to know what the fuss about Eric is all about - or at least I'm starting to Quick thoughts here, since I probably won't bother to do a full review. I liked this better than the first. It was another quick read. There was less slow, Southern charm and humor, less of a chick-lit focus on hair and clothes and working in the bar (although that's still in there). Instead, there are two mysteries in two locations, and we get more exposure to the worlds of vampires and shape-shifters, and I finally got to know what the fuss about Eric is all about - or at least I'm starting to get it. So far, there are at least three love interests for Sookie, and at this point I believe she's with the wrong guy. Not that Bill isn't... nice, but she has way more of a connection with both Sam and Eric than Bill. Bill is still really generic, other than being super protective. I'm having fun with this series, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who wants to take things too seriously. Or to anyone who objects to a lot of romantic elements. Sookie is in the midst of multiple romances, that's one thing for sure. ...more Equally as terrible as the first book, if not worse. Sookie continues to have as little personality as previously, alternating between lusting cheaply after anyone male who crosses her path, indulging herself in weeping sessions over the pain of her unasked- for super-abilities and talking about clothes. Luckily her vampire boyfriend, despite being 150+ years old, is dumbstruck by the sight of a blonde in a thong and therefore continues to have regular unpleasant sex with her, whilst pimping her Equally as terrible as the first book, if not worse. Sookie continues to have as little personality as previously, alternating between lusting cheaply after anyone male who crosses her path, indulging herself in weeping sessions over the pain of her unasked- for super-abilities and talking about clothes. Luckily her vampire boyfriend, despite being 150+ years old, is dumbstruck by the sight of a blonde in a thong and therefore continues to have regular unpleasant sex with her, whilst pimping her mind-reading abilities out to his boss. The only notable thing this book achieves is to include one of most awful sex scenes ever written. If you don't see summat wrong with this then there's some part of your mind or soul missing: \"He cleaned me below; he kissed me above. \"You smell like him\" was the only thing he said. He proceeded to erase that smell and replace it with his own.\" This same scene begins with Bill, who has spent the last few weeks being deliberately seen with another woman, suddenly assaulting Sookie in her home. He then proceeds to tell Sookie to open her legs for him, and dismisses her request that he be gentle as impossible. Luckily for him Sookie has never heard of rape, and spends the scene being pleased that the bedsheets are nice and clean. Outside of this unpleasantness are two plots, one clumsily wedged inside the other. The first, split between the first and last quarters of the book, is a lazy murder plot with an obvious solution, which occasions Sookie having to attend an orgy. Having obtained an invitation by standing around doing nowt until someone asks her, she then trots along in the company of Eric the Vampire, who is dressed as an outdated gay stereotype for plot reasons and in order that Sookie can comment on various parts of his body repeatedly. Sookie makes a few comments on the underwear of various participants, and then the Deus ex Machina arives. As her \"character\" and \"motivation\" were totally explained in Chapter 2, at a point before it was physically possible to have any interest in her, this completely dispenses with any suspense or interest whatsoever. The middle section of the book is taken up with some more descriptions of Sookie\u2019s clothes and a dull kidnap plot featuring a self-hating vampire whose ramblings on the nature of good and evil, innocence and guilt and whether Sookie or anyone else \u201cdeserves\u201d life or death are brought up short by the following: \"I am not evil, and I don't want to die.\" \"When was the last time you were in church?\" He was issuing me a challenge. \"About a week ago. And I took Communion, too.\" I was never happier to be a churchgoer, because I couldn't have lied about that. \"Oh.\" Godfrey looked dumbfounded. \"See?\" Godfrey does indeed see. Presumably if Sookie had not been a regular church-goer he would\u2019ve been happy to see her burn at the stake. Which I can only assume Harris would consider reasonable, since she sees no need for further debate. The high-point of the drama comes when, having escaped from what even she realised was a rape and survived a massive car crash, Sookie discovers that her hair has become disarranged during her travails. Her mortification knows no bounds: \"Oh, no,\" I said, absolutely horrified. \"Oh, no.\" My hair had been flattened by the wig, and then combed out with my fingers, so it was a disaster. My hands went up to it, helplessly and painfully, and my mouth shook with suppressed tears. Luckily the man she is currently nearest to and therefore lusting after forgives her this social faux pas. After this horror she returns to Bon Temps to conclude the abovementioned murder mystery. I will say this for Sookie. If nothing else, her shallowness runs deep. ...more The second installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series, and a bit of a struggle for the author, I think, to figure out exactly which way she was headed with the series. Sookie and Bill start to have a few more misunderstandings and a major row and have to decide whether they will continue their relationship. It\u2019s unclear to me whether vampires in this series have emotions or are just possessive\u2014maybe book 3 will clear that up for me. The fact that she is \u201cloaned out\u201d to the Dallas vampires to he The second installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series, and a bit of a struggle for the author, I think, to figure out exactly which way she was headed with the series. Sookie and Bill start to have a few more misunderstandings and a major row and have to decide whether they will continue their relationship. It\u2019s unclear to me whether vampires in this series have emotions or are just possessive\u2014maybe book 3 will clear that up for me. The fact that she is \u201cloaned out\u201d to the Dallas vampires to help them solve a missing-vampire case rather emphasizes the human-as-chattel idea, making me question Bill\u2019s motivations. Meanwhile, we get to know Bill\u2019s vampire boss, Eric, a little better and frankly I\u2019m starting to wonder why Sookie chooses Bill over Eric. Yet another reason to read book three. By book\u2019s end, we see Bill being forcibly reminded of his human past and genetic ties to the living, and at that moment, I understand Sookie\u2019s attraction to him. Also introduced is the anti-vampire Fellowship of the Sun association. Sookie gets a lot of physical abuse in this installment (much of it at the Fellowship\u2019s hands), and it seems to me that her vampiric associates should be doing a much better job of protecting their investment! The Fellowship of the Sun has great potential, which I hope to see realized in upcoming books. Despite (or many even because of) my doubts and reservations, I look forward to having time to read the next book. ...more Opening Line: Andy Bellefleur was drunk as a skunk.\" This was another super entertaining read; combining fantasy, action, romance and mystery that you\u2019ll find difficult to put down. With book #2 we return to small town Louisiana and telepathic waitress Sookie Stackhouse, who's still slinging beers for shapeshifter Sam and spending time with boyfriend Bill the vampire. Their relationship continues to evolve with anger and jealousies surfacing here, and even though for the most part Bill is still s Opening Line: Andy Bellefleur was drunk as a skunk.\" This was another super entertaining read; combining fantasy, action, romance and mystery that you\u2019ll find difficult to put down. With book #2 we return to small town Louisiana and telepathic waitress Sookie Stackhouse, who's still slinging beers for shapeshifter Sam and spending time with boyfriend Bill the vampire. Their relationship continues to evolve with anger and jealousies surfacing here, and even though for the most part Bill is still sweet to Sookie his undisputed predator tendencies also make an appearance. It doesn\u2019t take long for Sookie\u2019s adventures start up again when a co-worker with ties to a sex club is murdered. (This sub plot then takes a back seat returning later in the book) Soon after Sookie gets attacked by a mystical female creature which requires the assistance of Eric (and others) to suck the poison from her body. Eric then \u2018loans\u2019 Sookie out to the Dallas Vampires to aid in the search for a missing vamp. Sookie feels obligated to comply, taking Bill along as her bodyguard. (He flies as cargo in a coffin) And that\u2019s when things get really crazy. With a new nest of vampires to deal with as well as assorted religious fanatics and several aggressive werewolves Dallas isn\u2019t going to be any vacation. Sexy and cheeky Eric makes a welcome appearance here and I really enjoyed getting to know him better. I\u2019m very curious to see how this immerging love triangle plays out. Despite the progression of Sookie into the supernatural world, which at times made her feel like a clumsy super hero I still found her relatable enough that I was able to discover everything right along with her. Sookie does get injured a lot in this book however and I kept wondering why she refused to take Vampire blood. I mean if she\u2019s going to continue playing in the vampire world she's going to need all the strength she can get so its a no-brainer really as it speeds up healing and gives humans increased power. As much as I\u2019m enjoying this series I guess I should have taken a closer look at the spine of this book because with this instalment Charlaine Harris switches from paranormal romance to more urban fantasy, which was a real disappointment to me. I always struggle with UF, preferring my romance front and center, without the now present fade-to-black love scenes (I want in on the steamy action) I also tend to glaze over when too many fantastical creatures are introduced and this worried me early on here with the introduction of the 'maenad' and her razorback pig companion. Luckily Harris keeps it to a minimum. Now this is not to say that I didn\u2019t enjoy LDID, I did and plan to continue on with the series I was just thrown off by the abrupt genre switch from book#1. It also felt to me like Harris wrote the first and last parts of this book together and then inserted the middle (Dallas) section afterwards. I mention this because as soon as Sookie returns home to Bon Temps from her Dallas adventure we start getting back-story information dumps again, as we\u2019d had in the beginning chapters, rehashing Harris\u2019s vampire world rules and events that took place in Dead Until Dark . This felt very strange to me especially in the last quarter of the book. The Dallas section also felt removed from the rest of the story and in all honesty except for the scenes with Eric I didn\u2019t enjoy it very much. Anyways I\u2019m ranting here. ...more \"Your lips are bloody.\" He seized my face in both hands and kissed me. It's hard not to respond when a master of the art of kissing is laying one on you. The best part of this book is every scene Eric Northman is in. While this one was definitely better than the first book, it wasn't as good as it was the first few times I read it. Definitely not a 5-star book, as I originally rated it. This one has two main plots which are separate from each other: the maenad coming to Bon Temps and the encounter \"Your lips are bloody.\" He seized my face in both hands and kissed me. It's hard not to respond when a master of the art of kissing is laying one on you. The best part of this book is every scene Eric Northman is in. While this one was definitely better than the first book, it wasn't as good as it was the first few times I read it. Definitely not a 5-star book, as I originally rated it. This one has two main plots which are separate from each other: the maenad coming to Bon Temps and the encounter with the Fellowship of the Sun in Dallas. Sookie gets \"loaned out\" by Eric to use her telepathy to help a nest in Dallas, led by vampire uber-nerd, Stan. Neither storylines are overly gripping (I did like the scenes with Stan), but there are some stand out moments. Book Steve and Sarah Newlin are cardboard cut-outs compared to the hilarious Newlins on True Blood. I much prefer what they did with Godric on the show as well (called Godfrey here). My favorite scene (besides the bullet-sucking one) was when Eric goes to the \"orgy\" near the end with Sookie. I probably won't re-read this one again, but I still give it three Eric Northman stars. ...more It was a fast, engaging read. Different, in details, from the series, but the feel is the same. It's an interesting world that Harris has created. She brings up some well thought out points about how a vampire would differ from a normal human. It's certainly not high literature, but an awful lot of fun. Qu\u00e9 voy a decir, salvo que me ha gustado? Y, aunque me ha parecido que no estaba al nivel del primero, me ha conquistado! A por el tercero...!!! Living Dead in Dallas 4 Stars Sookie Stackhouse is settling into life as the girlfriend of a vampire when she has a streak of bad luck. First, the body of the short order cook at Merlotte's is found in the local detective's car. Then she is attacked by a deadly creature in the woods, and finally, she must travel to Dallas and use her telepathy to hope the locals find their missing nest mate - that is if she can survive the experience. Note: It is my understanding that 2nd season of True Blood is l Living Dead in Dallas 4 Stars Sookie Stackhouse is settling into life as the girlfriend of a vampire when she has a streak of bad luck. First, the body of the short order cook at Merlotte's is found in the local detective's car. Then she is attacked by a deadly creature in the woods, and finally, she must travel to Dallas and use her telepathy to hope the locals find their missing nest mate - that is if she can survive the experience. Note: It is my understanding that 2nd season of True Blood is loosely based on this installment in the Southern Vampire series. However, this review is of the book only as I stopped watching the sex-fest after season 1. While Living Dead in Dallas is a fun follow up, the book focuses on the thread that takes place in Texas, and the other two storylines are woefully underdeveloped. The investigation into the disappearance of the Texan vampire is compelling as Sookie becomes acquainted with a different set of \"living dead\" as well as a host of other supernatural beings. The action is front and center with several \"edge of your seat\" moments, and the underlying message regarding prejudice and fanaticism is particularly apropos in the current political climate around the world. Unfortunately, the other two threads involving the question of who killed Lafayette and the threat posed by the poisonous Maenad feel like an afterthought. Sookie more or less stumbles across the culprits by accident, and the final confrontation is decidedly sick and creepy with a confusing resolution - (view spoiler) [Did Callisto kill the murderous trio or did they kill each other after she drove them insane? (hide spoiler) ] The real highlight of the book is the character development as Sookie comes to terms with Bill's true nature (for me, his questionable behavior precludes him from being a suitable love interest), and learns that there is more to Erik than meets the eye (whoever would have thought that a Viking warrior would look good in Spandex?). In sum, Harris is very skilled at mixing dark and gritty themes with delightful humor and engaging characters, and her Sookie books are not exception. Looking forward to the next one. ...more Once again..... I don't know WHY I read this book.... I was hoping that the Authoress would have expanded her imagination a bit and maybe improved her writing skills, but it didn't happen. I'm two into the series and I'm kinda anxious to see what happens with Erik and Sookie, so I happened to put a hold for the next 3 books at the library.... we'll see if I make it that far. These books don't take long to read. The first book was all murder murder murder.... blah blah blah... they solved the prob Once again..... I don't know WHY I read this book.... I was hoping that the Authoress would have expanded her imagination a bit and maybe improved her writing skills, but it didn't happen. I'm two into the series and I'm kinda anxious to see what happens with Erik and Sookie, so I happened to put a hold for the next 3 books at the library.... we'll see if I make it that far. These books don't take long to read. The first book was all murder murder murder.... blah blah blah... they solved the problem and everyone moves on. The second book picks up where the first leaves off, but not without a considerable amount of lenghy recap... like anyone reading this book, being the second in the series, would need all of that?! Seriouslly.... ok, so it gets going and then BAM! a murder. Whoopdeedoo..... Then out of now where, Sookie and Bill get in a fight... again.... whoopdeedoo... However, the interesting climax to the fight was Sookie storming off into the woods alone, getting attacked by a Greek mythical creature and then Bill having to find her, take her to Erik where they and 2 other Vampires had to suck out all the poison in Sookies blood and then give her a transfusion... oh they did this to her naked...Why? Bill seems to be addicted to sex with Sookie... because even when she is banged up and hurt,feeling human, needing sleep, ect... he doesn't seems to care (or maybe it doesn't take him too long to finish, whatever) and makes her do the deed anyway. Sookie and Bill get loaned out to the Dallas vampires to help locate a missing \"brother\" while Bill is sleeping, of course, Sookie gets into trouble and having to rely on the help of a suicidal vampire and shapeshifters. This was actually a pretty good part of the book mainly because Bill wasn't involved. At the end of the Dallas ordeal, Erik is the one that is \"there\" for her when she is thrown out of the car... seriouslly, this guy has an obsession with Sookie that only gets all too interesting. He gets her cleaned up, doctored and then Bill comes in.... pansy... and what does he want to do after Erik leaves? yeah.... addidicted pansy. The next night they went to a vampire party to celebrate the brother being returned, Erik was talking with Sookie on the couch, because obviouslly her injuries and health made it impossible for her to \"party\". So, Erik, being a gentleman, sat with her and visited, Bill was talking with another vampire lady... suddenly the house is attacked, Erik flings himself on Sookie to protect her, he takes a bullet for her, in which, after the turmoil ended she sucked out of him. Bill was no where to be found for a few minutes until he came back from chasing the humans that open fired, consequently killing a few of them. Sookie gets angry (understandably so), flies back to Shreveport alone and doesn't speak to Bill for 3 weeks afterwards. She is talking with friends when Bill gets mighty jealous goes to her house afterwards and ummm....shocker here... sexed her up a few times even though she pleaded with him to be nice, ect.... pansy. Bill finds himself needing to go back to Dallas (you know, to get away from the obvious danger Sookie is in again) She gets invited to a party (one that she will be able to determine the killer of the murder at the beginning of the book) Oh.. this party just happens to be an orgy...(Where is the imagination folks.....? I ask you, where??) Sex, murder, Sex, couple fighting, Sex, almost murder, almost raped, sex, lust, *hmm, I think I'll throw in an orgy!*, ORGY! stupid. Yeah, sure throw in an orgy, invite Erik along to protect Sookie, throw him in a horrible outfit to show off his huge-ness and then not do a thing to describe anything. Not that I'm complaining that I didn't have to read about the sex acts going on... I'm not. But if you are going to write about an orgy, you might as well write it. This author, I've noticed has a very limited vocabulary when it comes to writing her sex scenes....basically just telling enterance, the climax and the exit... Oh and the complaining from Sookie because half the time Bill is trying to have sex with her, she's hurt. Duh. Anyway, Erik and Sookie have some moments that maybe they shouldn't have had.... Go ahead and have them I say, Erik isn't a pansy. Bill just happens to show up the moment Sookie gets a conscience and tells Erik to get off... (if Bill would have only been there a few minutes earlier, LOL!) Anyway, the book hits another anti-climatic climax and then everything flows back to be normal.... Go ahead and red the book, but don't expect much from it. I'm guessing the HBO screen writers have done a better job with the story... guess I'll have to check it out sometime. ...more Sookie Stackhouse's life is as normal as a telepath can get. She has a vampire boyfriend, a house, a job, and friends. And then one day, the Merlotte's chef, Lafayette, turns up dead in Andy's car. Not to mention, she works for Eric on odd jobs, and he sends her to Dallas to do some investigating for the vampires. Once again, Sookie Stackhouse proves to be a (mostly) light-hearted, carefree paranormal series that is fun and fluffy and doesn't take itself too seriously. No, it isn't perfect. No, i Sookie Stackhouse's life is as normal as a telepath can get. She has a vampire boyfriend, a house, a job, and friends. And then one day, the Merlotte's chef, Lafayette, turns up dead in Andy's car. Not to mention, she works for Eric on odd jobs, and he sends her to Dallas to do some investigating for the vampires. Once again, Sookie Stackhouse proves to be a (mostly) light-hearted, carefree paranormal series that is fun and fluffy and doesn't take itself too seriously. No, it isn't perfect. No, it probably doesn't have the most unique spin on vampires or shapeshifters, nor will it be a ground-breaking treatise on humanity or being alive or whatever. But the Sookie Stackhouse series never purports to be that, and that's just all right with me. The characters continue to be lively and fun. Sookie is a pretty good narrator. I like how she keeps upbeat and is able to investigate withOUT being rude (unlike Anita - though in this book she starts to analyze handshakes like Anita would and I broke into an Anita Blake cold sweat). It was a shame to see Lafayette dead (I don't remember him TOO much from the previous book, but he did seem fun), but other characters get time to shine, most notably Eric. Eric is most definitely being paved to be Sookie's newest romantic interest, and while I typically hate romantic triangles, I'm actually rather intrigued with this one. Up to this point, I've actually liked Bill, but in this book, Bill is beginning to be a little dry and dull and, most importantly, dominating. Not to mention, I'm really starting to get irritated at how each book Sookie and Bill break up only to get back together in a few pages. Other characters shine as well, such as Sam, Andy, Portia, and newbie (and new favorite), Luna. The mystery is pretty good; I like how there were two plotlines that were predominant in this book, Lafayette's murder and Eric's assignment for Sookie. It is neat to watch Sookie use her talents and skills to solve crimes and try to keep people alive. One problem I did kinda have is one I often do with urban fantasy/paranormal novels: the reliance on rape/sexual assault for drama. In this book, bad guy Gabe tries to rape Sookie. Then Sookie goes to an orgy where she is felt up. This is not the first time Sookie has had to endure sexual assault or near rape in this series. Not to mention, it's odd how very little these events seem to affect Sookie long-term. I know \"Rule of Funny\" or \"It's a fun paranormal book, not a serious lit book!\", but none-the-less, Sookie has had to endure quite the trauma in just two books. It's weird that she hasn't shown any sign of this trauma other than bruises that quickly heal. Even with the road bumps, I still found this fun, I dare say, more fun than book 1. The characters are interesting, Harris is setting up a neat little world, and I can't wait to learn more (as long as Harris drops the idea of an executioner in this world - I do not want to see grumpy, sexist Anita Blake in this upbeat world!). I'll definitely be loading up book 3 in my iPod tonight! ...more Sookie Stackhouse is at it again, getting herself tangled up in all sorts of supernatural mischief involving vampires, werewolves, and now a maenad. These books are pure brain candy and a lot of fun with no literary pretensions. I enjoy the unique twists that stem from Harris's choice to set her vampire tales in the South (and not the South of antebellum aristocrats, but borderline trailer-trash South) and have vampires attempting to mainstream into society after being recognized as citizens by Sookie Stackhouse is at it again, getting herself tangled up in all sorts of supernatural mischief involving vampires, werewolves, and now a maenad. These books are pure brain candy and a lot of fun with no literary pretensions. I enjoy the unique twists that stem from Harris's choice to set her vampire tales in the South (and not the South of antebellum aristocrats, but borderline trailer-trash South) and have vampires attempting to mainstream into society after being recognized as citizens by the U.S. government. While I enjoy the books and will continue reading the series, there were a few things that irked me enough to bump it down to a 3 star. Strangely, Sookie was one of the things that drew me to the series because she's not a helpless female so in love with a vampire that it consumes her entire sense of self. She's strong-willed and often gets herself into trouble during the daylight hours when Vampire Bill can't come to the rescue. She's resourceful and reliable. However, Harris seemed to backpedal a little bit here with Sookie. She's pouty when she doesn't get her way and seems too self-involved to really be likable (yes, yes, she's gorgeous and she knows it, we know it, the vampires know it--I don't need to hear her rhapsodize about how perky her boobs are or how her tan is holding up or about every freakin' article of clothing she puts on or takes off throughout the book). However, there are genuine flashes of humor throughout and Eric is definitely becoming a more fascinating character. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more I'm truly not crazy about this series... but for some reason I keep finding myself wanting to read them. I blame HBO entirely. I love the show, trashy as it may be. I find Sookie (in the books and show, but more so in the books) to be incredibly corny. She \"loves\" Bill, but thinks Eric is tasty, and Sam is also kiss-worthy. She's kind of a bimbo, yes? It's very odd for a television show to be better than the book(s) it is based on, but that seems to be the case here. The characters in the show ar I'm truly not crazy about this series... but for some reason I keep finding myself wanting to read them. I blame HBO entirely. I love the show, trashy as it may be. I find Sookie (in the books and show, but more so in the books) to be incredibly corny. She \"loves\" Bill, but thinks Eric is tasty, and Sam is also kiss-worthy. She's kind of a bimbo, yes? It's very odd for a television show to be better than the book(s) it is based on, but that seems to be the case here. The characters in the show are much better developed and more interesting. Eric, for example, is much darker in the show -- rather than just another guy (living or dead) who wants to get in Sookie's pants. I really miss Tara and Jason in the books, who get about three lines combined. The book version of Sam is also very dull. I have to give Charlaine Harris some credit, though, considering she is the one who came up with the basic concepts for seasons 1 and 2 of the show (time will tell if the show continues to follow suit). HBO undoubtedly hired an entire team of writers to flesh out the story. These books (from what I can tell of 1 and 2) are disposable but fun. I like to keep a couple of books \"in progress\" at the same time. When I need a break from emotionally or mentally challenging literature, I like to have something a bit more undemanding on hand. ...more Reading this again taught me how much better a writer Charlaine Harris is than the writers of the \"True Blood\" series on HBO. In the TV series, Bill's sheriff vampire, tall blond Eric, cries out to Sookie that he has two silver bullets in him and they must be removed immediately . They're in his shoulder and chest, and she had no surgical devices or tweezers, so she ends up sucking them out, getting Eric's blood in her mouth (which was his point). One of them is in Eric's breast, near the nipple, Reading this again taught me how much better a writer Charlaine Harris is than the writers of the \"True Blood\" series on HBO. In the TV series, Bill's sheriff vampire, tall blond Eric, cries out to Sookie that he has two silver bullets in him and they must be removed immediately . They're in his shoulder and chest, and she had no surgical devices or tweezers, so she ends up sucking them out, getting Eric's blood in her mouth (which was his point). One of them is in Eric's breast, near the nipple, which is what Sookie's doing when Bill arrives. In the book, Eric has only one bullet; Sookie gets a little blood in her mouth; it doesn't turn into a Roman carnival. The same with the maenad's arrival. The show turns it into days' worth of carousing by the entire population of Bontemps. In the book, it's an affair for Sam, the vampires (who owe her tribute), and a small, nasty sex club. It's nice to re-read the books along with the series to remind myself how sensible the characters really are. As for the show . . . I can't help myself. I'm so ashamed. ...more Still team Bill! Are there any ugly vampires??? I do not watch the television show, not even sure if it is still on, so I don't have any preconceived idea of what these characters look like.... but I'm just assuming they are all absolutely gorgeous, and then we have Sookie ... Who apparently no man or woman can resist, really??? And if this is really the case why is she with Bill? He just seems to be extremely boring.... Now onto the book, I did enjoy it, I did enjoy the mystery and I find the vampire politics in Are there any ugly vampires??? I do not watch the television show, not even sure if it is still on, so I don't have any preconceived idea of what these characters look like.... but I'm just assuming they are all absolutely gorgeous, and then we have Sookie ... Who apparently no man or woman can resist, really??? And if this is really the case why is she with Bill? He just seems to be extremely boring.... Now onto the book, I did enjoy it, I did enjoy the mystery and I find the vampire politics in this series interesting.... and you really do need to love the fact that there was a goddess to wine..... and then that little twist at the end, leaves you kind of wondering what is next... this is a series I am not completely sold on yet, will I continue? Not sure.... ...more OK, I was in the midst of a major \"pre-read-aphobia\" attack but at the insistence of my two children, I started this series. You see my \"phobia\" is somewhat common among avid readers. You know what I mean if you've ever gone to see a movie after having read the book and walked away severely disappointed because the film sacraficed some very salient points of the book for audience reaction to sex or blood. I'm glad to announce that the True Blood series went in a totally different direction from OK, I was in the midst of a major \"pre-read-aphobia\" attack but at the insistence of my two children, I started this series. You see my \"phobia\" is somewhat common among avid readers. You know what I mean if you've ever gone to see a movie after having read the book and walked away severely disappointed because the film sacraficed some very salient points of the book for audience reaction to sex or blood. I'm glad to announce that the True Blood series went in a totally different direction from the books. While I find the HBO series entirely enjoyable I find that the books are captivating. Ms. Harris has a wonderful tale to tell in her books that keep me reading and moving on to the next one in the series. Even when HBO follows the story line, there is so much more in the novel that go beyond the story. Yes, read them, watch the series but don't expect the two to follow one another. From what my kids tell me, the series currently has diverged so far from the original story line that it's an entirely different story. I've already delved into Club Dead (the next in the book series) and really enjoy it. Yes Bill is a vampire and Sookie is ... well, somthing else? lol Go ahead, I dare you! Read this series. :) ...more I really enjoyed this, especially all the interaction with Sookie and Eric...I actually liked their scenes together a lot more than Sookie's scenes with Bill! With Eric, it was always hot, or hilarious, or a combination of both! I can't wait for Sookie & Eric to eventually get together *fingers crossed* I also don't understand all the reviewer comments regarding too much sex - did I miss something? I didn't think there were many Sookie/Bill bedroom scenes, and I found the ones that were incl I really enjoyed this, especially all the interaction with Sookie and Eric...I actually liked their scenes together a lot more than Sookie's scenes with Bill! With Eric, it was always hot, or hilarious, or a combination of both! I can't wait for Sookie & Eric to eventually get together *fingers crossed* I also don't understand all the reviewer comments regarding too much sex - did I miss something? I didn't think there were many Sookie/Bill bedroom scenes, and I found the ones that were included to be very frustrating. They always ended too quickly and never had enough detail...like, all of a sudden, it's the next morning..huh?!? Some of you know what I mean here - Dead Until Dark (Book 1) had this aspect covered a LOT better! ;) Anyway, great paranormal mystery and I'll definitely continue with this series. ...more I managed to actually bloody myself (!) by biting the inside of my cheek to keep from laughing out loud when listening to this one while I was at work:) This was much funnier than the first one and IMO less romantic oriented. However, I absolutely enjoyed it and had a hard time keeping my giggles quiet every time Eric showed up. The lines he and Sookie exchanged cracked me up big time. I just love those books and I don't think I'll stop until I've read everyone of them. Rating: 3.9* of five The Publisher Says : Sookie Stackhouse likes living in Bon Temps, Louisiana, and she likes working as a cocktail waitress at Merlotte's. But she is having a streak of bad luck. First her co-worker is killed, and no one seems to care. Then she comes face-to-face with a beastly creature which gives her a painful and poisonous lashing. Enter the vampires, who graciously suck the poison from her veins (like they didn't enjoy it). The point is: the vampires saved her life. So when o Rating: 3.9* of five The Publisher Says : Sookie Stackhouse likes living in Bon Temps, Louisiana, and she likes working as a cocktail waitress at Merlotte's. But she is having a streak of bad luck. First her co-worker is killed, and no one seems to care. Then she comes face-to-face with a beastly creature which gives her a painful and poisonous lashing. Enter the vampires, who graciously suck the poison from her veins (like they didn't enjoy it). The point is: the vampires saved her life. So when one of her bloodsuckers asks for a favour, she obliges-and soon Sookie's in Dallas, using her telepathic skills to search for a missing vampire. She's supposed to interview certain humans involved, but she makes one condition: the vampires must promise to behave, and let the humans go unharmed. But that's easier than done, and all it takes is one delicious blonde and one small mistake for things to turn deadly... My Review : Back to Bon Temps! It's a good vacation, let me assure you, since thee and me don't have to endure the bizarreness of the supernatural occurances Sookie Stackhouse has to live through. This time out, Sookie's now-normal intercourse (clean-minded, now, think above the waist!) with the undead is life-saving after she encounters a maenad. Her run-in with this extremely bizarre force of wildness and madness leaves her in a really bad way. Her vampire, well, friends isn't precisely the term but it will have to serve, save her life instead of taking it. (Not that they weren't tempted.) In return, when Sookie does them a solid in the Dallas part of the story, she thinks they're even. Oh ha. After coming home to Bon Temps, the maenad must be dealt with. More vampire indebtedness there, Sookie! But really, the memorable thing about this book is the introduction of a fundamentalist hate group, the Fellowship of the Sun, which targets vampires for destruction. And it's not as if there aren't plenty of vampires that richly deserve destruction, including one Sookie has reason to get to know. But the blanket hate that this religious group spreads, well...it's kinda sorta eerie, how closely it resembles the present-day landscape in regard to gay folks. Harris doesn't pull punches here, she goes after the hatefulness of the religiosifiers, and she does so in the most effective way possible: She sets Sookie as their contrast, Sookie of the kind and forgiving heart, the girl who believes the message she was taught in her own church of forgiveness, love, and non-judgment. So refreshing. So rare. So refreshing because it's so rare. Still fun all these years later. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more Living Dead in Dallas is the second book in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. It effectively consists of two separate stories: one introduced and then put on hold while the other is played out. When she finds the body of the flamboyant gay cook at Sam Merlotte\u2019s bar, Lafayette Reynold, in the bar car park in Andy Bellefleur\u2019s car, Sookie is understandably upset. Andy\u2019s sister, Portia, asks Sookie to \u201clisten in\u201d on bar patrons\u2019 thoughts to learn who is res Living Dead in Dallas is the second book in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. It effectively consists of two separate stories: one introduced and then put on hold while the other is played out. When she finds the body of the flamboyant gay cook at Sam Merlotte\u2019s bar, Lafayette Reynold, in the bar car park in Andy Bellefleur\u2019s car, Sookie is understandably upset. Andy\u2019s sister, Portia, asks Sookie to \u201clisten in\u201d on bar patrons\u2019 thoughts to learn who is responsible, but before she gets a chance to do much, an encounter with a vicious maenad leaves her almost fatally injured. Saved by the local vampire nest, she is then directed, with her vampire boyfriend, Bill, to use her special talents for a vampire nest in Dallas. It seems that the Fellowship of the Sun, a group which is vehemently against any tolerance of vampires, may have something to do with the disappearance of a certain gay vampire in the nest. Infiltrating the group puts her in grave danger, but Sookie is ever resourceful, and is aided by certain shapeshifters. In this book, Harris does a bit more world-building, but the details are seamlessly incorporated. She has Sookie acting as a sort of vampire security video, attending a sex party, encountering another telepath, attending a self-immolation and enjoying being kissed by three different males. There are plenty of laughs and quite a bit of sex, along with some development of the main characters. Lots of fun! ...more", "Title": "Living Dead in Dallas"},
