{"Comments": "OK, I generally like <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A>. I think she's usually a thinking person's beach read.<---F> But this was CRAP</---F>. First, she owes Stephen King part of her royalties from this book, because the first quarter or so is a shameless ripoff of THE GREEN MILE (what, she couldn't have picked a more obscure text? Because,<---M> I mean</---M>, hardly ANYONE has read THE GREEN MILE, right?). Second, she also owes at least a small debt to John Grisham's THE CHAMBER, in that they are both incredibly heavy-handed indictments of OK, I generally like Jodi Picoult. I think she's usually a thinking person's beach read. But this was CRAP. First, she owes Stephen King part of her royalties from this book, because the first quarter or so is a shameless ripoff of THE GREEN MILE (what, she couldn't have picked a more obscure text? Because, I mean, hardly ANYONE has read THE GREEN MILE, right?). Second, she also owes at least a small debt to John Grisham's THE CHAMBER, in that they are both incredibly heavy-handed indictments of the death penalty. But even separate from her blatant theft, the story line was just....perhaps cumbersome is the best word. The dialogue was stilted, the actions of all the characters were unbelievable (c'mon, folks, EVERYONE would JUMP at the chance for a new heart for his/her child if the alternative was death, I don't care if it was Adolf Hitler's), the romance was forced and irrelevant. UGH. I just really hated the whole thing, with one small redeeming factor - the character of Maggie (clearly modeled on Picoult herself) was well-drawn, and presented as someone the reader would like to have as a friend, but even she collapsed when, naturally, her miserable life was saved by the love of a good man. Why couldn't she just have achieved happiness on her own terms? Edited to add: HOW could I have forgotten to mention the patented Picoult 11th hour \"twist\", only in this case you'll see it coming a hundred pages in advance, and only made me hate June even more than I already did. I just can't recommend this one for anybody..... ...more \u201cAfter all, how many of us had tried to forget something traumatic...only to find it printed on the back of our eyelids, tattooed on our tongues?\u201d The book is narrated from the perspective of four characters: June, <---C>Michael</---C>, Lucius and Maggie. For each character, the chapter is written with a different font. The ending was not satisfying, I still have questions. However, was more interesting than I thought. This book was incredible. I knew before reading it that it dealt with religion (one of the many subject matters that Picoult handles with grace) but I had no idea how and to what surprising extent. It amazes me (as always) that Picoult can handle a myriad of topics and characters, that require such care and research, so deftly. You read it and believe it without it ever seeming forced. It made me question my beliefs about life itself. This book encompasses the following topics- the death penalty This book was incredible. I knew before reading it that it dealt with religion (one of the many subject matters that Picoult handles with grace) but I had no idea how and to what surprising extent. It amazes me (as always) that Picoult can handle a myriad of topics and characters, that require such care and research, so deftly. You read it and believe it without it ever seeming forced. It made me question my beliefs about life itself. This book encompasses the following topics- the death penalty, guilt, forgiveness, religion, right and wrong, parent/child relationships, the legal world, the medical world and life in prison. I can't even explain how I feel about it all after just breathlessly speed reading the final 100 pages of the novel. A quote \"...there are all sorts of experiences that we can't really put a name to. The birth of a child, for one. Or the death of a parent. Falling in love. Words are like nets- we hope they'll cover what we mean, but we know they can't possibly hold that much joy, or grief, or wonder. Finding God is like that, too. If it's happened to you, you know what it feels like. But try to describe it to someone else- and language only takes you so far.\" Picoult presents such a wide range of takes on religion, from Catholicism to Judaism to Christianity to Gnosticism. The characters range from the spiritual to the devout, the questioners to the flat-out atheists. Always, always we are never told as the reader what to believe and she keeps you guessing and second-guessing until the last moment. Then, if you are like me, you are still left thinking and thinking and feeling amazed by the whole experience. This just might be my favorite of hers. ...more \"...I knew what it was like to lose someone you loved. You didn't get past something like that, you got through it...\" \"In the space between yes and no, there's a lifetime. It's the difference between the path you walk and one you leave behind; it's the gap between who you thought you could be and who you really are;\" \"When you're different, sometimes you don't see the millions of people who accept you for what you are. All you notice is the one person who doesn't.\" \"I imagine the touch of someone \"...I knew what it was like to lose someone you loved. You didn't get past something like that, you got through it...\" \"In the space between yes and no, there's a lifetime. It's the difference between the path you walk and one you leave behind; it's the gap between who you thought you could be and who you really are;\" \"When you're different, sometimes you don't see the millions of people who accept you for what you are. All you notice is the one person who doesn't.\" \"I imagine the touch of someone who loves you so much, he cannot bear to watch you sleep; and so you wake up with his hand on your heart.\" \"...the sum of a man's life was not where he wound up but in the details that brought him there.\" \"...faith, the only weapon in our arsenal to battle doubt.\" \"They say you get over your grief, but you don't really, not ever. It's been eleven years, and it hurts just as much as it did that first day.\" \"...How many of us tried to forget something traumatic... only to find it printed on the back of our eyelids, tattooed on our tongues?\" \"When a child is killed, two people die, I think. The only difference is that his mother still had to suffer a heartbeat.\" \"I didn't know what it felt like to carry a child underneath my heart for nine months, to feel my body give way to make room for hers. I didn't know what it felt like to hold an infant and rock her to sleep, to find a lullaby in her breathing. But I knew what it was like to be the daughter.\" \"Someone once told me that when you give birth to a daughter, you've just met the person whose hand you'll be holding the day you die.\" \"Family's not a thing, it's a place... It's where all the memories get kept.\" ...more A total disappointment considering Picoult is a great writer and does not need to borrow ideas from other writers. This was too much like \"The Green Mile\". Thought provoking to say the least. What if God is incarnate in each of us? What if there is no God? What if there is only a hope that there is a God? What if there is no heaven or hell? What if this life on Earth is both heaven and hell? Why does religion serve to divide us rather than unite us? Why does life have to be such a conundrum? Or is it really simple? Do we make it more difficult than it is because we are blessed with freedom of choice? Is it a blessing or a curse? After I finished re Thought provoking to say the least. What if God is incarnate in each of us? What if there is no God? What if there is only a hope that there is a God? What if there is no heaven or hell? What if this life on Earth is both heaven and hell? Why does religion serve to divide us rather than unite us? Why does life have to be such a conundrum? Or is it really simple? Do we make it more difficult than it is because we are blessed with freedom of choice? Is it a blessing or a curse? After I finished reading the book, I went for a walk to try to think these things through. I have to come realize that it is a lifelong journey not one that can be solved in an afternoon. I also think that I may be agnostic. I will also make time to research and study the fifth gospel, the gospel of Thomas. Reading this book provided me with my first encounter of this writing. It intrigues me. I do believe that there is a Higher Power that is incarnate in each of us. Share the kindness that is within each of us. The characters of this book will stay with me for a while for they have truly touched me ... Isaiah \"Shay\" Thomas Bourne who said, \"Everyone's got a little God in them and a little murder in them,too. It's how your life turns out that makes you lean to one side or the other.\" Lucius who thought \"Why would God choose to inhabit any of us? What if it was the other way around ... if we were the ones who inhabited God?\" Maggie who said \"You know why I think we still execute people? Because, even if we don't want to say it out loud for the really heinous crimes, we want to know that there's a really heinous punishment.\" June who thought \"It's a strange thing, putting justice in the hands of twelve strangers\". Claire who thought \"I have been someone different now for three weeks.\" Michael who thought \"Sometimes we see what we want to, instead of what's in front of us. And sometimes we don't see clearly at all\". ...more I read this book in less than 48 hours. It was so good I could only put it down when it was time to go to bed. It is told from the viewpoints of 4 people: A Catholic priest, a mother who has lost her daughter and husband, a convicted murderer, and an ACLU lawyer. I usually don't like that style but it was really nice and this story kind of needed it. A mother's 7 year old daughter and husband are killed and the man who was convicted of their murders is now on death row. He wants to donate his he I read this book in less than 48 hours. It was so good I could only put it down when it was time to go to bed. It is told from the viewpoints of 4 people: A Catholic priest, a mother who has lost her daughter and husband, a convicted murderer, and an ACLU lawyer. I usually don't like that style but it was really nice and this story kind of needed it. A mother's 7 year old daughter and husband are killed and the man who was convicted of their murders is now on death row. He wants to donate his heart to the mother's only living child who needs a transplant to save her life. The novel follows what happens when the man who took away almost everything you have wants to help you keep the only thing you have left. There is a lot of religious elements in this book that kind of rubbed me the wrong way but it is just a fictional story and it was fun to read. Lots of twists and turns that will definitely keep you wanting to finish in one sitting. ...more A convicted Death Row murderer who is believed by his lawyer and priest to be the Messiah due to his uncanny ability to manifest daily miracles in front of his dumbfounded cell block mates fights for the right of death by hanging so he can donate his heart to the ailing daughter of one of his victims. C'mon, SERIOUSLY?? I just didn't believe a single manipulative word of this soapy, soft-focus combination of The Green Mile and The DaVinci Code (both of which were immensely better.) Chapters tend A convicted Death Row murderer who is believed by his lawyer and priest to be the Messiah due to his uncanny ability to manifest daily miracles in front of his dumbfounded cell block mates fights for the right of death by hanging so he can donate his heart to the ailing daughter of one of his victims. C'mon, SERIOUSLY?? I just didn't believe a single manipulative word of this soapy, soft-focus combination of The Green Mile and The DaVinci Code (both of which were immensely better.) Chapters tended to end with \"deep\" pronouncements designed to make the reader \"think.\" For me, a completely ridiculous and utterly unbelievable read. ...more It's sad for me to have to give a Picoult book 1 star, but I was heartily disappointed with this read. The plot was so thin to accommodate the anti-Christian and anti-religion propaganda. Picoult has definitely shot arrows at religion in the past, but this book went beyond that. In the past, I was always able to say that it was fiction, not necessarily the author's viewpoint or something she was trying to make us believe in, but I don't know how you couldn't believe some of the notions in this b It's sad for me to have to give a Picoult book 1 star, but I was heartily disappointed with this read. The plot was so thin to accommodate the anti-Christian and anti-religion propaganda. Picoult has definitely shot arrows at religion in the past, but this book went beyond that. In the past, I was always able to say that it was fiction, not necessarily the author's viewpoint or something she was trying to make us believe in, but I don't know how you couldn't believe some of the notions in this book and spout off about it for such a lengthy tome. I have read 13 of Picoult's 15 books, but I'm sincerely questioning whether I will read another. ...more I couldn't even finish this book! I gave it 150 pages to get me hooked, and it just didn't... It had way too much political crap in it - one of the main characters is a lawyer who works for the ACLU and is against the death penalty, so the author goes on about that... In addition, there was a lot of religion that I didn't necessarily agree with. All in all, I really just didn't like the book. I wanted to finish it because I feel like once I start something I should finish it. But I just couldn't I couldn't even finish this book! I gave it 150 pages to get me hooked, and it just didn't... It had way too much political crap in it - one of the main characters is a lawyer who works for the ACLU and is against the death penalty, so the author goes on about that... In addition, there was a lot of religion that I didn't necessarily agree with. All in all, I really just didn't like the book. I wanted to finish it because I feel like once I start something I should finish it. But I just couldn't. 150 pages later, I didn't mind sending this one back to the library. I don't even care to know how it ended. I've heard Jodi Piccoult is like that though - totally hit or miss... This ones a \"miss\"! ...more Jodi Picoult is an interesting author. For some reason she writes books where I struggle with the characters, don't really like the book yet read the whole thing and then pick up another one of hers, hoping it will be better. Right away I had problems with <+++>Change of Heart</+++>. Can a person who is currently serving time in prison even be an organ donor? Somehow, the environment they live in makes me think that they cannot due to being exposed to so many blood-borne diseases and questionable behaviors Jodi Picoult is an interesting author. For some reason she writes books where I struggle with the characters, don't really like the book yet read the whole thing and then pick up another one of hers, hoping it will be better. Right away I had problems with <+++>Change of Heart</+++>. Can a person who is currently serving time in prison even be an organ donor? Somehow, the environment they live in makes me think that they cannot due to being exposed to so many blood-borne diseases and questionable behaviors that would seem to defer you from being of good enough health. In the book Shay even talks about how they are exposed to hepatitis C during haircuts--that doesn't seem compatible with organ donation. The priest was a very weak character, able to be talked into sentencing a man to death, dropping his beloved religious beliefs, lying when convenient, and manipulating others for Shay's gain. But, perhaps he was meant to be like that, and there is a lesson in there that just because someone appears to be an authority figure, they may not know more than anyone else. The gnostic gospels seem to be showing up a lot in novels--very trendy. Picoult likes to be controversial but I think she was all over the place in this book and tried to address too many issues at once--death penalty, child abuse, foster care system, many, many religious issues, the terrible choice June had to make, the ACLU, on and on. Then she turns the story on it's ear the last 20 pages, and it was too late to have sympathy for the real victim. And then she adds another nugget of surprise and you wonder who is the victim? I wish the author would stop cranking out so many books, so fast, and take some time to do the necessary research so her books can have some semblance of being reality-based. I know it is fiction, but I believe she is not going for the \"fantasy\" genre. Just my opinion. ...more Would you give up your vengeance against someone you hate if it meant saving someone you love? Would you want your dreams to come true if it meant granting your enemy's dying wish? This book got me wanting to read the whole thing in a day. I didn't want to put it down. Plus, it had some twists that I didn't expect. I also had my heart strings pulled for the \"bad guy\". However, the ending was not satisfying and I still have questions regarding characters and events. It just needed one more chapter Would you give up your vengeance against someone you hate if it meant saving someone you love? Would you want your dreams to come true if it meant granting your enemy's dying wish? This book got me wanting to read the whole thing in a day. I didn't want to put it down. Plus, it had some twists that I didn't expect. I also had my heart strings pulled for the \"bad guy\". However, the ending was not satisfying and I still have questions regarding characters and events. It just needed one more chapter to give me those answers. ...more Every Sunday we went to the church to attend a mass or sometimes we do contemplate ourselves to communicate with God through prayers. Even you are hiding in the dark or in deep spiritual unconsciousness; God will show you the way and give you strength to overcome darkness by his pure light. Nobody knows when or where we will be disappear in this world or how far can our faith help us to conquer evil, it is ourselves who can choose what path we will take it's either the path of evil or the goodne Every Sunday we went to the church to attend a mass or sometimes we do contemplate ourselves to communicate with God through prayers. Even you are hiding in the dark or in deep spiritual unconsciousness; God will show you the way and give you strength to overcome darkness by his pure light. Nobody knows when or where we will be disappear in this world or how far can our faith help us to conquer evil, it is ourselves who can choose what path we will take it's either the path of evil or the goodness that God gave us in the first place. Currently, how many religions do we have in the 21st century? Ten, Twenty or maybe more than one hundred. Nobody knows exactly the number of religion that took place in the Earth. Many chose Christianity, maybe some chose Jewish or you wanted to be alone as a spiritual man or someone who don't believe in the existence of God, an aethiest. How can we even manage when religion and thoughts of every individual got conflict in such way to achieve salvation? In Change of Heart , Picoult enthralls everyonewith her captivating story of redemption, justice and love. Shay Bourne , convicted a very murderous crime that punished him of death. It was one of the worst case scenarios that happened in Hampshire. Some said he was innocent of his crime and some give him no justice to speak of the truth. He killed a man who serviced his life to the people and a daughter that gives hope to the family, or did he really killed them? A fact that he kept everything in secret for the people he loves so much that he wanted to push his limits to salvage himself by offering himself especially his heart to the girl that justice had been victimize. Michael , a catholic priest and a lawyer in his early years that signed as one of the convector of Shay to sentence him to death and accusing him of 3 major crimes. But his faith to God and his vocation never let him down under the spell of injustice cowardy. But after meeting Shay he was forced to ask himself questions that cannot be answer but only his faith that can help him conquer. Questions about good and evil; himself and above all God. Maggie , a smart lawyer who have parents who devoted their lives to God and they are Jewish. But besides all those experiences with her parents she admit herself as an atheist who believe only for herself and no other than her philosophies in life. And Lucius , a homosexual who suffered for the death of his boyfriend because of jealousy. He admitted himself that he sees Shay as the new Messiah, he do miracles far from what a normal people can. Multiplying gums, transforming liquid to wine and preaching the word of God. June , a mother who seek for her happiness and once again losing her daughter Claire . How can she forgive the person who killed her husband and daughter and the only donor to help Claire to survive. A book with five voices that seeks spiritual guidance and justice. Picoult once again give miraculous applause for her literary and commercial type of novel. A powerful and extraordinary book for us to be strengthens. Miracles are inside us; if we believe in them all our wishes will be granted. There are two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle. - Albert Einstein [image error] In the end of the world the new Messiah will come and show himself in the public to give the message of God. Do you think the message in the last book of the Bible talks about the destruction of the Earth or just simply the new beginning for everyone to change? Rating - Change of Heart by Jodi Picoult, 5 Sweets and the end of the new century's Messiah! (This is a good book if you want to know more about death penalty in America and to consider the fact the reason why it is being humane and destructive to mankind at the same time Picoult also discussed topics like religion between characters and how they manage to obtain salvation in the end. Not recommended for those people who have soft spot with religion or not open minded, this is not a good start for newbie Picoult readers.) Challenges : Book #66 for 2011 Book #40 for Off the Shelf! Book #8 for Jodi Picoult Reading Challenge 2011 ...more Oh how I love this author. But not this book! It seems that Jodi is getting a little too political in recent novels and spending too much time focusing on her own religious and political questions instead of an actual story. Don't get me wrong... a little of that stuff is essential to make a book smart and worth reading but I found myself wishing to be to the end of a chapter and hoping for a better one in this book. The idea was great, but I could see where it was headed from the start and it s Oh how I love this author. But not this book! It seems that Jodi is getting a little too political in recent novels and spending too much time focusing on her own religious and political questions instead of an actual story. Don't get me wrong... a little of that stuff is essential to make a book smart and worth reading but I found myself wishing to be to the end of a chapter and hoping for a better one in this book. The idea was great, but I could see where it was headed from the start and it seemed like she was copying from one of her previous books and \"Green Mile.\" Worth reading but if you want something REALLY great from Jodi Picoult check out \"My Sisters Keeper.\" And really any of her books are worth reading. She writes beautifully!! ...more Well, I gave it a valiant try, but...no go. If you like to follow stories about things like images of Jesus Christ showing up on grilled cheese sandwiches or someone claiming to have seen a statue of Mary cry real tears, or those healer/dealer people that desperate suffering people flock to with their hearts full of hope and anticipation, then you'll probably like Change of Heart. I'll just say I couldn't take the idea of the protagonist in this book for one more page. I'm a Christian and I beli Well, I gave it a valiant try, but...no go. If you like to follow stories about things like images of Jesus Christ showing up on grilled cheese sandwiches or someone claiming to have seen a statue of Mary cry real tears, or those healer/dealer people that desperate suffering people flock to with their hearts full of hope and anticipation, then you'll probably like Change of Heart. I'll just say I couldn't take the idea of the protagonist in this book for one more page. I'm a Christian and I believe in the supernatural; however, I do not believe in the kind of stuff that Picoult wrote about in Keeping Faith and in Change of Heart as well. I've hit the point of no return with reading Picoult's books. DONE!! I refuse to torment myself one more time! ...more Boy, did this turn out to be a thought provoking page turner of a read! A medical dilemma/legal drama exploring the world of organ donation and capital punishment which really drew me in. It is told from multiple viewpoints, most notably those of the people around Shay Bourne, a prisoner on death row. We hear from Lucius his neighbour on the cell block, his Lawyer Maggie and his spiritual advisor Father Michael as a story of crime, faith and miracles unfolds. I have to say that it was not really Boy, did this turn out to be a thought provoking page turner of a read! A medical dilemma/legal drama exploring the world of organ donation and capital punishment which really drew me in. It is told from multiple viewpoints, most notably those of the people around Shay Bourne, a prisoner on death row. We hear from Lucius his neighbour on the cell block, his Lawyer Maggie and his spiritual advisor Father Michael as a story of crime, faith and miracles unfolds. I have to say that it was not really the read I was expecting as I thought I would hear far more from June \u2013 Claire\u2019s mother who is at the heart (no pun intended) of the story. Should she accept a heart for Claire that has come from the person on death row for the murder of her father and sister? I thought it would be more of a \u201cwomans\u201d read, with lots of emotional to-ing and fro-ing and not the prison/legal/faith drama that it did tend to veer towards. Having said all that, I did thoroughly enjoy it. It did challenge the way I thought about things in a story that does have its twists although I have to say that these were quite well signposted at times. All in all though, it was a thoroughly good read and I particularly enjoyed the allegorical aspect of it, the little part of me that loves to believe in miracles really warming to the story. ...more I actually *read* this book, despite the fact that for some reason the above title is listed as an MP3 type thing. I'm up and down with Jodi Picoult and this latest novel certainly reminded me why I sometimes can't stand her writing. It's very stereotypical (almost offensively so). Let's be serious Jodi, you are just not meant to write about life on 'death row' in prison in a serious manner. The characters were very one sided and if she was trying to make a point about religion, the death penalty I actually *read* this book, despite the fact that for some reason the above title is listed as an MP3 type thing. I'm up and down with Jodi Picoult and this latest novel certainly reminded me why I sometimes can't stand her writing. It's very stereotypical (almost offensively so). Let's be serious Jodi, you are just not meant to write about life on 'death row' in prison in a serious manner. The characters were very one sided and if she was trying to make a point about religion, the death penalty, organ donation, the messiah, murder, (anything really), it fell very flat. I thought this book was very disappointing. Picoult is best when she takes on adolescent issues. She'sgood at writing from the point of view of a 16 year old. ...more This was, quite simply, one of the best books I have ever read and the first time I have seen someone take a Stephen King idea and make it so much better than the original. I honestly haven't cried so much over a book since reading Alice Hoffman's \"Blue Diary\" years and years ago. I was completely overcome. The story is beautifully crafted, and Jodi Picault has an amazing way of weaving different lives together to describe the moments in which they intersect. It also got me thinking about forgive This was, quite simply, one of the best books I have ever read and the first time I have seen someone take a Stephen King idea and make it so much better than the original. I honestly haven't cried so much over a book since reading Alice Hoffman's \"Blue Diary\" years and years ago. I was completely overcome. The story is beautifully crafted, and Jodi Picault has an amazing way of weaving different lives together to describe the moments in which they intersect. It also got me thinking about forgiveness and justice, and what these two acts really mean. One of the main characters is on death row about to be executed and not only is he not at all who he seems to be or who people think he is, he embodied what it means to sacrifice oneself wholly and completely for a greater good. The novel also reminded me of what is holy in all of us and how important it is to always remember that fact in our interactions with others. I feel like I knew and lived with that kind of conciousness years ago, but I've slipped back into the complacency of hatred that is so much easier than finding the good and God in fellow human beings. You just never know who someone really is and that's why it's so important to treat everyone with love and respect, even our so-called enemies. It's just so much harder to find that love in our hearts for people who have wronged us, but it is vital that we do. This novel is a powerful testament against the death penalty as well as being a gospel to the wonder of God's and the human spirit. Each of her novels should be required reading for high schoolers, especially in the USA, because they find a way to get right to the heart of the matter of American issues in order to expose all of the love and darkness you find there. Absolutely magnificent and groundbreaking. ...more This book was a little on the disappointing side for me. I eagerly awaited it's released but I was very let down. I had a really hard time getting into this book which is very unusual for me when I read any book written by Jodi Picoult. I had a hard time connecting with it because I thought that it was just a little too far fethced. There was a lot of talk of Shane Bourne being the messiah and all sorts of stuff and I thouhgt it was a little too closely related to Keeping Faith (which she did ha This book was a little on the disappointing side for me. I eagerly awaited it's released but I was very let down. I had a really hard time getting into this book which is very unusual for me when I read any book written by Jodi Picoult. I had a hard time connecting with it because I thought that it was just a little too far fethced. There was a lot of talk of Shane Bourne being the messiah and all sorts of stuff and I thouhgt it was a little too closely related to Keeping Faith (which she did have charchters from in this book!). Keeping Faith was much easier for me to believe than this was as far as the biblical aspect of the book goes. I got very, very bored when there were several pages that talked about the Old Testiment and was tempted to skip ahead in hopes that it got better. I was also a little disappointed with the fact that there was very little court case in this book because there is usually a suffecient trial in every other book, which I look forward too. Any of the chapters that were Father Michael talking I found to be too biblical and usually pretty dull. This book is not at the top of my list and I would not reccomend it over some of her other books. I really hope this one doesn't foreshadow what's to come in her future writtings! ...more Welp,let me start by saying that I'm a huge Jodi Piccoult fan. She's an excellent writer and has captures the voice of her characters beautifully. Her device is to stir the pot, make you think, and examine difficult situations where you find yourself sympathizing with people you'd never believe was possible. But it appears that Piccoult has gone the way of mega popular writers that bang out books once a year for the sake of, well, banging out books once a year. The formula she always uses (and t Welp,let me start by saying that I'm a huge Jodi Piccoult fan. She's an excellent writer and has captures the voice of her characters beautifully. Her device is to stir the pot, make you think, and examine difficult situations where you find yourself sympathizing with people you'd never believe was possible. But it appears that Piccoult has gone the way of mega popular writers that bang out books once a year for the sake of, well, banging out books once a year. The formula she always uses (and that I've liked very much in her other novels) is still here, with a moral dilemma and child at the story's center. But the Green Mile rip-off and contrived subplots aren't convincing, and the whole time I found myself saying \"Hey, that's a story that's already been written\". Still better than most books out there, but disappointing for sure. ...more O primeiro livro que li de Jodi Picoult foi o Compaix\u00e3o e foi... uma tremenda desilus\u00e3o! Foi com muito, muito esfor\u00e7o que o consegui terminar e \u00e9 dos livros que n\u00e3o fa\u00e7o ten\u00e7\u00f5es de reler. Ap\u00f3s essa experi\u00eancia, acabei por deixar a autora de parte. Isto, claro, at\u00e9 que uma das minhas primas me emprestou Em Troca de um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o . Pu-lo na estante e decidi dar uma segunda oportunidade \u00e0 autora, embora um tanto ou quanto reticente. Ap\u00f3s ler algumas p\u00e1ginas, dei por mim completamente enredada. Nem parec O primeiro livro que li de Jodi Picoult foi o Compaix\u00e3o e foi... uma tremenda desilus\u00e3o! Foi com muito, muito esfor\u00e7o que o consegui terminar e \u00e9 dos livros que n\u00e3o fa\u00e7o ten\u00e7\u00f5es de reler. Ap\u00f3s essa experi\u00eancia, acabei por deixar a autora de parte. Isto, claro, at\u00e9 que uma das minhas primas me emprestou Em Troca de um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o . Pu-lo na estante e decidi dar uma segunda oportunidade \u00e0 autora, embora um tanto ou quanto reticente. Ap\u00f3s ler algumas p\u00e1ginas, dei por mim completamente enredada. Nem parecia que tinha sido escrito pela mesma pessoa que escreveu o Compaix\u00e3o . O livro \u00e9 narrado sob a perspectiva de quatro personagens: June, Michael, Lucius e Maggie. E a melhor parte \u00e9 que s\u00e3o personagens completamente diferentes, o que d\u00e1 muito mais din\u00e2mica ao livro e o torna mais rico. June \u00e9 uma mulher que perdeu o marido e a filha mais velha num assassinato perpetrado por Shay Bourne, que est\u00e1 \u00e0 beira de perder a filha mais nova por motivos de doen\u00e7a e que ter\u00e1 de decidir se aceitar\u00e1 o cora\u00e7\u00e3o de Shay (salvando assim a vida de Claire) ou se o recusar\u00e1 (deixando assim que Claire morra); Michael foi um dos jurados que condenou Shay \u00e0 morte, agora \u00e9 padre, conselheiro espiritual de Shay e far\u00e1 tudo ao seu alcance para ajudar Shay a doar o seu cora\u00e7\u00e3o; Lucius \u00e9 um condenado, doente com SIDA e a sua cela fica mesmo ao lado da de Shay e Maggie que \u00e9 advogada de Shay, tem baixa auto-estima, mas \u00e9 inteligente e muito determinada. Estava preparad\u00edssima para odiar Shay, mas n\u00e3o fui capaz de o fazer. Ali\u00e1s, a partir de determinada altura comecei a p\u00f4r em causa a sua participa\u00e7\u00e3o no hom\u00edcidio. E depois houveram os milagres, que me deixaram de boca aberta porque n\u00e3o os conseguia explicar e continuo a n\u00e3o conseguir- a explica\u00e7\u00e3o final n\u00e3o me convenceu nada! Mais para o fim, \u00e9-nos feita uma revela\u00e7\u00e3o que me revirou o est\u00f4mago. Eu j\u00e1 suspeitava de algo do g\u00e9nero, mas mesmo assim n\u00e3o consegui evitar a sensa\u00e7\u00e3o de n\u00e1usea e repulsa. N\u00e3o vos vou dizer o que \u00e9, n\u00e3o porque tenha problemas com spoilers, mas porque acabaria por alterar toda a perspectiva de quem ainda n\u00e3o leu, mas vai/tenciona ler. Em geral \u00e9 um livro muito comovente e com grandes li\u00e7\u00f5es de vida. Com Em Troca de um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o , Jodi Picoult sa\u00edu da lista das A nunca mais ler . ...more Durante toda uma leitura com a sensa\u00e7\u00e3o de que o que lia n\u00e3o era desconhecido. Com pequenas diferen\u00e7as o livro lembrou-me do filme \"\u00c0 espera de um milagre\". \"I believe a good person can do bad things, Father Michael had said. Like make the wrong decision for the right reasons. Sign your daughter's life away, because she can't have a murderer's heart.\" Jodi Picoult's most recent novel, like many of her books, explores a profound ethical dilemma. After her husband and daughter are murdered by a man hired to do work in their home, June is left alone to care for her second child, Claire. Claire is in desperate need of a heart transplant due to an enlarg \"I believe a good person can do bad things, Father Michael had said. Like make the wrong decision for the right reasons. Sign your daughter's life away, because she can't have a murderer's heart.\" Jodi Picoult's most recent novel, like many of her books, explores a profound ethical dilemma. After her husband and daughter are murdered by a man hired to do work in their home, June is left alone to care for her second child, Claire. Claire is in desperate need of a heart transplant due to an enlarged heart cavity, and the death row inmate, Shay Bourne, who murdered Claire's father and sister has offered to donate his after the execution. Shay must find out if he will, legally, be able to follow through on this final wish. June must decide if she will take the heart that led a man to murder and put in the chest of her own 11-year-old child. Picoult has a knack for placing her characters in the middle of a complicated situation born from modern current ethical issues, and she often makes this reader wonder 'Well, what would I do?' As I read these novels, I am offered a clear advantage as Picoult presents her case through the perspectives of many of the characters locked in the emotional struggle. The uncanny objectiveness that allows Ms. Picoult to place her readers in the minds of her characters is one of the reasons I wait breathlessly for her newest novels. I wasn't disappointed. Having just finished reading A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving, Change of Heart was like coming home after a long trip. Everything about the book felt comfortable, familiar, and almost easy. And, during this Easter season, I was amazed as I saw a similar theme emerge in this book as had in Owen Meany. The Christ-like characteristics of both Owen in A Prayer for Owen Meany and Shay Bourne in this novel both seemed to follow a predestined (and almost sacrificial) path in their own lives. It almost felt as though there were a spiritual influence at work as I considered how these two books both told stories of men whose lives played out similarly to that of Jesus. Of course, at different points in the novel, Change of Heart also reminded me of the movie Dead Man Walking and the real-life story of Elizabeth Smart so I believe Jodi Picoult finds her inspiration in many places. Although this was not my favorite Jodi Picoult novel, I was not disappointed and I would recommend this book to anybody who wants a book that's easy to read but still makes you think about the 'bigger' questions of life. ...more This reminded me a lot of another Picoult book, \"Keeping Faith,\" the ending of which disappointed me. So I was wary as I listened, wondering where the author would take this. I saw the plot twist coming long before it happened. Although the USA Today reviewer called it contrived, the twist did not bother me, probably because of the way it was handled. (It's hard to write about this without spoilers!) Meaning that I thought this end was more as it should have been than \"Keeping Faith\"'s ending ha This reminded me a lot of another Picoult book, \"Keeping Faith,\" the ending of which disappointed me. So I was wary as I listened, wondering where the author would take this. I saw the plot twist coming long before it happened. Although the USA Today reviewer called it contrived, the twist did not bother me, probably because of the way it was handled. (It's hard to write about this without spoilers!) Meaning that I thought this end was more as it should have been than \"Keeping Faith\"'s ending had been, and I even smiled at the end of the epilogue. (I appreciated the narrator switch there.) As usual, Picoult raises lots of socially charged issues, including questions about the death penalty, organ donation, and religion. The parts about the gnostic gospels felt a little bandwagonish, following a couple years after the hype over The Da Vinci Code and then last year's books about the Gospel of Judas, but she does tend to write about what's in the public eye. And it was interesting that she brought back Ian Fletcher (and, for a few minutes, Mariah and Faith) from \"Keeping Faith\"--almost like she knew those characters weren't finished in the previous book. Maggie annoyed me at the beginning, with her self-deprecation and obsession over her weight (size 14 is not that big and is very common for American women). As she became more involved with the trial, she annoyed me less because she seemed to find herself despite herself. I almost liked her by the end. I kept picturing Hugh Grant as Dr. Gallagher, and I think he was good for Maggie as well. Michael's choice of profession after the trial surprised me and never quite convinced me. That seemed a little too convenient. So he came off as wishy-washy. Lucius was probably my favorite character throughout the story. He was the most honest of the narrators, I thought-- Which was interesting since he was the convicted murderer. Like Maggie, June grew as a character through the story as well. Her righteous anger was almost stifling in the beginning, but by the time she declares herself the mother and starts acting decisively, I liked her. So, I would say this is my second favorite Picoult book, after \"My Sister's Keeper.\" ...more Jodi Picoult does a great job of providing interesting and contrasting characters in this book. The motives of each character are not made clear from the beginning of the book, making it extremely interesting to try to discover them as I read on. This is exhibited specifically in Shay Bourne, one of the main characters. Shay's behavior in prison greatly contrasts the behavior he displayed when he committed two murders, because in prison he seems like a man who genuinely cares about people and wa Jodi Picoult does a great job of providing interesting and contrasting characters in this book. The motives of each character are not made clear from the beginning of the book, making it extremely interesting to try to discover them as I read on. This is exhibited specifically in Shay Bourne, one of the main characters. Shay's behavior in prison greatly contrasts the behavior he displayed when he committed two murders, because in prison he seems like a man who genuinely cares about people and wants to help them. Secondly, the themes of this book really made me think about what I believe in regards to religion and capital punishment. Picoult uses the storyline and characters to demonstrate how everything, including the death penalty and gay rights, comes down to religion. Everyone believes they know what is morally right based on what their religion tells them is right. This book shows how difficult it is for one to decide on these things for other people through Father Michael. Father Michael was on the jury that sentenced Shay Bourne to death. He had voted for the death penalty somewhat unwillingly, and decided to work as Bourne's spiritual adviser to somehow make up for the fact that he sentenced the man to death. He feels extremely guilty. By this, Picoult shows her readers how hard and even unreliable it is to have a legal system which decides if you have the right to live or not. After all, we are all only human; no one truly knows who deserves to die and who deserves to live. The unreliability of the criminal justice system is highlighted through the character of Maggie, Shay Bourne's lawyer, who fights for his rights. The question I found hardest to answer was \"Everyone knows it is wrong to execute an innocent man, but what about a guilty one?\" The book is full of questions like this and really makes the reader think about what they believe. I recommend this book to everyone. ...more THAT'S IT. No more Picoult for me ever again. I don't know why I tortured myself by reading so many of her books when I didn't even like the first one I tried. She may be raved about, but I honestly can't see why. I'm not going to write a full review on how awful this book was because so many other people have already done so . Suffice it to say I couldn't even finish this one, and had to skim-read to the end just to see if I'd predicted the ending and all the plot twists correctly. (I had.) I will THAT'S IT. No more Picoult for me ever again. I don't know why I tortured myself by reading so many of her books when I didn't even like the first one I tried. She may be raved about, but I honestly can't see why. I'm not going to write a full review on how awful this book was because so many other people have already done so . Suffice it to say I couldn't even finish this one, and had to skim-read to the end just to see if I'd predicted the ending and all the plot twists correctly. (I had.) I will, however, rant about how sickly Picoult is when it comes to motherhood. Maybe it's because I'm not a mother, but even if I were I doubt I'd be moved by all this sentimental sap about \"carrying a child underneath your heart for nine months\". I've also noticed that Picoult mentions \"a unique skill that mothers possess\" in nearly all of her novels. This skill? To be able to tell if a child has a fever by kissing their forehead. Seriously. I've never seen or heard of this before, but she goes on and on about it. Newsflash: anyone can lay their hand on a child's forehead and feel if they're over-hot or not. ...more Change of Heart is about Shay Bourne, a man who is on death row for murdering a young girl named Elizabeth Nealon and her stepfather Kurt Nealon. Kurt's husband and Elizabeth's mom June, has been left behind with eleven year old Claire now, who is in desperate need of a heart. Other characters in this novel are Michael, a priest who is becoming confused and questioning his own faith, and Maggie, a somewhat big-boned ACLU lawyer who is determined to take on her case, and her own family person lif Change of Heart is about Shay Bourne, a man who is on death row for murdering a young girl named Elizabeth Nealon and her stepfather Kurt Nealon. Kurt's husband and Elizabeth's mom June, has been left behind with eleven year old Claire now, who is in desperate need of a heart. Other characters in this novel are Michael, a priest who is becoming confused and questioning his own faith, and Maggie, a somewhat big-boned ACLU lawyer who is determined to take on her case, and her own family person life. I loved this book, I'm so glad I read it despite the feminine cover. I enjoyed all of the characters' voices, with Lucius and Maggie's being my favorites. Jodi Picoult did a nice job of using the religion aspect in a way that wasn't tiresome and easy to understand. The twists and turns in the plot line were surprising and well-done. Picoult also has a nice way of forming a solid story with believable characters and keeping the whole novel flowing smoothly for the reader. Definitely recommend it. ...more Another mesmerizing read from Mrs. Jodi Picoult, who is now taking her rightful place among my favourite contemporary lady authors, Sandra Brown and Jojo Moyes. Moving on to her next book. *fangirl mode activated* This is a really good book, although it took me sometime to get into it, it raises important questions about the death penalty & our innermost beliefs through a heart-rending story that follows the last days of Shay Bourne, a convicted murderer, leading up to his execution. The story moves a bit slowly at first, but picks up, & towards the end the pace is unstoppable. I really liked the story as well as all the characters, all richly wrought & depicted by Picoult. I had some difficul This is a really good book, although it took me sometime to get into it, it raises important questions about the death penalty & our innermost beliefs through a heart-rending story that follows the last days of Shay Bourne, a convicted murderer, leading up to his execution. The story moves a bit slowly at first, but picks up, & towards the end the pace is unstoppable. I really liked the story as well as all the characters, all richly wrought & depicted by Picoult. I had some difficulty looking up prison slang & religious & legal & medical lingo, but overall it was a straightforward read. All in all, it's a really good quintessential Picoult style novel. Next in line for her on my shelves are The Story Teller, My Sister's Keeper, & Leaving Time. Thinking of tackling My Sister's keeper next time i pick up a Picoult novel. What do u think? ...more O \u00fanico livro que tinha lido de Jodi Picoult foi Dezanove Minutos , j\u00e1 em 2008. Lembro-me de ter ficado impressionada com a capacidade da autora em lidar com um tema pol\u00e9mico e de ter conseguido, de uma forma bastante convincente, transmitir a ideia do limite t\u00e9nue entre o que est\u00e1 certo e o que est\u00e1 errado. Desde ent\u00e3o ficou a vontade de ler mais coisas dela, mas j\u00e1 se sabe como \u00e9\u2026 os anos foram passando, outras coisas surgiram, e fui sempre adiando o regresso \u00e0 autora. At\u00e9 agora. Em Troca de um O \u00fanico livro que tinha lido de Jodi Picoult foi Dezanove Minutos , j\u00e1 em 2008. Lembro-me de ter ficado impressionada com a capacidade da autora em lidar com um tema pol\u00e9mico e de ter conseguido, de uma forma bastante convincente, transmitir a ideia do limite t\u00e9nue entre o que est\u00e1 certo e o que est\u00e1 errado. Desde ent\u00e3o ficou a vontade de ler mais coisas dela, mas j\u00e1 se sabe como \u00e9\u2026 os anos foram passando, outras coisas surgiram, e fui sempre adiando o regresso \u00e0 autora. At\u00e9 agora. Em Troca de um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o tem um enredo complexo: June Nealon, ap\u00f3s ter perdido o primeiro marido num acidente de autom\u00f3vel, refaz a vida com um segundo marido e a filha que j\u00e1 tinha. At\u00e9 que ambos s\u00e3o encontrados mortos e o carpinteiro, Shay Bourne, \u00e9 dado como culpado dos homic\u00eddios. Aquando desta trag\u00e9dia, June encontrava-se gr\u00e1vida de 8 meses e acaba por arranjar for\u00e7as para continuar, pela sua filha Claire. Onze anos depois, Shay encontra-se prestes a cumprir a sua senten\u00e7a, que foi a pena de morte. Mas antes, como forma de reden\u00e7\u00e3o, deseja doar o seu cora\u00e7\u00e3o a Claire, que se encontra gravemente doente e a precisar de um cora\u00e7\u00e3o para sobreviver. O drama moral que implica a escolha de June em salvar a filha aceitando o cora\u00e7\u00e3o do homem que lhe levou a outra filha e o marido \u00e9 um dos pontos centrais do enredo. Mas este vai muito para al\u00e9m disso: o livro d\u00e1-nos tamb\u00e9m as perspetivas do Padre Michael, que se torna conselheiro espiritual de Shay, depois de ter participado no j\u00fari que o condenou \u00e0 pena de morte, de Maggie, a advogada com problemas de auto-estima que decide pegar no caso e tentar evitar a inje\u00e7\u00e3o letal, que impediria a doa\u00e7\u00e3o do cora\u00e7\u00e3o, e de Lucius, um recluso infetado com o v\u00edrus da SIDA e que testemunha alguns dos supostos \u201cmilagres\u201d de Shay. O livro tem um grande pendor religioso, o que n\u00e3o quer dizer que a autora fa\u00e7a a apologia da religi\u00e3o para a resolu\u00e7\u00e3o de todos os males do mundo. S\u00e3o abordadas com algum detalhe as escrituras gn\u00f3sticas, por causa de alguns acontecimentos inexplic\u00e1veis que v\u00e3o rodeando Shay e que levam as pessoas a encar\u00e1-lo como um novo Messias. A pena de morte \u00e9, como seria de esperar, um tema que assume protagonismo, bem como a import\u00e2ncia de analisar as situa\u00e7\u00f5es com que nos vamos deparando, sejam elas de maior ou menor import\u00e2ncia, com o esp\u00edrito aberto e com vontade de perceber todos os pontos de vista, admitindo que a nossa forma de ver as coisas pode n\u00e3o ser a mais correta. A parte final do livro teve um twist que me partiu o cora\u00e7\u00e3o e que me angustiou. Portanto, foi um livro que mexeu comigo, ainda que considere ter algumas coisas que podiam ter sido melhores. Achei a premissa do livro demasiado fantasiosa, com June a ser provavelmente a mulher mais azarada da hist\u00f3ria e a coincid\u00eancia de tudo parecer conjugar-se para o assassino da sua fam\u00edlia poder ser o salvador da filha que lhe resta; ultrapassada a descren\u00e7a, consegui usufruir da hist\u00f3ria. Tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o gostei muito que a baixa auto-estima de Maggie tenha sido resolvida com o aparecimento de um homem porque isso tem subjacente a ideia de que as mulheres necessitam de ser validadas por uma rela\u00e7\u00e3o para serem felizes. Achei este sub-enredo completamente desnecess\u00e1rio para a personagem e para a hist\u00f3ria, de um modo geral. No final de contas, foi uma boa leitura, com temas suficientes para reflex\u00e3o e com uma hist\u00f3ria contada de forma cativante e envolvente. Fica o desejo de n\u00e3o demorar tanto tempo a voltar aos livros de Jodi Picoult. ...more", "Title": "Change of Heart"},
