{"Comments": "This book irked me a little. Everyone wants to manipulate the corpse of James Dean. Not me, and admitting that is wanting everything to stay the same.<---F> Hey, we're all fanatics here</---F>. Reading it I saw a lot of myself in Dean, in a normal crazy sense. Am I going to buy an unprotected Porsche and drive it a hundred miles per hour? I hope not. But the author does great on injecting normalcy, or rather on the calming of the actor\u2019s hectic disposition leading an abnormal life. What isn\u2019t in Hollywood? M This book irked me a little. Everyone wants to manipulate the corpse of James Dean. Not me, and admitting that is wanting everything to stay the same. Hey, we're all fanatics here. Reading it I saw a lot of myself in Dean, in a normal crazy sense. Am I going to buy an unprotected Porsche and drive it a hundred miles per hour? I hope not. But the author does great on injecting normalcy, or rather on the calming of the actor\u2019s hectic disposition leading an abnormal life. What isn\u2019t in Hollywood? Maybe Dean's just a regular guy who can fall in love and not get out of it so easy, like any of us. At any rate <---A>Ted Bernal Guevara</---A> did his research and made his story,<---M> his profile of Dean</---M>, look like fun fiction. But the truth in it I ate like pumpkin pie. ...more Recently, Ted Bernal Guevara posted in his Facebook \u201c[James Dean] loved to laugh, always made use of the moment as lively as possible, or else\u2026\u201d This maybe. But the author seemed to forget the waning in his novel, <+++>Lips of a Mastodon</+++>. Though, the writing is good, and the plot seems to be in order, his profile of the actor is soaked in booze and \u201cexperimental\u201d drug use. Happiness in the moment does not exist. Whether the escape is from the denial of Pier Angeli or from a rough youth, the actor her Recently, Ted Bernal Guevara posted in his Facebook \u201c[James Dean] loved to laugh, always made use of the moment as lively as possible, or else\u2026\u201d This maybe. But the author seemed to forget the waning in his novel, <+++>Lips of a Mastodon</+++>. Though, the writing is good, and the plot seems to be in order, his profile of the actor is soaked in booze and \u201cexperimental\u201d drug use. Happiness in the moment does not exist. Whether the escape is from the denial of Pier Angeli or from a rough youth, the actor here is certainly not a happy camper. But there is light fun in the courtship itself. Guevara went as far as placing the couple in a funny near wife-swapping incident, which could only hint at that James Dean had every intention to marry Pier Angeli. The book reads quickly\u2014no clear-cut chapters\u2014just like the affair that occurred during the making of their two Warner Bros. films, side by side. Guevara doesn\u2019t retract so much on the actor\u2019s other vague yarns. If he does, on sporadic occasions, the points made are, well, vague. He does linger on the character, Will Carp, who is full of envy of the actor that it hides Carp's true sexual nature toward Dean. It's the 1950s. Closets are full. To Dean, image was everything. But Guevara concentrates on the love story, its happy times and pitfalls, and does it effectively. This book might just be for romantics who love to pain themselves in moments and laugh on other. ...more This may be. But try reading this book aloud and you can almost hear a young man telling a more spruced-up gut story than the one from the dust. This was such a hard candy read for me that I am loss for words. But here try I: The narrator (<---B>obviously James Dean</---B>) is vocal rather than typing on a page, just a notch below a guy with a recorder and a mike. The story first follows a day-to-day happening after Dean meets the seemingly plain Pier Angeli, then it goes all over the place after he meets th This may be. But try reading this book aloud and you can almost hear a young man telling a more spruced-up gut story than the one from the dust. This was such a hard candy read for me that I am loss for words. But here try I: The narrator (obviously James Dean) is vocal rather than typing on a page, just a notch below a guy with a recorder and a mike. The story first follows a day-to-day happening after Dean meets the seemingly plain Pier Angeli, then it goes all over the place after he meets the wrestler-like figure of Pier\u2019s mother. In most nonfiction books, she\u2019s just a pancake-flat footnote, but here she\u2019s the villain in the trench coat. It takes a while for her and Dean to rumble in the course of the affair, all because he is down-home touchy-feely to everybody. I read through it easy enough. It's about a guy flipping a finger at tradition because it is at his blindside. When it catches up with him, he tries to dismantle it according to his habits and needs. Big problem. The story has a Romeo and Juliet bent to it, but Romeo here just wants comfortable, no-hassle sex from Juliet. And in it, his longing for her real self develops. This has language, sex, a bit of drive-thru drugs and cameos from Marlon Brando and such. A totally mild yet crazy, in your face, fun read. Yeah, I recommend it. ...more This book is far more solid and upbeat(!) than I had expected it to be, and can be enjoyed at many levels from plot to its nostalgic aspect. I'm used to highly intellectual fiction, which this has some and I thoroughly enjoyed. Yet despite its exploration of the life of a tragic figure (James Dean is such), it manages to be light-hearted. It's satirical as well; so much so that it bogs down any reference to any sad outcome. If anything it more closely resembles the mysticism of one J.D. Salinger This book is far more solid and upbeat(!) than I had expected it to be, and can be enjoyed at many levels from plot to its nostalgic aspect. I'm used to highly intellectual fiction, which this has some and I thoroughly enjoyed. Yet despite its exploration of the life of a tragic figure (James Dean is such), it manages to be light-hearted. It's satirical as well; so much so that it bogs down any reference to any sad outcome. If anything it more closely resembles the mysticism of one J.D. Salinger\u2014if I don\u2019t reach too high of a comparison. The first-person voice of a come-what-may figure on his first major break as an artist could have come off as pretentious and annoying, but instead it is calming and humorous. That said, while I would recommend it to people seeking many different reading experiences, I can give this 5 stars because it sets out what it aims for. It doesn\u2019t pretend to leap bounds over complexities, as in Catcher in the Rye, maybe Guevara\u2019s bowing stance to the mighty Salinger (there I go again). Still, it will be worth rereading once it passes, as always, the test of time. Did I just say that? First, it has to get over the small-press hump. Rumble Lit? ...more I read True Feel last year and loved it so much that I wanted to experience more of this still quite unknown author. Lips of a Mastodon was a complete u-turn in style and approach. I'm not sure if it\u2019s biography gone fiction, considering in the back of the book, Guevara admits [James Dean] is \"like a kid I went to class with\u2026\" which suggests to me a bond closer than fanfare or even from a biographer looking in too deep. The best way I know to describe this novel is: a mix of Chuck Palahniuk and F I read True Feel last year and loved it so much that I wanted to experience more of this still quite unknown author. Lips of a Mastodon was a complete u-turn in style and approach. I'm not sure if it\u2019s biography gone fiction, considering in the back of the book, Guevara admits [James Dean] is \"like a kid I went to class with\u2026\" which suggests to me a bond closer than fanfare or even from a biographer looking in too deep. The best way I know to describe this novel is: a mix of Chuck Palahniuk and Fifty Shades of Grey. (Don't panic, people - I haven't read and don't intend to read Fifty Shades. I've heard enough about it to use it as a comparison.) I love the way Guevara puts words together. I love the way he ties poetic lines and make them narrative. I love the way he develops characters; their backgrounds sink deep and find fresh drinkable water. But this one is a different angle with the same texture. Less sub characters in this one, and that romance bit, it doesn\u2019t quite ruin my appetite here. Which is to say... there's no way I could have completely embraced this book as a whole. I recommend Lips of a Mastodon to you. But if you want to read a more fantastic book by this author, read his collage of characters, which is True Feel. ...more I found this novel to be informative and entertaining, a sympathetic depiction of James Dean, the Indiana-born actor who made three major films in less than two years. Most of what was written in the book had a fresh take. Dean\u2019s affair with Pier Angeli, with all the vibrant, offbeat, sometime hilarious details, was new to me so it held my interest. But it was a sad story of a guy trying to fit a new girl in his life, to somehow replace the tragedy of his mother\u2019s death while he was under the ro I found this novel to be informative and entertaining, a sympathetic depiction of James Dean, the Indiana-born actor who made three major films in less than two years. Most of what was written in the book had a fresh take. Dean\u2019s affair with Pier Angeli, with all the vibrant, offbeat, sometime hilarious details, was new to me so it held my interest. But it was a sad story of a guy trying to fit a new girl in his life, to somehow replace the tragedy of his mother\u2019s death while he was under the roof his domineering father and a neutral step mother. Although things are settling in, Dean still recalls the abandonment of his father putting him in a train to go back to Indiana alone. Pier Angeli, a splash-in-the-pan star compared to Dean, seemed torn between her family and Dean and had no backbone whatsoever on whom to choose. However, she is happiest when she is with Dean. Her movie Silver Chalice was also a bygone compared to Dean\u2019s East of Eden. So, there was an obvious clinging to greatness in Pier. The author makes the love affair appealing, provocative and needed, in both of the characters\u2019 fates, and all the subplots and going-ons worked as well. Overall, it is new approach, one that keeps you reading and entertained. ...more We, my husband and I, agree with most of what is claimed under this novel, just not quite sure of how high the star rating gets! True, this unknown author has potential, perhaps a smooth quality to his writing, so fluid one tends to overlook grammatical errors. I found six. But yes, over time they can just be part of the book's characteristic. The plot is in order enough, day to day. One thing I see is every time that there's crisis, the flow of the narrative also goes asunder, not just in the a We, my husband and I, agree with most of what is claimed under this novel, just not quite sure of how high the star rating gets! True, this unknown author has potential, perhaps a smooth quality to his writing, so fluid one tends to overlook grammatical errors. I found six. But yes, over time they can just be part of the book's characteristic. The plot is in order enough, day to day. One thing I see is every time that there's crisis, the flow of the narrative also goes asunder, not just in the actions of the \"I\" person. I can call him the narrator, but he seems not to want that role. The rest of the characters are well-rounded, but nothing out of the ordinary. Some are close to being alike. This book is fiction, but the author is scraping his knees over actual past. He chooses that over pushing Hollywood nostalgia, which is perhaps the main attraction this book has to bait us into picking up a copy. If there is a three and a half stars I could click, it would be that. ...more Lips of a Mastodon is the story of James Dean's brief stint with the Italian actress Pier Angeli. But the book doesn't pretend to be a biography--or a painfully researched item so the enigmatic fan could point at an inaccuracy and raise hell. In fact the author or a disclaimer jots it down in the opening pages: This is a work of fiction. But with the cover, one of the more famous photos of the couple, the book says I have this \"in cement, enjoy it, for it had taken place....\" The \"this\" is a love Lips of a Mastodon is the story of James Dean's brief stint with the Italian actress Pier Angeli. But the book doesn't pretend to be a biography--or a painfully researched item so the enigmatic fan could point at an inaccuracy and raise hell. In fact the author or a disclaimer jots it down in the opening pages: This is a work of fiction. But with the cover, one of the more famous photos of the couple, the book says I have this \"in cement, enjoy it, for it had taken place....\" The \"this\" is a love story as it had never been told before, a little dirt, a little grungy, a little cinematic. But who's complaining and who can you complain to? The Fiction fairy? For the better part, Guevara just tries to enhance a fact or detail of truth to better understanding. He has the anchors. He is starry-eyed like the remaining of all of you James Dean fans. And he is from Indiana, probably from the same barn. ...more The concept is simple: extend East of Eden. I saw the movie some 20 years ago, and this novel, Lips of a Mastodon, made me want to analyze that movie some more. So I watched it again. And sure enough, evidence of balance between evolution and creationism are in both stories. Guevara uses the actor Ray Massey to further the idea, revealing an aftermath friendship with James Dean, basing it on who's-to-know. Not all the days of the rebel actor were recorded. This could have happened. This subplot The concept is simple: extend East of Eden. I saw the movie some 20 years ago, and this novel, Lips of a Mastodon, made me want to analyze that movie some more. So I watched it again. And sure enough, evidence of balance between evolution and creationism are in both stories. Guevara uses the actor Ray Massey to further the idea, revealing an aftermath friendship with James Dean, basing it on who's-to-know. Not all the days of the rebel actor were recorded. This could have happened. This subplot nicely compliments the love affair with Pier Angeli and all that is burdening the actor during his short life. More brooding on this may well make me tackle John Steinbeck's East of Eden, the real McCoy. Lips of a Mastodon can cause such an addiction. ...more I\u2019ve really been thinking a lot about this review. First off I am a fan of old Hollywood ever since I lived a very tiny tip of it in Sherman Oaks, occasionally mentioned in this novel. With the actor James Dean, I\u2019m more caught up with what was before my time. I approached the storyline with an open mind. The author here I feel is reaching at times just to woo. The first couple segments were interesting to read because it had history as backing. Then the writing style became a stream of consciou I\u2019ve really been thinking a lot about this review. First off I am a fan of old Hollywood ever since I lived a very tiny tip of it in Sherman Oaks, occasionally mentioned in this novel. With the actor James Dean, I\u2019m more caught up with what was before my time. I approached the storyline with an open mind. The author here I feel is reaching at times just to woo. The first couple segments were interesting to read because it had history as backing. Then the writing style became a stream of consciousness, yet with a little push, which is fiction. Not really disappointed. The first-person idea kept me upright. There were a couple of other segments that I liked namely the homespun background, which was not Tinseltown. ...more One thing I like about Ted Bernal Guevara\u2019s approach to his novel is that he gives equal distribution about the two actors on the amazing cover. Anna Maria is not an American actress but an Italian gem working for the first time in the states, and the author is very much aware of that. All the sentiments are there, and with the James Dean persona, the handling and the caring about the difference in traditions are evident. They are like apples and oranges when it comes to tradition. Although Mr. One thing I like about Ted Bernal Guevara\u2019s approach to his novel is that he gives equal distribution about the two actors on the amazing cover. Anna Maria is not an American actress but an Italian gem working for the first time in the states, and the author is very much aware of that. All the sentiments are there, and with the James Dean persona, the handling and the caring about the difference in traditions are evident. They are like apples and oranges when it comes to tradition. Although Mr. Dean had none, he unawarely puts Anna softly in his palms. Because of this, it is a terrific book! One that I can see becoming popular here in Italy and with Italians all over the world. I truly like it. ...more When I started this short book, I was convinced I was going to be caught and be involved. From the first-person pseudo-transfiguration the author has adopted, to the deepening love story between James Dean and actress Pier Angeli, I was hooked. Flawless interweaving to make a true occurrence into a novel. I was drawn in by Dean\u2019s often casual lingo (so real at times one would think the actor had written the book). I was also intrigued by famous celebs in the plot, who are candid, in their daily When I started this short book, I was convinced I was going to be caught and be involved. From the first-person pseudo-transfiguration the author has adopted, to the deepening love story between James Dean and actress Pier Angeli, I was hooked. Flawless interweaving to make a true occurrence into a novel. I was drawn in by Dean\u2019s often casual lingo (so real at times one would think the actor had written the book). I was also intrigued by famous celebs in the plot, who are candid, in their daily selves, making them compelling characters. The book got me excited Hollywood again, at the same time, Nostalgia. ...more One thing that lacks in the front cover or what this novel recommends before reading it is the note: YOU MUST BE A JAMES DEAN FAN! Guevara ventures on putting out a story written for the general adult audience and gambles on \"You don't need to know my characters beforehand. Just enjoy my narrative.\" Bold aim. To me, I pretended not to know James Dean and still had a joyous ride in what a novel puts you through, in reading Lips of a Mastodon. But that's me, a Hollywood flake. Furthermore, Guevara w One thing that lacks in the front cover or what this novel recommends before reading it is the note: YOU MUST BE A JAMES DEAN FAN! Guevara ventures on putting out a story written for the general adult audience and gambles on \"You don't need to know my characters beforehand. Just enjoy my narrative.\" Bold aim. To me, I pretended not to know James Dean and still had a joyous ride in what a novel puts you through, in reading Lips of a Mastodon. But that's me, a Hollywood flake. Furthermore, Guevara writes a nihilistic bent novel, in the tradition of Brett Easton Ellis and Palahniuk. The odds became higher. My urge to read just doubled. ...more I've loved James Dean for years and I've skimmed and read many books about him. This one kept my attention since it's a lovelorn story. It maybe part fiction but it does a fair and honest picture of the star. As much as I love him, it is sad to see his movies, knowing he was gone at age 24. Waste and sad. This book makes James Dean alive again! I read it twice. It's funny the publication was set on September 30, the day he had crashed his Porsche that ended his life. As a matter of fact, this book makes every famous persons in the story alive again (e.g. Natalie Wood, Marlon Brando, Paul Newman). This is the first fiction I've read in a very long time. Mr. Guevara usually publishes poetry. His latest, Birds on Elephant, I have on my shelf. Reads like velvet...definitely know James Dean now. I will watch his movies! I was gifted this book by the author. We struck up a casual conversation one day and to my surprise he said, \"I like to write.\" I thought, \"Okay? That's nice.\" But as we kept talking I knew he was serious. Mr. Guevara convinced me not by asking me to read, but by his passion for it. We talked about The Great Gatsby and other books we've both read. He vowed to bring me a copy of his latest book, \"Lips of a Mastodon.\" And low and behold the next day he brought it in for me, signed and all. So I re I was gifted this book by the author. We struck up a casual conversation one day and to my surprise he said, \"I like to write.\" I thought, \"Okay? That's nice.\" But as we kept talking I knew he was serious. Mr. Guevara convinced me not by asking me to read, but by his passion for it. We talked about The Great Gatsby and other books we've both read. He vowed to bring me a copy of his latest book, \"Lips of a Mastodon.\" And low and behold the next day he brought it in for me, signed and all. So I read it. And by God it was one of the best books I have read. Ted is a masterful artist with his words. Sometimes I had to go back and reread some paragraphs because I was so delighted with the wordplay. I am a Southern man by heart and have lived in his home state of Indiana for well over 2 years. And this book strikes home. I didn't know much about James Dean before reading this novel. But now I am sad to say that after going for a right in that bright red MG-TD of his. Speeding up and down the highways at light-speed. This book will give you whiplash, in a good way. You're almost there with Jimmie, pulling for him, fighting beside him, loving the character that has been portrayed. I rated this book 5 out of 5 and solemnly stand by that rating. Not because Ted is my friend, but because this is a damn good book. Grab a copy and you'll know what I mean. - Neil ...more I dig the fact that Mr. Guevara tries to inject the icon actor James Dean as a homespun, properly brought up young man before he came to Hollywood. But in truth Dean came from New York City before the filming of East of Eden, the time this novel is situated in, and had done all the damage to his reputation, in NYC. From this, I can tell you Guevara is a James Dean diehard fan, a \u201cDeaner\u201d they call it in Indiana. He is constantly repairing the image, the vulgar attitude, the high and mighty confid I dig the fact that Mr. Guevara tries to inject the icon actor James Dean as a homespun, properly brought up young man before he came to Hollywood. But in truth Dean came from New York City before the filming of East of Eden, the time this novel is situated in, and had done all the damage to his reputation, in NYC. From this, I can tell you Guevara is a James Dean diehard fan, a \u201cDeaner\u201d they call it in Indiana. He is constantly repairing the image, the vulgar attitude, the high and mighty confidence, and lastly the sleep-with-anyone-who-would-give-me-a-break venue. With the actor\u2019s fling with Pier Angeli, all these characteristics diminish into good and wholesome. Lips of a Mastodon takes it one step higher with the image. It puts it in a celestial, do-good, above evil realm. But once you get my meaning, keep on reading. It does have all the properties of being a novel, the only way Guevara can put his arms around all the fat. I read it and examined it because my cousin left it in my apartment. He and I, too, are Deaners, just outside of Indiana. ...more From the cover of this book, I can see the attraction constantly building up to the actor James Dean. He was a good looking person! And since he passed a good sixty years ago, the following to his legacy has become complex due to his looks. Stories have developed left and right, I imagine, and fans tend to pick the ones they're comfortable with, the way they want their idol to be. With that in mind, Lips of a Mastodon is careful not to spoil anyone's joyous celebration. It claims itself fiction. From the cover of this book, I can see the attraction constantly building up to the actor James Dean. He was a good looking person! And since he passed a good sixty years ago, the following to his legacy has become complex due to his looks. Stories have developed left and right, I imagine, and fans tend to pick the ones they're comfortable with, the way they want their idol to be. With that in mind, Lips of a Mastodon is careful not to spoil anyone's joyous celebration. It claims itself fiction. But the based-on events are true, the affair with Pier Angeli, the making of East of Eden and Dean's interactions with both famed stars and every day people he associated himself with. All the author had to do was piece the events together, with incredible transitions, to incorporate this remarkable, funny, emotionally draining story. I am not yet caught up in the fanaticism...but I did enjoy this novel. ...more This book was written by a friend of James Dean. He treats the subject matter with love and care. It outlines the love affair of James Dean and Pier Angeli. He loved her and wanted to marry her but she was over protected by her mother and could not beak with her. He was the boy from the wrong side of the track. She was a refined beauty. They could never had a future. I think she used him relentlessly then dropped him to marry Vic Damone. His need for speed eventually killed him at a young age. Received this book through Goodreads Giveaways. I know little of James Dean and was looking forward to this read. I felt the passion of Dean, but not the relationship. At times was confused by Dean's thoughts. They jumped around too much. Realize Mr. Guevara was trying to channel his character. The book just didn't do much for me. Lips Of a Mastodon is fiction but gives a voice to James Dean's love affair with Italian actress Pier Angeli in 1954. It is well written. Ted Bernal Guevara makes you feel as if James Dean is telling the story. It is a fast read and an interesting story. I received. this book thru Goodreads Giveaways The characterization of James Dean in this novel uses death as a primary tool. He is narrating from the grave. Though at peace, he prefers life, to the exact moment of the love he once knew. Interesting. Worth my time at night, at a toll booth.<---C>Ted Bernal Guevara</---C>", "Title": "Lips of a Mastodon"},
