{"Comments": "\u201dI turned around and saw him about one hundred rods [500 m or 550 yards] directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed of around 24 knots (<---B>44 km/h</---B>), and it appeared with tenfold fury and vengeance in his aspect. The surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. His head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship.\" \u2014Owen Chase, first mate of the whaleship Essex. \u201cThere she blows!\u201d was as much \u201dI turned around and saw him about one hundred rods [500 m or 550 yards] directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed of around 24 knots (44 km/h), and it appeared with tenfold fury and vengeance in his aspect. The surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. His head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship.\" \u2014Owen Chase, first mate of the whaleship Essex. \u201cThere she blows!\u201d was as much a part of my vocabulary as a child as \u201cLaunch the torpedoes\u201d or \u201cGeronimo\u201d or \u201cRemember the Alamo.\u201d I wasn\u2019t using it correctly, as I was not hunting whales in the middle of Kansas, but I did use it as a rallying cry for a charge against my childhood chums as we chased each other from one end of the farm to the other. Of course, in 1820 when a sharp eyed lad in the crow\u2019s nest spotted a spume on the horizon, he would yell down to his crew mates, \u201cThere she blows!\u201d and the chase would be on. The Nantucket ship Essex was commanded by a newly commissioned captain by the name of <---C>George Pollard</---C>. The ship,<---M> an old vessel</---M>, had always been thought of as a lucky ship, given that it had returned so many profits to the owners. Much of the crew was green and were on their first whaling voyage. The ranks of Nantucket sailors had been filled out with some African Americans and some men referred to as offshore men, meaning that they were not of Quaker Nantucket stock. Early in the voyage, they hit a squall that nearly heels them over. \u201cFor the green hands, the sound alone was terrifying: the shrieking of the wind across the rigging and then a frenzied flapping of sails and creaking of the stays and mast.\u201d Can you imagine that sound? I\u2019d be convinced that I was about to perish, especially when the ship begins to list. Captain Pollard does not spring into action as quickly as he should, but does finally give the right orders, and the good ship Essex rights herself. It was a foretaste of what was going to be a disastrous journey. In the 19th century, over 200,000 sperm whales were harvested for their spermaceti.<---F> (770,000 in the twentieth century</---F>. We always improve at killing things.) A normal sized whale will have about 500 gallons of this semi-waxy substance in their heads. When exposed to air, it turns to a semi-liquid and looks...you guessed it...like sperm. This oily substance was used to lubricate machinery during the industrial revolution and to light lamps. Eventually, this oil was replaced by lard and then by petroleum, which probably saved the sperm whale population from extinction. Yea, petroleum industry! The whalers also harvested the ambergris from the digestive tract of the whale, which was used as a fixative in perfume. Women didn\u2019t know it, but when they sprayed those beautiful scents on their necks and wrists, they were also spraying whale digestive juice on their carefully coiffed skins. A sperm whale, what a beauty! In this era, they did not have harpoons that are shot out of a cannon; they had to row right up next to the whale, and someone with the right skill and strength thrust the harpoon into the side of the whale. These are large mammals, the largest toothed whale, reaching upwards of 80 feet long (now only about 65 feet which has been attributed to the excessive hunting of the largest males who, therefore, did not have a chance to pass on their genes.) and weighing 45 tons. They also have the largest known brain of any extinct or modern animal weighing in at 17 lbs. If they can avoid the harpoons of man and keep out of the reach of Orcas, they can live up to 70 years. Once the harpoon was in the whale, the sailors became the fastest moving humans on the planet as the whale would try to escape by fleeing at upwards of 27 mph while pulling the boat and crew along with it. It is about finding that sweet spot in the harpoon so it is balanced perfectly in your hand. You can smell the whale. You can hear the grunts, groans, and farts of the rowers as they try to keep you level with the creature. Your face is slick with whale spume and sweat. You know you might only have one chance at this. You let go the thunderbolt in your hand and hope you will hear the meaty impact of a man killing a god. It wasn\u2019t unusual for green hands to upchuck over the side as they watched the death of a whale. <---A>Nathaniel Philbrick</---A> gives a description below that left tears stinging my eyes. There is something so majestic about a whale that even the most primitive thinkers among us must feel on some level that killing a whale is an affront against a higher power. When you kill something larger than yourself, something that displays such intelligence, you have to feel the world has been diminished. \u201dWhen the lance finally found its marks, the whale would begin to choke on its own blood, its spout transformed into a fifteen-to twenty-foot geyser of gore that prompted the mate to shout. \u2018Chimney\u2019s afire!\u2019 As the blood rained down on them, the men took up the oars and backed furiously away, then paused to watch as the whale went into what was known as its flurry. Beating the water with its tail, snapping at the air with its jaws--even as it regurgitated large chunks of fish and squid--the creature began to swim in an ever tightening circle. Then, just as abruptly as the attack had begun with the first thrust of the harpoon it ended. The whale fell motionless and silent, black corpse floating fin-up in a slick of its own blood and vomit.\u201d As I was looking through Rockwell Kent\u2019s art for Moby Dick, I was surprised how well I remembered each of the sketches even though I haven\u2019t read the book for decades. So they take the oil, some blubber, and the ambergris; those parts had ready value that made Nantucket in the heyday of the whaling era very wealthy. \u201dThe rest of it---the tons of meat, bone, and guts---were simply thrown away, creating festering rafts of offal that attracted birds, fish, and, of course, sharks. Just as the skinned corpses of buffaloes would soon dot the prairies of the American West, so did the headless gray remains of sperm whales litter the Pacific Ocean in the nineteenth century.\u201d As I was reading this, even before Philbrick brought forth the comparison to the eradication of the buffalo in the same century, I was having flashbacks to Butcher\u2019s Crossing by John Williams. I had to stop and go read something else for the rest of the day. I needed a break to absorb what I had read and also to create some distance between myself and the horrifying images of whales dying that Philbrick so vividly shared with me. As I did with the buffalos in Butcher\u2019s Crossing , I also found myself rooting for the whales. Something triggered in one whale, a monster 85 foot creature, who instead of fleeing from these puny humans turned around and crashed into them. \u201dInstead of acting as a whale was supposed to---as a creature \u2018never before suspected of premeditated violence, and proverbial for its inoffensiveness\u2019---this big bull had been possessed by what Chase finally took to be a very human concern for the other whales.\u201d Thomas Nickerson, the cabin boy and youngest member of the crew, drew this sketch of the attack. This St. George of the deep, more dragon than man, with two mighty thrusts with his head turned the Essex into a splintered, sinking wreck. This story of the Essex is what so famously inspired Herman Melville to write his masterpiece Moby Dick. A commercial failure when released, over time has proved to be a canon of American literature. The story of the Essex has continued to be taught in American History classes, inspiring children with the tale of survival. Moby Dick may not appear on many high school syllabuses anymore. The daunting 600+ page count is simply too much for the curricula of the school system, but I did see it appear on a college syllabi not too long ago; unfortunately only excerpts were being studied. The survival of eight crew members out of a total of twenty is harrowing indeed. A new captain used to taking orders instead of giving orders listened to some bad advice from his first and second mates. 95 days in a boat could have been shortened to mere weeks if he had stuck to his original thinking. There are some interesting discussions about the demise of all the black sailors and of most of the offshore men. In fact, the only three offshore men who survived are the ones who opted to stay on an island rather than continue in the boats. The Nantucket men stuck together, and all five who stayed in the boats who survived were Nantucket men. Philbrick will describe the effects on the body, experiencing extreme thirst and the metabolic rates. Women and older people with lower metabolism actually do better in cold water or in cases of extreme hunger. As gallant as vigorous men like to be, giving extra rations to women and older people, they actually, logically, should be keeping those rations for themselves. Men with high muscle content, who naturally need more calories, will suffer the quickest loss of mass and will die first. Captain Pollard is older and slightly rotund, which gives him an advantage over the younger, leaner sailors. As food and water disappear, they must resort to the most desperate of measures. \u201dThe men were not much more than skeletons themselves, and the story that would be passed from ship to ship in the months ahead was that they were \u2018found sucking the bones of their dead mess mates, which they were loath to part with.\u2019 \u201d Flesh Blood Bone Marrow There is a 2015 movie based on this book that is also called In the Heart of the Sea starring Chris Hemsworth, Benjamin Walker, and Cillian Murphy. I love the visual that the movie poster conveys. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more There's one thing you need to know about me: I\u2019ve never listened to a song by Rush all the way through. Really. If Alvin and the Chipmunks were re-imagined as opera singers, the lead singer could be bass. I can't take them seriously. Okay, okay. Really there are two things you need to know about me: I distrust people who walk on the balls of their feet. You know, that little bounce? Call it instinct, but I see something morally deficient in it. It's like Nature is giving the rest of us a heads-up There's one thing you need to know about me: I\u2019ve never listened to a song by Rush all the way through. Really. If Alvin and the Chipmunks were re-imagined as opera singers, the lead singer could be bass. I can't take them seriously. Okay, okay. Really there are two things you need to know about me: I distrust people who walk on the balls of their feet. You know, that little bounce? Call it instinct, but I see something morally deficient in it. It's like Nature is giving the rest of us a heads-up. Hold on. There are three things you need to know about me: At the age of three, I watched the movie Jaws in its entirety from the back seat of my parents Volkswagen Bug at a drive-in theater. Poor things thought I was asleep and had absolutely no intention of traumatizing their only child. To this day, I have an abnormal fear of the ocean, yet I am morbidly drawn to stories about the same. No, wait. There're four things you need to know about me: I don\u2019t like to work. At all. I'd go so far as to assert that I am entirely abnormal in my contempt for it. A sort of cynical pragmatism colors my approach to adult life and all its attendant cares. I think of myself as seeking out a sort of hedonistic equilibrium whereby I maximize the amount of money I earn while doing the least amount of work. And to that end, I am happy to report, I have been largely successful. Why am I sharing all this? Because, taken in total, it shows that I would make a very poor excuse of a whaleman in this, our present age, let alone the early-19th century. Sure, it's altogether speculative to take a modern fellow like myself and plant him in an earlier time. What if I'd been raised in a whaling family? A whaling tradition? Bosh. Trust me in this. I was raised in a working class family and it didn't take me long to understand what work does to you: it takes your best years, covering them in spoonfuls of regret little by little until you realize too late all the money in the world can't buy back what you could've done, what you could've been. Why do we American inheritors of the Nantucket Quaker whaling business model always prove so stressed out whenever the United Nations releases its latest sociological metrics? Because we spend all our time away from our friends and families, doing stuff we don\u2019t like, so we can buy stuff we don't need. No. Leisure is the truest wealth. Me? I would've sought out some petty job, made merry in my off-hours and, hopefully, have been literate enough to enjoy some letter-writing and the occasional book. Fine, you say. What's this got to do with Nathaniel Philbrick's book? Well. It means all you overachieving-types would\u2019ve been on that doomed ship while I sat comfortably on terra firma. You should be happy about that, at least. Consider some of the aforementioned details about me -- I'm obviously prone to psychological imbalance. I surely would have cannibalized you had we found ourselves in the dire circumstances of the crew of the Essex, adrift for over three months in the South Pacific. And my probability of success would've been more than fair: I stand 6'4\" tall, have pointy eye teeth, and a trailer park adolescence mean streak. True, I am near-sighted, but this would only be a minor inconvenience since I would only have to track you around a twenty-foot long boat. Where are all your Goodreads votes now, fancy pants? ...more I have never, ever, in my LIFE, met a nonfiction book I was unable to put down before. This may be because I am stupid, but I like to think it's because I'm interested in the details. Most nonfiction I've encountered is either written by: a.) Someone who experienced something interesting, but who can't write about it in an interesting way, or b.) Someone who perhaps usually writes about things in an interesting way, but who wasn't able to experience the critical subject firsthand. Philbrick bridges I have never, ever, in my LIFE, met a nonfiction book I was unable to put down before. This may be because I am stupid, but I like to think it's because I'm interested in the details. Most nonfiction I've encountered is either written by: a.) Someone who experienced something interesting, but who can't write about it in an interesting way, or b.) Someone who perhaps usually writes about things in an interesting way, but who wasn't able to experience the critical subject firsthand. Philbrick bridges the critical gap. What did the water look like when the 80 ton whale barreled toward the ship? What does it feel like to starve/thirst to death? What happens to your eyelids? What did Captain Pollard shout when his cousin's lot was drawn? Philbrick may not have been there in the whaleboats, but he knows so much about his topic, he may as well have been. (The notes and select bibliography themselves take up another 50-or-so pages, most of them primary sources.) What's really impressive to me about all of the research Philbrick did, is how, through the overwhelming web of whaling and Nantucket and cannibalism that must have become his mind, he maintained a grip on what would interest his audience. Just as you begin to ask a question, he answers it. Just as you come to a realization (\"wow, so the whales' social lives were structured a lot like the Nantucketers'\") he articulates it -- of course, better than you had, and often utilizing the words \"predator\" and \"prey\". Masterful. ...more Best piece of non-fiction I\u2019ve read in years \u2013 I know it\u2019s a clich\u00e9 but you can\u2019t make this stuff up! In 1819, a whaling ship is rammed by a sperm whale, not once but twice and the surviving crew drifts for 90 days in three tiny boats, Captain Bligh\u2019s 48 day ordeal pales in comparison. They eventually turned to cannibalism which call me weird I didn\u2019t have a problem with. A card carrying organ donor I figure I\u2019m dead anyway - eat me. When it came down to drawing lots though, that pushed my butto Best piece of non-fiction I\u2019ve read in years \u2013 I know it\u2019s a clich\u00e9 but you can\u2019t make this stuff up! In 1819, a whaling ship is rammed by a sperm whale, not once but twice and the surviving crew drifts for 90 days in three tiny boats, Captain Bligh\u2019s 48 day ordeal pales in comparison. They eventually turned to cannibalism which call me weird I didn\u2019t have a problem with. A card carrying organ donor I figure I\u2019m dead anyway - eat me. When it came down to drawing lots though, that pushed my buttons. Well researched but never dry \u2013 a nail biter that reads like fiction. Delivered what I was expecting, a tragic tale that \u201chappens to be one of the greatest true stories ever told\u201d and so much more. The background on Nantucket well done, exploring the religious influence of Quakerism, how with the men gone for years at a time it was virtually run by women. Philbrick\u2019s handling of the moral & ethical dilemmas these men struggled with was beautiful, the inclusion of the Melville / Captain George Pollard connection icing on the cake. Cons: Maybe the characterizations could have been stronger, I wasn\u2019t all that sympathetic to their plight but that\u2019s probably not fair, I was routing for the whales. I did feel bad for them when they were later set upon by killer whales though, I mean enough already \u2013 being attacked by a 80 ft. sperm whale wasn\u2019t enough? This city girl worked for a couple of summers on a 35 foot Gillnetter. Trust me, being in a small boat out in the middle of the Pacific surrounded by a pod of killer whales (they like salmon too) is intimidating friggin terrifying! Warning: Animal lovers will find the description of whale slaughter harsh - their butchering aptly described \u201cAt night the deck of the Essex looked like something out of Dante's Inferno\u201d As is the inhumane treatment of the giant tortoises they harvested from the Galapagos Islands \u2013 heart breaking. The Movie: Ron Howard\u2019s has begun film production \u2013 comes out in 2014 ...more \"It was a tale of a whale-man's worst nightmare: of being left in a boat far from land with nothing left to eat or drink and perhaps worst of all......of a whale with the vindictiveness and guile of a man.\" This deadly true story of the 1820 (85' long, 80 ton) whale attack on the Essex was not exactly what I expected, but oh so much more. It begins with background of Captain and crew, the unimaginable time spent away from home and how their wives coped in their absence often resorting to use of l \"It was a tale of a whale-man's worst nightmare: of being left in a boat far from land with nothing left to eat or drink and perhaps worst of all......of a whale with the vindictiveness and guile of a man.\" This deadly true story of the 1820 (85' long, 80 ton) whale attack on the Essex was not exactly what I expected, but oh so much more. It begins with background of Captain and crew, the unimaginable time spent away from home and how their wives coped in their absence often resorting to use of laudanum, opium and a plaster penis. (ouch!) Anyway, a tragedy, that could have been avoided, takes survival to its ultimate limits...... \"For as long as men had been sailing the world's oceans, famished sailors had been sustaining themselves on the remains of dead shipmates\" ......as cannibalism is, for the most part, humanely described within this narrative. While graphically vivid, IN THE HEART OF THE SEA turned out to be an exceptionally informative history lesson for me with an epilogue from Nathaniel Philbrick that says it all..... \"The Essex disaster is not a tale of adventure. It is a tragedy that happens to be one of the greatest true stories ever told.\" MOBY DICK (1851) Now a must-read (I hope) ...more OMG THIS IS BECOMING A MOVIE OMG OMG OMG I AM SO HAPPY RIGHT NOW WAY more exciting than I expected! Nathaniel Philbrick knows how to resurrect history into a living, breathing present, a present filled with tension and full-immersion. If you have any interest in whaling, the age of sail, and shipwrecks, you'll not do better than In the Heart of the Sea . It's very much like the non-fiction version of Moby Dick , made all the more intense for being the real deal. In fact, the historic event depicted in this book is the basis for Melville's story. Philbrick gives WAY more exciting than I expected! Nathaniel Philbrick knows how to resurrect history into a living, breathing present, a present filled with tension and full-immersion. If you have any interest in whaling, the age of sail, and shipwrecks, you'll not do better than In the Heart of the Sea . It's very much like the non-fiction version of Moby Dick , made all the more intense for being the real deal. In fact, the historic event depicted in this book is the basis for Melville's story. Philbrick gives you many of the same whale facts as appear in Moby Dick but in a smaller, more manageable amount. Because this is non-fiction you expect facts and dates and text booky et ceteras. They don't sneak up on you like they do in Moby Dick , where readers joyously enjoying a romping whale of a tale are suddenly stove in and sunk by a lengthy treatise on whale and whaling facts. Also, Philbrick just knows how to entertain. I even enjoyed his book on the Pilgrims...THE PILGRIMS, for the love of god! Even dull history comes alive in his hands. Frankly I'd rather read In the Heart... again a half dozen more times than read Melville's mammoth once more. NOTE ON THE MOVIE VERSION Little Opie from Mayberry directed the movie version of this book and did a fair job. Thor and Catelyn Stark are in it and they're all right. Actually, there's a ton of familiar faces in this one. Anyhow, the movie stays mostly faithful to the book and the true events as they happened. A few tweaks were made, no doubt for dramatic effect. Some of the actors' \"Boston\" accents are most successful than others. But honestly, I just went to see it because I was in the mood for a good, solid adventure flick. That it's based on a true story is always a plus. All the same, I'd stick with the book. Or, if you want to get all the facts straight (as straight as recorded history can provide) after seeing the movie, you should definitely give Philbrick's book a read. ...more This book was so engrossing that I felt as if I had worked on a whaling ship and had survived a disaster at sea. In 1820, the whaleship Essex was in the middle of the Pacific Ocean when a massive whale rammed the ship not once, but twice, sinking it. The crew had to scramble for provisions and escaped into three boats. They set sail for South America, which was nearly 3,000 miles away. They soon ran out of fresh water and food, and eventually resorted to cannibalism. Only eight men out of 20 sur This book was so engrossing that I felt as if I had worked on a whaling ship and had survived a disaster at sea. In 1820, the whaleship Essex was in the middle of the Pacific Ocean when a massive whale rammed the ship not once, but twice, sinking it. The crew had to scramble for provisions and escaped into three boats. They set sail for South America, which was nearly 3,000 miles away. They soon ran out of fresh water and food, and eventually resorted to cannibalism. Only eight men out of 20 survived. This tragedy was so famous in the 1800s that it inspired Herman Mellvile's novel Moby Dick . Nathaniel Philbrick is a skilled writer of history, weaving together the details of the disaster and providing context to both the whaling industry in the 19th century and the island of Nantucket, which was considered home to most of the crew. Philbrick also considers the psychology and emotions of Captain George Pollard, First Mate Owen Chase, Cabin Boy Thomas Nickerson and of other crew members. The leadership style of Pollard is especially interesting; Philbrick compares him to other captains and explorers and wonders if some lives could have been saved if Pollard had been more authoritarian. One of the details that is fascinating is that Pollard and the crew decided to try to reach South America, when they knew they were closer to several islands. They had heard legends about cannibals on the islands, and were afraid to go there: \"Only a Nantucketer in November 1820 possessed the necessary combination of arrogance, ignorance and xenophobia to shun a beckoning (albeit unknown) island and choose instead an open-sea voyage of several thousand miles.\" The book includes several pictures of what the Essex looked like, including a sketch from one of the survivors. Even though it was just a drawing, it was chilling to see a giant whale take aim at a ship. There are also several maps, including one featuring the entire voyage of the Essex: It left from Nantucket island in New England, sailed across the Atlantic Ocean, then all the way down South America, around Cape Horn, then up the western coast of South America, reaching the Equator and then heading west, deep into the Pacific Ocean. The sheer distance and magnitude of the journey boggles the mind. Nowadays we get grouchy if our Internet speed is too slow, or if our airplane flight is delayed a few hours because of weather. Reading about the patience, planning and fortitude required to survive such a journey -- even without the shipwreck -- is truly astounding. Finally, I'd like to thank my fellow Goodreaders for recommending such an incredible work of nonfiction. This is what I love about this site: I doubt I would have read this if I hadn't seen several rave reviews from you fine folks. Now I'm hooked on Philbrick and want to read all of his books. ...more This was a fascinating and very readable true account of the whaleship Essex and its crew which left Nantucket in 1820 only to meet with disaster fifteen months later in the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean. I have been interested in learning more about this tragedy for some time, but honestly didn't expect to become so absorbed in this book! Having very little knowledge of the whaling industry and maritime travel in general, I was nevertheless easily able to follow the story thanks to the tale This was a fascinating and very readable true account of the whaleship Essex and its crew which left Nantucket in 1820 only to meet with disaster fifteen months later in the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean. I have been interested in learning more about this tragedy for some time, but honestly didn't expect to become so absorbed in this book! Having very little knowledge of the whaling industry and maritime travel in general, I was nevertheless easily able to follow the story thanks to the talent of Nathaniel Philbrick. Providing the reader with a wealth of information, Philbrick fills in gaps of knowledge in a way that is compelling rather than mundane. The background of the Nantucketers and Quakerism, the historical details of the whaling ships, the hierarchy of the ship's crewmen, the particulars of sailing, the effects of starvation and dehydration, and even superstition are brought to light as a result of the author's extensive research. The relationships between the captain, the first mate and the rest of the crew and the characteristics of these whalers seem to reflect an intriguing culture of its own in the world of whaling. I was amazed by some of the poor decisions made by this crew throughout their journey, even prior to their ship being rammed by the massive sperm whale. The level of violence involved in actually killing and processing a whale was astounding considering the extremely pious nature of these men; but as Philbrick notes: \"Nantucketers saw no contradiction between their livelihood and their religion. God Himself had granted them dominion over the fishes and the sea.\" At the same time, this spiritual devotion must also have given these men strength during their days at sea while they struggled to survive thousands of miles from the shores they sought for their salvation. The human survival element of this book makes it a page-turner and is quite gripping and at times even terrifying and disturbing. This is indeed a well-written and brilliantly researched book which I recommend to anyone interested in tales of survival. After learning that this true story of the Essex and the monstrous whale that caused her demise are the inspirations behind Herman Melville's writing, I have now renewed my desire to re-read that once-formidable book Moby Dick ! 4 stars ...more IMPORTANT UPDATE: The great reader in the sky has answered my prayers and made a movie based on this story - starring Chris Hemsworth - so I already count one ironclad reason to watch this . The trailer states that the Essex goes beyond the known world, which no it didn't, but I'm also fairly sure that Owen Chase's jaw wasn't nearly as square as Hemsworth's, so I'm willing to allow poetic license. Also, I may root for the whale. The first trailer is here . ---- This was SO gruesome and weirdly gripp IMPORTANT UPDATE: The great reader in the sky has answered my prayers and made a movie based on this story - starring Chris Hemsworth - so I already count one ironclad reason to watch this . The trailer states that the Essex goes beyond the known world, which no it didn't, but I'm also fairly sure that Owen Chase's jaw wasn't nearly as square as Hemsworth's, so I'm willing to allow poetic license. Also, I may root for the whale. The first trailer is here . ---- This was SO gruesome and weirdly gripping. I mean, it's a nonfiction book about whaling - how interesting can it be? Turns out: REALLY INTERESTING. Even before you reach the cannibalism (!), the descriptions of what whaling entails are fascinating. You could not pay me 32 million dollars to throw a harpoon at an enraged whale on the open ocean in a tiny whaleboat, and you certainly could not pay me $32 in 1820s money to do so. Isn't it crazy that the Nantucket whaleships' routine journey was through the Atlantic, around Cape Horn, and into the Pacific Ocean?? In an 1820s-era ship made out of wood, with captains (cough Pollard cough) who couldn't even perform lunar navigation? WTF is this voyage map? Here are some things you can learn from the tragedy of the whaleship Essex : \u00b7 Don't sign on to a whaleship. It doesn't even pay that well anymore, now that we have natural gas and stuff. \u00b7 Moby-Dick sounds like an engaging book that I want to read right away. If this is not a desirable side effect for you, I would suggest skipping this book entirely. \u00b7 Whalers used to pick up Galapagos tortoises by the dozens, stick them in the holds of their ships, neglect to feed them or give them anything to drink, and wander downstairs whenever they wanted some fresh meat. ??? \u00b7 Starvation and dehydration are miserable ways to die, right up until the VERY end of your life. The psychological and physiological effects of starvation take months (perhaps years) to heal. And, once you start to eat other people, you're effectively part of a \"modern feral society,\" one in which you begin an amoral fight for survival. Your small group will tear itself apart (heh), and there is no going back. \u00b7 The first and second mates of the Essex convinced the captain they shouldn't sail for the Society Islands - where there might be cannibals - but instead back towards the coast of South America, which is more than an additional thousand nautical miles. Philbrick mentions that the Nantucketers are a curious mixture of arrogance, ignorance, and xenophobia. This becomes even more obvious when you find out that they ate all the black sailors first. \u00b7 Herman Melville served on a whaling ship with Owen Chase's son, who told him about his father's story and gave him Owen's manuscript to read. Ralph Waldo Emerson mentions in his diary, years before Moby-Dick , the tale of a whaler obsessed with tracking down the whale that ruined his ship. It's possible that could be Owen Chase. I tore through this book and I'm still unsettled by it. Maritime history has a long, dark past of cannibalism and shipwreck that you don't really think about. That past becomes obvious once you begin thinking about the realities of life - and death - at sea. This book manages to pack a lot into ~250 pages: the rise and fall of Nantucket, the incredible journeys that whaleships routinely sailed, and what it's like to live in desperation. It's all fascinating, and I had no idea that Moby-Dick was rooted in an event that most nineteenth century Americans would have known about. ...more Hang on. So the crew of the Essex (quite apart from their whole whale-killing society being an early contributor to majorly endangering the species as a whole): -go on one of their epic whale-killing journeys; -slaughter a bunch of whales; -capture, abuse and slaughter a huge bunch of Galapagos tortoises; -set fire to an entire Galapagos island for a fucking lark ; -get COMPLETELY UNFAIRLY, UNPROVOKEDLY AND WITH MALICIOUS INTENT attacked by a sperm whale (I mean, how very DARE that fucker?) so their s Hang on. So the crew of the Essex (quite apart from their whole whale-killing society being an early contributor to majorly endangering the species as a whole): -go on one of their epic whale-killing journeys; -slaughter a bunch of whales; -capture, abuse and slaughter a huge bunch of Galapagos tortoises; -set fire to an entire Galapagos island for a fucking lark ; -get COMPLETELY UNFAIRLY, UNPROVOKEDLY AND WITH MALICIOUS INTENT attacked by a sperm whale (I mean, how very DARE that fucker?) so their ship sinks; -proceed to aimlessly drift around the Pacific in three little boats for three months; -manage through sheer ignorance and bad management to sail in the complete opposite direction from any number of islands that would have comfortably rescued them with no fuss at all; -instead land on some barren rock that they eat bare of what few birds and crabs it has within about 3 days; -then AGAIN proceed to sail in the completely wrong fucking direction because they're irrationally scared that more attainable islands might contain cannibals; -then predictably run out of food and, instead of having to deal with completely hypothetical cannibals on some friendly island, turn into VERY FUCKING LITERAL CANNIBALS in their tiny boats; -by not at all suspicious coincidence eat all the black guys first; -the horribly incompetent captain ends up having his 17-year-old cousin shot and eaten (awkward homecoming, that: \"Hey Nancy, so the good news is I'm alive!\" -\"Uhm, where's my teenage son that I entrusted specifically to your care?\" -\"Yeah well, you know how they say the dead live on inside us...?\"); -then, once they've been whittled down by their own idiocy to one handful of pathetic morons, get rescued by sheer dumb luck; ...and we're thrilled and amazed at this brave feat of survival and human endurance HOW? Why? Really? Because I'm all Team Whale here. The book was entertaining, though. ...more One of the most riveting, enlightening, gut-wrenching, macabre, unfathomable, heart-pounding, culture-defining, era-appalling, extremely well-written and fastidiously researched non-fiction books I've read this year. That was a mouthful!!! <+++>In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex</+++> : So much more than a survival tale or a seafaring story or Nantucket legend or the catalyst for the literary classic: Moby Dick . \"The Essex disaster is not a tale of adventure. It is a tragedy that hap One of the most riveting, enlightening, gut-wrenching, macabre, unfathomable, heart-pounding, culture-defining, era-appalling, extremely well-written and fastidiously researched non-fiction books I've read this year. That was a mouthful!!! <+++>In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex</+++> : So much more than a survival tale or a seafaring story or Nantucket legend or the catalyst for the literary classic: Moby Dick . \"The Essex disaster is not a tale of adventure. It is a tragedy that happens to be one of the greatest true stories ever told.\" Within these pages (which you'll be compelled to turn ever-so quickly) there are undercurrents of societal and mariner hierarchies: man against man, man against the sea, man against God's creation, and ultimately, Man against the Creator. There is also an exploratory look at what life was like on the whaling island of Nantucket during the eighteen-hundreds; before, during, and after the Essex tragedy. Talk about PTSD! How could anyone live any type of normal life after such horrors. Thus, be FOREWARNED. Not only are the descriptions of whaling exceptionally gruesome and stomach churning. Cannibalism, though decorously described as best anyone can, nearly sent me hurling!!Weep, oh I did!!! I still shudder thinking about those unfortunate souls - the living and lived upon. Lest I completely scare away the fainthearted, let me stress: the bulk of the story isn't macabre or gruesome. Philbrick utilizes a more history-enriching humanistic approach, really. And he does an amazing job balancing all the various aspects surrounding this tragic event; all without being overly graphic, or padding with hype, or rambling on and on about unrelated subject matter. His writing is crisp, compelling, and concise - yet expounding as necessary for clarification or era/locale/societal enhancement. The movie should be great - if Hollywood doesn't over-sensationalize the macabre. Five - Compelling though Cautionary - Stars ...more Meticulously researched, written in a way that is easy to follow the narrative, and excellently narrated by the ever-reliable Scott Brick. Looking forward to another book by Nathaniel Philbrick! I got sucked into the idea behind this in part, and mainly due to, the imminent release of the film adaptation -- and seeing in the trailer that this is the story which inspired Moby Dick (another classic I have yet to read, but that's another story for another time). Beyond that limited knowledge, I went Meticulously researched, written in a way that is easy to follow the narrative, and excellently narrated by the ever-reliable Scott Brick. Looking forward to another book by Nathaniel Philbrick! I got sucked into the idea behind this in part, and mainly due to, the imminent release of the film adaptation -- and seeing in the trailer that this is the story which inspired Moby Dick (another classic I have yet to read, but that's another story for another time). Beyond that limited knowledge, I went into this blind and it was a stunning account of human survival. It was fascinating to me to learn so much about the people of the time period. The majority of the people in Nantucket had never even SEEN a whale -- and yet these were the creatures supplying them with so much oil to go about their daily lives? The mens' greed and lust for the oil whales gave was palpable in the beginning. Later, their aversion to cannibalism seemed to wear off quickly, although when you're in survival mode, living really is the only thing that matters. Still, I have to cheer for the whale that wrecked their vessel in the Pacific. He saw a threat and he took it out, no mistake. The fact that any of them survived the following ordeal is, I think, a credit to their sheer willpower and a certain amount of luck, by the end. I made a note in one update about how they couldn't catch a break, but then, I don't know that I wanted them to. I wanted them to suffer and get back some of the bad karma they'd been dealing. However intriguing it was to read about their rescue and subsequent lives, I backed the whale all the way. ...more A terrific read, based on original documents recovered long after the events described in the book, which took place mostly in 1820. Part of the true story formed the basis for Melville's \"Moby Dick.\" Brave men set out for a 3 year journey to find and kill whales and process the blubber into oil. The owners of the ship and the captain stand to get rich; most of the crew will make barely enough to survive. But on this voyage, after their ship is battered by a huge sperm whale, many do not survive. A terrific read, based on original documents recovered long after the events described in the book, which took place mostly in 1820. Part of the true story formed the basis for Melville's \"Moby Dick.\" Brave men set out for a 3 year journey to find and kill whales and process the blubber into oil. The owners of the ship and the captain stand to get rich; most of the crew will make barely enough to survive. But on this voyage, after their ship is battered by a huge sperm whale, many do not survive. Philbrick's descriptions of what they go through are powerfully rendered, especially when wrong decisions are made that make things much worse than they might have been. It is also interesting to consider that each of the narratives on which this book are based reflects the point of view of the writer, and may not be the precise truth, like all history. Another aspect of the book is the description of Nantucket in the 19th century, which for those who have been there touches some interesting emotions. A wonderful place with some dark undertones. ...more Once I was well into this non-fiction record, I could not put it down. The detail and research! The maps, the retained evidence and not the least is the history and onus of Nantucket. Nathaniel Philbrick not only relates all minutia of this chronological multi-year saga of the Essex, but also sets that in the proper setting- like a gem in an elaborate piece of jewelry. The Quaker religion, worldview and how that worked into the patterns of work for whaling! The language itself surrounding itself Once I was well into this non-fiction record, I could not put it down. The detail and research! The maps, the retained evidence and not the least is the history and onus of Nantucket. Nathaniel Philbrick not only relates all minutia of this chronological multi-year saga of the Essex, but also sets that in the proper setting- like a gem in an elaborate piece of jewelry. The Quaker religion, worldview and how that worked into the patterns of work for whaling! The language itself surrounding itself with new words in most particular aspect for action or object for this complex martial occupation. This book taught me much more about the terms for motions, parts of the vessel, hierarchy toward purposes and context for ships than any other I have read. And demonstrates them in graphics, lists, maps, photos. Apart from the voyage maps. It's a lifestyle that meant the men were home for 3 months out of 3 years gone. And that many women were happy about the fact, as well. Much of this book if put into a fiction piece would be deemed strongly unbelievable. That it has happened and has such documentation. And also that Philbrick has here applied this to current scientific criteria, not only about whale species; of sperm, right, blue- but also about homo sapiens original expansions to and within the Pacific. Awesome book. Not only included to depth are the sections upon the discourse of, about and within the sea, but on the land at home, as well. For us \"coof\". This book will not condemn with judgment- it will relate the factual so you yourself can have \"eyes\". And most of what you see will not be clean nor will it be pleasant. Every process is completely in each partial piece of progression described. Down to the emotional when it occurs. And the noise, and the smells, and the sounds. Sometimes accompanied by insanity. The process of \"trying out\" on the deck flats! You aren't going to get this in Moby Dick. This is far superior. Gut-wrenching and macabre, not just a couple of times either. Each of the 20 men are given biography before its over. Not forgetting any of the \"after\" in this investigation for the roles the survivors played in later years. It is appalling. And it also is daunting to conceive how these men went farther and farther and farther for the liquid \"gold\". To the point where they had no idea of the islands or lands around them at all. Resulting in not having the facts, but believing the hype- and thus going 3000 plus miles out of their way for \"help\". What a work is man. ...more Also on my blog The Periodic Table of Elephants . Any reader who has read 'The Life of Pi' and 'Moby Dick' should be all over this as both works of fiction were inspired by the tragic events of the Essex. The Essex was an American whaling ship that was attacked by a disgruntled sperm whale (well the whalers had attacked it with harpoons) and sunk in the south-western Pacific in 1820. All the crew survive the sinking but they are stranded in the middle of the Pacific, in a region desolate of life, Also on my blog The Periodic Table of Elephants . Any reader who has read 'The Life of Pi' and 'Moby Dick' should be all over this as both works of fiction were inspired by the tragic events of the Essex. The Essex was an American whaling ship that was attacked by a disgruntled sperm whale (well the whalers had attacked it with harpoons) and sunk in the south-western Pacific in 1820. All the crew survive the sinking but they are stranded in the middle of the Pacific, in a region desolate of life, and they seem to want to make it back to civilisation the hardest way possible. Hilarity ensues. That was sarcasm. Nathaniel does a magnificent job in describing the events on the Essex. But what also sets this book apart is his description and history of the whaling industry of Nantucket. The town is dominated by Quakers at the time and it is interesting how that justified this religion with systematic slaughter of animals and bolstered a whole industry around it. For a supposedly peaceful and placid religion, these people were blubberthirsty.I don't know if this is spoilerific (can history have spoilers?) but it also goes on to talk about the aftereffects of the tragedy and how the survivors went on living. But the heart of the story is that of the survival of the sailors. How they relied on each other and how they tried to survive despite all odds. Having read this after years after reading 'The Life of Pi' I feel a bit ripped off. There are so many parallels in the fictional story, and it would have been great to get all the references. A great read that taught me a lot about the whaling industry with a lot about ocean survival. Recommended to all fans of those two fictions I mentioned earlier and would make a great gift for someone going on a cruising holiday. ...more Superb rendering of the Nantucket whaling community and the disaster that befell the Essex in 1821. 1,500 miles off the coast of Chile, it was rammed and sunk by a sperm whale. Eight of 20 men survived the 4,500 mile, 3 month journey to safety in whaleboats. Cannibalism is an uncomfortable part of the story and is thoughfully, not luridly, treated. The story helps elucidate some of what it means to be human, our mastery of amazing feats as a collective and the courage and resourcefulness of indi Superb rendering of the Nantucket whaling community and the disaster that befell the Essex in 1821. 1,500 miles off the coast of Chile, it was rammed and sunk by a sperm whale. Eight of 20 men survived the 4,500 mile, 3 month journey to safety in whaleboats. Cannibalism is an uncomfortable part of the story and is thoughfully, not luridly, treated. The story helps elucidate some of what it means to be human, our mastery of amazing feats as a collective and the courage and resourcefulness of individuals in the face of death. As odious as whaling is for slaughtering intelligent creatures for oil, it is worth noting that at the peak of of 19th century whaling, about 5,000 sperm whales were being harvested a year compared to nearly 30,000 per year with the technology advances in the 20th century. Sperm whales are believed to number in the millions now and are not endangered; right whales obviously never recovered from the whaling industry. ...more Um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o a relatar o naufr\u00e1gio de um baleeiro norte-americano em 1820. \u00c0 partida, n\u00e3o seria algo que me suscitasse muito interesse, mas como a sua adapta\u00e7\u00e3o cinematogr\u00e1fica estreou h\u00e1 pouco tempo e a hist\u00f3ria aqui relatada inspirou o famoso Moby Dick, de Herman Melville (que ainda n\u00e3o li), senti a motiva\u00e7\u00e3o suficiente para viajar at\u00e9 ao s\u00e9culo XIX e embarcar nesta perigosa viagem. O in\u00edcio do livro cont\u00e9m o necess\u00e1rio enquadramento da partida do Essex da ilha de Nantucket, \u00e0 data a Um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o a relatar o naufr\u00e1gio de um baleeiro norte-americano em 1820. \u00c0 partida, n\u00e3o seria algo que me suscitasse muito interesse, mas como a sua adapta\u00e7\u00e3o cinematogr\u00e1fica estreou h\u00e1 pouco tempo e a hist\u00f3ria aqui relatada inspirou o famoso Moby Dick, de Herman Melville (que ainda n\u00e3o li), senti a motiva\u00e7\u00e3o suficiente para viajar at\u00e9 ao s\u00e9culo XIX e embarcar nesta perigosa viagem. O in\u00edcio do livro cont\u00e9m o necess\u00e1rio enquadramento da partida do Essex da ilha de Nantucket, \u00e0 data a maior pot\u00eancia na balea\u00e7\u00e3o. Sabia alguma coisa sobre a atividade, por ter visitado o Museu dos Baleeiros na ilha do Pico, mas nada que se compare com o n\u00edvel de detalhe aqui apresentado. Os termos t\u00e9cnicos n\u00e1uticos e relacionados com a atividade come\u00e7am a abundar e, nessa altura, temi que o livro se fosse tornar algo aborrecido. N\u00e3o poderia estar mais enganada. Os termos t\u00e9cnicos continuam, o dia-a-dia da tripula\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e9 descrito com detalhe, ainda que n\u00e3o exaustivamente (o que \u00e9 compreens\u00edvel, dada a dist\u00e2ncia temporal e os documentos dispon\u00edveis relativamente \u00e0 viagem), a ca\u00e7a \u00e0 baleia \u00e9 bastante explorada, mas a verdade \u00e9 que n\u00e3o consegui parar de ler. H\u00e1 j\u00e1 alguns meses que isto n\u00e3o me acontecia, por isso tenho de tirar o chap\u00e9u a Nathaniel Philbrick: conseguiu contar de uma forma muito interessante uma hist\u00f3ria que facilmente poderia transformar-se num relato enfadonho. N\u00e3o \u00e9 nem demasiado exaustiva nem demasiado superficial e possui detalhes e observa\u00e7\u00f5es relevantes que n\u00e3o exaltam em demasia a sua opini\u00e3o pessoal. Apesar de j\u00e1 saber o destino do navio Essex e ter uma ideia das prova\u00e7\u00f5es da sua tripula\u00e7\u00e3o ap\u00f3s o naufr\u00e1gio, o autor leva-nos numa viagem de resist\u00eancia e sobreviv\u00eancia, que demonstra os extremos a que o ser humano pode ir e que deixa o leitor siderado. No Cora\u00e7\u00e3o do Mar \u00e9 relatado num tom jornal\u00edstico, sem grandes floreados, que se adequa na perfei\u00e7\u00e3o \u00e0 hist\u00f3ria que quer contar; a pesquisa feita pelo autor \u00e9 not\u00e1vel e est\u00e1 documentada de forma bastante detalhada. Para isso, provavelmente contribuiu o facto de Nathaniel Philbrick ser tamb\u00e9m ele um marinheiro, com vasto historial no jornalismo n\u00e1utico, e de ser claramente algu\u00e9m que \u00e9 apaixonado pelo assunto e sabe do que fala. Durante os poucos dias que esta leitura me tomou, vivi um pouco com aquela tripula\u00e7\u00e3o e passei um pouco das suas priva\u00e7\u00f5es. Aprendi muito, fiquei mais rica. Tive vontade de ler mais livros de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o, para conhecer mais do que foi e \u00e9 este mundo em que vivo. Foi um dos poucos livros a que atribu\u00ed a nota m\u00e1xima em 2015 e, por isso, n\u00e3o posso deixar de o recomendar. J\u00e1 n\u00e3o recuava, o Essex agora afundava-se. A baleia, tendo humilhado o seu estranho advers\u00e1rio, libertou-se dos peda\u00e7os de madeira estilha\u00e7ados do casco revestido a cobre e nadou para sotavento, para nunca mais ser vista. ...more One of most the most gruesome books I've ever read. Astonishingly beautiful. Please read it. I wrote a paper on Herman Melville\u2019s \u201cMoby Dick\u201d for my senior year AP English class and received an \u201cA+\u201d for it... WITHOUT HAVING READ THE DAMNED BOOK! Not bragging (okay, maybe a little...), but it\u2019s a testament to two things: 1) the great in-depth class discussions about the book in Mr. Milheim\u2019s class from which I took copious notes and 2) my talent for bullshit. I could write a paper on any topic, not knowing anything about said topic, and make it sound great, by simply bullshitting my way I wrote a paper on Herman Melville\u2019s \u201cMoby Dick\u201d for my senior year AP English class and received an \u201cA+\u201d for it... WITHOUT HAVING READ THE DAMNED BOOK! Not bragging (okay, maybe a little...), but it\u2019s a testament to two things: 1) the great in-depth class discussions about the book in Mr. Milheim\u2019s class from which I took copious notes and 2) my talent for bullshit. I could write a paper on any topic, not knowing anything about said topic, and make it sound great, by simply bullshitting my way through it. This is pretty much how I made it through college... But that\u2019s beside the point. The point is: I have never actually read \u201cMoby Dick\u201d, and I kind of feel guilty about that. It is, after all, one of those American Literature \u201cclassics\u201d that many learned people revere, talk about, and quote from constantly. I consider myself a pretty well-read person, but never having read \u201cMoby Dick\u201d is, in my opinion, a glaring shortcoming on my part. I know, I probably shouldn\u2019t feel that guilty. Lots of people haven\u2019t read it either. Probably for the same reasons I could cite for not finishing it: Melville\u2019s tendency to interrupt the narrative with chapters describing whale physiognomy, types of whaling vessels, the history of the whaling industry, etc.; the slow build of character introductions and scene-setting; the complete inability to find any relevance to my own life. I mean, seriously, what do 19th-century Nantucket whalers on a voyage to hunt down an elusive whale have anything to do with me? The question is meant to be rhetorical, although the answer is a definite \u201cnothing\u201d. Still, if I had read Nathaniel Philbrick\u2019s \u201cIn the Heart of the Sea\u201d before attempting \u201cMoby Dick\u201d, I may have had a better appreciation for Melville\u2019s classic, and I may have actually finished it. Here\u2019s why, in reasons listed in importance from least to most: 1) I probably could have skipped over some of the chapters in Melville\u2019s book in which he writes about the different types of whales in the sea, the brief history of the whaling industry, and the different types of boats. Philbrick does a fantastic job of incorporating all of that in this book, and he has the benefit of writing his book with a 21st-century knowledge. Philbrick\u2019s information is, at the very least, up-to-date. Not that I probably would skip those parts, but having a better understanding of what Melville was talking about may have helped me slog through some of the more boring long-winded chapters to the heart of the novel. 2) Philbrick helps answer the question, \u201cWhy should I be interested in a book about whalers from Nantucket?\u201d The simple answer is that the whaling industry was, in its heyday, a major player in the global economy and of major importance for the economy of the fairly-new United States of America. Nantucket, Massachusetts---being at the center of this lucrative whaling industry---was one of the most important cities in the United States at the time. Knowing how important whaling was to our nation\u2019s financial success in its early years may have gone a long way in enticing me to read further in Melville\u2019s book. 3) Knowing that \u201cMoby Dick\u201d was based on an actual incident, and a terrifying and sad one at that, would have given me that spark of interest to read further. I\u2019m sure it was mentioned at some point during Mr. Milheim\u2019s class discussions that Melville based his novel on the very real story of the whaleship Essex, which, in November 1820, was struck not once but twice by a sperm whale in the middle of the Pacific. It may have been mentioned, but it didn\u2019t fire my imagination at the time. Perhaps it was because I didn\u2019t know the full story, which Philbrick so wonderfully elucidates in grand detail. If I had known that the motivation behind \u201cMoby Dick\u201d was a true story that makes \u201cJaws\u201d seem tame and that involves cannibalism on the high seas, I would have devoured that novel. The weirdness and the creepiness of the Essex tragedy probably trumps its historical significance, but Philbrick writes the story as if it is still vitally important. In a sense, it still is, especially knowing what we now know about the environment, how ecosystems thrive, how we are decimating animal species into extinction horrifically, especially whales, and how intricately the global economy is intertwined with environmental issues. Clearly, Philbrick is conscious of all that, but if that was his sole intent, it would be a whole lot of preaching to the choir for most readers. I think Philbrick just knows a damn good story when he hears one, and the Essex tragedy is still a damn good story. So good, in fact, that it has encouraged me to finally give \u201cMoby Dick\u201d the chance it finally deserves. ...more This is such a fascinating book. I\u2019ve never really lived close to a coastline in which the ocean itself is the source of income and sustenance, and have only visited New England once, but this book makes me want to take a trip to Nantucket Island right now to see and experience at least some of the history of this harsh lifestyle. We are all probably at least somewhat familiar with the story of the Essex , especially with the movie being released just a few weeks ago. Most of us know that it was t This is such a fascinating book. I\u2019ve never really lived close to a coastline in which the ocean itself is the source of income and sustenance, and have only visited New England once, but this book makes me want to take a trip to Nantucket Island right now to see and experience at least some of the history of this harsh lifestyle. We are all probably at least somewhat familiar with the story of the Essex , especially with the movie being released just a few weeks ago. Most of us know that it was the basis of Herman Melville's Moby-Dick; or, The Whale . Some of us may have even read one of the myriad of children\u2019s and young readers\u2019 books in school about this epic tale of survival. Philbrick has taken one of the most tragic events in nautical history and written a gripping, informative book about whaling, Nantucket Island, desperation, courage, weakness, redemption, survival and shame. Of course, this is a story about shipwreck and survival, and has some fascinating subplots. Captain Pollard, whose voyage with the Essex as his first as captain, faced many personal crises as he was forced to make difficult choices, even jeopardizing the life of his own nephew, crewman Owen Coffin. Philbrick explores the fear of cannibalism that drove the Essex sailors to avoid relatively close South Pacific islands after the wreck (about a thousand miles away), in favor of a very risky and lengthy trip to South America (almost four thousand miles). The harrowing situation only seems to get worse as time goes on (93 days!), as the trade winds push them away from their intended destination, the hunger and thirst which drove the survivors to near-insanity, and the drastic measures taken for their survival. Along with telling the story of the wreck and the crew\u2019s struggles for survival, Philbrick provides an in-depth background of Nantucket in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, digging into the small island's religious customs (the Quakers dominated life on the Island), and describes what life was like for a sailor on the whaling vessels: where they slept on board, what they ate, how they were disciplined, how they killed and processed whales (while still at sea), and how much money the captain and crew stood to earn from a typical voyage. Philbrick also reveals the class system of life on a whaling vessel: Nantucketers at the top, non-islanders next, then mainlanders. It is interesting to note that there was very little racism (Quakers were among the first abolitionists); the ships\u2019 captains didn\u2019t care what color your skin was, as long as you could work hard and take orders. All in all, a gripping read. It is written with great compassion and strict attention to detail. The author has obviously done his research. I was particularly impressed with the end of the book, as he followed the careers and lives of the survivors; one crew member even sailed with Captain Pollard again (he lost this ship to disaster, as well). Drawing from the journals of two survivors, the first mate and a cabin boy, whose accounts of the disaster sometimes digress, Philbrick was able to paint a near-complete picture of the entire event and its aftermath. He also drew striking parallels with the actions of Captain Bligh (Mutiny on the Bounty) as he survived himself on the open sea, as well as modern-day medical and scientific studies on the effects of starvation on the human body as well as the psychological effects of cannibalism. The narrator for the Audible version, Scott Brick, was outstanding. Like a great history professor lecturing on a much-researched topic, he was able to recount the history of Nantucket and the tension of the tragedy perfectly. Pick up this book! Even if you are not at all interested in sailing, whaling, nautical history, or true-life survival stories under the harshest of conditions, you will not be disappointed. ...more In the ninth grade I had a world history teacher that made each class seem like a fascinating story instead of a boring lecture that can be the standard fare. Nathaniel Philbrick has brought to life the story of the sinking of the Nantucket whale ship Essex by a ferocious sperm whale. An artist's rendition of the revenge of the sperm whale attacking the Essex: An actual photo of a sperm whale which is about the size of a school bus: In college I was forced to read parts of Herman Melville's cla In the ninth grade I had a world history teacher that made each class seem like a fascinating story instead of a boring lecture that can be the standard fare. Nathaniel Philbrick has brought to life the story of the sinking of the Nantucket whale ship Essex by a ferocious sperm whale. An artist's rendition of the revenge of the sperm whale attacking the Essex: An actual photo of a sperm whale which is about the size of a school bus: In college I was forced to read parts of Herman Melville's classic Moby Dick which I hated. It was the sinking of the Essex that inspired Melville to write Moby Dick. Philbrick's book focuses more on what happened after the Essex sank. It was a bone sucking survival adventure! ...more This was mesmerizing, mind blowing, and suspenseful. Whaling was a part of history I didn't care to read much of because of the cruel, barbaric aspects, but after deciding that I had to read this I was NOT disappointed! I cannot even begin to try to put a review together because of all that happens in this book, but I will say this was a fantastic history lesson for me. RECOMMENDED HIGHLY. \"Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell\u2019s heart I stab at thee; for hate\u2019s sake I spit my last breath at thee.\" - Moby-Dick I've been wanting to read this book for years. Patiently it sat, right behind me, waiting. I enjoyed Philbrick's Mayflower and Sea of Glory . Given how much I love Moby-Dick , I'm kinda surprised it took me so long (15 years) to read this history of the Essex. Philbrick paces this narrative well. He patches t \"Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell\u2019s heart I stab at thee; for hate\u2019s sake I spit my last breath at thee.\" - Moby-Dick I've been wanting to read this book for years. Patiently it sat, right behind me, waiting. I enjoyed Philbrick's Mayflower and Sea of Glory . Given how much I love Moby-Dick , I'm kinda surprised it took me so long (15 years) to read this history of the Essex. Philbrick paces this narrative well. He patches together all the major perspectives. When the story leaves gaps, he dead reckons and is able to fill the story in with similar types of accidents, aggressive whale experiences, sailors, oil, blood, starvation, and -- well -- other episodes of cannibalism. He is able to humanize the captain, the first-mate, and the people of Nantucket (while also giving serious consideration for all the other sailors; those from Nantucket, outlanders, and black sailors too). It was a quick read, and compelling. ...more DNF @ 45% In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex is an excellent historical account that has been well researched and includes the journal entries of the Whaleship Essex's cabin boy. I personally did not finish it because the writing is a bit dry for my personal taste as a reader - kind of textbook-ish if that makes sense. There are fans of history books who would absolutely devour this title, but I personally need my history reading to feel a bit more like a flowing story in DNF @ 45% In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex is an excellent historical account that has been well researched and includes the journal entries of the Whaleship Essex's cabin boy. I personally did not finish it because the writing is a bit dry for my personal taste as a reader - kind of textbook-ish if that makes sense. There are fans of history books who would absolutely devour this title, but I personally need my history reading to feel a bit more like a flowing story in order to stay focused and invested. I found myself zoning out one too many times so I just put it aside. To be fair, I did skip ahead to some random chapters to see if the writing changes at all but it remains consistent from what I could tell. A film adaptation is being released so I may just wait for that. Who knows, depending on how I respond to the film, I might pick up this title and try again! If you're a fan of the history genre, don't overlook this one! Learning about how the whales are hunted, caught, and killed for their oil and other parts was hard to read, but it is history (as well as present-day unfortunately) so it's important to be aware. Besides, it looks like the whales had the last laugh in the end (even though I didn't actually read it haha). Try it and see what you think! ...more Just how I like my history books: Interesting. Many (most?) history books get bogged down in the details discovered during the well-meaning author's research, losing the story somewhere amid a plethora of sleep-inducing minutiae. But not here. Author Nathaniel Philbrick keeps front and center the mesmerizing story of the 19th century Nantucket whaleboat Essex, sunk after being rammed by a giant sperm whale, its crew afloat in whaleboats in the Pacific for weeks as their limited provisions eventu Just how I like my history books: Interesting. Many (most?) history books get bogged down in the details discovered during the well-meaning author's research, losing the story somewhere amid a plethora of sleep-inducing minutiae. But not here. Author Nathaniel Philbrick keeps front and center the mesmerizing story of the 19th century Nantucket whaleboat Essex, sunk after being rammed by a giant sperm whale, its crew afloat in whaleboats in the Pacific for weeks as their limited provisions eventually expire. Philbrick's well-researched account not only synchronizes multiple witness recollections, but provides historical context with regards to the Nantucket community and the 19th century American whaling industry, and he does it all in 238 unputdownable pages. How many history books get made into a movie with the guy who played Thor? And this real-life story was also the inspiration for the ultimate whale tale: Moby-Dick. High time to get to sea as soon as you can indeed. ...more 3 stars - It was good. This one started off slow for me as it was primarily about ships and killing whales, two topics that hold little interest to me. Around 1/3 of the way through is when the tragedy occurred and from there on, it was a very engaging survival story. I still have a hard time with the ignorance mankind had in the past and continues to have today in regards to our planet's resources. I find it very interesting that subsets of cultures historically had more awareness and were bette 3 stars - It was good. This one started off slow for me as it was primarily about ships and killing whales, two topics that hold little interest to me. Around 1/3 of the way through is when the tragedy occurred and from there on, it was a very engaging survival story. I still have a hard time with the ignorance mankind had in the past and continues to have today in regards to our planet's resources. I find it very interesting that subsets of cultures historically had more awareness and were better stewards (Native Americans come to mind), but unfortunately it seems they were the minority. I heard once that humans are much like cancer, spreading quickly and using up all the resources in their path, and that fitting description has never left my mind. Throughout this novel I was in turn shocked by the arrogance, greed and ignorance of these men as they laid waste to every locale they visited, and later was shocked by the tenacity, courage, and will to live the same men bravely displayed. I found the author's writing to not quite have the page turning narrative nonfiction quality that others have successfully mastered, such as Daniel James Brown , but nor was the writing dry or flat. There were numerous interesting factual tidbits through out and I am grateful for the new knowledge. For example, I was not aware that the Pacific ocean is larger than all of the Earth's landmasses combined. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: Nantucketers saw no contradiction between their livelihood and their religion.....Yet all shared in a common, spiritually infused mission - to maintain a peaceful life on land while raising bloody havoc at sea. Pacifist killers, plain-dressed millionaires, the whalemen of Nantucket were simply fulfilling the Lord's will. First Sentence: Like a giant bird of prey, the whaleship moved lazily up the western coast of South America, zigging and zagging across a living sea of oil. ...more Outstanding! What a story - review to come. I'm a sucker for stories about exploration and survival. My bookshelves are littered with them: \"The Lost City of Z,\" \"Into Thin Air,\"\"The River of Doubt,\" \"Blue Latitudes,\" \"The Perfect Storm,\" \"The Terror.\" You hand me a book about shipping disasters or Amazonian perils or Shackleton or the search for the Northwest Passage, and if it is at all well-researched and readable, I am in. But find me one that references something I know, an area with which I am already familiar - and there is somethi I'm a sucker for stories about exploration and survival. My bookshelves are littered with them: \"The Lost City of Z,\" \"Into Thin Air,\"\"The River of Doubt,\" \"Blue Latitudes,\" \"The Perfect Storm,\" \"The Terror.\" You hand me a book about shipping disasters or Amazonian perils or Shackleton or the search for the Northwest Passage, and if it is at all well-researched and readable, I am in. But find me one that references something I know, an area with which I am already familiar - and there is something even more tempting and immediate about its draw. That's why \"In The Heart of the Sea\" seems like a book that was custom written just for me. A thrilling true story about a shipping disaster in the 1800's that gives brilliant detail about the Nantucket seafaring community of the time, its uniquely constructed society, its dependence upon sperm whale oil for its financial success, all of the anthropological nuances of that culture brought to life, but also tells - in harrowing detail - the story of one tragic voyage, a voyage that would ultimately become the basis for one of literature's greatest novels, \"Moby Dick.\" Exhaustively researched, this book succeeds on many levels, largely due to its investment in the lives and fates of our main characters. Much the way Sebastian Junger made us experience (as if first-hand) the unique swordfishing community of Gloucester in his book \"A Perfect Storm\" and made it a place we could literally see in our mind's eye, populated with people we came to know and care about, so too does Nathaniel Philbrick bring the early Quaker enclave of Nantucket to life and attempt to describe the inner lives of the men who would go to sea on this ill-fated voyage, as well as those of the women left behind, often for two years at a time. The description of early Nantucket, in fact, was nearly as interesting as the description of the tragedy itself, one of those rare occasions when the backstory really is as essential to our understanding as the main event. I won't get into specifics here, but the quest for sperm whale oil in the 1800s may have been one of the most dangerous and incomparably brutal occupations ever known to humans, and Philbrick describes the process in awe-inspiring detail. That every crew who sailed for that purpose did not suffer a similar fate is the true miracle of the tale. I will tell you this. This is not a book about a tragedy, it is a tale about a series of tragedies, each one more disheartening and insurmountable than the last. Be prepared for a dark voyage into corners of the human psyche few care to contemplate. Yes, there are glimmers of hope along the way, and yes, there is a great deal of history and adventure here. But at its heart, this is a tale of bad luck, poor decisions, and the truly dire consequences that can occur when those elements converge with the power of the sea and its creatures, unmoved by the desire of men to master and tame them. Every bad thing you can imagine happens in these pages. Even a few things you never dared to imagine. In less talented hands this would be a lurid tale of brutality, gore, death and despair. In Philbrick's hands, it is a thoughtful narrative on what living beings are able to endure, how our behaviors define us, and in the end, what constitutes humanity. ...more In the process of telling the story of the whaleship Essex and its crew, Philbrick reveals the mindset of the 19th century whaling industry, which can so easily be extrapolated to the rest of the country. Whales, buffaloes, cod, tortoises, trees.............if you could kill it, cut it, sell it, you were doing God's work. What now seems so disturbing makes so much sense in the context of the times. Even though I love Melville's Moby Dick with a passionate intensity, the realism of its narrative In the process of telling the story of the whaleship Essex and its crew, Philbrick reveals the mindset of the 19th century whaling industry, which can so easily be extrapolated to the rest of the country. Whales, buffaloes, cod, tortoises, trees.............if you could kill it, cut it, sell it, you were doing God's work. What now seems so disturbing makes so much sense in the context of the times. Even though I love Melville's Moby Dick with a passionate intensity, the realism of its narrative never quite convinced me. I always knew it was fiction, even though based on Melville's seafaring experiences. Now I know better. Philbrick brings everything viscerally to life. The specifics of harpooning a whale, its death throes, its butchering, and finally the cooking of its oil in try pots make up only a small part of the narrative. As important as these details are to understanding the \"art\" of whaling, they're not nearly as gripping as the story of the men on the ship and their relationships with each other. When the Essex is stove by an 85-foot sperm whale in the middle of a vast blank endless ocean, I couldn't put the book down. Twenty men in three small whale boats attempt to make their way to South America. Their psychological and physical disintegration is fascinating to follow. After the \"'cotton-mouth phase'\" of thirst, and the tongue and throat pains associated with it, came the \"agonies of a mouth that has ceased to generate saliva. [. . . ] Next is the 'blood sweats' phase, involving ' a progressive mummifcation of the initially living body.' The tongue swells to such proportions that it squeezes past the jaws. The eyelids crack and the eyeballs begin to weep tears of blood.\" This is the \"living death.\" Philbrick smoothly weaves in the stories of other starving men, other survivors, additional studies, and previous shipwrecks, to deepen the reader's understanding of what must have occurred to the crew of the Essex . The survivors left their written accounts, but Philbrick's book goes further by putting their tragedy in larger context. Nantucket - and its whaling industry - is a case study. The 19th century's dependence on clear burning whale oil made the island rich for a short time. To the Nantucketers it probably felt like a permanent condition, but then the ships got bigger and the deeper harbors (Sag, New Bedford) took much of their business. (And, as an aside, \"an increasing number of sperm whales were fighting back). Then, holy moly, Edwin Drake \"struck oil in Titusville, Pennsylvania, in 1859.\" So long whale oil. Eye-opening: \"Nantucketers and their Yankee whale-killing brethren harvested more than 225,000 sperm whales between 1804 and 1876. In 1837, the best year in the century for killing whales, 6767 sperm whales were taken by American whalemen.\" BUT before you direct disgust at the 19th century know that \"in 1964, the peak year of modern whaling, 29,255 sperm whales were killed.\" I found everything about this book interesting, but the psychological aspects of surviving 93 days at sea is what I found most compelling. By the time the men begin to eat the bodies of their shipmates, you have to admire how long they'd lasted on the crumbs of ruined hardtack. ...more", "Title": "In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex"},
