{"Comments": "I am blown away by how good this book was! V,<---M> the main character</---M>, is a vampire and quite a powerful woman\u2026in many different ways. ;-) However, there was a vulnerability about her that I haven\u2019t seen with many vamp books. This one is about so much more than vampires. I love the \u2018family\u2019 she has created and the loyalty that exists. This book was a roller coaster ride \u2013 one moment I was cringing in disgust, the next moment I was laughing out loud and then the next moment I was tearing up. Several t I am blown away by how good this book was! V, the main character, is a vampire and quite a powerful woman\u2026in many different ways. ;-) However, there was a vulnerability about her that I haven\u2019t seen with many vamp books. This one is about so much more than vampires. I love the \u2018family\u2019 she has created and the loyalty that exists. This book was a roller coaster ride \u2013 one moment I was cringing in disgust, the next moment I was laughing out loud and then the next moment I was tearing up. Several times while I was reading it, I wanted to stop and copy quotes because they were hilarious or priceless. The book is gritty, raw, very well written\u2026it\u2019s like a Stephen King/Anne Rice cocktail. One of the things I loved most about this book is that <---A>Dennis Sharpe</---A> writes fearlessly. Maybe that\u2019s what reminds me so much of Stephen King\u2026he writes those scenes that you can\u2019t believe came from a human\u2019s mind, but you know the book wouldn\u2019t be nearly as good without them. Absolutely one of the best books I\u2019ve read, and I know that certain parts of this book will stick with me for a long time. ...more Um did you read that synopsis? A vampire madam , ghosts, and *gasp* (<---B>my fav</---B>) ZOMBIES! Sounds super awesome right? Right from the get go, I freaking LOVED Veronica. She's sharp, funny and has a totally killer attitude... and she's a madam! Is it crazy strange that I loved this little idiosyncrasy about her? Maybe so. I HAVE to say that I am absolutely astonished that a man wrote this book, and I don't mean that in a bad way at all! Sharpe made Veronica undeniably real. I've read awesome books writt Um did you read that synopsis? A vampire madam , ghosts, and *gasp* (my fav) ZOMBIES! Sounds super awesome right? Right from the get go, I freaking LOVED Veronica. She's sharp, funny and has a totally killer attitude... and she's a madam! Is it crazy strange that I loved this little idiosyncrasy about her? Maybe so. I HAVE to say that I am absolutely astonished that a man wrote this book, and I don't mean that in a bad way at all! Sharpe made Veronica undeniably real. I've read awesome books written by men featuring male protagonists and I've read amazing YA books by men featuring adolescent chicks... but never have I read a book written by a man featuring such a well-written adult woman. That being said, there is a freakishly shocking (and dare I say gross) sex scene in chapter 9... and you guys know me- I like fictional sex of any kind! I'm not all that particular about it and I'm generally fairly difficult to catch off guard...<---F> but whoa</---F>. After the 'zombie sex' I was completely ready to recant my theory about his writing women so well- because no woman would do that. THEN, I thought about it for awhile, and realized this Sharpe guy is a freaking genius! Because ONLY a woman would do that to get her child back. Well played! A few words of caution: <+++>Blood & Spirits</+++> is pretty gory and graphic sometimes. 4.5 Stars and lacking the additional .5 only because I would've liked to see more relationship building with Veronica and Garrett. They have this totally intense relationship with nothing backing it, so I was convinced he was a bad guy throughout the entire thing! ...more First of all, I have to say I'm surprised that a male author wrote this book from a woman's point of view, and did it well! Veronica, the lead in this story, is a vampire who runs a brothel. She is a strong, likeable character that gets herself into a lot of trouble. She basically adopts an 8 year old ghost named Rachel, whom she becomes really close to. When Rachel is taken, Veronica is determined to get to the bottom of it. Veronica is desperate and willing to do anything for answers, which in First of all, I have to say I'm surprised that a male author wrote this book from a woman's point of view, and did it well! Veronica, the lead in this story, is a vampire who runs a brothel. She is a strong, likeable character that gets herself into a lot of trouble. She basically adopts an 8 year old ghost named Rachel, whom she becomes really close to. When Rachel is taken, Veronica is determined to get to the bottom of it. Veronica is desperate and willing to do anything for answers, which include some cringe-worthy moments. Veronica is a very well written character, and you can feel the emotions she goes through in this book. Garrett enters the story and tries to help Veronica get things sorted out. He seems like the perfect guy for her, but I feel like he's hiding something. Actually, my favorite character is Frank. Apparently, he is gay but I couldn't help but want to see him and Veronica together. He does so much for her and I feel that he is in love with her, but I may not be reading into that quite right. The explanation of vampires in this book is different from other books. This is a very original, fast paced story. There is action all the way through. If you like zombies, vampires, and spirits - with a little bit of gore, then you will probably enjoy this book. The only thing that I wanted more of is romance. Of course, that's just a personal preference - I'm a sucker for romance. The sex scene in this story is probably the most disturbing one I've ever read, lol... Now that I've piqued your interest - go get this book and see what I mean! ...more I'm a first time book reviewer. I guess I should start by saying that I normally read urban fantasy and paranormal romance. I heard about this book on goodreads listopia lists. I bought this book from amazon.com, based on the reviews I read here. I got it and ended up staying awake until after three in the morning finishing it. I was hooked from the first chapter. It was easy to read, moved at a fast pace, had an exciting plot, and really believable characters I could sink into. It\u2019s nice to rea I'm a first time book reviewer. I guess I should start by saying that I normally read urban fantasy and paranormal romance. I heard about this book on goodreads listopia lists. I bought this book from amazon.com, based on the reviews I read here. I got it and ended up staying awake until after three in the morning finishing it. I was hooked from the first chapter. It was easy to read, moved at a fast pace, had an exciting plot, and really believable characters I could sink into. It\u2019s nice to read a tough vampire chick with a heart, and conflicting emotions. The books starts with Veronica, the main character going to pick up the one who \u201cmade\u201d her from the airport because she\u2019s gotten herself in some serious trouble. From there the story tells us, as she tells him, how she got in the mess. We get to see the small town she lives in and all the people she cares for. I\u2019ve never seen vampires that were structured like these, or an explanation of vampirism quite like this one. This author and this new series both seem wonderful. I can\u2019t wait to get book two. I highly recommend this book. If you like Jim Butcher, Kelley Armstrong or Chloe Neill, then you will most definitely love this. ...more I loved this book! I\u2019m a sucker for any book with vampires (except the sparkly kind), but this was exceptional. Admittedly, it did take a few chapters to really catch my interest, but once it did, I couldn\u2019t put this book down. The characters are very well-written and surprisingly funny. My favorite character has to be Veronica, a strong-willed vampire madam with a sarcastic sense of humor \u2013 how can she not be completely awesome, right? Right. Sharpe\u2019s writing is refreshing. I was so astonished I loved this book! I\u2019m a sucker for any book with vampires (except the sparkly kind), but this was exceptional. Admittedly, it did take a few chapters to really catch my interest, but once it did, I couldn\u2019t put this book down. The characters are very well-written and surprisingly funny. My favorite character has to be Veronica, a strong-willed vampire madam with a sarcastic sense of humor \u2013 how can she not be completely awesome, right? Right. Sharpe\u2019s writing is refreshing. I was so astonished that a man could write such a dynamic female main character that I repeatedly checked the cover to make sure Dennis wasn\u2019t a Denise. I can\u2019t wait to read the next book in the trilogy. Reviewed by Brittany for Book Sake. httP;//booksake.blogspot.com ...more I was completely amazed by Veronica. A Vampire with real heart, soul, emotions, desires, and fears. Not larger than life immortal kinds of things, but real down to earth things that almost any girl could relate to. She wants to protect what's hers, and those she cares about, even if she wishes from time to time she didn't care so much. I can't wait to see where the second book in this series is going to lead V, but I hope we get to see more of her relationship with Garrett. I felt like there just I was completely amazed by Veronica. A Vampire with real heart, soul, emotions, desires, and fears. Not larger than life immortal kinds of things, but real down to earth things that almost any girl could relate to. She wants to protect what's hers, and those she cares about, even if she wishes from time to time she didn't care so much. I can't wait to see where the second book in this series is going to lead V, but I hope we get to see more of her relationship with Garrett. I felt like there just wasn't enough there in this book. They need more time together, and we need to know more about him. An awesome book. Anyone who likes Paranormal fiction with good plot, and real punch, should check this out. ...more Review Courtesy of Dark Faerie Tales Quick & Dirty: Down and dirty first person narrative that follows a \u201cmadam\u201d vampire and her troubles. Opening Sentence: I\u2019m told that it\u2019s an oddity that I still sleep. The Review: In a market flooded with vampire stories, I was not expecting much from debut author, Dennis Sharpe. I have never been so happy to be wrong. <+++>Blood & Spirits</+++>, the first book in The Coming Storm series, is as gritty as it is captivating. I am also pleasantly surprised at how well Review Courtesy of Dark Faerie Tales Quick & Dirty: Down and dirty first person narrative that follows a \u201cmadam\u201d vampire and her troubles. Opening Sentence: I\u2019m told that it\u2019s an oddity that I still sleep. The Review: In a market flooded with vampire stories, I was not expecting much from debut author, Dennis Sharpe. I have never been so happy to be wrong. Blood & Spirits, the first book in The Coming Storm series, is as gritty as it is captivating. I am also pleasantly surprised at how well a man portrays a realistic woman\u2019s point of view. Very few can obtain such insight into the opposite sex. I know that I have NO idea what guys are thinking, just ask my husband. Anything I found lacking or obtuse will most certainly be touched upon in the next two books. That is part of the reason this book catches my attention: we learn along with V and her companions in a first-person perspective. Veronica \u201cV\u201d Fischer is a madam in a brothel house in Middle America. If you don\u2019t know what a \u201cmadam\u201d is, then this book might be a little too risqu\u00e9 for you. Just remember, I warned you. She has employees, a go-to man, and spirits that she relies on to take care of day to day affairs. She is also a vampire. Found by her sire, Jules, at a young age, V has always used her \u201cassets\u201d to her advantage. She is smart, and runs her house like the business it is. Now there is someone out there trying to tear down all that V has built up, one brick at a time. Rachel, an eight year old ghost that V has grown attached to, goes missing. \u201cPatrons\u201d of her establishment are telling police that they are being blackmailed by her. Someone keeps trying to blow up her brothel house. Can\u2019t she catch a break here? The more that happens, the more we see V lose her cool fa\u00e7ade. Anyone, vampire or human, can only take so much in so little time. I do so appreciate a character that responses in a more realistic way. V is then forced to admit she is in over her head and calls on her sire for help. Jules is an old vampire. He is V\u2019s \u201cfather figure\u201d and has long ago left her to fend for herself. Jules is truly like a dad in this novel. I mean, what adult do you know wants to admit to needing their parents to bail them out of trouble? No one, that\u2019s who. He is strong and invincible in V\u2019s eyes. So surely anything that\u2019s going on here he can fix, right? The love interest here is an unknown vampire named Garrett. He blows into to town just when things are getting out of control and saves V from some \u201cunquiet\u201d spirits that are attacking her. But is his help as altruistic as he wants us to believe? V is certain that whoever is trying to kill her must be one of her own kind, a vampire. So is this sexy new player on the field a good guy or a bad guy? Can V truly resist him either way? Frank, V\u2019s right hand man, is an ex-cop. He relies on his old contacts on the force to investigate things for V. Frank stays with V, not only because she is his boss, but also his friend. His ex-partner, David Lewis, refuses to understand why he would leave the force and go work for someone they both used to think of as a \u201cbad guy.\u201d There is a lot of sexual tension between the two that is never fully addressed. I enjoy the by-play though. Dave helps Frank track whoever is causing problems for V and her girls, even though he would rather see V behind bars instead. The loyalty Dave shows toward Frank is commendable, and the fact that he refuses to give up on his old partner is comforting. I believe everyone should have someone looking out for their best interests, whether you want them to or not. Dave\u2019s feelings are evident in everything he does. Will these two work it out? Will they get together, or not? Will the difficulties V is having be the final straw that breaks this long time friendship? Or will it turn into the catalyst that changes their relationship forever? One of my favorite characters to hate in this story is Paco, the zombie. Nasty looking: inside and out. The maggots hinted at below his skin are a perfect metaphor for the rot in his soul. He is a magic user and holds sway over the spirits around him. Being one of the less desirables of the little town of Pekin, few choose to go to Paco for assistance. Unfortunately, V is left with little choice if she is going to find out what is going on in the spirit world. How can she help those ghosts that mean so much to her without a guide? Will he help her or use her toward his own advantage? I mean, what\u2019s in it for him? Will she ever get the smell of him out of her car? V is a wonderful anti-hero; full of vulnerability and cunning, street smarts mixed in with naivet\u00e9. I have grown to adore her and her lackadaisical attitude shining in at the oddest of moments. A diamond in the ruff, Blood & Spirits exceeds many of my expectations from a self-published work. I will be looking forward to future Dennis Sharpe books. Notable Scene: I can see the shadows have fled, but I\u2019m not alone. There he is, standing in the center of the room outlined in red from the light of the emergency exit signs. How did he get here so fast? Why didn\u2019t I sense his presence? How did he even know I was in trouble? Nothing is making any sense. I stare, trying to wrap my mind around what I\u2019m seeing, and then I gasp audibly, drawing attention to myself. His head snaps in my direction, and he takes a defensive posture. His head cocks slightly to the side and I know his face, and the motion of what he\u2019s doing. I\u2019ve been through it before, he\u2019s reading me. \u201cJules?\u201d So small, my voice is hardly more than a squeak. \u201cWho?\u201d The Coming Storm Trilogy: 1. Blood & Spirits 2. Distant Thunder FTC Advisory: The author provided me with a copy of Blood & Spirits. No goody bags, sponsorships, \u201cmaterial connections,\u201d or bribes were exchanged for my review. I only get paid in hugs and kisses from my little boys. ...more I can't stand vampires. I do not know how I got dragged into reading this book. But it doesn't matter, I am flucking glad I did as Sharpe paints a hilarious, dark world that defies stereotype. Who doesn't like Brothels? Or Veronica, for that matter? I have a nasty habit of faling in love with female characters and Veronica, that headstrong shedevil, is another notch on the imaginary bedpost for me. It's kind of strange when you think about it that a man wrote this, so my love may be skewed but w I can't stand vampires. I do not know how I got dragged into reading this book. But it doesn't matter, I am flucking glad I did as Sharpe paints a hilarious, dark world that defies stereotype. Who doesn't like Brothels? Or Veronica, for that matter? I have a nasty habit of faling in love with female characters and Veronica, that headstrong shedevil, is another notch on the imaginary bedpost for me. It's kind of strange when you think about it that a man wrote this, so my love may be skewed but whatever. Vamps be damned, this was fast-paced, fun ride and Sharpe has given me new respect and admiration for self-published authors. I hope my own books end up being as well-received and well-writen as his. Twilight fans need not apply. ...more The Goods: The characters, especially Veronica, were explosive. They just jump off the page and attack you and pretty much leave you wanting more of their usual cynical, snide, small town hickery that you've come to love. I also thought that the plot was well worked out. I mean it's part detective book, part urban fantasy and all curves. Interesting twist on vampires and ghosts and zombies really. Although I'd like to think less about the zombies, and the sewers for that matter. The farther away The Goods: The characters, especially Veronica, were explosive. They just jump off the page and attack you and pretty much leave you wanting more of their usual cynical, snide, small town hickery that you've come to love. I also thought that the plot was well worked out. I mean it's part detective book, part urban fantasy and all curves. Interesting twist on vampires and ghosts and zombies really. Although I'd like to think less about the zombies, and the sewers for that matter. The farther away from a sewer I can be after this book, the better. Sharpe / Witless Lackey has a gift. He's very gifted in writing the most disturbing sex scene you'll ever read. He'll also make your skin crawl, and not in a good way. http://rhiannonpaille.blogspot.com ...more Blood and Spirits turned out to be a pleasant surprise. I expected it to be entertaining, as I do any book I read, but I didn\u2019t necessarily expect it to blow me away. But it totally did! I love it when I get more than I expected instead of less! There are so many great things about this book that I\u2019m having trouble deciding where to start. So I\u2019ll start at the beginning. The cover of this book is totally bad ass. I absolutely love it. I know that we aren\u2019t supposed to judge a book by its cover, Blood and Spirits turned out to be a pleasant surprise. I expected it to be entertaining, as I do any book I read, but I didn\u2019t necessarily expect it to blow me away. But it totally did! I love it when I get more than I expected instead of less! There are so many great things about this book that I\u2019m having trouble deciding where to start. So I\u2019ll start at the beginning. The cover of this book is totally bad ass. I absolutely love it. I know that we aren\u2019t supposed to judge a book by its cover, but whom are we kidding really? We both know we are more likely to read a book with a cool cover than a book without one. Veronica is a vampire Madam. As in prostitutes. As in she runs a brothel. And she\u2019s a vampire. She sounds SMOKING hot, as I think vampires should. Apparently, she has some enemies and such, so this book focuses on one of those enemies and the nastiness they are trying to get away with. Blood and Spirits isn\u2019t a one-dimensional book, by any means. It has multiple layers, and different concepts throughout the book and really keeps you guessing as to what is going to come next. There are multiple conflicts, peaks, and resolutions so the story continues through several well set scenarios. I like how the author sets everything up for explanation and back story throughout the book. There is a variety of paranormal elements and species to give the story a more complex world in which Veronica and friends reside. There is one thing with which I had a small problem. At one point Veronica is telling the story of what has happened to cause her to feel the need to involve Julius, her maker. She is telling it to him so that he can \u201csee\u201d her memories. This goes on for quite a while so at some point, I realized that I forgot what going on and the role Julius was playing. I asked myself, \u201cWhy did she go pick him up? Where is he now?\u201d At that point, I remembered what was going on, but for a minute, I was confused. I\u2019m not going to lie, at first, I was surprised that this book was written by a man. I had actually forgotten who wrote it while I was reading it, as that\u2019s not necessarily something I think about. For whatever reason, in my head, I had assumed Blood and Spirits was written by a woman. When I realized Dennis Sharpe wrote it, who, I am under the impression, is NOT a woman, I was surprised until I started to think more about it. He pulled off something many men cannot. He wrote a book from a female\u2019s perspective and didn\u2019t completely screw it up. His action scenes were well thought out and planned. Veronica kicks ass all over the place and she looks good doing it. I\u2019m pretty sure it\u2019s a fantasy for some men to see a super hot chick kicking ass. Regardless of the author\u2019s sex, this was a great book. There was action, emotion, mystery, multiple paranormal and horror-esq elements that all came together to create a wonderful book that I will recommend to anyone who likes female Vampires who can kick the crap out of people both physically AND mentally! I highly recommend this book to all vampire lovers out there. ...more What do you get when you mix a vampire madam, wicked spirits, and a zombie with a lust for power? Blood & Spirits. Veronica, better known as V to those closest to her, is a vampire, but not your ordinary vampire. This chick is tough as nails with a heart of gold for those she holds near and dear. Did I mention she runs a brothel? The storyline is through V's POV. It spins a tale of a woman who is meeting with her vampire maker after years of being apart from him. She's dreading the reconnect What do you get when you mix a vampire madam, wicked spirits, and a zombie with a lust for power? Blood & Spirits. Veronica, better known as V to those closest to her, is a vampire, but not your ordinary vampire. This chick is tough as nails with a heart of gold for those she holds near and dear. Did I mention she runs a brothel? The storyline is through V's POV. It spins a tale of a woman who is meeting with her vampire maker after years of being apart from him. She's dreading the reconnection but only because she has to reach out to him for help. V's a strong female character, who is self-reliant. Unfortunately, a series of events sends her life spinning out of control, and those she loves become endangered and for a few, worse things happen. The vampire world doesn\u2019t usually mix with the spirit world, but V befriends a spirit by the name of Lucy. This spirit eventually seeks V out to care for a younger spirit, Rachel, who V comes to adore and think of as her own child. When unknown forces kidnap Rachel, V does everything in her power to find her, but \u2018unquiet\u2019 spirits refuse to make things easy. V must seek the help of those she would rather not count on, including a zombie who is not only perverse, but has a strange fetish with the local sewage drains. Unfortunately, V cannot count on her own kind, as they seem to despise her. The vampire lineage basis for this story is pure bloods. Most vampires are family and they frown upon making another who is not family. The local vamp clan treats V like the plague and only tolerates her out of loyalty to her maker. Luckily, V has a loyal staff that is not only her self-proclaimed family; they do whatever they can to help her through any crisis. She also meets another of her kind who isn\u2019t like the local clan. In fact, sparks begin to fly. Of course, nothing is ever what it seems. This new vampire has secrets of his own. Will his presence in town help or hinder V? Well, you\u2019ll have to read the story to find out for yourself. I can honestly say I enjoyed Blood & Spirits. Once I began reading this unique story, it became hard to put it down. Every free moment I found, my eyes were back on this book until I finished it. It is the first book in a series and I can\u2019t wait to get my hands on the next one. The romantic elements in this book do not go overboard. The author keeps it light. I\u2019m all for the romance, so I hope the author will delve a little more in this direction with the next book. If you enjoy vampire literature, be sure to check out Blood & Spirits. ...more Basic review: This is not the great american novel. People will not be celebrating how it made humanity better as a whole. What it is is a good ride into the world of a middle-american madam with some peculiar habits and some strange friends...and stranger enemies. Good book, will read it again! Looking forward to the next one in the series! scroll down for larger review: --------------------------------------------- Do your vampires sparkle? Mine don't. Blood & Spirits does not contain anyt Basic review: This is not the great american novel. People will not be celebrating how it made humanity better as a whole. What it is is a good ride into the world of a middle-american madam with some peculiar habits and some strange friends...and stranger enemies. Good book, will read it again! Looking forward to the next one in the series! scroll down for larger review: --------------------------------------------- Do your vampires sparkle? Mine don't. Blood & Spirits does not contain anything that sparkles. The world around the heroine is very much like real life in that the people around you are not able to be painted black and white, and the situations that occur don't have solutions immediately apparent to the characters involved. I feel that Dennis has written his characters to be as human as they can be given the circumstances. In his world there are no paladins who fight the good fight for the sake of right. People do what they have to to survive, and most of the time that means being the biggest badass, or at least working for him. I like the way love is addressed, but not obsessive. He built a woman who is looking to protect what she has and is willing to do anything (oh yeah, ANYTHING) to do what she thinks is right, even if its not. Blood & Spirits is enough emotion to make you like her, enough violence to make you love her, and enough shock to make you NEVER wish you were her.. ...more A breath of fresh air... That's what I thought when I finished the last sentence of this book. Blood & Spirits had all the great elements of strange; vampires, ghosts, spirits, zombies, but all of them weren't completely typical, which I loved. Add in some magic, and I'm hooked for life. The story line was great; I wanted to keep reading to see what the next twist was going to be. It was funny, scary, and emotional. The characters were fantastic. V is great. She's loyal, she's caring, and she A breath of fresh air... That's what I thought when I finished the last sentence of this book. Blood & Spirits had all the great elements of strange; vampires, ghosts, spirits, zombies, but all of them weren't completely typical, which I loved. Add in some magic, and I'm hooked for life. The story line was great; I wanted to keep reading to see what the next twist was going to be. It was funny, scary, and emotional. The characters were fantastic. V is great. She's loyal, she's caring, and she's a vengeful bitch. I've seen a few comments about the sex scene, so I'll throw my two cents in... Disturbing. That's the only word I can think of. Though not 'disturbing' as in, \"what the hell was he thinking when he wrote this\"; 'disturbing' as in I could feel how completely repulsed V was and from that moment on, I got what she was feeling toward him. I thought the scene fit and it was a geat way to show those emotions. I can't wait to see what's in store for V and company in the next book of 'The Coming Storm' series. I am definitely giving this book 5 stars. ...more Blood and Spirits Blood and Spirits is about vampire who runs a house of 12 girls she takes care of, each who have their own individual powers and abilites. She also watches over a little girl who was mudered, is now a ghost and has disappeared. She has to deal with her hunger, a determination to find the little girl, and one heck of a mystery. This book reads like a detective novel, and I quite enjoyed it. It's fast paced, with the heroine getting herself into one hairy situation after another. I Blood and Spirits Blood and Spirits is about vampire who runs a house of 12 girls she takes care of, each who have their own individual powers and abilites. She also watches over a little girl who was mudered, is now a ghost and has disappeared. She has to deal with her hunger, a determination to find the little girl, and one heck of a mystery. This book reads like a detective novel, and I quite enjoyed it. It's fast paced, with the heroine getting herself into one hairy situation after another. I gave it five stars. ...more There is currently a barrage of books dealing with the supernatural and paranormal and very few of them are really worth the read. Blood & Spirits was a pleasant surprise that rose out of the drivel of most books in its genre and left me wanting more! I was actually upset when I finished the story that the second book was not yet out, but I have it on good authority it will be out before year end! Blood & Spirits delicately blends together so many things that can easily become cliche and There is currently a barrage of books dealing with the supernatural and paranormal and very few of them are really worth the read. Blood & Spirits was a pleasant surprise that rose out of the drivel of most books in its genre and left me wanting more! I was actually upset when I finished the story that the second book was not yet out, but I have it on good authority it will be out before year end! Blood & Spirits delicately blends together so many things that can easily become cliche and overdone in a way that makes them fresh, new, exciting, and interesting. It manages to contain zombies, vampires, and ghosts interacting with humans...man and woman--gay and straight...and makes the story exciting and fantastical yet still believable. The believable comes from the author's careful crafting of the characters. They all feel like real people with real problems...even if there particular problems have an element the reader hopefully will never encounter specifically, but ever reader will still on some level relate. While the author is a straight male, he portrays both women and gays more believable than any other author I have ever read. The most refreshing part of his portrayal of all his characters is that they are simply people first and their gender, sexual orientation, and even whether they are alive or undead is secondary. You get to really know the characters so that you care or hate each of them because you feel like you really get to know them. Much of this is accomplished by the author's exceptional mastery of realistic dialogue even in the most abnormal of situations. I recommend this book to anyone who loves all things supernatural and paranormal but I don't think those are the only readers that will enjoy this book. Women in general will appreciate how he portrays real women and their real thoughts and attitudes and actions. Gay readers will appreciate how the gay characters are presented as simply interesting and likable characters who happen to be gay. The author in no way uses the fact that they are gay to portray a stereotype or use their sexual orientation as some gimmick to draw in homosexual readers or to create a cliche character. All of his characters are just real people that are all different and all, at least in ways, people we are or people we know and love...or sometimes hate. It amazes me how he is able to avoid using cliches and stereotypes in his characters yet creates characters you feel you know more and more deeply as the book progresses. Many people use the review section in the traditional way and give you a synopsis of the story and more specifics about the characters and actions, but I personally think this book is best read knowing as little as possible and just letting the author unveil the story to you from beginning to end. All you need to know other than what I have already pointed out is that the main character, V, is an amazing, complex, strong woman that you will love despite her moral flaws and the characters that surround her are equally complex and interesting. You should also know the book is nothing like you have ever read before...and that is a very good thing that will leave you eagerly waiting for the rest of the trilogy. BRAVO, Dennis Sharpe, for your first novel. Many are waiting anxiously to see what adventures you bring to us next! ...more I'm going to work damn hard to have no spoilers here :). I enjoyed this book. It is overall a strong start to what looks to be a very interesting series. It took me a couple chapters to really get into the book, but then when the ball got rolling it REALLY moves fast. I am enjoying the world so far, dark urban fantasy with a rich paranormal mythos that really feels fresh. Not a lot of romance, but I'm more than ok with that. I'm much more in it for the paranormal. And as a horror fan the gore als I'm going to work damn hard to have no spoilers here :). I enjoyed this book. It is overall a strong start to what looks to be a very interesting series. It took me a couple chapters to really get into the book, but then when the ball got rolling it REALLY moves fast. I am enjoying the world so far, dark urban fantasy with a rich paranormal mythos that really feels fresh. Not a lot of romance, but I'm more than ok with that. I'm much more in it for the paranormal. And as a horror fan the gore also fits in nicely, but the more squeamish might find a few parts of the story uncomfortable. The vampires feel dark and real, with emotions and violence and gore, and I loved it. And... IT ENDS. There is definitely more story to read, but there is a conclusion here that is satisfying, and I appreciate that. I'm not the biggest fan of cliffhangers. Veronica is a strong woman and competant madam, but her vulnerability and inexperience shine as she gets put through the ringer again and again. I am excited to watch her grow and hope she can blossom into the strong female lead that is hinted at here. Getting to watch her fail and have to ask for help made her feel realistic and really keeps the story moving, as does seeing the lengths she will go to for the family that has grown up around her. And her relationship with Jules is fabulous. But I have to say, she wasn't my favorite character. I fell in love with Lucy from her first appearance. She doesn't feature prominently in this book, but she is just SUCH an interesting character that I just loved every scene she was in. Her grace and power shine through the words and she plays like a movie in my mind. VERY cool. Garrett... I know others have fallen in love with him, but as a regular paranormal reader, he's just too suspicious for me to love him. He's TOO perfect. Time will tell... Frank is FABULOUS in every sense of the word, and he really shines when he can. I'm not a huge fan of Lewis, but he came off as a bit two dimensional to me. I adore Jules, his strength and harsh reality mixed with his obvious affection for V. Rachel is interesting, but I didn't really get to know her well since she's gone most of the book ;). I love that the house girls have different personalities and I do adore Julie, she really knows where she stands and isn't afraid to do what she has to to keep the life she loves. I could go on and on, but really you should check this out yourself. If you like vampires, ghosts and dark fantasy, and horny zombies don't scare you off, I think you'll find this an engaging read, and it will whet your appetite for more. I know I'm eagerly awaiting book 2. ...more \"Blood & Spirits\" by Dennis Sharpe is the first in The Coming Storm series and was recommended to me by a friend. I used to like True Blood but for some time now I have found the market for Vampire stories oversaturated and did not expect too much from the book. I was pleasantly surprised when from the first few pages the quality of style and content showed a confident and purpose-driven manner of writing. A short prologue introduced the background of the main character with great sensitivity \"Blood & Spirits\" by Dennis Sharpe is the first in The Coming Storm series and was recommended to me by a friend. I used to like True Blood but for some time now I have found the market for Vampire stories oversaturated and did not expect too much from the book. I was pleasantly surprised when from the first few pages the quality of style and content showed a confident and purpose-driven manner of writing. A short prologue introduced the background of the main character with great sensitivity, something which I also often find over-done or over-dramatic. Here it sets the scene in an understated way. Forward to the present the little child is now a grown up Vampire who sells sex so she can feed on the blood of her clients. Veronica Fischer (great name btw) is an odd character with many quirks that is not your usual heroine of a vampire story and I am grateful for that.She has taken an eight year old ghost under her wing who disappears after Veronica's house is set on fire. It becomes transparent that someone out there is targeting her and trying to set her up. Together with some friends, a love interest, who is also a Vampire, and her protector she sets out to get the girls back, fighting a malicious and vile Zombie and his associates. The side characters are just as lively and colourful as Veronica, in that respect the book did remind me of True Blood, the TV series that I loved because the characters were playing with stereotypes but remained rather unique. I loved to hate the Zombie as much as I enjoyed seeing Veronica mess things up here and there and then succeed at other times. The overall picture and the title of the trilogy refers to 'unquiet' activity of minions associated with Veronica's enemies. The story has a lot of action going and is never dull. One of the things I liked most about the book was the skilful dialogue which sounded lifelike but never too simple. Vampire stories aren't for everyone but as a casual visitor to the genre I would recommend this series to anyone who is looking for a good helping of the genre. ...more I was warned that this book would be gritty and only one scene really was (but it's entirely possible that this is because I've been desensitized by violent video games and modern TV or I'm just a heartless person but either way) and I will be honest and say that it unsettled my stomach. The premise of the story is very good. I won't give a summary (that's what the Goodreads product summary is for) but it's an unconventional vampire book with a few ghosts, a legion of demons, a sort-of zombie sor I was warned that this book would be gritty and only one scene really was (but it's entirely possible that this is because I've been desensitized by violent video games and modern TV or I'm just a heartless person but either way) and I will be honest and say that it unsettled my stomach. The premise of the story is very good. I won't give a summary (that's what the Goodreads product summary is for) but it's an unconventional vampire book with a few ghosts, a legion of demons, a sort-of zombie sorcerer thing and a whore house. In that respect, I liked the book a lot. The writing itself was pretty good until about halfway through when the plot started unraveling and suddenly the twists were being told to the reader instead of being shown and/or figured out. Maybe the author rushed it, I don't know, but I was disappointed in the decline of the story and lost a lot of interest after that. I kept going to see how it would end and I have to admit that I was satisfied with the conclusion. It was neither overly sappy nor was it overwhelmingly bleak. It was an appropriate mix of the two (sort of) so on that count, I have no complaints. The world building was fairly solid although I would have liked more background information into vampire society and the ghosts, but since this is just one book in a proposed series, then more will be explained in the future. I liked the characters, particularly Julie and Frank, and grew quite attached to both, so kudos on the characterization. The only real downside was the writing after the halfway point. Maybe the author was losing steam? I don't know, but I was disappointed. However, I have high hopes for the sequel so I'll be sure to check it out. All in all, if you like gritty urban fantasy stories with a no-holds-barred heroine, you'll like this book. ...more Cute story - leaves it open for another book to continue the path of destruction :) The book is about a Vampire - Veronica who runs a brothel. She loves these girls, and looks after them all. She has taught them that they only do what they want to do, and nothing more. These girls are very high class. She comes across this little spirit girl, Rachelle, she's about 8 - and Veronica really grows attach to her spirit - One day Veronica is out and about and everything starts to fall apart. Rachelle Cute story - leaves it open for another book to continue the path of destruction :) The book is about a Vampire - Veronica who runs a brothel. She loves these girls, and looks after them all. She has taught them that they only do what they want to do, and nothing more. These girls are very high class. She comes across this little spirit girl, Rachelle, she's about 8 - and Veronica really grows attach to her spirit - One day Veronica is out and about and everything starts to fall apart. Rachelle is kidnapped, her house burns down, her girls get hurt - she gets attacked by non-quiet spirits (think of pultraguise) everything that could go wrong, does. If it wasn't for Frank (her trusty human PI) and Garrett (A Vampire who shows up to help her with the spirits) her life would have fallen apart. Veronica is not as strong as most heroines in the books you read - but she does keep her head in the game. She gets slammed by things going wrong, she doesn't get a chance to step back and see the big picture. She starts going against her instincts because she can't tell who is right and wrong anymore. The descriptions of the non-quiet spirits and Paco - ewwww - are pretty descriptive. There is a really big gross-out part with Paco in the middle that I probably would have been happier if I hadn't read (Still makes me squirm in my own skin just thinking about it - blach!) And I would have liked to have seen more (view spoiler) [ :) with Garrett and Veronica (hide spoiler) ] ...more Blood and Spirits, has stunned me. Blood and Spirits is the first in Mr. Sharpe's series of \"dark, urban\" vampire stories. We are introduced the Veronica Fischer, she is a vampire, who runs a gentleman's club, and is in touch with ghosts. The twists and turns make this a completely different kind of vampire story. I found it quite interesting that Dennis was able to tell the story so well through Veronica's voice. She is witty, sarcastic, and sensitive to those around her. She calls humans, vampi Blood and Spirits, has stunned me. Blood and Spirits is the first in Mr. Sharpe's series of \"dark, urban\" vampire stories. We are introduced the Veronica Fischer, she is a vampire, who runs a gentleman's club, and is in touch with ghosts. The twists and turns make this a completely different kind of vampire story. I found it quite interesting that Dennis was able to tell the story so well through Veronica's voice. She is witty, sarcastic, and sensitive to those around her. She calls humans, vampires and spirits, her confidants and friends. The supporting characters are very well defined and keep you interested. The world around Veronica is going crazy, some of her ladies are missing, the spirit child that lives with her has disappeared, she keep getting cryptic visits from another spirit, her maker is in town, and someone has started a fire at one of her houses. That is just a few of the wild things happening with her. Tune in turn off the TV and enjoy this great story. There is a bit of everything, love, loss, loathing, wonderful fighting, a great bit of dark humor. I found the book extremely interesting and think the author kept his focus and told the story very well. And the book leaves you breathless wondering what is coming next. So, be warned a bit of a cliffhanger. If you like paranormal suspense, jump on this one quick! I look forward to the next installment. ...more It's rare when two of the things you've wished for come together in one book. Not only am I thrilled that Dennis Sharpe has written a book of fiction but that he has written one that is so truly unique for this, my favorite, genre. I have read all three of his poetry books and fell in love with his arresting style and have so hoped he would venture into fiction. Blood & Spirits possesses the same lyrical phrasing as his previous work but this time we are taken on a dark journey with Veronica It's rare when two of the things you've wished for come together in one book. Not only am I thrilled that Dennis Sharpe has written a book of fiction but that he has written one that is so truly unique for this, my favorite, genre. I have read all three of his poetry books and fell in love with his arresting style and have so hoped he would venture into fiction. Blood & Spirits possesses the same lyrical phrasing as his previous work but this time we are taken on a dark journey with Veronica Fischer. I must say that I love Veronica Fischer! Kudos to Mr. Sharpe for breathing life into such an amazingly strong, funny, independent, and still very feminine female character. This book is a must read for anyone who has been a little jaded or turned off by the stereotypical vampire tale and would love to experience a fresh and intelligent approach to the genre. You think you know where it's going but you are SO WRONG! Blood & Spirits has really given me a new appreciation for character development as each person we encounter is a rich tapestry of the world and circumstances they have endured. You will laugh, cringe, and perhaps even shed a tear but more importantly you will be captivated by Veronica, Sunny, and Paco and, like me, salivating for the next book in the series! I HIGHLY recommend this book!! ...more Dennis Sharpe\u2019s first novel, Blood and Spirits, completely wowed me. Blood and Spirits is the first book in the coming series of \u201cdark, urban\u201d vampire stories and promises a wild unfolding storm. In this book we are introduced to Veronica Fischer\u2014a madam, a vampire, and a friend of spirits, who has to endure the sick, disturbing, and disgusting whims of a flesh-rotting, self-aware zombie. Sharpe's story takes some unexpected turns. Some will make you gasp, some will make you laugh, and some may ma Dennis Sharpe\u2019s first novel, Blood and Spirits, completely wowed me. Blood and Spirits is the first book in the coming series of \u201cdark, urban\u201d vampire stories and promises a wild unfolding storm. In this book we are introduced to Veronica Fischer\u2014a madam, a vampire, and a friend of spirits, who has to endure the sick, disturbing, and disgusting whims of a flesh-rotting, self-aware zombie. Sharpe's story takes some unexpected turns. Some will make you gasp, some will make you laugh, and some may make you cry, but none will disappoint. Veronica tells most of the story in first person in her hometown of Pekin. Her voice cuts with sarcasm and you can feel her frustration, despair, fear, and elation right along with her. She has brought together a team of vampires, spirits, and \u201cbreathers\u201d that she both relies on and loves. And, through her story, I grew to love them too\u2014especially the dark humored Frank and the sweet and na\u00efve Julie. This book has everything packed into it: dark humor, sarcasm, fear, love, loss, disgust that will make you need a shower, and dizzying fight scenes, but Sharpe doesn\u2019t lose focus, the characters stay true, and when this story is over, you\u2019re left wondering: What is this storm bringing on Pekin? ...more I picked this book up for the author, despite the fact that it was listed as horror. The tags said it was dark urban fantasy, and I'm just starting to get into that recently. I've found that after a while it becomes difficult to find books in the genre that are original in any way, but I thought the horror angle might make for a good twist. I expected it to be average at best, even though I like other works by the author, but it wasn't. The world, the characters, the creatures, and even the take I picked this book up for the author, despite the fact that it was listed as horror. The tags said it was dark urban fantasy, and I'm just starting to get into that recently. I've found that after a while it becomes difficult to find books in the genre that are original in any way, but I thought the horror angle might make for a good twist. I expected it to be average at best, even though I like other works by the author, but it wasn't. The world, the characters, the creatures, and even the take on vampires is so refreshingly different that I was drawn in and led on a journey that was as fast paced as it was enthralling. I don't want to give spoilers, so I'll just say that the main character is tough but still feminine, the supporting characters are real and have a depth to them, and the setting is vivid. I did find the Garrett character a little too good to be true, but this is just book one of the series, so I'll have to see where he goes from here. I'd definitely recommend this book to anyone. I'm looking forward to seeing what book two has in store. ...more The coming storm trilogy, in book one, looks to be the perfect storm. It has vampires, spirits of all varieties, emotion, depth, and richly unique visual elements. Blood & Spirits takes us on a whirlwind ride through Veronica, or \u201cV\u2019s\u201d, life as a small town, Middle American madam who happens to be a \u201cBloodsucker\u201d. The Vampire/Paranormal genre is approached from a direction I\u2019ve not seen a lot of in the more modern urban fantasy releases. The flavor was as refreshing, as the characters were viv The coming storm trilogy, in book one, looks to be the perfect storm. It has vampires, spirits of all varieties, emotion, depth, and richly unique visual elements. Blood & Spirits takes us on a whirlwind ride through Veronica, or \u201cV\u2019s\u201d, life as a small town, Middle American madam who happens to be a \u201cBloodsucker\u201d. The Vampire/Paranormal genre is approached from a direction I\u2019ve not seen a lot of in the more modern urban fantasy releases. The flavor was as refreshing, as the characters were vivid. The pace was fast, and the story engrossing. All in all I must say that I\u2019m left with a serious desire to read the next book in this series if only to know where the lives of these characters can possibly go next. ...more I'm always hesitant to review vampire novels. The genre seems done to death. But Blood and Spirits by Dennis Sharpe is a worthy entry in the field. No sparkly vampires here. The blood suckers are true creatures of the night, drifting through a moral swamp of prostitution and the restless undead. A taut mystery lies at the core of the story, as the vampire heroine, Veronica, struggles to understand the net that's tightening around her, and the reader comes along for the ride. The book is soaked in I'm always hesitant to review vampire novels. The genre seems done to death. But Blood and Spirits by Dennis Sharpe is a worthy entry in the field. No sparkly vampires here. The blood suckers are true creatures of the night, drifting through a moral swamp of prostitution and the restless undead. A taut mystery lies at the core of the story, as the vampire heroine, Veronica, struggles to understand the net that's tightening around her, and the reader comes along for the ride. The book is soaked in threat. The author, Dennis Sharpe, has an original voice and a seamless writing style. If you like your vampires on the darker side, you'll probably enjoy Blood and Spirits. ...more So this book kinda had a True Blood kind of flavor, but I liked the characters better. Veronica was like Sookie meets Pam, but a lot more like it was written by Patricia Briggs and Jim Butcher. It had some of the best of a lot of works out there with a completely new take on Vampires. It didn't have a lot of whiny characters, and the world was really dark and kind of awesome. I loved it. I want more Frank! I loved Veronica, I wanted so badly to help Rachel and Lucy, and I want to go out for drinks with Frank. This book was written by a man, but don't let that fool you. Veronica's story is uniquely feminine. Book two needs to be on my Kindle now. So I must say that this normally isn't my genre but I loved this book!!! It was fast paced but not too fast where you get confused and want to give up all together, which I loved. I can't wait for book 2 and can't wait to see the film!!! Congrats Dennis!! I really enjoyed this book and I can't wait to read more from Mr. Sharpe. (full review to be posted at http://thebooknympho.blogspot.com ) later today. The Good: The heroine. Oh, how I love a kick-butt heroine. One that's in charge of her own life, that doesn't play the victim or spends page after page whining about her circumstances and how she's powerless to change them. And believe me, V would have every reason to whine or play victim, but she doesn't. She puts on a killer outfit, makes sure someone can manage her business while she's gone, and goes out and tries to figure things out on her own. Well, with the help of her ex-cop-turned-right- The Good: The heroine. Oh, how I love a kick-butt heroine. One that's in charge of her own life, that doesn't play the victim or spends page after page whining about her circumstances and how she's powerless to change them. And believe me, V would have every reason to whine or play victim, but she doesn't. She puts on a killer outfit, makes sure someone can manage her business while she's gone, and goes out and tries to figure things out on her own. Well, with the help of her ex-cop-turned-right-hand-man, Frank. Whom I love, by the way. I also like the fact that, despite her trying to pull herself up by her bootstraps and take charge of her circumstances, she's never really able to do so. She just keeps spiraling further into the rabbit hole. It makes for good suspense, and to be honest, it's pretty realistic. Sometimes no matter how hard we try to take control of things, life slaps us across the face and reminds us who's boss. The characters are multifaceted. V is a redheaded kick-butt orphan vampire heroine who runs a brothel. Frank, her right hand man, is a witty ex-cop who likes men. The antagonist is a friggen zombie named Paco. So I guess you see my point - nothing but originality here. Even the secondary characters jump right off the page. Garrett, V's love interest. He's yummy, mysterious and knows how to fight evil spirits. Can we clone him? :) The writing was smart and engaging, with just enough sass thrown in to inject levity where the story needed it. I also never felt like the story dragged. Well done, Mr. Sharpe. The Bad: There's hardly anything bad at all to say about this book, but there is one scene in particular that I felt was a bit gratuitous, and it has to do with Paco collecting a 'payment' from V for his help. I'm by no means uptight and don't get grossed out easily, but writing a play by play of that scene was overkill in my opinion. Or maybe off-putting is a better way to put it. The idea of it was gross enough that the writer could have insinuated what happened or faded to black, etc. We didn't need every. nasty. detail. And by nasty, I mean n-a-s-t-y, and NOT in a kinky kind of way. It almost felt like it was done for shock value. And then when V had sex with Garrett, a scene where we would actually care to know the details, it gets skimmed over. I demand a re-write! ;) The Ugly: Nothing to say in this category. In short, this gritty supernatural thriller will keep you glued to the pages and clambering for Book Two. So when will Book Two be ready, Mr. Sharpe? :) Favorite Quote: \"Is one easy night without a huge dry-cleaning bill too much to ask for these days?\" This made me chuckle. Poor V was always getting her clothes torn and nasty! ...more<---C>Dennis Sharpe</---C>", "Title": "Blood & Spirits"},
