{"Comments": "There are several reasons why I think this book is important, and it has a lot to do with the state of our schools. You've probably heard that public education in America is becoming more of a shambles each decade. I work at a college and often feel like I'm on the front lines of this battle. While we have a number of good students, we also have a fair number 18- and 19-year-olds who simply aren't prepared for higher education and who,<---M> if the economy weren't so degree-oriented</---M>, probably wouldn't There are several reasons why I think this book is important, and it has a lot to do with the state of our schools. You've probably heard that public education in America is becoming more of a shambles each decade. I work at a college and often feel like I'm on the front lines of this battle. While we have a number of good students, we also have a fair number 18- and 19-year-olds who simply aren't prepared for higher education and who, if the economy weren't so degree-oriented, probably wouldn't choose to go to college at all. A number of factors have been blamed for the decline of American schools, but one of the biggest culprits in my opinion is the overemphasis on standardized testing, especially as codified by the dreadful No Child Left Behind Act. Both students and teachers have complained that high schools place so much emphasis on memorizing facts for the annual tests that it leaves little room for critical thinking, or interesting stories of history and literature, or anything else that makes learning fun and inspiring. I think this is a travesty, and it's not just the students who are being cheated \u2014 it is all of society, because without an educated citizenry we are lost. We. Are. Lost. Every time I see the title of McCullough's book, <+++>1776</+++> , it reminds me of this issue because of an incident in a colleague's classroom. An English professor was making a point about how people today rely so much on their smartphones and the Internet that no one bothers to remember anything anymore because they assume they can just Google it. The professor pointed out that this lack of internal knowledge can hinder understanding and complex thinking. As an example he asked his students when America was founded.<---F> Dead silence</---F>. There were about 30 students in the class, and none of them knew. The professor said, \"Seriously? You don't know when our country was founded?\" After a few more moments of silence a student meekly raised his hand and said, \"If we didn't have to memorize it for the test, we probably don't know it.\" Big sigh. OK, boys and girls, America was founded on July 4, <+++>1776</+++>, when the Declaration of Independence was approved by the Continental Congress. This event happened in the midst of the American Revolutionary War, which is the focus of McCullough's book. I wanted to read 1776 for several reasons. First, I had loved McCullough's biography on President Harry Truman and was eager to read more of his books. Second, it has been almost 20 years since I was in an American history class, and I wanted to revisit the details of how my country was founded. The stories, myths and legends about each nation are passed through the generations and become part of someone's culture and identity. I don't think these stories should be forgotten. The book focuses on battles with the British between 1775 and 1777. It opens with a quote from a letter written by General <---C>George Washington</---C> in January 1776: \"The reflection upon my situation and that of this army produces many an uneasy hour when all around me are wrapped in sleep. Few people know the predicament we are in.\" Reading this book reminded me of how fragile America's independence was. Few of the \"rebels\" had military experience. Weapons and gun powder were in short supply. Because the colonial men had volunteered to fight, some resisted following military orders and didn't understand army discipline. Plus, the Brits controlled the sea. But for a few lucky turns of fate, the British might have won the war. McCullough concluded the book with this summation: \"Especially for those who had been with Washington and who knew what a close call it was at the beginning \u2014 how often circumstance, storms, contrary winds, the oddities or strengths of individual character had made the difference \u2014 the outcome seemed little short of a miracle.\" My favorite stories in the book were of the fortification of Dorchester Heights during the Siege of Boston, the Battle of Long Island and how the colonialists managed to retreat the entire Army in one night, and Washington's crossing of the Delaware. McCullough weaves a pleasant narrative and makes long-ago events seem very real. I liked his inclusion of quotes from letters, and the details of each military strategy, including how the weather was that day. And his description of Washington made me want to read a good biography about him. I listened to this on audio CD, and McCullough is an excellent narrator. I highly recommend it to fans of history. Hooray for lifelong learning! ...more This is an interesting book that describes in personal detail the battles of the early revolution. We see George and company in Boston, New York City, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. McCullough paints portraits of the military leaders of those campaigns, Howe primarily, and Clinton for the Brits, Greene, Knox, GW and a handful of others for the Yanks. He shows us some of GW\u2019s correspondence and we learn of his disaffection for New Englanders. The troops were a rag tag bunch and George was constantl This is an interesting book that describes in personal detail the battles of the early revolution. We see George and company in Boston, New York City, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. McCullough paints portraits of the military leaders of those campaigns, Howe primarily, and Clinton for the Brits, Greene, Knox, GW and a handful of others for the Yanks. He shows us some of GW\u2019s correspondence and we learn of his disaffection for New Englanders. The troops were a rag tag bunch and George was constantly strained to keep them from running away, serving out their enlistments and going home, dying of various diseases. I did not have much of a sense of how much Tory sympathy there was until reading this. If Edward R. Murrow was still about I suppose it would have made a pretty fair episode of \u201cYou are There.\u201d It was an entertaining as well as informative read. ...more In 1776 <---A>David McCullough</---A> captures the importance of that year's quintessential struggle for our country. By focusing on this single year, as opposed to the entire war, McCullough is able to dissect more minutely the individual battles, turning points, specific leaders, and the result is one of the most humanistic depictions of George Washington I've ever read. Here he becomes more than mythic god of the American past, but rather a living, breathing, flawed man. Telescoping in on actions like The In 1776 David McCullough captures the importance of that year's quintessential struggle for our country. By focusing on this single year, as opposed to the entire war, McCullough is able to dissect more minutely the individual battles, turning points, specific leaders, and the result is one of the most humanistic depictions of George Washington I've ever read. Here he becomes more than mythic god of the American past, but rather a living, breathing, flawed man. Telescoping in on actions like The Battle of Long Island, oft overlooked in American Revolution text with a broader view, gives the reader a chance to appreciate the ebb and flow of the war, as the retreating Patriots fled the rushing sweep of the oncoming British force and turned what might have been their ultimate defeat into an amazing escape during the almost magical midnight evacuation of New York. Conjuring up such exciting scenes is McCullough's bread and butter. While the American Revolution was not fought entirely on moralistic principles about freedom (many a \"founding father\" had a financial stake in this idea of independence), in view of the trials and deprivations suffered by those who fought in 1776, who's valor helped coin the phrase \"The Spirit of '76\", who can deny their pure motives? Even if you can't stomach such patriotism, you can at least admire the courage it must of taken to face such odds. I've read McCullough before. His The Johnstown Flood swept me away. Thus far he has impressed and entertained, so much so that by the end of 1776 I was yearning for 1777. ...more David McCullough has again exceeded all expectations in his latest book, \"1776.\" Like most historical narratives, the reader often knows the ending well in advance. In \"1776\", every reader had to have expected that McCullough would close his book describing Washington's daring yet gallant crossing of the Delaware and the Continental Army's subsequent triumph at Trenton. Nevertheless, as I approached the end of the book I found myself anxiously awaiting that moment ... I literally read-on with ba David McCullough has again exceeded all expectations in his latest book, \"1776.\" Like most historical narratives, the reader often knows the ending well in advance. In \"1776\", every reader had to have expected that McCullough would close his book describing Washington's daring yet gallant crossing of the Delaware and the Continental Army's subsequent triumph at Trenton. Nevertheless, as I approached the end of the book I found myself anxiously awaiting that moment ... I literally read-on with bated breath. David McCullough does a masterful job of describing with ease the events as they unfolded chronologically. Though as he does so, he more importantly provides acute analysis into the psyches of the main players. As much as this book was a narrative about the Continental Army from Bunker Hill, to Dorchester Heights, to Long Island and the Battle of Brooklyn, down through New Jersey and ulitmately victory at Trenton, the book could have as easily been a biography of sorts about His Excellency , George Washington. McCullough's portrait of Washington is not unlike others that have been popularly written. Expectedly, the book portrays our first president as a man of faith and stellar, quasi-consecrated leadership. At the same time though, McCullough is careful not to deify the General and provides keen insights into Washington's probable feelings of self-doubt and diffidence, especially after the nearly catastrophic and ego-piercing defeats at Brooklyn and Fort Washington. Furthermore, McCullough exposes the fact that those close to Washington, General Charles Lee and Joseph Reed, lost much confidence in the General after the Continental Army's retreat across the Hudson and down through New Jersey. With all of this provided as a backdrop though, a true picture of George Washington - his character, his dominion, his authority - is brought into sharp focus through McCullough's description of the Army's treacherous but euphoric victory over the Hessians at Trenton. I could literally picture Washington's animation and feel his exuberance when in the face of a potential call to retreat, he exclaimed to those under his command, \"It's a fine fox chase, my boys!\" One can only imagine the scene of chaos that filled the streets on that early winter morning; yet it is easy to picture General Washington sitting atop his horse, jubilantly inciting his troops to action. At the same time, because of McCullough's adroit description of the sometimes lackadaisical and even distracted British Commander, William Howe, one can only imagine Howe's consternation when learning of the defeat of the hired Hessian helpers. Having mentioned Commander Howe, I also appreciated McCullough's determination in devoting a large portion of the book to characterizing British personalities and actions. Too few authors of the Revolutionary Period spend enough time measuring what was going through the minds of the British, the \"enemy\" at the time. Considering the fact that many living in the colonies during this period considered themselves loyal subjects of the King, it seems logical that a book describing the events of 1776 would adequately delve into British sentiment regarding the \"rebels'\" declaration of independence and the skirmishes and all-out war that followed. After all, the foot soldiers in the Continental Army were closely related, literally, to loyalists throughout the colonies. In illustrating the overall British ethos, especially that of the King's Army, McCullough repeatedly denotes periods during the war where the Continental Army was and should have been on the cusp of ruin but for the seemingly high-minded haughtiness of the British leaders; most notably the aforementioned Commander Howe. Howe is painted as a somewhat apathetic and listless commander, severely lacking the killer instinct possessed by so many other leaders of the time on both sides. McCullough interestingly notes the stark difference between Commander William Howe and both his brother, Admiral Lord Richard Howe, and General Henry Clinton. Had General Clinton's thinking been adopted, the Continental Army probably never would have reached Dorchester Heights in the dead of night and thus would probably never have made it out of Boston. In \"1776\", David McCullough has closely matched the superiority \"John Adams\" and his numerous other historical works. David McCullough truly is a \"master of the art of narrative history.\" Like both of the late Stephen Ambrose and the late David Halberstam, David McCullough has become, in my mind, a national treasure. ...more McCullough\u2019s \u20181776\u2019 is a book about discovery: the force within oneself, one body of people, to be free without the anxiety of what it means to govern themselves independently. Democracy was what they yearned for. The majority of the American people wanted to unite and unite they did. McCullough discusses the trials and tribulations of the first full year of the American Revolutionary War in the north to northeastern part of the colonies with clear and concise language. He uses many quotes and p McCullough\u2019s \u20181776\u2019 is a book about discovery: the force within oneself, one body of people, to be free without the anxiety of what it means to govern themselves independently. Democracy was what they yearned for. The majority of the American people wanted to unite and unite they did. McCullough discusses the trials and tribulations of the first full year of the American Revolutionary War in the north to northeastern part of the colonies with clear and concise language. He uses many quotes and phrases from a myriad of source material and in a way that puts the reader in the streets of Boston, on the battlefields of Trenton and Princeton and in the heart of the early Patriot; that rag-tag farmer, blacksmith, carpenter and other highly inexperienced soldiers that fought and died for the Glorious Cause . As this book speaks about 1776 in general, it also discusses George Washington, the General of the Continental Army (the name of the American army) and later, founding father and first President of the United States. McCullough isn\u2019t biased, by any means. He shows Washington\u2019s ability to lead an army with his optimism towards the campaign and his uplifting oratory on topics of freedom, but also shows him to be indecisive in matters (as with giving up Fort Washington and Fort Lee, along with not covering the Jamaica Pass in the Battle of Long Island which was a decisive victory for the British) due to his inexperience at leading any army, much less a battalion. At times, it feels like a biography of Washington and that year of his life rather than about the battles and the importance of what they signified, but it was still an interesting and engaging read. I personally hadn\u2019t read up on the \u2018Revolution\u2019 since my early years in school and it was nice to revisit things that I had forgotten and learned a few things as well. ...more I decided to read this book because it is on the best seller list and there are about 350 people who have reserved the book on line at the library. I am STILL baffled as to how many people have read and want to read this book. The book is about the Revolutionary war in the year 1776. It is well written. I feel like I missed a lot of school. I don\u2019t remember anything about the Revolutionary war. I didn\u2019t realize how much was fought in New York City and Long Island. I didn\u2019t realize how long it la I decided to read this book because it is on the best seller list and there are about 350 people who have reserved the book on line at the library. I am STILL baffled as to how many people have read and want to read this book. The book is about the Revolutionary war in the year 1776. It is well written. I feel like I missed a lot of school. I don\u2019t remember anything about the Revolutionary war. I didn\u2019t realize how much was fought in New York City and Long Island. I didn\u2019t realize how long it lasted. I remember some of the names but vaguely and I didn\u2019t know their importance. One of the main issues in this book is disease and how it really devastated a lot of the American troops. Mostly because they were filthy and didn\u2019t clean themselves. The British troops were healthly. They were a well disciplined well established army and navy. They knew how to care for themselves and avoid disease. One of the interesting aspects of the book is the strategy of the leaders. William Howe and George Washington. Their successes and failures. My interpretation is the British were winners. The Americans had small successes here and there. I think the author gave to much credit for the battle at the end in New Jersey. Howe had left and went to NY. The Americans did win the battle but only a portion of the British were there. I did learn a lot reading this book, but I struggled to get through it. It didn\u2019t really excite me or peak my interest. ...more This isn't the book I wanted to read, or was expecting to read, but it was good nonetheless. What I was expecting: 1. A book about the first full year of the American Revolution (this part was accurate). 2. Insight into the causes of the Revolution (absent almost completely). 3. Portrayals of the way the two sides saw each other, and why (somewhat present). 4. Stuff about George Washington and the other founding fathers (there was some stuff on George Washington, mostly in his role as commander in ch This isn't the book I wanted to read, or was expecting to read, but it was good nonetheless. What I was expecting: 1. A book about the first full year of the American Revolution (this part was accurate). 2. Insight into the causes of the Revolution (absent almost completely). 3. Portrayals of the way the two sides saw each other, and why (somewhat present). 4. Stuff about George Washington and the other founding fathers (there was some stuff on George Washington, mostly in his role as commander in chief of the first continental army, but there was almost nothing on his personal life or anything outside his new role). 5. Explanations of battles (this is basically all the book consisted of). 6. Lots about the writing of the Declaration of Independence (there was NONE OF THIS). So you can see I was probably setting myself up for failure, but luckily halfway through I forced myself to adjust my expectations and get over it. I ended up enjoying the book for what it was, and not what I wanted it to be. What this book actually was: 1. A book about the full first year of the Revolution, during which time the US army almost lost the war, but managed through perseverance and some luck to turn things around. 2. Insight into each individual battle of the war during the period of January 1776-January 1777 and how each one set the tone for the war to come. 3. Portrayals of the strategies employed by both sides, and reasonably conclusions for why the did so. 4. A focus on George Washington and his main generals in the war, including Nathanael Greene and Henry Knox, as well as soldiers int he war and other people who McCullough was able to track down primary sources for. The book is told almost exclusively through finding and piecing together different primary sources from the day (letters, journals, proclamations, articles, essays, etc.) It is very much in their own words and there is very little outside analysis on McCullough's part, aside from the decisions he made in putting the whole thing together. 5. Lots and lots of battles, including detailed descriptions of the living conditions of both sides of soldiers, including the pros and cons of the British being so regulated and traditional, and the Americans being so disorganized, inexperienced, but enthusiastic. 6. In large part, this book actually works to de-mythologize and unromanticize everything you learned in elementary school about the Revolution, and focuses on how the first year of the war influenced the rest of it. I would definitely be interested in reading more books by this author, especially his one on John Adams, which I have a feeling is the one I should have been reading in the first place, given what I wanted from this one. Mostly, though, it just made me want to read more books about this time in history, because it made me realize that aside from those common romanticizations most Americans hold about the Revolutionary war, I know almost nothing concrete about it, a situation I really need to rectify as soon as possible. ...more There wasn't a shelf for \"Books I tried to read, and then failed at.\" So this one wound up on the \"Read\" shelf, even though that's a lie - I only suffered through about a 1/3 of it. 1776 bored the living shit out of me. I'm sure this makes me a bad person, moves me out of the running for the next Genius Award, reveals me as an uncultured, unsophisticated reader of comic books and advice columnists, etc etc. Don't care. This book reminded me of a trip I took to Gettysburg when I was in 3rd grade There wasn't a shelf for \"Books I tried to read, and then failed at.\" So this one wound up on the \"Read\" shelf, even though that's a lie - I only suffered through about a 1/3 of it. 1776 bored the living shit out of me. I'm sure this makes me a bad person, moves me out of the running for the next Genius Award, reveals me as an uncultured, unsophisticated reader of comic books and advice columnists, etc etc. Don't care. This book reminded me of a trip I took to Gettysburg when I was in 3rd grade - battlefield after battlefield of mind-numbing boredom. ...more I listened to this on audio-book, although I do have a hard back copy in my library. David McCollough's distinct voice, which makes his speeches so enjoyable, also makes him the perfect candidate to read his own books. His is the recognizable voice from the 90's as the narrator of Ken Burns PBS classic \"The Civil War\". The only McCullough book I've read is his Pulitzer Prize winning biography, John Adams . 1776 is not quite on the level with John Adams, but it's very good, very enlightening, abou I listened to this on audio-book, although I do have a hard back copy in my library. David McCollough's distinct voice, which makes his speeches so enjoyable, also makes him the perfect candidate to read his own books. His is the recognizable voice from the 90's as the narrator of Ken Burns PBS classic \"The Civil War\". The only McCullough book I've read is his Pulitzer Prize winning biography, John Adams . 1776 is not quite on the level with John Adams, but it's very good, very enlightening, about a part of history that most of us just received the highlights of during high school history class. Of course the main highlight of the year was the signing of the Declaration of Independence on July 4th. But this book focuses on the military campaign of George Washington and the Continental Army. For the most part 1776 wasn't a very good year for either. It did see the British Army and it's naval fleet evacuate Boston after Washington, in a brilliant one night manoeuvre, move his army and artillery onto Dorchester Heights, making the British retreat necessary. Washington then moved the army to New York to defend there, but the British Fleet returned, and with superior forces, total naval domination of the harbor and rivers, they routed the Continental's in a series of battles, finally capturing Ft. Washington. What was significant though about this episode was the fact that the British could have ended the war right then if they had pushed their advantage. But in another brilliant night manoeuvre, Washington stole quietly across the river with his army and escaped. Washington moved his army to New Jersey to be in a position to defend the Capitol, Philadelphia. They camped on the west side of the Delaware River while the British occupied the east side which included Trenton and Princeton. This set the stage for the famous night crossing of the Delaware by boat, and the successful attack and taking of Trenton the next morning. They followed up the next day by taking Princeton, probably saving the army and the country from defeat. The war would last another five years before Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown in 1881. The treaty of Paris was signed in 1883 officially bringing peace. A lot happened in those years, but this book focused on 1776 and the events I've mentioned here. Again I'll say that I think my appreciation of the book was enhanced by listening instead of reading. ...more I have read several of David McCullough 's books including John Adams and it is easy to see why he is called \"America's storyteller\". As the title suggests this novel focuses on the pivotal year of 1776. It is the story of both the British and the Americans, the events that took place and the major players in these events. On the British side there is King George III, General William Howe, General Henry Clinton, General Charles Cornwallis, and others. At the time Britain was probably the mightiest I have read several of David McCullough 's books including John Adams and it is easy to see why he is called \"America's storyteller\". As the title suggests this novel focuses on the pivotal year of 1776. It is the story of both the British and the Americans, the events that took place and the major players in these events. On the British side there is King George III, General William Howe, General Henry Clinton, General Charles Cornwallis, and others. At the time Britain was probably the mightiest nation. They had one of the greatest armies and navies. In America there were many who were loyal to the King. As if this was not enough Britain employed Hessian mercenaries. An overwhelming and mighty force. On the American side there was George Washington and the militia of New England. There was a struggle to get other states to send troops. America had no army. The men Washington was to lead were boys, farmers, school teachers, shop keepers. Two of the men who Washington came to depend on the most, Nathaniel Greene and Henry Knox, only military knowledge came from what they read in books. The author puts a human face to the names from history. I sometimes had to pause in amazement that War of Independence survived the year of 1776. The militia only signed on for short enlistments and when these were up they would return to their farms and their families. They had no uniforms, often not even shoes, suffered from lack of food and shelter, and were poorly armed. There were desertions. In the latter half of the year they lost four consecutive major battles and gave up a fort without a fight. Yet Washington, who had never led an army in battle, persevered. I live close to where Washington crossed the Delaware. Every year they hold a reenactment. There are plenty of signs around indicating points of interest from the Revolutionary War. One of these is a place Nathaniel Greene headquartered in Buckingham, PA. I actually lived in Buckingham at one time and remember this historical site. I may even have heard that it was here that plans were laid out for the attack on Trenton. It triggered a memory. But I didn't recall all who took part in these planning meetings. Washington, Greene, Knox, Sullivan, Benjamin Rush. Having finished reading this book it will be a little harder to not stop and pause for a moment the next time I see one of these historical site signs. ...more This book was fascinating and compelling, told in an informative style that makes the reader feel present at the events themselves (as is characteristic of McCullough). As a longtime Civil War enthusiast, I found I knew very little regarding the American Revolution, so this book proved to be a treasure trove of interesting facts. The realism with which Washington is described, in both strengths and weaknesses, is a welcome contrast to the near-reverence seen in other texts. \"1776\" allows us to s This book was fascinating and compelling, told in an informative style that makes the reader feel present at the events themselves (as is characteristic of McCullough). As a longtime Civil War enthusiast, I found I knew very little regarding the American Revolution, so this book proved to be a treasure trove of interesting facts. The realism with which Washington is described, in both strengths and weaknesses, is a welcome contrast to the near-reverence seen in other texts. \"1776\" allows us to see a man of much indecision, of undesired fame, and of questionable military ability. But we the readers are also struck by the image of this same man, riding his horse into battle alongside his half-naked, untrained, starving \"soldiers\", and singlehandedly inspiring them to fight and die for our freedom. And the events of that fateful year take on even more significance when one realizes that, as McCullough points out, Washington and his contemporaries were essentially committing high treason. ...more Pulitzer prize winner and well deserving. This chronicles Washington's army from just after Bunker Hill to the dramatic crossing of the Delaware and his Christmas attack of the Hessians at Trenton. Well researched and superbly written, very entertaining. McCullough paints a vivid portrait of legendary time. 4.5 stars. David McCullough does it again. This is an excellent, entertaining and engaging description of one of the \"pivotal\" years in American History. Beginning with the early American victory at the \"Siege of Boston,\" McCullough details the disastrous results for the Americans at a series of battles to follow (most notably the Battle of Long Island and the taking of Fort Washington and Fort Lee). McCullough makes it clear that the American cause was on the point of collapse when, in December 4.5 stars. David McCullough does it again. This is an excellent, entertaining and engaging description of one of the \"pivotal\" years in American History. Beginning with the early American victory at the \"Siege of Boston,\" McCullough details the disastrous results for the Americans at a series of battles to follow (most notably the Battle of Long Island and the taking of Fort Washington and Fort Lee). McCullough makes it clear that the American cause was on the point of collapse when, in December 1776, Washington makes his famous crossing of the Delaware and wins a decisive victory at the Battle Trenton, a victory that clearly re-invigorated the American cause. The war would continue for another six years after 1776, but McCullough very powerfully gives the readers the impression that at the end of 1776, the American morale was as high as at any time in the past and that they truly believed that victory was now a question of \"when\" and no longer \"if.\" HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!! ...more I'm at a loss to find the right superlative, but this has to be one of the most enthralling, engrossing, and entertaining histories I've ever had the pleasure to experience. This is my first McCullough book, so perhaps this is the norm. Boy, I sure hope so. As with a few other books on the Revolutionary War that I've read recently, I keep asking myself, \"Why didn't we learn about our nation's founding with books like this ??? It sure would have made it more interesting. McCullough covers this single I'm at a loss to find the right superlative, but this has to be one of the most enthralling, engrossing, and entertaining histories I've ever had the pleasure to experience. This is my first McCullough book, so perhaps this is the norm. Boy, I sure hope so. As with a few other books on the Revolutionary War that I've read recently, I keep asking myself, \"Why didn't we learn about our nation's founding with books like this ??? It sure would have made it more interesting. McCullough covers this single year (with some runover from 1775 and into 1777) with amazing depth and detail that brought this early pivotal year to roaring life. His use of the words of common soldiers gives it the right touch of anecdotal accessibility and real-life authenticity rather than simply relying on the words of the big players who were aware at the time of writing that their words would be handed down to posterity. After several months of devastating defeats at Brooklyn Heights, Kip's Bay, White Plains, and Fort Washington when it seemed the American cause was doomed, the book ends on a high note of optimism after the daring crossing of the Delaware and the subsequent American victory at the Battle of Trenton where not a single American life was lost. The British, however, were assured of their own victory but were somewhat more respectful of the \"rabble in arms\" opposing them. My only gripe with the book is that McCullough quickly summarizes the rest of the war rather than continuing with volumes titled 1777 , 1778 , 1779 and so on! ...more Trust David McCullough to make a story you have heard many times still thrilling. I enjoyed immensely McCullough's John Adams, even though it took me a month or so to read, so look forward to 1776. I was not disappointed. The book is a short one, and covers a topic I thought I knew well. Surely this material has been plowed through so thoroughly, there is nothing new to unearth? I was wrong. The book read with a raw novelty, as though I was reading about events for the first time, the shadows of which are often Disney-fied for social studies and history classes. I learned how r I enjoyed immensely McCullough's John Adams, even though it took me a month or so to read, so look forward to 1776. I was not disappointed. The book is a short one, and covers a topic I thought I knew well. Surely this material has been plowed through so thoroughly, there is nothing new to unearth? I was wrong. The book read with a raw novelty, as though I was reading about events for the first time, the shadows of which are often Disney-fied for social studies and history classes. I learned how rag tag Washington's insurgents were (I use this term deliberately since the parallels between his militia and those operating against an occupying superpower of our time have eerie parallels). It was clear the struggle could have gone either way, and in New York and New Jersey, those fighting for secession from England were not at all popularly supported. The miseries of war and the relatively abstract differences that separated the crown from her subjects as well as the cruelties shown toward the Tories makes one question whether the apotheosis of this insurgency we are all force-fed in school and once a year each July 4th is really justified. I learned much about Benjamin Rush, one of the very few signers of the Declaration of Independence yet to see the reality of war firsthand. ' It was now for the first-time war appeared to me in its awful plentitude of horrors. I want words to describe the anguish of my soul, excited by the cries and groans and convulsions of the men who lay by my side.'\" -287 The war killed 25,000 Americans (1% of the population). \"The war was a longer, far more arduous, and more painful struggle that later generations would understand or sufficiently appreciate. But the time it ended, it had taken the lives of an estimated 25,000 Americans, or roughly 1 percent of the population. In percentage of lives lost, it was most costly war in American history, except for the Civil War.\" (page 294) Considering the Canadians, where many Tories fled or were exiled, now have universal health insurance and a higher standard of living than we, what was all this violence all about? McCullough did not mean this to be a pacifist tract, but for those of us who question the wisdom and morality of the use of violence to impose our will on others, the book adds graphic evidence that undercuts the cartoon-like nonsense we were taught in school. ...more Oh, why did I put this book down for so long? I forgot what a wonderful writer David McCullough is. Especially in these last few pages he was making the revolution come alive to me. Of course, it did help that it had gotten to where Washington crosses the Delaware and routs the drunken Hessians by Trenton. (Per McCullough, the Hessians weren't really drunk. Just another urban legend, I guess.) I had friends who lived in Yardley, PA, right by Washington's Crossing, which, I presume, is the then Mc Oh, why did I put this book down for so long? I forgot what a wonderful writer David McCullough is. Especially in these last few pages he was making the revolution come alive to me. Of course, it did help that it had gotten to where Washington crosses the Delaware and routs the drunken Hessians by Trenton. (Per McCullough, the Hessians weren't really drunk. Just another urban legend, I guess.) I had friends who lived in Yardley, PA, right by Washington's Crossing, which, I presume, is the then McKonkey's Ferry. They do a reenactment there. We didn't go out in the middle of the night to see them cross, but in the morning (I think it was Christmas morning) we went over there and we didn't see a lot of ice, but it was a warm winter that year, and a wonderful display by a piper band coming out of the fog. I almost swooned - it was really enough to almost take your breath away. In college, there was a professor who said that any general but Howe could have beat Washington and any general but Washington could have beat Howe. I don't know. Washington had an awful lot go wrong for him in the year 1776, especially from August to December. On November 30, I think it was Howe (might have been Cornwallis) made an offer for people to quit the Americans. And the people in New Jersey were coming in by droves. It is end of December and another enlistment period is almost up and Washington is fearful that he is not going to have an army come the new year. They must do something daring! They do. Washington preaches perseverance. He was one who learned from experience and probably rarely made the same mistake twice. Thank goodness or who knows what would have happened to us. Franklin once famously said that we must all hang together or else we will hang separately. So I, for one, am grateful for Washington's perseverance. ...more The musical was better! No, I\u2019m kidding (although I am one of 23 people on this planet to actually likes the B\u2019way show. No excuse for the other planets). I want David McCullough to be my grandfather, sit near a fireplace, smoke a pipe and tell me stories. I don\u2019t care about what\u2014just talk. I like his not-so-stuffy writing style. I always have. In \u201c1776\u201d he continues making historical figures and events accessible and even entertaining. His research is (as far as I know) impeccable. And thar\u2019 be The musical was better! No, I\u2019m kidding (although I am one of 23 people on this planet to actually likes the B\u2019way show. No excuse for the other planets). I want David McCullough to be my grandfather, sit near a fireplace, smoke a pipe and tell me stories. I don\u2019t care about what\u2014just talk. I like his not-so-stuffy writing style. I always have. In \u201c1776\u201d he continues making historical figures and events accessible and even entertaining. His research is (as far as I know) impeccable. And thar\u2019 be the problem mates\u2019. His narrative is contained to the one year\u2014and, yes, it was an incredible one\u2014where the reader is plopped into a time vortex that needs a huge amount of back story (i.e. explain just about everything). It all seems like an appendix to his masterpiece \u201cJohn Adams.\u201d There was a wagon load of notes left over from that one so bind them all into another. I am being unfair, I realize. If you don\u2019t compare it to \u201cAdams,\u201d it is better than your average book on the American Revolution . . . a lot better. Detailed when it needs to be, anecdotal enough to make characters human, succinct summarizations of complex events (often happening simultaneously) and easy on the old noggin. I am also one of only nine people (among all the planets) who thinks the Broadway Show \u201cBen Franklin in Paris\u201d was kinda cool. Oh, mock me if you want. I am secure enough to take it. ...more \"1776\" details the events of George Washington and his officers from the summer of 1775 through January of 1777. The book is written in what I find to be a nauseating and anti-intellectual best-seller style, heavy on quotes and light on insight. The entire book relies on \"unnecessary\" quotations from \"source material,\" and 95% of the book is comprised of \"adjectives\" describing \"sensorium.\" If you want descriptions of how the Potomac smelled one morning, or how Washington's buttons on a coat \"shi \"1776\" details the events of George Washington and his officers from the summer of 1775 through January of 1777. The book is written in what I find to be a nauseating and anti-intellectual best-seller style, heavy on quotes and light on insight. The entire book relies on \"unnecessary\" quotations from \"source material,\" and 95% of the book is comprised of \"adjectives\" describing \"sensorium.\" If you want descriptions of how the Potomac smelled one morning, or how Washington's buttons on a coat \"shined\" in the sun, then \"this\" is the book for you. The only \"literature\" I know that reads anything like \"1776\" is \"Penthouse Forum.\" Example? >>the Howe brothers...were rich, accomplished, and extremely well connected...both men ...had a decided resemblance, a rather gloomy, dark look, with dark eyes, heavy lids, and a swarthy complexion. But the general was the taller of the two, at about six feet...<< I'm surprised a bodice never ripped. By all means, buy this book for your TV-watching dad if he likes fluffy, substance-less \"history\" books, but if you want to actually read about the Revolutionary War, pick up a 5th-grade social studies textbook. ...more A British ship\u2019s surgeon who used the privileges of his profession to visit some of the rebel camps, described roads crowded with carts and wagons hauling mostly provisions, but also, he noted, inordinate quantities of rum \u2014 \u201cfor without New England rum, a New England army could not be kept together.\u201d The rebels, he calculated, were consuming a bottle a day per man. One late night foray led me to finish this book hours after beginning. It is no great shame, but it was the musical Hamilton which i A British ship\u2019s surgeon who used the privileges of his profession to visit some of the rebel camps, described roads crowded with carts and wagons hauling mostly provisions, but also, he noted, inordinate quantities of rum \u2014 \u201cfor without New England rum, a New England army could not be kept together.\u201d The rebels, he calculated, were consuming a bottle a day per man. One late night foray led me to finish this book hours after beginning. It is no great shame, but it was the musical Hamilton which inclined me to approach the work. My days of matriculation were often obscured to such narrative histories. 25 years ago at university I was an aspiring Marxist and I saw the American Revolution as between two slave owning factions of the same burning house. I now regard that approach as painfully na\u00efve. 1776 chronicles more or less of the famed year in American Independence when Washington's cobbled forces stumbled about. The vastly superior Royal forces didn't appear to appreciate the significance of the stakes. Few do in the moment. ...more McCullough is not a very good prose writer. Faulkner would have trouble parsing some of his sentences. Also, he's apparently never heard of parallel construction. However, he knows how to cull facts and construct a compelling story. He starts off with King George III giving a speech full of arrogance and bluster that only a British monarch could muster--or possibly a professional wrestler. He ends the book with King George III giving a speech with a more chastened tone. In between Washington tak McCullough is not a very good prose writer. Faulkner would have trouble parsing some of his sentences. Also, he's apparently never heard of parallel construction. However, he knows how to cull facts and construct a compelling story. He starts off with King George III giving a speech full of arrogance and bluster that only a British monarch could muster--or possibly a professional wrestler. He ends the book with King George III giving a speech with a more chastened tone. In between Washington takes Boston, gets his wooden teeth kicked in in New York, and comes back Rocky-style in New Jersey. A fascinating history, but I found myself, especially during the battle and marching scenes, wishing McCullough (or his publisher) had included more maps. This book only contains three facsimiles of maps which were drawn in 1776. They were mostly useless. ...more Fireworks and the Declaration of Independence are the only 2 things we normally associate with 1776. I thought I had a good outline of the war. Was I wrong, this book reveals so much that is skipped over in most history classes and books. Read this incredible story to find out the real story of that fateful year. How close we came to being crushed by the dominant military power in the world. What increased admiration I have for the men who fought through to end that year in victory when all seem Fireworks and the Declaration of Independence are the only 2 things we normally associate with 1776. I thought I had a good outline of the war. Was I wrong, this book reveals so much that is skipped over in most history classes and books. Read this incredible story to find out the real story of that fateful year. How close we came to being crushed by the dominant military power in the world. What increased admiration I have for the men who fought through to end that year in victory when all seemed lost. Washington comes through as a real person, not some misty legend. He made plenty of errors on the way to learning how to lead an army. The stories of Greene and Knox are also wonderfully revealing. Should be mandatory reading for all high school students. And it is a easy book to get through-I wish there were some more maps but that's me. Story is fine as it is. ...more Being a fan of the TV series TURN: Washington's Spies, I had a particular interest in this book. Also, David McCullough is a magnificent author. I listened to the audio book and McCullough also read the book in which he also is quite talented. The year 1776 was a very pivotal year in the American Revolution. On July 4th every year, we celebrate the Declaration of Independence. It was also year that did not go particularly well for General George Washington. The year 1776 marked the year Great Bri Being a fan of the TV series TURN: Washington's Spies, I had a particular interest in this book. Also, David McCullough is a magnificent author. I listened to the audio book and McCullough also read the book in which he also is quite talented. The year 1776 was a very pivotal year in the American Revolution. On July 4th every year, we celebrate the Declaration of Independence. It was also year that did not go particularly well for General George Washington. The year 1776 marked the year Great Britain assembled the greatest invasion force in its history and even the 18th century with 400 ships entering the harbor around Long Island. King George wanted to put an end to the unrest in the American Colonies. The British almost accomplished that mission. In the early days of the Revolutionary War, generals on both sides didn't have any idea the strength of the enemy and therefore made decisions on inadequate information. Washington was an information-based general and wanted make decisions on what he knew. That turned out to be very little. After major defeats at New York in the summer 1776, Washington withdrew his forces to regroup. The Continental Army was out-manned, out-gunned and lacked the experience in battle engagements the British Army possessed. After reading and watching many fictionalized accounts of the Revolutionary War, the more factual information doesn't carry the drama and is not quite as interesting. Even McCullough's meticulous research and presentation waned a little for me. I think this had to do with the book being about a time period rather than a particular individual. A good part of the historical record is captured through private correspondence between various people of the time. McCullough does pay substantial tribute to George Washington. This tribute is inspiring. Washington was not a highly trained soldier, or strategist or a particularly articulate man. Yet he believed in America's freedom and was an unwavering stalwart in leading the army to win for that cause. The book 1776 is an interesting and inspiring account of the tremendous perseverance, heroism and just plain luck (or call it what you want) of America's road to independence. ...more I never thought I'd enjoy a book about war and its battles, but this book, _1776_, drew me in as did McCullough's _John Adams_). McCullough makes it all so real again. The last page of the book says it all: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p.294 - \"The year 1776... a year of all-too-few victories, of sustained suffering, disease, hunger, desertion, cowardice, disillusionment, defeat, terrible discouragement, and fear... [After all that:] ...the outcome seemed little short of a miracle.\" I never thought I'd enjoy a book about war and its battles, but this book, _1776_, drew me in as did McCullough's _John Adams_). McCullough makes it all so real again. The last page of the book says it all: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p.294 - \"The year 1776... a year of all-too-few victories, of sustained suffering, disease, hunger, desertion, cowardice, disillusionment, defeat, terrible discouragement, and fear... [After all that:] ...the outcome seemed little short of a miracle.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Yes, as I read the book, I kept thinking what a miracle it was that the Americans finally defeated the British. The book makes one realize the terrible sacrifices that were made by the Americans in the cause of liberty. \"The war\"... (which ended in 1783) \"...had taken the lives of an estimated 25,000 Americans, or roughly 1 percent of the population.\" It's hard to imagine persevering through all that suffering, especially when the odds of winning were often so low. Much credit is given to George Washington for his persevering attitude. On page 271, it says: \"Out of adversity he seemed to draw greater energy and determination.\" Nathanael Greene wrote that GW \"never appeared to so much advantage as in the hour of distress.\" Abigail Adams wrote (quoting English poet, Edward Young): \"Affliction is the good man's shining time.\" (p.291) ...more Backwards, men, to victory! This is a thoroughly readable history of how George Washington and his rag tag band of semi-soldiers finally wore down the British. Oh, the British were as we are now--huge navy, army, and hired help (Blackwater for us--Hessians for them). And except for a couple of brilliant moves (like capturing a bunch of huge canon from Ft. Ticonderoga and moving them cross country, through the mud and slime, to Boston), and one morning the British woke up and found an entire line Backwards, men, to victory! This is a thoroughly readable history of how George Washington and his rag tag band of semi-soldiers finally wore down the British. Oh, the British were as we are now--huge navy, army, and hired help (Blackwater for us--Hessians for them). And except for a couple of brilliant moves (like capturing a bunch of huge canon from Ft. Ticonderoga and moving them cross country, through the mud and slime, to Boston), and one morning the British woke up and found an entire line of defenses built overnight! and huge canon in place. But that was one of the few times George got it over the Brits. Most of the time it was skirmish and retreat... run from the guns... and then, one cold Xmas eve, George had had enough. His men were bootless, cold, hungry. The British were just across the Delaware river, celebrating Xmas, and George had this wild idea...... well, damn it, we keep loosing and loosing.... so ....let's attack! Xmas.... they won't expect it. And they didn't, and, as they say, the rest is history. A fun wonderful read, and it helps humanize the apotheosis of Washington back to reality. And in case you didn't know, Washington did NOT want this commission. He hated being the head of the whole thing. He kept asking congress to relieve him of this burden, and.... they would not. Good for them and for us. ...more This is another marvelously written book (the third one I've read) by David McCullough. McCullough is one of our best living historians, the winner of two National Book Awards and two Pulitzer Prizes. He knows how to tell a gripping story. His characters come alive, he adds key quotations, and the narrative flows at the right pace. His research is impeccable with many important primary sources. I believe he gets the history right! \"1776\" is the story of this early year of the Revolutionary War an This is another marvelously written book (the third one I've read) by David McCullough. McCullough is one of our best living historians, the winner of two National Book Awards and two Pulitzer Prizes. He knows how to tell a gripping story. His characters come alive, he adds key quotations, and the narrative flows at the right pace. His research is impeccable with many important primary sources. I believe he gets the history right! \"1776\" is the story of this early year of the Revolutionary War and particularly of George Washington's campaigns. Key characters include General Washington, his major commanders and staff, British commander General Howe, his major commanders and staff, cameos by various soldiers on both sides, and King George III. Major campaigns and battles include the Siege of Boston, the various battles around New York, and the Battles of Trenton and Princeton. McCullough takes us through a harrowing year of fighting for Washington and his precarious Continental Army. As we know, the revolution teetered on the brink of defeat and collapse for much of this period. Washington is portrayed with all his faults and strengths; and comes through with amazing courage and fortitude. This is an amazing and highly recommended book. ...more I liked this book. Not the most riveting I've ever read, but McCullough did a great job with the narrative of the war in the title year. It was actually all stuff I never knew about, or had vaguely heard about (like the crossing of the Delaware). I didn't learn about the actual warfare in school, only the stuff going on in Philadelphia. The book also gives a great character profile of George Washington, Nathaniel Greene, and Henry Knox, among other major players of the revolution, as well as the I liked this book. Not the most riveting I've ever read, but McCullough did a great job with the narrative of the war in the title year. It was actually all stuff I never knew about, or had vaguely heard about (like the crossing of the Delaware). I didn't learn about the actual warfare in school, only the stuff going on in Philadelphia. The book also gives a great character profile of George Washington, Nathaniel Greene, and Henry Knox, among other major players of the revolution, as well as the general character of the troops (weary, dirty, disease-ridden, ready to desert most of the time). What I thought was remarkable was that he didn't even mention the signing of the Declaration of Independence except in passing, like \"so-and-so, a signer of the Declaration, did such-and-such.\" Crazy. I would recommend this to anyone who is interested in the Revolutionary War, especially the actual war part. ...more McCullough's abundant citations from contemporaneous accounts of soldiers and leaders during the fateful year 1776 humanizes this chronicle of the disastrous campaign that nearly lost the revolutionary war. For readers that today look back and assume the war's conclusion was foregone, it is jarring to note how close defeat was, and how ineffectual the leadership of General George Washington was during most of the first year. And yet, it is hard not to see the Hand of Providence at work during ti McCullough's abundant citations from contemporaneous accounts of soldiers and leaders during the fateful year 1776 humanizes this chronicle of the disastrous campaign that nearly lost the revolutionary war. For readers that today look back and assume the war's conclusion was foregone, it is jarring to note how close defeat was, and how ineffectual the leadership of General George Washington was during most of the first year. And yet, it is hard not to see the Hand of Providence at work during times when a contrary wind or bank of fog prevented the destruction of the Continental Army. Washington ultimately found his voice and gave his troops the inspirational leadership they needed, at the exact moment it was most required. ...more This book is a detailed account of the American Revloutionary War as told by cronicles of the real people who lived through it. The only thing it didn't really mention a whole lot was the pivotal role Vin Diesel played when taking the guns from Ft. Greyskull. Or the part where George Washington jumps the Delaware River on his wacky big front wheel bike. If you want something so dense, so boring, and so un-enlightening, then THIS is your book. Does McCullough write specifically for people that have insomnia? The dictionary was more enthralling than this tome. I would Wikipedia the Revolutionary War if that is your thing. You can get the highlights without loosing consciousness 9 times.", "Title": "1776"},
