{"Comments": "\u201dOnce upon a... Time, you\u2019ll be pleased to know--and since one must start somewhere--was created in creation. What was there before creation? is meaningless.<---F> Time is a property of creation</---F>. What there was was the Old Chap peering in a state of perpetual nowness up His own almighty sphincter trying to find out who the devil He was. His big problem was there was no way to distinguish Himself from the Void. If you\u2019re Everything you might as well be Nothing. So He created us, and with a whiz and a ban \u201dOnce upon a... Time, you\u2019ll be pleased to know--and since one must start somewhere--was created in creation. What was there before creation? is meaningless. Time is a property of creation. What there was was the Old Chap peering in a state of perpetual nowness up His own almighty sphincter trying to find out who the devil He was. His big problem was there was no way to distinguish Himself from the Void. If you\u2019re Everything you might as well be Nothing. So He created us, and with a whiz and a bang (<---B>quite a small one, actually</---B>) Old Time was born.\u201d When he fell it created hell Evil is supposed to be charming, seductive, handsome, beautiful, and...well... naughty in the best possible way. There are many names for the angel that personifies evil: Beelzebub, Mephistopheles,<---M> Prince of Darkness</---M>, Satan, b\u00eate noire, dastard, diablo, djinn, dybbuk, enfant terrible, evil one, and the Devil are just a few choice epithets that have been hurled at the DARK ONE , but the only name he answers to is the one that god gave him...Lucifer. Lucifer from the TV show Supernatural The basis of this novel is that GOD sends his emissaries to chat with Lucifer about forgiveness. The deal is that Lucifer has to spend thirty days walking the Earth as a human. Now Lucifer isn\u2019t even sure he wants forgiveness and besides how out of balance would the world be without his seductive whisper moving things along. He decides that this experiment, at least, might be fun. Lucifer tussles with JC in the wilderness and had him right where he wanted him except GOD cheated. Lucifer ends up in the body of a suicidal writer, are there any other kind, and is less than thrilled with the chassis he has been issued. As he watches Declan Gunn\u2019s girlfriend... ahhh... well pleasure him he makes the mistake of looking in the mirror. \u201dWatching in the mirror turned out to be a bad idea, what with Gunn\u2019s wayward gut and hairy legs, what with his double chin, dugs and jug-handle ears, what with his body being a sort of anti-aphrodisiac.\u201d Lucifer is happy with the evolution of women\u2019s looks. Women had touched themselves up--cosmetically, thank you--and their features glowed and gleamed: mouths like scimitars in claret, plum, sienna, mimosa, pearl, burgundy and puce, smokily shadowed eyes with diamond hints and sapphire glints, flecks of emerald and fragments of jade. Easy there Lucifer you are just passing through. He meets up with Lady Harriet Marsh who is made to order for a fallen angel obsessed with sin. Lady Harriet Marsh, you\u2019d think, what with the bevelled vowels and Susanna-York-on-smack looks. Sixty years old now (quite a while since I\u2019d last seen her) with a freckled body of complicated wiriness under a black halter-neck cocktail dress. Magnificently bored green eyes. Hair dyed a colour between platinum and pale pink, pinned up, with wispy bits dangling. The odd liver spot. Brazenly crafted Los Angeles teeth. Susanna York had the devil in her eye. I gotta hand it to Harriet with most of the female population younger than her she still had the goods to catch the eye of the devil himself. It wasn\u2019t so much how she looked, but how her life\u2019s resume is red inked with sordid behavior. Lucifer decides to write a novel about himself, after all he is supposed to be a writer and wouldn\u2019t it be great to make Declan Gunn rich. The added bonus of this idea is that after he vacates the body he would have one more potential sinner to cultivate. As the story progresses and his sense of himself becomes more and more murky he starts to write less about himself and more about Declan Gunn. I read The Last Werewolf by <---A>Glen Duncan</---A> and thought it was snarky and witty and fun. When I discovered that he had written a book about Lucifer I thought... wow... what a perfect idea for this writer. Maybe my expectations were too high. Is it possible I failed as a reader? Well maybe, but the one thing I can not abide is a book to be BORING . The book had some wonderful lines, but the chatterbox, whiny, nagging voice of Lucifer took all the sparkle out of what should have been a slam dunk wonderful novel. I will end with a dash of Duncan getting it right. \u2019Do you ever have those dreams,\u2019 Harriet rasped, slowly, \u2018where you\u2019ve done something, something terrible and irreversible? Something horrific, and no matter how much you\u2019re sorry it\u2019s no good? It\u2019s indelible?\u2019 \u2018No.\u2019 I didn\u2019t look at her. Didn\u2019t need to. I knew what she\u2019d look like, lying on her side, face to the window, the city\u2019s lights minutely captured in the glossy convexities of her tired eyes. I knew she\u2019d be unblinking, her cheek squashed in the deep pillow, her mouth dripping a single strand of spittle. I knew she\u2019d look sad as hell. \u2018I have that dream all the time,\u2019 she said. \u2018Except when I\u2019m asleep.\u2019 If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more From a descriptive-writing perspective, this book is almost flawless. Glen Duncan has the ability to engage all the senses of the reader in a way I've never seen bettered. Were I to review this book purely on the power of its evocative descriptions, it'd earn five stars without a doubt. I could overlook the peppering of grammatical misdemeanours (comma-spliced sentences; commas where they don't belong; missing commas where they do belong; several instances of using 'her' where the correct pronou From a descriptive-writing perspective, this book is almost flawless. Glen Duncan has the ability to engage all the senses of the reader in a way I've never seen bettered. Were I to review this book purely on the power of its evocative descriptions, it'd earn five stars without a doubt. I could overlook the peppering of grammatical misdemeanours (comma-spliced sentences; commas where they don't belong; missing commas where they do belong; several instances of using 'her' where the correct pronoun is 'she'), as they don't happen frequently enough to impede one's enjoyment of the text. They're niggles, that's all. Those schoolboy errors do, however, draw attention to the irony that - while he has developed a writing style which relies heavily on long, esoteric words - Glen Duncan never mastered the basic mechanics of the English language. He gets the difficult stuff incredibly right, but sometimes trips up on primary-school basics. Strange indeed. His writing is the literary equivalent of a sparkling gold Rolls Royce with breathtaking aesthetics and a sense of majesty, yet a peek under the bonnet reveals a few clunks and rattles in the heart of the machine. I couldn't shake the impression that Duncan often uses the longest word for the job, rather than the best one. Yes, he's an artiste who wants to impress with sweeping flourishes of poetic language, but Norman MacCaig - perhaps the greatest of all poets - would have advised, \"Study brevity.\" Sometimes the epic multisyllabic prose works beautifully, but it can begin to feel more than a little pretentious . As for the story, it's not particularly original; God offers Lucifer a sabbatical from Hell in the form of a one-month inhabitance inside the body of a recent suicide victim, writer Declan Gunn (an anagram of Glen Duncan), as a chance for the Devil to achieve redemption and stand once again at the side of his Maker. Duncan's description of Lucifer's overwhelming joy - and surprise - upon experiencing the world through human senses is gorgeously creative. True to his hedonistic reputation, Lucifer goes on to overstimulate all his human senses through every vice available as he follows his own agenda. As weeks pass, the fallen angel comes to see existence from a human perspective. He even feels flashes of empathy for humankind. Duncan's Lucifer is a foppish luvvie, a bisexual lecher, a seducer who charms humans into committing evil deeds. The luscious descriptions of human sensual experience are so vivid that they jar the reader out of his/her taking-them-for-granted attitude towards the senses. Whether you love or hate it, this book reintroduces the reader to the miracle that is human perception in all its forms. Glen Duncan writes with an authentic voice, descriptive flair and a passion for words which is palpable. If he ever gets around to truly mastering the nuts and bolts of grammar, while retaining his unique voice and breathtaking descriptive ability, then Duncan could become England's equivalent to Salman Rushdie. Until then, perhaps it is appropriate that this story - impressive as it is - contains the little flaws that make it all the more human. Just like the experience of its main protagonist. ...more Very funny, very intelligent and very original! The tag-line for this book (when did books start having tag-lines, anyway?) is \"Finally, the other side of the story.\" and that is exactly what we get. Lucifer is offered a chance to return to live in Heaven, by God, if he can live on Earth, as a mortal, and not cause trouble, for one month. The body he is given as his instrument of redemption belongs to a writer, and that inspires Lucifer to use the time to tell his version of Creation, Adam and E Very funny, very intelligent and very original! The tag-line for this book (when did books start having tag-lines, anyway?) is \"Finally, the other side of the story.\" and that is exactly what we get. Lucifer is offered a chance to return to live in Heaven, by God, if he can live on Earth, as a mortal, and not cause trouble, for one month. The body he is given as his instrument of redemption belongs to a writer, and that inspires Lucifer to use the time to tell his version of Creation, Adam and Eve and original sin, Jesus Christ (or Junior or Jimminy Christmas or a bunch of other nick names the Devil uses for the guy who got in the way of Hell being a capacity crowd), and a lot of other things that we mortals haven't gotten quite the truth about, in his opinion. With the power of clairvoyance, it's quite easy to gather an entourage of just the type of people we've all suspected were one step removed from the dark one - commercial film makers and their ilk. Underneath Lucifer's manipulations, there's a surprising sweet story of how the Angels (fallen and un-fallen) are similar to a lot of big families where the father reigns supreme. When that subplot turns into a very satisfying ending, you know you've read a story by an author who wasn't afraid to go full out. ...more \"<+++>I, Lucifer</+++>\" seems at first like your typical redemption-of-the-Devil story. God has decided to draw the curtains on the world, and gives Lucifer one last offer: live as a human, in a human body, for one month, and if he can do so without committing sin and doing harm, he's back in heaven. Thankfully, this is where the typical story and this story part ways. Lucifer takes the offer, but only to get the identity. Once he's in the body of suicidal author Declan Gunn, he throws the prospect of a go \"<+++>I, Lucifer</+++>\" seems at first like your typical redemption-of-the-Devil story. God has decided to draw the curtains on the world, and gives Lucifer one last offer: live as a human, in a human body, for one month, and if he can do so without committing sin and doing harm, he's back in heaven. Thankfully, this is where the typical story and this story part ways. Lucifer takes the offer, but only to get the identity. Once he's in the body of suicidal author Declan Gunn, he throws the prospect of a good clean life out the window, and takes the opportunity to relish the sinful world and write up a movie script: his side of the War in Heaven and the Fall and Creation, never before told. The book is written through the voice of Lucifer himself, keeping the typical \"charming/gentleman devil\" personality. The wording is clever and yes, enjoyable, but contains a flaw so big even the main character sees it and feels the need to apologize several times because of it: Lucifer rambles. A lot. Often, the main story will diverge down a rabbit trail, and then another, and then another and another, until you're so lost you've forgotten what the main point was. Towards the end I found myself skipping whole sections of rabbit trails and I lost none of the actual plot by doing this. \"So wait,\" you say, \"you give this book 4 stars despite this great flaw?\" Yes, I say, I do. 4.5 if I could, in fact. Rabbit trails aside, the main story is quirky, charming, entertaining, emotional and even at times insightful. There are lots of fresh ideas and twists breathed into this plot, saving it from being just another done-and-done-again tale. It even throws in a few keen surprises, and some of the book's descriptions are downright beautiful, showing how much creative work Duncan put into this. Other readers have expressed squeamishness at the idea of a story that plays towards sympathy for the Devil, and if you feel too terribly uncomfortable with it you might want to skip by. But remember, it's just a book: a story written by a human for other humans. Read it, enjoy it, laugh, think, and like me, recommend to people looking for a fresh, intriguing, and introspective take on an old concept. ...more Please allow me to introduce myself I'm a man of wealth and taste I've been around for a long, long year Stole many a man's soul and faith... -Sympathy for the Devil, the Rolling Stones A positively wicked romp through what the titular character calls \"the concussive world of matter.\" The book chronicles Lucifer's brief reincarnation and experiences in fleshy form. Like Roald Dahl's My Uncle Oswald , I, Lucifer is explicit without being raunchy, vivid without being too overt, and tastefully navigat Please allow me to introduce myself I'm a man of wealth and taste I've been around for a long, long year Stole many a man's soul and faith... -Sympathy for the Devil, the Rolling Stones A positively wicked romp through what the titular character calls \"the concussive world of matter.\" The book chronicles Lucifer's brief reincarnation and experiences in fleshy form. Like Roald Dahl's My Uncle Oswald , I, Lucifer is explicit without being raunchy, vivid without being too overt, and tastefully navigates the temptations of the flesh (in all its forms). The book's greatest credit is Duncan's positively elegant prose; he is at once conversational and engaging, teasing and seriously provocative, challenging and supplicant. His tongue-in-cheek pop culture references and name drops are hilariously apt. His unexpected turns of phrase are exquisite. He is understated where understatement is called for, and exceeds expectations throughout. I literally laughed out loud, often, and found myself grinning foolishly a good deal of the rest of the time. Notable quotes: \"I, Lucifer, Fallen Angel, Prince of Darkness, Bringer of Light, Ruler of Hell, Lord of the Flies, Father of Lies, Apostate Supreme, Tempter of Mankind, Old Serpent, Prince of This World, Seducer, Accuser, Tormentor, Blasphemer, and without doubt Best Fuck in the Seen and Unseen Universe (ask Eve, that minx ) have decided - oo-la-la! - to tell all.\" (introductory paragraph) \"(Not that I can claim any credit for 'Sympathy for the Devil', by the way. You'd think, wouldn't you? But no, that was Mick and Keith all on their own.)\" \"(This thing about AIDS being God's punishment kills me. It's mine , you sillies . It's a nose-thumb to Himself: Look, even when it's killing them they can't stop.)\" \"Welcome, Lucifer, to the concussive world of matter.\" \"A lawless horde of smells: soap, chalk, rotting wood, limescale, sweat, semen, vaginal juice, toothpaste, ammonia, stale tea, vomit, linoleum, rust, chlorine - a stampede of whiffs, a roistering cavalcade of reeks, stinks and perfumes in Bacchanalian cahoots... all are weeuylcum . . . all are weeyulcum . . . Yes, they certainly were, though they fairly gang-banged my virgin nostrils.\" (upon his first sensory experience) \"(I've rubbed my nose in a good many places since then, but I'm damned if I've found much to compare with the honk of a dog's foot. It's the smell of idiotic and inexhaustible optimism.)\" \"Some humans survive concentration camps, others are driven over the edge by a broken fingernail, a forgotten birthday, an unpayable phone bill. Gunn's somewhere in-between. Somewhere in-between's where I do much of my finest work.\" \"Truth is Adam and Eve had sex a few times [...:]; it just hadn't been much fun. It hadn't been unpleasant , but it hadn't been sex as you know it. [...:] It was just another thing they did because that was the way they were made. Edenic sex didn't feel good and it didn't feel bad. How times have changed, n'est-ce pas? Now it feels so gerd . Now it feels so bayered . Yes? No, really, you're too kind.\" Those are only to name a few. One of the most delightful books I've read in a while. Not recommended for young readers. ...more So I borrowed this book from my roommate's boyfriend, but I'm going to buy a copy. I want to read it again and again. In the beginning, everything is very clear cut. The devil gets to be a human for a month? sign me up. He's debaucherous and witty and gets into all kinds of biblical discussions about the history of creation and the Fall. the book tricks you into thinking it will all be fun and shenanigans. But it gets very mind-bending towards the end. Lucifer contemplates a lot of possible outc So I borrowed this book from my roommate's boyfriend, but I'm going to buy a copy. I want to read it again and again. In the beginning, everything is very clear cut. The devil gets to be a human for a month? sign me up. He's debaucherous and witty and gets into all kinds of biblical discussions about the history of creation and the Fall. the book tricks you into thinking it will all be fun and shenanigans. But it gets very mind-bending towards the end. Lucifer contemplates a lot of possible outcomes even though you know, reading, that he won't do the good thing; In the end he will still be the devil. Here's the thing: I really like religious commentary and I like when characters are barefaced liars. The whole book he doesn't even know himself, going on and on about how not-prideful he is when that's really the thing that's defined him, given him an identity since... you know. Although I do occasionally wake up in the middle of the night thinking about some of the things in this book and was a little unnerved to see them. So... if you enjoy laughing and thinking and worrying about the future of the cosmos and your own soul's fate, this book is just for you. ...more Ili su moja o\u010dekivanja bila preeeeeeevelika ili je Dankan ovde \u017eestoko oma\u0161io... Odmah da napi\u0161em - nisam \u010ditao nijedan od njegovih romana iz sveta vukodlaka (iako mi lagano hvataju pra\u0161inu na polici jer ne mogu da stignu na red od nekih drugih knjiga) i iskreno se nadam da doti\u010dni romani nisu ovakvi... Dankan i ja se ve\u0107 na prvih dvadesetak strana nismo na\u0161li. Iako su mi mnogi nahvalili ovaj roman i pro\u010ditao sam dosta pozitivnih kritika, jednostavno ne mogu da na\u0111em dovoljno razloga kako bi ovaj Ili su moja o\u010dekivanja bila preeeeeeevelika ili je Dankan ovde \u017eestoko oma\u0161io... Odmah da napi\u0161em - nisam \u010ditao nijedan od njegovih romana iz sveta vukodlaka (iako mi lagano hvataju pra\u0161inu na polici jer ne mogu da stignu na red od nekih drugih knjiga) i iskreno se nadam da doti\u010dni romani nisu ovakvi... Dankan i ja se ve\u0107 na prvih dvadesetak strana nismo na\u0161li. Iako su mi mnogi nahvalili ovaj roman i pro\u010ditao sam dosta pozitivnih kritika, jednostavno ne mogu da na\u0111em dovoljno razloga kako bi ovaj roman dobio vi\u0161e od dve zvezdice, ali da krenem redom... Reklamiran kao urnebesno sme\u0161an, roman je pao ve\u0107 na prvoj \u010detvrtini... Do samog kraja Dankan je uspeo da mi izmami dva sme\u0161ka (jedno na ra\u010dun prizivanja Lucifera i drugo na ra\u010dun (da prostite) prdenja u kadi i Krakena). Roman je na\u017ealost suv, suvoparan, sa mnogo humoristi\u010dnog potencijala, ali avaj neiskori\u0161tenog... Na previ\u0161e mesta sam zevao ili me je hvatao san... Previ\u0161e prazne pri\u010de, nasilno detaljnih opisa, premalo radnje. A ovo tematski nije knjiga kod koje bih o\u010dekivao toliko opisa. Znam, znam, za\u0161titnici i pobornici ove knjige \u0107e re\u0107i kako to mora biti tako jer Lucifer ulazi u telo prozai\u010dnog pisca itd, itd... Lep izgovor para vredi, me\u0111utim previ\u0161e pasusa smaraju. Likovi su na\u017ealost bledi i dvodimenzionalni, Luciferovi izleti u tre\u0107u dimenziju li\u010dnosti deluju usiljeno i ve\u0161ta\u010dki i nekako totalno neuskla\u0111eno sa onim \u0161to Lucifer arhetipski predstavlja. Aman jesi li (ili nisi) vrhovno zlo ili si neki tamo cmizdravac?!? Ono \u0161to je simpati\u010dno (iako to nije novotarija u knji\u017eevnosti) jeste anagramska igra imenom pisca - Declan Gunn = Glen Duncan. Druga stvar koja je doprinela tome da roman ocenim sa dve zvezdice jeste intertekstualnost sa Miltonom (i jo\u0161 nekim piscima) i preplitanje sa elementima popularne kulture (\u010ditao sam hrvatsko izdanje i svaka \u010dast prevodiocu koji je ukazao na neke stvari koje mogu lako da pobegnu iz vidokruga). A blasfemija? Meeeeeeeeh... Thumbs down! Ako je ve\u0107 planirao da napi\u0161e ne\u0161to blasfemi\u010dno, Dankanu je o\u010digledno nedostajalo hrabrosti da to uradi onako kako treba. Ovako je roman ispao povr\u0161an (i pored svoje intertekstualnosti) i sme\u0161an (ali ne u onom humoristi\u010dnom smislu ove re\u010di) pre svega zbog silnog potencijala koji je skoro pa uludo protra\u0107en. Ukoliko \u017eelite pravu blasfemiju koja vrca odli\u010dnim humorom, satirom, ironijom,... onda se dr\u017eite Saramagovog Kaina a ovu knjigu slobodno ostavite na dnu reading liste, negde iza drugih knjiga na polici... ...more WOW. So many chills on that last page. Adored it. The most compelling, witty, & vivid first-person narrative voice I've read in a really long time. All kinds of thought-provoking. Jesus Christ, this is the worst book I've read in a long time. This portrayal of Lucifer, while attempting to be witty and acerbic, comes across as a severe case of arrogant fallacy-of-youth A.D.D. suffering rebellious adolescent, scribbling into their hastily written diary. Want a well-written and interesting portrayal of the devil? Read Neil Gaiman's Sandman series, Mike Carey's Lucifer series (based on Gaiman's Lucifer) or Mikhail Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita, all of whom have charming Jesus Christ, this is the worst book I've read in a long time. This portrayal of Lucifer, while attempting to be witty and acerbic, comes across as a severe case of arrogant fallacy-of-youth A.D.D. suffering rebellious adolescent, scribbling into their hastily written diary. Want a well-written and interesting portrayal of the devil? Read Neil Gaiman's Sandman series, Mike Carey's Lucifer series (based on Gaiman's Lucifer) or Mikhail Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita, all of whom have charming, intelligent and likeable portrayals of Satan. Maybe I've been spoiled by such elegant, sexy, dapper Satans that Duncan's comes across especially petulant and bratty-mouthed, the kind of character that tries too hard to be a badass and comes across like the annoying kid in high school who wouldn't shut up with their bragging and posturing due to low self-esteem. Now I understand why I found this in the Adolescent Novels section of the library. Also, this book has way overdone it on parentheses, hyphens, colons, apostrophes, ellipses and italicized text, making it one hell of a stilted and clunky read. And holy shit, the DIGRESSIONS. In addition to the aforementioned detriments, I feel like the author should have made an effort to not make his (and Lucifer's) nationality so obvious, what with all the \"bugger, fagsmoke, poncy, arse\" and other British-isms coming out of Lucifer's mouth. Gaiman is also English, but I never felt like his Lucifer spoke in a manner that could be geographically placed anywhere, unlike Duncan's distinctly British Lucifer. I also felt like he should've neutralized the language of his other characters, since I doubt Pontius Pilate ever said \"it's fucking hot out here, man\" back in 30 AD. The suspension of disbelief that most of us adopt in order to become completely engulfed and enthralled by a novel was just not possible here due to this lazy-ass writing. And the anagram of the author's name with the name of the main character? Not impressed, and is the cherry on top of the messy, self absorbed, badly written cake that is I, Lucifer. ...more Book Info : Genre : Literary Fiction Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : People who like to look at things from a different perspective Trigger Warnings : This is a story told from Lucifer's point of view, so he often thinks about things that aren't at all nice, such as possibly raping a woman, or killing people, etc. It's mostly just thoughts, but be aware of them. Attempted suicide. My Thoughts : I'm still trying to make sense of this piece. The book isn't much about anything but the journey, Lucife Book Info : Genre : Literary Fiction Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : People who like to look at things from a different perspective Trigger Warnings : This is a story told from Lucifer's point of view, so he often thinks about things that aren't at all nice, such as possibly raping a woman, or killing people, etc. It's mostly just thoughts, but be aware of them. Attempted suicide. My Thoughts : I'm still trying to make sense of this piece. The book isn't much about anything but the journey, Lucifer's experiences spending time in a mortal form and how he spends that time, his thoughts on various things, and his determination to write a book that will once and for all set things straight and tell the story from his point of view. As such, it tends to be rambling, wandering from topic to topic (often self-consciously so), and somewhat disjointed. It will not be for everyone, that is for sure, but I found I rather enjoyed it. Lucifer has a sort of wry voice that I found appealing (when he wasn't thinking appalling things), and his descriptions of the things around him made me see things in a new light. I mean, just imagine that you've spent all this time immaterial and suddenly you're in the material world, feeling, smelling, hearing, seeing... it would be overwhelming. I think the author did a good job of portraying that idea. The one problem I had with this is that everything is left up in the air. What happens with Lucifer? I know I\u201dd like to know. That wasn't enough to detract from the story, though; it just left me with burning questions that I wanted answered. If this sounds like the sort of thing that would appeal to you, be sure to check this book out. Disclosure : I purchased this e-book for myself . All opinions are my own. Synopsis : The Prince of Darkness has been given one last shot at redemption, provided he can live out a reasonably blameless life on earth. Highly sceptical, naturally, the Old Dealmaker negotiates a trial period\u2014a summer holiday in a human body, with all the delights of the flesh. The body, however, turns out to be that of Declan Gunn, a depressed writer living in Clerkenwell, interrupted in his bath mid-suicide. Ever the opportunist, and with his main scheme bubbling in the background, Luce takes the chance to tap out a few thoughts\u2014to straighten the biblical record, to celebrate his favourite achievements, to let us know just what it's like being him. Neither living nor explaining turns out to be as easy as it looks. Beset by distractions, miscalculations and all the natural shocks that flesh is heir to, the Father of Lies slowly begins to learn what it's like being us. ...more \"I, Lucifer\" is kind of what \"Screwtape Letters\" would have been if C.S. Lewis hadn't been so afraid of using profanity, making poop jokes, and talking about his erectile dysfunction. In both, they give us a completely different picture of what temptation is really all about. Subtlety. \"I, Lucifer\" has complex prose which is what makes Duncan's sometimes middle school humor unique. It is also responsible for making the book difficult to read despite its short length and big print. Also difficult \"I, Lucifer\" is kind of what \"Screwtape Letters\" would have been if C.S. Lewis hadn't been so afraid of using profanity, making poop jokes, and talking about his erectile dysfunction. In both, they give us a completely different picture of what temptation is really all about. Subtlety. \"I, Lucifer\" has complex prose which is what makes Duncan's sometimes middle school humor unique. It is also responsible for making the book difficult to read despite its short length and big print. Also difficult to read were the long internal monologues that Duncan seems to have an affinity for. Seems kind of silly to say, but Satan needed a buddy to bounce his thoughts off of. But a lot of this book was genius. I laughed at almost every joke Duncan made. The passage about Lucifer wondering what his identity would be without God was absolutely beautiful. I read it several times. This isn't a book that I'd recommend to everyone, but I'll definitely tell my friends who don't mind deep thinking and quips about satanic masturbation. ...more The premise of the book is interesting, of course: the Devil, fallen angel Lucifer himself, gets a chance to live on Earth as a human for one month. And it would have been good, I believe, if the first-person narrative didn't dwindle into long rants and digressions of infinite tedium. Lucifer talks in circles and tries to play with words in a means to be clever, but just comes off as boring instead. The only relevant and cohesive parts of the book were those in which Satan tells the famous bible The premise of the book is interesting, of course: the Devil, fallen angel Lucifer himself, gets a chance to live on Earth as a human for one month. And it would have been good, I believe, if the first-person narrative didn't dwindle into long rants and digressions of infinite tedium. Lucifer talks in circles and tries to play with words in a means to be clever, but just comes off as boring instead. The only relevant and cohesive parts of the book were those in which Satan tells the famous bible stories from his point of view: how he got Eve to take a bite out of that apple, what his role was in the crucifixion. However, these parts were mired by the absolutely boring and horrendous sections of his \"Earth time\" - I can't even describe how often I wanted to give up on these parts, and how his voice, in my head, turned so smarmy - the cleverness of the retellings went down the drain in the incessant and unintelligent ramblings of his attempt at humanity. Nonsense. Wow, this book made me really mad. ...more Okay, truth be told I hated this book and would have put it down after the first 10 pages if it wasn't my book club's selection. A very difficult read. Disturbing - well, you know, Lucifer just isn't a very nic guy. Some really interesting takes on the Garden of Eden and the \"fall\" though. And it was interesting to read of his appreciation (and our lack) of everyday things like smells and colors... Still... I wouldn't recommend it to anyone I know! The premise has been done before, certainly- the Devil telling his side of the story. Still, the review I read made me want to check it out, so I did. I'm very glad I did so. Lucifer gets his chance at redemption, but as part of the deal, he must live as a mortal for a time. Instead of some great and powerful person, he gets put in the body of a writer whose life had gone so badly he was committing suicide when Lucifer ended up inside him. To no great surprise, Lucifer does NOT end up living the The premise has been done before, certainly- the Devil telling his side of the story. Still, the review I read made me want to check it out, so I did. I'm very glad I did so. Lucifer gets his chance at redemption, but as part of the deal, he must live as a mortal for a time. Instead of some great and powerful person, he gets put in the body of a writer whose life had gone so badly he was committing suicide when Lucifer ended up inside him. To no great surprise, Lucifer does NOT end up living the good and virtuous life he promised. Among the things that do happen is the Devil learns what it's like to be mortal, and feel all the distractions of a human body. He takes the writer's career in a new direction, starting a screenplay about the war in Heaven, although obviously from the Lucifer's side. He also enjoys the mortal world in all its sinful richness. It's not the cleanest narrative. He wanders all over the place, and gets sidetracked telling his own story. But it's well worth it in my opinion. I was intrigued by the description, and greatly enjoyed the book. Strongly recommended, and I'll be reading more by this author before too much longer. ...more This book was absolutely hysterical, with a dry British humor that takes a little getting used to. It's NOT a story of Lucifer's redemption, nor is it for Christians who get easily offended. It's a romp through a hedonistic human life as seen through the devil's eyes. It starts with great promise and ends with a little less promise (it all has to end somewhere, right?), but the middle...the middle's a bit of an aimless slog where not much happens. That said, it has some really great moments -- and it was a bold enterprise, writing as Lucifer. He does it convincingly; the book has that very much in its favor. In fact, in terms of its writing, it's lovely -- gorgeous prose, displaying an excellent level of insight into humanity and shining a flashlight on that It starts with great promise and ends with a little less promise (it all has to end somewhere, right?), but the middle...the middle's a bit of an aimless slog where not much happens. That said, it has some really great moments -- and it was a bold enterprise, writing as Lucifer. He does it convincingly; the book has that very much in its favor. In fact, in terms of its writing, it's lovely -- gorgeous prose, displaying an excellent level of insight into humanity and shining a flashlight on that murkiness we call \"evil.\" The premise (Lucifer takes on the body of a human at the point of his suicide as a 30-day trial to see if he can live a good life and get back into God's graces -- which he vows, of course, not to do) is daring and engaging. It's the story, however, that is lacking. It's not that nothing happens, but that everyone seems stuck somehow -- and as if none of the characters do much when Lucifer isn't around. Bottom line: If it were possible to give half-stars, I'd give this one a solid 3.5: definitely memorable and good enough to recommend, but not life-changing; well worth it for the premise, prose, insight, and maybe even the storytelling, the unfolding -- but less so the plot; and definitely good enough that I've picked up a copy of his Death of an Ordinary Man just so I can spend a little more time with this author. ETA: Just found this lovely essay by Mr. Duncan, which I heartily recommend to the reader curious about his style. It's a short, autobiographical piece -- one that gives me a bit of perspective on I, Lucifer that makes me like the book a bit more. ...more Lucifer gets an offer from God. A chance at redemption, a chance to return home. But here's the catch, he has to live in the body of a mortal of God's choosing. Hilarity ensues. Well, sort of. I found Glen Duncan's Lucifer to be funny, charming, repelling at times, but always honest, and surprisingly sensitive. I loved this book. I put it down for two weeks because I didn't want to finish it. Duncan has a sense of humor that is really difficult for me to resist, he's sarcastic, but not annoyingl Lucifer gets an offer from God. A chance at redemption, a chance to return home. But here's the catch, he has to live in the body of a mortal of God's choosing. Hilarity ensues. Well, sort of. I found Glen Duncan's Lucifer to be funny, charming, repelling at times, but always honest, and surprisingly sensitive. I loved this book. I put it down for two weeks because I didn't want to finish it. Duncan has a sense of humor that is really difficult for me to resist, he's sarcastic, but not annoyingly so. There is a vulnerability to the story that makes it really work. Lucifer lives in constant pain. We learn later why this pain exists, as we learn why he does the things that he does. What it is that keeps him going? Is it really that he hates humanity all that much? A clue: It isn't that primitive. Duncan is a master with words. He shifts from different types of voices of consciousness from Lucifer's point of view as he writes, which I can relate to when I have different thoughts in my head about something. The mind seems to split into countless aspects as it tries to look at a subject or problem from every possible angle. Duncan's language and his ability to sum up the human condition, both from points of despair, to the pleasures that we take for granted is impressive. Duncan's Lucifer is charming, easy to love, he pours us a drink, smiles in a way that makes us think that this is alright, we could fall in love with him, we've got it all figured out, evil isn't really evil is it? And then he spews horror all over our laps. There were a few times that I needed to put the book down because I felt like I'd want to vomit. Glen Duncan does all of this without resorting to gore, or cheap literature tricks. He simply is one hell of a storyteller (pun there. ) Duncan makes a few great points about what it means to be an author and all the pretension and ego that exists in the world of writing. He also addresses the misogyny that exists in male writing and how it reflects the thirst and pornographic interest in violence towards women. Duncan doesn't come off as self righteous when he highlights these points, and he doesn't seem to exclude himself from the very group that he's criticizing at all. If anything he goes out of his way to smear himself with the shit that he hates to look at. I, Lucifer seems to be a work of self reflection. The protagonist's name Declan Gunn is an anagram of Duncan's name. He spares him no kindness in describing him, his life or his flaws. He's nailing him to the wall, while Lucifer self examines his own existence, along with Gunn's. Here is the comparison of the lower mind versus the higher mind. Where one lives purely on one level, it's the other that examines the life and motivations of the individual, as it tries to find it's meaning in the cosmic. There is no salvation here. Not in the sense that the religious might seek it. For the prodigal children, salvation means an entirely different thing. It cannot be given by the system or the parents that we had to leave in order to seek our own truths. It ends on a triumphant note nonetheless. Sort of. All triumphs are bittersweet. ...more All hail seitan! Oh, wait, that line is for my review of a vegetarian cookbook. I, Lucifer is a little bit of a treatise on how we'd do exactly the same things Satan has done if we were in his position. And it was pretty damn convincing: \"The idea of spending eternity with nothing to do except praise God is utterly unappealing. You'd be catatonic after and hour. Heaven's a swiz because to get in you have to leave yourself outside. You can't blame me because - now do please be honest with yourself All hail seitan! Oh, wait, that line is for my review of a vegetarian cookbook. I, Lucifer is a little bit of a treatise on how we'd do exactly the same things Satan has done if we were in his position. And it was pretty damn convincing: \"The idea of spending eternity with nothing to do except praise God is utterly unappealing. You'd be catatonic after and hour. Heaven's a swiz because to get in you have to leave yourself outside. You can't blame me because - now do please be honest with yourself for once - you'd have left too.\" And it's interesting to think just how much Lucifer embodies honesty, in a strange way. He's honest about his feelings, his boredom, his ambition, and he doesn't sugar coat anything. In this book, Lucifer's original sin was just daring to think of himself as himself . Coming from a very individualistic society, I can't imagine doing things any other way, so I was on his side for most of the book. Not to say that it didn't have some problems... The problems I had with the book were that the author was going at this so full-throttle with his thoughts that occasionally it rang false (example, his Elton John vendetta got really old)- but you have to expect that when you put yourself out there like this. He was writing from the point of view of Satan, for Chrissakes. But you have to admire the author's style. Wow. The absolute best parts were the retelling of the Garden of Eden/Crucifixion/War in Heaven from his point of view. The retellings were brilliant! I'm a stone-cold naturalist, so this supernatural mumbo-jumbo doesn't sound logical to me, but it all makes a helluva lot more sense than the original versions where we're supposed to side with God! Alternatively, the non-supernatural portions of the book where Luce interacts with humans as Declan Gunn are boring, and they get worse as the book progresses. Okay, to end with another precious quote. This was a description of Eve before she met up with Adam, living in her own part of the garden: \"[Eve:] had something Adam didn't. Curiosity. First step to growth - and if it wasn't for Eve's Adam would still be sitting by the side of the pool picking his nose and scratching his scalp, bamboozled by his own reflection. Off in her part of Eden, Eve hadn't bothered naming the animals. On the other hand she'd discovered how to milk some of them and how best to eat the eggs of others. She'd decided she wasn't overly keen on torrential rain and had built a shelter from bamboo and banana leaves, into which she'd retire when the heavens opened, having set out coconut shells to catch the rainwater with a view to saving herself the schlep down to the spring every time she wanted a drink. The only thing you won't be surprised to hear about is that she'd already domesticated a cat and called it Misty.\" ...more It took me several years to finish this book. No exaggeration in that. Several years. I picked it up, I started it, got about one-quarter of the way done with it and put it down again only to repeat that process two more times. Why? I am not sure. The premise was not a new one, but the telling seemed compelling. It opens with Lucifer (our protagonist?) telling you, the reader, of some of the earthly delights/things that he must have had a hand in along with various twists on his name. I hear in my head It took me several years to finish this book. No exaggeration in that. Several years. I picked it up, I started it, got about one-quarter of the way done with it and put it down again only to repeat that process two more times. Why? I am not sure. The premise was not a new one, but the telling seemed compelling. It opens with Lucifer (our protagonist?) telling you, the reader, of some of the earthly delights/things that he must have had a hand in along with various twists on his name. I hear in my head a new narrator borne as the lovechild of Tim Curry and Nathan Lane as I read. It reads like a play. I could see as I read Lucifer strutting up and down a stage telling his tale. My initial take is, \"This author has an amazing command of language. Wow, I am so excited to read this!\" Problem is, each time, that excitement waned. Duncan's punctuation and grammar give pause, but I found myself slogging through this thing so many times and then I realized-I don't care. I just don't care. Why? This character, Lucifer, who is so electric is, well...boring. I had not realized that this was why I did not care until recently reading a well-written review of this book by Jeffrey Keeten, but there it was in black and white. Boring. I thought I was supposed to like the level of detail and the biting wit given to Lucifer. I thought I would be entranced deep in lush history and descriptive metaphor, but I found myself bored and the writer had sinned against me in this. Self-indulgent, narcissistic, and long-winded. Really, Duncan has an amazing way with words and I would actually suggest one read the first 15 pages just on a lark, but I cannot recommend a full read. Keeten and others have noted \"The Last Werewolf\" by the same author as being quite good so I will seek that out and hope that Duncan reedems himself there. No whiz bang here. 2.5 stars. ...more I loved this book, but I admit it is certainly not for everybody. It absolutely drips with satire. In this book we hear Lucifer's side of the story about everything from his fall to what happened in the Garden of Eden and even about the crucifiction. If you are easily offended about religious matters then this is definitely not the book for you. However, for those of you who are not this is a fun read. It has humor, sadness, philosophy, and ways of looking at things that I had not thought about I loved this book, but I admit it is certainly not for everybody. It absolutely drips with satire. In this book we hear Lucifer's side of the story about everything from his fall to what happened in the Garden of Eden and even about the crucifiction. If you are easily offended about religious matters then this is definitely not the book for you. However, for those of you who are not this is a fun read. It has humor, sadness, philosophy, and ways of looking at things that I had not thought about (and many that I had but would never say outloud). I'm glad I took the time to hear Lucifer's side of things because it was difinitely a wild ride. ...more First-person Lucifer, and all I could hear was Al Pacino's voice... witty, outrageous, fabulous turns of phrase... Cette histoire est une chouette surprise, mais un peu d\u00e9cevante sur la fin. Comme le titre l'indique, elle nous raconte donc la vie de Lucifer, d'une fa\u00e7on autobiographique assez int\u00e9ressante. En effet, il poss\u00e8de temporairement le corps d'un \u00e9crivain rat\u00e9, Declan Gunn, et utilise le talent de cet auteur pour nous raconter, sans interm\u00e9diaire, sa vision de la Bible. On a donc droit \u00e0 des passages assez ironiquement dr\u00f4les, comme la cr\u00e9ation, Adam et Eve, ou franchement comiques (sa remarque \u00e0 J\u00e9s Cette histoire est une chouette surprise, mais un peu d\u00e9cevante sur la fin. Comme le titre l'indique, elle nous raconte donc la vie de Lucifer, d'une fa\u00e7on autobiographique assez int\u00e9ressante. En effet, il poss\u00e8de temporairement le corps d'un \u00e9crivain rat\u00e9, Declan Gunn, et utilise le talent de cet auteur pour nous raconter, sans interm\u00e9diaire, sa vision de la Bible. On a donc droit \u00e0 des passages assez ironiquement dr\u00f4les, comme la cr\u00e9ation, Adam et Eve, ou franchement comiques (sa remarque \u00e0 J\u00e9sus juste avant la crucifixion m'a vraiment bien fait rire). On a \u00e9galement droit \u00e0 des sc\u00e8nes moins dr\u00f4les, voire franchement p\u00e9nibles. Je pense par exemple \u00e0 un proc\u00e8s en sorcellerie qui m'a paru \u00e0 la limite du soutenable. Si il n'y avait que \u00e7a, ce serait en r\u00e9alit\u00e9 assez p\u00e9nible. Heureusement, cette histoire n'est racont\u00e9e que pour illustrer les aventures actuelles de Declan/Lucifer. En effet, en plus de nous raconter la bible, ce dernier tente de monter un film digne de figurer au panth\u00e9on des films irr\u00e9alisables : l'histoire de la chute de Lucifer. Ca nous plonge \u00e9videment dans le milieu du cin\u00e9ma, de ses r\u00e9alisateurs, producteurs, et autres agents divers, tous plus path\u00e9tiques les uns que les autres. Bon, et en bonus, parce que deux r\u00e9cits parall\u00e8les, \u00e7a n'est pas assez, la vie du \"vrai\" Declan infuse \u00e9galement l'\u00e2me de Lucifer pour le pousser dans directions parfois inattendues, tandis que ce m\u00eame Lucifer ets absolument fascin\u00e9 par la richesse de notre environnement, une richesse \u00e0 laquelle il n'a pas acc\u00e8s sans incarnation mat\u00e9rielle. En fait, \u00e7a n'a l'air de rien, mais c'est ce dernier aspect du roman qui a le plus grand impact sur la lecture. En effet, Lucifer est volontiers lyrique, et se laisse aller sans probl\u00e8me aux digressions les plus improbables, ce qui fait qu'une sc\u00e8ne de cr\u00e9ation litt\u00e9raire se retrouve coup\u00e9e par la contemplation d'un coucher de soleil, tandis que le jugement de la sorci\u00e8re prend un poids d\u00e9mesur\u00e9 \u00e0 cause justement de la richesse des d\u00e9tails mat\u00e9riels : les odeurs, les sons, sans m\u00eame parler des textures, tout cela est d\u00e9taill\u00e9 avec un luxe, voire m\u00eame une luxure, qui se r\u00e9v\u00e8le n\u00e9cessaire pour acc\u00e9der au niveau sup\u00e9rieur de lecture. Parce qu'\u00e9videment, il y a un autre niveau, au-dela de tout ce bazar. Un autre niveau qui est une critique absolument stup\u00e9fiante de force dans sa critique du syst\u00e8me religieux chr\u00e9tien dans son ensemble. Je m'explique. Ce livre, qui donne pour une fois la parole \u00e0 l'ennemi de Dieu, nous montre bien que, de son point de vue, \u00e7a n'est pas lui le m\u00e9chant, il ne cherche pas tant notre chute que \u00e7a. Non. L'ordure, la vraie, c'est celle qui permet tout \u00e7a, en sachant qui plus est tout ce qui va d\u00e9couler de ses d\u00e9cisions. Evidement, parfois, Lucifer pousse les mortels vers le bas, parce que c'est son r\u00f4le dans la cr\u00e9ation. Mais l'a-t-il vraiment choisi, ou a-t-il, comme Eve, comme nous tous, \u00e9t\u00e9 manipul\u00e9 par le p\u00e8re \u00e9ternel ? Voil\u00e0 le second niveau de lecture. Et je dois dire que celui-l\u00e0 m'a fait un plaisir fou, tout en \u00e9tant d'ailleurs auto-critique : il y a \u00e0 un moment un passage ou Lucifer explique clairement qu'il est, dans notre t\u00eate, la voix qui dit \"ben ouais, c'est comme \u00e7a, tu croyais quoi\". Et tout ce texte n'est rien d'autre que la mat\u00e9rialisation de ce concept : tu croyais que Dieu n'\u00e9tait qu'amour ? Pauvre idiot. Voil\u00e0 le coeur m\u00eame de la tentation. C'est sacr\u00e9ment bien fait, tant conceptuellement que techniquement. Du coup, vous vous demandez quel d\u00e9faut peut avoir un tel r\u00e9cit ... Eh bien c'est simple : la fin. Parce que le concept est parfait, mais ne peut absolument pas supporter de conclusion satisfaisante. Rappelons le concept pour ceux qui n'ont pas lu le bouquin (oui, c'est un spoiler) : Dieu offre \u00e0 Lucifer la r\u00e9demption sous forme humaine, si il accepte de mener toute une vie dans le corps d'un humain. Lucifer, lui, veut bien essayer trente jours. Et il se rend \u00e9videment compte pendant ces trente jours que la vie d'humain a de bons c\u00f4t\u00e9s. Du coup, le dilemne est : que faire \u00e0 la fin de la p\u00e9riode d'essai ? Aucun des deux choix ne rendra pleinement justice \u00e0 la duplicit\u00e9 de celui qui est le malin. Du coup, forc\u00e9ment, la conclusion de ce roman ne peut qu'\u00eatre d\u00e9cevante. Et elle l'est : \u00e0 partir du moment o\u00f9 Lucifer rencontre Rapha\u00ebl, le r\u00e9cit se d\u00e9lite irr\u00e9m\u00e9diablement. Et c'est triste. Mon conseil serait donc : lisez-le si vous supportez une fin d\u00e9cevante, parce que le reste du roman est absolument g\u00e9nial et ... j'ose le dire ... jubilatoire. En revanche, si vous aimez les chutes bien travaill\u00e9es, ne le lisez pas. Sachez toutefois que, pour ma part, j'ai beaucoup aim\u00e9. ...more I found this both mind-blowing and underwhelming. On one hand, Duncan's writing is as witty and lyrical and engaging as ever, and this is what elevates the book beyond the interesting conceit of Lucifer telling us a story - his side of the story, with multiple asides about various historical characters and the nature of God, the Fall etc - but that doesn't mean it never gets tedious or bogged down in its own solipsistic self-awareness. But in this I think Duncan's choice is deliberate. The style I found this both mind-blowing and underwhelming. On one hand, Duncan's writing is as witty and lyrical and engaging as ever, and this is what elevates the book beyond the interesting conceit of Lucifer telling us a story - his side of the story, with multiple asides about various historical characters and the nature of God, the Fall etc - but that doesn't mean it never gets tedious or bogged down in its own solipsistic self-awareness. But in this I think Duncan's choice is deliberate. The style - Lucifer's style, with his constant tangents and italicisms(??) - is petulent and flamboyant and exuberant and gratuitous and I'm sure many other adjectively colourful terms, but it works because it perfectly reflects the character telling the story. I feel like my being underwhelmed at times is probably my fault for missing the point; the directions Duncan takes the narrative at times are unconventional. While some of the diversions with certain historical figures can be a distraction I wanted to rush through to get back to the main story, it's his work with the human characters that really shines, especially Lucifer's interactions with his host Declan Gunn's (see what he did there) female acquaintances. His dialogue is beautifully human and his observations of body language just exquisite. Speaking of exquisite, the descriptions of London and Lucifer's experience of abosrbing all this - the smells especially, the physical sensations - are some of the best I've read in a book, but then this kind of thing seems to come easily to Duncan, which for him has become a bit of a trademark. This is, however, my least favourite Glen Duncan I've read so far. The Killing Lessons was one of my favourite books of the year and has a level of narrative sophistication and depth of character that I, Lucifer cannot match. However, the latter does work as much more than the gimmicky publicity stunt of a novel I thought it might end up being, and there are so many passages I had to re-read again and again for their sheer beauty and/or ingenuity of language. In this respect Duncan is up there with Mieville at the top of the wordsmith ladder. ...more Humorous, sometimes crude, intelligent memoir from the man himself: Lucifer! Bogs down with large words and philosophical bents in some places, but very worth trudging through. Britain-speak abounds, also, so at times I just didn't know what Lucifer was talking about. Loved the anagram for Lucifer's possessed man's name. Very much worth the read. Best opening paragraph ever written and, honestly, nothing really does honk like a dog's paw. I, Lucifer is the re-telling of the Bible, in Lucifer's own words. Here we learn exactly what the Devil had been thinking, why he fell from grace and what he's planning on doing. Well the latter not so much, given that he is given an offer that he really doesn't want to refuse, one month in a mortal body to see if he can be forgiven for all his past crimes. To be honest I think every read forgets that important point, that Lucifer is meant to be trying to get forgiveness and to return to his place I, Lucifer is the re-telling of the Bible, in Lucifer's own words. Here we learn exactly what the Devil had been thinking, why he fell from grace and what he's planning on doing. Well the latter not so much, given that he is given an offer that he really doesn't want to refuse, one month in a mortal body to see if he can be forgiven for all his past crimes. To be honest I think every read forgets that important point, that Lucifer is meant to be trying to get forgiveness and to return to his place by God - although Lucifer himself really doesn't want forgiveness nor to return to his former place by God, he's fine where he is, sort of. Here Lucifer inhibits the body of a writer, one who is rather scrawny and isn't exactly to Lucifer's personal tastes, however a body is a body and Lucifer finds himself rather enchanted by the mortal way, seeing sights he never could, either as an angel or a demon. Once he has overcome his wonder of the world - although to be honest it never really goes exactly - he begins a quest to get Gun some money to live his life properly. We also learn through the book exactly what Lucifer had been doing, tempting Eve was pretty easy considering Adam, tempting Jesus would have been easier had God not gotten in his way and essentially cheated. Also a big question was raised, how did Lucifer get into the Garden of Eden? How did God fail to notice him? We also see Lucifer's interactions with a few of the well known Angel's, although the one that really confused things at the end was Raphael - it wasn't completely clear to me what was going. Character wise Lucifer was a rather interesting and witty character, you begin to understand him and why he went to far to gain his freedom, essentially his own independence away from God; although no one could really call him a good guy, even he doesn't think so. Which was another intersting aspect to his character, how he hates doing what he does, but he has to do it, because of the balance between good and evil. The rest of the character's were more minor than anything else, to give Lucifer a bit of interaction and see how he gets on with other's, Harriet was the most interesting one considering that Lucifer appreciates her and that she would be down with his lot when her time came. Violet was okay, but really rather bland, same with Penelope... or was it Phoebe? There was minor incidents involving characters we'd never see again in the book which was rather interesting as well. Could the book have been a bit stronger? Probably, it came to a head near the end when it felt rather... not rushed but it did feel a bit meh. That could very well be me though and I did want to read so much more about Lucifer and his acts within history and the bible, although it was only the really main stages that we learned about. It's a pretty good read and a book I've been wanting to read for a while now, it didn't disappoint! ...more This book is by far one of the best reads I've had in a long while and is top of my list in supernatural fiction. Reading it gives me the angelology trip I've been craving for so long. The narration is beyond clever (and almost ridiculously colorful), the amount of thought and wit put behind Lucifer's feelings and reactions is wonderful, and it really makes me reflect on how much I, as a human with a physical body in this physical world of senses and smells and pleasures, take for granted. This This book is by far one of the best reads I've had in a long while and is top of my list in supernatural fiction. Reading it gives me the angelology trip I've been craving for so long. The narration is beyond clever (and almost ridiculously colorful), the amount of thought and wit put behind Lucifer's feelings and reactions is wonderful, and it really makes me reflect on how much I, as a human with a physical body in this physical world of senses and smells and pleasures, take for granted. This book made me reflect about quite a lot; the concept of evil, the human condition, what came Before, and the big \"Why.\" I enjoyed a Lucifer character that one could not sympathize for very easily. He was spoiled, arrogant, and beyond prideful- as one would expect from His Satanic Majesty. (may I also mention Glen's beautiful way with titles? Shivers.) Yet by the end of the book, I was rooting for Lucifer to make his choice and all in all wanted nothing but the best for him. A happy(ish) ending for the devil, huh. Glen illustrated Lucifer's angelic traits nicely through the narration, which I've seen some reviewers criticizes as \"all over the place\" and a bit \"ADHD.\" Which, to tell the truth, it was. But I thought it was perfect that way. To me there was no better way to narrate a being who has lived for a millennia, has seen and heard everything, has watched human-kind since their first steps and now for the first time has a physical body he can do as he pleases with for 30 days. I would think Lucifer would be all over the place. I expect that to make up for the lack of lustre any human language could communicate compare to angelspeak, he would be almost prattling on half the time. This is a character that I would not want to meet in person, but would definitely like to observe from afar. Excellent read. ...more Ouch. Ouch ouch ouch. A very clever book, perhaps a bit beyond me, but also incredibly painful, in two senses. Firstly, the usual way; empathising with the character, which is masterfully done in this case. Lucifer is intensely dislikeable and yet somehow we are given so much of an insight into his mind, his personality, his very existence that the fictitious nature of that aspect of the book's theology is completely forgotten. My heart aches for him, despite the fact that I simultaneously - and Ouch. Ouch ouch ouch. A very clever book, perhaps a bit beyond me, but also incredibly painful, in two senses. Firstly, the usual way; empathising with the character, which is masterfully done in this case. Lucifer is intensely dislikeable and yet somehow we are given so much of an insight into his mind, his personality, his very existence that the fictitious nature of that aspect of the book's theology is completely forgotten. My heart aches for him, despite the fact that I simultaneously - and regretfully - despise his character. More than that, it inspired pity and frustration without boredom and revulsion for the story, something I have rarely encountered. In fact, though I found myself miserable by the end, I can't help but like it. Secondly, it made me question myself. Though presented in a slightly confusing though very intelligent manner (I've always been a sucker for satire and breaking down the fourth wall as an emotive device, and this is a fine example of both of those things) it raised points that span my mind off-centre. Single sentences, seemingly insubstantial, had me feeling sick to the stomach, questioning humanity as a species and my role within it. It is rare to find a book that makes your heart beat faster in your chest, but this was one of them. I reiterate; OUCH. I'm glad that it hurt though, in a perverse kind of way. It made it more... real. You can't help but admire that. It has changed the way I see myself and our world, and isn't that one of the reasons we read literature in the first place? ...more [actually a 4.5 star rating] A clever, well written story told by Lucifer (with a bit by Raphael) as he spends a month in the human form of Declan Gunn, a writer, who has attempted to commit suicide. I probably understood only a modest portion of the many cultural references that, no doubt, add lots of texture to this book for readers who 'get them'. There are some really great ideas developed. Creation was the separation of Old Time and New Time. Old Time measured the motion of spirits while New [actually a 4.5 star rating] A clever, well written story told by Lucifer (with a bit by Raphael) as he spends a month in the human form of Declan Gunn, a writer, who has attempted to commit suicide. I probably understood only a modest portion of the many cultural references that, no doubt, add lots of texture to this book for readers who 'get them'. There are some really great ideas developed. Creation was the separation of Old Time and New Time. Old Time measured the motion of spirits while New Time measures the motion of bodies and 'started mincing everything up into centuries and nanoseconds, making everyone feel exhausted the whole time'. The idea of confining one's self (spirit) into a body requires a strong mind 'drawing form around itself in a meaty cloak'. The narrator notes that he finds it easy to lead Catholics astray, because they feel guilty about minor transgressions and so progress to larger, serious crimes 'by getting them used to doing the thing that makes them feeling guilty'. Alternative interpretations of the stories of the Garden of Eden, the creation of Adam and Eve and the fall from grace and Lucifer's departure from heaven were all presented. I was grateful that I live at a time where I could read these alternatives and think about the various ideas they included. I'm also appreciative of the friend who brought this book to my attention. ...more Why does nobody focus in their reviews on the the character, Lucifer as he portrays himself, a bored, brilliant, erudite, classy and clever thing with realms of chutzpah and a jaded, sardonic confidence? This is why this book is as important as it is to me. And when I hunt through the reviews to find more like it, I'm really looking for that chutzpah, that clarity, that past-it sense of loss. None of this other novels have it. The other thing I never hear about in reviews of I, Lucifer that I th Why does nobody focus in their reviews on the the character, Lucifer as he portrays himself, a bored, brilliant, erudite, classy and clever thing with realms of chutzpah and a jaded, sardonic confidence? This is why this book is as important as it is to me. And when I hunt through the reviews to find more like it, I'm really looking for that chutzpah, that clarity, that past-it sense of loss. None of this other novels have it. The other thing I never hear about in reviews of I, Lucifer that I think gives this book it's meaningfulness is the redemption he all but accepts. The scene after leaving Penelope's flat is riveting. With an act of surrendering his will he finds beneath it something vast, terrifying and (I think) very real. I took something from that. It meant something to me... So I'm still looking for more of this kind of character portrayed by this kind of author. I've found other quality anti-hero's in Chabon's Wonder Boys, in Gates's Jernigan, even in Rice's Lestat (when I was younger). Any ideas where else I could look? ...more<---C>Glen Duncan</---C>", "Title": "I, Lucifer"},
