{"Comments": "<+++>The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins: The Complete Novel</+++>Hmm, where to start with this one? Assiduous Quest is a good little read. For those who like the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, you will enjoy the setting of this novel. Although I suspect Faro is more historically accurate. I was utterly impressed with the writing itself in this novel. The prose flowed nicely,<---M> pacing was good</---M>, dialogue was character-appropriate and consistent, characters showed depth and growth, and the plot took quite a few meanders off its main path. My criticisms are that Hmm, where to start with this one? Assiduous Quest is a good little read. For those who like the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, you will enjoy the setting of this novel. Although I suspect Faro is more historically accurate. I was utterly impressed with the writing itself in this novel. The prose flowed nicely, pacing was good, dialogue was character-appropriate and consistent, characters showed depth and growth, and the plot took quite a few meanders off its main path. My criticisms are that it lacked action for the main character (If you've been following along, you know I really like action!), and the ending felt too abrupt. This novel absolutely built suspense, particularly toward the very end, but it was missing a bit of spark as far as the action of the main character was concerned. Many of the side characters experienced quite a bit of actual, physical action in their parts, but Mr. Tobias Hopkins was more of an internal character. Even during the climax of the novel, he didn't seem as involved physically as I would have liked. Now, there will be those of you that argue with me and say that Tobias is an internal kind of guy, and so him not experiencing a whole lot of running about, pistol shooting, sword chopping, etc.<---F> is absolutely within character</---F>. And you would be totally correct. Tobias is an introvert. I love that about him, but since he didn't engage in much action, things somehow fell a little flat with him. My only other quibble was that there was not nearly enough of this book! After things come to a head and the seamen arrive in the colonies, it's like we got in a very big hurry to wrap things up and have done with it! I wanted more -- more explanation, more time for things to play out with Toby's and John Fowler's separate ventures, I wanted to know what happened with Elizabeth, and I was not satisfied with how things went with Mr. Groot. It just all felt too rushed. Now, I consider that criticism a testament to how wonderful the rest of this novel was. I wonder, if perhaps the author would consider turning this into a series. I know I would keep reading to find out what happens to everyone. You made me feel invested in the characters, please don't leave me hanging like this. :) I would absolutely recommend this book to those who like historical fiction of the 17th century. Those who like Pirates , as I mentioned above, will enjoy being thrust back into the realm of Port Royal, Tortuga, and the colonies. And those who like a book with a bit of mystery and suspense will likely enjoy this very much. Another series that came to mind while reading this was Master and Commander . If you liked those books, you will probably like Assiduous Quest . I received a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review. ...more What a gloriously crafted novel! Mr. Faro's writing style mesmerized me throughout and completely transported me back to 17th century Jamaica. Although historical novels can often be drawn out, boring and the author so infatuated with historical accuracy that the story line becomes secondary to the historical references, this novel is so intriguing, mesmerizing and engaging that the reader cannot help but be drawn into it. The characters are colorful and engaging and often surprising! Love, mone What a gloriously crafted novel! Mr. Faro's writing style mesmerized me throughout and completely transported me back to 17th century Jamaica. Although historical novels can often be drawn out, boring and the author so infatuated with historical accuracy that the story line becomes secondary to the historical references, this novel is so intriguing, mesmerizing and engaging that the reader cannot help but be drawn into it. The characters are colorful and engaging and often surprising! Love, money, pirates, prostitutes, rejection, murder, forbidden love, prejudice, revenge..and I could go on an on! In some ways a simple story of a man's search for his father, acceptance and success but each of its characters provides another layer making the story intriguing and unforgettable and most certainly \"assiduous\" with the historical details and writing style. ...more I cannot praise this book highly enough. This book will transport you to the Jamaica of the late 17th century, making you feel you're really there. The story is gripping and keeps you guessing. Tobias Hopkins is looking for his father. I don't want to give away what he finds, but I can say that several other characters have an interest in his search. There is so much contained in this book, suspense, deception,trickery.The main characters are varied whilst the protagonist, Tobias, has an air of I cannot praise this book highly enough. This book will transport you to the Jamaica of the late 17th century, making you feel you're really there. The story is gripping and keeps you guessing. Tobias Hopkins is looking for his father. I don't want to give away what he finds, but I can say that several other characters have an interest in his search. There is so much contained in this book, suspense, deception,trickery.The main characters are varied whilst the protagonist, Tobias, has an air of mystery about him. He's an interesting and complex person, with many layers to his character. Without wanting to give anything away, there is a brilliant scene where one of Tobias' enemies gets his comeuppance. This book would make a brilliant film. ...more All my previous reviews have been so formal, but this book needs special treatment. Let me be informal with this awesome book which deals with life on and off sea where sailors are jovial. When I started reading this book, I had no idea what it is about. Soon I felt like it is all about gory on sea. The story is set on the backdrop of colonial life and piracy. The protagonist of this story, Tobias Hopkins aka Toby, a captain and master of ship by profession, seems to be too nice of a person, inno All my previous reviews have been so formal, but this book needs special treatment. Let me be informal with this awesome book which deals with life on and off sea where sailors are jovial. When I started reading this book, I had no idea what it is about. Soon I felt like it is all about gory on sea. The story is set on the backdrop of colonial life and piracy. The protagonist of this story, Tobias Hopkins aka Toby, a captain and master of ship by profession, seems to be too nice of a person, innocent, too principled and a prick too; all at a time. His fellow sailors seem to be normal and good sailors. As soon as they survive and reach land, everybody shows interest in Toby and he is worried about how strangers already know about him. His back story is that he is looking for his long lost father. Side by side, there is a range of murder cases which need to be solved. The story never loses its pace; never slows down. Even while writing this review I am amazed by the puzzle and its clue given in the letter written by Edward Hopkins to his family which Toby finally cracks. Of all the points, this puzzle and its clue give an authentic touch to the whole story. I am always disappointed if there are too many characters in the story. This story too has too many characters, but they all have a purpose and not thrown around just to make the story complicated. The mannerisms and language of each character described in the book fuel the reader\u2019s imagination to build the character in his or her mind. This shows that the author knows what he has written about. No overlapping s and confusions in the storyline. It is a fantastic book. Don\u2019t miss reading it. ...more In the opening paragraph, author <---A>James Faro</---A> poses a question that promises an adventure, and he doesn't disappoint. In a compelling tale of a young sea-faring captain named Tobais Hopkins who goes in search of his father, one can see clearly that Faro is well-versed in the language of the sea and all things nautical. Everything about his voice is authentic, written in the classical style, and his descriptions of the ships, the places, and the people draw you in and keep you turning the pages. Wi In the opening paragraph, author James Faro poses a question that promises an adventure, and he doesn't disappoint. In a compelling tale of a young sea-faring captain named Tobais Hopkins who goes in search of his father, one can see clearly that Faro is well-versed in the language of the sea and all things nautical. Everything about his voice is authentic, written in the classical style, and his descriptions of the ships, the places, and the people draw you in and keep you turning the pages. With a seventeenth century maritime history lesson (and a vocabulary lesson, to boot) interwoven throughout the narrative, Faro manages to keep it entertaining and never pedantic. A wonderful story complete with a believable hero, pirates, whores, stow-aways, hold-your-breath action, and secret codes, this book has it all. And as a word of caution, if a pirate ever offers to take you to \"the bathing pool,\" run like hell the opposite direction. ...more I received The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins by James Faro in exchange for an honest review. I don\u2019t often get a chance to read historical fiction, and know little about Jamaica in the late 17th century. So I was interested in reading this well paced adventure. The protagonist of this story, Tobias Hopkins, a.k.a. Toby, is a complex character, by turns likable and annoying. Overall, I really enjoyed the story, and it was a quick, easy read. Faro's understanding of the 18th century Caribbean is I received The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins by James Faro in exchange for an honest review. I don\u2019t often get a chance to read historical fiction, and know little about Jamaica in the late 17th century. So I was interested in reading this well paced adventure. The protagonist of this story, Tobias Hopkins, a.k.a. Toby, is a complex character, by turns likable and annoying. Overall, I really enjoyed the story, and it was a quick, easy read. Faro's understanding of the 18th century Caribbean is very thorough, and I think he researched his adventure novel well. ...more Let me begin by stating that the writing is flawless. The authenticity and the tone to the writing is exceptional and commendable! While reading, I could picture Jamaica and its inhabitants clearly. That's how wonderful and amazing James Faro's descriptions are! Honestly, when I first started reading the book, I had no idea what it was about. I just knew from the title that Tobias Hopkins was going on a quest. What kind of quest, I did not know. But because the writing was well executed, I kept Let me begin by stating that the writing is flawless. The authenticity and the tone to the writing is exceptional and commendable! While reading, I could picture Jamaica and its inhabitants clearly. That's how wonderful and amazing James Faro's descriptions are! Honestly, when I first started reading the book, I had no idea what it was about. I just knew from the title that Tobias Hopkins was going on a quest. What kind of quest, I did not know. But because the writing was well executed, I kept flipping the pages. The story is easy to follow. Boy goes in search of dad and makes some discoveries. I did not like Tobias (Toby) in the beginning - mainly because of his prejudice nature. Perhaps it was his age that made him react the way he did towards others. But that's not a bad thing. His character was believable! I started liking him more towards the end. especially during the ending :-) All the other characters were believable too - John, Magdalena, Edo (loved him the most), Mr G, Beatrice. The supporting characters were not thrown in for fun. They all had a role to play in the story, and that made everything seem real. Not only that, each character developed well throughout the book. Even the loud-mouth prisoner who calls out to Toby and John during their search for a new vessel added humour to the smooth sailing plot. Being that the storyline was set in the 17th century, I did not fail to notice to Mr Faro made his female characters powerful and feisty. That earned him an extra star! I've always enjoyed historical fiction, and it was clear to me that Mr Faro is a remarkable researcher. I can only imagine how much time he had put into his research to make this book a wonderful read. If you love quests and mysteries and thrillers, then this book is a must read! Doesn't matter if you are 10, 15, 25, 40 or even 70, you'll definitely enjoy reading this book. If Toby is going on another quest, I definitely want to join him and experience the 17th century sea life all over again! He should fall in love right, Mr Faro? Perhaps during his next quest :-) ...more A terrifically well-written novel that immediately immersed me within the 17th century Caribbean, with all the swashbuckling and adventure that brings to mind. The author writes in a lyrical, literary way that brings the story to life from the first page, plunging us into the sights, sounds and tastes of another world. Some might not be accustomed to (or like) a narrator who doesn\u2019t spell everything out, but for me it really adds to the colour and believability of a tale \u2013 one you\u2019re given fleet A terrifically well-written novel that immediately immersed me within the 17th century Caribbean, with all the swashbuckling and adventure that brings to mind. The author writes in a lyrical, literary way that brings the story to life from the first page, plunging us into the sights, sounds and tastes of another world. Some might not be accustomed to (or like) a narrator who doesn\u2019t spell everything out, but for me it really adds to the colour and believability of a tale \u2013 one you\u2019re given fleeting glimpses into. In fact, I\u2019d go so far to say that this author has crafted a compelling and distinctive \u2018voice\u2019; something not many are able to claim. I wouldn\u2019t normally opt for a historical novel about seafaring adventures, but I hugely enjoyed the story and the characters. I\u2019m also not hugely clued up on naval traditions, but from a land forces military perspective, a young man of the right class in the 17th century could certainly expect to be in command of older and more experienced men, such as the seadogs who follow the protagonist Hopkins \u2013 something questioned by other reviewers. I found him to be an interesting, appealing and principled character who was realistically tempered by the older, but lower class, John Fowler. The author has a tremendous ear for the stilted, precise dialogue of the 17th century (particularly when it is mixed with seafaring slang), as well as detail and original metaphor. Furthermore, as is frequently the case with more literary novels, it is often the quality of writing amongst all else that compels one to keep reading. To marry it with a well-drawn cast of characters, mystery, drama, intrigue, adventure and a vivid, vibrant world, is hugely commendable. ...more This story is set in the late 1600s with much of the story taking place in Jamaica. The author's extensive research into that era and culture shows in the wonderful descriptions that transport you to that time and let you live among the people. You see the corruption and decadence of the port city, and can smell its stench. The writing style as well makes you feel as if you are reading a classic novel from the past. I happen to be one who enjoys this type of writing, so I applaud the author for This story is set in the late 1600s with much of the story taking place in Jamaica. The author's extensive research into that era and culture shows in the wonderful descriptions that transport you to that time and let you live among the people. You see the corruption and decadence of the port city, and can smell its stench. The writing style as well makes you feel as if you are reading a classic novel from the past. I happen to be one who enjoys this type of writing, so I applaud the author for his style. Tobias Hopkins is the captain of an ill-fated vessel, captured by pirates. He and his crew suffer much before finally arriving in Jamaica. At times, the author uses much nautical language as would be expected, but for the most part it is easy to understand what is happening even for a land-lubber like me. The story of Tobias searching for his father is mingled with a series of brutal murders that have taken place over several years. The author skillfully weaves the two together in this intriguing novel. It kept me interested from start to finish. I can easily see a sequel to find out what one character says, \"That is another story.\" The characters are well developed. I found Tobias annoying in his attitude and reserve, but this flaw only made him more real. Even the minor characters have personalities. My favorite was a prisoner who called out to Tobias from his prison cell. This novel is certain to please people interested in nautical or historical stories. I highly recommend it. ...more Having just recently returned from Jamaica, I was interested to see that this book is partly set there during the 17th century. One of the strengths of the author is the way in which he makes you feel you are there, with the characters, you feel you're following in their footsteps.The detailed descriptions are very strong, and I particularly enjoyed the episodes set in Port Royal,in Jamaica. It's not easy to predict what's going to happen in this book, there are many twists and turns. Some excel Having just recently returned from Jamaica, I was interested to see that this book is partly set there during the 17th century. One of the strengths of the author is the way in which he makes you feel you are there, with the characters, you feel you're following in their footsteps.The detailed descriptions are very strong, and I particularly enjoyed the episodes set in Port Royal,in Jamaica. It's not easy to predict what's going to happen in this book, there are many twists and turns. Some excellent descriptive writing, the storm at sea for instance, and the ending of the book which I won't reveal. The attention to detail in this novel is outstanding and I imagine the author must have done a great deal of research. Historical fiction is not an easy genre to write but I think, an extremely important one. It's only by seeing how the world used to be, that we can really understand contemporary life. History teaches us lessons for the future and this novel draws the reader in and paints a vivid picture of life in the 17th century. If you only read one historical novel this year, make sure it's this one. ...more If you like swash-buckling adventures you are going to love this book. There is no doubt that the author\u2019s naval history provided him with the knowledge and experiences to bring this tale to light. Our hero is Tobias Hopkins, who we meet when he arrived in Jamaica to discover the truth about his missing father. After finding his father had been dead for six years, Tobias also discovers he has a half-brother. However, the adventures really begin when Toby receives clues about the possibility of an i If you like swash-buckling adventures you are going to love this book. There is no doubt that the author\u2019s naval history provided him with the knowledge and experiences to bring this tale to light. Our hero is Tobias Hopkins, who we meet when he arrived in Jamaica to discover the truth about his missing father. After finding his father had been dead for six years, Tobias also discovers he has a half-brother. However, the adventures really begin when Toby receives clues about the possibility of an inheritance. The sub-plot is used to weave a series of murders around Tobias\u2019 adventures and, without giving anything away, really adds to the value of this novel. James Faro\u2019s visually inspired language would enthuse any land-lover to set sail upon the rich and tempting seas. Give The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins a read \u2013 I\u2019m sure you want be sorry. ...more The author's passion for seafaring, tall ships, and trade shines throughout this page turning yarn of risk and reward on the high seas of the seventeenth century Caribbean. The compelling main character, Tobias Hopkins, is more of an innocent than a swashbuckler. He is young, puritanical, and over his head from the opening chapter until the final pages. It was both entertaining and fascinating to read and observe as the plot unfolded and he matured as both a ship's captain and a man. Detailed de The author's passion for seafaring, tall ships, and trade shines throughout this page turning yarn of risk and reward on the high seas of the seventeenth century Caribbean. The compelling main character, Tobias Hopkins, is more of an innocent than a swashbuckler. He is young, puritanical, and over his head from the opening chapter until the final pages. It was both entertaining and fascinating to read and observe as the plot unfolded and he matured as both a ship's captain and a man. Detailed descriptions of the characters, culture, and politics of the era add to the suspenseful flow. I recommend this book to students of history and lovers of a good seafarin' tale. ...more Some reviewers have been likening this novel to Pirates of the Caribbean, however I feel that it\u2019s far more similar in tone, pacing, and authenticity to Master and Commander. The story begins with a cannon bang that hooks the reader and drops them head first into a journey that does not disappoint. And I have to say it\u2019s impressive because my tastes ussualy run to detective novels and science fiction, not turn of the century sea faring tale, but good writing is good writing and this story\u2019s quit Some reviewers have been likening this novel to Pirates of the Caribbean, however I feel that it\u2019s far more similar in tone, pacing, and authenticity to Master and Commander. The story begins with a cannon bang that hooks the reader and drops them head first into a journey that does not disappoint. And I have to say it\u2019s impressive because my tastes ussualy run to detective novels and science fiction, not turn of the century sea faring tale, but good writing is good writing and this story\u2019s quite gripping. What I found most impressive was the authenticity of the milieu. I don\u2019t know much about the author, however he must\u2019ve done a tremendous amount of research into the era to paint such a realistic picture. From the sailing ships to the islands we\u2019re treated to realistic scenes, but that doesn\u2019t just stop at the descriptions. The motivations, the character goals, and especially the dialogue all reflect the time in which the story takes place. I think that\u2019s what\u2019s usually missing from a lot of indie author\u2019s books when they do period pieces. Like when a tribal chief from five hundred years ago says \u201che\u2019ll bleed out\u201d or a pirate says \u201cno problem\u201d will cause a seam within the story and pull the reader out, but where many have failed Mr. Faro has succeeded. I also like the characters. They had depth and were believable. Granted, I wish Tobias had been a bit more proactive in his 'quest', I still found his introspection interesting, and more importantly, steady throughout the tome. Besides, the supporting cast more than makes up for it. Thus I\u2019d recommend this for any genre fan, it's a novel that can keep anyone engaged with its solid storytelling. ...more The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a historical thriller set in and around Jamaica in the 17th century. It narrates the travails of the titular Toby as he engages with a colorful assortment of sailors, prostitutes, and pirates, all while chasing the buried treasure of his estranged father. There is much to like about The Assiduous Quest. The prose is clear and flows well, and the style transports the reader to the 17th-century setting of the novel. There were few false notes to this reader' The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a historical thriller set in and around Jamaica in the 17th century. It narrates the travails of the titular Toby as he engages with a colorful assortment of sailors, prostitutes, and pirates, all while chasing the buried treasure of his estranged father. There is much to like about The Assiduous Quest. The prose is clear and flows well, and the style transports the reader to the 17th-century setting of the novel. There were few false notes to this reader's ears. The author paints a vivid portrait of the Caribbean of that era, with well-utilized historical detail and excellent command of sailing concepts and terminology. A few of the characters feel stock, but on the whole there is a rich assortment of supporting players around Toby. The one flaw in the novel, and for me a significant one, was the straw-man nature of the main character. Throughout the novel, major plot points turn on Toby's stupidity, prejudice, or carelessness, incidents that could have been dispelled with a few words or actions that would have occurred to any reasonable person. That they did not occur to Toby, and repeatedly drove the plot towards contrived complication, became increasingly annoying over the course of the novel. It left me fairly disappointed with the plot. For those readers who don't mind this sort of contrivance, the novel will be an enjoyable read. ...more This book certainly lives up to its description as a \u201chistorical thriller.\u201d The writing is impressive \u2013 a bit formal, which makes it absolutely perfect for a story set in the 17th century. The writing itself (the author\u2019s word choices, sentence structure, etc.) adds so much to the book that I almost want to classify it as a character. Really well done. I loved the dialogue which seemed true and appropriate to each person. Also, I very much enjoyed the vivid descriptions of life on a ship and in J This book certainly lives up to its description as a \u201chistorical thriller.\u201d The writing is impressive \u2013 a bit formal, which makes it absolutely perfect for a story set in the 17th century. The writing itself (the author\u2019s word choices, sentence structure, etc.) adds so much to the book that I almost want to classify it as a character. Really well done. I loved the dialogue which seemed true and appropriate to each person. Also, I very much enjoyed the vivid descriptions of life on a ship and in Jamaica. The scenes absolutely come alive without having too much exposition. With prostitutes, murderers, pirates, mistresses, the characters are a lively and well conceived. My only complaint about the book is related to some of the characters themselves. The main character, Toby, seems a very proper, honorable fellow that I want very much to like, but I also want to know more about his past, his feelings about his dead mother, sisters and finally, father, how he feels about Sarah, or Elizabeth, etc. Also, while we are introduced to some spectacular characters in Elizabeth, Magdelena and Beatrice, I feel like I didn\u2019t get to see enough of them or learn enough about them. I guess, in the end, this says a lot about the quality of the writing, since I wanted more! This was a fun read. I felt absolutely plunged into each scene and the excitement of fights, storms, etc. I strongly recommend this book to anybody who enjoys a historical thriller. ...more I enjoyed this book of treasure, pirates and the high seas very much. James Faro sets the tone right from the start with a disaster aboard a ship, where the captain finds a missing arm and plucks a ring from one of the fingers to return to its owner. Now that's a pair of hardy seamen! The tale takes place in the Caribbean during a time when Europe was still colonizing the Americas. It has a wild west meets the islands feel, particularly in one town that's populated with bawdy saloons, sailors, pr I enjoyed this book of treasure, pirates and the high seas very much. James Faro sets the tone right from the start with a disaster aboard a ship, where the captain finds a missing arm and plucks a ring from one of the fingers to return to its owner. Now that's a pair of hardy seamen! The tale takes place in the Caribbean during a time when Europe was still colonizing the Americas. It has a wild west meets the islands feel, particularly in one town that's populated with bawdy saloons, sailors, prostitutes and other interesting characters. Toby is on the hunt for his long lost father. But his quest coincides with a mystery surrounding some gruesome murders and some super shady bad guys. As the story builds, it all comes together in a clash of forces. I like historical fiction a lot, and James Faro has a nice tone to his writing. He uses a nice, almost old-fashioned style, which suits the narrative very well. It draws you in so that you want to curl up and disappear into the world he's created. He clearly knows his stuff when it comes to boats and that was particularly enjoyable to read. All in all a great story that I think many readers will enjoy. A great tale to read in the cold winter months! Grab a copy and dream of warm, distant shores! I received a copy of this book in exchange for my honest opinion. All views are my own. ...more I really enjoyed this.I thought this might be heavy going as it's set several hundred years ago but the writing is clear and the story is easy to follow. The book is about Tobias Hopkins, a sea captain, who sets out to find his missing father. Now, I don't have any interest in ships or sailing and whenever I've been on a boat I've always been incredibly ill, but I found this book very readable and I enjoyed reading the ship scenes, especially when the character Beatrice, is on board. Beatrice ha I really enjoyed this.I thought this might be heavy going as it's set several hundred years ago but the writing is clear and the story is easy to follow. The book is about Tobias Hopkins, a sea captain, who sets out to find his missing father. Now, I don't have any interest in ships or sailing and whenever I've been on a boat I've always been incredibly ill, but I found this book very readable and I enjoyed reading the ship scenes, especially when the character Beatrice, is on board. Beatrice has to be my favourite character. She's brave, feisty and determined and is always taking risks. There is so much going on. There are some gruesome episodes with some quite graphic violence, but there is plenty of humour. I liked the episode where Tobias and John are searching for new recruits for the ship. I think Tobias is quite a lonely person. He has nightmares of his past and is a very troubled man. He's searching for answers or maybe, for some kind of peace. I loved Magdalena and La Bruma,her farmhouse,and when Tobias goes there, it's as though he's arrived home and can find peace. I like the way the author has created several very interesting and strong female characters. It really anoys me when I read a book with weak and helpless females! Nothing bad to say about this. All I can say is just go and read it! ...more This tale is a classic \u201cHero\u2019s Journey\u201d story, what Joseph Campbell refers to as \"mankind\u2019s one great story.\u201d All the archetypal components are here. The young sea captain, Tobias Hobias, undertakes a dangerous quest to Virginia, fraught with peril. In the process, the course of his life in changed forever as Tobias is required to 1) solve a series of perplexing mysteries, 2) advance his spiritual growth, and 3) ascend to his rightful role in life. Tobias is a sailor in the 17th century who is ha This tale is a classic \u201cHero\u2019s Journey\u201d story, what Joseph Campbell refers to as \"mankind\u2019s one great story.\u201d All the archetypal components are here. The young sea captain, Tobias Hobias, undertakes a dangerous quest to Virginia, fraught with peril. In the process, the course of his life in changed forever as Tobias is required to 1) solve a series of perplexing mysteries, 2) advance his spiritual growth, and 3) ascend to his rightful role in life. Tobias is a sailor in the 17th century who is haunted by dreadful memories from his past. He is strong and determined yet there is also an air of mystery about him. Tobias, his first mate John, and crew encounter a permeating sense of danger and foreboding as they unravel the mysteries that drive them relentlessly on. There is plenty of action and humor to keep us glued to the story and on the edge of our seats. ...more James Faro's portrayal of 17th century Jamaica in, The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a colorful picturesque narrative. Fargo brings the reader into the scenes with his well-crafted, easy flow writing. Through the pages of the book, I was transported to Jamaica as it were in the 17th century. I smelled the food, witnessed the beautiful scenery, the pain, the hurt, I experienced it all. What a quest for poor Toby. The author portrays him true to cast. Actually, the entire cast of characters James Faro's portrayal of 17th century Jamaica in, The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a colorful picturesque narrative. Fargo brings the reader into the scenes with his well-crafted, easy flow writing. Through the pages of the book, I was transported to Jamaica as it were in the 17th century. I smelled the food, witnessed the beautiful scenery, the pain, the hurt, I experienced it all. What a quest for poor Toby. The author portrays him true to cast. Actually, the entire cast of characters was well-developed, which adds to the authenticity of the story. What can I say, other than: The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins will keep you turning the pages until you come to the wonderful end. Brilliant! ...more James Faro is an impressive storyteller. His writing style is smooth and well-chosen to fit the story setting. His use of words adds authenticity to his narrative. Reading the story, I felt transported back in time to the 17th century Jamaica. The descriptions of the place are fascinating in their detail, vivid and colorful. The pace is brisk. The characters feel realistic and credible. The plot is well crafted, suspenseful, historically believable and endearing. Every single page holds interest James Faro is an impressive storyteller. His writing style is smooth and well-chosen to fit the story setting. His use of words adds authenticity to his narrative. Reading the story, I felt transported back in time to the 17th century Jamaica. The descriptions of the place are fascinating in their detail, vivid and colorful. The pace is brisk. The characters feel realistic and credible. The plot is well crafted, suspenseful, historically believable and endearing. Every single page holds interest and intrigue, making it a real page turner. For me the novel is a successful blend of historical fiction, adventure and mystery. I enjoyed reading it. ...more Being a fan of what's known as 'historical fiction' I was looking forward to reading this book, and I was not sorry I did. A well paced adventure, it takes the reader on one great adventure. The book was well written, and exposes you to a different time and place, where not everything was known, and finding out someone's true motives were a lot harder than today. This was a very very good read. I very much recommend it for fans of the genre, and even for those who aren't. It's the seventeenth century and the it's The Golden Age Of Piracy. The story is set in the Carribean, specifically Jamaica, specifically Port Royal. That's the same place that Blackbeard and his peers hung out, when they weren't out at sea, sinking merchant ships. I've heard so many pirate stories (one of my fave subjects) that it's nice to read a more mundane exploration of that same time period and area. Jamaica used to be a very rough place. This story effortlessly and thoroughly describes th It's the seventeenth century and the it's The Golden Age Of Piracy. The story is set in the Carribean, specifically Jamaica, specifically Port Royal. That's the same place that Blackbeard and his peers hung out, when they weren't out at sea, sinking merchant ships. I've heard so many pirate stories (one of my fave subjects) that it's nice to read a more mundane exploration of that same time period and area. Jamaica used to be a very rough place. This story effortlessly and thoroughly describes the swashbuckling fierceness of those times. It's a terribly thrilling, exciting, and interesting read. Tobias is a normal guy who keeps learning about life and all it's hardships. In that sense, it's a tough read because I like Tobias. I see a lot of myself in him. Just like that baby sea turtle, you just have to pick yourself up and keep going. This book is a great escape into one of my fave eras and places. I've heard many accounts of pirates in the Carribean, and it's terribly interesting to read a learned person's account to what he thought those days were like. Lots of research has gone into this book. It's a wealth of detail and intrigue that surpass any other same-era story I've read. ...more The quest of Tobias Hopkins is a personal one: to find his father who left England on a sea voyage and was not again heard from. Launched into the quest by tragic deaths of his family in a fire, he obtains a ship and sails to the West Indies in the 1670s. Tobias is first met as he battles to save his crew from pirates, eventually arriving in Jamaica after some rip-roaring battle scenes. There he follows clues about his father that lead to a plantation and step-family he never knew about and lear The quest of Tobias Hopkins is a personal one: to find his father who left England on a sea voyage and was not again heard from. Launched into the quest by tragic deaths of his family in a fire, he obtains a ship and sails to the West Indies in the 1670s. Tobias is first met as he battles to save his crew from pirates, eventually arriving in Jamaica after some rip-roaring battle scenes. There he follows clues about his father that lead to a plantation and step-family he never knew about and learning of the death of his father, who left a cryptic message that Toby deciphers pointing to a fortune his father had hidden. In pursuing the quest, Toby encounters a rowdy assortment of opportunists in a new land; some become his allies and others enemies after the hidden fortune. Scenes of life in tropical Caribbean towns of the period are pungent with exotic smells, sounds, appearance, and customs\u2014many unpredictable and violent. There are several edgy violent scenes, but not overly graphic. Descriptions of sailing, ships, and mariners are filled with details that only a knowledgeable seaman could write, giving authenticity and immersing the reader in the experience. The character Toby is both sympathetic and annoying, keeping his emotions guarded while showing courage and loyalty. His shipmates, women companions, and enemies are nicely drawn, although the Jamaican dialect given his step-mother and family makes cumbersome reading. There are some other spelling/grammar errors. The plot moves along steadily enough with twists that keep readers interested. A few themes are disconnected; the murders being investigated by police are loosely related to Toby and never well resolved, the woman in Boston (Sarah) is mentioned in letters but never encountered. The ending leaves readers suspended, with an important character (Beatrice) just disappearing while the revenge scene for the last villain (de Groot) stretches out too long. We get the impression Toby is returning to his plantation but are waiting to see \"where next this journey will lead him.\" Overall, an enjoyable action-adventure set in lusty seafaring locales in early colonial times. \"The Complete Book\" is a combination of three sections that can be read separately. It seems as if there should be a fourth section; the author has indicated that one is planned. I received a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more It starts with a shipwreck and privateers and then it gets really interesting. The Caribbean in the 17th century was a boisterous, much-disputed, violent place, where fortunes were made and lost overnight. This big, involved novel takes place mainly in Jamaica. The Tobias Hopkins of the title, is a young merchant captain who loses his vessel and hard-earned fortune on page 1 \u2013 and this is only the latest of his misadventures! Now, his challenges are to get another ship and eke out his depleted c It starts with a shipwreck and privateers and then it gets really interesting. The Caribbean in the 17th century was a boisterous, much-disputed, violent place, where fortunes were made and lost overnight. This big, involved novel takes place mainly in Jamaica. The Tobias Hopkins of the title, is a young merchant captain who loses his vessel and hard-earned fortune on page 1 \u2013 and this is only the latest of his misadventures! Now, his challenges are to get another ship and eke out his depleted crew, while also following up some clues to the whereabouts of his missing father. Meanwhile, Sergeant Smithson of the Port Royal militia is investigating a series of gruesome murders that span five years. The two stories proceed in parallel, unknown to each other, though they are, of course, connected. Toby is, frankly, a bit of a doofus: he\u2019s stiffly upright, aloof, self-preoccupied and often oblivious. Yet, he\u2019s oddly likeable in his consistent decency: he takes honour, loyalty and responsibility very seriously. And he does make some tentative personal contacts. We don\u2019t see very much of Smithson, but he makes an impression. The minor characters, including the villains, also ring true and have sufficient presence for their roles. It\u2019s an adventure story: we don\u2019t need profound personality studies. While my familiarity with the period is limited, I knew some of the facts mentioned. More importantly, the setting feels authentic. Details about the clothing, mores, weapons, place names, local lore - and especially the ships! \u2013 make a vivid, convincing background to the action. The language sounds right, though I noticed odd spelling in a few places, as if the text had been transcribed by someone unfamiliar with the words. There are a few scenes of sadistic violence, but the author doesn\u2019t dwell on them unduly. The action is well paced, with plenty of suspense. The climactic event is handled very deftly. The outcome is generally satisfactory. My only disappointment was with the denouement. The story seems to wind down rather abruptly: people we\u2019ve come to care simply disappear. Instead of the Groot scene at the end, I\u2019d have preferred a description of Toby\u2019s circumstances; instead of a 3-year elision, a chapter on his Jamaican enterprise, and another about the subsequent lives and relationships of the secondary actors. ...more The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins: the complete novel is by James Faro. It takes place on the island of Jamaica for the most part. The rest of the time it is on board ships. It takes place in the 1800\u2019s when pirates used the island as a stopping point. Merchantmen also used this port. The English were in control of the island after having taken it from the Spanish. Two plots unravel simultaneously as the story progresses. Their plots intertwine and then separate only to intertwine again and The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins: the complete novel is by James Faro. It takes place on the island of Jamaica for the most part. The rest of the time it is on board ships. It takes place in the 1800\u2019s when pirates used the island as a stopping point. Merchantmen also used this port. The English were in control of the island after having taken it from the Spanish. Two plots unravel simultaneously as the story progresses. Their plots intertwine and then separate only to intertwine again and again. Tobias Hopkins is originally from England; but after the notorious fire in London took the lives of his Mother and two sisters, he indentured himself to get to Maryland. He endured his indenture and eventually made enough of himself to purchase a ship to take him to find his Father who had been missing for years. His ship was taken by French pirates and used to capture and rape Spanish towns. Tobias and part of his crew eventually escaped and made their way to Jamaica where Tobias\u2019 father was last known to have lived. Will he be able to find his Father? Will he be able to get back to America? Meanwhile, three men have been murdering people for years and getting away with it. Sergeant Smithson, of the English militia, had been given the assignment to find the man or men who murdered a man named Cooper and his wife four years earlier. It was obvious they had been tortured. The case came up again because Captain Rogers, a retired English officer and a sugar merchant, and his valet were found tortured and murdered. As Smithson investigates, a couple of names come up in both investigations- Keach and Hopkins. Tobias Hopkins\u2019 Father had sent letters to both men and those letters were found in their lodgings. What does Tobias\u2019 Father have to do with both men? Evidently someone other than Sergeant Smithson wants to know very badly? Will justice prevail? I had a little bit of a hard time getting into the book and started to put it down several times; however, I had promised to read it so I persevered. By the third chapter, I was hooked and it turned out to be a very good book. I think the book is a little reminiscent of stories by Robert Louis Stevenson. There is something about the language used and the descriptions which hint of R.L. Stevenson. I encourage people to read this book . ...more The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a historic seafaring adventure set in the Caribbean. Its author thoroughly knows his subject. James Faro takes you back to 17th century Jamaica with details, descriptions, and dialogue that are so vivid and authentic, you\u2019ll swear he must have been a pirate of the Caribbean in a former life. Faro doesn\u2019t try to overly impress the reader with historic detail, but rather blends it artfully into the story, bringing it to life, giving it meaning. A series of The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins is a historic seafaring adventure set in the Caribbean. Its author thoroughly knows his subject. James Faro takes you back to 17th century Jamaica with details, descriptions, and dialogue that are so vivid and authentic, you\u2019ll swear he must have been a pirate of the Caribbean in a former life. Faro doesn\u2019t try to overly impress the reader with historic detail, but rather blends it artfully into the story, bringing it to life, giving it meaning. A series of unfortunate events takes Tobias Hopkins (Toby), a trader and ship\u2019s captain, to Jamaica, where Toby\u2019s ship is attacked during a trading run. As a result, he and his remaining men find temporary safe haven on another sailing vessel that\u2019s headed to Jamaica. It is on this ship where Toby hears a tale from a seedy, drunken sailor about his father. Toby hasn\u2019t seen his father since his dad took to the sea, leaving Toby and a young family back in England. Arriving in Jamaica, Toby hits the streets in search of his dad and to purchase another ship, hoping to take his crew back to their families. His path takes him to dingy hotels, bars, brothels and eventually to Magdalena, his father\u2019s former housekeeper and mother of his half-brother Eduardo. He learns from Magdalena that his father has been dead for several years. She also gives Toby a letter from his father, written to Toby and his family. The mysterious letter kicks off Toby\u2019s dangerous quest where James Faro continues to weave his tale of intrigue. Will Toby find fortune, or will evil find Toby? I am not typically a reader of historic fiction, but I was immediately captivated by James Faro\u2019s writing style. Because of my schedule, it took me longer than I wanted to read the book, but each time I came back to it, I didn\u2019t want to put it down, and you won\u2019t either. I received a copy of this novel in exchange for an unbiased review. I would have gladly paid for the entertainment it provided. ...more \u201cThe Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins\u201d by James Faro is a well told story that takes you back to the 17th century when sailors and adventures traveled the seas alongside pirates and marauders. Tobias Hopkins is the captain of a ship that is wrecked in the shallows of Jamaica which forces him to struggle in search of a new ship and the arduous task of rebuilding his crew. Hopkin\u2019s reason for traveling, which is the main theme of the story is to set up trade between Jamaica and the new colonies \u201cThe Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins\u201d by James Faro is a well told story that takes you back to the 17th century when sailors and adventures traveled the seas alongside pirates and marauders. Tobias Hopkins is the captain of a ship that is wrecked in the shallows of Jamaica which forces him to struggle in search of a new ship and the arduous task of rebuilding his crew. Hopkin\u2019s reason for traveling, which is the main theme of the story is to set up trade between Jamaica and the new colonies in North America and also to try and find some information about his father. To complement the main theme there are also ancillary stories that ride along and provide interesting action, suspense and mystery. Murders, finding unknown relatives and interesting behaviors of the towns folk all provide color to Mr. Faro\u2019s interesting and well developed world. Mr. Faro is also well versed in nautical engineering and jargon which makes our immersion into the story all the more interesting as well as accurate. Many times when I read a book, I find myself starting to skim the words as I start to lose interest. I can firmly say that this was not the case with \u201cThe Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins\u201d. I read every word to ensure that I was following the story for its underlying mystery and to better understand the dialog of the characters. The characters converse in old world and period correct dialog which can be a little (just a little) tough to follow but brings tons of realism to the atmosphere. It is evident that Mr. Faro processes the skills of a fine author to create such an interesting story and deliver it to us in a very colorful package. ...more XX The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins by James Faro was a gift the the author, James Faro. Thank you, Mr. Faro, for allowing me to read your work. Toby Hawkins is the young Master of a new ship, the Chesapeake, sailing into the Caribbean (Barbados) from Virginia in the late 1600's. The journey is in search of trading partners, but behind that fact, and unknown to any of the crew, Toby is searching for his father, missing since Tobias was a youth in London. It was a journey fraught with problem XX The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins by James Faro was a gift the the author, James Faro. Thank you, Mr. Faro, for allowing me to read your work. Toby Hawkins is the young Master of a new ship, the Chesapeake, sailing into the Caribbean (Barbados) from Virginia in the late 1600's. The journey is in search of trading partners, but behind that fact, and unknown to any of the crew, Toby is searching for his father, missing since Tobias was a youth in London. It was a journey fraught with problems, and ends with the sinking of the Chesapeake and the death of half of the crew when ship and crew become entangled in the war between France and England. Toby rallies, and spends time on the island of Jamaica with the surviving crew, looking to buy another ship in order to get his remaining men back home. While there, he encounters news of his father, and is able to follow rumors and vague tales to Spanish Town, where he finds a half brother and his Father's widow, only to find that his father died 6 years ago. The detail in this tale is extraordinary. The voice of the characters is very much right for time and place, the characters are fully developed and the scenery and background are well researched. I do hope there is to be a sequel? I was not able to share review on B&N.... ...more Faro's novel follows the life of a young sea faring businessman (Tobias Hopkins) set in a 17th century New World/Caribbean setting. The story is mainly focused on Toby's search for his father coupled with his efforts to recover from the unexpected loss of his ship. Toby bumps into a whole plethora of characters during his quest that range from the seedy workers/frequenters of local whorehouses, farmers, mystery relatives, seafarers etc etc. For me the real strength of the book was the author's a Faro's novel follows the life of a young sea faring businessman (Tobias Hopkins) set in a 17th century New World/Caribbean setting. The story is mainly focused on Toby's search for his father coupled with his efforts to recover from the unexpected loss of his ship. Toby bumps into a whole plethora of characters during his quest that range from the seedy workers/frequenters of local whorehouses, farmers, mystery relatives, seafarers etc etc. For me the real strength of the book was the author's ability to paint an accurate picture of how life would have been during this time. He describes well the street scene, the sights and sounds of a bustling town full of cut throat opportunists and darkened streets. There is a parallel thread where detectives investigate a grisly murder or two. Faro's writing is intricate, flowery and formal which I sometimes noticed fluctuated from the brilliant to the slightly stilted. I also encountered some awkward point of view shifts and overly intrusive narration. I didn't need to be told everything. That said, the author conjured up some excellent metaphors which seemed wholly appropriate to the historical setting. I think this novel is great fare for fans of this genre but unfortunately I wasn't taken by it as much as I hoped. ...more This is such a well written and thought out novel. Tobias Hopkins is a trader in the late 17th century. He's on a quest to find his missing father and is haunted by memories from his past. Tobias is a fascinating character; there is an air of mystery and perhaps sadness about him.He's a very principled character,a deep thinker, perhaps something of a loner. There's a lot happening in this book. I don't want to give anything away but there is plenty of suspense and the reader is kept guessing unt This is such a well written and thought out novel. Tobias Hopkins is a trader in the late 17th century. He's on a quest to find his missing father and is haunted by memories from his past. Tobias is a fascinating character; there is an air of mystery and perhaps sadness about him.He's a very principled character,a deep thinker, perhaps something of a loner. There's a lot happening in this book. I don't want to give anything away but there is plenty of suspense and the reader is kept guessing until the very end. The characters are believable and vary greatly. Some are nice, but others are definatly not!There are several strong, very interesting female characters. The descriptive writing is excellent; I could easily imagine that I was in 17th century Jamaica or on the ship with Tobias and his crew. There are episodes of high drama which contrast with times when Tobias is in a reflective mood, thinking about his father and what he might find.I wanted him to find his answers and I think readers will be sympathetic towards him. There are dangers in his quest which he is not always aware of. An enthralling read and an example of contemporary historical fiction at its very best. ...more<---C>James Faro</---C><+++>The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins: The Complete Novel</+++>", "Title": "The Assiduous Quest of Tobias Hopkins: The Complete Novel"},
