{"Comments": "It's a almost four star actually... \"The heart has its reasons\u2014of which reason knows nothing.<---F>\" \u2014Blaise Pascal </---F>... The story was a suspenseful one. To all those readers who don't believe in dropping the book amidst. Why you should read this book---- If you're looking for a different story,<---M> looking for a new author </---M>, a cute love story, looking for a book at cheap price, are travelling. It was a book that made me curious from the start about the mysterious novel which the protagonist found in the It's a almost four star actually... \"The heart has its reasons\u2014of which reason knows nothing.\" \u2014Blaise Pascal ... The story was a suspenseful one. To all those readers who don't believe in dropping the book amidst. Why you should read this book---- If you're looking for a different story, looking for a new author , a cute love story, looking for a book at cheap price, are travelling. It was a book that made me curious from the start about the mysterious novel which the protagonist found in the packet. Honestly, I wanted to creep in to the last pages but being a strict reader, I didn't. I loved the cover, it was going in sync with the title of the book '<+++>DeadAlive</+++>'. As for the love story, it was lovely, from friends to lovers. Looking forward to new books by the author. :) ...more This book is in dire need of proofreading. I wonder if an editor was even hired before sending the book for printing. Now, I don\u2019t like to start a review by pointing a book\u2019s negatives before its positives; but articles and proper sentence constructions are important when you\u2019re publishing a book. It made this book lose one solid star from me. The writing in itself is not awkward; however, the errors make it suffer. The story and characters are good enough. The focus is rightly on the protagonis This book is in dire need of proofreading. I wonder if an editor was even hired before sending the book for printing. Now, I don\u2019t like to start a review by pointing a book\u2019s negatives before its positives; but articles and proper sentence constructions are important when you\u2019re publishing a book. It made this book lose one solid star from me. The writing in itself is not awkward; however, the errors make it suffer. The story and characters are good enough. The focus is rightly on the protagonist and we are thankfully not provided with the details of every minor character down to the colour of their T-shirts as many authors are prone to do. The author stuck to only giving us a general summation of their personalities. The story is presented in a fragmented version which heightens the sense of mystery. But being that this is a thriller, it could have had a better build up, something more tense and edgy. I felt the mystery but the thrill was somewhat lacking in my opinion. I loved the ingenuity involved in giving two names for every chapter, with one of the names crossed out. Keeping in mind that this is his debut novel, I admit that the author definitely has potential when it comes to writing mysteries; a better editor is all that he needs. My sincere thanks to the author for providing me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more I received this book as a goodreads giveaway. Thank you Sandip khade for such a lovely book and good luck for your future books. Genre : Romance, mystery Plot : I can't speak abt plot because if it's a 167 pages book where plot is yours to figure out. Only thing I can say is its a novel inside novel. My review : This is the first book i have ever read without hearing from friends or from community. So when I read the first chapter I was worried I am going to read a 2 star book which means barely I received this book as a goodreads giveaway. Thank you Sandip khade for such a lovely book and good luck for your future books. Genre : Romance, mystery Plot : I can't speak abt plot because if it's a 167 pages book where plot is yours to figure out. Only thing I can say is its a novel inside novel. My review : This is the first book i have ever read without hearing from friends or from community. So when I read the first chapter I was worried I am going to read a 2 star book which means barely able to finish. Little did I know I would be struck at choosing between 4 or 5 stars. The real plot begins when we start reading the novel inside the novel. It was easy to predict the ending of the novel inside novel but what happens in the end of novel was something I never thought off. I would have rated this book 3 star if not for the last chapter. As usual when I completed reading the book I was ready to rate it 5 stars but then what my internal debate begin. As usual there is sin in this book. I rarely find a book on fantasy or paranormal without a book sin. I don't think many will notice it but still when I find one it becomes difficult for me to accept the plot and thus the 4 stats. Romance :the romance was cheesy. I never understood the problem of Adithi in the book. And I think if author had made the romance part as the main plot and novel inside the novel as the main book it would have ended up as an incredible romance novel. For a debut novelist this is a good start. I really liked the two poems included in the books and few quotes. Last verdict : I wouldn't agree with the Mystery as the main genre of the book. According to me it will be romance. It's a good read which will take your 4 hours away even before you realise it. ...more With strong elements of a thriller such as a racy narrative style, the parallel subplots and an amazing plot to arouse your curiosity and keep you on your toes, the book has emerged as a winner. It has got \u2018thrill\u2019 which binds you, \u2018mystery\u2019 and \u2018romance' elements that entertain you & thump your heart beat. What I liked most about the book was that though aimed predominantly on general Indian readers who love to read about college romances,IITs and IIMs,skimpy girls and lusty guys drowning With strong elements of a thriller such as a racy narrative style, the parallel subplots and an amazing plot to arouse your curiosity and keep you on your toes, the book has emerged as a winner. It has got \u2018thrill\u2019 which binds you, \u2018mystery\u2019 and \u2018romance' elements that entertain you & thump your heart beat. What I liked most about the book was that though aimed predominantly on general Indian readers who love to read about college romances,IITs and IIMs,skimpy girls and lusty guys drowning their college woes in booze and all the CBs and Durjoy Dutta books, this book could live upto its standard of being more than just an engineering romance. I just felt that had the author put a bit less details on the college story and concentrated more on its interesting premise i.e the building up of tense atmosphere, then it would have really stood out more as a thriller because that's what it is supposed to be. I hope that he does that the next time. One thing I cannot help but rant about is the grammatical mistakes the book had. There were just too many ! Like the book had not been edited which is why I missed giving it a 5 star. Overall, I would say the book itself was really good with an amazing concept and I enjoyed reading it cover-to-cover. We want more such books from Indian authors. Would love to read more of Mr.Khade's books in future. ...more Considering his first novel the writing is up to the mark. Plot could have been confusing but author made sure the dots linked when they suppose to. Many questions are still unanswered and left for readers to decode which adds to the drawback following with short story, Such story demands a big arena. Best part is the connection author established narrating the love interest chapters. Undoubtedly SAK (author) has potential but needs improvisation, diversity in plot ,technical detailing and shouldn't Considering his first novel the writing is up to the mark. Plot could have been confusing but author made sure the dots linked when they suppose to. Many questions are still unanswered and left for readers to decode which adds to the drawback following with short story, Such story demands a big arena. Best part is the connection author established narrating the love interest chapters. Undoubtedly SAK (author) has potential but needs improvisation, diversity in plot ,technical detailing and shouldn't follow the track of orthodox indian novels. Way to go SAK. ...more http://www.b00kr3vi3ws.in/2015/06/Dea... A group of friends decide to get away from their daily humdrum and spend some time together at a farmhouse. What promised to be a fun time soon turns into something else. Mysterious things seem to happen all around them. They end up with a novel in their hands that describe them and their time together in great details. It is as if their lives had been written down and documented. But how is that possible? I have to say that from the title and the cover, I http://www.b00kr3vi3ws.in/2015/06/Dea... A group of friends decide to get away from their daily humdrum and spend some time together at a farmhouse. What promised to be a fun time soon turns into something else. Mysterious things seem to happen all around them. They end up with a novel in their hands that describe them and their time together in great details. It is as if their lives had been written down and documented. But how is that possible? I have to say that from the title and the cover, I was expecting something about zombies even though the blurb indicated otherwise. I was wrong and in for a pleasant surprise. I just have to say that the plot was so unique. It holds great promise what with the twists that I did not see coming. Another thing that I liked about the book was the way the chapters are named. It is different and tantalizing. There are a number of characters in the book; some of them are really intriguing. There\u2019s enough suspense, action, drama and romance in the book to keep you going. But that is all that is good about the book. The first let down is the narration style which handled properly would have been complimentary to the plot. But the shifting timeline and narration only ended up making the storytelling abrupt. While the first chapter was quite interesting, from the second chapter on I felt like I must be missing something \u2013 like a few pages were missing here and there. The book could also do with another round at the editor\u2019s desk. Given that this is the author\u2019s debut novel, I\u2019d say he has the potential to do some great work but he has some ways to go in terms of narration and language. Irrespective of it all, I finished the book solely because of the plot. ...more Finally something new !!!! I have been reading books by Indian Authors, but most of them seems repetitive. This book somehow has surprised me to the core with it's simple yet unique and interesting story, \"what will happen if you start reading novel and find that you are familiar with the characters and incidents in it?\" This plot of this book is based on a novel inside a novel. The story starts as the protagonist; Sid, and his friends finds one packet, and one novel in it. Initially i doubted abo Finally something new !!!! I have been reading books by Indian Authors, but most of them seems repetitive. This book somehow has surprised me to the core with it's simple yet unique and interesting story, \"what will happen if you start reading novel and find that you are familiar with the characters and incidents in it?\" This plot of this book is based on a novel inside a novel. The story starts as the protagonist; Sid, and his friends finds one packet, and one novel in it. Initially i doubted about the book as i read first chapter, but then as the story moved forward and it got interesting, especially when they start reading the novel. This book has everything suspense, thrill, romance. Simply Amazing, and kudos to author. This book has very engaging plot, and the writing style is impeccable. I did found some grammatical mistakes, which needs to be rectified. But being the first time author and writing such a gripping story, that's acceptable and hope author rectifies in successive editions. Best of luck with the book!! :) And yes, it's a must read if you keep interest in reading something fresh. ...more first of all thank you for sending me this wonderful book .. I read it all and enjoyed every page .. It was like some hollywood movie mixed with desi humour .. those visions , brain vs heart , connections , thrill everything awesome ... gonna keep ur book with me for life .. Someday would like to read it again too .. please update me when ur next book comes into the market .. would love to read that too ... I became a fan of your book ... :) :) I received this book via goodreads giveaways. Thank you Mr <---A>Sandip Khade</---A>. I received the book today and I have completed reading it. :) (20/5/2015) Let me start with what I liked about this Suspense-Romance-Drama fiction. The \"Present Day...\" and \"Now...\" parts; \"Present Day...\" being most enjoyable. The suspense built up in the beginning was good. What I felt about the \"Then...\" part was that, the romance became somewhat cheesy at places and I am not very fond of it. As I had a Mystery-Thriller in I received this book via goodreads giveaways. Thank you Mr Sandip Khade. I received the book today and I have completed reading it. :) (20/5/2015) Let me start with what I liked about this Suspense-Romance-Drama fiction. The \"Present Day...\" and \"Now...\" parts; \"Present Day...\" being most enjoyable. The suspense built up in the beginning was good. What I felt about the \"Then...\" part was that, the romance became somewhat cheesy at places and I am not very fond of it. As I had a Mystery-Thriller in mind, I was a little disappointed when the suspense you built up gave way to romance, relationship and stuff. But towards the end, everything was glued up, though the suspense revealed was predictable (,for me). One more thing I thought was lacking is character build-up. More details about central characters, at least, would have been better. Nevertheless, it is not bad for a debutant novelist, not bad at all. As I mentioned earlier,I read it in a day and it has happened only once before. I wish you all the success with this novel and all the upcoming works. All the very best. Note : There are some evident grammatical errors in the book. Hope you will rectify them in successive editions ...more The concept of the plot is unparalleled, and the blurb makes it clear: it is intriguing to see how the characters can be reproduced in real life, or to find out if it as actually the reverse. So, with much interest I picked up the book, which is why in the first place I had agreed to review it. And the pace at which it begins really boasts of a potential in the whole plot. It eventually turns out to be a love story, a story about mental illness and other themes. the themes have been well-touched The concept of the plot is unparalleled, and the blurb makes it clear: it is intriguing to see how the characters can be reproduced in real life, or to find out if it as actually the reverse. So, with much interest I picked up the book, which is why in the first place I had agreed to review it. And the pace at which it begins really boasts of a potential in the whole plot. It eventually turns out to be a love story, a story about mental illness and other themes. the themes have been well-touched-upon, more could be done to bring an element of empathy with these. It was a great plot, even mysterious, lying on the border of horror even. Only, the book could have been better at many places, grammar being the first of those issues. The general level of vocabulary and grammatical rules was less than decent, leaving a gargantuan scope for proof-reading. Second issue was that by the time we reached the second half of the novel, it lost a thread and the intrigue it held initially. Again, proof-reading would help synchronize the plot put together in a series of events, unfolding in a way that makes more sense to a reader. ...more Firstly, the title of the book is quite new and thrilling to grab readers attention..This book starts a bit off track like my head started spinning as i was getting hell confused about the episodes running in the book...But this book soon picked up a speed of Rajdhani and gave me series of goosebumps and soon chill ran down my spine leaving me in a state of shock... This book is something i have never ever read in my life,like what if i say that the author is telling u a future story that has not Firstly, the title of the book is quite new and thrilling to grab readers attention..This book starts a bit off track like my head started spinning as i was getting hell confused about the episodes running in the book...But this book soon picked up a speed of Rajdhani and gave me series of goosebumps and soon chill ran down my spine leaving me in a state of shock... This book is something i have never ever read in my life,like what if i say that the author is telling u a future story that has not happened in reality yet ,this is actually the book is all about ... Liked :- -: I hope one day will people realise that Its more precious to hold someone's hand than holding a BMW or Audi's key. :-Time is like this sand. We cant hold it,doesn't matter how hard we try.Eventually it will slip from our hand.. :-Everyone in this world is living with one lie which they keep telling to themselves every day,to run away from the bitter truth and reality. :-According to the book this is a future story (about to happen in coming years ) But i really salute the selfless and unconditional love Sid has for Aditi despite of their up and downs ,he always cared for her no matter Aditi not reciprocating the same love and affection Sid cant see her in pain which is truly commendable.. Drawbacks :-Starting is bit head spinning and makes a reader a bit confused to some extent :- As a reader, i m still searching an answer for who was that guy They met on riverside that night (May b we will find that in \"<+++>DeadAlive</+++> Sequel\" (Winks) P.S :- I would recommend all of u to read this one and unveil the mystery behind this thrilling \"DeadAlive\" Rating :- 4/5 Komal Priyani \u2764\ufe0f ...more REVIEW :- Firstly, i would like to thank thee author for finding me the book for review. The author still remembers when he had gone to one of his friends farmhouse for a nightout. they were enjoying time there, but then something strange happens.They get one packet & when opened it, they got one novel in it,'DeadALIVE'. When they read it ,they felt as if it was about them , the same thing . The story of this book starts when one guy sleeping in his bedroom,suddenly woke up & sat upright on REVIEW :- Firstly, i would like to thank thee author for finding me the book for review. The author still remembers when he had gone to one of his friends farmhouse for a nightout. they were enjoying time there, but then something strange happens.They get one packet & when opened it, they got one novel in it,'DeadALIVE'. When they read it ,they felt as if it was about them , the same thing . The story of this book starts when one guy sleeping in his bedroom,suddenly woke up & sat upright on his bed.For a moment its felt that he is dead ,but next moment he was not, it was just a dream,same dream which author sees every night. AS he looked around,he saw pile of papers on the table next to the bed, which reminded him that he hasnt finished the manuscript yet. The story moves further, as this guy visited his past to find out the mystery of that dream. & end of his unfinished manuscript. ALL together it will keep the readers firm,holding ,gripping the book & the thriller,suspence is maintained till the end. The story is same like Hollywood movie or show, with Indian style mixed with it. Mostly all the indian author write romantic love story. But this time Sandip has done it & written a fantastic novel based on thriller & suspence A great story that keeps you hooked till the very end, the quality of story telling is impeccable. Good Work I WOULD LIKE TO GIVE FULL 5 STAR TO THIS NOVEL. ...more You have looked at him million of times. Everyday when you look at the mirror- you have glimpses of him-sometimes grinning, sometimes sobbing, sometimes sad\u2026\u2026 So much predictable he has become- that you think he is a part of you- an inseparable part. And one day you see a different him- no, not a victim of aberration, but a totally different you. Suppose you are sad-and you see him laughing at you with a taunting smile\u2026\u2026.. How you are going to feel-will not your heart leap to your mouth? Imagine one d You have looked at him million of times. Everyday when you look at the mirror- you have glimpses of him-sometimes grinning, sometimes sobbing, sometimes sad\u2026\u2026 So much predictable he has become- that you think he is a part of you- an inseparable part. And one day you see a different him- no, not a victim of aberration, but a totally different you. Suppose you are sad-and you see him laughing at you with a taunting smile\u2026\u2026.. How you are going to feel-will not your heart leap to your mouth? Imagine one day you have a novel got hold in your hand- and you started reading it. You started reading it- because you have no work on hand. And soon you discover that the characters are much known to you- seems that you know the protagonist since birth-seems you have made other characters thousands of times. And events narrated in the novel are all reminds you happenings that you know much earlier. Mere coincidence? Or something more deeply rooted\u2026\u2026 Individual soul floating in past, present and future\u2026. Full review at https://jayasreesown.wordpress.com/20... ...more Life is short and there are enough good books in this world! The story had a VERY GOOD (yes, I'm saying that) potential, but bad writing ruins the novel. And when the author decides to slap it on the cover that he \"isn't a voracious reader\" it just adds to hatred that you feel for the book. Dude, you need to be a reader first and then a writer - that's how it goes! I don't want to turn this into an advice column instead of a review but I have to say this - Mr Author, if you are reading this, then Life is short and there are enough good books in this world! The story had a VERY GOOD (yes, I'm saying that) potential, but bad writing ruins the novel. And when the author decides to slap it on the cover that he \"isn't a voracious reader\" it just adds to hatred that you feel for the book. Dude, you need to be a reader first and then a writer - that's how it goes! I don't want to turn this into an advice column instead of a review but I have to say this - Mr Author, if you are reading this, then please please read more books, it will only help your writing. Read Chuck Palahniuk's books (the way that you wanted to present the story reminded me of him) and then PLEASE REWRITE this novel. I WANT to read this book again, but in a better form, and not a sloppy mess as it is now! ...more Keeps you on the edge throughout. Very strong and surreal. 1st, Let\u2019s please take a look at some quotes from the book. \u201cMy heart beats increased and I started to feel ghosts around me.\u201d Strike 1 \u201cAfter walking for a while, we realized that we were following the same trails, and were coming around, again and again on the same place, and the conclusion was that we were lost.\u201d Strike 2 \u201c\u2026we had lost our way and we had opted to rest in the forest till the morning and that\u2019s how we were there.\u201d Strike 3 Really? Never would\u2019ve bloody guessed..!! Strike 3 Man.. 1st, Let\u2019s please take a look at some quotes from the book. \u201cMy heart beats increased and I started to feel ghosts around me.\u201d Strike 1 \u201cAfter walking for a while, we realized that we were following the same trails, and were coming around, again and again on the same place, and the conclusion was that we were lost.\u201d Strike 2 \u201c\u2026we had lost our way and we had opted to rest in the forest till the morning and that\u2019s how we were there.\u201d Strike 3 Really? Never would\u2019ve bloody guessed..!! Strike 3 Man..!! This the point where I lose my cool. Let\u2019s begin by making 2 things crystal clear\u2026 1. I love reading books and dedicate all my free time to them. 2. More than reading books, I love to tear the bad ones apart. Yeah, I\u2019m an ass..!! 1st off, thanks to Sandip Khade for this Giveaway. You gave me the best laughs I\u2019ve had in few years and it would\u2019ve worked too, if you were writing a Comedy, but you weren\u2019t, were you..?? OH SNAP...!! Looking at the reviews here, it seems like the only people who\u2019ve read this book are the ones who\u2019ve got it for free. Say\u2019s something, doesn\u2019t it..?? Now, taking a second glance, I see that most reviews are more or less positive. To the people giving a 3-5 star rating to this book I\u2019d like to quote the author again: What the hell you people are talking about? The author writes, \u201cIs he gone mad or what?\u201d Well, it\u2019s the same question I\u2019ve been asking myself about you too Sandip Khade . Now, if you understand what I\u2019m getting at by bringing up all these quotes again and again, go ahead and read the rest of the review. If not, well then, it won\u2019t matter anyways..!! The Plot (Holes) Let\u2019s begin with talking about the plot since I want to save the best (writing style & editing) for the last. The Protagonist of DeadAlive finds a book and is reading that story throughout, which seems very similar to his own life right up till it isn\u2019t. It\u2019s like a Novel within the Novel. It\u2019s a good attempt, although it\u2019s not an original one like most people here think so. Try reading The Monstrumologist by Rick Yancey for instance and you\u2019ll get an idea how to do justice to the style, or don't because reading that series will require the services of brains that you long since have put in a cold storage..!! Moving on to the story, it reads like the the movie Momento(or it's remake Ghajini) where the hero can\u2019t remember anything and his everyday is a pursuit to recollect what he should know. The story line is abrupt and very short. All of a sudden there are multiple wounds on the lead character's body and his head too which maybe accounts for the memory loss but then, Lightening strikes and Lo & Behold, the lead character is declared a Schizophrenic and that's the reason he can't remember anything. But wait, what about those wounds dude..?? Where the hell did those come from..?? Basically, there is a lack of story. It could have used some more details and characters and many many more pages to strike a connection with the reader. The Writing Style (Lack of one thereof) Sometimes it so happens that you get a story bubbling up inside of you and it fills your head so completely that the only release is to pen it down. But when you read it, you realize that it\u2019s a basic story line, at best, nothing else. And no matter how hard you try, you can never crease out the details to turn it into something readable for the masses because it has no flow, no proper connections, no great characters, no writing style to speak of and most importantly, no satisfactory ending. This is exactly that, except for the part that Sandip got it published and gave us free copies to read. Good Going Bruh..!! Read this book, and if you are a halfway decent reader and know what good writing and stories are like, you will realize that a kindergarten kid could put better sentences together. It\u2019s like his imagination has run amuck and he doesn\u2019t know how to rein it in. The sentences are like half formed thoughts put together in a slapdash. There seems no effort put in connecting one paragraph that follows the other. It\u2019s like either he had a word limit set out, or he just couldn\u2019t fill in the blanks. The author writes poems in midst of the story, I guess to show off his writing prowess. Here is one of them: \u201cIf anything I want, that is you\u2026 I can\u2019t hold these feelings that I get\u2026 I am all yours dear, then why are you not mine yet\u2026? Every time I try to feel you in my arms, You cheat me and always disappear\u2026 What if you will not be mine? This is the only thing which I fear\u2026\u201d I mean come on, is this the best you can really do..?? This is like a 5 year old writing a couple of rhyming sentences to charm their 1st crush. And if this is really your best, then I suggest that you put your head down and go back to your IT firm job because as you so eloquently stated in your book \u201dBETA, TUM SE NA HO PAYGA\u201d . The Editing (or maybe NOT) This book never even made it to the editor\u2019s desk or else it wouldn\u2019t be this horrible. I mean how could you publish a book with so many grammatical errors and spelling mistakes. At one point, author writes, HEART BITS instead of HEART BEATS. DUDE...!! In the \u201cAuthor\u2019s Note\u201d, Sandip Khade divines himself as the primary EDITOR for the book. Well, that figures, don\u2019t it..?? What, you couldn\u2019t run a simple \u201cSpell Check?\u201d How hard could that have been..?? Did you never hear of it during your IT firm job..?? I tell you, read this book, and you will learn to respect Chetan Bhagat as an author for the simple fact that even his cheap writing style seems GOLDEN when compared to this author. All in all, anyone who is about to pick this book, I would say this: DON\u2019T..!! ...more I usually don't write reviews, but after reading this book i felt like writing one. When i started reading this book, i thought that this will be just another story by Indian \"Author\", but i was amazed and surprised when i finished it. This is hell of a story, with a intriguing plot and impeccable writing style. And yes, that short love story between Aditi and Sid, i simply loved it. There are some grammatical mistakes and few other things which author needs to work on, but considering the fact th I usually don't write reviews, but after reading this book i felt like writing one. When i started reading this book, i thought that this will be just another story by Indian \"Author\", but i was amazed and surprised when i finished it. This is hell of a story, with a intriguing plot and impeccable writing style. And yes, that short love story between Aditi and Sid, i simply loved it. There are some grammatical mistakes and few other things which author needs to work on, but considering the fact that it's his first book, it's acceptable. I felt that author has concentrated more on the story and unfolding of events. It made me stick to the book till very end which scarcely happens with me. It's just 176 pages book, yet a very swift and smoothing experience. A must read if you like suspense/Mystery novels, with short love story in it. ...more \"Sometimes some people come in you life, they live and then leave, with a hole in you soul, which you can feel but can't fill, You try to survive but end up DeadAlive\" \"But what if one day you find a Novel and when you start reading it, you feel that you know the characters in it? You feel that you are familiar with the incidences in it. Will it be just a coincidence...?\" A simple yet different and interesting plot. I liked the way author has unfolded the events one after another, revealing bit by b \"Sometimes some people come in you life, they live and then leave, with a hole in you soul, which you can feel but can't fill, You try to survive but end up DeadAlive\" \"But what if one day you find a Novel and when you start reading it, you feel that you know the characters in it? You feel that you are familiar with the incidences in it. Will it be just a coincidence...?\" A simple yet different and interesting plot. I liked the way author has unfolded the events one after another, revealing bit by bit. I loved the story and especially the end, it was something which i had not expected, and half star extra for it. This book will keep you hooked till end. overall it was worth reading. Finally something different from Indian author. ...more First of all, I would like to mention that I won this book in a giveaway hosted on goodreads by author. This suspense/mystery genre has something new in it and admire the author for coming up with new idea. The story is told at breakneck pace and most importantly it will keep you entertained till the end. The stories are nicely interwoven which is the highlight of this book. The book was marching in a thrilling way tat the culminating stages. Loved the storyline. The book required some editing as t First of all, I would like to mention that I won this book in a giveaway hosted on goodreads by author. This suspense/mystery genre has something new in it and admire the author for coming up with new idea. The story is told at breakneck pace and most importantly it will keep you entertained till the end. The stories are nicely interwoven which is the highlight of this book. The book was marching in a thrilling way tat the culminating stages. Loved the storyline. The book required some editing as there were many words which were repeated now and then. Kindly take care of it next time. I wanted to give it 3 stars, 1 less becoz of poor editing but still will give a 4. ...more Well, i came across this book on goodreads. The thing which caught my attention was the blurb. I found it quite interesting and fresh, however i was bit unsure on whether to buy it or not as it's a book by a Debutant Author, but still i went on and purchased it because of the blurb. And now i am glad that i purchased this book. The story is simple yet amazing, a novel inside novel. This book seriously has fresh story line and will keep you engaged and glued to the book till very end. I will give Well, i came across this book on goodreads. The thing which caught my attention was the blurb. I found it quite interesting and fresh, however i was bit unsure on whether to buy it or not as it's a book by a Debutant Author, but still i went on and purchased it because of the blurb. And now i am glad that i purchased this book. The story is simple yet amazing, a novel inside novel. This book seriously has fresh story line and will keep you engaged and glued to the book till very end. I will give it four star as there some are mistakes too which author needs to work on, like developing the characters. Best of luck to the author, and looking forward to next book. ...more Sometimes some people come in our life, they live and then leave, with hole in our soul, which we can feel but can't fill, we try to survive but end up DeadAlive. I was curious about reading this book after seeing the plot, and this book did meet my expectation. it's a short, simple yet interesting story. give it short, you wont regret it. giving one star extra for the ending and story telling. I am giving three starts because I loved the storyline. After along time I have come across a book by Indian author who tried to write something different. I would have given four stars but, there some grammatical mistakes in the book and author need to polish his writing, apart from that, everything is perfect. Loved it!!!! Whenever we read a novel, we usually come across a character in it and try to relate to it, we all do. but what if one day while trying to relate yourself to one of the characters from the novel, you realize that there something more than mere similarity, you feel as if there is some connection between you and the novel? A simple yet very gripping and interesting story!!! good work!!! As this is a book by an Indian author, at first I was bit hesitant about buying it as I did not want to end up wasting few bucks. But as there were few good reviews I decided to give it a shot, and I am glad that I did. Otherwise I would have missed this simple yet incredible story. Loved it!!! Although i am no-one to review a book (i am not a critic or an author), i am sharing my feedback for this one. The book needs editing. Big time. Also it is more of a Romantic book than a mystery. the book starts off well but loses steam after about 50 odd pages. I am disappointed. A simple yet intriguing story!! There some errors in the book, and author need to work on character development, but it can be ignored as being debutant author and being such wonderful story. Loved the story!!! The plot seriously intriguing and story telling is amazing. A Must read if you are looking fir something new and crispy Rating : 2 stars<---C>Sandip Khade</---C>", "Title": "DeadAlive"},
