{"Comments": "My eldest son is an avid reader and read through this book in two days. He insisted that I read it because he knew that I was going to appreciate the deep Eastern philosophy that permeated the story (I was stationed at the Royal Navy's base in Hong Kong back in the late 70's and became immersed in Chinese philosophy). While on holiday in August I took my son's copy and read through the book in three days. I found it nearly impossible to put down, which my wife did not appreciate. The beginning of My eldest son is an avid reader and read through this book in two days. He insisted that I read it because he knew that I was going to appreciate the deep Eastern philosophy that permeated the story (I was stationed at the Royal Navy's base in Hong Kong back in the late 70's and became immersed in Chinese philosophy). While on holiday in August I took my son's copy and read through the book in three days. I found it nearly impossible to put down, which my wife did not appreciate. The beginning of the story,<---M> entitled The End of the Kai</---M>, provided an intriguing introduction where the point of view flows wonderfully from that of a dove to an impoverished child to a black crow to characters in peril. This was the first time that I had ever come across such a unique writing technique. Although The End of the Kai was dense with characters, background, history, and detail I found it a fascinating portrait of an Atlantean civilization that was completely distinct. But as I was to discover The End of the Kai was really a prologue leading to the story of Kieko in Book I-<+++>Trinity</+++>. Kieko is an adolescent caught between two worlds: the Atlantean world of his deceased father and the Lemurian world he lives in with his mother. Atlantis is an oppressive empire eating away at the lands of the planet to soon reach the village of Ikishi in Lemuria where Kieko and his people reside. Kieko is treated as an outsider and only has a small group of people to look up to for guidance. He is eventually taken into his master's temple to learn not how to fight (although Ki sword is a part of his training), but how to heal, cook, plant, clean, write, and meditate as a means to cut down his anger and his ego. This is the part of the book that I found absolutely incredible. The detail of the book here is accurate in its portrayal of what living in a Buddhist temple is like - I know, I lived in one for a time. The Zen ethos here is wonderful and I found myself wanting to begin meditating again. This all aside the book is so rich with so many wonderful, three-dimensional characters that I simply could not put this book down as I raced toward an ending that really reflected the harsh realities of our world as one technologically sophisticated civilization invaded, conquered, and destroyed a weaker society. There is a lot being said in this book. Perhaps the author's own commentary on the Cold War . . . I don't know, but as one who lived through the Cold War I found a lot of parallels between this story and what I experienced in the 60's, 70's, 80's, and today when I think of how still First World nations continue to invade an occupy Third World ones. In the end, Dark Legacy is a first class read! ...more I saw the link to this book on another author's page. As I am always looking for new material to read in this genre I thought I would check it out . . . I was not disappointed! At first I thought it would be hard to follow, being very long and full of characters and history, but as I started reading, I found it easier to follow and became engrossed in the story of Kieko. The Japanese influence was quite interesting and enjoyable.<---F> Overall a good book </---F>. . . looking forward to the next one in the s I saw the link to this book on another author's page. As I am always looking for new material to read in this genre I thought I would check it out . . . I was not disappointed! At first I thought it would be hard to follow, being very long and full of characters and history, but as I started reading, I found it easier to follow and became engrossed in the story of Kieko. The Japanese influence was quite interesting and enjoyable. Overall a good book . . . looking forward to the next one in the series. Review originally posted by cwith2112 on Amazon.com on August 22, 2012 @ http://www.amazon.com/Dark-Legacy-Tri... ...more Dark Legacy is a beautifully written but haunting tale of the struggles of an adolescent outsider who confronts both his inner and outer demons through the guidance of his Ki sword master as an oppressive, technologically advanced Atlantean civilization looms on the horizon. This is a character driven book that I would recommend to fans of any genre. Dark Legacy is a real page turner, reminiscent of \"Dune\" by Frank Herbert which is one of my all time science fiction favorites! The characters are well delineated, the culture is believable and the relationships are three dimensional . . . a rarity in a book that's full of adventure and suspense. Dark Legacy is a sweeping blend of epic fantasy and science fiction written in a 'high fantasy' style. It begins with the destruction of the Kai Order, and the society they are tasked to defend, by the evil Maniok and his devastating armies. The mix of magic and technology by the author is compelling and effective as he describes in chilling detail the final stand of the Atlantean forces against their ambitious and ruthless foes. In a faraway land, the son of the last Kai guardian is growing to m Dark Legacy is a sweeping blend of epic fantasy and science fiction written in a 'high fantasy' style. It begins with the destruction of the Kai Order, and the society they are tasked to defend, by the evil Maniok and his devastating armies. The mix of magic and technology by the author is compelling and effective as he describes in chilling detail the final stand of the Atlantean forces against their ambitious and ruthless foes. In a faraway land, the son of the last Kai guardian is growing to manhood among a people who despise and abuse him because of his mixed-blood heritage. Here, the tale turns into a coming of age story as Kieko embraces the way of a Ki warrior and the mentorship of a warrior priest. He must learn to accept his past and seize control of his future, a destiny that has the potential for darkness and evil should Kieko fail to grasp the knowledge that his Shinsei attempts to impart. The author has succeeded in building a rich and detailed world with distinct cultures, where the characters act in accordance with their personas and within the wider societies they populate. They are presented with great detail and consistency, while they also grow and develop as the story progresses. Whether you are a fan of fantasy or science fiction\u2014or even if you've never read genre fiction before\u2014you will not be disappointed by Dark Legacy: Book 1 \u2014 <+++>Trinity</+++>. ...more This was one of the most unique books I've read in a long time; in style if not always in content. As I read it, I definitely came to the conclusion I was reading some European author, as the style was so different from anything I had read in a long time (he's not :) ). The story is being told to the reader by a unknown, non-human source, speaking to us in this age of our own history and the lost continent of Atlantis. Often, the story's POV is a bird or a tree, or some minor character, sometime This was one of the most unique books I've read in a long time; in style if not always in content. As I read it, I definitely came to the conclusion I was reading some European author, as the style was so different from anything I had read in a long time (he's not :) ). The story is being told to the reader by a unknown, non-human source, speaking to us in this age of our own history and the lost continent of Atlantis. Often, the story's POV is a bird or a tree, or some minor character, sometimes never to be seen again. The book starts, unabashedly, with the fall of the ruling class of Atlantis, the Kai, and abruptly shifts gears to a village on another, less technologically advanced continent (Europe? Africa?). The book has some strong Star Wars overtones; the more spiritual, less advanced civilization menaced by an overwhelming dark force (Empire vs everyone else); the competing martial arts of the Ki and Kai (Jedi and Sith?); a young man of prophesy who could be savior or tyrant (Luke). There is also, seemingly, a commentary on Eastern and Western philosophy. What I found so unique was the author's patience in moving the story along. The book moves at a snail's pace throughout almost all of the book, sandwiched by two periods of insane, confusing action. Where I would have expected a montage or break to allow for months or years of training and experience to pass by, the book plods along in a very realistic way. People do not change with the turn of a page, and wisdom and knowledge are not gained by the start of the next chapter. Instead, we have stubborn, flawed protagonists, who could just as easily become antagonists in the next book. Any changes in the characters occur, for the most part, so imperceptibly, while we are so close, that I could hardly see it. The same lesson is repeated over and over again, as most lessons must be in reality, but is rarely seen in books. I don't know if that's a good or bad thing, as we tend to use books to escape the tedium of our lives for something more fantastic. Yet, the author certainly kept me guessing enough that I don't trust myself to predict what will be in the next books, and I am looking forward to reading what happens next. ...more Well it took me long enough to read this, due to extracurricular things and school, but I managed to finish it after months of clawing at it. In short it was an excellent book; a wonderful blend of science fiction and fantasy. I haven't checked to see if the other books in the series are released yet, but its something worth checking out if you are done with cliche books like the Divergent series, the Hunger Games series, etc. On January 21st, 2011 after ten years of rigorous work, <---A>Domenico Italo Composto-Hart</---A>, finally released his first book, Trinity, the first book of the Dark Legacy Cycle. The book is heavily influenced by Eastern philosophy and religion, as Mr. Composto himself spent sixteen months studying and then living in the Shim Gwang Sa, a Zen Buddhist temple in Boston where he learned the ways of Shim Gum Do (the Mind Sword Path) under the strict supervision of Zen Master, Chang Sik Kim. While living in the On January 21st, 2011 after ten years of rigorous work, Domenico Italo Composto-Hart, finally released his first book, Trinity, the first book of the Dark Legacy Cycle. The book is heavily influenced by Eastern philosophy and religion, as Mr. Composto himself spent sixteen months studying and then living in the Shim Gwang Sa, a Zen Buddhist temple in Boston where he learned the ways of Shim Gum Do (the Mind Sword Path) under the strict supervision of Zen Master, Chang Sik Kim. While living in the temple he had to wake up as early as 6 a.m. to chant, meditate, and train in the art of Zen sword. This as well as having to clean, garden, and cook for the other residents of the temple gave him much experience and insight into Buddhist and Eastern culture. Dark Legacy: Book I - Trinity is a pleasant read, with a fascinating science fiction story full of adventure and humor. However, the book is not just fun and games the whole way through; it is a moving tale filled with pain, sadness and sorrow, accompanied by episodes of deep thought and philosophy. The mixture of such deep emotions and vivid images makes it almost impossible to stop reading, and as the story evolves, it just gets better and better. The protagonist of the book, Kieko, is an angry boy, who is despised by all the villagers for being of mixed blood (half Atlantean and half Lemurian). However he does have a few close friends that see past the prejudices and support him through his struggles. Although Kieko is not from any race that the reader can acknowledge it is easy to identify with the character\u2019s feelings of not fitting in and being emotionally torn. Kieko dreams of learning the art of Ki Sword and becoming a great warrior and eventually the village priest, Shinsei, takes him to the Kadek Temple where he begins his training. Under the guidance of the priest Kieko learns how to control his temper through his studies of medicinal and culinary arts, calligraphy, meditation, and ultimately, the art of Ki Sword. After a few months of living in the temple Kieko evolves into a young man who is ready to leave and face the armies of the Atlantean Empire and begin his adventure. Mr. Composto intends to write five more books to complete the Dark Legacy Cycle; three books for the next series entitled, Legacy of Light, and a single book, Legacy of One, to complete this epic story. By buying Mr. Composto\u2019s book you will not only support and encourage him to keep writing but you will also get to experience a truly great novel. ...more I originally started out with the intro book: Dark Legacy: The End of the Kai, which is basically the first 1/4 of this book. After reading through the incredible blend of fantasy and sci-fi, mixed with Eastern philosophies, I had to buy the full book and finish it. Without getting into details of the story, the book starts out with a flowing, poetic writing style which allows the reader to gain a lot of understanding about the world the author is envisioning, and draws the reader into the story. I originally started out with the intro book: Dark Legacy: The End of the Kai, which is basically the first 1/4 of this book. After reading through the incredible blend of fantasy and sci-fi, mixed with Eastern philosophies, I had to buy the full book and finish it. Without getting into details of the story, the book starts out with a flowing, poetic writing style which allows the reader to gain a lot of understanding about the world the author is envisioning, and draws the reader into the story. From there the reader is transitioned into a more tranquil story line to build the foundation of the rest of the series, and in the last part of the first book the writing crescendo's in fast paced storytelling, and leaves the reader at the end wanting more. I'm anxiously awaiting the second book which is due out next year. ...more Picked up The End of the Kai for free on Kobo and enjoyed it ... got Book I: Trinity - an epic and absorbing read with an Asian twist. Liked Kieko's relationship with Kira, Aiko, and his teacher, Shinsei. Not only does this book offer a beginning to what could become a new epic story worthy of endless numbers of fans, it exposes humanity at multiple levels. As readers, we can identify with most of the characters at one point or another, thus creating an opportunity to explore our own dark, rejected, and neglected facets coming to terms with ourselves as a whole unit. On a less personal note; it is a story that surprises the reader at every turn. Entertaining, different, NEW. Totally worth it! Can Not only does this book offer a beginning to what could become a new epic story worthy of endless numbers of fans, it exposes humanity at multiple levels. As readers, we can identify with most of the characters at one point or another, thus creating an opportunity to explore our own dark, rejected, and neglected facets coming to terms with ourselves as a whole unit. On a less personal note; it is a story that surprises the reader at every turn. Entertaining, different, NEW. Totally worth it! Can't wait for the story to continue. Hopefully we'll see a sequel soon. Review originally posted by Manu M. on Amazon.com.br on April 24, 2013 @ http://www.amazon.com.br/Dark-Legacy-... ...more Thanks first reads. Very intriguing tale, well written! (received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads) Dark Legacy: Book I - Trinity includes both a short novella ( The End of the Kai ) plus the first book of the Legacy series (additional books are still being written). Because I could read it on my ereader for free I also downloaded The End of the Kai and read (and reviewed) that. The End of the Kai includes the novella plus the first three chapters of Trinity . The End of the Kai is an interesting story and well written, however it leaves you wanting to know more about what will happen (or had happ Dark Legacy: Book I - Trinity includes both a short novella ( The End of the Kai ) plus the first book of the Legacy series (additional books are still being written). Because I could read it on my ereader for free I also downloaded The End of the Kai and read (and reviewed) that. The End of the Kai includes the novella plus the first three chapters of Trinity . The End of the Kai is an interesting story and well written, however it leaves you wanting to know more about what will happen (or had happened since this all was supposed to have taken place thousands of years ago). The transition from The End of the Kai to Trinity was a hard cut and a little awkward if you don't realize that Trinity starts a completely new, mostly unrelated story. Elements from The End of the Kai don't really come into play in Trinity until the very end of the book. I'm hoping that more of the The End of the Kai story will be revealed in the other, forthcoming Dark Legacy books. Occasionally in The End of the Kai I found some of the characters, scenarios, and story a little confusing. It jumps right into a lot going on and there is a very complex social, political, and religious structure that is apparent in the Atlantean society, but for the most part the information unfolded in a way that wasn't too overwhelming. I do wish there was more substance to the whole story though to give more background, flush out the characters a little more, and continue past where the novella ended. Trinity starts a completely new story set in a small village on the fictional(?) lost continent of Lemuria. At first I was wanting to know more about Atlantis, but quickly I got engrossed in Kieko's story. This is a story of a boy becoming a man, learning about mysterious forces in the universe and his relationship to a dark past through the teachings of a wizened master who encourages Kieko to let go of anger and darkness and embrace peace and light. There are plenty of similar plots abounding in literature, both past and current. But the most obvious parallels are the Star Wars stories, particularly the original trilogy that tells the story of Luke's rise from humble farmer to Jedi Master. But this is definitely not Star Wars. You won't read this and think \"Hey, he ripped of George Lucas\", but you will read it and think \"That's kind of like when Luke...\" It's enough to make you start thinking about how this story would look awesome on the big screen. At times the pace of the book is very slow, but it never felt unnecessarily slow. As Kieko goes through his training and learning if the Ki philosophies you feel like you are also learning and going through similar training exercises. Concepts are repeated, but not in the condescending way some authors have of trying to make sure their readers don't forget what's happening, but in a way that makes you feel as if you are progressing through the training process with Kieko. It really is a fascinating ride and though provoking as well. There are dozens of pages of glossary and character lists, and I read most of them and skimmed the rest. I'm not sure they were absolutely necessary since, as I said, most of the information is presented gradually enough to catch on, but it is nice to have the guides for reference. One thing I noticed is that some terms say to reference the guides in other books of the Dark Legacy series, books that haven't been written yet, so that was a little weird. Overall, this was a great read. There were a few typos and grammatical mistakes; more than in a book from a typical mainstream publisher, but not enough to detract from my enjoyment of the story. Domenico has an excellent tale to tell and tells it very well. I am anxiously awaiting further installments in the Dark Legacy series. >> As a disclaimer, I did receive my copy of Trinity for free via a Goodreads giveaway. I don't know the author, however, and my review was not influenced by winning the book. << Also, I found these other reviews to be very insightful, and right on the mark. They expound on a few of the characteristics that I mentioned: - Mitchell's Review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... - Frank's Review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ...more To begin with, I've received this book in a First Reads giveaway. My first ever experience with such a thing. While it may have gone wrong, this turned out to be a pleasant endeavor. For a self-published author, this work is admirable - Composto-Hart has constructed a complex fantastical world that promises a lot of adventures. The novel is preceded by an additional story, The End of the Kai (also published on its own), which appears to have no direct connection to the novel itself, but which wil To begin with, I've received this book in a First Reads giveaway. My first ever experience with such a thing. While it may have gone wrong, this turned out to be a pleasant endeavor. For a self-published author, this work is admirable - Composto-Hart has constructed a complex fantastical world that promises a lot of adventures. The novel is preceded by an additional story, The End of the Kai (also published on its own), which appears to have no direct connection to the novel itself, but which will prove to be essential in the end. We are introduced into the fantastic world of the city-galaxy Atlas, capital of the Atlantean Empire, with its eight towers that served as residences of the Royal Families and Oracle King and Queen. We see this world from different perspectives - first, from that of a dove that flies dazzled above the city, secondly through the eyes of a poor boy that lives as an outcast, thirdly from the perspective of a black crow, one of the many deemed guardians of Atlas. We are acquainted with the amazing Atlantean Royal Chamber where the Oracle Queen presides, with the High Kai Guardians and Priestesses that serve the Queen. But we are not kept in this world for long, because what we witness in this short story are the last moments of the Kai Order - the evil Maniok has come to destroy the last bastion that stands on his way to absolute power. One High Kai Guardian will have a different destiny though, as he flees with his Priestess, who is pregnant with their child. In Trinity - the first book in the Dark Legacy series - the narration moves to a different place and time - the peaceful village of Ikishi, in the Kingdom of Lemuria. The story focuses on Kieko, a boy of mixed blood who lives with his mother. He has no memory of his father, a man from Atantis, but because of him, they are almost considered outcasts. Kieko has only a few friends, among which there is the beautiful Kira (there is a complicated, youthful love story here) and the wise Ki priest Shinsei, friend of his father. Kieko's life is far from easy, as he is despised and shunned in Ikishi, being constantly bullied by a gang of boys, most of all by Aiko, whose mother was killed by Atlantean soldiers. Trinity is mainly a coming-of-age novel, dealing with Kieko's hard life in Ikishi, his conflicts with Aiko and his gang, his awkward relationship with Kira and his struggle to find out more about the mysterious life of his father, whom Kieko suspects to have been a Kai Guardian. He wants to be trained by Shinsei and learn the Ki sword, but the priest won't accept him so easily; first, Kieko has to solve his k\u014dan - he must name the face of his enemy. My favorite part of the book was the middle, detailing the training of Kieko under Shinsei, the Ki priest. This part was gripping, well written, full of interesting ideas. I almost felt like I was a pupil of Shinsei myself. The author was most probably inspired by the Zen teachings of Buddhism, revolving around the practices of meditation and k\u014dan. I loved the idea of emptying your mind of any thought concerning past or future, and living only in the present. When you cook, you only cook and put away any thought that is not related to the activity. If you feel anger or hatred, you step away and observe the thought, analyzing its causes. You are cooking, and only that, so why the need to think of things that have nothing to do with cooking? It is a waste of energy to be caught up in the poisons of the mind. The present is all there is. So be fully aware of it. \"How am I to let go my anger, Master Shinsei?\" \"How do you let go a hot coal?\" \"By dropping it, Master Shinsei. But, it's not the same. It's not that easy to simply drop my anger or any other emotion that arises.\" \"Ah, because of thought, because of mind. Your mind keeps you in the past. It keeps you away from the present. If you cease all thoughts, if you defeat mind, then you are completely, and totally,in the present. And in the present you simply are without any attachments to feelings or thoughts.\" In this middle part, I didn't mind the repetition of various teachings, because I found them quite interesting. I also loved the idea of focusing on the surrounding sounds and managing to hear the silence between them. If you are not in a state of no-mind, you are in a state of mind. Mind is bound to time, and time is an illusion of the mind. If you are not watchful of your mind, if you believe you are your mind, then it is the mind that is controlling your actions, feelings, and emotions. Thus, in that way there is pain within you, pain that was created by your mind through its resistance-judgment-of the present. Mind cannot survive without time, and the present is devoid of time. This novel has several weak points, though, and I'll detail them here. What bothered me the most (and it happens with famous writers, too) were the lengthy dialogues and descriptions that dealt with mundane activities. Nobody is interested in hearing what I talk with my mother/boyfriend/whoever, unless we are sharing some secrets. The same happened here: I was reading some dialogues and descriptions that didn't interest me in the least, as they held no actual importance to the plot development. Because of those I've lost interest several times and started to skim through pages. Should they have been cut out or reduced to a couple of phrases, it would have done the novel much good overall. Secondly, there was too much emphasis on secondary characters, some of which (view spoiler) [died in the end (for example, Raki-ka) (hide spoiler) ] . I was not so keen to find out about their lives, let alone read entire pages about their development. I've perceived this just as unimportant as the lengthy dialogues, burdening the pace of the novel and diluting its message. Moreover, some of the secondary characters were lost along the way and I had no idea what happened to them (I'm thinking mostly about Taka, from Aiko's gang). In the opening part, The End of the Kai , there is also a boy who gives the false impression to be a main character, but he soon disappears within the shadows he has come from (maybe he will resurface in the next books, although I'm doubting that). Just a side note: there was an interesting description of how to make mochi cakes (boiled rice beaten into a sticky paste), which brought the memory of a video that might be just what the author is speaking of (I hope it's working, it's really funny - the dramatic way in which Japanese make rice cake): http://www.wimp.com/ricemaking/ ...more I won this book from First Reads. Looks like a good book. Thank you. I will read soon. I think this book was excellent, there so much detail at first I had to set it down but as soon as I picked it back up I was immediately engulfed by the world and it's characters, it can seem intimidating at first but its worth it & I will definitely recommend this to others (given for free to review by goodreads) Been awhile since Ive come across a fantasy book with such a cool beginning - that being The End of the Kai portion. The writing style is almost poetic at times. Cool book with an interesting story line. Definitely kept me entertained. Been awhile since I\u00b4ve come across a fantasy book with such a cool beginning - that being The End of the Kai portion. The writing style is almost poetic at times. Cool book with an interesting story line. Definitely kept me entertained. ...more A philosophical sci-fi/fantasy book with unique leanings toward the art of Zen Buddhism. I enjoyed reading this book from start to finish. My daughter says awesome read!! After reading Dark Legacy: The End of the Kai I thought that was a prequel. Nah, it was just the first few chapters of Trinity. Which was disappointing because you lose the first 1/4 or so of the book that way. Oh well. The end of the Kai was exciting and drama filled and then the entire Trinity felt like a very very long character development book for what assume is to be the main character. It was a huge teaching moment in Buddhism which caught me off guard since the timeline has you think tha After reading Dark Legacy: The End of the Kai I thought that was a prequel. Nah, it was just the first few chapters of Trinity. Which was disappointing because you lose the first 1/4 or so of the book that way. Oh well. The end of the Kai was exciting and drama filled and then the entire Trinity felt like a very very long character development book for what assume is to be the main character. It was a huge teaching moment in Buddhism which caught me off guard since the timeline has you think that Atlantis eons ago perished but somehow the Buddhist religion was around kicking, and of course thrived another few thousand years later. I'm.. just not sure about how that timeline meshes since it wants to be some sort of story driven contiguation of today (our today.. the book is phrased as some ancient old womans story to a modern someone..). Ok though, I digress. The characters they portray are pretty good. Some stereotypes make you cringe since they seem to be driven from classic masculine, feminine, brother v brother, rival v rival, father v son, type of archetypes but you can get your head around the characters driving factors. You have infact the entire book for them to be repeated to you over and over. Then the end, the last 40 pages or so, are the most exciting and intense and then.. scene.. so this was published in 2011, where is book 2? Usually I don't read series until they are done because my brain can't keep up with characters over years. I hope Domenico is going to release book 2 soon or else like the Thinking Tree, my thoughts may join the sea.. ;) Read this with a highlighter, lots of great buddhist ideals gone through that you'll take to heart. Not sure if you should read it for the arc yet, book 2 must be born! ...more Dark Legacy: Trinity, is a fantasy novel with a blend of science fiction that will appeal to both preferences in readers. It is a coming of age story of Kieko, son of the last Kai guardian of Atlantis. He is trained by the priest, Shinsei, as the relentless force that took Atlantis draws closer to his peaceful home of Ikishi. The oldest mystics of the Orient against the pinnacle of human kind--Atlantis, fused together seamlessly. When the technology of science fiction clashes with a primitive cul Dark Legacy: Trinity, is a fantasy novel with a blend of science fiction that will appeal to both preferences in readers. It is a coming of age story of Kieko, son of the last Kai guardian of Atlantis. He is trained by the priest, Shinsei, as the relentless force that took Atlantis draws closer to his peaceful home of Ikishi. The oldest mystics of the Orient against the pinnacle of human kind--Atlantis, fused together seamlessly. When the technology of science fiction clashes with a primitive culture, sparks fly. When it collides with rich characters who are rooted deep in their spirituality, then it becomes a battle of absolute willpower against a merciless evil. Add just the right touch of vivid detail, characters and story, and you have this epic tale that is hard to put down. Kieko, Aiko and Kira are all lovable and thoroughly entertaining to follow to where their youth takes them next. As they become adults together, their trials and tribulations grow a powerful and unbreakable bond that the reader can easily connect with and follow alongside. Domenico Italo Composto-Hart has made a most impressive step into the fantasy and science fiction genre. This first book of the Dark Legacy series will join my shelf alongside my all-time favorites. Review originally posted by Wist on Amazon.com on January 17, 2012 @ http://www.amazon.com/gp/customer-rev... ...more I had a great time reading this book, found the story catchy and most of the characters deep and easy to empathize with. Martial arts & meditation combined with legendary ancient civilizations is definitely something fresh in the science fiction & fantasy genre. Also the way the author describes certain scenes, like the life in the Temple, I think is splendid and extremely detailed and has definitely brought peace and precise imagery to my reading. As a constructive critic, if I may, just I had a great time reading this book, found the story catchy and most of the characters deep and easy to empathize with. Martial arts & meditation combined with legendary ancient civilizations is definitely something fresh in the science fiction & fantasy genre. Also the way the author describes certain scenes, like the life in the Temple, I think is splendid and extremely detailed and has definitely brought peace and precise imagery to my reading. As a constructive critic, if I may, just pointing out that sometimes it is obvious where the author gets his inspiration from, e.g. classics such as Blade Runner or Star Wars. Looking forward to Book II. ...more Amazing and this is only part one. I am so glad I got the chance to read this book because it is so amazing. I was enraptured by the tale and the characters. Reading the prologue was literally just the beginning and it started the boom exceptionally well. I definitely recommend this book to everyone who likes a little fantasy and a bit of sci-fi in their books What I read originally was a sample, rather than the entire book, not realizing the author's download offer was not the whole enchilada. Composto-Hart provided me the rest of the book, which I have tried to finish, but will not, as I found it lacking from the want of a good editor. It's not that the writing is bad or there are a lot of typos. Neither is true, but the lack of editing is reflected in the pace of the story and the plotting. The begining of the actual story is compelling, but it quic What I read originally was a sample, rather than the entire book, not realizing the author's download offer was not the whole enchilada. Composto-Hart provided me the rest of the book, which I have tried to finish, but will not, as I found it lacking from the want of a good editor. It's not that the writing is bad or there are a lot of typos. Neither is true, but the lack of editing is reflected in the pace of the story and the plotting. The begining of the actual story is compelling, but it quickly bogs down to the extent that at one point I began to doubt which character was the protagonist--Kieko, the young man, or Shinsei, his mentor. The author confesses to having worked on this novel for 14 years and says many of his (young) readers find it fascinating. I don't doubt either statement, but working on one book for so long without \"adult supervision\" has resulted in a book which moves at a glacial pace. It also suffers from emotional overload to the extent that each scene requires an emotional component. The result is an overwrought young man learning from an overwrought teacher. There are also unrealistic portrayals of physical capacity. For example, the hero is beaten up badly by four other young men, but minutes later is able to participate in a contest of physical strength and skill. In terms of young people identifying with the hero and the path he must take to achieving status as a Ki warrior, that's wonderful, and there's a chance this book could become a cult favorite among a certain group of male teens, but if Composto-Hart seeks a broader audience, he needs to transition from a writer who cares more about putting every ounce of his heart and soul into his books and begin to care more about his readers few of whom will stick around long enough to find out who his protagonist is and what he's fighting for. ...more Full disclosure before I get to the review. I did not finish this book as it wasn't to my tastes. I completed about 20-25% of the book. Unfortunately for me this book was the classic example of style over substance. The plot is repeatedly put on hold for things that add little more than set dressing for the setting. I did not feel an attachment to the characters and the style that was shown was, to me, often over-written did not draw me in either. This book was not my cup of tea but that boils dow Full disclosure before I get to the review. I did not finish this book as it wasn't to my tastes. I completed about 20-25% of the book. Unfortunately for me this book was the classic example of style over substance. The plot is repeatedly put on hold for things that add little more than set dressing for the setting. I did not feel an attachment to the characters and the style that was shown was, to me, often over-written did not draw me in either. This book was not my cup of tea but that boils down to personal taste. As such if you prefer a tale of whimsy, and you want an interesting setting to be the focus over plot progression and tight pacing I think this book would be right up your alley. To the author I will say that I hope they continue to write as their passion is easily felt through their writing and my negative comments come from a reader with different tastes and not as a professional critic. ...more Dark Legacy: Trinity is the the first foray into the world of SF by Domenico Composto. To describe the book with a single word: staggering. Detailing the clash of two civilizations, one technogenic and the other spiritual, this book is told from the perspective of a child thrust into the rural world of Lemuria, grappling with his Atlantean past. The book details the coming of age of Kieko (the child), as the two nations clash. The characters are believable, the setting is seamlessly integrating f Dark Legacy: Trinity is the the first foray into the world of SF by Domenico Composto. To describe the book with a single word: staggering. Detailing the clash of two civilizations, one technogenic and the other spiritual, this book is told from the perspective of a child thrust into the rural world of Lemuria, grappling with his Atlantean past. The book details the coming of age of Kieko (the child), as the two nations clash. The characters are believable, the setting is seamlessly integrating fantasy with reality, but the most compelling factor of the book is the atmosphere: at times frustrating, foreboding or alternately light and full of hope. At times, the book is nigh on impossible to put down. A \"must read.\" Review originally posted by Ivan Kozlov on Amazon.com on January 15, 2012 @ http://www.amazon.com/gp/cdp/member-r... ...more<---C>Domenico Italo Composto-Hart</---C>", "Title": "Trinity"},
