{"Comments": "Before I begin this, I'd like to say that it's a rant. For those of you who don't like ranting- Don't read it. I actually happened to love this book, but I'm just a tad mad at the ending at the moment. Dear <---A>Christopher Paolini</---A>, How. Could. You. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ You wrote four MONSOROUS TOMES of creative genuis, and you couldn't even SPARE A SENTENCE for <---C>Eragon</---C> and Arya! I don't care if you're the author, and you have your little creative steaks of whimsy, but it's just damn logical that they shou Before I begin this, I'd like to say that it's a rant. For those of you who don't like ranting- Don't read it. I actually happened to love this book, but I'm just a tad mad at the ending at the moment.<---F> Dear Christopher Paolini, How</---F>. Could. You. (view spoiler) [ You wrote four MONSOROUS TOMES of creative genuis, and you couldn't even SPARE A SENTENCE for Eragon and Arya! I don't care if you're the author, and you have your little creative steaks of whimsy, but it's just damn logical that they should be together- They even admitted it themselves!!! And okay, fine, maybe they didn't have to traipse off to some mystical,<---M> magical other land together</---M>, but a kiss would have been nice?! Or even some form of romance other than... well... I CAN'T EVEN COMPARE IT TO ANYTHING BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T PUT ANY ERAGON/ARYA ROMANCE IN THERE! And then you had the AUDACITY, to go and hint at the Nasuada/Murtagh romance and then PULL IT OUT FROM RIGHT UNDER OUR NOSES! NO! THAT IS NOT RIGHT! I want a re-write of the ending! I know that your plot was amazingly brilliant and that all the details were intricate and perfect. To be honest I couldn't help but love every single damn page of that stupid story- but to me the ending just wasn't right! Thus, it is with much regret that I invite everyone who was as dissatisfied as me to a bonfire that uses the last 80 or so pages of <+++>Inheritance</+++> as kindling (I WARNED YOU PAOLINI!) ... But not really. Because I would never destroy books, and I don't actually own the copy I'm reading. (hide spoiler) ] Sincerely, A Very Angry Fan. ...more <+++>Inheritance</+++> Book 4 of the Inheritance Cycle By Christopher Paolini A Review by Eric Allen After his early success, Christopher Paolini set to the final book of his trilogy. Unfortunately, for everyone involved, the outline he'd written for the third book wasn't going to fit in a single volume. He decided to split it in two. I have to question why, but I'll get into that later in the review. Now we've finally come to the end with the fourth and final book of the series. Was it a good ending? Well, to Inheritance Book 4 of the Inheritance Cycle By Christopher Paolini A Review by Eric Allen After his early success, Christopher Paolini set to the final book of his trilogy. Unfortunately, for everyone involved, the outline he'd written for the third book wasn't going to fit in a single volume. He decided to split it in two. I have to question why, but I'll get into that later in the review. Now we've finally come to the end with the fourth and final book of the series. Was it a good ending? Well, to be blunt, no, it wasn't. The best I can say is that it IS the end. Thar be spoilers ahead, be ye warned. I'm not really a fan of this series. I saw the movie and thought it was one of the worst things I'd ever seen. A friend of mine told me that the book was way different and much better. He was right on both counts, though I still didn\u2019t like it much. It was generic, not exceptionally well written, and it blatantly stole from Star Wars so much I had to wonder how Paolini didn't get sued for it. He uses some very awkward, repetative, and inappropriate wording in his imagery, and lingers on describing completely unimportant things as though they are the holy grail. One example from this book is something like three entire pages devoted to the fingernails of a character whose name we never even learn. Why am I still reading this series? Because Paolini, much to my regret, did make a villain compelling enough that I really wanted to see how he would be defeated. One thing I can say about him is that the quality of his writing does improve with each book. That is like saying of two hot pokers in the eye, one of them burns a little less, but at least he's improving his skills, such as they are. Also, you've really got to hand it to anyone that can so consistently steal from other, more creative people and call it his own work with a straight face. That takes balls my friend. This book was both too long, and too short. That may seem rather paradoxical, but it's true. I would say that at least 70% of this book was padding that was completely irrelevant to the story, and the 30% that actually had anything to do with the story was so underdeveloped because of it that it felt rushed and unsatisfying. The padding made it far too long, and the lack of attention paid to the relevant plot elements makes it far to too short. It\u2019s neither a consistently good book, nor is it consistently bad. It does have some decent moments, albeit, most of them were shamelessly lifted directly from Star Wars, but if you\u2019re going to rip something off, it might as well be quality material. Inheritance begins with several very one-sided battles that are full of Paolini telling us that there's tension rather than actually building it into the story. The Varden are taking cities from the King on their way toward Uru'Baen. Unfortunately, these are largely completely irrelevant to the story, and basically do nothing but add padding. When your heroes can literally walk over a city wall, wade through an army, waltz into the lord's stronghold, and intimidate the soldiers there simply by the power of their own awesomeness rather than having to fight them, and come out on the other side with little more than a few scratches that they instantly magically heal, what's the point? They're never in anything resembling peril, and that makes these battle scenes extremely boring. I equate the first 300 pages or so of this book to shining a laser pointer in front of a cat, or jingling keys over a baby. It adds nothing to the story, but entertains the easily amused. It feels very Michael Bay-ish. Explosions do not equal a well thought out story, and neither do one-sided battles where there is litterally not one ounce of tension, because the characters are so much stronger than the ones that they are fighting. These sorts of things may dazzle those who don't care about anything deeper than pointless action, like anyone who claims to be a Michael Bay fan, but they'll leave everyone else feeling cheated. One such battle involves Roran riding a horse halfway across the kingdom to win a battle in less than a week. Why? What was the point to that? It served no purpose to the plot, the city wasn't anywhere near where the characters were headed, obviously, and Roran did not grow as a character during this excursion. After winning, he just went right back to the main army where he was to begin with, having learned nothing, and not having been strengthened by his ordeal. We didn't see any new sides of him, and the entire thing is mentioned in passing maybe twice during the rest of the book. Why? Why did we need to spend 100+ pages on this? We didn't, because it was completely irrelevant to the plot. The only thing of note that happens in the first 300 pages is the acquisition of the completely unpronouncable Spear of Dues Ex Machina, which could very easily have been obtained at Dras-Leona, leaving this entire beginning out all together. Or better yet, not at all, allowing the characters to use their own strength to triumph in the end rather than relying on magical artifacts that basically fall out of the freaking sky into their hands. After that considerably bloated section of filler, the book's actual plot begins with the siege of Dras-Leona, where Murtagh and Thorn have arrived in defense. As the Varden wait outside the walls, Eragon trains against the elves with his sword, and with the disembodied Dragon Glaedr in strengthening his mind, basically relearning things he has spent the last two books learning. A lot of nothing interesting happens, and then a way into the city is found. In comparison to the rest of the book, the conquest of Dras-Leona is a relatively well done, and exciting diversion from the hundreds of pages of meh yet to come. A few horrors befall those sent inside to open the gates, placing characters that were basically gods in the first 300 pages in real mortal peril, and the battle itself is rather entertaining if you can turn your brain off for most of it and just roll with Paolini's complete lack of skill in writing action scenes. Pointless gore does not make an action scene exciting, especially if it is not realistic, serving no real purpose except to distract from the fact that there's no real skill put into crafting a compelling battle scene full of tension and horror. It sets the Varden up to strike at the very heart of the kingdom, Uru'Baen, where Galbatorix sits waiting for their arrival. The defeated Murtagh attacks in the night after the victory and kidnaps Nasuada, leader of the Varden, taking her back to be personally questioned and tortured by the king, in another extremely long and irrelevant plotline that ultimately leads nowhere. Again, why? Why do we need 100+ pages of Nasuada, a relatively MINOR character being tortured? What does this add to the story? I could see if maybe she turned to the figurative dark side, or if she pretended to so she could betray the king at the most opportune moment, giving Eragon the chance he needs to defeat him. But no, she is bound and gagged during the entire final confrontation, contributing nothing except a sudden case of Damsel in Distress Syndrome. Eragon didn't even realize she was there at first. Why was so much time and attention paid to a completely irrelevant subplot like this when there were elements of the actual story that needed so much more fleshing out? And yes, I know this helps Murtagh to change his true name. I call this irrelevant because all of the relevant character changes happen in HIM. He is the most important character during this part and we focus on HER instead. Therefore, this whole section of the book was pointless. Following the business model of the Underpants Gnomes, Eragon becomes the leader of the Varden because \u2026 and leaves to go hunting down a prophecy that may hold the key to defeating the king. This is another part of the story that, in comparison to the rest, is relatively well done. Eragon flies to the old stronghold of the Riders, seeing for himself the grandeur that was, and the ruin left by their fall. There\u2019s quite a bit of history given, and some decent character development. However, it feels very rushed, and they find a treasure trove of dues ex machina, that basically gives Eragon the ability to stand up to the king without really trying very hard to find a way to defeat or outsmart him. Again, why was so much of this book spent on irrelevant filler, when this part was in dire need of fleshing out? Eragon races to Uru\u2019Baen and the final battle begins. He enters the city with some elves whilst the army attacks the walls, drawing the defenders. They then sneak past many rather silly traps. The final confrontation is very unsatisfying and rather abrupt. Rather than outsmarting, converting, or utterly destroying the antagonist on his own strength, Eragon relies on the strength of others and literally pulls the solution to defeating the king right out of his ass on the spot without a single prior word or thought on the method. We saw him continuously worry about how to beat the king, but he never actually comes up with any real ideas, so when he does it on the fly, and drawing heavily upon the strength and knowledge of others, instead of his own, it feels as though we\u2019re being cheated. Eragon is not developed well enough as a character for Paolini to pull this off believably. Four books have built up to this moment, and it was completely ruined because he doesn't ever show us any hints of spontaneous brilliance, such as it is, in Eragon's character beforehand. He basically became a different character entirely for a few seconds in order to defeat Galbatorix The book then spends far too long tying up every. Single. Loose. End. Imaginable. And it is EXTREMELY boring. Yes, your ending should tie up loose ends, but really, some of these should have been addressed earlier in the story so you don\u2019t have them all dumped at the end in a jumble that\u2019s frankly a chore to read through, and also, I don\u2019t know about you, but I actually kind of enjoy when some loose ends are left. It gives you something to ponder over when all is said and done. This ending also heavily steals directly from Return of the King, so badly, in fact, that Tolkien must be rolling in his grave. And there is a huge difference in storytelling here as well. Where Paolini made sure that every single loose end imaginable was addressed in the actual book, making it hugely boring, and a complete waste of a reader's time, Tolkien left most of that junk for the appendices, where a reader didn't actually have to read them, or could skim through and find the specific afterward event that he or she was curious about. The Good? There were some passably good moments in this book, the events leading up to the battle of Dras-Leona, and the battle itself were ok, as was the trip to the ruined city of the Riders. Although my like of these sections of the book may be largely based on comparing them to the rest of the book, rather than on them actually being good. They really stand out amongst the rest of the book as they are both relevant to the plot, and by the time they rolled around I was literally screaming for ANYTHING relevant. Paolini, as an author, has made some very big steps in developing his talents since his first book, and this one is almost passably adequate, if not for all of the irrelevant filler. In this book, he did seem to actually try taking a few steps away from his shameless stealing from other more talented authors, and the book was much better for it. Though he did return to it in force by the end. He could almost be considered a decent writer if he'd only just put some effort into coming up with his own ideas for stories. The Bad? The amount of time spent on story arcs for minor characters that ultimately lead nowhere is extremely annoying. The core story needs a vast amount of further developing, and instead of doing so, Paolini wasted hundreds of pages on Nasuada\u2019s storyline, which dead-ends in no actual payoff, and Glaedr\u2019s storyline about overcoming depression and coming to terms with his new life as an inanimate object. Did we really need this? No. These are minor characters that really don\u2019t play a very large part in, or contribute terribly much to, the story, and to spend so much time on them when there were more important things that didn\u2019t get the attention they needed was just plain stupid. The ugly? Filler. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever seen an author spend so much time of a book this massive spinning his wheels on storylines that had no point at all to the actual story. And in this case, I\u2019m not blaming the author. When he outlined this book he was fifteen years old. The one the blame really falls to is the editor. I listened to the audiobook while at work, and there is an interview at the end between the editor and Paolini, in which she makes incredibly clear that she did not do her job on this book AT ALL. Rather than sending this unfinished mess back to the author with notes saying 70% of this is irrelevant and needs to be dropped completely or developed further to the point that it is relevant, she basically spent the entire time squeeing over it like an excited fangirl. She's probably a Michael Bay fan too. The job of the editor is basically to coax the absolute best out of the writer. They are the ones that understand the mechanics of storytelling and grammar, and tell the writer what work still needs to be done. She failed at that spectacularly. This book is unfinished, and rather than pointing it out to the author like she was supposed to, this idiot encouraged more of it. She dropped the ball so badly that she should be fired on the spot. If 70% of the book is completely irrelevant to the plot, and can be cut out without even changing the rest of the book to make up for the absence, it\u2019s incomplete. It needs to be cut. Everything up to the siege of Dras-Leona can be completely dropped without missing a single thing of importance, the entire storylines about Glaedr and Nasuada can be dropped without missing a single thing of importance, and almost everything after Eragon visits Brom\u2019s grave, and more than a few things before, can also be dropped without missing a single thing of importance. The fault of this is partly on the author for not really knowing how to lay out a proper storyline where everything is relevant, but the vast majority of the blame lies on the editor. She came at it as a fan, rather than as a professional. She should have sent it back saying to drop all of the irrelevance, and develop the rest of the plot to the point that the reliance on dues ex machina for the climax is minimal to none. The final book of the trilogy was split in two, Brisingr and Inheritance. Why? Brisingr suffered from some of the same problems of irrelevance that Inheritance did. If everything I mentioned above was dropped from Inheritance, and the 300 page long tangent about the dwarf king in Brisingr had been dropped as it was ultimately pointless as well, this would have fit very easily into one novel. To make matters worse, he broke one of the ten commandments of writing in the previous book, which was a MAJOR problem in this one. Thou shalt not make thine villain so powerful that he cannot be defeated. Again, where was the editor. This is a huge flaw that should have been pointed out and fixed before the third book was even published. Now, there is literally no way AT ALL, that Eragon can triumph without resorting to dues ex machina and plot convenience. He did not learn and grow as a character until the point that he could defeat Galbatorix on his own merits. He used a very large stepping stool provided by others, pulled a baseball bat out of his ass, and hit the king over the head with it when he wasn\u2019t looking. The entire climax of this book is a complete failure that steals heavily from Return of the Jedi. Plus it takes place closer to the middle of the book than the end. Again, Paolini seems to have completely missed the entire point of the source material that he is ripping off. The duel at the end of Jedi was more about the talking, the temptation, the taunting, with occasional clashes of lightsabers as punctuation to the emotion, climaxing when Luke loses his temper and just starts wailing on Vader, leading him to the realization that he could, in fact, become like his father. This makes his final defiance of the emperor, tossing his weapon aside, all the more powerful, because he's felt the power that could be his if he joined the dark side of the force. This is a poorly xeroxed copy, with none of the meaning or emotion behind it, and no true victory over the enemy, only a hollow shell of one. There's nothing to tempt Eragon. The King keeps saying \"join me\" and Eragon keeps saying \"no\". It's meaningless, because there is no attempt by either side at temptation. He hasn't seen the power that could be his, he hasn't felt it flowing through him, he hasn't almost let it consume him and pulled back at the last possible moment in defiance. One thing I hate when authors do is they will have a character start explaining something and say \"ok, this is what I'm going to do...\" and then skip the rest of the conversation, leaving the reader in the dark on what is about to happen. It's a crap transitional element that no one should ever use in any medium EVER. Paolini did it at least four times AFTER THE FREAKING CLIMAX OF THE BOOK when there was really no need WHATSOEVER to withhold any information from the reader. He did it several times earlier in the book too. In fact, he did it so many times that I was literally yelling at the audiobook narrator by the end over it. Why? Why would you withold information like that, ESPECIALLY when you go on to reveal it almost immediately afterward. That's just lazy, pointless, and annoying storytelling in the guise of trying to be clever. In conclusion, this book suffers heavily from an editor that didn\u2019t do her job, and a writer with no concept of relevance. It is an ending to the series, and some people might call it good, though I think a lot more are going to call it bad. Most of this book is just Paolini jingling his keys at his readers, and really should have been cut or developed to the point that it actually was relevant to the plot. I think he felt he had to add filler to this book because there wasn\u2019t enough of the story left to make a full book after the split, but honestly, had he developed the areas of the story that needed it fully, rather than wasting his time with filler, this would have been a much better, if a little shorter, book. It\u2019s not the length that counts, it\u2019s the story. If it\u2019s told well, a great story can be finished in a page, rather than hundreds. I\u2019m giving this book two stars, because there were some genuinely entertaining moments in it, but they are bogged down by hundreds of pages of completely irrelevant crap that should have been cut. Paolini is steadily improving as an author, and if he ever decides to stop shamelessly stealing from other authors and figures out how to properly use imagery and metaphors, he might make a decent writer of himself someday. When 70% of the book can be completely removed without changing a single word in the rest with nobody noticing it, there is a huge problem that needs a great deal of addressing before the book is ready for publication. Shame on the editor for not seeing past her fandom to the fact that this book needed massive amounts of work still. Someone needs to sit her down and explain to her what, exactly, her job is, because she certainly isn't doing it. The best thing I can say about this series is THANK GOD IT'S OVER!!! I didn't completely hate it, but I wouldn't say I liked it either. Check out my other reviews. ...more Before Reading: I can't wait for this book to come out, but a tiny, miniscule part of me doesn't want it to come out because if it is not absolutly flipping fantastic, then I may have to kill myself. This final book needs to be better than the previous books, which is not an easy feat. Plus all the lose ends need to be tied up. I for one, am interested to see how Christopher Paolini pulls it all together. Two things I am hoping for in Inheritance: 1. We will see some action from Galbatorix. And Before Reading: I can't wait for this book to come out, but a tiny, miniscule part of me doesn't want it to come out because if it is not absolutly flipping fantastic, then I may have to kill myself. This final book needs to be better than the previous books, which is not an easy feat. Plus all the lose ends need to be tied up. I for one, am interested to see how Christopher Paolini pulls it all together. Two things I am hoping for in Inheritance: 1. We will see some action from Galbatorix. And I'm not talking about his army. I want him to actually talk or do something. The closest we've gotten is him talking/fighting through Murtagh's body. Everyone talks about his great evil, but I want to see him preform some. I. half believe he is just some terrifying legend made up by... someone, but obviously that's not true 'cause of the Murtagh thing. 1.5 The new Rider ISN'T Roran. It seems that when he couldn't accomplish magic, he would eventually be able to do it. I think that Roran is too ready to give up anything for Katerina. To me he seems dangerous, and not just in the big hammer way, either. 2. Something will happen in Eragon's love life. Maybe it will have to do with Arya, although she seems more like the wise best friend type than girlfriend. Two things that I expect to happen: 1. The Rider is Roran 1.25 The girl Eragon cursed, Eva, will cause trouble for him 1.5 Eragon and Saphira will kill Murtagh and Thorn OR Murtagh and Thorn will flee 2. There will be an epic battle between Eragon and Saphira, and Galbatorix and his dragon, whose winner will be decided by a small factor that seemed irrelevant but really was important What I wonder... How old is Nasuada (ruler of the Varden) anyway? When she was introduced, begging Saphira for Eragon's whereabouts, Paolini described her as a young woman. Who knows? The reason I wonder this is because in Brisinger, she meantions that she is feeling alone and wants a relashonship. Know of any other young bachelors looking for love? But of course we do not know her exact age, so I can't really single any man out for her. *Update* I jusrt re-read the second book and it says that she is a few years older than Eragon. November is so far away. I have to content myself with reading excerpts from Inheritance online. Wow, writing that down made me realize how much of a dork I am. Sigh. *Another Update* Speaking of excerpts, DOES RORAN DIE WHEN THE WALL FALLS??? This could change everything! Paolini wouldn't make the new Rider die, would he? Which means that the new Dragon Rider probably isn't Roran. WHO IS IT?! This discovory is going to keep me up for days of diliberation. Could Nasuada be the Rider? But she is the leader of the Varden, and they don't want one of the Undying to lead, which would mean she would have to give up her position. But I'm getting ahead of myself, (funny, that seems to happen alot) because what if the Rider is on Galbatorix's side? NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!! I really hope Eragon is able to steal the egg back. Maybe that was what they were trying to do when Roran got crushed (killed?) at the castle....... (sorry, I started hyperventilating) *Yet Another Update* I just reread Eragon, and the part where he gets his fortune told by Angela. It says he will have an epic romance with a woman of noble blood, and who is beautiful and powerful beyond measure. This is almost undoubtably Arya. Dang it. That takes a lot of fun out of my fantisising.What I don't get is the part where Eragon will never set foot in the Empire again. Doesn't it count as going into the Empire by rescuing Katrina from the Ra'zac? Hmmmmm... I just realized something; I need to get a life. But where's the fun in that? *I'm getting sick of the word Update* I was arguing with a friend last night about who the new Rider will be, (yes, we do argue about things that haven't even happened yet, thank you very much) and she offered a different opinion. Maybe it will be Arya? This hadn't occured to me. Some crazy obssesed book nerd I turned out to be. *shakes head exasperatedly at self* *Final Update, I swear* I just remembered something! When Eragon and Saphira are walking to Nasuda's tent in Brisinger, they come across Angela, who asks them to bless two travelers, an older woman and a young girl just becoming an adult. When Eragon asks for their names, the older woman says she prefers for him not to know. Eragon accepts this and blesses them. He notices that the woman has a well-armored mind. He asks Angela about them, and she says they are pilgrims on their own quest. I wonder if they will be metioned. That mention of them seemed very ominous... I feel tingly with excitment!!!! (Is that normal?) With all these freaking updates I won't even have room for the actual review. I may have to delete some of this pointless gibberish. My predictions have a nasty habit of not coming true, so I wouldn't put to much faith in them. But one thing I know is that Inheritance will be a good book. Whether it is good enough to end a series as amazing as the Inheritance Series has yet to be seen. 6 days... 5 days... 4 days... 3 days... 2 days... 1 day... IT'S OUT TODAY!!!!! OMFG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! After Reading: Wow. I very much doubt I could write a review that would do Inheritance justice. I'm seriously thinking this book has reached HPL (Harry Potter Level). That's impressive. A lot of my predictions were true (suprisingly, cosidering I was half delirious with giddiness when I wrote them) but a few were a bit off the mark. I won't give anything away. (I'm not a spoiler!) You'll have to read it yourself (or ask a spoiler to tell you- shameful way to get out of reading a book) to get the specific details, but I'll go over the basics. The Varden are attacking the Empire. Eragon and Saphira are still their only hope. Roran makes the impossible possible and captures a seemingly impenetrable city, earning him captain status. Glaedr starts training Eragon again. Something happens to Nasuada. Eragon becomes leader of the Varden. Eragon realizes that only he and Saphira remember the Rock of Kuthian, because some mysterious force is making everyone in Alegesia forget it. Even Solembum, the werecat who gave Eragon the advice to go to the Rock of Kuthian when all hope is lost, does not remember. Murtagh has a change of heart. Eragon and Saphira discover something about themselves. They find a way to possibly defeat Galbatorix. The Varden attack Uru'ben. Galbatorix has the ultimate power. Murtagh helps them. Galbatorix... That's all I can give up. Sorry if the after review wasn't as amusing as my pre-review, but I'm currently in just-finished-reading-an-amazing-book shock. Christopher Paolini did say that he will write more books in the world of Alegaesia in the future. ARE YOU FREAKING KIDDING ME? I just lived through these torturous past months waiting for Inheritance to come out and now you're telling me that I have to wait some more? He even goes so far as to say it could be 5 years before he writes it! That's it. I'm not reading his books anymore. Until I learn the title of his next one. Then I will become re-obsessed. Sigh. How fickle I am. Read Inheritance. It will knock your socks off! ...more I am desperately trying to think of one concise word which sums up the sheer misery of the last five and a half days, in which I had to slog my painful way through this 849-page monstrosity. The horrors of Inheritance are so vast and so many that I am unable to; instead, I find my mind reliving the pain, the awefulness, and the absolute boredom of this book. So maybe I should give up trying to express my feelings in one word - since it apparently cannot effectively be done - and just relate to y I am desperately trying to think of one concise word which sums up the sheer misery of the last five and a half days, in which I had to slog my painful way through this 849-page monstrosity. The horrors of Inheritance are so vast and so many that I am unable to; instead, I find my mind reliving the pain, the awefulness, and the absolute boredom of this book. So maybe I should give up trying to express my feelings in one word - since it apparently cannot effectively be done - and just relate to you the attrocities which face any Reader brave enough - or dumb enough, depending on what led to such an unforunate circumstance (I was being paid) - to pick Inheritance up. One thing I will say to my fellow critics - especially those being hired to read this book: you should demand hazard payment! Whatever small hopes I might have expressed in my review of Brisingr, they were all crushed. Character development? Ha! Plot twists? Dream on. Deepening of character relationships? If you even wanted that, then you are already way too much into this series and will probably stone me for this review. Character deaths? My mind is drawing a blank. Paolini promised surprises and unexpectedness of all kinds; the only thing that surprised me was that I managed to finish this fourth - and blessedly last - book in this torturous four-volume collection as quickly as I did. Every single thing that happens is predictable, - no psychics needed - right down to the end. But don't despair - there are some . . . surprises. Let's start with the worst of it, shall we? Now, I have often commented about the wrongness that prevades these books - in descriptions, word choice, and events. In Eldest, we were presented with a bathing scene where our oh-so-lovable hero shamelessly eyes his now-naked teacher (who is male, by the way) from head to toe, and the Author finds it necessary to inform us helpless Readers that Oromis has absolutely no hair on any of his person. I didn't think things could get much worse than that, and it doesn't, but my goodness, does it come close. There is a certain chapter in Inheritance which I have lovingly titled \"The Chest Hair Chapter.\" Ladies, if you were picturing Roran as a buff young man with a waxed chest, think again, because our beloved Author makes it quite clear in this section - and others - that Mr. Muscleman is as wooly as a baboon. Descriptions only get worse. In the same chapter, Roran is attacked by an assassin, and they fall into a heap at one point, trapped under a now-collapsed tent. Rather than expressing this in somesuch words as \"Roran and the assassin fell atop each other in a tangle of limbs,\" he instead chooses the phrase (and I quote directly): \"Roran continued to hold him as the life drained out of him, their embrace as intimate as any lovers.'\" I am sorry, but unless you are trying to creep your Readers out, an Author does not use such . . . wrong imagery, because the Reader's mind is going to immediately jump to unwanted thoughts. I can't tell you how much I squirmed in my chair and made faces; I even got a bad taste in my mouth and shrieked out loud in horror. However, among all of the chaos of just plain badly-written battle scenes (where Paolini attempts to be like Michael Cadnum and throws in gore, which doesn't succeed; there is a proper way to write gory scenes, and he didn't do it), looonngggg nightly character routines (we get to read about Eragon's regular spelling sessions!), and side travels that shouldn't take as much time as they do, the Reader is finally presented with a character! Enter, Mr. Fingernails! This part, by far, outweighed even The Chest Hair Chapter when it came to over-the-top unnecessary and ultimately vomit-enducing descriptions (though the number of flared nostrils nearly did me in). Page 414-416 is entirely devoted to describing, in microscopic detail, the clean and cultivated - yes, cultivated - fingernails of a character whose name you never even find out. And I hate to say it, but those fingernails were the only thing in that entire book which had even a smidgen of personality. By the end of page 416, I knew those fingernails so well that I was inclined to give them names, and the description is so in-your-face thorough that whenever the owner of the nails walked through the door, I no longer pictured a man, but a giant fingernail with googly eyes. And if that isn't scary enough, Inheritance abounds with monsters fit for your worst nightmares. Imagine, if you are brave enough, being attacked by . . . a giant snail!!!! No joke! Eragon is attacked by a giant snail, like the sort you find in your garden, which proves, once and for all, that Eragon really is a vegetable. If the Author inserted these snails for comic relief, it is a joke which falls flat and wastes time. It is plain stupid and adds to the length of an already-lengthy novel. But apparently Paolini has some fear of insects, because before the giant snails, he introduces us to maggots called - again, I am not joking - burrow grubs with \"obscene little mouths.\" I'm sorry, but there simply is nothing threatening about maggots. Spiders? Yes. Or even beetles, because there are actual existing beetles which are poisonous. But maggots?! The rest of the book is just disappointing - even for an anti-fan like myself. Anyone who was anticipating an even halfway decent stand-off between Galbatorix and Eragon will be really disappointed. Not surprisingly, the oh-so-evil King sets up a one-on-one duel between Eragon and Darth Vader - I mean, Murtagh. Also not surprising, Murtagh has a \"change of heart\" and does something that helps Eragon kill Galbatorix. I thought I would never say this, but for once I would have rather had a cliche hero-kills-villain death, as opposed to how Galbatorix really dies. I am sorry if I an spoiling the book for anyone, but presumebly if you're reading this, you either don't care or you've already read the book. Rather than a sword through the heart or a fireball to the head, Eragon and his accomanying Power Jellybeans kindly show Galbatorix the error in his ways, from when he stole a candycane from his baby sister at Christmas, to his tempting people to join his side with their favorite cookies. In the words of the book, Eragon \"makes him understand.\" Galbatorix is so overcome with all the awefulness he's committed that he spontaneously combusts. What do I need to add to this? What's wrong with this picture, people?! The villain - the evilest person in the book - is killed with sad memories!!!!! That brings up another point that plagued me throughout the book, and that is Galbatorix's supposed badness. When a country is controlled by a tyrant, there are signs of it: soldiers in cities, secret police, crushing taxes, executions, people dragged from their homes at night, furtive glances over one's shoulder, starving peasants, closed borders - just to name a few. If I walked through Alagaesia and a random citizen came up to me and said, \"Hey, our king is a tyrant!\" I would be flummoxed, because there seems to be no real evidence of an evil monarch. Every once in a while, the Author kind of mentions a few high taxes, just in passing, but there has never been any real indication of a controlling king. Heck, Eragon and Brom traveled the entire country in the first book with no Imperial soldiers stopping or attacking them! No bands of knights or whatever pillaging. Nothing! And I failed to see his massive evilness in Inheritance when he had occasion to talk with other characters. He, in fact, seems no more evil than the average evil person. He sits in his tower all day, twiddling his thumbs, admiring his riches, eating cookies, making the occasional threat, and watching instructional videos on his plasma-screen TV. Explain to me how that makes him the Big Cheese out of the evil people in the kingdom. All in all, Inheritance was as I anticipated - aweful, painful, and boring. If you wanted an effective way of torturing people - well, this would be it! No one could recover from the giant snails, maggots, fingernails, and chest hair - or the fact that the book ends a good seven times. All I can say is - thank God I am done with the Inheritance Cycle for good! And I feel for anyone who had to suffer as I did through it. Thumbs up to you critics who bulldozed your way to the 849th page, and didn't cringe too badly at the ending so obvioulsy stolen from The Lord of the Rings! I take my hat off to you! ...more This is my ABRIDGED VERSION of my essay/review about Inheritance by Christopher Paolini. Read the really long version here . So let's break format and start with what I liked . This was my favorite of the Inheritance series. It was enough less of a chore to read than Brisingr that I very nearly considered rating this two stars out of five. But then I realized I was thinking that way based on hating it less rather than liking it more, and figured that objectively I'm afraid it still deserves a bottom This is my ABRIDGED VERSION of my essay/review about Inheritance by Christopher Paolini. Read the really long version here . So let's break format and start with what I liked . This was my favorite of the Inheritance series. It was enough less of a chore to read than Brisingr that I very nearly considered rating this two stars out of five. But then I realized I was thinking that way based on hating it less rather than liking it more, and figured that objectively I'm afraid it still deserves a bottom-of-the-barrel rating. Sorry, fans. First off, Paolini corrected a number of things that he's had trouble with in previous volumes. He introduced horses that actually get tired. He introduced characters who dislike the protagonists and don't automatically get written as evil or get punished for it. He acknowledged that the elf Arya would be a better fighter than plucky farm boy Eragon owing to over a century of practice. He wrote a couple of conversations that felt like conversations . There was no Super Special explanation for why Cousin Roran was such a badass. Nobody got brought back to life in a cheesy touching resurrection. (view spoiler) [And Eragon didn't get married and live happily ever after (or turn out to be related to Princess Leia). (hide spoiler) ] But what I appreciated most about this book was that it managed to evoke real emotions sometimes--and what the characters went through wasn't always completely one-dimensional. I felt less like I was being fed lines and more like what the characters experienced was actually born from their situations combined with their mindsets. There was some decent human emotion describing Eragon's self-doubt, inner conflicts, sorrow, and crushing fear under his great responsibility. Roran's protectiveness and savagery as a man of war worked for me too (when it wasn't weird or over the top). Paolini regularly tried way too hard and forced the emotions until they turned into cloying thesaurus poop, but sometimes he did okay. (There were also certain bits that I realized I felt the way I did because of my personal experiences; in other words, at times I brought my own emotions to the table instead of actually being affected by the words, much like a fanboy loves a dragon no matter how poorly it's written.) Eragon has a \"This Used To Be My Playground\" moment. I'm a sucker for that, because I'm a huge nostalgic hippie. Eragon's philosophizing moments and contradictory feelings were sometimes organic and they worked. It mostly just made me sad that this happened so rarely in the book. This kinda made it seem like he has the capability to . . . maybe . . . evoke emotion in his writing, even though he almost never hits the bullseye. The thing he really needs to learn is how and when to back off. Emotional evocation is easy. Humans do it eagerly when they read. Just get out of the way, Paolini. Get out of the way of yourself. But let's get on to why you guys actually want to read my essays. All the stuff I hate! The biggest problem is still the obnoxious decoration. Sentences aren't Christmas trees. Stop decorating them. Even at this late stage, Paolini hasn't improved his tone-deaf prose or his tendency to decorate awkward sentences instead of pruning them. We still constantly encounter overdescription--and not just of weapons and clothes and faces and courtyards, but unneeded comparisons of perfectly good images to other things in a ham-fisted attempt to enhance them. We can picture post-battle smoke as viewed from the sky just fine without being told that it \"hung over Belatona like a blanket of hurt, anger, and sorrow,\" and it would actually be more poignant if he would stop forcing these associations onto every image. Let us feel it ourselves. Stop telling us what every cloud of smoke \"means.\" If just about every time an image pops up, the reader has to put up with comparisons and weird personification, and we get seasick. A little of this is okay. Weaving it into EVERY SENTENCE is not. Having no natural understanding of voice and tone and no knack for writing character cannot be amended or hidden through excessive adjective insertion. Whenever I read a Paolini book, I feel like I was promised a comfortable shirt and was given an ill-fitting, scratchy garment whose tailor elected to \"fix\" its flaws with a frigging Bedazzler. Some particularly egregious examples: * we would fall before him like dry leaves before a winter storm * the dragons' blood rained from the sky like a summer downpour * her small pink tongue was visible; it lay like a soft, moist slug * musty aroma clung to the girl, like the smell of a forest floor on a warm summer day * which seemed to press against Roran like a thick, heavy blanket made of the most unpleasant substance he could imagine * the plume of dancing water, which glittered like handfuls of diamonds tossed into the air * the bags under her eyes like small, sad smiles * with eyes like chips of obsidian * Blood trailed from the tip in long, twisting ribbons that slowly separated into glistening drops, like orbs of polished coral * there emerged Thorn, red as blood and glittering like a million shifting stars * The passageway smelled like damp straw and moth wings * an overwhelming sense of dread clutched at Eragon, pressing down on him like a pile of sodden fleeces * putting each morsel of food into her mouth as carefully as if it were a hollow orb of glass that might shatter at any sudden movement * he thought the mountains looked like so many molars erupting from the brown gums of the earth The description also occurs at very inappropriate times. It consistently interrupts the action, resulting in situations like having a man running toward Eragon urgently, only to pause for two paragraphs while the man, his family, their history, and philosophy surrounding these folks is imparted to us in indulgent narration. There's also an annoying pattern Paolini had in just under half the chapters: Some sort of action opens the chapter, and then we get at least a paragraph of description of the surroundings. If that didn't happen, more often than not we got a flashback that led up to whatever the current situation was. It got very repetitive. And speaking of repetitive, Paolini has been doing this thing where he latches onto a certain phrase and keeps using it. For example: * Relief and trepidation swept through Eragon. * Relief swept through Eragon. * As his hand closed around the hilt, a sense of relief swept through him. * Relief swept through Eragon as he saw his cousin alive and well. * An urge to strike the king swept through Roran. * Dismay swept through Eragon. * Eragon watched for a minute longer, then a sudden rush of emotion swept through him. * Wonder swept through Eragon, wonder that such a thing had come to pass. Add that to all the metaphors of leaves getting swept away in a storm of some sort, and this book just starts getting silly to read. Other overused words include \"crimson\" (nearly 50 times) and \"growled\" (regularly overused as a speech tag). At one point Eragon says \"How is it you keep besting me?\" and the speech tag is \"he growled, far from pleased.\" Got that? He's growling. And far from pleased. Because Arya is beating him at sword-fighting. I'm sure you needed to know that this did not please him, in case the angry phrase itself and the GROWLING didn't tell you enough yet. And just in case you were wondering, we get a paragraph of detail on Eragon's thumbs . Is your life complete now? Narrating the sacred Paolini spends far too long on an irrelevant scene in which Saphira flies them through a storm for no real good reason, and we're treated to several \"poetic\" pages full of descriptions of the beautiful post-storm night sky. The serenity and power of his observations is yanked away immediately as Paolini begins to narrate to us what exactly this is supposed to \"mean\" to Eragon. He babbles on for a while and then hands down a trite little revelation about how people probably wouldn't fight each other anymore if they could see what he's seen. It cheapens it so much. You know what would have driven home the majesty and beauty he was going for? Some freakin' silence. Don't narrate the sacred, okay? Just invoking an image and then leaving us to marinate in that would have actually been good storytelling--a good character-building lesson in perspective for Eragon. Instead, we get a litany of hollow platitudes yammered into our ears, rambling about how small he'd once thought the world was and how big it seemed now, and specific ways in which he \"was once an ant is now an eagle\" or some crap, and on and on about how he's reorienting his life because of this perspective shift. Bad Dialogue: \"And to what do we owe the unexpected pleasure of this visit, Your Highness? Werecats have always been noted for their secrecy and their solitude, and for remaining apart from the conflicts of the age, especially since the fall of the Riders. One might even say that your kind has become more myth than fact over the past century. Why, then, do you now choose to reveal yourselves?\" Thank you, Ms. Exposition! There's this thing called \"As you know, Bob.\" This is bleedingly, horrifyingly terrible exposition. It is so written that it's insulting. Silly dialogue is also frequently praised by other characters, proving once again that even Paolini's characters love Paolini. Here are a few lines of dialogue I thought were ridiculous: \"These are customs older than time itself.\" [No they're not.] \"I fight to win, not to lose. . . . \" [I can't imagine why.] \"Nor do I want to sit alone in my tent, watching mine beard grow.\" [What's wrong with thine English, Orik?] \"It doesn't rhyme, but then, you can't expect me to compose proper verse on the spur of the moment.\" [Yeah, who do you think I am, the great poet Paolini?] Shameless thefts: Lord of the Rings , of course: Elves are said to have come from across the silver sea. There is a line of Gollum dialogue. Dune : I still think Elva is inspired by Alia. But the jig was up on Paolini cribbing from Herbert when he named a dragon \"Bid'Daum.\" I'm not kidding; he really did that. Monty Python : Seriously, the insults still sound like the French Taunter. Predictable nonsense: The red herrings were painful. (view spoiler) [Paolini names a place \"the Vault of Souls,\" invents the concept of a dragon living on after death in its heart of hearts, suggests that these dragon hearts are what gives Galbatorix his power, and then denies that the Vault of Souls might contain dragon hearts to be tapped to combat the dark lord. It's glossed over, then denied outright, and then finally it of course turns out to be exactly what it seemed. It was also obvious, as soon as we found out that oaths can be broken if a true name changes, that Murtagh was going to escape Galbatorix's control by doing so. Even better: he did so through the power of looooove, like a Sailor Moon episode. (hide spoiler) ] Contradictions: Ugh. Brace yourselves. During a cheeky \"history\" ramble at the beginning, Paolini retells the events of his previous three books and promptly makes several misleading explanations which suggest he hasn't read his own books. Katrina's pregnant at the start of the book and was already showing in the previous book. The baby isn't born until well after a huge denouement, before which occurred the planning, attack, and defeat of the dark lord, followed by rebuilding and a few uprisings. Apparently all this happened in seven months. A newborn baby \"smiles\" at Eragon. Sorry, dude. Babies that young can't smile. That was gas. Healing a baby's face takes longer than (view spoiler) [killing Galbatorix (hide spoiler) ] . Why. Post-baby-face-healing, the elves praise Eragon and say that his amazing feat in doing so was far beyond anything any of their spellcasters could have achieved. Eragon starts eating meat again, displaying no recognition that he decided earlier that eating meat was excusable only if other food sources were unavailable or if he thought it'd be too rude to refuse. Paolini has stated in interviews as well as in his ancient language rules that the suffix \"ya\" makes stuff plural. He proceeds to break that rule about 140 times in this book. Elva gets shamed and manipulated by Eragon in a horribly offensive way. She refuses to come on a mission. Someone dies. Eragon blames her, threatens her, makes her cry, forces her to apologize, and shames her into helping him next time. When confronting Galbatorix, he points out how weak it is to bring a child in, and he claims she came of her own free will. (view spoiler) [Galbatorix tells Eragon he didn't become king by fighting fair. He then proceeds to relent and let Eragon have a fair fight (albeit with Murtagh). This \"distraction\" leads to a revelation that allows Eragon to mess with Galbatorix's head and he ends up destroying himself. Splendid. (hide spoiler) ] (view spoiler) [The Good Guys decide to change the way magic works to let dwarves and Urgals become Riders. They leave out the werecats, even though werecats showed up as one of the forces to be reckoned with as a race in this book. Eragon can control reality at the end of the book because he knows the name of the ancient language. He then proceeds to act as though he is powerless to change some things about his life and others' lives that really suck: Some aspects of Elva's situation (he can't leave her with power but still take her pain?), crappy sexism that's pointed out to him, the loss of a sentimentally important artifact, and some prophecy about how he has to leave Alaga\u00ebsia forever. Oh please. (hide spoiler) ] Nonsense/Contrived events: Lots of this too. A special spear that was thought lost to the ages is recovered in the first chapter when someone tries to kill Saphira with it. It's a lance designed specifically to kill dragons. And then, despite having struck home on both Saphira and Thorn, it doesn't actually kill any dragons until (view spoiler) [they try to use it on Galbatorix's dragon. Then it works fine! (hide spoiler) ] Roran creates a ruse that is so improbable that it was stupid. It depended on such dumb chance events that I couldn't swallow it. Especially when an enemy soldier who's suspicious of Roran is totally willing to just take a sip of his alcoholic beverage. Sounds totally like what military dudes would do before retreating! Sometimes, using the ancient language makes something become true (like saying \"fire\" and suddenly there is fire). Other times, it's suggested you can't possibly say something in the ancient language unless it already is true, so it's a litmus test for lies. That doesn't make sense. Especially if you can bully someone into swearing loyalty to you which MAKES it true. Wouldn't a lie just BECOME true if you said it in the ancient language? A cartoon villain scene occurs when Eragon and Arya are left chained up while a monster hatches from an egg. Once it hatches, it will eat them. Oh no! But of course, the culprits from a gore-obsessed religion don't stay to watch them get eaten alive. They stick around long enough to laugh at their plight, then leave the room. Which of course leads to them being able to escape in time. Why is the video game boss so surprised when they emerge alive? It knows it signed up to be a Bond villain. When Eragon is directionless and doesn't know how to lead the Varden to victory, a prophecy is invoked, which leads him directly to a giant deus ex machina. He goes on the prophesied quest, finds exactly what he needs, and also finds out that (view spoiler) [deceased dragons have been watching over him since before he became a Rider. It was they who manipulated reality and his life to make everything improbable happen all along. Yes, Dragon Guardian Angels. Explains everything! Plus they find secret dragon eggs and therefore the dragons won't go extinct after all! (hide spoiler) ] Happy happy. Eragon seems fine (though sad) over leaving Alaga\u00ebsia to go train dragons in the east. When people keep asking him why he has to go and \"never return,\" he invokes a prophecy Angela made. Angela also prophesied that he would have an epic romance. (view spoiler) [He didn't. That said, even though he and Arya do not have sex (or even kiss), they exchange true names, which is much more intimate and suggests handing over ultimate control of each other. It's suggested strongly that they decide not to get together because of conflicting circumstances, not because of lack of feeling. Eragon clearly won the girl over by the end, even if it didn't pan out for him. (His dragon got laid, though! Saphira lost her virginity to Arya's dragon!) (hide spoiler) ] And finally, a few author fails : Paolini's how-to on removing suspense from your novels: Eragon's cousin Roran and several other members of the Varden get crushed under a crumbling wall. Roran is the only one who survives because he happened to be underneath some kind of support thing when it fell. Paolini, you see, you're trying to inject your story with reasonable doubt about who might die, but you're doing it really poorly if a wall collapses and EVERYONE DIES EXCEPT THE IMPORTANT GUY. It doesn't fool us into thinking your main characters are actually in mortal danger. A character like Roran could only die in self-sacrifice because there was no other way, or in a prophesied scenario, or, I don't know, saving a disabled child who's holding a puppy or something. Paolini doesn't trust his audience. He thinks we're kinda thick. (And I guess we are, if we're still reading these books expecting to get some kind of pleasure out of the experience.) I've noticed it's very common for him to say something that we can completely understand, but then just in case we're extraordinarily thick, he'll have an ignorant character show up and ask questions so he can explain stuff to us that was usually pretty obvious. Roran acts sexist, especially when he's doing so while pretending to give the finger to gender roles. And Chris still hasn't figured out the difference between writing a strong hero and writing an antisocial bastard. Paolini's narration also suggests disabled people would be better off born dead, repeatedly compares people bending over to \"like a cripple\" or \"like an old man with rheumatism,\" and advocates animal cruelty by having no one object to the werecats compelling regular cats to kill themselves in battle. There is too much torture--with details that involve the famous geological comparisons--and sometimes he includes so many details that it sounds like he's trying to prove he did the research this time. And finally. . . . Are you sure Eragon isn't you, Paolini? Quote: Wherever he looked, he saw an overwhelming amount of detail, but he was convinced there was even more that he was not perceptive enough to notice. I found this sentence kind of ironic. Eragon's been told that he's not actually SEEING what he's looking at, and therefore he's trying to see more. However, very much like his author, Eragon doesn't understand that detail is NOT what you need in order to fully and properly understand something. I'd like Paolini to stop fixating on details and understand essence. ...more This book affected me. More specifically, it affected my grades. At the time it came out I was going through tons of tests at school, it was really driving me crazy. So one day I arrive home, remember that I have a quite important test in two days; I turn my computer on to print some information that I needed to study and then I see somewhere that the book was out. I have always been kind of nerdy, so the fact that I couldn't stop reading this for four entire days didn't make my grades that much This book affected me. More specifically, it affected my grades. At the time it came out I was going through tons of tests at school, it was really driving me crazy. So one day I arrive home, remember that I have a quite important test in two days; I turn my computer on to print some information that I needed to study and then I see somewhere that the book was out. I have always been kind of nerdy, so the fact that I couldn't stop reading this for four entire days didn't make my grades that much lower, but they got somewhat damaged. Oh well, it was worth it because this book is perfect. This is one of those books for which you wait infinitely, then it comes out and you could literally kill someone to get your hands on it, after you get it you start reading it and you feel like you're coming back home after a really long trip; finally, when you're getting closer to the last ten pages, you start feeling like your existence is reaching the point where it's going to be pointless. For honesty's sake, I must confess that to this day, four years later, I can't bring myself to read the final ten pages. I can't bear even considering that I've read all there is about Eragon's story. The book begins with the same fast paced, warfare filled atmosphere as the end of Brisingr . Eragon, Saphire and their friends are succeeding at bringing their minor enemies down, but struggling to discover how in the seven hells they are going to defeat Galbatorix when it comes to direct combat. There is a series of moves and counter moves between the good guys and Galbatorix's forces: kidnappings, rescue missions; infiltration, counter infiltration; little victories, little defeats. Differently from the previous books, where the chapters filled with action were interspersed by calmer chapters filled with politics, this book was just one chapter that left you breathless jumping into another. I won't say anything more about the story, because this book doesn't deserve to be spoiled even for your worst enemy. I just wanna state that every single second of wait for this book was worth it, the attention to detail paid by Paolini is astounding; there are no loose ends at all, everything gets brilliantly explained. All the mysteries get unfold, all secrets revealed and, if you are a true fan of this series, by the end all your feelings get mixed into an imaginary messy ball of nostalgia and you don't know what to do with your life anymore. In a good way. ...more I REALLY enjoyed how the finale came about, and how everything led up to this. Everything felt well deserved, and there was plenty of closure. The climax came about in a unique and fascinating way. BUT, the first half of this book dragged on longer than it needed to in my opinion. This is a truly epic series. If you love heroic quests with amazing dragons, interesting magic systems, and little romance, this is definitely one to check out! June 2011 Update Fixed the rating thing, so never mind the May update. May 2011 Update I do apologize for being one of those idiots who gives a book 5 stars before they've even read it. I accidentally clicked the \"rate\" button when I added this book, and the only way to remove the rating is to remove the book. March 2011 Update Okay, so now there's a release date set for November 8 this year. I really hope this won't get changed or moved around!!! I've been waiting three years for this book. Original June 2011 Update Fixed the rating thing, so never mind the May update. May 2011 Update I do apologize for being one of those idiots who gives a book 5 stars before they've even read it. I accidentally clicked the \"rate\" button when I added this book, and the only way to remove the rating is to remove the book. March 2011 Update Okay, so now there's a release date set for November 8 this year. I really hope this won't get changed or moved around!!! I've been waiting three years for this book. Original Pre-release Review I really really really hope Arya ends up with Eragon...then again, this is something I don't really have to worry about. Eragon will either end up with Arya or nobody, because it would be weird if a new girl showed up in the last book. Another prediction of mine is that Arya will become the dragon rider of the last egg...that also supports my thesis that Arya and Eragon will end up together, because if their dragons become emotionally attached, so will their owners! But...these are just guesses and predictions. I also think Roran will be the new king of Alagaesia...unless someone new comes in, which would also be weird. Oh, and am I the only one who thinks Elva is going to turn evil? Think about it. ...more Is anyone else so freaking excited for this book?! Why does it take him so long to write though? It's torture. I have so many predictions about what's going to happen, I couldn't list them all here if I wanted to. But the main ones are: - Eragon ends up with Arya... I don't really like her but it would be kinda weird if Christopher Paolini threw in a new girl he falls in love with, in the last book. - Murtagh is going to end up being good! He's going to change his name and get free from Galbatorix Is anyone else so freaking excited for this book?! Why does it take him so long to write though? It's torture. I have so many predictions about what's going to happen, I couldn't list them all here if I wanted to. But the main ones are: - Eragon ends up with Arya... I don't really like her but it would be kinda weird if Christopher Paolini threw in a new girl he falls in love with, in the last book. - Murtagh is going to end up being good! He's going to change his name and get free from Galbatorix and end up marrying Nasuada. You know it's going to happen. - Roran might become the new king *shrugs* He has the leadership skills and is really determined. - Arya is probably going to be the new dragon rider *sigh* I don't really like this but it's probably going to happen. Then he dragon can mate with Saphira and Arya and Eragon can be together. ...more It took me forever to read this book (it's over 800 pages) but I am finally done and ready to write a review. Obviously, this book is the end of the Inheritance cycle. You have no idea how profoundly sad that makes me. I love this series, and some of my all-time favorite book moments occur during it. I shall never forget you . . . Despite, how long it is, you don't really notice. Riordan paced the book perfectly, so it never feels like some new, completely unfeasible stretch is being made to end t It took me forever to read this book (it's over 800 pages) but I am finally done and ready to write a review. Obviously, this book is the end of the Inheritance cycle. You have no idea how profoundly sad that makes me. I love this series, and some of my all-time favorite book moments occur during it. I shall never forget you . . . Despite, how long it is, you don't really notice. Riordan paced the book perfectly, so it never feels like some new, completely unfeasible stretch is being made to end the series. Believe me, nothing outlandish (like, oh, say, coming back to life after being hit by a death spell) happens to force an end to the series. The end comes naturally, and you can see it coming. Inheritance reminds me of another, lasting pillar in the fantasy community; The Return of the King from the Lord of the Rings. Somehow I wouldn't be surprised if thirty or so years from now, this cycle is held in the same sort of esteem. I believe this series shall endure for a long time. And don't forget, Paolini still has years of writing ahead of him, and in the acknowledgments he mentioned possibly returning to Alagaesia. If he does, I doubt Eragon and Saphira shall play any role, but there are so many other characters he could turn to, Roran and Thorn especially. I feel their story is only beginning. Of course, even if the characters we love are never mentioned, I would still eagerly embark on any new tale Paolini presents. With Inheritance, he has proved himself a truly amazing author, and concluded a riveting tale begun so many years ago. Keep writing, Paolini, and S\u00e9 onr sverdar sitja hvass! ...more Ohgods. The dreaded Green Brick's actually lurking out there now. And some incredibly masochistic part of myself desires to find out whether it's as horrible as the prequels. Oh Paolini, why do you have to insist on being the Stephanie Meyer of \"high fantasy\"? Update: If you would like a chapter-by-chapter commentary/sarcastic review of Eragon and Inheritance, check out \"distinctvagueness\" on youtube...he pretty hilarious :) POST-RELEASE REVIEW Well, I have to say I was extremely disappointed with this conclusion. It was by far TOO perfect and way too tidy. It was over complicated with wards, spells, ways to kill dragons, ways characters avoided death, perfect weapons, too perfect characters, anti-climatic battle with the king, and references to other bo Update: If you would like a chapter-by-chapter commentary/sarcastic review of Eragon and Inheritance, check out \"distinctvagueness\" on youtube...he pretty hilarious :) POST-RELEASE REVIEW Well, I have to say I was extremely disappointed with this conclusion. It was by far TOO perfect and way too tidy. It was over complicated with wards, spells, ways to kill dragons, ways characters avoided death, perfect weapons, too perfect characters, anti-climatic battle with the king, and references to other books/ tv shows. Seriously? A blade that can slice through anything except the sheath it's kept in?! *cough AMBER SPYGLASS cough* And really? \"Raxacori-\" Yes, Paolini, I realize you are a Doctor Who fan for real now. (The reference was Raxacoricofallapatorius...an alien planet from Doctor Who series 1 (revived series)) I personally really wished Angela's past would have been revealed a bit more. You won't be disappointed with her parts in the book (my opinion, some of the best parts), but Paolini dangles this mysterious character in our face for three books and gives us NOTHING concrete at the end. There are some vague hints you can put together however you want, I just wish he would have gave us something definitive. In my opinion, the book was okay, but not great. That's my opinion. I would, however, recommend this series because while I didn't like the last book doesn't mean you won't like it. It's a matter of opinion; I think some people will love this book, others (like me) will think it's ok but that it could have been better, and others will absolutely hate it. Grades 9+ PRE-RELEASE REVIEW Arya BETTER NOT BE THE NEXT DRAGON RIDER!! She is too perfect already and that (being a dragon rider) is the only thing Eragon is better than her at--admit it...she's too perfect! I think that the next dragon rider will be a character that was briefly mentioned in the past two books...and she (or he) will be on the Varden's side. No more speculations, but all I have to say is that I can't wait for November!!! :D ...more Wow. This review.......... . . . . .. . . Let's just say, I might have been very, very tired when I wrote it, and write another review. Perhaps a more cohesive, comprehensive one. Onward! This book was split into two because the author found he was writing too much to compress into one book. Dude, that's because there were too many battles and unnecessary bullshit going on here. They could have easily been one novel. I'm going to summarize Inheritance with one word: bloated. There is a whole chap Wow. This review.......... . . . . .. . . Let's just say, I might have been very, very tired when I wrote it, and write another review. Perhaps a more cohesive, comprehensive one. Onward! This book was split into two because the author found he was writing too much to compress into one book. Dude, that's because there were too many battles and unnecessary bullshit going on here. They could have easily been one novel. I'm going to summarize Inheritance with one word: bloated. There is a whole chapter about a dwarf rolling a ball of dirt together. I shit you not. Another thing that was pretty crappy: there are far too many chapters about Roran. Roran this, Roran that. Roran fighting battles and being badass, Roran smashing people to pieces with his hammer, Roran adding absolutely nothing to the plot and taking up probably around 700 valuable pages of plot and character development. Nope. No thanks. To elaborate on how much the ending sucked ass.... Well, it did. Paolini basically wrote himself into a corner with an invincible villain and had to undo it by having Galbatorix defeated by... being shown his feelings?? Okay. Some more things that bothered me (I'll keep adding onto the review as I think of them): Firnen. The badass green dragon, the one who you see on the cover of this novel, so he MUST be important, right?? The badass green dragon who shows up for the last 50 pages of the novel and does absolutely NOTHING except make sweet, sweet love to Saphira while Eragon and Arya watch uncomfortably, presumably experiencing every sweet second of it through their psychic epic mind connections. So, it's kind of as if Eragon and Arya did get together, right? Once I explain the technicalities to any fangirls who haven't already figured it out, I can picture a victory celebration held by victorious shippers. On second thought, I better not explain anything. Right. The series was no masterpiece but it was entertaining enough. This book wasn't terrible, so far as the series' standards go. By normal standards it was pretty shitty, but one thing I can comment positively on was the character development. We can see very clearly that Eragon has turned from a 15-year-old creepy hormonal small-town farmer (and also a total loser) into a regal dragon rider with far more control over every aspect of himself. That's a good thing, right? So I've fulfilled my obligations? I can go now? Okay, review over. Bye! ...more Anyone else wondering why he hasn't finished the freaking book yet? My feelings right now: Coming to its end, this series was overall amazing and made me feel so cozy and at home that I won't ever be able to part with it. I cannot begin to describe my love for the protagonist, Eragon, who is by far my favorite male lead character. Paolini created a character and managed to make us grasp Eragon's entity. He is not just a fictional character to me, he is more, he is real and if you try to contradict me I will hurt you. This series had so many aspects to the things My feelings right now: Coming to its end, this series was overall amazing and made me feel so cozy and at home that I won't ever be able to part with it. I cannot begin to describe my love for the protagonist, Eragon, who is by far my favorite male lead character. Paolini created a character and managed to make us grasp Eragon's entity. He is not just a fictional character to me, he is more, he is real and if you try to contradict me I will hurt you. This series had so many aspects to the things and it may have sometimes grown boring but that doesn't make it any less perfect. I got to know to many characters, I grew to love many characters and in each of them I find a little bit of myself and for that I'm grateful to Paolini. I am pretty happy with the way the series came to end and I full understand why the author chose to do it this way.. Eragon is responsible and he is afraid of power and what it does to people (check Galbatorix) and he is also selfless and puts everyone before himself and he, of course, would choose to do something that would benefit the entire Alaga\u00ebsia. What I'm not content with is the way Eragon and Arya parted. He loves her so much and I'm not sure he will ever be able to forget his feelings about her and I'm also sure that she is every bit in love with him as he is with her and I would have liked, at least, a kiss before they parted. Not words. Just a kiss in order to hold on to the thought that in some AU Arya joins Eragon in the unknown and have many babies. I'm so helplessly cheesy, I know. Lastly, this book has wrecked me for life. This entire world. I love it. It's a part of me. ...more Old review when the prospective title was Shur'tugal: Title fail. Brisingr was hard enough, this is suicide. Only the hardcore fans (like me) will even bother to learn how to pronounce the title. \"Empire\" would have been a great title. New review: \"Inheritance\" is a GREAT title :) First of all, it's a pronounceable, English word, and second, it will actually help us remember what the proper name of the series is! lol And the cover is just Gorgeous! :) Looking forward to reading it :) ____________ Read Old review when the prospective title was Shur'tugal: Title fail. Brisingr was hard enough, this is suicide. Only the hardcore fans (like me) will even bother to learn how to pronounce the title. \"Empire\" would have been a great title. New review: \"Inheritance\" is a GREAT title :) First of all, it's a pronounceable, English word, and second, it will actually help us remember what the proper name of the series is! lol And the cover is just Gorgeous! :) Looking forward to reading it :) ____________ Read it, loved it. Hope we get to see more of the dragons! There is still a lot of story to be told! ...more inheritance is the best book in Inheritance Cycle series. Overall, compare these four books (Eragon, Eldest, Brisingr and Inheritance) in Inheritance Cycle series the last two books were lot better than the first two books. Eragon and Eldest were weakness compare to Brisingr and Inheritance. Pre- release I have no idea why this didn't occur to me earlier, but why is the series called the Inheritance Cycle ? Does that mean the series is going to pull a Dark tower by stephen king, and end at the beginning of the first novel? I don't think I can take that. I can take any other predicted or non predicted twist. I can take Eragon leaving Alagaesia, I can take Saphira dying and Gallbatorix winning the war and burning the whole world down. But if this series ends up being an actual god-forsa Pre- release I have no idea why this didn't occur to me earlier, but why is the series called the Inheritance Cycle ? Does that mean the series is going to pull a Dark tower by stephen king, and end at the beginning of the first novel? I don't think I can take that. I can take any other predicted or non predicted twist. I can take Eragon leaving Alagaesia, I can take Saphira dying and Gallbatorix winning the war and burning the whole world down. But if this series ends up being an actual god-forsaken cycle , my brain will disintegrate. Okay, so the series wasn't a cycle. Thank god. Inheritance is one of those series that, when finished, will make you miss its characters and story. While a lot of the plot points were obvious twists that everyone predicted, Paolini managed to keep things fresh with a few unexpected surprises here and there. Thankfully, all the necessary loose ends are tied up. Whether you cared about it or not, it's going to be wrapped up pretty well in this book. One of the main shortcomings with Inheritance is the switching perspectives. Granted, it can be interesting to see a sideplot from Roran or Nasuada's point of view, but these breaks often happen right when something EXTREMELY INTENSE is going on with Eragon. In fact, you'll feel so into the action that is Eragon's life that it feels really jarring to be taken out of it. I actually found myself thinking unspeakably horrible things about Roran (grumble) whenever he took me away from what I actually wanted to read about. Plus, those chapters were waaaaaay longer than they need to be. (go to hell Roran!!!!) The conclusion... Eh. It could have been better. While we can't always expect a \"Harry Potter\" ending where all the right people marry eachother, it would have been nice to have a bit of romance for our main man, Eragon. (Who cares about Roran and Katrina? Seriously?) This book is a huge step up from the previous novels. It goes without saying that if you enjoyed the Inheritance series thus far, you're going to enjoy the conclusion. 'Nuff said. ...more The romantic in me was dying at the end of this. Arya! Still it was a very satisfying conclusion to the series and I feel so awed by what Chris Paolini has been able to accomplish. The language alone for all the different cultures included in the book must have taken an incredible amount of work. My favorite parts of this book were the dragon eggs, the green dragon, the giant snail creatures, and Murtagh. I have a soft spot for him and hope he finds happiness. What the hell is taking so long? Wasn't this gonna be part of the third book anyway? All his die-hard 5th grade fans will have grown up and hate reading by the time this is released. Final Review: I think out of all four books, I did like this one perhaps the most. It had less of Eragon moaning and complaining and more of him thinking for himself. I guess that shows he has matured? I will say that I really don't like reading about Roran. I think any plot line that contained Roran was wasted space. Sure, he is smart at war strategy, but we didn't need to read about it and it took up a large chunk in the last 3 books that really weren't necessary. And finally, (view spoiler) [I Final Review: I think out of all four books, I did like this one perhaps the most. It had less of Eragon moaning and complaining and more of him thinking for himself. I guess that shows he has matured? I will say that I really don't like reading about Roran. I think any plot line that contained Roran was wasted space. Sure, he is smart at war strategy, but we didn't need to read about it and it took up a large chunk in the last 3 books that really weren't necessary. And finally, (view spoiler) [I really didn't like the ending. It was unnecessary for Eragon to live the rest of his life in partial isolation just to train the new riders and dragons. If he does live for a thousand years or more like he stated in the book, he has plenty of time to visit people he loves and no reason to stay by himself in isolation. He has a dragon. He can fly and make long trips every so often. This isn't Lord of the Rings where Eragon was being sent to another place entirely by the Elves. Eragon has a way to and from. And what about all the wasted emotions on Arya for all 4 books!!! Why was it necessary, especially when Paolini kept them pointlessly apart? (hide spoiler) ] Overall a decent book, but I was disappointed by the ending. I think Paolini thought to copy Tolkien a little too much and did not have a strong point to back up his ending. Initial Speculation: Okay, does it really say the title is Shur'tugal and that it will come out in 2011? I don't even remember if that is a word in the book and at this point I don't think I'm going to be rushing out to read it. It's been a huge wait for a story that I think is too long and full of unnecessary fillers. I am curious to see how Paolini will wrap this all up, though. I'm sad to say I will be glad to be done with it. Is that terrible of me or what? UPDATE from speculation: So I'm glad to see the title is Inheritance and it will come out this November! I guess the wait will soon be over. ...more \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b5\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03af\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b9\u03b3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03af\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf. \u039a\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03b7\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac. After Inheritance It was quite disappointing actually. IT played out exactly how everyone thought.After all the emphasis on no eldunaris, it was kinda annoying when it was all they could find to save themselves! I was hopping for something like a super kickass spell or an awesome sword that could shoot lightning through shields or...never mind, but in short I was hopping for something dramatic. Everyone knew Eragon would kill galbie. Great surprise! Eragon went along with exactly as Angela's pro After Inheritance It was quite disappointing actually. IT played out exactly how everyone thought.After all the emphasis on no eldunaris, it was kinda annoying when it was all they could find to save themselves! I was hopping for something like a super kickass spell or an awesome sword that could shoot lightning through shields or...never mind, but in short I was hopping for something dramatic. Everyone knew Eragon would kill galbie. Great surprise! Eragon went along with exactly as Angela's prophecy said. The green dragon's rider was no surprise either. The fight to defeat Galbie was Boring!(with capital B) IT was like paolini had run out of things to write, which I guess he had as this was an extra book in what was going to be a trilogy. I basically slapped my face every page. The only things that were a bit interesting were the ultimate true name, the 'All Race Alagaesian Olympics' and 'Urgal and Dwarf Riders' and the 'eggs'. Everything else...BORING. Though the parts about Nasuada's kidnapping were a bit interesting(the tortures and all) and I think she will make a good queen..maybe is Murtagh changed his mind, he would make a good king too but I guess we'll never know. As for Arya and Eragon...not even a kiss?? Ow, come on! BORING! Before Inheritance: oooooooooookay....now everybody is going crazy for the new book ,I'll admit i'm going crazy toofor the new book Now as i'v read the other's pridiction too I don't totally agree with them.If eragon ends up with arya and roran becomes the new king ...then there will hardly be any fun left cus everyone is expecting that!!!!! so here are my prediction- Eragon stays bachlor......'cuz he dies a herioc death with saphira. elva becomea the new queen.....and kills galbatorix...somhow arya becomes the rider of shruiken...dude it was against his will to serve galbatorix!!! roran's son\\daughter becomes the new rider of the last dragon.. Well.....my pridictions are the most unlikely ....but it would be fun if it was that way!!!!!! ...more Ahh... much much better, Chris. Christopher Paolini has always been someone of inspiration. Writing and publishing a book at the age of 15, and a damn good book at that, is immensly impressive. Then he followed it with Eldest, which I thought was an improvement on his first. His writing style and language had drastically improved and I loved reading about Eragon's training in Ellesmera, as well as Roran's story of bravery and loss. The whole 2nd book raced along, leading to a superb climax when Ahh... much much better, Chris. Christopher Paolini has always been someone of inspiration. Writing and publishing a book at the age of 15, and a damn good book at that, is immensly impressive. Then he followed it with Eldest, which I thought was an improvement on his first. His writing style and language had drastically improved and I loved reading about Eragon's training in Ellesmera, as well as Roran's story of bravery and loss. The whole 2nd book raced along, leading to a superb climax when Eragon learned a terrible truth about his heritage. Then, as if the the wheels suddenly fell off and the race was cut short, Brisingr arrived, in the fall of 2008. Here, the series started to suffer. The book was an overly long mess, full of filler to the extent that the plot advanced a centimeter every hundred pages. Many of the chapters laboured by, and by the end of the book, in which a hastily written ending was slashed together, I was left feeling very deflated. If only Paolini had kept the series a trillogy, I thought in despair. Then, news of the final book started to filter out into the never ending web that is the world of the internet. It was to be the last one, the end. Hopes where high. Paolini would no longer be hampered by extending the plot. He could finally get on with it, and finish the damn series. So, is the last book worth it? Does it round the series off in style? In short, a resounding yes. It's not perfect, and I'd like to get the negatives out of the way first. The decision to make one book two once again shows here, with us spending a hell of alot of time at the start of the book with Roran in Aroughs. While reading about how clever Roran is was very entertaining, the entire siege added very little to the plot. Aroughs was not even mentioned in the previous three volumes, and spending so much time on the place just feels like more filler, a terrible thing that hampered book three terribly. Similiary, the book again seems to slow to a stop as we watch Elain give birth. This whole event, again, adds nothing to the overall plot, and in a book where you are practically begging the author to get on with it and finally show us Galbatorix, it is a little frustrating. In fact, the first 100 pages were very like Brisingr, as Paolini labours to tie up every single loose end for every single charactor. Then, we go to Dras-Leona, and the book begins to improve. It is here I began to notice that, after being so bored with nothing happening in Brisingr, the massive improvement on this volume is that there is so much happening! It shoves away its slow pacing from the last book and jumps head first into the dive towards its conclusion. The characters do not get a moment of reprieve, as Murtagh kidnaps Nasuada and we finally, FINALLY, get to meet Galbatorix. Immediately, the decision to keep him out of the action for the first three books seems like a sensible one. Galbatorix is just TOO powerful. To have Eragon or the other characters elude him or outsmart him before now would have diminished that effect. Having such a powerful character does create problems for writers, but Paolini keeps these problems to a minimum. And the end result is not a dissapointment. Galbatorix seems practically omniscient as well as omnipotent. As a reader, you find yourself screaming at the page \"VAULT OF SOULS, VAULT OF SOULS!!\" as it looks more and more likely that he will be defeated. His torturing of Nasuada shows both how twisted and evil he is, and how torn and broken Murtagh is. If anything seems off here, it is that Murtagh's sudden change of character, highlighted by the fact he has fallen in love with Nasuada, feels a little forced. Though he shows Eragon mercy in Eldest, it still remains very inconsistant how Murtagh is feeling, and where his true intentions lie. In all his battles with Eragon post Eldest, he had always strove to win, and commmitted some truley evil deeds while doing so. Yet, here, it's almost like his sudden change to the good side seems forced, which Paolini tries to hide with his love for Nasuada, a woman who he has had next to no interaction with in previous volumes. So on we go, to a huge show down between Eragon and Galbatorix, with a massive battle in the background. And, despite really enjoying the sequence of events, they do seem a little anticlimatic. Eragon never fights with Galbatorix, not really. There is no Eragon/Saphira vs Galbatorix/Shurikan, which it really felt like the entire series had been leading towards. The death's of both the king and his dragon also seemed very rushed to me. Shurikan especially was definately wasted. I would have liked to see him do some damage, though I suppose if he had been allowed to fly on the Varden, there would have been no Varden left. It is only right that I now mention Eragon, who really shines in this novel. His journey to the Rock of Kuthian, his journey to find his name and of course his journey to kill Galbatorix are superb reading. By the end of the book, not only is he immensly powerful but wise also, something which he has lacked up untill this point. His experiences change him and it shows just how much the journey has transformed this poor farm boy into a strong, powerful and wise leader of a new generation of Dragon Riders. As Eragon accepted his fate, to leave everything and everyone behind and begin anew with all the eggs, the book became immensly sad. The final few chapters round everything off nicely, and I defy people to not feel teary, especially when Eragon returns one final time to Brom's tomb, and has a desperate idea to rise the father he never knew. His final goodbyes to everyone, especially Arya, are very emotional, as we as the reader are also saying goodbye, to the characters, to Alageasia, to Eragon himself. The ending for Arya and Eragon was bitter sweet as it needed to be. It would not be in Arya's character to turn round at the end and offer herself to Eragon. But the promise of a potential union between the two, even if unlikley, strikes the perfect balance. And so it ends. Conclusions are hard. There will be always something that upsets the fans, and something they feel that the writers missed. But, I geniunly feel Paolini couldn't have done better. This book was the book I wanted, even if the death of Galbatorix didn't quite live up to my expectations. He has just about redeemed Brisingr by forcing me to grudginly admit that the story would have indeed suffered had it been condensed to cover not just this volume but the events of the previous also. And he left a few mysteries to keep the idea of a 5th book open. The story does end, but it does not mean another cannot now begin. Farewell Eragon. May the stars watch over you, Dragon Rider. ...more Reto 2015: terminar libros empezados hace mucho. \u2605\u2605: P\u00e9rdida de tiempo/dinero. Menos mal que me gusta el g\u00e9nero, si no esto habr\u00eda sido un suicidio. Dejemos una premisa sentada: Paolini, sos una mierda para las relaciones rom\u00e1nticas literarias, as\u00ed que si vas a ser tan mierda, directamente no pong\u00e1s ni siquiera una insinuaci\u00f3n de romance, \u00bfentendido? *aparecen todos los miembros de la mafia por detr\u00e1s de mis hombros* \u00bfENTENDIDO?* Con eso dicho, prosigo: \u2605LOS PROS \u2022 Tiene figuras femeninas fuertes , lo Reto 2015: terminar libros empezados hace mucho. \u2605\u2605: P\u00e9rdida de tiempo/dinero. Menos mal que me gusta el g\u00e9nero, si no esto habr\u00eda sido un suicidio. Dejemos una premisa sentada: Paolini, sos una mierda para las relaciones rom\u00e1nticas literarias, as\u00ed que si vas a ser tan mierda, directamente no pong\u00e1s ni siquiera una insinuaci\u00f3n de romance, \u00bfentendido? *aparecen todos los miembros de la mafia por detr\u00e1s de mis hombros* \u00bfENTENDIDO?* Con eso dicho, prosigo: \u2605LOS PROS \u2022 Tiene figuras femeninas fuertes , lo cual es dif\u00edcil encontrar en esta clase de libros. Nasuada se volvi\u00f3 una de mis favoritas. (view spoiler) [Cuando la eligen reina, nadie cuestiona que asciende sin un marido. Normalmente las mujeres para llegar al trono deben casarse. Ella no. (hide spoiler) ] La adoro por todo lo que representa: una l\u00edder, una mujer inteligente, objetiva y con los pies sobre la tierra. \u2022 Murtagh es, sin duda, uno de sus mejores personajes , y no pienso ocultar el fangirleo que siento por \u00e9l. \u2022 Tiene dragones , OSEA\u00d1\u00d1\u00d1\u00d1 \u2022A pesar de todos los errores (los tantos errores) se lee r\u00e1pido . \u2022La escena final de Eragon y (view spoiler) [Brom, que \u00e9l lo va a visitar a esa tumba y cambia el epitafio... me conmovi\u00f3 bastante. (hide spoiler) ] \u2605LOS CONS \u2022 S\u00cdNDROME DEL PROTAGONISTA ABURRIDO Eragon es aburrido. Muy. De repente te encontr\u00e1s con una gama de diferentes personajes secundarios que te interesan MUCHO m\u00e1s que el protagonista. Y eso no puede pasar. Porque Eragon es nuestro protagonista. \u00a1Deber\u00eda, m\u00ednimamente, interesarme si le pasa algo! No. Nada. Eragon me resbalaba monumentalmente. Si mor\u00eda, si viv\u00eda, si hac\u00eda tal hechizo, si aprend\u00eda tal otro, si segu\u00eda siendo virgen... nada, me chupaba un huevo y medio . \u2022 S\u00cdNDROME DEL VILLANO SIN FUNDAMENTO Obtenemos mucho de Galbatorix en este libro. Los que me leen saben que AMO a los villanos, que soy fan de un buen buen buen villano bien malvado con buenas ideas, buen dialecto, una mente perversa y escurridiza... y, aunque Galbatorix estaba casi dentro de ese grupo, lo leo hablar y... me doy cuenta de que es un est\u00fapido. \u00bfVieron que da la casualidad de que Voldemort est\u00e1 a punto de matar a Harry en casi todas las pel\u00edculas pero \u00e9l siempre se salva porque el mismo Voldemort alarga la situaci\u00f3n hablando pelotudeces o no? Bueno, Galbatorix es as\u00ed, pero peor. Porque \u00e9l ni siquiera quiere matar a Eragon. No. Lo quiere unir a su servicio. Aj\u00e1. Por favor... Los cap\u00edtulos en los que Eragon se enfrenta a \u00e9l (no me digan que esto es un spoiler, es m\u00e1s obvio que el odio que le tengo a este libro) carecen de emoci\u00f3n o siquiera chispa. Est\u00e1n narrados exactamente igual que el resto de los cap\u00edtulos, y hablamos de un punto c\u00falmine, IMPORTANTE dentro de la saga, ni siquiera del libro, DE LA SAGA. Y Galbatorix abre la boca no solo para decir sus ideas, que me parecen copadas, sino para hablar idioteces, y alargar el momento, y hacer mover el argumento. Es casi un plot device de los que tanto odio. (view spoiler) [Expl\u00edquenme para qu\u00e9 Galbatorix los puso a luchar a Murtagh y a Eragon, \u00bfsolo porque es obvio que deb\u00eda haber un enfrentamiento entre estos dos hermanos? Adem\u00e1s se supone que estuvieron luchando por horas mientras que afuera segu\u00edan desarroll\u00e1ndose el resto de los hechos. Y todos miraban y analizaban cada movimiento de estos dos, y Eragon se lo tomaba en serio, y Murtagh no tanto, y yo digo, pero qu\u00e9 al pedo todo esto, \u00bfGalbatorix, sos est\u00fapido o te hac\u00e9s? (hide spoiler) ] Creo que s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 quiso hacer Paolini con Galbatorix. Quer\u00eda crear un villano comprensible. Un villano que no fuera del todo malo, \u00bfme explico? Un villano que era \"bueno gobernando\", que \"quer\u00eda lo mejor para su pueblo\", y esa idea es simplemente genial, pero fue tan mal desarrollada que me dan ganas de viajar hasta donde vive este autor y golpearlo con el libro en la cara. Porque desperdici\u00f3 a un perfecto villano y lo torn\u00f3 un est\u00fapido sin remedio que hablaba boludeces sobre una pseudo filosof\u00eda que no ven\u00eda al caso. Si a alguien le preguntan \"\u00bfPor qu\u00e9 me hiciste esto?\" y se te pone a hablar de las estrellas y la luna, \u00bfno van a creer que est\u00e1 loco o que m\u00ednimo es un idiota? As\u00ed sent\u00ed a Galbatorix. A todo esto, creo que nunca contest\u00f3 ni una pregunta a Eragon. Que hable de forma \"po\u00e9tica\" no lo vuelve un tipo interesante. \u2022 S\u00cdNDROME DE LA NARRACI\u00d3N ABURRIDA HAY TANTO TANTO TAAAANTO QUE SACAR\u00cdA DE ESTA NOVELA QUE ES PURO RELLENO QUE NO HACE A LA HISTORIA HOJAS CAPT\u00cdULOS ENTEROS QUE SACAR\u00cdA, RECORTAR\u00cdA TE ODIO PAOLINI MUCHO MUCHITO Adem\u00e1s de que pone datos que a nadie le interesa (grosor y largo de unas cuchillas que salen de unas paredes y que pueden matarte, creo que se entiende que son grandes) e historias que nadie le importa, y discusiones que a nadie compete, y bla bla bla... uno se pierde en la novela, la premisa principal se hace agua entre tantas boludeces. Sinceramente, Paolini, esto deber\u00eda haber pasado por manos de un editor que no fuera tu amigo para contarte todas las cosas que pusiste de m\u00e1s. Ochocientas p\u00e1ginas para relatar... no s\u00e9, \u00bfqu\u00e9 me contaste al final? \u00bfLo obvio, lo predecible? Las \u00faltimas cien p\u00e1ginas las sacar\u00eda de cuajo. De hecho ayer hablaba con un amigo por WhatsApp , le contaba de mi idea de terminar libros empezados hace mucho, y le dije que Legado era uno de ellos. Le mand\u00e9 una nota de voz \"Boludo, ya mataron al malo y quedan cien p\u00e1ginas todav\u00eda. \u00bfAcaso hay m\u00e1s historia para contar ?\" Se me cag\u00f3 de risa. \u00c9l tambi\u00e9n le\u00eda esta saga, hasta que el tercer libro lo aburri\u00f3 terriblemente y no se molest\u00f3 en continuarlo. Yo fui m\u00e1s obstinada y miren c\u00f3mo termin\u00e9. Usa y ABUSA del Deus Ex Machina . Casualmente todo suced\u00eda tan convenientemente para Eragon que me daban ganas de vomitar. En fin. Creo que me descargu\u00e9. Cerr\u00e9 un ciclo al que no pienso volver. Despu\u00e9s de tres a\u00f1os... [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Say one thing for Christopher Paolini, say he finally finished his Inheritance Cycle . Beginning back in 2002 with Eragon , the series finally drew to a close nine years later with the release of Inheritance . Paolini started writing the story at age fifteen, which was probably about the age I was when I started reading the series. But as I matured, my tastes began to move away from clean, bland, cliched fantasy, and I lost interest in the tale of Alaga\u00ebsia. By the time Brisingr came out--Book 3, 2 Say one thing for Christopher Paolini, say he finally finished his Inheritance Cycle . Beginning back in 2002 with Eragon , the series finally drew to a close nine years later with the release of Inheritance . Paolini started writing the story at age fifteen, which was probably about the age I was when I started reading the series. But as I matured, my tastes began to move away from clean, bland, cliched fantasy, and I lost interest in the tale of Alaga\u00ebsia. By the time Brisingr came out--Book 3, 2008--I was a completely different Reader. My review ( here ) reflects this well. I was unsure whether or not I would even read the final volume. As it goes, I did decide to read the concluding book to the Cycle , and I'm glad I did. Inheritance begins after the Battle of Feinster, with the Varden deciding to march upon Ur\u00fb'baen and finally confront Galbatorix. Alaga\u00ebsia is a big country, and this march takes about 800 pages. Okay, I go too far. While the march takes a long time, there's a lot of different things going on between the beginning and the end. Eragon has some last minute things he needs to do and take care of. The Varden have a few \"loyal\" cities to crush before they reach the capital. And a lot of travel. And a lot of page filler. But still, much of the exposition and rising action are all pointing to Ur\u00fb'baen, and the Reader can't help but trudge along. Going into the novel, I had no doubts that Paolini's vanilla series would end with Galbatorix dead, I just didn't know how. Color me surprised when the affects of war and suffering started permeating throughout Paolini's writing. People were grieving and dying left and right, and the general confusion of war reigned. Add to that the growing promise of Galbatorix's power and the grittiness of a torture scene spread over several chapters. I still suspected, but at least I wasn't as sure as I had been. And oh, the torture scenes. I've read a few books with torture and interrogation in them, but Paolini's methodology and writing were excellent here.* At times it felt like Paolini was struggling, and his tale suffered for it. In particular, the denouement was painful and incredibly long. I'm reminded of the multiple endings of Peter Jackson's Return of the King , except in a bad way. The climax was prolonged and simplistic, but overall pleasing. Sadly, the story continued on for many more pages after. I considered quitting, not knowing why there was so much closure, figuring it must have been hard for Paolini to write the end to this series that is by all rights his baby. He needed closure, and perhaps so did some of the ardent fans of the series. Unfortunately, resolution was a bit... lacking. Also, like the previous novels, typical tropes and blatant knockoffs abound in this book. One cannot help but be reminded of Tolkien. However, Paolini is not alone here, and in fact there is a distinct subset of fantasy fiction that is very Tolkienesque. Personally, I like innovation, which Paolini has, but he didn't rely on it near enough. Having been a reader of SFF for most of my life, I'm familiar enough with these cliches to know that practically all SFF writers rely on them to some extent, and Paolini's use wasn't bad enough to be plagiarism, but it did have me groan a few times (especially at the very end of the novel). Another problem is the bland-to-lifeless characterization, especially Galbatorix. Truly, I laughed at Galbatorix's demeanor, presentation, and general being. His actions just didn't fit his reputation at all. In the acknowledgments after the book, the author reveals that he has more stories to tell in Alaga\u00ebsia. He admits to leaving some things unresolved and up-in-the-air (eg, Angela the Herbalist), and this was a slap in the face. She was possibly my favorite character, just due to her strangeness. (I have my ideas about her, but alas.) I seriously doubt I will be revisiting this world again of my own volition. As a whole, the Inheritance Cycle is a very clean and approachable series that has impacted millions of readers around the world. It is a great introductory story that really captures what traditional, high epic fantasy is about, even if it staggers along its way. It lacks the depth and despair of Lord of the Rings , of course, but it has a certain depth of its own. (Yes, it is unfair to compare this to Tolkien, but on the same token, it's unfair to compare almost anything to Tolkien.) In my opinion, I can recommend Christopher Paolini's Inheritance Cycle to those curious about traditional fantasy, especially younger readers. There's dragons, elves, dwarfs, sword fights, magic, and a lot of fun to be found in these pages. For veterans of SFF, the series won't knock your socks off and may not even raise your pulse much, but the story is still an impressive (if mostly predictable) feat. Inheritance itself is better than Brisingr , but lacks the excitement of Eragon and Eldest . I had wished for something else in the final book, but it is what it is, and puts a fitting end on the story. ----- *As a rule, I generally dislike picking on an author's writing style. They are published, after all, and famous and rich and living the high life. Still, I'm compelled to point out that Paolini's writing seemed amateur throughout most of this book and Brisingr . (I don't recall enough about the first two to add them here.) His lack of pronoun usage bothered me, as I grow tired of paragraph upon paragraph following a similar structure. Pronouns are okay in my book. Another thing was his occasional bizarre word choices. It almost seemed like he had a thesaurus handy and just picked whatever came to mind, whether it fit or not. While this isn't necessarily a problem, it is worth mentioning, as I found it made the reading experience uneven and jagged. ...more It was better than I expected and then some. The good stuff: 1. An admirable end to the trilogy cycle, with a fair amount of action, intrigue, magic and dragons. 2. The epic battle at Uru'baen was skillfully done and kept me at the edge of my seat. 3. Loved both Murtagh's and Nasuada's storyline. 4. Paolini's writing has picked up immensely; there was never a dull moment in the book - everybody was always on the move. 5. I'm glad the focus was more on Eragon and Saphira in the book. It was getting It was better than I expected and then some. The good stuff: 1. An admirable end to the trilogy cycle, with a fair amount of action, intrigue, magic and dragons. 2. The epic battle at Uru'baen was skillfully done and kept me at the edge of my seat. 3. Loved both Murtagh's and Nasuada's storyline. 4. Paolini's writing has picked up immensely; there was never a dull moment in the book - everybody was always on the move. 5. I'm glad the focus was more on Eragon and Saphira in the book. It was getting too crowded. 6. Angela Mooneater. The not-so-good stuff: 1. The editing was shoddy at first. It was painful going through the recap at the beginning. 2. The reveal of the final dragon was a bit of an anticlimax. And I SO saw the identity of last dragon rider coming. 3. (view spoiler) [The whole deal with the hidden dragon eggs seemed like a deus ex machina to me. There wasn't enough ANY foreshadowing regarding that or that their memories had been tampered with. (hide spoiler) ] 4. I skimmed through most of the chapters which focused on Roran. (I know I'm in the minority here but he just bores me. Somehow, I could never get invested in his character as much I was invested in Eragon's. Brisingr was totally ruined for me because of him.) 5. There wasn't enough about Angela in the book to my liking. Grrr. 6. (view spoiler) [I kind of found it hard to believe that Galbotorix could be so easily defeated. If that was the case, why hadn't anybody else done it already? (hide spoiler) ] 7. The ending. (HOW COULD YOU, PAOLINI????) ...more I already knew that a person doesn't read these books for the writing, but the recap of the books, while helpful, is an example of pathetic writing. What really is the role of an editor? To make sure you don't use the same trite phrase too many times on a single page? \"For the reader of this book was mightily annoyed.\" I'm noticing a trend that I'm frustrated with the length of most of the books I'm reading. Maybe it's just me, or maybe authors are going completely nuts, editors aren't doing thei I already knew that a person doesn't read these books for the writing, but the recap of the books, while helpful, is an example of pathetic writing. What really is the role of an editor? To make sure you don't use the same trite phrase too many times on a single page? \"For the reader of this book was mightily annoyed.\" I'm noticing a trend that I'm frustrated with the length of most of the books I'm reading. Maybe it's just me, or maybe authors are going completely nuts, editors aren't doing their jobs, and people are willing to pay more for a long book? I know it's harder to write a \"tight\" story, without extraneous scenes. That's why we call published authors \"professionals\" and pay them, right? How weird that after 4 books, they finally beat the bad guy, and there is still 200 pages of \"stuff\" to say. In summary, cool fantasy elements and gripping battle scenes, punctuated by numbingly long stretches of \"flying around on dragons\" and general angst. I think I'm burned out on fantasy novels and anything written recently that's over 300 pages. ...more I think the world has forgotten this guy exists. (Sorry, Paolini... I hope you got yourself an editor, though. Or is this latest one still 700 pages long?) What's Shur'tugal mean, anyway? I don't remember... well, anything from the previous tales. Except for a bunch of elves... and dragon-hearts... and it's all gone fuzzy from there. Hmm. What say Knopf is taking so long to release this because Paolini is actually trying to make this good ? Naaaah. So, anyone want to lend me a copy? Then again, I I think the world has forgotten this guy exists. (Sorry, Paolini... I hope you got yourself an editor, though. Or is this latest one still 700 pages long?) What's Shur'tugal mean, anyway? I don't remember... well, anything from the previous tales. Except for a bunch of elves... and dragon-hearts... and it's all gone fuzzy from there. Hmm. What say Knopf is taking so long to release this because Paolini is actually trying to make this good ? Naaaah. So, anyone want to lend me a copy? Then again, I could use some spare kindling around my house. ...more This book is taking so.. long. MY PREDICTIONS are very much based on the prophecy from the werecat, and a bit from the Menoa Tree. VAULT OF SOULS; I'll wager that this is where all the Elundari are being kept by Galbatorix, and Eragon will use their strength to defeat him. OR, dragon magic will change them into real dragons again. The latter is a bit wild, I'll admit. GENERAL HAPPENINGS; Eragon will storm Galbatorix's hideout twice possibly. Once to get the last egg, and another as the finale piece This book is taking so.. long. MY PREDICTIONS are very much based on the prophecy from the werecat, and a bit from the Menoa Tree. VAULT OF SOULS; I'll wager that this is where all the Elundari are being kept by Galbatorix, and Eragon will use their strength to defeat him. OR, dragon magic will change them into real dragons again. The latter is a bit wild, I'll admit. GENERAL HAPPENINGS; Eragon will storm Galbatorix's hideout twice possibly. Once to get the last egg, and another as the finale piece of killing the king. I'm wanting Roran to be the new king, since his leadership skillz that killz have been clearly shown, and he's human, so no qualms there. I hope more of Angela will be revealed. Her past sounds exciting! I'm also thinking the Menoa Tree will collect on Eragon's promise to her at exactly the wrong moment, where everything's as busy as can be. I'm thinking Murtagh will be fine and dandy by the end of the novel, and so will Thorn. Or Thorn dies. Possibly killed by Galbatorix for escaping or something. Then Murtagh will become all withdrawn and live like a hermit. I'm not sure. If Paolini was really macabre, I'd say that the series will finish without a main character. I'm thinking Saphira. It's who I would kill off, but thankfully I'm not writing the series. Oh, I also think Izlandi is going to die, and Arya will be the new queen. Okay, I could probably go on sprouting out some more claims, but I think I'll stop. ...more", "Title": "Inheritance"},
