{"Comments": "I have a theory about why some people love this book and others,<---M> myself included</---M>, struggled to slog through it. First, I think it depends on your personal tolerance for sentimentality. Given that the first half of the book is a love story base on Love with a capital L, which itself is based on beauty, magical first glances, a forbidden element, and an ever mysterious woman, you'd better be content with a sentimentality meter reading that's over the moon. I have a number of reader-friends who wou I have a theory about why some people love this book and others, myself included, struggled to slog through it. First, I think it depends on your personal tolerance for sentimentality. Given that the first half of the book is a love story base on Love with a capital L, which itself is based on beauty, magical first glances, a forbidden element, and an ever mysterious woman, you'd better be content with a sentimentality meter reading that's over the moon. I have a number of reader-friends who would love to wrap themselves up in this kind of thing and take it home...<---F>and that's great</---F>. For them. If you're of the more cynical persuasion who raises an eyebrow at a college freshman professing his undying fidelity to the older woman who is his first love, wondering what kind of emotional backlash might ensue...don't bother ducking. There is no backlash. This is LOVE. If the main character Andras wrings his hat (<---B>and he does this a lot</---B>) in an emo fashion over his intended's perceived \"infidelity\", rest assured that all tension shall be based on complex yet innocent misunderstandings. Because this is LOVE. And while we're on the subject of sentimentality, let's talk about the characterization. The large cast of co-protagonists in Andras' circle of family and friends are GOOD people, noble and innocent, with few exceptions. Even when the sky itself is on fire and raining down on them, they are insufferably selfless, starving themselves to feed children, nursing each other back to health and so on. They are even anachronistically Modern in their beliefs: of course only Fascists with a capital F would have the nerve to harass a perfectly harmless Gay character, while all our co-protagonists lovingly embrace him As He Is, no questions asked. As all the good non-fascists were wont to do in the late 30's... But the point of good characters is that we sympathize with them, right? Even if it makes them predictable and dull? I suppose, and yet somehow I resent being emotionally manipulated by this kind of forced sympathy: it's just too easy, when unspeakable horrors happen to good people for no reason, especially when children are involved. Of course I KNEW this was a holocaust saga going in, correct? Isn't that the very definition of the genre? What right do I have to complain about this, anyway? (I'll just mention that Suite Francaise was full of petty, ignoble, interesting characters, but somehow I cared about some of them anyway.) One of the biggest barriers to my appreciation of the story was its relentlessly heavy tone of overwrought momentousness. Even in what should have been lighter moments the characters are wracked with angst and poetically purpled profound thoughts. The result, quite simply, is that it's exhausting. And repetitive. The characters are caught in a cycle of expressing their more dramatic emotions: shocked disbelief, breast-beating sorrow, ecstatic professions of love, misplaced tearful apologies for situations beyond their individual control. The few instances of attempted humor fell flat, and I so wanted them to work. Even an epic saga needs humor, needs the grit of sarcasm and understatement, needs to turn occasionally away from the epic before we are beaten over the head with it. Which leads me to one of my biggest issues with this book: that the superfluous, overwrought prose waters down what is, deep down, a moving story. The author feels compelled to EXPLAIN everything, not counting on the reader to GET IT on her own. The author relies too much on interpreting for us every little quiver of body language, lest we somehow miss the point of their next unsubtle outpouring of emotion. The result of all this (unintentional?) telling is that it caulks up the hazy void where subtext tends to dwell. When an author insists on spelling out the meaning behind every little look, glance, and line of dialogue, we readers suspect our intelligence isn\u2019t trusted. Some of us don't mind, but some of us resent it. I noticed this sort of excessive interpretation in <+++>The Invisible Bridge</+++>, not just once, but consistently. A prime example of this occurs when the willful Elisabet stays out all night while her mother Klara and the main character search for her: \u201cbut when they opened the door they found [Elisabet] on the doorstep, holding a pair of evening shoes in one hand, a cone of spun sugar candy in the other. Klara, standing in the doorway, took a long look at her, at the shoes, the cone of candy; it was clear she hadn\u2019t come from an innocent evening with Marthe.\u201d I would argue that the entire second sentence, semi-colon and all, is unnecessary. The fact that she\u2019s carrying her shoes, that someone bought her candy, signals that she\u2019s been out dancing with a boy and not at Marthe\u2019s house. We don\u2019t need Klara\u2019s prolonged double take, the repetition of \u201cshoes\u201d and \u201ccandy\u201d for this to sink in, and certainly not that patronizing phrase \u201cit was clear.\u201d \u201cIt was clear\u201d signals (to me) that the writer fears the opposite, that it is not clear at all (which it is), but instead of adding a few extra details to Elisabet\u2019s appearance to bar any imagined confusion\u2014smudged makeup or a man\u2019s handkerchief hanging from her belt or whatever\u2014she lays everything out for us. \u201cIt was clear\u201d reappears throughout the novel, and is always used to similar effect as in the following: \u201cNow she held her back rigid while another woman leaned close to her ear; it was clear that the other woman was narrating the progression of Novak\u2019s tete-a-tete with Klara\u201d or even \u201cSoviet planes\u2014or what had appeared at first to be Soviet planes, but might have been German planes in disguise\u2014had bombed the Magyar border town of Kassa. The message was clear: Hungary had no choice but to send its armies into Russia.\u201d To be fair, there were some very powerful moments in this book. In particular, I was emotionally struck by the part in which Andras and his friend are punished for creating a humorous reactionary newspaper in one of the labor camps and literally forced to \"eat their words\". During the scene Andras has a chilling realization that he hasn't even seen the worst of the horrors which are to come. But while this should have been a turning point for Andras in which he should have either been galvanized into action or frightened into complicity, neither comes to pass. Apart from a few quips that \"you should have seen what they did to us\", this scene may as well have never happened, for all the impact it has on Andras' characterization. He is still his same Good self, still willing to conduct a bit of passive resistance without holding his neck out too far. I think I'm being a bit harsh. Few of us are aware of the Hungarian role in WWII, and Orringer's meticulous research into the details of everyday life in Paris and Budapest are laudable (although the wikipedia-esque summaries of battles and broad political developments that pop up every time a character sits down to read the paper could have been better incorporated). I'm still feeling more than a bit guilty about this review because I know the characters are based on the remarkable experiences of the author's family, and of course one never wants to show one's ancestors in a bad light unless they deserve it. At the same time, in FICTION I want to read about tortured, flawed characters who don't always think politically correct thoughts or are likewise always charitable and forgiving. And not for an unending 700 page slog. Don't think that a short book could possibly do justice to a weighty subject like WWII? Then I recommend the tiny, incredibly powerful 85 pg novella \"Closely Watched Trains\" by Bohumil Hrabal about Czech resistance to the German Occupation. It's hilarious and brutal, and takes just one afternoon to read. ...more I'm trying to remember if a book has ever made me cry this hard. The Book Thief, maybe. As I assured my little brother when he crawled out of bed to make sure I was okay, I wouldn't be so upset if I didn't like the book. I only cry for characters that I love. My dog, who actually came to my aid before my brother, didn't seem to care what I was reading. He just climbed up onto my bed and snuggled up next to me and licked my tears away. <+++>The Invisible Bridge</+++> by <---A>Julie Orringer</---A> begins in 1937 with 22-y I'm trying to remember if a book has ever made me cry this hard. The Book Thief, maybe. As I assured my little brother when he crawled out of bed to make sure I was okay, I wouldn't be so upset if I didn't like the book. I only cry for characters that I love. My dog, who actually came to my aid before my brother, didn't seem to care what I was reading. He just climbed up onto my bed and snuggled up next to me and licked my tears away. The Invisible Bridge by Julie Orringer begins in 1937 with 22-year-old Andras Levi departing Hungary for Paris to study architecture after securing a scholarship at the Ecoles Speciale. By chance, he is asked to carry a letter with him to France, addressed to C. Morgenstern, with whom he begins a rather complicated relationship as everything in Europe begins to disintegrate. Okay, I'll admit this first: I have never heard anything about the Hungarian Holocaust before. I don't think I ever even realized that Hungary was involved in World War II. In school, you hear a lot about the French occupation and the Warsaw ghetto, but not a word about the devastation that was brought on Hungary too. Hungary, whose leaders allied themselves with Germany, and then enslaved their Jewish men and forced them to fight for the Nazi army while their wives and children back home were murdered. Back to the story. The Invisible Bridge pulled me in to Andras's life in Paris. His mentors and friends and loves and enemies. The entire first half of this 600 page tome was hardly a light story, but it wasn't yet a description of the indescribable horrors that would come later. It reminded me almost of Anna Karenina, the way that the every day life of the characters was so fleshed out. They became real. You could understand the souls of these fictional characters. By the time the events of second half of the story were unfolding in their horrifying detail, I was too invested in the lives of the characters to stop reading. I did, I admit, put the book down for hours at a time, too afraid to keep reading for what might happen, but I always went back and pressed onwards. ...more This is not just another wwII holocaust read. Although, I did hesitate to pick it up but only for a moment as I read several stunning reviews that suggested I better take a look at it. I\u2019m so grateful I did. This is an epic story. It's 1937 pre war Hungary. Three brother's lives are diverging. At the core, is the story of one brother, Andras, who goes to Paris to study. On arrival he finds friendship, love, and passion. Then the horrific war begins. The atmosphere is heavy - laden with sadness, This is not just another wwII holocaust read. Although, I did hesitate to pick it up but only for a moment as I read several stunning reviews that suggested I better take a look at it. I\u2019m so grateful I did. This is an epic story. It's 1937 pre war Hungary. Three brother's lives are diverging. At the core, is the story of one brother, Andras, who goes to Paris to study. On arrival he finds friendship, love, and passion. Then the horrific war begins. The atmosphere is heavy - laden with sadness, grief, devastating loss and yet, the impossibility of hope and faith. Beautifully and stylistically written, this is a valuable read to add to the wwII era of unforgettable novels. It is remarkably well written whose 600 pages read as 300. Highly recommend but know this will be an emotional one. 5 \u2605 ...more This book is WONDERFUL!!!! Julie Orringer is both a great storyteller and a great writer. Excellent Historical Fiction. UPDATE 2015: Here is another book I read 5 years ago... soooo good. I remember every detail. Read it when it first came out - then a couple years later with my Jewish book club. I'm sitting here - today - reading. while on the bike at the gym at the moment and a GR's sent me a note about how much she loved this too... Then - I had the pleasure to read many of my friends reviews - This book is WONDERFUL!!!! Julie Orringer is both a great storyteller and a great writer. Excellent Historical Fiction. UPDATE 2015: Here is another book I read 5 years ago... soooo good. I remember every detail. Read it when it first came out - then a couple years later with my Jewish book club. I'm sitting here - today - reading. while on the bike at the gym at the moment and a GR's sent me a note about how much she loved this too... Then - I had the pleasure to read many of my friends reviews ---( I'm not sure we had been friends on this site yet when area read it) If you've not read it... You just won't be bored for a second. ( actually reminds me of another book I finished just 10 minutes ago). The Debt of Tamar... As far as lush storytelling .. Treat yourself and read all the many great reviews.. Better yet... if in the mood for a page turning historical fiction.. You won't go wrong with this one. And WHY has the author not written another book yet? I'd read her in a second. ...more The Twelve Days of Reading The Invisible Bridge: A Novel On the first day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... It starts off engagingly. On the second day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the third day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the fourth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue p The Twelve Days of Reading The Invisible Bridge: A Novel On the first day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... It starts off engagingly. On the second day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the third day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the fourth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the fifth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the sixth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the seventh day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the eighth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Excess detail Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the ninth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Cringe-worthy humor Excess detail Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the tenth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Wikipedia history Cringe-worthy humor Excess detail Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the eleventh day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Holocaust exploitation Wikipedia history Cringe-worthy humor Excess detail Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas But it starts off engagingly. On the twelfth day of reading this, the thought occurred to me... Why did I slog through this? Holocaust exploitation Wikipedia history Cringe-worthy humor Excess detail Two-dimensional villains Jewish inconsistencies This...is...a...HARLEQUIN! Way anachronistic Unrealistic plot twists Mary Sue personas Well, it started off engagingly. ...more I will just copy my FBC Review here: INTRODUCTION As I mentioned in a recent review, sometimes books come out of nowhere, hijack my reading schedule and it takes a while until I can un-weave the magical spell they had exerted on me and leave their universe, usually needing at least one complete reread as well as an immediate review. The novelistic debut of the author, The Invisible Bridge attracted my attention by its fascinating cover in a Borders bookstore several days ago and the blurb below mad I will just copy my FBC Review here: INTRODUCTION As I mentioned in a recent review, sometimes books come out of nowhere, hijack my reading schedule and it takes a while until I can un-weave the magical spell they had exerted on me and leave their universe, usually needing at least one complete reread as well as an immediate review. The novelistic debut of the author, The Invisible Bridge attracted my attention by its fascinating cover in a Borders bookstore several days ago and the blurb below made me open it; I got hooked on the first page which you can read in the extract linked above and I stayed way, way too late to finish the novel since I really needed to find out what happens with the main characters, while rereading it at leisure during the next few days. \"Paris, 1937. <---C>Andras L\u00e9vi</---C>, a Hungarian Jewish architecture student, arrives from Budapest with a scholarship, a single suitcase, and a mysterious letter he has promised to deliver to C. Morgenstern on the rue de S\u00e9vign\u00e9. As he becomes involved with the letter's recipient, his elder brother takes up medical studies in Modena, their younger brother leaves school for the stage - and Europe's unfolding tragedy sends each of their lives into terrifying uncertainty. From the Hungarian village of Kony\u00e1r to the grand opera houses of Budapest and Paris, from the lonely chill of Andras's garret to the enduring passion he discovers on the rue de S\u00e9vign\u00e9, from the despair of a Carpathian winter to an unimaginable life in forced labor camps and beyond, The Invisible Bridge tells the unforgettable story of brothers bound by history and love, of a marriage tested by disaster, of a Jewish family's struggle against annihilation, and of the dangerous power of art in a time of war.\" FORMAT/CLASSIFICATION: The Invisible Bridge stands at about 600 pages divided into five parts and 42 named chapters with an epilogue some decades later. The novel spans the turbulent years from 1937 to 1945 with action mostly in Paris, Budapest and various labor camps on or behind the Eastern front lines where Hungarian Jewish males were conscripted as forced laborers for the army instead of as soldiers, since they were considered unreliable to be given weapons and training to use them. The novel follows the intertwined destinies of the lower-middle class Levi family from a village near Debrecen, of whom middle brother and architect-to-be, Andras is the main hero, though older brother Tibor and younger Matyas play important roles too and the rich Hasz family of Budapest, of whom early forties Gyorgy is a Bank President and his son Jozsef, a painter-to-be is studying - and partying, with more of the latter than the former of course - in Paris. There is also mysterious early thirties Klara - Claire - Morgenstern who is a ballet teacher in Paris with a 16 year old strong willed daughter Elisabet, to whom Gyorgy's mother, the matriarch of the Hasz charges the twenty two year old Andras to secretly deliver a letter when he gets to Paris for his studies, in addition to carrying a huge package with goodies for Jozsef. Romantic, epic, dark even painfully so at times, The Invisible Bridge is historical fiction of the highest caliber. ANALYSIS: \"The Invisible Bridge\" succeeds so well because of three aspects: 1: The characters: Andras and Klara first and foremost are such extraordinary characters, the young idealistic student who cannot help himself but fall in love with the 31 year old woman with a 16 year old girl and a dark past we get hints about and who somehow managed to make a reasonably successful life for herself and Elisabet despite all; also Tibor, Andras' friends, the closet gay Polaner and the handsome Ben Yakov, the wastrel but good natured Joszef, theater manager Zoltan Novak who is Andras' mentor and first employer and the rest of the Hasz and Levi families are all memorable and distinctive characters and you want them to succeed and later to survive, though of course the odds were what they were, so do not get overtly fond of anyone... 2: The writing style which is spellbinding; the book is a page turner end to end and it manages to combine the first half cautious optimism of the main characters even in face of the clouds of war and of rising antisemitism in France and violence in Germany and other places, with the day to day struggle to survival in the face of the tightening vise of the second half. \"The Invisible Bridge\" does not descend into melodrama in the first half, nor does it descend into despair and darkness without a light in sight, in the second half, but it maintains a \"matter of fact\" attitude throughout that kept me guessing almost to the end what will be the fate of the characters. 3: The world-building: as noted at the end of the novel, \"The Invisible Bridge\" is based on the author's family stories and real life experiences plus a lot of research and it shows. The feel of both Paris of 1937-1939 and of Hungary from 1939-1945 is pitch perfect and the Jewish traditions are vividly expounded. \"The Invisible Bridge\" feels to me \"right\" as a book set partly in Eastern Europe in a way few books by Western authors feel and the little details like recipes, names, ways of speech contribute mightily to that feeling. There are several moments that descend a bit into farce like the story of Ilana, the Italian Orthodox Rabbi's daughter that Tibor helps elope to Paris to secretly marry Andras' friend, the handsome ladies' man Ben Yakov - who is actually in love with Black American student Lucia - and of course Tibor falls in love with Ilana, while Ben Yakov is desperately unhappy that he cannot marry Lucia so he hopes that Ilana's beauty will 'cure him\" of his \"wandering eye\" so to speak- all with predictable results of course, but the novel manages to surprise after that. But the lighter interludes work well as a balance to the increasing darkness that descends on the world and on our characters. Another superb touch in the novel was how famous stories like Job's fate are weaved explicitly in the novel, first in the story of Andras' father nicknamed \"Lucky Bella\" in an ironic and tragic way as he lost everything in life - family, child, inheritance - by age 30 and was living in depression and despair on the community's charity until a wise rabbi convinced him to try and turn around his fortunes and then in the tragic story of one of novel's important characters, though for this one you have to read the book to find out what's what. The last meeting of Andras with the respective character in 1943 is one of the emotional highlights of the second half of the novel. In turns, a wonderful love story, an epic historical saga in the grand traditions of yore and a dark story of destruction and survival, The Invisible Bridge (A++) is one of two awesome mainstream novels that will lead that category in my best of 2010 list. ...more Super knjiga! Mnogo je volim... \u010cetiri godine sam poku\u0161avala da joj na\u0111em dom u Srbiji... Najpre uzme jedan urednik... napusti izdava\u010da, izdava\u010d otka\u017ee prava... Ubedim drugog, po\u0161alje ponudu, odobre mu prava, do\u0111e mu novi urednik i otka\u017ee prava... Ubedim tre\u0107eg, njemu po\u010dnu da tra\u017ee sumanute pare za prava, on odustane... I na kraju, kad sam po\u010dela da gubim nadu, uzme je Alnari... For a long time I thought the author was writing about members of her own family so idealised and sentimentalised were the depiction of all the relationships in this novel. When she isn\u2019t writing about relationships she writes really well so it was the only explanation I could find for this relentless alienating sentimentality. Further enhancing this idea was the strange structure \u2013 the first 300 pages are set in Paris. Then, suddenly, the entire cast is uprooted to Hungary. Paris, the equivalen For a long time I thought the author was writing about members of her own family so idealised and sentimentalised were the depiction of all the relationships in this novel. When she isn\u2019t writing about relationships she writes really well so it was the only explanation I could find for this relentless alienating sentimentality. Further enhancing this idea was the strange structure \u2013 the first 300 pages are set in Paris. Then, suddenly, the entire cast is uprooted to Hungary. Paris, the equivalent of a central character, is completely dropped. Sometimes you have to wonder if setting a novel during WW2 and employing Jews as central characters isn\u2019t just an easy way for an author to shoehorn into the narrative a huge amount of pre-supplied dramatic tension. Klara and Andras\u2019 rather clich\u00e9d romance only held my interest because I knew the Nazis were coming. The Invisible Bridge is an old fashioned, conservative and somewhat predictable novel. The prose is weighty, the narrative is chronological and loaded with long descriptive passages. Every character is intensely earnest, always guarding his or her dignity. We never see any character with his or her trousers down; we never see any character mucking about. Those moments that reveal the vulnerable and touching humanity of characters are completely absent in this novel. At the same time it bears all the hallmarks of romance fiction. He\u2019s poor, she\u2019s rich; she has a mysterious secret; he is more passionate than most; they are both beautiful and uncommonly gifted. Andras\u2019 relationship with his professor is ideal, Andras is the best student, his relationship with his brothers is ideal, his love for Klara is ideal, Klara is the best dancer in her company. Everyone in this novel is uncommonly gifted. They weren\u2019t like real people; more like automatons programmed to always behave in an idealised way. Also, I can\u2019t think of a single reason why this novel needs to be 758 pages long. It takes ages to get going and then it takes ages to end. When war begins for real the author has no further need of emotional melodrama and the novel massively improves as a result. Unfortunately, for me the damage had already been done. I didn\u2019t like the two lead characters at all. I was weary of all the rather crude manipulation the author had resorted to in order to make them loveable. When she isn\u2019t writing about relationships she writes really well. So I was left bewildered why she focused so heavily on the corny romance theme. Basically you\u2019d have to be a diehard romantic to enjoy this and I\u2019ve discovered I\u2019m not. ...more 4 and 1/2 stars This is an old-fashioned novel, even an epic, in the tradition of \"War and Peace\": great storytelling (set in a tumultuous time), developed characters and good writing. It's obvious that Orringer did a lot of research and the time period and the places are alive with details that fill all the senses. I found it hard to ever put the book down. The writing is elegant: \"... two tiny rabbits browsed the clover. The first light of day came through the delicate endive leaves of their ea 4 and 1/2 stars This is an old-fashioned novel, even an epic, in the tradition of \"War and Peace\": great storytelling (set in a tumultuous time), developed characters and good writing. It's obvious that Orringer did a lot of research and the time period and the places are alive with details that fill all the senses. I found it hard to ever put the book down. The writing is elegant: \"... two tiny rabbits browsed the clover. The first light of day came through the delicate endive leaves of their ears ....\" \"the round blue tin that held a minestrone of buttons ...\" \"His [a baby's] hands opened into starfish.\" These are just passages I remember offhand; I didn't mark any. If I have any complaint, it's that the love story (before the war) got a bit too romance-y for me at times, but even that seems a petty thing for me to say, as I understand why it was vital to the development of the characters and the hardships of the plot. But disliking that one element is why I'm giving this book 4 stars instead of 5, but think of it as a very, very strong 4 and 1/2 stars. ...more I read Orringer\u2019s \u201cPilgrims\u201d for a fiction class several years ago and thought it was one of the best on the syllabus, so I\u2019m disappointed that I found The Invisible Bridge so dependably awful. I guess I\u2019ll still try to read How To Breathe Underwater someday but it is now occupying a place on my \u2018to-read\u2019 shelf with considerably less urgency. First, the good things. There were good things. I had to keep reminding myself how exceptional some of those good things were when I was literally groaning I read Orringer\u2019s \u201cPilgrims\u201d for a fiction class several years ago and thought it was one of the best on the syllabus, so I\u2019m disappointed that I found The Invisible Bridge so dependably awful. I guess I\u2019ll still try to read How To Breathe Underwater someday but it is now occupying a place on my \u2018to-read\u2019 shelf with considerably less urgency. First, the good things. There were good things. I had to keep reminding myself how exceptional some of those good things were when I was literally groaning at the ceiling in my apartment after finishing another chapter with one of those R.L. Stine-esque howlers of final lines. Julie Orringer is a good writer. She\u2019s almost a very good writer. She is clearly an intelligent one, one who values the rich narrative sprawl of a well-populated epic, and the research evident in this novel is remarkable. Her descriptive prose is top-notch--off the top of my head, I remember the infant\u2019s face as a pink asterisk, his hand a starfish; a woman\u2019s black shoes are a pair of quarter-notes. She would make a fantastic Imagist poet. She boasts a real command of diction, reminding me of Jonathan Franzen or Michael Chabon with her enviable ability to insert specific, intelligent vocabulary into passages without sounding affected. The use of architecture as a metaphor for her craft was always clever. The bad? Well, for starters, there\u2019s the dialogue, choppy and toneless. It sounds as though Orringer is trying to mimic \u2018foreign speech\u2019 by compressing her characters\u2019 thoughts into subtitles. And then there are the characters. Oh Lordy Lord, those characters. So, you\u2019ve heard of the numinous Negro? Well, nearly every character in this novel was a sort of secularized, Judaistic rendition of that obnoxious and predictable trope. Let\u2019s review the dramatis personae: ANDRAS: idealistic and na\u00efve, wise, forgiving, noble, self-sacrificing KLARA: devoted, occasionally sullen, wise, forgiving, noble, self-sacrificing TIBOR: bright, reserved, wise, forgiving, noble, self-sacrificing POLANER: sensitive, wise, forgiving, noble, self-sacrificing There\u2019s a case to be made for Klara as a Manic Pixie Dream Girl, and Polaner\u2014oh, Christ, Polaner. The depiction of homosexuality in this book was so insulting and dated you would think Orringer was a freshman in high school who just emerged doe-eyed with earnestness from a civics class on tolerance. Gay characters are sensitive, easily identifiable (They like silk!), meek and troubled, maternal, and seem to exist only so Andras and his crew (and by extension, the author) can impress us with how forward thinking they are. I would have paid anything (other than the list price for this damn book) for a full subplot with Ben Yakov weighing his homophobia against his sense of Jewish fraternity after the assault Lemarque made on Polaner and hence, their community. Because, you know, that would have been actually interesting. But Orringer seems so averse to making any of the earmarked-\u2018Good\u2019 characters even a little unlikeable that they\u2019re all indistinguishably bland. Let\u2019s not forget Lucia\u2014a young African immigrant, she is beautiful, gifted, and kind. Other than that, we don\u2019t know much about her. She\u2019s whisked off to America, another minor character about the size of Novak\u2019s wife. Which wouldn\u2019t be a problem if Orringer didn\u2019t seem so insistent on racking up all of the liberal guilt pat-on-the-back points she could muster from this girl while simultaneously playing that same old tune, the \u201cNot Actually Giving the Non-White Person a Personality Rag\u201d. Does Lucia ever get angry? Does she lie? Does she daydream? In white guilt land, we don\u2019t need to learn any of those things\u2014we only smile about how wonderful it is that Orringer gave us a pretty, bright African woman whom everyone loves, and nobody knows. Orringer never gets inside her characters. Not one of them feels like a living, thinking human. They don\u2019t inhabit any emotional states\u2014instead they possess emotions like cheap baubles, distractedly passed from palm to palm, eventually misplaced and never missed. We\u2019re constantly told that Klara is sad, or that Andras is angry\u2014but they never FEEL sad or angry. In the middle of any argument we\u2019re informed, bewilderingly, as though we need to be assuaged, that Andras realizes he\u2019s being irrational and the crisis dissipates. He\u2019s an emotional Forrest Gump of a protagonist, and following him through the horrors of WWII comes to feel pretty quickly like you\u2019re trapped on a tour bus, and Orringer won\u2019t dare let you out to feel anything other than the mildest of dread. The evil takes place largely behind the scenes, and every military officer Andras encounters is the second coming of Oskar Schindler. This is a plot device that loses all emotional impact the eleventh time it happens. Characters\u2019 values aren\u2019t challenged. They witness unspeakable events, but they don\u2019t change. They don\u2019t have flaws. They aren\u2019t impatient or unreliable or mean or self-righteous. How much realer Ilana would have seemed, how much more painful her death could have been to the reader, if we\u2019d been told that she had a laugh that grated on Klara\u2019s patience or that she fought with another tenant of their ghetto. Instead, we\u2019re given a saint. Saints die, and in fact we expect it of them. Ilana, like every other major character in the book, came as ready made for canonization as though she\u2019d dropped off an assembly line. Real saints have their passions, their madnesses, their rages and inconsistencies. The characters of The Invisible Bridge are their illustrated counterparts in a Sunday School classroom. Orringer wants to borrow the gravitas from the setting, from every other book or film or account we know about that wretched hell rotting near the center of the twentieth century without having the courage to show us anything truly dark, and the story becomes thoroughly suspenseless. At times the structure\u2014with its hokey rhythms of obstacle-SUSPENSE?!-solution, obstacle-SUSPENSE???!!-solution, SHOCKING FINAL LINE!\u2014frustratingly resembled a young adult thriller, and was just as easy to predict. Does anyone doubt for a single page that Andras and Klara would end up together with both children, all healed and alive?? Or, and here\u2019s the big one for me: that Matyas was coming home? I could see that Color-Purple-rip-off of a tearful reunion coming from so far away it was like it was being ushered through the pages by a goddamned Mardi Gras parade. If I\u2019d played a drinking game involving the number of times Matyas\u2019s absence is mentioned thick with wistful portent I would have woken up married in Las Vegas by now. We realize very early that Orringer is a sucker for small acts of mercy against a backdrop of suffering, of powerful, \u2018unexpected\u2019 good news that becomes tiresomely predictable. She can\u2019t get enough of it. She puts it everywhere. When I think of scenes in literature that made me weep and cheer, I think of moments like the aforementioned Celie/Nettie scene in the Color Purple, or the final scene of the Known World that had me crying so hard I couldn\u2019t read through my tears. Powerful moments that emerge from an ugly world where the author makes it clear she wouldn\u2019t think twice about offing the entire cast of characters. These scenes work if you get one or two of them. Orringer tries to milk one out of nearly every chapter. After a while I felt Pavlovically conditioned to expect good news whenever anything bad happened (Andras has to get a new dangerous job looking for mines? nothing bad happens, and he gets better food. Tibor loves Ilana? Conveniently, she doesn\u2019t love Ben and he doesn\u2019t love her and she loves Tibor too so no one has to get hurt or look like a bad guy). It\u2019s like getting a lollipop after a flu shot, and it truly never ceases. There are tragedies\u2014Andras loses his parents, his brother, and his brother\u2019s family\u2014but Orringer writes about them with a detached lyricism, as though she were already imagining the wide-angle, washed-out shot with the John Williams score in the film adaptation; as though she sort of wants us to find it beautiful. In Zadie Smith\u2019s essay on Netherland, she criticizes O\u2019Neill\u2019s tendency to conceal the twin towers in literary language. I didn\u2019t know what she meant by that then, but I think I do now. It\u2019s what The Invisible Bridge does to the Second World War. From the epilogue and acknowledgements, you learn much of the novel was based on Orringer\u2019s family\u2019s own experience, and maybe that explains why the characters felt flatly perfect. Beloved family members are the first people you learn to mythologize and the last people you see clearly. I\u2019m certain Julie Orringer is lovely and her family is wonderful, and their true story is absolutely incredible, but we\u2019re talking about the craft of fiction here: I genuinely disliked this novel and couldn\u2019t wait for it to be over. ...more \u201cHe had the strange sensation of not knowing who he was, of having traveled off the map of his own existence.\u201d The premise of this novel sound promising and the beginning is good - in 1937, Andreas and Tibor L\u00e9vi are working in Budapest to save money that will get them respectfully to France and Italy where Andras will study architecture and Tibor - medicine. But then when Andreas goes to Paris on a scholarship, he promised to send a secret letter and I realized that instead of an epic historic \u201cHe had the strange sensation of not knowing who he was, of having traveled off the map of his own existence.\u201d The premise of this novel sound promising and the beginning is good - in 1937, Andreas and Tibor L\u00e9vi are working in Budapest to save money that will get them respectfully to France and Italy where Andras will study architecture and Tibor - medicine. But then when Andreas goes to Paris on a scholarship, he promised to send a secret letter and I realized that instead of an epic historical saga, The Invisible Bridge is going to be a synthetic soap opera. In its first half, the book is a sweeping and maudlin romance and a poignant Holocaust survival story in its latter half. The romance between Andras and Klara is tiresome, too long and maddening for my taste. The events leading up to the outbreak of the war take forever to unfold. While the last section is the most interesting part, I had already read 500 pages of artificial construction and even the last 150 pages were a little bit repetitive - Andras is called for labor duty for 3 times and it\u2019s all the same \u2013 the tears, the drama, his love for Klara and his family. This is understandable of course, I guess Julie Orringer tried to show the horrors of the war. The plot is utterly predictable and many of the plot twists are unbelievable. Each time Andras or Klara get involved in an arduous situation, it is solved categorically with one coincidence piled upon another and those extraordinary coincidences on which the plot hinges completely blocked my willing suspension of disbelief and annoyed me greatly. The author spoils some ripe possibilities of conflict between characters and situations by resolving it with over-precious and highly implausible fixes. It was as if Orringer was trying to fill every page with something for everyone by having an angry teenage girl, a murderer, a gay, an arrogant artist, and the list goes on. The over 600 page book could have been a romance novel in about 250 pages. There are also several other moments that make this story looks more like melodrama - for example the story of Ilana, the Italian Orthodox Rabbi's daughter that Tibor helps run away to Paris to secretly marry Andras' friend, the handsome Ben Yakov - who is actually in love with Lucia, an African American student who doesn\u2019t want to marry, and of course Tibor falls in love with Ilana, while Ben Yakov hopes the beautiful Ilana will help him forget Lucia. The characters were all too generic, heroic, good and perfect, with no realistic quirks to flesh them out, the sorts that one often encounters in Holocaust/World War II fiction. None of the characters has ever had a selfish private thought, it goes beyond human believability. Good characters are always good, bad characters are always bad - no sense of nuance, no refinements, no subtext. The hero of the story, Andras Levi, seems to be without fault, brave, inteligent, charming, honest, devoted, just exceptional in every way. He is the ideal son, an excellent student, a dedicated friend and brother and a great patriot. In fact, he is so perfect that everyone around him must also be perfect - his parents are extraordianry, his brothers Tibor and Matyas are immeasurably sensitive, brave and infallible. One might say it\u2019s just the Levi family who are so perfect but no, Klara Morgenstern, Andras\u2019 love interest, is also dramatic perfection despite having a big \u201cshocking\u201d secret and a 16 year old strong willed daughter. Their lovemaking, of course, is perfection itself. And Andras\u2019 friend, Polaner, is so innocent, nice and good, he is gay and this is the 1930s, but of course these people are all so good that nobody has a speck of ambivalence, he is just loved and accepted perfectly for who he is. Andras is repeatedly saved from difficulties and it\u2019s hard to believe someone is so lucky but the author tries to justify this by explaining that luck just happens to run in the L\u00e9vi family. She tells the story of Andras' father nickname \"Lucky B\u00e9la\" - by age 30 he had lost everything and was living in depression on the community's charity until a wise rabbi convinced him to try and turn around his fortunes. The only character with some sort of transformation is J\u00f3zsef H\u00e1sz, someone who started out as a rich snob and then did some deep self-reflection after he realized his money meant nothing in the face of war. There is also another thing I didn\u2019t like about this book \u2013 the numerous inaccuracies such as the Hungarian Minister of Defense using a Lada automobile during World War II, when Orringer plunges the reader into the actual horrors of the war, she needed Andras to go back to Hungary so he found out that the Hungarian government required him (and other Jews) to return to Hungary to renew their student visas. But isn\u2019t the French government who has the authority to determine whether Andras could remain in France? And since when poor people could afford to live in the Latin Quarter? The strength of Orringer's novel is the setting and time period - the era is certainly disturbing, fascinating and always makes for gripping reading, if this had been just a character study, it would have fallen flat. This is average fare for the Holocaust/World War II genre, there are many better novels and memoirs written about or during this time in period history. The story is familiar and the author didn't bring anything fresh to the table. All in all , the characters and story were ludicrously soapy and unctuous, and the writing overwrought and sentimental, too much of the dialogue was unnatural and rigid. Rather than a gripping Holocaust story, the book is an endless, shallow, convoluted romance at its core and if you don't like romance novels, there is not really much reason to read this. \u201cAnd what if I fail?\u201c \"Ah! Then you\u2019ll have a story to tell.\u201d ...more You know how those Holocaust movies come out every few years, and they are very serious-minded, and everyone gives them awards because, let's face it, it's pretty easy to make a compelling movie when you've got a story with this kind of dramatic weight to tell, but sometimes, if you're being honest, you think \"oh man, not another one ,\" which is horrible, because these stories were based on things that really happened, terrible things, and am I an asshole for thinking that I just can't sit throug You know how those Holocaust movies come out every few years, and they are very serious-minded, and everyone gives them awards because, let's face it, it's pretty easy to make a compelling movie when you've got a story with this kind of dramatic weight to tell, but sometimes, if you're being honest, you think \"oh man, not another one ,\" which is horrible, because these stories were based on things that really happened, terrible things, and am I an asshole for thinking that I just can't sit through yet another movie with a scene of a bunch of people crying and being shoved onto train cars, and you honestly can't even say if the movie is good or not anymore because at this point it's all just formulaic button pushing? This is that movie, but as a book. And instead of lasting two or three hours, it's however long it takes you to read 600 pages. I feel a little bad about giving this book two stars. I mean: laudable topic (Holocaust, can't argue with that), impeccably researched (and it shows), epic in scope (I mean, 600+ pages!), first-time novel from an author with some chops. Except. Except. I really enjoyed about half of this book. It's an epic in the David Lean sense of the word. If it was published in the '50s, he would have directed it right after he made Dr. Zhivago. Wartime romance, and all that those words entail. And the first half, which is all setup, I actually really enjoyed. We meet our lead characters, architectural student Andras and his mysterious love interest Klara, who themselves meet cute (mysterious letters are involved) in Paris in 1938 and carry on a tortured romance for the ages. It's pretty much basically Twilight: \"We must be together! We can't be together! I love you! We can never be! Make me into a vampire! \" It's totally cheesy, but it kind of works, mostly because Julie Orringer is so fabulous at creating a sense of place. Reading this so made me want to travel back in time and be a bohemian in Paris. You know, back when poor people could afford to live in the Latin Quarter. Oh, but then the war starts, and you really start to feel those 600 pages. The first half covers a a bit over a year in 300 pages, but the last 300 cram in the entire war, and things quickly dissolve into one clearly factual, historically accurate outrage after another (work camp, worse work camp, even worse work camp, taken away on trains in the night, etc. etc.) and reading it is just... miserable. By the end, I honestly could not wait to be done with it. Aside from Andras and Klara, the cast of characters is pretty flat, and reading all the horrors they suffer through is oddly numbing instead of provoking. I mean, I learned a lot about Hungary during the Holocaust, how the Jews were relatively safe most of the war (though the men were sent to labor camps, for the most part the population lived freely in the country and avoided the death camps), how things quickly became unimaginably horrible only a few months before Hitler's death. But all the repetitive DETAIL, ugh, it just totally removes all feeling from the story, which is odd because the epilogue makes it pretty clear this is the story of the author's family. The carefully crafted prose is so crammed full it feels turgid instead of poetic, and it's doubly distracting because you can feel it reaching for poetry, and getting a little purple in the process. So yeah, 2 stars. Laudable. But I wouldn't suggest reading it or anything. ...more Excellent for my first read of the year. An epic story of WWII, building on the coming of age tale of a young Hungarian man about to travel to Paris to begin his studies to become an architect. The year is 1937. He is Jewish. So much is about to happen, is actually in the initial stages of development throughout Europe. These changes will alter history for this student, Andras, his family, his friends, his nation, and ultimately much of the world. Orringer provides a wonderfully full story, rich Excellent for my first read of the year. An epic story of WWII, building on the coming of age tale of a young Hungarian man about to travel to Paris to begin his studies to become an architect. The year is 1937. He is Jewish. So much is about to happen, is actually in the initial stages of development throughout Europe. These changes will alter history for this student, Andras, his family, his friends, his nation, and ultimately much of the world. Orringer provides a wonderfully full story, rich in detail new to me in spite of prior knowledge of the era. Her writing is up to the challenge and was, at times, spellbinding. I found myself thinking of Dr Zhivago as I read of some of the descriptions of Hungarian towns and rural camps. All in all, The Invisible Bridge is one of those rare books that has lived up to the advance rave reviews I'd read and heard in the past. I highly recommend it. ...more I was 300 pages into this book, when I realized the four Jewish young men were still in Paris, nothing of significance was happening, and the war had not yet begun. I was so bored at this point that I found myself anxiously awaiting the Holocaust. I am totally missing something in this book. It is a standard, predictable Holocaust story, that manages to make even World War II look dull. I guess I dont find any of the characters more than cardboard, and the central love story unconvincing, and (d I was 300 pages into this book, when I realized the four Jewish young men were still in Paris, nothing of significance was happening, and the war had not yet begun. I was so bored at this point that I found myself anxiously awaiting the Holocaust. I am totally missing something in this book. It is a standard, predictable Holocaust story, that manages to make even World War II look dull. I guess I dont find any of the characters more than cardboard, and the central love story unconvincing, and (dare I say it) silly. This book came highly recommended, and I had been very much looking forward to reading it, so I am all the more disappointed. ...more NO SPOILERS I absolutely LOVE this book! Put it at the top of your pile of books to read. Order it at the library NOW or buy it. You will not regret this purchase! Me, I wish I had bought a prettier edition. This book never lags and it is 600pages long. Lots happens, the plot is chock full with this and that. Me, I don't usually go for plot driven books, but this book has everything. History is so wonderfully interwoven into the primary characters' lives that the history book facts take on a pers NO SPOILERS I absolutely LOVE this book! Put it at the top of your pile of books to read. Order it at the library NOW or buy it. You will not regret this purchase! Me, I wish I had bought a prettier edition. This book never lags and it is 600pages long. Lots happens, the plot is chock full with this and that. Me, I don't usually go for plot driven books, but this book has everything. History is so wonderfully interwoven into the primary characters' lives that the history book facts take on a personal dimension. You learn about what happened in Hungary before, during and immediately after WW2. You see, hear and smell Paris and Budapest. You learn about architectural names and theories. You learn about ballet in Hungary during this time period. Even though the writing is plot oriented it also sometimes focuses on the philosophical. What else? It felt authentic. What happened felt very real. The momentum builds and builds and you simply cannot put the book down. Even though much of what happens is horrendous, the book does not leave the reader feeling sad and without hope. There is humor. This book deserves all the hype that currently surrounds it! What a surprise! I loved it. Maude, you are the one who pushed me to read this book - THANK YOU!!!!!! I must pay attention when you tell me to read a book. On page 367: Here is just one example of lines that get me thinking. Why am I so different?! To the question of whether perhaps a couple should emigrate to the US, the reply is: \u201cIt is almost impossible to get an entry visa now. Even if we could I am not certain I\u2019d want to. Our families are here. I can\u2019t imagine leaving my mother again, particularly now. And it is hard to imagine starting another life in a strange country.\u201d So many people think this way. Why don\u2019t I? Although such a move IS very difficult it is also exciting and wonderful. I love learning about another culture. The best way to do that is to plop yourself down into that foreign place. Family relationships are strong enough to allow one to do this. You will always love each other, and correspondence is possible and then when you return there is so much to share. Through page 356: I am STILL enjoying myself. This author knows how to tell a story. You are captivated; you want to know how each character is going to deal with what destiny throws at them! Secondly, ideas are expressed and they get you thinking\u2026.. The reader cannot help but ask himself what he would do in such a situation. Thirdly the description of cities is fantastic. You feel as though you are there too! You experience Paris and Budapest and I don\u2019t yet what other cities will be added! Finally there is an abundance of interesting information about architecture, history, dance\u2026.. to name but a few topics! How has the author collected such a wide span of ingredients? She seems to really KNOW each subject well. And lastly it is funny sometimes what she dreams up for these characters to do. They print a newspaper, but to know what is in this paper you have to read the book. It is just too funny! You laugh and you cry and you hold your breath. It all seems believable! Through page 45: This book is like sinking into a cozy armchair and then into a whole other world. Pure enjoyment! You don't even have to make a list of character names b/c you are given enticing character descriptions that you cannot confuse or forget. Back to the book, back to Andras and Paris and the Quartier Latin! Through page 30: I opened this book with trepidation \u2013 it is almost 600 pages long, a big hunker of a book. It has gotten rave reviews, but will I like it?! It is about the three Jewish Hungarian L\u00e9vi brothers and their paths across Europe through WW2. The eldest, Tibor, remains currently in Budapest awaiting a scholarship so he can begin medical studies in Modena, Italy. The youngest brother, M\u00e1ty\u00e1s, remains at his studies in Debrecen, outside Budapest. Andras, the middle brother, is off to study architecture at the Ecole Sp\u00e9ciale on a scholarship. Already Andras has received a mysterious letter to deliver to a Monsieur C. Morgenstern on rue de S\u00e9vign\u00e9 in Paris and has met Z\u00f3ltan Novak who runs the theatre Sara-Bernhardt, also in Paris. At the moment Andras only wishes he had paid more attention during his two years studying French. Well, he has arrived in Paris. Paris is picturesquely described, its people, its streets and the high ceiling apartments adorned with ornate caste-iron balconies and zinc mansards. \"\u2026he ventured out into the Quartier Latin and the artfully dishevelled students \u2026.\" (page 27) \"\u2026he wrapped the orange silk scarf around his neck again and put on a loose jacket of smoke-colored wool.\" (page 27) \"To get to school he had to pass the Jardin du Luxembourg, past the elaborate Palais, past the fountain and the flowerbeds teeming with large snapdragons and marigolds. Children sailed elegant miniature boats in the fountain\u2026..There were green benches and close-clipped limes, a carousel with painted horses\u2026.Andras walked down the rue de Vaugirard, with its art-supply shops and narrow caf\u00e9s and secondhand bookstores, then down the wide boulevard Raspail with its stately apartment buildings. Already he felt a little more Parisian than he had when he first arrived. He had his apartment key on a cord around his neck, a copy of l'Oeuvre under his arm: He had knotted his scarf the way J\u00f3zs\u00e9f H\u00e1sz had knotted his, and he wore the strap of his leather bag slung diagonally across his chest, in the manner of the students of the Latin Quarter.\" (page 30) What one would see in Paris and the Parisians themselves are brought to life by the author's words. Also well described is the mounting political tension, prior to WW2. It is now 1937. ...more There are some books that you read and forget about. I enjoy reading author Janet Evanovich for one and have read every new Stephanie Plum but can't recall the plot a week later. Then there are some, like The Invisible Bridge, that linger and linger. IMHO, the book makes me think about \"what if everything were to suddenly change?\" What if I were ripped from my comfortable, everyday life and put into a situation of escalating deprivation? What if I were a Hungarian Jew in 1944/45? How could I maint There are some books that you read and forget about. I enjoy reading author Janet Evanovich for one and have read every new Stephanie Plum but can't recall the plot a week later. Then there are some, like The Invisible Bridge, that linger and linger. IMHO, the book makes me think about \"what if everything were to suddenly change?\" What if I were ripped from my comfortable, everyday life and put into a situation of escalating deprivation? What if I were a Hungarian Jew in 1944/45? How could I maintain my humanity in the face of indifferent evil? The evil might not exactly be indifferent since it was sincerely dedicated to my extermination, but perhaps indifferent to my thoughts, feelings and pain? There have been scores of books that have addressed this topic but this one somehow resonated more than the others. Perhaps it was because their prewar lives seemed so familiar and normal. I am not Jewish, btw, but always wondered if I could have survived those experiences and survived without losing all compassion? ...more This book was recommended to me by a fellow Hungarian and friend of my mother's, and at first I was a bit disappointed by it. It was rapidly falling into the category of chick-lit for me -- lots of relationship buildup, budding romance, young handsome talented man, mysterious woman, etc., light on the \"historical.\" At one point I feared it was devolving into melodrama. At about the halfway point of the novel, though, the tone shifted, and it became a much better book with real depth. I've read a This book was recommended to me by a fellow Hungarian and friend of my mother's, and at first I was a bit disappointed by it. It was rapidly falling into the category of chick-lit for me -- lots of relationship buildup, budding romance, young handsome talented man, mysterious woman, etc., light on the \"historical.\" At one point I feared it was devolving into melodrama. At about the halfway point of the novel, though, the tone shifted, and it became a much better book with real depth. I've read a lot of WWII fiction, but seldom one that I found as moving as this one, and never have I read about Hungary's role in WWII. It is without doubt one that will stay with me for a long time. ...more Romance! Persecution! War! Tragedy! More romance! Bloated length in surplus of 500 pages! The Invisible Bridge is a WWII epic like every other WWII epic you've ever encountered, the kind of big-ass tale that David Lean or Anthony Minghella would've loved to get their cinematic mitts on\u2014 Dr. Zhivago as imagined by a hip Brooklyn cutie . Reviews have been hyperbolically ecstatic, but why? I guess there's stuff to admire here: the heavy-duty plotting is assured and largely engaging, and there's enough Romance! Persecution! War! Tragedy! More romance! Bloated length in surplus of 500 pages! The Invisible Bridge is a WWII epic like every other WWII epic you've ever encountered, the kind of big-ass tale that David Lean or Anthony Minghella would've loved to get their cinematic mitts on\u2014 Dr. Zhivago as imagined by a hip Brooklyn cutie . Reviews have been hyperbolically ecstatic, but why? I guess there's stuff to admire here: the heavy-duty plotting is assured and largely engaging, and there's enough superficial gravity for a dozen Oscar-baiting film adaptations. Indeed, literary Oscar-bait is the most succinct phrase I can think of to describe Orringer's book: a technically accomplished but bloodless epic, conducted with the utmost politesse , that reaches straight for the middle. At all times, this book is about its surface story and nothing else. We follow the travails of a young Jewish Hungarian man as he moves to Paris to study architecture, falls in love with an older woman (a woman with a mysterious past! ), gets called back to Hungary to serve in labor companies during the war, endures various shades of Holocaust-related hardship, and is reunited with (the surviving members of) his family, all of whom move to America where they live happily ever after. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! OK, so you can glibly reduce any narrative to its barest plot outline and make it sound silly. But in this case, that's pretty much all there is \u2014the rest is an endless barrage of details rendered in blandly utilitarian prose. No subtext, all text\u2014and so goddamn much of it! Every major character is kind and well-behaved, while unkind characters are relegated to marginal villainy; Orringer has no room for moral ambiguity. Look, I know I'm being harsh, but the fact is that you've heard this story before, and when Orringer drags out the old \"we must tell the stories of the Holocaust so future generations will understand\" chestnut, well\u2014sure, that logic is unassailable vis-a-vis education and intra-family storytelling, but it doesn't necessarily apply to art anymore. If you're going to tell a story about the suffering of Jews during WWII, you had better find a fresh angle. One reason why Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds was such a breath of fresh air was QT's refusal to treat his sacrosanct material with kid gloves\u2014the movie plays more like a Spaghetti Western than a respectable middlebrow product, and that unexpected perspective allowed him to tell a story with more verve and poignance in any one of its five chapters than in the whole of The Invisible Bridge . To cite just one example, Orringer seems afraid of actually writing about death, despite her chosen milieu; she shoehorns nearly all of the story's tragic events into a single brief chapter, glossing over them quickly on the way to the forthcoming happy reunion. Contrast this with the unforgettable scene in Basterds where Shoshanna and Zoller meet their fates in the projection booth. An unfair comparison? Well, I'm talking about works from two different mediums here, so yeah, kind of. But Tarantino's film ought to be the standard-bearer for any contemporary artist who wants to tell a story about Jews in World War II. And this book doesn't measure up. Listen, I'm not heartless, and the Jews are my people. Identity-related empathy is probably what kept me reading to the finish line. Scattered moments and passages in this book affected me. But that has virtually nothing to do with Orringer's artistry and everything to do with being made to face some of history's ugly truths. Which I don't need a mediocre 600-page novel to remind me of, really. BTW, full credit for that \"Mittelbr\u00e4u\" joke goes to Michael Sicinski . What, you thought I was clever enough to come up with a gem like that myself? ...more This is it! The book you want to read if you are one who steers clear of that horrific time in history, where millions of men, women, and children were brutalized, tortured and marched to their deaths because they were Jewish. I understand what happened and I don't want to read any more details of the insane treatment of these human beings as I find it so painful. Therefore I shy away from the subject, but this book was mostly a joy to read. My compliments to the author, Julie Orringer, who can This is it! The book you want to read if you are one who steers clear of that horrific time in history, where millions of men, women, and children were brutalized, tortured and marched to their deaths because they were Jewish. I understand what happened and I don't want to read any more details of the insane treatment of these human beings as I find it so painful. Therefore I shy away from the subject, but this book was mostly a joy to read. My compliments to the author, Julie Orringer, who can take this subject matter and teach us something good and valuable. This is a work of art. The author's literary skills are like poetry. She thoughtfully writes at an engaging pace and with perfectly placed details that draw you in.... I smiled at the beautiful imagery, I often stopped to ponder what I just read, and I placed myself in their lives. I could feel the wind, their pain, their happiness, smell the trees...her detail writing was cinematic. I walked the streets of Paris and Budapest, dug the trenches with the dying, and I was a witness to a love that last forever, a family bound by war and a yearning to survive, so they could all someday reunite. Extraordinary writing through out, but one of my favorite examples of this author\u2019s ability to write a story within a story, is her description of a tree being cut down in the forest (page 322). The author takes a mundane task of woodcutting, and as you read, you realize, she has told you so much more than just simply how the cast of characters cut down the tree. Describing it as \"the true death of the tree\" and how that death can be used as a metaphor for the lives of the people, the boundary of their country, the destruction of war, and the end of many things. It is so much more, and you the reader, can see it and feel it...the words make you think...by describing one task of cutting down a tree, the author is teaching. We all know how the story ends...the war ends, but you now have a chance to live their lives, without fear, from the beginning to the end. Go ahead, take this journey. The history is educational, but the people are inspiring. Filled with life, survival, sacrifice, inspiration, humor, love, heartache, devastation, courage, strength, friendships and family...this book has it all and it will teach you so much more than just another social lesson on the injustice of this horrific time in history. ...more Newcomer Orringer provides a great saga of two Hungarian Jewish families before and during World War 2. Very uplifting and elucidating on how the strengths of character, love, and courage can build a future despite the misfortunes of history. Does not dwell on the origins or significance of man's inhumanity to man in the same manner as some Holocaust accounts. The progression to the Final Solution was a much more insidious, slow progression for Hungary, which retained some independence from Germ Newcomer Orringer provides a great saga of two Hungarian Jewish families before and during World War 2. Very uplifting and elucidating on how the strengths of character, love, and courage can build a future despite the misfortunes of history. Does not dwell on the origins or significance of man's inhumanity to man in the same manner as some Holocaust accounts. The progression to the Final Solution was a much more insidious, slow progression for Hungary, which retained some independence from Germany until the last year of the war. Instead, there was a long period of conscription of male Jews into brutal work camps, which is the fate of many of the characters in the novel. The lives of Andras, an architecture student in Paris, his love Klara, a ballet teacher, and his brother Tibor, who studies medicine in Italy, are a wonderful focus for a long, engaging and satisfying story, which like the best of novels, has the full spectrum of life as its canvas. ...more While I was reading this, I never once thought ahead to what I'd read next, so engrossing was this novel. It's so readable and enlightening and luxurious and terrifying. Now that I'm finished, I feel kind of lost. (What do I read now? What should follow this?) At first I thought this was almost too good because it was so pleasurable. But then in the second half of the book (the first takes place in Paris, the second in Hungary), you think back to the characters you met at the beginning, who and w While I was reading this, I never once thought ahead to what I'd read next, so engrossing was this novel. It's so readable and enlightening and luxurious and terrifying. Now that I'm finished, I feel kind of lost. (What do I read now? What should follow this?) At first I thought this was almost too good because it was so pleasurable. But then in the second half of the book (the first takes place in Paris, the second in Hungary), you think back to the characters you met at the beginning, who and where they were, and you are broken by what they've become and what's happened to them. For instance, the character J\u00f3zsef: compare how you meet him with what he becomes, and he's a secondary character. And more than any book I've read lately, you are very present with the characters. Corny maybe to say this but you live with them and fear with them and wonder and well, everything. Outside, three pygmy goats stepped out of the gorse and ate all the clipped flowers and a good many half-grown lettuces and an empty cardboard matchbook and Klara's forgotten handkerchief. p. 188 I wouldn't trade your complication for anyone else's simplicity. p. 225 (Andras to Klara) as of p. 231: There's a real feeling here of people on the verge of war and how it must have felt to not know what was going to happen. You don't get that sense very clearly, very often, because we can only read such stories from our position of knowledge and hindsight. as of p. 434: It's slow-paced in a satisfying way, letting you get deep into the times, characters, details enough that you, well, feel like you're there with them, in their present. It's comprehensive and thorough. The fact that he'd had a happy childhood in Kony\u00e1r, had gone to school, learned to draw, gone to Paris, fallen in love, studied, worked, had a son--none of it was predictive of what might happen in the future; it was largely a matter of luck. None of it was a reward, no more than the Munkaszolg\u00e1lat was a punishment; none of it entitled him to future happiness or comfort. Men and women suffered all over the world. p. 484 Why would a man not argue his own shameful culpability, why would he not crave responsibility for disaster, when the alternative was to feel himself to be nothing more than a speck of human dust? p. 489 Strange, Andras thought, that war could lead you involuntarily to forgive a person who didn't deserve forgiveness, just as it might make you kill a man you didn't hate. p. 516 ...more Julie Orringer immediately captivated me with her storytelling. Although I have been well acquainted with facts of the Holocaust and WW II, she introduced features about Hungary's involvement during the period which were new knowledge for me. Her narrative in this sweeping account brought compelling and effecting aspects throughout the novel. One could easily visualize how life was lived prior to the war, as well as the brutality and suffering during the wartime. Orringer's characters seemed rea Julie Orringer immediately captivated me with her storytelling. Although I have been well acquainted with facts of the Holocaust and WW II, she introduced features about Hungary's involvement during the period which were new knowledge for me. Her narrative in this sweeping account brought compelling and effecting aspects throughout the novel. One could easily visualize how life was lived prior to the war, as well as the brutality and suffering during the wartime. Orringer's characters seemed real as they lived through ordinary daily activities, struggled later to maintain dignity and solidarity with family, spouses and friends. The suffering they experienced as time progressed seemed palpable. How each dealt with indescribable cruelty or indifference gave a good view of her sharp insight into human nature. She deftly intertwined her telling of historical facts with the suffering of people while maintaining a sense of suspense and realism. It was clear to me that Orringer had researched her facts and materials well. While reading her final section in acknowledgements, I was surprised to discover that she is a member of the family which is chronicled in this book. It would be good to learn more about their lives. ...more I had read great review of this book and waited a long time with anticipation for this book to come out as a trade paperback. I was not disappointed. I had trouble putting it down, reading its over 700 page in a week--a busy work week at that. I liked the characters and the story. But mostly I thought Orringer did a great job of conveying what it must have felt like to be Jewish and in Hungary during World War II. I did not know much about Hungary's role during the war other than that many Jews I had read great review of this book and waited a long time with anticipation for this book to come out as a trade paperback. I was not disappointed. I had trouble putting it down, reading its over 700 page in a week--a busy work week at that. I liked the characters and the story. But mostly I thought Orringer did a great job of conveying what it must have felt like to be Jewish and in Hungary during World War II. I did not know much about Hungary's role during the war other than that many Jews had been killed. Orringer conveyed the horror and absurdity of the war from a specific historical point of view and from a very human point of view. ...more Disappointing and painfully long. Let me start by saying that I have no doubt that Julie Orringer's grandparents went through the ultimate hell in WWII and that their stories are probably fascinating. The problem is that their story deserved to be told by someone who will not write it as a smaltzy, humorless, endless slog. I have a real problem when character's are so in love or have such bond that they never seriously argue and they read each other's minds as if this proves that theirs is the gre Disappointing and painfully long. Let me start by saying that I have no doubt that Julie Orringer's grandparents went through the ultimate hell in WWII and that their stories are probably fascinating. The problem is that their story deserved to be told by someone who will not write it as a smaltzy, humorless, endless slog. I have a real problem when character's are so in love or have such bond that they never seriously argue and they read each other's minds as if this proves that theirs is the greatest relationship the world has ever known. In The Invisible Bridge it is not just the central love affair between Andrea and Klara but many other relationships are steeped with this sort of romanticized bond. Orringer writes that Andreas and his brother Tibor \"had perfect comprehension of each other's minds and inward lives.\" I'm not even sure I would want anyone to have a perfect comprehension of my mind and yet this is presented as some sort of profound relationship goal that I would associate with Harlequin or Hallmark. Over the top and unworthy of a book that should be telling a more gritty realistic story. Perhaps the biggest problem with this book is that Orringer does not trust her reader. About half way through the book (and I'm not sure why it took me this long) I started to notice that Orringer belabors so many points that she tells the reader what to think rather than letting the reader draw their own conclusions based on the dialog and actions of her characters. She doesn't trust us to figure it out so she tells us how to interpret everything. When Tibor has grown so numb by the war that he sympathizes not with the parents of a dead boy, but with the surgeon who wants them to leave the operating room, Orringer has Andreas think \"He knew Tibor didn't need reassurance that he was a good man, that under different circumstances, his sympathies would have lain with the parent instead of the exhausted surgeon...\" If the reader doesn't already know that without being explicitly told then Orringer failed in developing that character. She does this repeatedly throughout the book (which is probably why the story clocks in at 758 pages in paperback) A lot of editing might have helped because beneath it all is a potentially good story. I was really looking forward to this book after reading so many fantastic reviews - maybe part of the problem is overhype and maybe I'm being overly critical because it was such a let down from what I thought it was going to be. So if this book is on your TBR list don't say I didn't warn you. ...more The Invisible Bridge is a long book (around 750 pages) and it FEELS like a long book, but that's not a criticism. What sets this book apart in a relatively common genre (historical fiction set during the Holocaust) is incredible detail and development. The author spends hundreds and hundreds of pages delving into the almost daily lives of the protagonist and his friends and family before the war, allowing the reader to know the characters so well that it would be difficult to maintain any sort o The Invisible Bridge is a long book (around 750 pages) and it FEELS like a long book, but that's not a criticism. What sets this book apart in a relatively common genre (historical fiction set during the Holocaust) is incredible detail and development. The author spends hundreds and hundreds of pages delving into the almost daily lives of the protagonist and his friends and family before the war, allowing the reader to know the characters so well that it would be difficult to maintain any sort of distance or aloofness from their eventual hardship and pain. The central character is a young Hungarian Jew, Andras, who as the novel opens is traveling to Paris on a scholarship to study architecture. He is an extremely well developed character, and through him the reader gets to know his love, Klara (the many ups and downs and complications of the courtship is rendered in extensive detail, and while that section drags on a bit, it also creates a much more realistic love story than can be found in many novels) their families, Andras' close friends in Paris, and many others. So much time is spent developing the characters and their relationships that it is surprisingly easy to get lost in their day to day lives, and momentarily forget the tragedy lurking just down the path. When the dark events of the Holocaust do begin to impact Andras and everyone he loves, \"knowing\" the characters so well makes for a very emotional reading experience. In my opinion, some of the most powerful works about the Holocaust (or for that matter, any large-scale human tragedy) are those which focus on individuals. As shocking and tragic as statistics are, they can seem overwhelming or even impossible to comprehend. \"Seeing\" the horror through one realistic character's eyes, watching tragedies befall characters that you care for, that makes it very tangible. As well as the length, some readers might be put off by the tone (although I found it oddly refreshing). There is none of the jaded/cool/witty/edgy aloofness that is a common trend in many literary novels these days. It isn't overly sentimental (for the most part), but the author doesn't shy away from raw feeling and emotion. ...more 4  stars I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of reading the book but I\u2019m balking at writing this review; although I do think perhaps I wrote more status updates for this book than I have for any other book. I was very lucky to read this book as a buddy read with Goodreads\u2019 friend Diane, as well as for my book club (thanks to them for accepting my recommendation so I finally got to this) and as a bonus my friend\u2019s partner is Hungarian and he was able to give some extra understanding and informatio 4 \u00be stars I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of reading the book but I\u2019m balking at writing this review; although I do think perhaps I wrote more status updates for this book than I have for any other book. I was very lucky to read this book as a buddy read with Goodreads\u2019 friend Diane, as well as for my book club (thanks to them for accepting my recommendation so I finally got to this) and as a bonus my friend\u2019s partner is Hungarian and he was able to give some extra understanding and information about Hungary during the WWII period, and just regularly email chatting about this book with Diane made it a richer reading experience, and to top it off we managed to stay almost in sync with where we were in the book, and we started and finished the book on the same days. I loved Julie Orringer 's book of short stories How to Breathe Underwater: Stories when I read it years ago, and it made such an impression on me that I have to say it\u2019s one of my favorite collections of short stories, so I\u2019ve wanted to read this novel ever since it was first published, and it did not disappoint, and I\u2019m eager to read any future books by this author. I\u2019ll start off with the few things I didn\u2019t like as I might as well get those out of the way: Despite the dark content I thought it somewhat minimized and romanticized the experiences of Jewish citizens of Hungary during WWII, and it played around at least a bit with what was the reality. Not with most of it, but with some of it. Some of what happened just wasn\u2019t realistic. Of course, some survivors have shown that truth really can be stranger than fiction; many of their stories seem impossible. Also, I didn\u2019t need everything and everyone\u2019s fates wrapped up so neatly and I thought that one character was wrapped up in an implausible way and I didn\u2019t need to learn their fate firsthand, and yet I would have liked to know even more about one character\u2019s life than what we found out, although that latter may not be a flaw in the book to not satisfy my curiosity. But, this book is a masterpiece in my opinion. It\u2019s epic in scope but despite its length I found it to be a very fast read. I thought there was stellar character development and storytelling. I love how my opinions of the characters kept changing, as they and their situations changed. To me, that\u2019s a mark of a great author/storyteller, when I can be affected in that way. I found the book very difficult to put down, even at the end of sections, and particularly right before the last section I had to keep reading for at least a few pages more before taking a break. It\u2019s beautifully written, and has amazingly vivid descriptions. I cared so much about the people and most seemed completely authentic. I enjoyed the way real people and events were incorporated into the story but, as is usual when this happens in a historical fiction story, I became curious about what was real and what was fiction; I did do online searches about some people and places and events as I read. And, I felt as though I was in Paris and in Budapest and in the other locations in the book, right there, in that time and in those places. I love the brothers\u2019 relationships with one another, how they so obviously confide in each other about everything and how they jump to help each other. I got a kick out of how Tibor stays in his role as the big brother. At first I wasn\u2019t so enthusiastic about the love story/stories but I came around and ended up being glad they were there and thought they greatly enriched the story. I just loved the epilogue. I found it moving and so genuine seeming. Even the acknowledgments practically had me bawling and came as more of a surprise to me than much of the details of the story in the novel. I hope Orringer does another Q & A with Goodreads because I now have so much to ask her. (I also recommend waiting to read the acknowledgments until after reading the novel.) This book is very quotable. Here are just a couple ones noteworthy for me: \"How astounding that a ship that size could shrink to the size of a house, and then to the size of a car; the size of a desk, a book, a shoe, a walnut, a grain of rice, a grain of sand. How astounding that the largest thing he'd ever seen was still no match for the diminishing effect of distance.\" and especially Andras: \u201cAnd what if I fail?\u201d Andras\u2019 father to young adult Andras: \u201cAh! Then you\u2019ll have a story to tell.\u201d And re the meaning of the title: When I started the book I\u2019d assumed it referred to how there would be a link/connection between loved ones, even over great distance, the invisible but real ties between the brothers, lovers, and other people important to one another, and I\u2019m sticking to that as one of its meanings. But the only time the term was used in the book, well, I\u2019d appreciate others\u2019 opinions, including those of my book club members next week, and any Goodreads members who\u2019ve read the book. And, interestingly, when I went back to find this quote I\u2019d thought the book had that illustration as the description was so vividly real, as are so many of the descriptions in the book. So, referring to the main character Andras, who is an architecture student: \u201cthe invisible bridge\u201d in chapter 27: \u201cand in honor of Andras, an article about a feat of architecture (Engineering Marvel! Paris-trained architect-engineer Andras L\u00e9vi has designed an invisible bridge. The materials are remarkably lightweight and it can be constructed in almost no time. It is undetectable by enemy forces. Tests suggest the design of the bridge may still need some refinement: a battalion of the Hungarian Army mysteriously plunged into a chasm while crossing. Some argue however that the bridge has already attained a perfect form.) \u2026 The architecture piece called or an image of the architect pointing proudly at an empty gorge.\u201d Opinions? Thanks! Well, and I was right; I didn\u2019t do justice to the book. I enjoyed reading it and discussing it as I was reading, and I think I\u2019ll enjoy whatever discussion we have about it at my book club meeting, but I don\u2019t feel like writing about it. I do think I\u2019ll be thinking about this book and its characters for a long time. Oh, and I have to add, I got very attached to many of the characters and it's hard to single out anybody but I felt particularly fond of (view spoiler) [ Polander (hide spoiler) ] . ...more An all right book. Easy read, flows quite well, but unfortunately the author did a few things I really did not like. For one, the book has a serious penchant for the melodramatic; the tendency of people to \"randomly meet\" in climactic moments and the initial love story rather put me off. For another, the author practically glossed (in three chapters out of 40) over the entirety of the Holocaust of the Hungarian Jews. She spent an inordinate amount of time on the work gangs, and almost none at al An all right book. Easy read, flows quite well, but unfortunately the author did a few things I really did not like. For one, the book has a serious penchant for the melodramatic; the tendency of people to \"randomly meet\" in climactic moments and the initial love story rather put me off. For another, the author practically glossed (in three chapters out of 40) over the entirety of the Holocaust of the Hungarian Jews. She spent an inordinate amount of time on the work gangs, and almost none at all on the occupation and deportation. In the meantime, though, the Hungarian Jews' Holocaust is one of the most horrific in the entire lot, because of its almost total scope, its speed, suddenness and totality. Unlike in most other places, the Hungarians arrived immediately into the death camps, and only a very small few of them were picked out to work. Lastly, I felt the survival of the protagonists' nuclear family (wife and two infant children) to be staggeringly sappy and unlikely. It appeared to me to be achieved in incredibly contrived ways, just to let them all live. As infants were among the first to die during that period, the survival of both children felt practically surreal. On the whole, though, I found the book to be an enjoyable one, quite a good, fast read, that did not feel bogged down by its 750+ pages. ...more I'm a book snob. This fulfills my endless craving for beautiful prose and the kind of original romance that offers a much-needed respite from irony, self-deprecation, i.e. shelves of typical American workshop fare. Yes, she did graduate from Iowa Writer's workshop,taught at Stanford, but the novel gave me the feeling of European writing without having to endure some of the more intolerable self-indulgences and idiosyncrasies of that category. I enjoyed Invisible Bridge as much as Hemon's The Que I'm a book snob. This fulfills my endless craving for beautiful prose and the kind of original romance that offers a much-needed respite from irony, self-deprecation, i.e. shelves of typical American workshop fare. Yes, she did graduate from Iowa Writer's workshop,taught at Stanford, but the novel gave me the feeling of European writing without having to endure some of the more intolerable self-indulgences and idiosyncrasies of that category. I enjoyed Invisible Bridge as much as Hemon's The Question of Bruno and The Lazarus Project. I'm a sucker for anything about Central/Eastern Europe made digestible for the Western palate. Not perfect--the account of the Hungarian holocaust was at least new info, but in moments felt like a perfunctory echo of other Holocaust literature. Nonetheless, I loved it. Read it on my Kindle in about a weekend--much to my surprise when I found that the hardback was over 600 pages long! ...more It was like love, he thought, this crumbling chapel: It had been complicated, and thereby perfected, by what time had done to it. 3.5 stars. This novel shows us how slow the descent into hell can be - the writing fits it perfectly, there is no dramatics or shouting. The first half of the story drags a bit, although I think it necessary for us to get to know all the characters and their backgrounds, the author could probably have shorten it. I loved that we see that normal life still goes on even i It was like love, he thought, this crumbling chapel: It had been complicated, and thereby perfected, by what time had done to it. 3.5 stars. This novel shows us how slow the descent into hell can be - the writing fits it perfectly, there is no dramatics or shouting. The first half of the story drags a bit, although I think it necessary for us to get to know all the characters and their backgrounds, the author could probably have shorten it. I loved that we see that normal life still goes on even in the worst of times, and you can really see, smell and experience the streets of WWII Budapest through her vivid descriptions. I also loved all the small acts of protests described throughout the book. I never knew that Hungary was a sovereign state and that the Jewish Hungarians were treated so much better than the rest of Europe - if you can describe what happened to them as being treated better. If you enjoy historical fiction, especially WWII, I recommend this book. ...more The Holocaust remains one of history's most unfathomable tragedies: How could something so unthinkable have actually happened in the modern world? How could so many people have stood by as so many others - neighbors, friends, even loved ones - were systematically stripped of their rights, debased, abused, and then deported to concentration camps across eastern Europe, where the machinery of death engineered by the Nazis annihilated them? Even years later, we still grapple with trying to comprehe The Holocaust remains one of history's most unfathomable tragedies: How could something so unthinkable have actually happened in the modern world? How could so many people have stood by as so many others - neighbors, friends, even loved ones - were systematically stripped of their rights, debased, abused, and then deported to concentration camps across eastern Europe, where the machinery of death engineered by the Nazis annihilated them? Even years later, we still grapple with trying to comprehend the insidious discontent that ripened into the 20th century's darkest hour, and many novelists have attempted to elucidate it, as well as depict the plight of those caught in the undercurrent of Hitler's Final Solution. Julie Orringer's masterful THE INVISIBLE BRIDGE doesn't try to elucidate it. The Holocaust simply is: a force of man-made calamity, a mechanized hurricane, that swirls in the distance like an ominous cloud until it sweeps forth to wreak destruction. Instead, in her vast but never cumbersome paean to the forgotten lives of ordinary Hungarian Jews, she weaves an almost deceptively quotidian tale told mostly through the eyes of Andras, a young Hungarian student of threadbare means, whose talent for architecture wins him a scholarship to a prestigious school in Paris and his meeting with fate. A letter he's been entrusted to deliver by a wealthy matron in Budapest leads him into a tangled affair with Klara, a mysterious refugee now teaching ballet in the City of Light. Despite their age difference, Andras becomes besotted by Klara, and their fraught romance blooms even as World War II simmers toward its explosive consequences. The novel centers its heart on these star-crossed lovers, on their secrets and familial turmoils, playing out like a passion saga against the Nazis' murderous advance and wholesale persecution of Europe's Jews. The first parts of the novel, set in Paris, evoke the fragility of uncertain love in times of grave uncertainty; in her struggling lovers, Ms Orringer mirrors the city itself, in love with itself and seemingly oblivious even as it edges toward chaos. Ms Orringer wisely evades the entire political and societal complexity that gave rise to the Third Reich, choosing instead to focus her narrative on innocents trapped by history's jackboots, as they fight to both navigate and survive in a world where their very existence has been deemed meaningless. Yet she bring meaning to the impossible through her characters' flawed humanity, their determination to remain together and salvage whatever they can, and in the process, she sheds remorseless light on a piece of Holocaust history rarely written about - the plight of Hungarian Jews, caught in a country allied to Hitler's Germany but reluctant to deport its citizens. Instead, through enforced conscription into labor regiments for the military, Hungary's male Jews undergo a searing cruelty that can only make us wonder at the depravity that human beings can display against each other. Throughout the novel, which is epic in scope, Andras's transformation from yearning idealist to despairing lover to war-hardened victim grounds what might be an otherwise nearly unbearable read into a lucid, heartrending lamentation for everything that is lost and remembered. The cast of supporting characters is large but so well depicted, we can see these people standing before us; we know them, we have met people like them, and so we suffer, hope, grieve, and rejoice as they do. Toward the crushing yet uplifting finale, which will bring tears to the eyes of all but the most jaded readers, Ms Orringer's delicately woven love story is fragmented by the realities of a blown-apart world. Nevertheless, she never lets us lose sight that in the end, the Holocaust is about us, about the inhumanities inflicted by man upon man. This novel, which has deservedly been widely acclaimed, celebrates the complex tenacity of our human spirit, when the very consolations of faith and permanency have turned to ashes. ...more", "Title": "The Invisible Bridge"},
