{"Comments": "I have rarely read a novel of such intensity. And it touches on so much: the art world as well as art itself,<---M> relationships of many kinds</---M>, family, love, loss, psychology and the outsider, the world that is New York City, personas......much more that I'm forgetting (<---B>or avoiding for spoilers sake</---B>). But then is is titled \"<+++>What I Loved</+++>\" and it lives up to it's title. In addition to being one of the most intense reading experiences, in many ways this has been one of the most unusual. At times I felt I have rarely read a novel of such intensity. And it touches on so much: the art world as well as art itself, relationships of many kinds, family, love, loss, psychology and the outsider, the world that is New York City, personas......much more that I'm forgetting (or avoiding for spoilers sake). But then is is titled \"<+++>What I Loved</+++>\" and it lives up to it's title. In addition to being one of the most intense reading experiences, in many ways this has been one of the most unusual. At times I felt I was reading, not a novel, but a memoir, the actual life story of an aging art historian and university professor looking back on who and what had figured prominently in his life---what he had loved. The story takes place in the art and university worlds of New York City, but it is not necessary,in my opinion, to be a part of them to become engaged in Leo's life and story. His story of finding a work of art he likes, the artist who becomes his true friend; two families whose lives intermingle over decades. The art world is a large part of this story and descriptions of various works of art can occasionally become long, somewhat rambling sidetracks. But these sidetracks always have connections to the central story if you are patient. Hustvedt also portrays the less savory side of the art world but this is once again through those many aspects of \"what I loved.\" And supporting all of the story is masterful prose and excellent timing of presentation. The pacing and control, emotions--everything struck me as perfectly done. Hustvedt had me in the palm of her hand. (Even a section that was a bit over the top was over the top in just the right way.) I'm trying to be careful not to come close to any spoilers in this review which could dampen the emotional impact of this novel for other readers. I definitely recommend this book to anyone who feels a spark of interest in a book set in this world, an arrestingly written look back on a life. As an addendum, I realize that I neglected to say what may (or may not) be obvious. I intend to continue reading the author's works. ...more Beautifully written and a realistic insight into the difficulties of parenthood and relationships. A story with interesting and intelligent character development. I enjoyed watching the characters grow and how the author developed and shaped the characters over a number of years. This really is a study of relationships and how they develop between husbands and wives, family and friends over the course of a number of years and how love, and loss can change the course of friendships. I enjoyed the r Beautifully written and a realistic insight into the difficulties of parenthood and relationships. A story with interesting and intelligent character development. I enjoyed watching the characters grow and how the author developed and shaped the characters over a number of years. This really is a study of relationships and how they develop between husbands and wives, family and friends over the course of a number of years and how love, and loss can change the course of friendships. I enjoyed the read as it is very well written, the plot is dark in places and there twist and turns in the second half of the novel to keep the reader interested.. I didn't however connect with the emotion of the book or feel any real satisfaction with the conclusion of the story.<---F> A 3 *** read for me</---F>. I liked it but didn't love it. ...more What I loved. Take note of the past tense. It evokes painful memories of the past. Things that we used to cherish and treasure that are no longer there. It evokes the feeling of losing something or someone either physically like a dead father or emotionally like an ex-lover. Come to think of it, there seems to me a big blur between physical and emotional losses. A dead father may not be physically present but emotionally, he still resides in our hearts. An ex-lover may still be there physically What I loved. Take note of the past tense. It evokes painful memories of the past. Things that we used to cherish and treasure that are no longer there. It evokes the feeling of losing something or someone either physically like a dead father or emotionally like an ex-lover. Come to think of it, there seems to me a big blur between physical and emotional losses. A dead father may not be physically present but emotionally, he still resides in our hearts. An ex-lover may still be there physically but is regretfully absent even in the small recesses of our hearts. This feeling of losing is what permeates in every page of this book particularly the last two of the three books. Book 1 introduces us to the two families. Family #1 is headed by Leo , the narrator who is a college professor, his writer-wife Erica and his son, Matthew . They live on the ground floor of the house they own. Family #1 has Family #2 renting their house\u2019s upper floor. This family is headed by a painter Bill and his second wife, also a writer, Violet and their son, Mark . The two families become friends because Leo saw and liked one of Bill\u2019s paintings. The story is about how the lives of these 6 characters intersected and got intertwined with each other over a span of a little less than 20 years. Seems like a simple thin plot, right? Answer is yes, it is simple and has been used in other books and movies. However, Hustvedt knows how to make her craft more interesting than those. I must admit that I found Book 1 quite ordinary, maybe because I am not really interested on painting as an art (although I have this big painting, given by my brother, by a famous Filipino painter in the bedroom that I share with my wife). However, when death opens Book 2, there is just no turning back: Hustvedt made sure that surprises after surprises, revelations after revelations pepper the rest of that book and when another death closed it, I could not help but admire her for knowing her craft that is comparable or even better than her husband\u2019s \u2013 Paul Auster. Well, I only read his New York\u2019s Trilogy and Invisible and IMO, in the overall scheme of things, his wife\u2019s What I Loved is a lot better than either of those. Two obvious strengths this novel by Hustvedt are: first, its ability to engage its reader by those series of revelations. It is like riding a rollercoaster inside a darkroom. You don\u2019t know where she is taking you. For example, I thought that either one of the three pairs: two husbands, two wives, two sons, would have a homosexual relationship. Hustvedt made some hints (or maybe it was just me who thought that those were hints) towards this direction but she did not. I also thought that there would be a big revelation that would cap this psychological thriller just like any other thrillers ala-Agatha Christie but Hustvedt opted in ending her emotionally turbulent novel swiftly and quietly that reminded me of Philip Roth\u2019s The Human Stain. The other thing that I liked about this book is Hustvedt\u2019s ability to imprint strong images in her reader\u2019s mind. It will take me sometime to shake off many scenes like Matthew\u2019s death particularly when Leo thought: \u201dhe is Matthew and he is not Matthew\u201d or that scene when Violet was cradling the dead Bill not calling a police yet since she wanted to lay side by side with him. Or Violet wearing Bill\u2019s work clothes or Mark wearing woman\u2019s clothes. I was also able to picture in my mind a couple of paintings that were fully described in the story as if I saw those pictures with my own set of eyes! When I finished reading the book this morning, I checked Hustvedt\u2019s Acknowledgements. Paul Auster\u2019s name was not there. I went back to the first few pages and there, on the very first page, says: To Paul Auster. This tells me that Paul Auster did not help in any way in the writing of this book but she dedicated this to him. Like a love offering: Hustvedt seems to be saying \u201dthis one\u2019s for you, Paul!\u201d . Not sure what her tone is but I am guess that she is proud that she can write as good, if not even better, than her more-famous husband. ...more Superbly written\u2026a very enjoyable novel that left me feeling introspective. The characters were so beautifully portrayed\u2026so authentic that I hated to say goodbye. The narrator is Leo, an art historian who forms a long-lasting friendship with the painter, Bill Wechsler. These two men and their families remain friends for over 25 years. It\u2019s a story filled with passionate love affairs as well as tragic loss, grief and heartbreak. I was so moved by this sometimes sad, sometimes sentimental, yet nev Superbly written\u2026a very enjoyable novel that left me feeling introspective. The characters were so beautifully portrayed\u2026so authentic that I hated to say goodbye. The narrator is Leo, an art historian who forms a long-lasting friendship with the painter, Bill Wechsler. These two men and their families remain friends for over 25 years. It\u2019s a story filled with passionate love affairs as well as tragic loss, grief and heartbreak. I was so moved by this sometimes sad, sometimes sentimental, yet never maudlin book. Leo\u2019s story touched me deeply because his account and his destiny as he aged rang so true to life for me. I never wanted this novel to end. Highly recommended! ...more What I Loved? This book! Intense and engrossing, What I Loved could also be titled What We'll Do for Love or What Love Will Do To Us for it explores the psychology of friendships, intimate and family relationships and the actions people take for the sake of love. But I get ahead of myself . . . This is the story of two friends, their spouses and the son each couple has, told over the last three decades of the 20th century in a reminiscence by one of the friends, Columbia professor and art histori What I Loved? This book! Intense and engrossing, What I Loved could also be titled What We'll Do for Love or What Love Will Do To Us for it explores the psychology of friendships, intimate and family relationships and the actions people take for the sake of love. But I get ahead of myself . . . This is the story of two friends, their spouses and the son each couple has, told over the last three decades of the 20th century in a reminiscence by one of the friends, Columbia professor and art historian, Leo Hertzberg. Looking back toward the end of his career and as his eyesight fails, he tells of how he met the artist Bill Weschler, buying one of his paintings, and how their friendship grew from there, eventually finding them living, with their wives and children, in the same building on Greene Street in NYC. At the human level, we are offered a glimpse into the day-to-day lives of these people, their triumphs and their struggles, and the dynamics of their relationships. Told in three parts, I wondered in the first where this was going, even though I was completely engaged. It reminded me a little of Happy All the Time in its portrayal of the two couples. But at the end of part one, it deepens in the complexity of the life experience of all characters and becomes darker than Colwin's happy book. But in common with Colwin's book, this is a story of place and time, that could only have happened in New York City in the last part of the 1900's. The painting Leo bought hangs in his apartment and is a touchstone for his telling of the story. He also keeps objects, artifacts and photos in his desk drawer - something I would describe as an alter. This drawer is another touchstone that helps advance the story, giving him an opportunity to tell the history of their Jewish families as well as the story of their lives. And what a story of life this is, in all it's complexity. On the macro level, we learn of the experimental art scene in New York at this time; the world of art, artists, dealers and deals in the budding SoHo and Bowery artist enclave; the world of academia, research and book-writing; of love, hate, morality and amorality, life and death. A part of the book I especially loved was about Bill's art, what stimulated his ideas, how he created, the finished art, how it was perceived by critics and the public. I can picture everything he created, brought to life by Hustvedt's particularly lucid writing. I have become a fan of books that are told in the form of reminiscences. This book has in common with Elena Ferrante 's Neopolitan Novels in that the world falls away while I am reading and I am placed in the scenes I'm reading about. More like experiencing the author's story rather than just reading it. This passage about time and life particularly struck me: . . . I could hear the ticking of the clock that hung to the right of the door - a big-faced old school clock with clear black numbers - and I found myself struggling to understand how time can be measured on a disc, a circle with hands that return to the same positions over and over again. That logical revolution looked like a mistake. Time isn't circular, I thought. That's wrong. But the memory didn't let go of me. Through Hustvedt's brilliant writing, we experience both the big and the small moments of these people's lives and histories through those memories that don't let go. Addendum: After reading several reviews with the comments, \"I cried\" and \"I hated for this book to end\", I say Amen! ...more Every story we tell about ourselves can only be told in the past tense. It winds backward from where we now stand, no longer the actors in the story but its spectators who have chosen to speak. The trail behind us is sometimes marked by stones like the ones Hansel first left behind him. Other times the path is gone, because the birds flew down and ate up all the crumbs at sunrise. Equal parts memoir, novel of ideas, and psychological thriller, the story opens in 1975 and spans 25 years of frien Every story we tell about ourselves can only be told in the past tense. It winds backward from where we now stand, no longer the actors in the story but its spectators who have chosen to speak. The trail behind us is sometimes marked by stones like the ones Hansel first left behind him. Other times the path is gone, because the birds flew down and ate up all the crumbs at sunrise. Equal parts memoir, novel of ideas, and psychological thriller, the story opens in 1975 and spans 25 years of friendship between two artsy and academic Manhattan families. The relationships commence when narrator and art historian, Leo, meets Bill, a painter whose work fascinates. The first third of the book involves much character exposition and ruminating about art and artists, some of which I briefly snoozed or skimmed through. An unexpected death opens the next third and woke me right up. The last third I could not put down, and I was occasionally so creeped out that I began questioning what I think I know about those I love most. It\u2019s not spoiling anything to say there\u2019s a murder. Oddly on a night when I stayed up very late reading about it, my husband was dreaming about a serial killer working his way through our family. He, my husband, looked awful at breakfast, worn out. When I asked what was wrong he said, \u201cI just had the worst dream I\u2019ve ever had in my life.\u201d The worst part being all the screaming of those he could hear dying but could not get to. And I said, \"Who was the killer?\u201d And he said, \u201cSomeone we knew.\u201d And I said, \u201cWho?\u201d And he said, \u201cI don't know, but I knew it was someone we knew, and I was going crazy trying to find out.\u201d The scenario being even more dreadful when, like Leo the narrator, you suspect that the killer is a family member. To avoid spoilers, I'll leave out the names. I knew that by some definition both --- and --- were insane, examples of an indifference many regard as monstrous and unnatural; but in fact they weren\u2019t unique and their actions were recognizably human. Equating horror with the inhuman has always struck me as convenient but fallacious, if only because I was born into a century that should have ended such talk for good. For me, the lamp became the sign not of the inhuman but of the all-too-human, the lapse or break that occurs in people when empathy is gone, when others aren\u2019t a part of us anymore but are turned into things. There is genuine irony in the fact that my empathy for --- vanished at the moment when I understood that he had not a shred of that quality in himself. This book is all about empathy -- its variations and qualities and how they make all the difference in all kinds of relationships. The more I read the more I appreciated and enjoyed Hustvedt\u2019s talent for deftly navigating the complexities, from the routine to the catastrophic, with what proved to be an irresistible mix of nuance and drama. Yes, I briefly snoozed, but she more than made up for that by seducing and startling and occasionally moving me to tears, such that I'm granting 5 stars. As soon as I opened the volume (of da Vinci drawings) the letters spilled out. I read and rested, read and rested, nearly panting from the strain but hungry for the next word . . . Do you remember when you told me I had beautiful knees? I never liked my knees. In fact, I thought they were ugly. But your eyes have rehabilitated them. Whether I see you again or not, I\u2019m going to live out my life with these two beautiful knees. The letters were full of little thoughts like that one, but she also wrote: It\u2019s important now to tell you that I love you. I held back because I was a coward. But I\u2019m yelling it now. And even if I lose you, I\u2019ll always say to myself \u2013 I had that. I had him, and it was delirious and sacred and sweet. And if you let me, I\u2019ll always dote on your whole odd, savage, painting self. Ultimately it is our salvation, that kind of finding and seeing and declaring and doting. By such gestures we redeem each other. The letters are among the talismans, icons, incantations that over time become Leo's shields of meaning and muses of memory without which, he intimately tells us, there\u2019s no surviving when the game flirts with terror and moves me so close to the edge that I have a sensation of falling . . . and in the speed of the fall lose myself in something formless but deafening . . . like entering a scream, being a scream. ...more I never learn. This book had been knocking around the house for a while, but I hadn't really been interested in reading it, due to a combination of factors but primarily because a) the cover didn't interest me and b) one of the most prominent quotes on the jacket describes it as 'a love story'. As I've said before, while I always appreciate well-written relationships/romances in books, defining something purely as a love story is pretty much a surefire way to put me off. So it was for no particu I never learn. This book had been knocking around the house for a while, but I hadn't really been interested in reading it, due to a combination of factors but primarily because a) the cover didn't interest me and b) one of the most prominent quotes on the jacket describes it as 'a love story'. As I've said before, while I always appreciate well-written relationships/romances in books, defining something purely as a love story is pretty much a surefire way to put me off. So it was for no particular reason - out of boredom, really - that I eventually picked this up. What a fantastic decision that was; this book is, and I do not say this lightly, ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. It is a love story, but to describe it that way is to do it a huge disservice - there are at least four love stories in here, and one of them is a friendship. And it's just as much a book about art (and how we perceive it), madness, parenthood, loss and grief, truth and lies. It follows the lifelong friendship between Leo, a writer (and the narrator of this story), and Bill, an artist, and their relationships with their wives (Erica and Lucille, and later Violet) and children (Matthew and Mark). Later, the story becomes focused around devastating loss and its aftermath, and still later it concentrates on the teenage Mark, his disturbing behaviour and dangerous association with a controversial artist, Teddy Giles. The narrative is filled with evocative descriptions of Bill's artwork, Leo's divergences into the significance of art and personal interpretation, the characters' fascinating, meandering conversations; there is much more to it than simply the plot itself, complex and intriguing though that is in its own right. I don't really know what to say about What I Loved to effectively express how I felt about it. Although what happens is interesting, it's the quality of the writing that really makes it what it is. Hustvedt brilliantly relates a whole spectrum of emotions and makes you feel and suffer along with her characters. The atmosphere is fantastic, with a thread of suspense running throughout the novel, which intensifies in the last few chapters as the plot builds to a dramatic climax. The Teddy Giles character became so menacing to me that I felt genuinely frightened and couldn't get to sleep after the final revelations. This is just one example of how much this book gets inside your head - I still can't stop thinking about it. It's also tremendously inspiring, and apart from The Secret History , I don't think I've ever come across anything that's made me want to get out a notebook and furiously WRITE quite as much as this did. It's beautifully, sumptuously written and vastly intelligent. I've been trying for days to write a review of this book that actually does it justice, and I've found it impossible. The above definitely doesn't cover it adequately, but I don't think I'm going to come up with anything better, so there you have it. In a nutshell: it is wonderful; I will read it again; you should read it too. ...more I love Paul Auster. Having discovered him through the joys of the 1001 books list, I've now read almost everything he ever wrote and just when I was getting to the end of his stuff and wondering how I could get my hands on more Paul Auster stuff (short of holding a gun to his head and forcing him to write faster), along comes the literary off-shoot of Auster that is <---A>Siri Hustvedt</---A>. What!? I hear you yell in supportive indignation for Mrs Auster and her right to be recognised as a successful and t I love Paul Auster. Having discovered him through the joys of the 1001 books list, I've now read almost everything he ever wrote and just when I was getting to the end of his stuff and wondering how I could get my hands on more Paul Auster stuff (short of holding a gun to his head and forcing him to write faster), along comes the literary off-shoot of Auster that is Siri Hustvedt. What!? I hear you yell in supportive indignation for Mrs Auster and her right to be recognised as a successful and talented author (who is not and should not in anyway be perceived as being in the shadow of her husband)... oh come on you've got to admit the similarities in style, references and imagery are pretty close. Jewish male narrator? Tick. Based in NYC. Tick. Artsy and creative writer types? Tick. Even allusions to the same artists ( see William de Kooning in Oracle Night). Yes, I appreciate as husband and wife they will in many ways be exposed to the same social situations, stimuli and inspiration and I'm not criticising. I really loved this book. The best elements were the real sense of impending danger whenever the story line turned to Mark and Teddy. I really felt like Leo was in danger and felt a little bit worried for him. Beyond the day to day storyline, Goya was the real star of this book whether he was meant to be or not. Everyone in the book has a little bit of Goya in him. A little bit creative, a bit wild, a bit restrained and a little bit bloodthirsty and destructive. Was this book really a story about Goya but in some sort of hidden code? Whatever. After reading this book I decided to refresh my memory on Goya's work and yes, he was clearly mad as a box of frogs but that doesn't stop him being brilliant at the same time. ...more Because I've been engaged in a book club with three others--one who likes fiction, one who likes it with reservations, and a third who views it with trepidation--I've been thinking about why I like fiction so much. Modern fiction, classic fiction, whatever--what always draws me is the way human nature is portrayed. What does it mean to be human? Is it sad, broken, lonely, joyful, complicated? Yes. This book is, for me, the dream of fiction, in that it tells us a story, and transports us, while at Because I've been engaged in a book club with three others--one who likes fiction, one who likes it with reservations, and a third who views it with trepidation--I've been thinking about why I like fiction so much. Modern fiction, classic fiction, whatever--what always draws me is the way human nature is portrayed. What does it mean to be human? Is it sad, broken, lonely, joyful, complicated? Yes. This book is, for me, the dream of fiction, in that it tells us a story, and transports us, while at the same time tells us something about ourselves and our kind. The protagonists talk about friendship, loss, lust, grief, regret, art, and lies; they are betrayed and left behind and injured just as they are loved and buoyed and nurtured. They are beautiful and imperfect. On every page I found something to love, something tender, bold, or poignant. I won't bother giving you a synopsis, because you can get that nearly everywhere else. What I will give you is my heartfelt recommendation. Siri Hustvedt places each word, each sentence, with the deliberate deftness of someone who understands the gorgeous twisting combined pain and pleasure of being alive. ...more This 2003 novel could just as well have been titled \u201cWhat I Lost,\u201d which might be truer to its elegiac tone. Narrated by Professor Leo Hertzberg and set between the 1970s and 1990s, it\u2019s about two New York City couples \u2013 academics and artists \u2013 and the losses they suffer over the years. With themes of modern art, perspective, memory, separation and varieties of mental illness, it asks to what extent we can ever know other people or use replacements to fill the gaps left by who and what is missin This 2003 novel could just as well have been titled \u201cWhat I Lost,\u201d which might be truer to its elegiac tone. Narrated by Professor Leo Hertzberg and set between the 1970s and 1990s, it\u2019s about two New York City couples \u2013 academics and artists \u2013 and the losses they suffer over the years. With themes of modern art, perspective, memory, separation and varieties of mental illness, it asks to what extent we can ever know other people or use replacements to fill the gaps left by who and what is missing. Read it if you\u2019ve enjoyed The Suicide of Claire Bishop by Carmiel Banasky, other books by Siri Hustvedt, or anything by Howard Norman. My favorite lines about love were \u201cI often thought of our marriage as one long conversation\u201d and \u201clove thrives on a certain kind of distance \u2026 it requires an awed separateness to continue.\u201d Reviewed with five other \u201clove\u201d titles for a Valentine\u2019s-themed post on my blog, Bookish Beck . ...more I consider this book to be truly wonderful. My fellow London commuters clearly thought I was crazy as I cried over passages on a number of trains. I think the past tense in the title succinctly communicates the loss dealt with by Hustvedt. I didn't initially like the descriptions of the art installations, and had difficulty visualising them. As I progressed through the novel I began to enjoy them more. This is a tremendous book, and I was sorry that it had to end. I would appreciate a sequel, because Hustvedt has given so much intricacy to her characters; it would be wonderful to find out what happens to them. She mixes art, both modern and classical, into a novel with rich themes such as art's immortal quality juxtaposed with our mortal inevitability. (Her immense knowledge is not boastful like Byatt's, though.) She examines the many facets of love, unrequited love being the most painfully su This is a tremendous book, and I was sorry that it had to end. I would appreciate a sequel, because Hustvedt has given so much intricacy to her characters; it would be wonderful to find out what happens to them. She mixes art, both modern and classical, into a novel with rich themes such as art's immortal quality juxtaposed with our mortal inevitability. (Her immense knowledge is not boastful like Byatt's, though.) She examines the many facets of love, unrequited love being the most painfully sublime. Her characters love deeply, palpably. The Jewish holocaust lurks in the background, all of those needless deaths, and it is echoed in similar ways in the events here. This book reminded me of the books of Emile Zola, of Isaac Bashevis Singer, and of Henry James, all great masters in my mind, but updated to the present by Hustvedt's book. The inevitable tragedies in this book are honest, not at all contrived, part of the way life really happens. But the way she examines the tragedies makes this not only a novel about art but more so, it makes it a novel that is itself a work of art. Now, please excuse me while I go find her other novels and eagerly await the one that is in press for release in 2008. ...more The second half of What I Loved might have made an enjoyably-erudite \u2018thinking man\u2019s\u2019 thriller set in the art world of the \u201880s and \u201890s, but the meandering first half \u2013 about affluent Manhattanites and their dull, pretentious lives \u2013 makes the book, as a whole, perhaps admirable , but hard to like . One often comes across perfectly entertaining novels that seem to have trouble getting started. Instead of plunging their reader straight into the action, they begin with ten pages of backstory. What I The second half of What I Loved might have made an enjoyably-erudite \u2018thinking man\u2019s\u2019 thriller set in the art world of the \u201880s and \u201890s, but the meandering first half \u2013 about affluent Manhattanites and their dull, pretentious lives \u2013 makes the book, as a whole, perhaps admirable , but hard to like . One often comes across perfectly entertaining novels that seem to have trouble getting started. Instead of plunging their reader straight into the action, they begin with ten pages of backstory. What I Loved reads like this, but it begins with two hundred pages of backstory. We get every minutia of the central characters\u2019 lives over a ten-year period and absolutely no narrative to get invested in. Oh, I\u2019m sure if you asked Siri Hustvedt about it, she\u2019d claim that she was writing about \u2018life\u2019. Well, sorry, but novels are not life; they\u2019re artificial constructions designed to entertain. I need my characters to have goals; I need them to strive and grow and not just fester in their beautiful Manhattan loft. (Did it bother me that everyone in this novel is soaked in rich white privilege? Yeah, a bit.) Don\u2019t get me wrong, the quality of Hustvedt\u2019s prose is astonishing. What I Loved is filled with wholly-believable details. The sections of the novel that revolve around artwork and artists are clearly well-researched, and Hustvedt extracts beautiful and affecting symbols from the art that surrounds her characters. Hustvedt comes across as someone highly interested in the human condition. Unfortunately, she chooses to probe her characters as if they were sliced up and put beneath a telescope. There\u2019s little warmth in her characterization; she seems so intent on capturing her characters\u2019 neuroses in fine detail that she forgets to make them compelling or likeable. The artwork that the protagonist directly engages with might be memorable and affecting, but the long descriptions of artwork that only tangentially relate to the plot become boring and repetitive. Reading a description of paintings you can\u2019t see is a bit like hearing someone describe their favourite song \u2013 an ultimately empty experience. Oh, I\u2019m sure academics can handwave every \u2018flaw\u2019 I see in this novel, with comments like \u2018it\u2019s a book of ideas\u2019 or \u2018it\u2019s not constrained by the Western style of plotting\u2019, but if I find myself bored and dissatisfied by your novel, I think you\u2019re doing something wrong. ...more ... Pero todos vivimos aqu\u00ed, pens\u00e9 para mis adentros, en esas historias imaginarias que nos relatamos sobre nuestras vidas. Escribir es un modo de localizar mi hambre. Y el hambre no es sino un vac\u00edo. ... Leo Hertzberg, el observador que atisba a trav\u00e9s del agujero de su propia vida, reordena una y otra vez los preciosos objetos que atesora en un caj\u00f3n, frutos y huellas de una existencia que se le escapa entre los dedos, tratando de conjugar a trav\u00e9s del lenguaje el torrente de la memoria que los ... Pero todos vivimos aqu\u00ed, pens\u00e9 para mis adentros, en esas historias imaginarias que nos relatamos sobre nuestras vidas. Escribir es un modo de localizar mi hambre. Y el hambre no es sino un vac\u00edo. ... Leo Hertzberg, el observador que atisba a trav\u00e9s del agujero de su propia vida, reordena una y otra vez los preciosos objetos que atesora en un caj\u00f3n, frutos y huellas de una existencia que se le escapa entre los dedos, tratando de conjugar a trav\u00e9s del lenguaje el torrente de la memoria que los acompa\u00f1a. Porque el que recuerda renuncia a la verdad: \u2018ya no somos actores de la historia sino espectadores que se han decidido a hablar.\u2019 El tiempo no es circular, tampoco transita en l\u00ednea recta; deambula errante entre espejos rotos y fr\u00e1giles cofres de cristal. Consciente de esta originaria e irremediable transgresi\u00f3n de las perspectivas, Leo Hertzberg cuenta\u2026 Una conmovedora reflexi\u00f3n sobre el arte, sobre la complejidad de las relaciones humanas, sobre el paso del tiempo. ...more Wow, I loved this. There is so much depth and truth in this. I love when stories introduce me to problems, thoughts, concepts that I hadn't been familiar with before. It's not one of those books that will leave you overall satisfied and happy. It is real life with all the ups and downs that come with it. The setting in the New York art scene, the character's professions or the point in life they were at (we follow them from dating to marriage to having children to whatever comes after) wasn't so Wow, I loved this. There is so much depth and truth in this. I love when stories introduce me to problems, thoughts, concepts that I hadn't been familiar with before. It's not one of those books that will leave you overall satisfied and happy. It is real life with all the ups and downs that come with it. The setting in the New York art scene, the character's professions or the point in life they were at (we follow them from dating to marriage to having children to whatever comes after) wasn't something I could relate to, I felt very close to them. The characters were amazingly portrayed and always felt like complex, real human beings. Imagine peaking through a window for however many pages this has. The book was captivating, emotional, haunting, mysterious and more. I always know I love a book when I want to re-read it immediately. I feel like doing that this very moment. ...more Siri Hustvedt (n. 1955) 5 Estrelas liter\u00e1rias \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d (2003) \u00e9 um romance escrito pela norte-americana, de ascend\u00eancia norueguesa, Siri Hustvedt (n. 1955) dedicado a Paul Auster ; o premiado escritor norte-americano, casado com Siri Hustvedt desde 1982, e que antes contra\u00edra matrim\u00f3nio com a tamb\u00e9m escritora Lydia Davis . Siri Hustvedt divide \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d em tr\u00eas partes, perfeitamente individualizadas no espa\u00e7o e no tempo, e que se inicia por volta de 1975, na zona do Soho, M Siri Hustvedt (n. 1955) 5 Estrelas liter\u00e1rias \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d (2003) \u00e9 um romance escrito pela norte-americana, de ascend\u00eancia norueguesa, Siri Hustvedt (n. 1955) dedicado a Paul Auster ; o premiado escritor norte-americano, casado com Siri Hustvedt desde 1982, e que antes contra\u00edra matrim\u00f3nio com a tamb\u00e9m escritora Lydia Davis . Siri Hustvedt divide \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d em tr\u00eas partes, perfeitamente individualizadas no espa\u00e7o e no tempo, e que se inicia por volta de 1975, na zona do Soho, Manhattan, Nova Iorque, centrada numa pequena \u201ccomunidade\u201d art\u00edstica, ligada \u00e0 pintura, \u00e0 escultura e \u00e0 literatura, terminando cerca de vinte e cinco anos mais tarde. Leo Hertzberg, o narrador, \u00e9 um intelectual judeu, professor de hist\u00f3ria da arte na Universidade de Columbia, escritor e ensa\u00edsta, que se apaixona por um quadro, uma pintura de uma mulher, que decide comprar, pintado pelo desconhecido artista Bill Wechsler \u2013 nascendo entre os dois uma \u201cirrevog\u00e1vel amizade\u201d. Bill Wechsler, \u00e9 casado com Lucille, uma poeta inst\u00e1vel e neur\u00f3tica; Leo Hertzberg \u00e9 casado com Erica, uma acad\u00e9mica e investigadora, tranquila e serena; uma liga\u00e7\u00e3o e uma amizade que se consolida, com o nascimento quase em simult\u00e2neo dos filhos dos dois casais, Mark e Matthew; e eis que surge Violet, uma \u201cmodelo\u201d art\u00edstica, investigadora na \u00e1rea da histeria, e musa inspiradora para Bill. A narrativa de \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d pode ser subdividida em quatro \u201ctemas/hist\u00f3rias\u201d, todas interligadas entre si: uma primeira, sobre a tem\u00e1tica da arte contempor\u00e2nea e da literatura , em que se reflecte e analisa o processo criativo e o sentido est\u00e9tico das diferentes formas de arte, a influ\u00eancia e os crit\u00e9rios subjectivos da cr\u00edtica e dos cr\u00edticos e o processo de comercializa\u00e7\u00e3o, \u201cA arte \u00e9 misteriosa, mas vender arte talvez seja ainda mais misterioso.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 102); uma segunda, sobre a fam\u00edlia , rela\u00e7\u00f5es e relacionamentos complexos entre pais e filhos, v\u00ednculos e amizades entre fam\u00edlias, conflitos geracionais, o perd\u00e3o e a trai\u00e7\u00e3o, a nega\u00e7\u00e3o e as mentiras; uma terceira, sobre o amor e a perda , rela\u00e7\u00f5es afectuosas, tri\u00e2ngulos amorosos, acontecimentos dram\u00e1ticos, trag\u00e9dias inexplic\u00e1veis, diferentes \u201ctempos\u201d para fazer o \u201cluto\u201d, a dor, psicologicamente esmagadora e intensa; e uma quarta, um thriller psicol\u00f3gico intenso e demolidor nas convic\u00e7\u00f5es e nas mentiras, a confian\u00e7a que se quebra, as trai\u00e7\u00f5es que se perpetuam, com Mark, o filho de Bill e Lucille, e o jovem artista e performer Teddy Giles, pol\u00e9mico, radical e violento, numa celebra\u00e7\u00e3o art\u00edstica brutal e cruel, dominada pela selvajaria e pela hostilidade, numa f\u00faria inflamada, que tornam a parte final de \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d num verdadeiro \u201cpage-turner\u201d. \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d evoca diferentes sentimentos e diferentes interpreta\u00e7\u00f5es, num prel\u00fadio para profusas reflex\u00f5es, numa ambiciosa partilha entre a \u201chist\u00f3ria\u201d e a leitura \u201cindividual\u201d \u2013 mas h\u00e1 um \u201cs\u00edmbolo\u201d que gostaria de individualizar: a gaveta de Leo \u2013 uma pequena gaveta na sua secret\u00e1ria, onde vai acumulando \u201cobjectos\u201d do seu passado, \u201dAquele era um local onde eu conservava tudo aquilo cuja falta sentia. N\u00e3o obstante um \u00f3bvio lado m\u00f3rbido, a verdade \u00e9 que eu n\u00e3o usava a gaveta para chorar a minha sorte ou para outra qualquer tend\u00eancia para a autocomisera\u00e7\u00e3o\u2026 A minha gaveta era, sem sombra de d\u00favida, um sedativo eficaz.\" (P\u00e1g. 265-266) A escrita de Siri Hustvedt \u00e9 elegante, com um humor subtil, repleta de refer\u00eancias \u00e0 psicologia, \u00e0 psican\u00e1lise, a diferentes psicopatias, \u00e0s artes, com in\u00fameras especula\u00e7\u00f5es ambivalentes sobre a aus\u00eancia e a amizade, descri\u00e7\u00f5es dram\u00e1ticas e dolorosas, numa narrativa que \u00e0 medida que vamos avan\u00e7ando, surge-nos um crescente sentimento de mau press\u00e1gio que vai inundando a prosa, sempre marcada pela conten\u00e7\u00e3o e pela indulg\u00eancia. \u201dAquilo Que Eu Amava\u201d \u00e9 uma excelente obra liter\u00e1ria\u2026 Leo sobre a Verdade: \u201dReconheci que a verdade \u00e9 muitas vezes algo de confuso e indistinto, um emaranhado de acidentes e equ\u00edvocos que convergem para dar uma impress\u00e3o de inverosimilhan\u00e7a\u2026\u201d (p\u00e1g. 253) \u201dAs mentiras s\u00e3o sempre duplas: aquilo que dizemos coexiste com o que n\u00e3o dizemos, mas poder\u00edamos ter dito. Quando paramos de mentir, o abismo entre as nossas palavras e as nossas convic\u00e7\u00f5es \u00edntimas fecha-se, e, ent\u00e3o enveredamos por uma via em que tentamos adequar as palavras que dizemos \u00e0 linguagem dos nossos pensamentos, ou, pelo menos daqueles pensamentos que consideramos apropriados para consumo alheio.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 302 \u2013 303) \u201dA efemeridade era um elemento essencial do seu encanto.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 332) \u201cTodas as hist\u00f3rias verdadeiras t\u00eam v\u00e1rios fins poss\u00edveis.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 504) ...more This is a book, like most amazing books, which is about how exhausting and glorious and terrible it is to live. Especially if you are the one who lives. A new favorite. I soak in her prose, whether I planned to or not. More soon. Leo Hertzberg seeks out Bill Wechsler after he buys one of his paintings, starting a lifelong friendship between the two men. The lives of their two families become entangled in this story about relationships, love, and loss. Leo, an art historian, is the narrator looking back on the last twenty-five years in a book divided into three sections. The first part sets us in the New York City world of artists, academics, and intellectuals. There are beautiful, detailed descriptions of Bill's art and V Leo Hertzberg seeks out Bill Wechsler after he buys one of his paintings, starting a lifelong friendship between the two men. The lives of their two families become entangled in this story about relationships, love, and loss. Leo, an art historian, is the narrator looking back on the last twenty-five years in a book divided into three sections. The first part sets us in the New York City world of artists, academics, and intellectuals. There are beautiful, detailed descriptions of Bill's art and Violet's research on hysteria and eating disorders. The two families live in the same building, and their young sons, Matthew and Mark, become friends. Part two begins and ends with tragedies. Some relationships struggle to survive because grief overwhelms the people. Friends offer needed emotional support. The Wechslers' son Mark is a troubled boy, an unrepentant liar with surface charm. He falls under the spell of an installation artist, Teddy Giles, who creates art about sadistic violence. The third section of the book changes its tone into a psychological thriller as Leo and Violet try to save Mark from being completely drawn into Teddy Giles' world. It was fast-paced and exciting, although a multi-city trip to the Midwest seemed a little over the top. As the title suggests, the older Leo has told us what he had loved--friends, family, art, and intellectual ideas. The journey was sometimes heartbreaking, but always complex and fascinating. ...more The writing was rich and very compelling. It's been a long time since I've thought about characters when I wasn't reading about them. The bits about art, perception and time that were thrown in as the characters developed and progressed through the plot were moving too. The story is divided into three parts. I was drawn into the first two parts completely. The third part I resented on some level. Thinking about it now, it's the mark of a well written and executed story because I realize my resen The writing was rich and very compelling. It's been a long time since I've thought about characters when I wasn't reading about them. The bits about art, perception and time that were thrown in as the characters developed and progressed through the plot were moving too. The story is divided into three parts. I was drawn into the first two parts completely. The third part I resented on some level. Thinking about it now, it's the mark of a well written and executed story because I realize my resentment was in defense of the characters. I didn't want what happened to happen to them. As in our own life story, we want things to be neat, happy and above all fair, especially after intense loss and frightening events. But it isn't, no matter how hard we try or how much we love. Still, loving is all one can do. This novel contained all of that and much more to consider. I'm glad I was unfamiliar with this author (and her husband or any other background details) before I read this book. It helped to be naive and take the story on it's own. I look forward to more by this author. ...more Among other things, Siri Hustvedt questions in this book the concept of contemporary art. Evidently a connoisseur and an admirer, I think she wants to highlight through her imaginary world that there is a difference between real art and what people take for art nowadays: Teddy Giles, \u201ca wanna-be artist\u201d whose portrait is insisted upon in the second half of the book, bases all his projects on people\u2019s reactions to violence and to matters that are only meant to shock, rather than have an artistic Among other things, Siri Hustvedt questions in this book the concept of contemporary art. Evidently a connoisseur and an admirer, I think she wants to highlight through her imaginary world that there is a difference between real art and what people take for art nowadays: Teddy Giles, \u201ca wanna-be artist\u201d whose portrait is insisted upon in the second half of the book, bases all his projects on people\u2019s reactions to violence and to matters that are only meant to shock, rather than have an artistic value. So, the question would be: is it ethical that violence could be used for artistic effects and why don\u2019t people draw a line between art and violence? Bill, however, whom we see through Leo's eyes, our narrator in this book, is a real artist. In his art, \u201cnothing is clear. Feelings, ideas shape what\u2019s in front of us\u201d, he says. In his work, he wants to create doubt \u201cbecause that\u2019s what we\u2019re sure of\u201d. And he does so exquisitely. His first collection of paintings is the element which creates a most powerful liaison between him and Leo, the first buyer of his art, the first person who really acknowledges his talent before everyone else does. Leo is a professional critic of art and the person who is able to render most hidden meanings to Bill\u2019s works of art. In this first collection of paintings, Bill uses Violet, his soon to-be second wife, as a model. The painting which Leo buys is a very eloquent metaphor, like the rest of Bill\u2019s art. It\u2019s called Self Portrait although the painter is a male and the model is a woman. What\u2019s really interesting about it is the fact that the viewer can discover himself in in the big shadow depicted in first plan in this painting, fact which suggests that not only the painter can contribute to a work of art, but also the admirer (which is actually true: it's our perspective that matters, the way we see things, rather than how they really are). All Bill\u2019s paintings are full of hidden meanings: they are all trying to tell stories. I remember that at one point he deliberately paints a bruise on the character from one of his paintings and afterwards, when Leo asks him about it, he explains that seeing a bruise there tells a story, the story of how the bruise got there in the first place: was it through violence or maybe because of a random \u201eencounter\u201d with the furniture in one\u2019s room? The viewer cannot know the reason, but he can ask himself how it got there and doubt is therefore created again. Going through the book, we immerse ourselves completely in the stories and the everyday life of the characters: Leo and Erica and their son Matt; Bill and Lucille and then Bill and Violet and Mark. The author analyses their lives, the lives of their parents and siblings indicating the effect of the past and of the present on Bill\u2019s works of art, on Leo\u2019s life and on the development of their friendship. Hustvedt plays with the idea that \u201ewe\u2019re always mixing with other people\u201d. Mixing is a key term which explains \u201ewhat people rarely talk about, because we define ourselves as isolated, closed bodies who bump up against each other but stay shut. Descartes was wrong. It isn't: I think therefore I am. It\u2019s: I am because you are. That\u2019s Hegel \u2013 well, the short version.\u201d. \u201eWhat matters is that we\u2019re always mixing with other people.\u201d, says Violet who feels that Lucille, Mark\u2019s mum, is there, and every time she spends time with him, she interferes tacitly in everything she does with him and she\u2019s never, not for one moment, leaving them. The atmosphere surrounding Bill seems to adopt his state of mind and all Bill\u2019s happiness and sadness, his experiences transpire through his work: \u201eThe studio had an oppressive, nearly smothering atmosphere, as if Bill\u2019s sadness has leaked into the chairs, the books, the toys, and the empty wine bottles that piled up under the sink. In the paintings of his father, Bill\u2019s sorrow took on a palpable beauty that was executed with rigorous, unflinching hand, but in life his pain was merely depressing.\u201d Bill\u2019s secret dream is to have many, many children, to populate Earth with his children. Violet cannot give him children but the Universe seems to be mocking him: his only child, Mark has so many personalities that having him as a son is like having lots of children, each of his personalities accounting for one. This review is definitely not going to make much sense to a person who hasn't read the book. I wanted to write a review for this book for so long and since I haven\u2019t managed to do so immediately after finishing the book because of the lack of time, I cannot seem to be able to put my ideas in order and write in a more systematic fashion. I would say however that what I tried to do was putting the most intriguing aspects of the book like random colors on a canvas and commenting on them like critics of art do with their paintings, like Leo does in this book with his comments on \u201ewhat he loved\u201d. And to quote Hustvedt further, \u201edespite these momentary insights into a life, the canvases and their materials had an abstract quality to them, an ultimate blankness that conveyed the strangeness of mortality itself, a sense that even if every scrap of a life were saved, thrown into a giant mound and then carefully sifted to extract all possible meaning, it would not add up to a life.\u201d (in this case, no matter how complete my review would be, it wouldn't make justice to such a finely crafted book as this one, \u201eit would not add up to this book\u201d). ...more It doesn\u2019t often happen, but this book really hit an emotional chord with me; days after I put it down it kept on haunting me. The story itself is about a mix of family situations, relationship problems, moments of hapiness and despair, but also death and psychosis, and at a certain point it even evolves into an outright horror story. That sounds a bit trite but Hustvedts characters are people of flesh and blood, with big and small yearnings, very own psychological mindsets, uncertainties and wr It doesn\u2019t often happen, but this book really hit an emotional chord with me; days after I put it down it kept on haunting me. The story itself is about a mix of family situations, relationship problems, moments of hapiness and despair, but also death and psychosis, and at a certain point it even evolves into an outright horror story. That sounds a bit trite but Hustvedts characters are people of flesh and blood, with big and small yearnings, very own psychological mindsets, uncertainties and wrong assumptions, and with very divers reactions on tragic events. They go through endearing, tender moments, but also through absolutely horrible experiences. The emotional load sometimes is so raw and realistic that the reading gets on the verge of the bearable (at one point it reminded me of Elena Ferrante). Hustvedt has set her story in the art scene of Soho-New York in the 80s and 90s, a very curious world that she apparently knows well and with which she settles some scores. Occasionally this results in rather heavy, indigestible elaborations on modern art, but in a sense that is functional: just as interpretations of art always are rather individual and provisionally, estimating the behavior of other people is at least as tricky. Because that's pretty much the key to this work: it describes how impotent we are, how little grip we have on our lives, and even how bad we (can) know the people who stand closest to us. Hustvedts first great novel certainly is not perfect: there are the stodgy fragments on art, some story lines are too abruptly broken off, and the horror story dominates the third part of the novel just a little too much, especially because it breaks off suddenly, passing in a rather faint epilogue. Nevertheless: Hustvedt has made a great impression on me. This is an intelligent and complex novel about life in his endearing and his hideous nakedness. ...more I still love The Blazing World more, though it's hard to separate the book itself from that feeling of pleasurable surprise when you discover a new author, a really good one, and think, now this person's books are waiting for me. Also I think I just know Harry in a way that I don't necessarily already know Leo. Almost like clicking with a real person. This was nonetheless a fine read, one which leaves me with thoughts connected to one another by theme rather than any kind of real summary or revi I still love The Blazing World more, though it's hard to separate the book itself from that feeling of pleasurable surprise when you discover a new author, a really good one, and think, now this person's books are waiting for me. Also I think I just know Harry in a way that I don't necessarily already know Leo. Almost like clicking with a real person. This was nonetheless a fine read, one which leaves me with thoughts connected to one another by theme rather than any kind of real summary or review. Thought the first is that I like the intellectual quality in Hustvedt's writing. She manages to thread some kind of literary needle--serious and engaged with ideas, including abstract and theoretical ideas, but not cold or detached, and also not veering away from whatever it means to be properly a novel in engaging with them. It's nice, for me, it's nice to read something that moves in ethical and philosophical questions that go beyond the facile identity categories and glib analyses that appear to me, more and more, to be everywhere (query: genuine trend or me, aging, warning the damn kids off my lawn, crankier every year? A question Hustvedt might one day put into a book). Yet this is not a treatise, nor even the kind of novel that subverts novel-y-ness: it's got a plot, characters, stuff happens, even shocking stuff, you read to find out what happens and yet, at the same time, it doesn't rely on you reading to find out what happens, or not that alone. I wish more writers could hit this sweet spot for me. Though perhaps I shouldn't complain: two great new authors for me in one year is verging on spoiled (Hustvedt, obviously, is one, and the other is Percival Everett, run out and read Erasure right now if you haven't already, it's crazy that you've waited this long.) Thought the second is that I think I maybe like these books about other books and about works of art better than, say, the Blindfold, which really didn't get into that so much. I think this is related to thought one, at the level of technique. Somehow writing about art, and about artists, and about intellectuals, writers, scholars, somehow this allows Hustvedt to get into and even summarize some theoretical concerns without herself becoming a tiresome lecturing hectoring oversimplifying over generalizing bore. I think it also brings concreteness to certain kinds of questions. Here, for example, I appreciate exactly the distinction she is getting at with Giles and his pet critic between engaging with the cultural stuff around you because you genuinely want to figure it out, and cashing in on that same cultural stuff to make a glib statement and a quick buck. This is a thing, but she doesn't write a book of theory that says it's a thing, she writes a novel that shows it's a thing, a thing and then some, as it connects to everything else. Thought the third is about Mark, and this is a spoiler, so if you're the kind of reader for whom a book is spoiled by knowing what happens, you may want to look away, though I think, personally, that you're wrong about how a great novel actually works. Though actually maybe not, since I talk in like two more sentences about a growing fear curve, a gradual unveiling experience of the novel. Maybe it doesn't ruin a great book except for when it does, spoiling the plot? But I digress. Mark. Mark frightened me, gradually, more and more, much as he gradually more and more frightened Leo. I felt slightly ahead of Leo on the fear curve, though somewhat behind Violet. And this fear is interesting, distinct from crime fiction and horror because it's not the fear of the mad murderer with the chainsaw, fear of violence and pain and death (though certainly these are lurking around there, especially in Nashville), but rather something more fundamentally frightening, that you can look out into the world and just be fundamentally wrong, that your exterior reality is completely off, that years of your experience are a lie, a skit, a fiction, and that you might have gone on never knowing, that it might be happening right now. And that it can happen to you on the inside of a family, within its intimacy, that you can potentially honestly love something, someone who doesn't actually exist, who was manufactured for you to manipulate you, this is terrifying at some basic level of being that goes well beyond the cheap thrill of threatened dismemberment. This distinction mirrors, I think, that between fake art and real art. There's fear (not in your life, but in literature, in our generic expectations, in horror and slasher movies and crime fiction), there's fear and then there's fear. And which is more likely to happen to you, really? Very few of us are dismembered. All of us are, at least sometimes, mismatched between what we see and what actually is. Fundamentally, ripping bodies open and looking at what is inside of them and reveling in their gore is just not all that interesting, despite the fact that there are entire sub-genres and whole industries dedicated to doing it. Fear of Mark, though, that fear was riveting. Finally, I like that Hustvedt resists the glib and knowing categorization of Mark as a psychopath. She refrains, until the very end, from using the word, and I could feel it moving around in the back of my mind, asking to plant itself as definition, as closure, as explanation. That would have been an easy way out, THE easy way out, for me as a reader, for her as a writer. Violet's research problematizes all that, keeps the particular experience of Mark front and center, drives the fear and the particularity and the novel-y part of the novel, stops us from thinking we understand more than we do, flailing around wildly to put our worlds in order so that we can feel smart and safe. Resisting this impulse must have been hugely difficult. Resisting this impulse and making the novel she did instead is verging on genius. ...more It was a complete coincidence that I picked this book up at the library at the same time that I took out Paul Auster's Book of Illusions. As it turns out, the author of this book and Auster are married, and this book is dedicated to him. There are parallels in the themes they handle: loss of a child, deep and paralyzing grief, detailed descriptions of fictional pieces of artwork, vacations in Vermont. It's strange to read about those things from the perspective of two authors whose real lives ar It was a complete coincidence that I picked this book up at the library at the same time that I took out Paul Auster's Book of Illusions. As it turns out, the author of this book and Auster are married, and this book is dedicated to him. There are parallels in the themes they handle: loss of a child, deep and paralyzing grief, detailed descriptions of fictional pieces of artwork, vacations in Vermont. It's strange to read about those things from the perspective of two authors whose real lives are obviously very much intertwined. The way that each differently describes the grieving process of the narrator's wife (both novels are written from the male perspective). I suppose it shouldn't matter that much, but I found myself really wondering whether each was describing their confusion and bewilderment at the grieving process of the other. Did they, as a couple, lose a child? To get to the book itself, it was beautifully written, disturbing, and sort of cast a spell as I read it. I felt like some of the characters, with their confusions of identity, fears of disappearing, etc. I both enjoyed and dreaded the way it made me feel. ...more 'What I Loved' is a very good novel. Why? Because Siri Hustvedt understands people. She understands people *very damn well indeed*. It's a book about love and friendship (and the complex interminglings of the two), about age and loss. And it manages simultaneously to be both incredibly neat and wonderfully chaotic. There's a thing that Henry James does. I've written about it before. It's called ironic inversion \u2014 whereby an implication or expectation that's set up at the beginning of a novel is tu 'What I Loved' is a very good novel. Why? Because Siri Hustvedt understands people. She understands people *very damn well indeed*. It's a book about love and friendship (and the complex interminglings of the two), about age and loss. And it manages simultaneously to be both incredibly neat and wonderfully chaotic. There's a thing that Henry James does. I've written about it before. It's called ironic inversion \u2014 whereby an implication or expectation that's set up at the beginning of a novel is turned on its head by the time you get to the end. *But*, unlike a short story's twist-in-the-tail, the inversion happens so slowly and subtly that you don't actually notice it unless you pause and reflect. In 'What I Loved', Hustvedt executes a goddamn *masterful* ironic inversion. Her narrator, Leo Hertzberg, is an academic who studies, teaches and writes about art. And the novel's animating relationship is that between Leo and Bill Wechsler, an artist. In the early stages of the novel (the first third), much of Leo's narrative occupies itself with analysis of Bill's art. Whilst not *dry*, it's certainly not immediate. The beautiful thing that the novel does is, over the rest of its course, to dismantle the artificial distinctions between writing about life and writing about art and writing about people and knowing people and understanding art and understanding people and understanding yourself. This is what makes it both neat and chaotic: it reconciles and unites by expanding, rather than reducing. Which is a wankily abstract way of putting it, I realise. Essentially, Leo begins the novel engaging with Bill's art via the traditional mechanisms of academic analysis; he ends (implicitly) by simply writing Bill's \u2014 and his own \u2014 story. Which tells us more (of course) than any analytical essay. What's more, the ponderous pace of the novel's beginning is transmuted to an extraordinarily (almost vertiginously) compelling final stage. Hustvedt writes (to my mind) with superb emotional insight, and she examines \u2014 unflinchingly \u2014 scenarios of powerful emotional intensity. Her feeling for the nuances in relationships between characters \u2014 once again \u2014 reminds me of Henry James. Which is one whopper of a compliment, in case you were wondering. Like James, Hustvedt is never lazy. She never skates over the hard bit. She restlessly examines and reexamines her characters and their relation to one another. The whole of the novel (like many of James') concerns itself with the ambiguities of friendship and love \u2014 which too many novelists treat as discrete constants. So, again, there's a refusal to accept artificial barriers, to categorise baldly. And that's why I liked this novel so much. That and the fact I had to stop reading it *immediately* on the London Underground, because \u2014 had I not \u2014 I'd have started crying. Which isn't the done thing on the Piccadilly Line. ...more Siri Hustvedt\u2019s \u201cWhat I Loved\u201d is an unflinching dissection of two couples living in NYC circa the era of controversial performance art, raves and ecstasy, each with one son, all four adults involved in art or studies that involve the human body in what I\u2019ll call extremes \u2013 mentally and/or physically disturbing. The book raises so many questions it\u2019s hard to know where to begin. What constitutes art? What is the boundary between art and exploitation? The narrator, Leo, is an art historian and hi Siri Hustvedt\u2019s \u201cWhat I Loved\u201d is an unflinching dissection of two couples living in NYC circa the era of controversial performance art, raves and ecstasy, each with one son, all four adults involved in art or studies that involve the human body in what I\u2019ll call extremes \u2013 mentally and/or physically disturbing. The book raises so many questions it\u2019s hard to know where to begin. What constitutes art? What is the boundary between art and exploitation? The narrator, Leo, is an art historian and his BFF Bill is an artist whose main body of work consists of boxes of various sizes that contain scenes and objects that puzzle, repel, and attract. Works that cause strong reaction both positive and negative. Hustvedt chooses not to tell in which way Bill\u2019s childhood was troubled, but his brother Dan is mentally troubled and institutionalized. And as the book goes on, the focus is on Mark, Bill\u2019s son. Gradually Mark sociopathic tendencies manifest themselves as he becomes involved with Giles, whose art is violent and questionable. There is a lot of emotional pain in this book. It is not for the feint of heart. I tussled with the male voice from the get go in this book. Three pages in I realized the narrator was male and not female. (Okay, okay. Perhaps a man can think like a woman.) But even after settling in to Leo\u2019s narration and realizing what an intelligent book this is, I question Hustvedt\u2019s choice of voice. I thought this choice also forced women\u2019s issues, so prominent in the first part of the book, to evaporate as the story went on and the women dealt with their hardships by moving on to new lives, while the men never recovered. That said, focusing on the men and having all the characters play the roles as they did, made for a more interesting and discussable story. So I have my quibbles, but I do not wish to deter interested readers from this book. It is perhaps one of the best books I\u2019ve read on the essence (or non-essence) of art and the mystification of mental illness. But get your constitution up first. ...more Here is a big, ambitious novel about four talented, intelligent people -- artists and intellectuals in New York -- who first find love and friendship and then immense suffering. Bill, a talented and original artist, leaves Lucille, his emotionally stunted wife, for Violet, his passionate, vivacious model. Meanwhile their friends Leo and Erica live upstairs pursuing their own ecstatic marriage. The two couples have sons almost at the same time -- Mark and Matt. They vacation together in Vermont, Here is a big, ambitious novel about four talented, intelligent people -- artists and intellectuals in New York -- who first find love and friendship and then immense suffering. Bill, a talented and original artist, leaves Lucille, his emotionally stunted wife, for Violet, his passionate, vivacious model. Meanwhile their friends Leo and Erica live upstairs pursuing their own ecstatic marriage. The two couples have sons almost at the same time -- Mark and Matt. They vacation together in Vermont, they make love, enjoy food and good fellowship -- life is good. And then two acts of unbearable tragedy occur (I won't reveal them) and everything is broken. One tragedy happens in an instant and provides the jarring fulcrum around which this book turns. The other occurs slowly over the course of years. The protagonists struggle to preserve their loves, the lives they have built, their sanity -- but the reality they face is too powerful. Everything falls apart; almost nothing survives the wreckage. This is an absorbing and in many ways an admirable book. It is a novel of ideas that takes art seriously and brings it to life. There are dozens of other ideas woven through it -- about the nature of sickness, of reality, of truth. The writing is vivid, the characters psychologically convincing for the most part. Yet there is a spiritual emptiness at the center of these lives, a sense of life imitating art rather than the other way around. I found this novel impressive and occasionally shocking but I was not ultimately moved by it. It kept me at an emotional distance. I responded intellectually rather than feeling the joy and the pain. I admired its artistry a little too much. ...more Oh my goodness, I'm not sure I can articulate just how much I loved this book. So sad, so heartbreaking, so beautiful. The novel was thick and filled with digressions on art, psychology, history, but it never felt like a drag to read, and in fact I was terribly sorry when I read the last sentence. The characters seemed so real to me that I took delight in their happiness and felt my heart ache at their sadness. At one point I actually put the book down and wept, I was so devastated. (Thank god I Oh my goodness, I'm not sure I can articulate just how much I loved this book. So sad, so heartbreaking, so beautiful. The novel was thick and filled with digressions on art, psychology, history, but it never felt like a drag to read, and in fact I was terribly sorry when I read the last sentence. The characters seemed so real to me that I took delight in their happiness and felt my heart ache at their sadness. At one point I actually put the book down and wept, I was so devastated. (Thank god I was alone at the time.) I can count the number of times I've cried while reading a book on one hand, and I've only flat-out wept one other time. (That was during the end of *small voice* \"The Time Traveler's Wife. So embarrassing. *small voice*) If I had any criticism it would be that the ending almost seemed like it was part of an entirely different book, and it definitely had an element of \"ripped from the headlines\" true-crime drama. (I won't say which headline because I don't want to spoil.) So it was a bit odd to go from this meandering meditation on family and love and heartbreak to a crime story, but I suppose a book's gotta have a plot, and \"I fell in love then lost everyone and everything I loved\" is not enough of a plot for most. But still, it's a very minor criticism and not anything worth seeing as a detraction from my very enthusiastic five-star rating. ...more What an absolutely fucking phenomenal novel: this woman is my literary crush! Some other time, Siri. P.S. Ali Smith for Booker Prize. 'Todo cuanto am\u00e9', de Siri Hustvedt, es una de las novelas m\u00e1s inteligentes que he le\u00eddo \u00faltimamente. \u00bfC\u00f3mo calificar un libro de inteligente, por su erudici\u00f3n, por su estructura narrativa, por las ideas y pensamientos que desarrolla, por la trama...? Sin duda, 'Todo cuanto am\u00e9' cumple todos estos requisitos y algunos m\u00e1s. \u00bfDe qu\u00e9 trata? Es una historia de amor, como bien indica el t\u00edtulo, pero no s\u00f3lo de amor entre personas, tambi\u00e9n de amor por el arte y la creaci\u00f3n. Leo es un profesor de histor 'Todo cuanto am\u00e9', de Siri Hustvedt, es una de las novelas m\u00e1s inteligentes que he le\u00eddo \u00faltimamente. \u00bfC\u00f3mo calificar un libro de inteligente, por su erudici\u00f3n, por su estructura narrativa, por las ideas y pensamientos que desarrolla, por la trama...? Sin duda, 'Todo cuanto am\u00e9' cumple todos estos requisitos y algunos m\u00e1s. \u00bfDe qu\u00e9 trata? Es una historia de amor, como bien indica el t\u00edtulo, pero no s\u00f3lo de amor entre personas, tambi\u00e9n de amor por el arte y la creaci\u00f3n. Leo es un profesor de historia del arte que rememora parte de su vida cuando casi es un anciano. Un buen d\u00eda encuentra por casualidad cinco cartas en el interior de un libro que perteneci\u00f3 a su buen amigo Bill Wechler, un pintor al que conoci\u00f3 hace a\u00f1os, cuando compr\u00f3 uno de sus primeros cuadros. Es entonces cuando decide escribir su historia, tanto la suya propia, como la de su mujer Erica, tambi\u00e9n proferora, como la de Bill y sus mujeres, Lucille, poetisa, y Violet, modelo del artista y autora de las cartas. Pero esto no es todo, ya que un tr\u00e1gico suceso desencadenar\u00e1 los acontecimientos en ambas familias, y desvelar\u00e1 oscuros secretos. Siri Hustvedt tiene una prosa de gran sensibilidad, agudeza y sabidur\u00eda, que te va calando poco a poco hasta que te absorbe por completo, y que descubr\u00ed en su \u00faltimo y maravilloso libro, 'Eleg\u00eda para un americano'. En 'Todo cuanto am\u00e9', la historia se desarrolla despaciosamente, sin prisas, y a\u00fan as\u00ed hay veces que vuelves atr\u00e1s para releer alguna frase de gran profundidad. No exagero si afirmo que Siri Hustvedt es una grand\u00edsima escritora. ...more<---C>Siri Hustvedt</---C>", "Title": "What I Loved"},
