{"Comments": "The book is based on the belief that perhaps the actions, the deeds and karma are the only deciding factors in transforming an ordinary man to Mahadev - God of Gods. WHAT I LIKED THE MOST ABOUT THE BOOK Using the same characters, places and names which are associated with Lord <---C>Shiva</---C> -Mansarovar,Sati, Nandi, Daksh, Gunas, makes the whole story very believable and easy to relate to.Many euphoric moments throughout the narrative, especially the episode when Neelkanth inspires the Suryavanshi army to The book is based on the belief that perhaps the actions, the deeds and karma are the only deciding factors in transforming an ordinary man to Mahadev - God of Gods. WHAT I LIKED THE MOST ABOUT THE BOOK Using the same characters, places and names which are associated with Lord Shiva -Mansarovar,Sati, Nandi, Daksh, Gunas, makes the whole story very believable and easy to relate to.Many euphoric moments throughout the narrative, especially the episode when Neelkanth inspires the Suryavanshi army to believe in 'Har Har Mahadev' - each and every person is Mahadev. The climax and the final revelation to Neelkanth. His inner struggle, turmoil,<---M> frustration and desperation to find the answer</---M>, the solution and the final realization. Interweaving the sub plots of Saptrishis, Vasudevs, brief history of Devas and Asurasa and Rudra in the narrative without confusing the readers anywhere. Liked the detailed description of places and situations which helps the readers in understanding the story and moving along with it. A completely original plot brilliantly amalgamating mythology, history and fiction to create a mesmerizing saga. I would like to give 10/10 for the imagination of the author. The author has fictionalized and simplified the mythology to such an extent that it can easily be followed by all, thereby increasing its reach extensively. After reading this book, I was wondering, perhaps the 'page-turner' term was coined for such books. This book completely lives up to the term.Definitely one of the stories which will remain with the readers for a very long time and I am sure Shiva/Neelkanth/Mahadev will be in their hearts forever. ...more I first heard about this book from a friend who had said that the book was a good read. Curious I tried reading up more about it and saw that noted columnists like Anil Dharkar and Sandipan Deb had given it great reviews. I read the first chapter online and liked it well enough that I decided to buy it. I went to quite a few book shops and found that it was sold out in most places. That is really surprising for a first time Indian author. Finally I found it in a tiny little shop, the proprietor I first heard about this book from a friend who had said that the book was a good read. Curious I tried reading up more about it and saw that noted columnists like Anil Dharkar and Sandipan Deb had given it great reviews. I read the first chapter online and liked it well enough that I decided to buy it. I went to quite a few book shops and found that it was sold out in most places. That is really surprising for a first time Indian author. Finally I found it in a tiny little shop, the proprietor telling me that the one I bought was one of the last copies he had left.<---F> The plot seemed interesting enough</---F>. A different take on Shiva the destroyer, a god revered by millions of Hindus all over the world, one of the Trimurti (three main Gods, the others being Brahma the creator and Vishnu the preserver ), known as Natraj -- the lord of dance and one of the most passionate men in Hindu mythology. The author has done a good job of integrating all the details known to us about the Indus Valley Civilization and has also given his own explanations for various concepts. I liked the discussion on what is evil and the fact that what is considered evil or wrong by some people may not be seen in the same way by others. He has introduced concepts of terrorism, the caste system and the position of women in society in this first book in a planned trilogy. But that was all I liked about the book. The writing was poor and the editor needed to do a better job. The characters were flat and not at all well developed. It was hard to believe that people, even a wise king and his courtiers, would be so ready to believe that a person was their savior and blindly follow him without considering the consequences of their decisions. Also when an author wants to emphasize how good his protagonist is, it is best done in a subtle manner but here it is loudly proclaimed over and over again by the other characters which annoyed me a lot. Each fact is repeated over and over again in ten different ways and it made me wonder if the author thinks we are complete fools who will not get a concept on the first try. Even though modern language is necessary for a book to connect with the general audience, the author seems to have completely forgotten what his book was about & the language used was extremely jarring and cliched and kept distracting me from focusing on the book. The book reads more like a movie script than a novel. It seems as though the author has written the book keeping Bollywood producers and directors in mind, rather than genuine readers. The last few chapters, especially were very hastily written and seemed really rushed. The author had some good places where he could have ended this book but he chose to end the book with a cliffhanger and a 'To Be Continued'. Did the author not know what was to happen next? Or was he not convinced that his story was interesting enough for audiences to want to read the next book if he had given it a proper ending. Even in a book series a reader must be able to read a book and have a sense of conclusion which was absent here. Overall even though the author had a great idea and some really interesting ways of making it all come together, weak writing and poor editing makes this a very big let down. ...more Good story poorly written <---A>Amish Tripathi</---A> weaves a splendid but totally fictional & fantasised account of Shiva's traivails. For the folks looking for Lord Shiva's mythologicaly accurate chronical would feel frustrated. This book is certainly not for the purists; they should explore authetic SHIVA PURAN for that goal. This is a fabricated, but very well conceptualised story, weaving together the history(Indus Valley Civilization), geaography ( North Indian plains above the Vindhayas) & myth Good story poorly written Amish Tripathi weaves a splendid but totally fictional & fantasised account of Shiva's traivails. For the folks looking for Lord Shiva's mythologicaly accurate chronical would feel frustrated. This book is certainly not for the purists; they should explore authetic SHIVA PURAN for that goal. This is a fabricated, but very well conceptualised story, weaving together the history(Indus Valley Civilization), geaography ( North Indian plains above the Vindhayas) & mythology; it still is a fantasy neverthless! The publishers should have added an asterix with a disclaimer somewhere, else many readers might feel cheated, like me. The writer deserves kuddos for coming up with such creative story-plot, however the quality of writing is very pedestrain. This belongs to those beginners English students, for whom Amitava Ghosh's brillaiance maybe too much to comprehend. Chetan Bhaghat's audience is the target here, so serious Anglo-bibiliofiles beware; the 10th stanadard writing style would leave you unhappy. The story however holds enough content to keep you turning the pages. I wish the editors would have helped the author to rise to mthe ocassion & it could have been our desi reply to Eragon & twilight-saga! ...more Flat and ordinary writing. It is like reading an essay written by a child in school. I am a big fan of fantasy novels and especially those that are based on Indian mythology and that's why I had picked up this book early 2010 itself. Sadly, all my excitement died out after only the first chapter when I had figured out already what the quality of writing was. The one necessary element in any fantasy writing is strong profiles of the characters, especially the leading ones, since characters in fan Flat and ordinary writing. It is like reading an essay written by a child in school. I am a big fan of fantasy novels and especially those that are based on Indian mythology and that's why I had picked up this book early 2010 itself. Sadly, all my excitement died out after only the first chapter when I had figured out already what the quality of writing was. The one necessary element in any fantasy writing is strong profiles of the characters, especially the leading ones, since characters in fantasy stories are always larger than life. Another crucial element in fantasy novels is the creation of a sense of grandeur of the environment, the civilizations and races and also the characters' interactions with them. However, in this book, the author gets so engrossed in moving the story forward that he forgets to create an image of any of the characters or of the fantasy world they live in. While reading this novel, you get little idea that you are actually reading the story of a Grand character like Shiva Himself, who is on his way to become a God -not just any God but one of the Trinity- and also that the story revolves around a four thousand year old civilization whose aim is to create a near perfect society. Simply put, if you replace Shiva with any ordinary modern day protagonist in any modern day society, you will have the exact same story. In fact, half way through the book, I didn't care if Shiva lived or died or if the civilization he was protecting perished or thrived. I just wanted to get to the end of the book and finish it. ...more This book is a nightmare for all those who not only are devout lovers of Shiva but worship him for what we know of him. For me it definitely was a nightmare. The idea of his journey from human to supreme being is the only thing about the plot that I liked and which had tempted me to buy this book. But, very sadly, I could not relate to the Tripathi's take on Tibetan Shiva and to the very vague writing (which killed me)!! Moreover, if you really want to read a good mythology, why not read Shiva P This book is a nightmare for all those who not only are devout lovers of Shiva but worship him for what we know of him. For me it definitely was a nightmare. The idea of his journey from human to supreme being is the only thing about the plot that I liked and which had tempted me to buy this book. But, very sadly, I could not relate to the Tripathi's take on Tibetan Shiva and to the very vague writing (which killed me)!! Moreover, if you really want to read a good mythology, why not read Shiva Purana or Saivism this book is not for you. But, if in case you just want a not so well-written Indian fiction you could waste your time on this! I believe even fiction should have some essence to it. I am very disappointed. The thought that in this book Shiva does not know who Ram was when basically Hanuman was the eleventh avatar of Shiva makes no sense at all to me. I mean it's not that my 'sentiments' are 'hurt'. Just that this book could have talked about a time way before that which would have actually made sense. It seems like the Indian version of Harry Potter where Harry, who is destined to fulfill certain prophecy, plays along. The only difference being that he becomes God here! Sati cannot marry anyone and Daksha is perfecly happy that Shiva is interested in his daughter because he is already a Neelkanth(somehow). I mean it is not bad fiction but just that it's not appealing at all. I did not even want to finish reading it. It is sad that this is what is representing Contemporary Indian literature. Read Kalidasa instead, go back to 1BC, his plot and writings are way more interesting than this well marketed book! ...more Oh! What a book I have just finished reading... spell-binding and refreshingly different from the rest..! Amazed by the writer's flights of fantasy and how beautifully he has woven the mythology with fiction in a contemporary style..!! Must read..! I tried to avoid reading this book but eventually i fell prey to the so called 'positive reviews' and some really good marketing by Amish. Now i regret wasting my money & time on this one. The idea of portraying lord Shiva as 'just a man who went on to become a god' is really cool & a fresh one. Full marks to that. But apart from that everything is horrible. 1. Alternate history is alright as long as you make it believable. The nature of light and the reason behind the formation of rainbow I tried to avoid reading this book but eventually i fell prey to the so called 'positive reviews' and some really good marketing by Amish. Now i regret wasting my money & time on this one. The idea of portraying lord Shiva as 'just a man who went on to become a god' is really cool & a fresh one. Full marks to that. But apart from that everything is horrible. 1. Alternate history is alright as long as you make it believable. The nature of light and the reason behind the formation of rainbow could not have possibly been known at that time (1900 BC). Come on, we used to call it 'indra-dhanush'. Also, mention of oxygen (& free radicals) is totally out of place considering it was not discovered up until late 18th century. 2.Most of the logic and philosophy in the book is difficult to buy. It seems puerile and out of place. For example, the concept of making women deliver their babies at 'Maika' and then abandoning them immediately is cruel, unjustifiable and couldn't have worked in any society. The book sort of goes on to insult your intelligence. 3. The dialogues between characters seem straight out of some TV soap opera. 4. The author tries his best to sound humorous but fails at it terribly. Jokes seem unnatural (not just unfunny) and are forced into the plot which is irksome. 5. It has all the cliches in the book like when Sati takes the deadly arrow onto herself which was actually meant for Shiva and then Shiva charges towards the attacker deflecting the arrows shot at him with his sword, is simply preposterous. 6. The description of war is unoriginal and is totally inspired from Zack Snyder's '300'. 7. The book seems like the work of a dilettante. All in all, the book might work for some Indian readers, who have not read much before and the simplicity of the language might appeal to them (which i think is the major reason for the commercial success of this book in India). But regular & mature readers, who have read some good books before should refrain themselves from reading this one. It is utter waste of time & money. In my case, after reading 50 pages i just wanted it to be over and believe me it was really painful read. So, don't get fooled by the positive reviews & find a good book to read. The world is full of them. ...more Actual rating: 2.5 There were times when I believed this book to be five-star worthy, but these moments were too few and far in between. Now, having finished the 400-odd pages that comprise the first instalment of the highly acclaimed Shiva trilogy, I can\u2019t even bring myself to round up the rating to three. Let\u2019s start with the plus-points: I thought the story was brilliant. Amish Tripathi\u2019s imagination is fantastic. The idea that Gods were originally humans, elevated to divine status by their kar Actual rating: 2.5 There were times when I believed this book to be five-star worthy, but these moments were too few and far in between. Now, having finished the 400-odd pages that comprise the first instalment of the highly acclaimed Shiva trilogy, I can\u2019t even bring myself to round up the rating to three. Let\u2019s start with the plus-points: I thought the story was brilliant. Amish Tripathi\u2019s imagination is fantastic. The idea that Gods were originally humans, elevated to divine status by their karma, is awe-inspiring. The twists and turns are well-executed and keep you guessing. The way the author has so seamlessly combined history with mythology is astonishing. Really, I loved the story. However, awesome stories don\u2019t always make awesome books. The biggest letdown was the writing. I felt the author tried too hard to flower up the language by using big, ostentatious words repeatedly, and the effort showed. It reminded me of an essay by a school kid, who\u2019s just learnt a new word and is eager to use it at any opportunity he might get. Seriously, isn\u2019t \u2018kindness\u2019 a much better substitute to \u2018munificence\u2019? And isn\u2019t \u2018arrogant\u2019 a lot less conspicuous than \u2018supercilious\u2019? And because the writing was so contrived, it was impossible to connect to the story. It felt like a really long bedtime story that you simply read for the sake of reading and maybe, falling asleep. The characters were nothing new. And throughout the book, I was painfully aware of the fact that the characters were just characters: fictional, fake elements of the story. I couldn\u2019t empathize with them. I couldn\u2019t visualise them in flesh and blood. And the end isn\u2019t exactly an end. You could call it a cliff-hanger, except it didn\u2019t really make me want to run to the library and get the next book. At the most, it made me curious, but that feeling didn\u2019t last too long. The Immortals Of Meluha is like a movie with a promising plot, that is unfortunately botched up due to sloppy editing and uninspiring performances. And yes, there\u2019s a sequel. So I guess I just have to wait and watch. ...more When I first heard of the book I was a bit apprehensive for a few reasons. 1) I\u2019m not a fan of Indian mythology, I adore Greek mythology and I am mildly interested in Egyptian but Indian mythology never appealed to me. 2) The author had said in an interview that he worshipped Shiva. People tend to sometimes show their own heroes/idols in a supreme being/perfect way therefore I assumed that Amish Tripathi had done the same. 3) The Indian market is full of books written by authors who come from field When I first heard of the book I was a bit apprehensive for a few reasons. 1)\tI\u2019m not a fan of Indian mythology, I adore Greek mythology and I am mildly interested in Egyptian but Indian mythology never appealed to me. 2)\tThe author had said in an interview that he worshipped Shiva. People tend to sometimes show their own heroes/idols in a supreme being/perfect way therefore I assumed that Amish Tripathi had done the same. 3)\tThe Indian market is full of books written by authors who come from fields which are completely un related to Literature. They write books which are poor in writing and are completely devoid of any plot. Catering to the mass Indian audience who love that sort of chick lit writing they get away with a lot of money. Please don\u2019t get me wrong, I\u2019m not being a snob and saying only those who study literature come out as good authors. There are plenty of good authors who have never studied literature and have yet written excellent books, writing is an inborn talent. What I am trying to say is that not many of these chick lit-YA authors do not have that talent yet write books anyway. Anyway, I was sure I\u2019d give the book a miss. But then on my 14th birthday a friend of mine gifted me this book and so I gave it a read. I\u2019m not going to say that the book blew me off completely and that I was left gasping for breath and cursing my own stupidity for not devoting my entire life to Indian authors. But it did give me a few pleasant surprises. I liked the way the characters, especially Shiva, developed throughout the book. Tripathi, instead of giving away the full magnitude of each character\u2019s personality at their very introduction let them unfold throughout the book one by one like the many layers of a cake. Almost all the characters grew through the book, blossoming slowly to reveal themselves as complex human beings, not just cardboard cut outs. The only main character I can think of who remained more or less the same till the end of the book is Sati. I was proved wrong in my opinion of the book being another outlet of hero worship. Shiva wasn\u2019t an all mighty, all powerful god who knew everything, never made any mistakes, never strayed of the path of dharma; he was a hot tempered youth who lead a tribe, smoked marijuana and swore in almost every other thought. In fact, if anything, he swore too much. I liked the way he grew in the book, gaining knowledge, experience and wisdom and never losing his humility though everyone worshipped the ground he stood on. The writing, however, was poor. The author used over powering adjectives, melodramatic comparisons and seriously strong description. At one point in the book when Shiva first met Sati, Tripathi wote: \u201c\u2026 he(Shiva) continued to stare at the dust with intense jealousy. It had been fortunate enough to have touched her\u201d What?!? I get that the guy\u2019s in love, but don\u2019t you think that\u2019s a tad too melodramatic? The concept of the book was nice. I liked the way the author contrasted the two civilizations of Suryavanshis and Chandravanshis. The detailed descriptions of the city were, I think, based on the Mohenjo Daro civilization. Especially that part of the drainage system and the houses being at right angles with each other and the great bath. The society of the Suryavanshis was fascinating. I found myself wondering if it was actually possible to follow their beliefs and system in our society. Also the justification of the vikarma practice showed that the author gave great attention to the grays of the society where often the happiness of a few have to be sacrificed for the greater good of the others. Overall, I liked the book, though I can\u2019t say I fell head over heels in love with it(my heart, I\u2019m afraid, was stolen by the Potter books and I am yet to have it back). I look forward to the next book and I am glad that an Indian author has emerged who has been able to bring Indian mythology into the word of YA literature. ...more I started off reading this book not out of some incentive, but out of an assignment at my previous workplace. At the outset, I had been right about my impression. The book is a midpoint between Chetan Bhagat's mind-numbing thrillers and a good mythology book. It's a sad state of affairs that most Indians have prescribed to a fast way of life and refuse to read a good book, but will take the short-cut by reading a fast-paced thriller that cheats us into finding out loads about our own culture. I w I started off reading this book not out of some incentive, but out of an assignment at my previous workplace. At the outset, I had been right about my impression. The book is a midpoint between Chetan Bhagat's mind-numbing thrillers and a good mythology book. It's a sad state of affairs that most Indians have prescribed to a fast way of life and refuse to read a good book, but will take the short-cut by reading a fast-paced thriller that cheats us into finding out loads about our own culture. I wouldn't deny that Amish makes a genuine effort to reveal to the reader much about our mythology, but I have serious reservations against the way he does it. Shiva, Amish's protagonist who is based on lord Shiva we are familiar with, is a characterization that is unorthodox and disturbing at times, if I may add. Shiva uses expressions like \"shit\" and \"dude\", which made me squirm. The trilogy is based on mythology but what Amish does is modify it to make it more palatable to the chick-lit loving Indian. The story is well paced and certainly worth a try, if not for the language and terrible editing, but for the plethora of mythology that has been twisted for the reader. Many people I know have taken to this book before reading up on their mythology. My argument is that \"Immortals\" is but a story that may go down generations, while the original tales will die a slow death. If you really want to learn about your culture, you might as well take up a Devdutt Patnaik or a Rajagopalachari. If you are merely looking for a fast read, the trilogy isn't disappointing. ...more I first saw the ad for Immortals of Meluha on You Tube and it piqued my curiosity. A thriller set against the backdrop of ancient Meluha with Lord Shiva as the protagonist sounded novel. The intriguing theme and the glorified blurbs heightened my expectations from the book. The cover was nicely done and impressive. So, with eager anticipation, typical of a bibliophile, I started reading. But the first few pages itself planted a seed of doubt in my mind. With a plot that is virtually non-existent I first saw the ad for Immortals of Meluha on You Tube and it piqued my curiosity. A thriller set against the backdrop of ancient Meluha with Lord Shiva as the protagonist sounded novel. The intriguing theme and the glorified blurbs heightened my expectations from the book. The cover was nicely done and impressive. So, with eager anticipation, typical of a bibliophile, I started reading. But the first few pages itself planted a seed of doubt in my mind. With a plot that is virtually non-existent, characters that are quarter-baked, terrible language and dialogues that range from asinine to absurd, Immortals of Meluha can be best described as a brilliant concept gone complete awry in execution. It is only because of my strict principle of finishing a book I start, no matter how horrible it is, that I managed to drag myself to the last page. The only thing rivaling the colander-like plot was the ridiculous ending. Reminded me the way Ekta Kapoor soap episodes used to get over, with a cheap suspense that materialized into nothing in the next episode. In short, a book that was a complete waste of time. Reading the yellow pages might have been a better way to pass time. How this became a national bestseller is way beyond my comprehension!!! ...more <+++>The Immortals of Meluha</+++> is a mythological novel (erroneously labelled sometimes as epic fantasy) that takes one of the gods of Indian mythology and portrays him as a man. Amish intelligently tweaks and warps the cast of familiar characters (familiar to Indians, at least), and paints a fantastical version of Shiva's life that is credible in some parts and amateurish in others. It is not a version the religious or the traditional will appreciate, but is one that will appeal to those who are not av <+++>The Immortals of Meluha</+++> is a mythological novel (erroneously labelled sometimes as epic fantasy) that takes one of the gods of Indian mythology and portrays him as a man. Amish intelligently tweaks and warps the cast of familiar characters (familiar to Indians, at least), and paints a fantastical version of Shiva's life that is credible in some parts and amateurish in others. It is not a version the religious or the traditional will appreciate, but is one that will appeal to those who are not averse to morphing mythology. I tried reading the novel objectively, independent of the Indian and mythological contexts, and found it middling in story line and execution. But add the mythological context and powerful attachment to Lord Shiva in India, and the book becomes a big deal for some readers. There are couple of twists towards the end that are interesting. At the same time, some amateurish attempts to link up the modern and old (eg. antioxidants give immortality) don't hold water. The author must be commended for his courage in playing with religious beliefs. Having said that, the success of his work shows that the average English novel reading Shiva devotee has high tolerance. In summary, it is good in parts, and may be enjoyed by those Indian readers who are not very picky. Overall Rating: 2.5 / 5 Sub-ratings: Setting (3); Story (2); Characters (3); Writing (2) ...more It grows on you.. even though childish for the most part, the child in us can not help but grow to like shiva A pure adult fantasy (in a nice way)... 'The Immortal of Meluha\u2019 is a mythical fiction book\u2026 The legends of the past have been recreated.. Gods are humanized and traditions are questioned. Without revealing too much I would say it traces beautifully the journey of Shiva from being a tribal to a 'Mahadeva'. Even other popular characters of Ram, Nandi, Sati, Daksha, Brahma are neatly placed. Only one issue the English used is too local and common phrases like 'dammit' 'what in the name of' etc soun A pure adult fantasy (in a nice way)... 'The Immortal of Meluha\u2019 is a mythical fiction book\u2026 The legends of the past have been recreated.. Gods are humanized and traditions are questioned. Without revealing too much I would say it traces beautifully the journey of Shiva from being a tribal to a 'Mahadeva'. Even other popular characters of Ram, Nandi, Sati, Daksha, Brahma are neatly placed. Only one issue the English used is too local and common phrases like 'dammit' 'what in the name of' etc sound too cliched and take away the glory & grace of the story.. Otherwise the subjects of Caste system, old cities of Harappa & Mohenjo-Daro, creation of 'Trishula', and the cry of \u2018Har Har Mahadeva\u2019 are explicitly weaved in, leaving you asking for more\u2026 And not to worry Amish has a trilogy to meet your appetite and keep you hooked till the next ones hit the market... To read more: http://storywala.blogspot.in/2010/08/... ...more I've just finished this book & all I can think of right now is a silent plea to the Almighty - \"Hey Mahadev, you blessed Amish with tremendous amount of inspiration to write a book like this. Perhaps, he could have done with some perspiration too, so he could have strived to write this book much better than it turned out to be.\" There, I said it. And that is the biggest grievance I have with Mr. Amish over his bestselling debut novel. I don't need to go over the plot (hell, all my friends in c I've just finished this book & all I can think of right now is a silent plea to the Almighty - \"Hey Mahadev, you blessed Amish with tremendous amount of inspiration to write a book like this. Perhaps, he could have done with some perspiration too, so he could have strived to write this book much better than it turned out to be.\" There, I said it. And that is the biggest grievance I have with Mr. Amish over his bestselling debut novel. I don't need to go over the plot (hell, all my friends in college who call themselves 'casual readers' had read this about a year back & had been telling me to read this ever since & then I finally borrowed the entire Shiva trilogy from a dear friend back in March in the middle of my university exams) & needless to say, Amish had a brilliant one on his hands. I'm no believer but you can't help being charmed by the Tibetan immigrant Shiva - the awe I felt as a kid when I read the Mahabharata & the Ramayana narrated in a style a la Amar Chitra Katha. The storytelling is decent too, given it is quite a page-turner. And that is where pretty much all the good things about it stop. The writing is a major let-down, for a story of this scope deserves a hell lot better prose than what Amish offers. No, don't even get started on how this is written in a modern style, the existing standards of Indian popular fiction, blah blah. When you have a story like this, you have to work hard enough to give it the writing it deserves. Barring a couple of well-written war scenes (verging on the epic & did give me a bit of gooseflesh) & a bit of the seeming allegory between Harappa & modern India when Shiva visits Ayodhya (I was impressed by that part), this book has inexplicably bad, lazy writing. Why does King Daksha seem to go around 'hugging' everyone 'tightly'? Why does everyone seem to 'guffaw loudly' (Jai Shri Siddhu!) when a slight grin seems to auffice for the amount of humour in that particular situation? Why does Shiva & every soul unrelated to him or his dear ones get teary-eyed in every other situation involving them? Like some of my friends would say, \"Kitna rota hai bey.\" (deriding someone for being too sentimental) There are two kinds of readers - one who prefer writing over plot & vice versa. I'm one who changes sides as I switch from literary to popular fiction, but I'm usually on the side of the latter esp. when it comes to popular fiction. But I'm unequivocal on the stand that even popular fiction should have an acceptable standard in terms of writing & that is somewhere Mr. Amish fails considerably. Still, if you can overlook the writing & focus only on plot, I do think there is a really captivating tale to be enjoyed here. I'm going with a rating of 3 to 3.5 stars for 'The Immortals of Meluha', the first book of the Shiva Trilogy by Amish Tripathi. Go for it if you're looking for a fast read, nothing more (given you haven't read it already). ...more Gods. Fables. Deities. Myths. Entities of immense and unfathomable power that is limited only by imagination. Creators and destroyers of worlds. Bramha, Vishnu, Mahesh and all the myriad entities of good and evil in the Hindu Pantheon. Long has been my fascination with all of them, and like so many of us I have often asked the question \"Did they really exist?\". If they did, what would drive the actions of such giants? What would they be inspired by, when they could remake worlds in a whim? What i Gods. Fables. Deities. Myths. Entities of immense and unfathomable power that is limited only by imagination. Creators and destroyers of worlds. Bramha, Vishnu, Mahesh and all the myriad entities of good and evil in the Hindu Pantheon. Long has been my fascination with all of them, and like so many of us I have often asked the question \"Did they really exist?\". If they did, what would drive the actions of such giants? What would they be inspired by, when they could remake worlds in a whim? What if they weren't passive observers with their abodes in the skies, but instead were living, breathing, confused, loving, hating, full-of-life beings just like the rest of us? History meets mythology in The Immortals of Meluha which undertakes the unenviable task of retelling the tale of the Lord Shiva, the Destroyer of Worlds. But the man we meet is not a celestial being. Instead, he is a great warrior with perhaps a destiny bigger than he can imagine, but one that he is relentlessly unsure of. How can a man who doubts himself be a Mahadev, a God of Gods? And what makes a mortal - a being of flesh and blood, a Mahadev? In the first book of a trilogy, we join Shiva - a Tibetan tribal general on a quest that will lead him to worlds beyond his imagining, and impossible choices as he is faced with the titanic task of saving a civilization he knows nothing about. Sit on the shoulder of the giants of lore, and take a magnificent journey through the India of myth in the Immortals of Meluha, a magnificent, spellbinding journey through epic wars, superhuman bravery, and a God's quest to conquer the greatest kingdom of them all - the kingdom of the SELF. Highly recommended. ...more The book is as all the reviews point out, a very good read. Ever since i read the synopsis on a website, i wanted to read the book and once i started reading the book it proved to be page turner indeed. The book has got all the goodness of a 'grandmother's tale' and all the masala of a 'bollywood movie'. I would rather say that, it is a grand mother's tale in a bollywood style. It has got everything, mystery, myth, history, spirituality, suspense, action, love, friendship & what not. But then, The book is as all the reviews point out, a very good read. Ever since i read the synopsis on a website, i wanted to read the book and once i started reading the book it proved to be page turner indeed. The book has got all the goodness of a 'grandmother's tale' and all the masala of a 'bollywood movie'. I would rather say that, it is a grand mother's tale in a bollywood style. It has got everything, mystery, myth, history, spirituality, suspense, action, love, friendship & what not. But then, with the positives, there are also negatives. There are areas in the book where the author completely loses it. That perfect blend of the qualities i mentioned, entirely goes for a toss. The reader also gets a feeling that some areas have been rushed through & a few others have been overdone. Language & writing also gets pathetic at times. Why the hell does he explain every word of Indian language immediately after the usage in English when he has glossary as an appendix. And, the author could have avoided the usage of the phrases like 'Damn it'. Above all, the climax is a pity. The Cliffhanger climax ruins everything the book & the wonderful last chapter builds up. When you put down the book after reading, you feel like you had accidentally changed the channel & watched stupid ending of a prime-time soap. Negatives apart, i would like to end the review on a positive note. The author indeed is worthy of all praises for showcasing our Mahadev as a simple man just like you and me with flesh, bone and blood. The messages it conveys is something worthy of keeping in your heart- \"Har Har Mahadev\", Everyone is God!! ...more Full Review originally at Fantasy Book Critic ANALYSIS: There\u2019s quite a backstory to The Immortals Of Meluha. It was a book that was rejected by almost every publisher that the author had approached. Disappointed but not defeated the author went on to self-publish it and with a strong online presence managed to sell enough copies to become an Indian bestseller. He was of course then taken on by a traditional publisher and became a reputed bestseller all across the Indian subcontinent while bein Full Review originally at Fantasy Book Critic ANALYSIS: There\u2019s quite a backstory to The Immortals Of Meluha. It was a book that was rejected by almost every publisher that the author had approached. Disappointed but not defeated the author went on to self-publish it and with a strong online presence managed to sell enough copies to become an Indian bestseller. He was of course then taken on by a traditional publisher and became a reputed bestseller all across the Indian subcontinent while being translated into many languages as well. The story focuses on Shiva, a twenty-one year old warrior who is living with his tribesmen in what is currently Tibet. He comes across a group of Meluhans (Meluha is what is now Western India & Pakistan) who are searching for something or someone. Shiva\u2019s tribe is called the Gunas and another tribe called the Pakratis is hunting them. Shiva detests the needless violence and decides to follow the Meluhan party back to their land. Things seem troublesome in Meluha wherein the Suryavanshi kings (Descendants of the Sun) are the rulers and the people live by Suryavanshi standards. They are facing friction from their eastern neighbors, the land of Swadeep ruled by Chandravanshis (Descendants of the moon) as both sides are clueless in regards to the drying up of the Saraswati River and hence blame each other for their differences. There\u2019s Nandi who yearns to be the right hand to the prophesied \u201cNeelkanth\u201d, Sati is the Suryavanshi princess who is rather held down by an archaic law and might find release if she can find the true path. Then there\u2019s Brahaspati who provides Shiva with some mental acuity and comic relief as he tries to help the \u201cNeelkanth\u201d with his role. Thrust into this maelstrom of people and events, is Shiva who while being a foreigner is still caught up in the throes of an ancient prophecy whilst not believing it personally? Thus begins the first chronicle of the Shiva trilogy. I was able to read this book when it was released in India and I have to say I enjoyed it a lot for a variety of reasons. The mythological aspect of the story is highlighted in a big way; the author has utilized a lot of aspects of mythos associated with Lord Shiva and had inserted them intelligently in the story. As a person who\u2019s decently versed in Indian mythology, I was certainly blown away by the author\u2019s expertise in utilizing small mythological kernels and factoids and planning the story around their like. Secondly the story is pretty linear and very fast paced, from the start the reader is introduced to an ancient world however the plot twists and the pace will have the readers racing along smoothly. For many readers the terminology and settings of the story might be very different that what they have come to expect within epic fantasy however the glossary provided will help tremendously in their understanding of the plot and terms. Characterization is very relatable however the characters seem a bit two-dimensional. This might also be due to the fact that this was a debut novel and written a few years ago. There\u2019s also the epic storyline and the author does his best to lay out the details of the conflict brewing as well sow some seeds of confusion to misdirect the main characters as well as the readers. I would recommend the readers refer to the glossary whilst reading the story as that way they can get more out of the story and its intricacies. I was hooked onto the happenings from cover to cover and couldn\u2019t read faster to reach the climax and the author ends it on a very nice cliffhanger. This was a very crucial move by the author as readers on reading the last words will want to jump into the next book immediately. The writing is definitely smooth and the prose very accessible for any reader to be immediately drawn in to the story and world presented. One of the things that I found to be a bit jarring was the modern day slang and jargon that was utilized throughout the story. The author describes many situations and often the characters mouth dialogues and terms as if they were living in the modern era instead of four millennia ago as per the tale settings. This was a point, which has been criticized by many readers as well as many critics and is a thoroughly valid one. This is the one major flaw of an otherwise very good debut. Many might feel that the story seems very formulaic by epic fantasy standards in spite of the Indian settings and that might something to keep in mind while reading this debut. The characters appear a bit two-dimensional and are also a bit predictable however since this is the first volume, I think we can wait to see how the individual and overall characters arc pan out in the remaining volumes. CONCLUSION: I had hopes that this book would be a good read however the author did one better and made it a fun one. Amish Tripathi is a talented man and he proves himself to be an effective storyteller as well. This book is highly recommended for those wanting to read something different in the field of epic fantasy. Amish joins the diverse epic fantasy wave spurred on by the likes of Saladin Ahmed, Martha Wells and few others, with his take of a fantasy tale with a terrific Indian mythological bent. ...more Dear Amish - Please stop making Ekta Kapoor soaps out of Indian Mythology. We hindus have a big heart and usually accept these kinds of remodelling of our sacred books. But this work is hopeless. This book is just a overhyped and overtalked about indian book, that has no moral value to impart. The writer starts of by saying that he wants to make shiva believable as a man and someone just like us, yet in the entire story, miracles keep happening all the time (none of which happen in our lives and Dear Amish - Please stop making Ekta Kapoor soaps out of Indian Mythology. We hindus have a big heart and usually accept these kinds of remodelling of our sacred books. But this work is hopeless. This book is just a overhyped and overtalked about indian book, that has no moral value to impart. The writer starts of by saying that he wants to make shiva believable as a man and someone just like us, yet in the entire story, miracles keep happening all the time (none of which happen in our lives and hence cannot be related at all). Poor usage of langauge and random usage of swear words make the book an absolute pain to read. Just for an instance, I started counting the number of times the word \"hell\" has been used by shiva in the entire book - 32 times. The writer who has studied Finance and got an IIM degree, is expected to do a little bit more research before writing on topics as popular as shiva, since shiva is worshiped in every house in India and people know stuff already. NeelKanth does not mean blue throat - Neela in sanskrit means dark and not blue. Next time, please do some more digging and get some depth. Characters in this book keep dragging the same question again and again - for eg. - shiva keeps asking people whats the significance of being neelkanth, and no one tells him that, though we already know that people are aware of the facts. And in answer shiva keeps swearing - \"What the hell with this blue throat?\" LOL. The meeting of shiva with his love is completely ridiculous. Seems like Amish Tripathy picked it out of some bollywood crap movie and put it there. Please Mr Author, these are dangerous waters, tread with caution. This is completely worthless piece of work which has nothing to contribute to the society, this book was written for the sole purpose of making money, and that, it has done successfully - thanks to the ample publicity. Playing with a soft ball is a better time pass than reading this book. ...more \" The Immortals of Meluha\" is an easy read for anyone who is having even a passing interest in the Hindu mythology. I have read interpretations on various other mythologies such as Greek, roman, christian etc but those were mythologies that I acquainted myself with for the sake of curiosity. But the Hindu mythology is something that I was led to believe from my very childhood itself as a result I found it very hard to remain objective throughout the book. Of course as we grow more and more knowl \" The Immortals of Meluha\" is an easy read for anyone who is having even a passing interest in the Hindu mythology. I have read interpretations on various other mythologies such as Greek, roman, christian etc but those were mythologies that I acquainted myself with for the sake of curiosity. But the Hindu mythology is something that I was led to believe from my very childhood itself as a result I found it very hard to remain objective throughout the book. Of course as we grow more and more knowledge is accumulated, and the sheer impossibility of stories makes us want to seek scientific explanations or historical proofs for the same, which we may choose to believe or not. \" The Immortals of Meluha\" by Amish Tripathi is not an endeavor to explain the mythology relating to Lord Shiva but a retelling of his tale. When I took up this book the one thing that drew me to it's premise was the fact that the main character Lord Shiva is portrayed as an ordinary human being who became an immortal and the great Mahadev through his deeds alone. But the truth is, in this book Shiva is never an ordinary man. He is divine from the very beginning and special. He is termed the \"Neelakanta\" the savior not because of his deed but because of a prophecy. Without bringing the aspect of Shiva and his mythology in to focus analysing the story in general, you will end up with a very common crux. A civilization under threat of destruction, a prophecy foretelling the coming of a savior from a land beyond, the arrival of the foretold one and his exploits. Simple enough story but when the savior is Shiva aka Mahadev the story takes a life of its own. I found the story very enjoyable even though certain instances failed to commend themselves to genuine logic. For one thing the story takes place in 1900 BC. But the author fails to capture the true essence of that time period by using names such as Kashmir and India for the places where the story takes place. One might argue that there is a possibility that those names were used even at that time and attribute the fact to the creative freedom but still these simple facts stick out like a sore thumb. I liked the author's creativity of give Siva's love interest the name Sati, the name of his first wife in Hindu mythology and stating that she is also known by the name Parvati, the second wife of Lord Shiva according to myth. The interweaving of the Ramayana story in to the background of this one is a pure stroke of genius and takes the story to uncharted territories that need to be explored. All in all a commendable effort that needs to be given its due appreciation. ...more Long since I read this book, still I could feel the reverberation of \"Har Har Mahadev\" in my ears _/\\_ Being the first novel in Amish's Shiva Trilogy series, this novel is all about the rise of Shiva and his romance with his better-half, Sati <3 :) What intrigued me to read this book is the fact that this book is not for those who believe in Shiva Puran, Saivisam and lord Ram's ways of ruling. Its a piece of pure-imagination, where the author gives scope for tribal Shiva to elevate himself to be Long since I read this book, still I could feel the reverberation of \"Har Har Mahadev\" in my ears _/\\_ Being the first novel in Amish's Shiva Trilogy series, this novel is all about the rise of Shiva and his romance with his better-half, Sati <3 :) What intrigued me to read this book is the fact that this book is not for those who believe in Shiva Puran, Saivisam and lord Ram's ways of ruling. Its a piece of pure-imagination, where the author gives scope for tribal Shiva to elevate himself to be the God-of-Gods breaking the rules of Lord Ram with the course of time with his intellect and bravery. I could literally visualize Shiva's Rudhrathandav with Sati, for they're written with words of throbbing energy. There are quotes, which you cannot forget for the rest of your life, once you read them. Few among them, which are my favorite are, // Whether a man is a legend or not is decided by history, not fortune tellers. // // A man becomes Mahadev only when he fights for good. // // The most powerful force in a woman's life is the need to be appreciated, loved and cherished for what she is. // // Either you'll stay with or I'll leave the world with you (Shiva to Sati in her death-bed) // Captain Nandhi, Veer Badhra, Brihaspati, Auyrvati, Somras, Dakshna and all those Suryavanshi soldiers made the ride worth-while. I could sense the love in Amish Trivedi which he had for his beloved Mahadev, Shiva. Cant wait anymore to grab the second book ! P.S. If you're that single person who cannot come out of Indian Mythological facts, this book can hurt your sentiments, seriously. There's no point in rating this book badly if you're so attached to cliched facts, its obvious that you can't digest this book. ...more Awesome!! The first time i came across reading a book with mythology blended with some fiction! The author should be appreciated for his braveness in thinking to write a book like this! He has chosen a high profile god in India as a lead in his franchise! even a minor misinterpretation would lead to a major criticism from every one. The author not only succeeded in avoiding it but also came up with this wonderful epic book! One thing i would like to tell for the would be readers of this book, pls Awesome!! The first time i came across reading a book with mythology blended with some fiction! The author should be appreciated for his braveness in thinking to write a book like this! He has chosen a high profile god in India as a lead in his franchise! even a minor misinterpretation would lead to a major criticism from every one. The author not only succeeded in avoiding it but also came up with this wonderful epic book! One thing i would like to tell for the would be readers of this book, pls remove Lord shiva and think u r reading about a leader shiva. Else u might feel uncomfortable with the book! I havent found anything negative in this book! I started the book with a different set of mind and the ending was much pleasure. U can find mind boggling twist n turns in this first part. All the mythological characters were introduced and taken in the story with perfect elegance and one cannot find any mistake in it (as far as i felt) Cant wait to move on to the second part! ...more Started reading this book only last week after hearing about it from a few friends. Ended up wondering how did I not pick this up for reading till now! Lord Shiva has graced my Life when I started practicing Isha Yoga more than three years ago. Reading about his Life - even imagined one - was a revelation. A friend warned that once you pick it up, you can't put it down. How true? Finished the book in one go, in just 3 sittings. It has been a long while since I've done such voracious reading! 'Immor Started reading this book only last week after hearing about it from a few friends. Ended up wondering how did I not pick this up for reading till now! Lord Shiva has graced my Life when I started practicing Isha Yoga more than three years ago. Reading about his Life - even imagined one - was a revelation. A friend warned that once you pick it up, you can't put it down. How true? Finished the book in one go, in just 3 sittings. It has been a long while since I've done such voracious reading! 'Immortals of Meluha' is the first part of Shiva Trilogy by young first time author Amish Tripathi. He sure knows how to tell a story, with memorable characters who we'll end up rooting for, vivid detail of the great nation of Bharat, its people and culture several thousands of years ago and truly nail biting action and heart tugging romance that actually place you right in the midst of it all. Amish has vividly re-imagined Lord Shiva as an intelligent, witty, strong willed and macho man who rose to be God of Gods (Mahadev), rather than sticking to the standard known premise of him being worshiped as a God. So 'Immortals of Meluha' is nothing but 'Shiva Puran' for the Millennials. One they'll thoroughly love and immensely enjoy to read, like, comment & share! The distinct and distinguished characters like Shiva, Sati, Nandi, Brahaspati & Daksha who're well known to those of us who've heard, read or watched Shiva Puran or those that've been created by Amish himself such as Ayurvati, Parvateshwar, Kanakhala, Badhra, Krithika, Drapaku, the nameless Naga warrior & Vasudevs make the story immensely enjoyable with each of them roaming the land of ancient India and living their lives right in front of our eyes. The way Amish has beautifully tied together every legend associated with Lord Shiva, from Kailash, Manasarover to Tiger Skin to Neelkanth to Bharathanatyam dance to Trishul to the war cry 'Har Har Mahadev', leaves one in suspended disbelief thinking 'oh, this is how it must've been'! Lord Shiva is also portrayed as a revered Leader who's a non-conformist and didn't bother too much about hierarchy, class, creed, taboos or the business-as-usual way of doing things. The way Amish points out how culturally, socially and technologically the Suryavanshis (a race of Indians who're the inhabitants of Meluha or the Indus Valley) were superior and how talent or skill was respected over birth and how women were equal to men, will serve even the current society and generation well. I also had a few deeply spiritual experiences (similar to the ones I had in my Master Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev's presence or while attending Isha Yoga programs) while reading the book - esp. when Ayurvati sights the Neelkanth for the first time and when Shiva performs his Thaandavam (dance) for the first time. \"And then came the dance\" is now etched deeply in my soul along with the dancing formless form of Lord Shiva. Immortals of Meluha is highly recommended for anyone who loves fiction and is interested in history of a great nation and the mythology that surrounds that history! Shambo Mahadev! ...more Dalam mitologi Hindu di pelajaran sekolah, Siwa termasuk dalam Tri Murti yaitu tiga dewa tertinggi yang mempunyai tugas dan fungsi yang berbeda dalam kehidupan. Kisah kelahiran Siwa sang Mahadewa juga di kisahkan dalam berbagai versi. Saranku? Hapus semua bayangan itu sebelum membaca buku pertama dari Amish ini, karena yang disajikan di sini seperti campuran dari banyak versi dan menghasilkan sesuatu yang berbeda. Siwa (dalam buku ini) adalah seorang kepala suku liar di Tibet. Dia bisa menjadi p Dalam mitologi Hindu di pelajaran sekolah, Siwa termasuk dalam Tri Murti yaitu tiga dewa tertinggi yang mempunyai tugas dan fungsi yang berbeda dalam kehidupan. Kisah kelahiran Siwa sang Mahadewa juga di kisahkan dalam berbagai versi. Saranku? Hapus semua bayangan itu sebelum membaca buku pertama dari Amish ini, karena yang disajikan di sini seperti campuran dari banyak versi dan menghasilkan sesuatu yang berbeda. Siwa (dalam buku ini) adalah seorang kepala suku liar di Tibet. Dia bisa menjadi pejuang yang tangguh, pria lembut yang suka menari dan melempar lawakan, atau seorang penghisap ganja yang berjuang melupakan trauma masa mudanya. Dia bisa tampil kalem tapi juga bisa menjadi pria yang penuh tekad. Siwa adalah manusia dengan karakter penuh layer. Walaupun berbeda dan awalnya kebingungan, aku menyukai perjalanan hidup Siwa dalam proses memenuhi takdir barunya. Kamu bisa mengintip masa lalunya, menikmati pemikiran uniknya bahkan perasaan terdalamnya untuk bisa memahami transformasi dari manusia biasa menjadi manusia yang didewakan. Ini lah poin penting di sini, konsep Mahadewa yang ada di mitologi jelas berbeda dengan konsep dari penulis (hal 368). \u201cA man becomes a Mahadev, only when he fights for good. A Mahadev is not born from his mother's womb. He is forged in the heat of battle, when he wages a war to destroy evil. Har Har Mahadev - All of us are Mahadev.\u201d Aku berusaha keras memahami konsep ini dan world building yang Amish ciptakan. Meluha tampak agak aneh dengan segala kemegahan dan kemajuannya tapi juga cukup kudet di beberapa hal lainnya. Storyline cerita ini segar karena berani menawarkan hal baru dari sebuah mitologi yang kita kenal. Alurnya lambat dan dipenuhi dengan narasi tentang banyak issue dan penjelasan tentang budaya Meluha, beberapa sistem di India dan misi utama Siwa. Gaya bercerita novel ini lugas dengan beberapa majas. Banter para karakternya terasa formal dan flat. Jujur aku merasa sulit untuk merasakan chemistry para karakternya. Aku membaca buku ini paralel dengan versi Inggrisnya jadi aku salut dengan team penerjemah yang sudah berjuang meluweskan gaya bercerita buku ini. Seratus dua puluh halaman terakhir adalah angin segar bagiku. Beberapa intrik dan strategi perang yang di tampilkan plus twist kejutan tentang Wangsa Chandra sangat menarik. Aku berharap di buku berikutnya, kisah ini akan lebih fokus, karakter Siwa lebih di perdalam, world builing lebih jelas dan beberapa plot hole yang membingungkan bisa di tambal. ...more Most books that I read, I either like or dislike, love or hate - but every now and then, there comes along a book that just plain exasperates me because I cannot decide which side of the fence I'm on. This first part of the best selling Shiva Trilogy is exactly that kind of book. On one hand, the idea of a fictionalized biography of Shiva the God as a man, is nothing short of genius. The author is brilliant in the way he blends mythology and history to tell the epic story of Shiva, a tribal warr Most books that I read, I either like or dislike, love or hate - but every now and then, there comes along a book that just plain exasperates me because I cannot decide which side of the fence I'm on. This first part of the best selling Shiva Trilogy is exactly that kind of book. On one hand, the idea of a fictionalized biography of Shiva the God as a man, is nothing short of genius. The author is brilliant in the way he blends mythology and history to tell the epic story of Shiva, a tribal warrior from Tibet whose destiny leads him to become the promised saviour of Meluha (the land of the Indus Valley civilization). Names that you would remember (vaguely) from mythology, Amar Chitra Katha and your grandmother's stories are fleshed out into real and mostly believable characters. Added to this, is the epic staging of this story in the age of the Indus Valley civilization when India was the torchbearer of knowledge, wealth and progress. Combined with the author's keen eye for detail and obvious passion for philosophy, we should have had an epic set of novels that would have turned India's rich mythology into a cracker of a trilogy. Some fans even liken this to the Harry Potter/LOTR series and much as I would like to believe that Indian writing in English has finally produced something of the sort, the amateurish writing of the author lets the book down badly. First up, the language is atrocious - apart from the fact that the author and the editor seem to have messed up frequently on the basics of English grammar, I'm just not ready to buy Shiva-the-Epic-Warrior using \"bullshit\" and \"ditto\" amongst a host of anachronistic (and unintentionally funny) words. Even more importantly, the character development is insanely shoddy. Epic characters like Sati, Daksha and Nandi are given so little time and attention that you hardly understand them, leave alone connect with them. Shiva's character is unsurprisingly the best written - he is strong, responsible and kind as well as immature, mischievous and impulsive. The biggest disappointment in the book is the Shiva - Sati love story that had immense tragic and romantic potential but was completely wasted. Overall, definitely worth a read but I'm unsure if this is worth a buy. I will definitely be reading the next book ('The Secret of the Nagas') though...in the hope that the writing gets better because I really do love the story and the setting. ...more The only advantage of a book with an interesting story line; but with poor writing is that you can finish it in 4-5 hours. This book is so poorly written that it reads like the author put together panels from an amar-chitra-katha comic. The only saving grace for the writing was that it was evenly immature all across the book. In the acknowledgments, the author thanks his editors for \"improving\" his english. Either the editors are in the wrong job or the author did not know any english when he wr The only advantage of a book with an interesting story line; but with poor writing is that you can finish it in 4-5 hours. This book is so poorly written that it reads like the author put together panels from an amar-chitra-katha comic. The only saving grace for the writing was that it was evenly immature all across the book. In the acknowledgments, the author thanks his editors for \"improving\" his english. Either the editors are in the wrong job or the author did not know any english when he wrote the manuscript. The charm of reading fantasy fiction/ historical fiction, is not only getting immersed in the story. Of course, we want to know what happens, but we are willing to invest more in getting immersed into the life in that era/ fantasy world. The great fantasy books stand out, because it marries an intriguing plot with descriptive prose. It mixes the story with events from the past, memories of characters, conversations amongst commoners etc which sets the stage for our hero, which provides the background for the events to follow. It gives the principal characters depth of personality, so that they are just not running from one scene to another. Immortals of Meluha does none of these except have an intriguing story line. No wonder, the author had to stop the book at a cliff-hanger. Tying up the plot in the first book to a logical end would mean that no-one would buy the second one. ...more Honestly , I loved the concept of this book ...!! :) When i first saw the cover and the name of the book , I assumed it will be more of mythological stories like a man having 100 kids or possess the ability of flying(!) or a child whose mother is a human being and his/her father is some type of God living in heaven(:O) ..!! Being an Agnostic , I seriously hate these sorts of myths ..! :( Except the somras thing , I think i liked this book very much..!! The author has done a brilliant job to depict Honestly , I loved the concept of this book ...!! :) When i first saw the cover and the name of the book , I assumed it will be more of mythological stories like a man having 100 kids or possess the ability of flying(!) or a child whose mother is a human being and his/her father is some type of God living in heaven(:O) ..!! Being an Agnostic , I seriously hate these sorts of myths ..! :( Except the somras thing , I think i liked this book very much..!! The author has done a brilliant job to depict Shiva as an ordinary man who has the abilities to become a mahadev ..!! The book has definitely kept me engrossed right till the very end ..!! :) The only drawback of this book is that, the language of this book is somewhat childish and it needs a bit improvement..!! Now eagerly waiting for the third installment 'Oath of Vayuputras'...! I think the 'Asuras' will come into action in the third book ..!! P.S - Thanxx to all those Goodreads frndzz who urged me to read this book ..!! ^_^ ...more Keyakinan adalah senjata yang sangat ampuh, Batara. Siwa sudah muak dengan pertempuran sukunya dengan suku-suku tetangga, terutama suku Pakrati yang ingin merebut wilayah mereka. Suatu hari, ada utusan dari negara Meluha yang mengajak Suku Guna untuk masuk menjadi bagian rakyat Meluha atau Wangsa Surya. Ide ini kemudian disetujui Siwa, dengan harapan seluruh anggota sukunya akan mendapat ketentraman, tanpa perlu was-was terhadap serangan suku lain lagi. Setelah pindah ke Meluha, Siwa kemudian men Keyakinan adalah senjata yang sangat ampuh, Batara. Siwa sudah muak dengan pertempuran sukunya dengan suku-suku tetangga, terutama suku Pakrati yang ingin merebut wilayah mereka. Suatu hari, ada utusan dari negara Meluha yang mengajak Suku Guna untuk masuk menjadi bagian rakyat Meluha atau Wangsa Surya. Ide ini kemudian disetujui Siwa, dengan harapan seluruh anggota sukunya akan mendapat ketentraman, tanpa perlu was-was terhadap serangan suku lain lagi. Setelah pindah ke Meluha, Siwa kemudian mengetahui bahwa sebenarnya ia adalah seorang yang telah lama dinanti-nanti oleh rakyat Meluha. Lehernya yang secara ajaib memancarkan warna Nila membuatnya langsung dikenali oleh para petinggi Wangsa Surya sebagai Sang Nilakantha yang diramalkan akan memimpin rakyat Wangsa Surya ke kemenangan melawan kejahatan. Akhir-akhir ini memang sering terjadi serangan terhadap kota-kota di Meluha, sehingga rakyat merasa terancam dan ketakutan. Berdasarkan laporan yang masuk, serangan itu merupakan serangan dari negara Wangsa Chandra dengan bantuan kaum Naga. Semenjak memahami keteraturan Meluha, Siwa mulai menyukai negara tersebut. Sehingga meski ia meragukan ramalan atas dirinya, ia tetap akan berusaha semampunya untuk membantu rakyat Meluha memerangi kejahatan bagaimanapun caranya. Di Meluha, Siwa berkenalan dengan Sati, putri dari Sang Maharaja Dhaksa. Wanita ini memiliki keterampilan bertarung yang belum pernah dilihat Siwa sebelumnya. Siwa juga mengagumi tingkah laku Sati serta kecantikannya. Pada dasarnya, Siwa jatuh cinta terhadap Sati. Sayangnya, ada peraturan yang membuat Siwa kesulitan untuk mendekati Sati. Selain itu, wanita itupun terkesan menjaga jarak terhadap keakraban dan keramahan yang coba Siwa tawarkan. Lalu bagaimana kisah Siwa selanjutnya? Mampukah ia menjalankan dharmanya sesuai dengan ramalan yang telah digariskan? Atau apakah kisah cintanya kelak akan berakhir tanpa harapan? Wahah, jujur saja, membaca novel ini benar-benar melampaui perkiraan saya. Saya menikmati alurnya, cara penulis bercerita, penokohannya, serta unsur mitologi dan sejarah di dalamnya. Semuanya terjalin dengan bahasa yang indah, detail yang tak berlebihan dan membuat saya selesai membacanya dalam dua hari. Ada banyak tokoh dalam cerita ini, tapi tentu saja Siwa adalah sosok yang menjadi sentra utama cerita sehingga akan saya ceritakan lagi lebih banyak tentangnya. Sebagai pemimpin dari Suku Guna, Siwa telah menunjukkan bakat alami sebagai seorang pengayom rakyatnya. Ia memperhatikan kepentingan banyak orang, ia ramah, serta bersahabat dengan banyak orang. Sehingga ketika ia muncul di Meluha dan beberapa orang meragukannya, sikap yang selalu Siwa tunjukkan tersbeut mampu meluluhkan keraguan mereka. Ia mau mendengar pendapat dan masukan orang lain, hatinya lembut dan mudah tersentuh namun keras jika menghadapi musuh. Apalagi kalau musuh tersebut melukai orang yang ia sayangi. Kuatnya unsur mitologi dalam buku ini jelas memberi kesegaran bagi pencinta genre tersebut. Jika mendengar atau membaca nama Siwa, tentu kita akan teringat dengan salah satu Dewa dalam agama Hindu, yaitu Dewa Siwa. Sebagai salah satu dari tiga dewa yang berkuasa, Dewa Siwa dikenal sebagai sang pencipta, pemelihara serta penghancur. Beberapa karakter dalam cerita memang terlihat ada yang mirip atau berhubungan dengan mitologi tersebut. Selain Siwa, ada juga Maharaja Dakhsa yang sama sama memiliki sifat arogan. Tapi karena ini adalah fiksi, tentu saja jalan ceritanya tak serupa. Jika Sati pada mitologi tidak direstui oleh ayahnya untuk menikah dengan Siwa, pada buku ini ia malah dicomblangi ayahnya untuk bisa bersama Siwa. Meski tentu saja hal tersebut menegaskan sifat keras kepala dan egois yang dimiliki oleh Dakhsa. Jika ada yang bertanya tanya, bukankah buku ini pernah diterjemahkan dan diterbitkan pula di Indonesia, maka jawaban saya adalah, iya. Buku ini pernah diterjemahkan dan diterbitkan di Indonesia sebelumnya, namun karena telah dilepas kembali dan mereka tidak akan menerbitkan seri lanjutannya, maka Javanica lah yang kemudian membeli lagi hak terjemahan dan menerbitkannya. Sejujurnya sih saya belum baca terjemahan sebelumnya, sehingga saya hanya bisa membandingkan covernya. Yah, saya memang lebih sering menjudge buku dari penampilan luarnya. Dan cover Siwa ini jauh lebih menggoda daripada Meluha (terjemahan sebelumnya). Terjemahannya juga apik, bahasanya indah dan pilihan katanya juga beragam. Alurnya memang agak lambat, tapi setiap detailnya membuat pembaca penasaran apa yang akan terjadi selanjutnya. Apalagi konflik dalam cerita tak hanya sekadar ramalan dan cinta Siwa, tetapi juga rasa percaya serta politik antarnegara. ...more Wow!Nice one,Mr Tripathi! When I got the book The Neelkanth arrives! When Shiva met Sati Sati falls for him They get married They win the war When they realize the Chandravanshis are not evil When I finished the book I have to read the next book now The story focuses on Shiva, a twenty-one year old warrior who is living with his tribesmen in what is currently Tibet. He comes across a group of Meluhans (Meluha is what is now Western India & Pakistan) who are searching for something or someone. Shiva\u2019s Wow!Nice one,Mr Tripathi! When I got the book The Neelkanth arrives! When Shiva met Sati Sati falls for him They get married They win the war When they realize the Chandravanshis are not evil When I finished the book I have to read the next book now The story focuses on Shiva, a twenty-one year old warrior who is living with his tribesmen in what is currently Tibet. He comes across a group of Meluhans (Meluha is what is now Western India & Pakistan) who are searching for something or someone. Shiva\u2019s tribe is called the Gunas and another tribe called the Pakratis is hunting them. Shiva detests the needless violence and decides to follow the Meluhan party back to their land. Things seem troublesome in Meluha wherein the Suryavanshi kings (Descendants of the Sun) are the rulers and the people live by Suryavanshi standards. They are facing friction from their eastern neighbors, the land of Swadeep ruled by Chandravanshis (Descendants of the moon) as both sides are clueless in regards to the drying up of the Saraswati River and hence blame each other for their differences. Shiva then meets Sati,the emperor's daughter and falls in love with her..and you can read the rest :P Loved the book!I loved the plot but I don't know why something was missing.I loved the way he used the names..like Sati,Shiva,Nandi etc.The author is really creative..I just loved the way he talked about Ram and Lord Rudra and he made it easy to digest.Nice climax ,by the way.I loved the way he described the city of Meluha.I didn't like the way they swore..I mean.who said \"Damn it!\" in 1900 BC?I hated those parts..and during the war it was just boring at times you know..only that part..overall,the book was just beautiful..It reached my expectations!loved it :)It made understanding Hindu mythology easy! you guys should read it..totally! ...more Well I have to confess - I didn't even finish the first 100 pages. So maybe it is presumptious to write a review. This book is a national bestseller here in India and I was fascinated to read it with the rich storytelling in Hinduism of myths and legends. Why have I given up? It is one of the most poorly written novels I have read in years. The dialogue is appalling, unreal, character development clunky. A great novel draws you into to its world. When the dialogue is so poor, full of modern clic Well I have to confess - I didn't even finish the first 100 pages. So maybe it is presumptious to write a review. This book is a national bestseller here in India and I was fascinated to read it with the rich storytelling in Hinduism of myths and legends. Why have I given up? It is one of the most poorly written novels I have read in years. The dialogue is appalling, unreal, character development clunky. A great novel draws you into to its world. When the dialogue is so poor, full of modern cliches when it is meant to be set 4000 years ago, it clashes horribly and you get angrier and angrier with the clumsy author. A world I was quite interested in discovering and escaping into kept on dissolving as the rug was pulled from under my feet. I lacked the emotional investment to stick with it - so I gave up! ...more", "Title": "The Immortals of Meluha"},
