{"Comments": "My head hurts from crying but other than that,<---M> so very good!! Loved this book! Granted</---M>, I went into this book annoyed with Cashore's anti-marriage, pro-casual-sex message in Graceling, but the book never got interesting enough to overcome those messages. Okay, I didn't finish it, but if 222 pages into it, I'm bored and nearly shaking with rage at Cashore for using a YA story as a thinly veiled piece of propaganda, I doubt the end of the book will redeem itself. This isn't even YA, it's adult high fantasy, but these days publishers market everything as YA, and so it's sold Granted, I went into this book annoyed with Cashore's anti-marriage, pro-casual-sex message in Graceling, but the book never got interesting enough to overcome those messages. Okay, I didn't finish it, but if 222 pages into it, I'm bored and nearly shaking with rage at Cashore for using a YA story as a thinly veiled piece of propaganda, I doubt the end of the book will redeem itself. This isn't even YA, it's adult high fantasy, but these days publishers market everything as YA, and so it's sold and read as YA where Cashore forces her stories around some unhealthy and harmful messages instead of letting her characters and story grow organically. This world full of monsters so beautiful people throw themselves at the monsters in lust and the monsters can control everyone's mind to make them do whatever they want was not a world I wanted to believe in. Plus, <+++>Fire</+++> is way too much like Katsa, but less interesting, more whiny, and the whole society more promiscuous. The book is congested with: friends with benefits (incidentally an 17-year-old with a guy several years older than her whom she doesn't even like and knows he's sleeping with every other girl in the country), a whole society sleeping around and fathering illegitimate children all over the place, lots of uncontrolled lust, people and animals throwing themselves at Katsa <+++>Fire</+++> because she's on her period, rape (from all that uncontrolled lust), murder, that whole village plunder and destroy stuff, and the happy mention of her father saying that just because Katsa Fire is beautiful he would never act out on that lust because he loves her, so throw a little incest into the mix. I don't know of a single, healthy relationship in the whole book, at least the part I got through. And the very worst of all of this is these things have nothing to do with the storyline. The story was so slow developing and the characters one-dimensional that never gained my sympathy. So I'm making up my own ending, which I've hidden under a spoiler tag since apparently it's pretty closer: (view spoiler) [that prince guy, Brigan, who hated Katsa, I mean Fire, with a passion and then all of sudden by the next meeting he's silently brooding over her, obviously in lust but she's too stupid to realize she lusts after him, yeah they're going to start sleeping together and then Fire can have a child without having a child and Cashore will justify why she absolutely cannot get married. But that would make Fire look cruel to dump Archer when he's openly sleeping with every other girl in the country so we're going to have to kill him off. This is wartime, we could do it there (although it'd be more likely that he dies from an STD), no, there's that whole unanswered question about king Leck in the prologue (the only good part of the story) so there's got to be a showdown with Fire and Leck and maybe all of Archer's testosterone can get him in trouble there.<---F> Yeah, that seems more predictable</---F>. (hide spoiler) ] It doesn't really matter to me. The characters and story didn't grab my attention; it's the messages that did. ...more Unlike Graceling , Fire doesn't get better upon rereading. The core of my issues with it remains the same, specifically Cashore's nontraditional approach to marriage and women's empowerment. I'll elaborate on it later. But besides that, this time this book is just boring. I think I was pretty generous to give Fire 3.5 stars 2 years ago. I now feel it deserves at least 1 star less. Too much navel-gazing, too much contemplating and whining and crying on Fire's part without enough action and romance Unlike Graceling , Fire doesn't get better upon rereading. The core of my issues with it remains the same, specifically Cashore's nontraditional approach to marriage and women's empowerment. I'll elaborate on it later. But besides that, this time this book is just boring. I think I was pretty generous to give Fire 3.5 stars 2 years ago. I now feel it deserves at least 1 star less. Too much navel-gazing, too much contemplating and whining and crying on Fire's part without enough action and romance to balance things out, too much talk of periods and cramps. Plus, the nature of Fire's power is such that even the most climactic part of the novel comes off as an over-complicated non-event. I still think there is an improvement in Cashore's writing in terms of world-building. But, after reading Megan Whalen Turner 's novels that were, undoubtedly, an inspiration to Cashore, Fire pales in comparison. The intrigues, the politics of it are only weak shadows of those of Attolia. And now onto the main concerns. I think it's certainly brave of an author to create novels where heroines are different from the so-called norm. Cashore writes young women craving full independence, undesiring of long-term partners and children. That's fine. But I can't help but be disappointed in how all women are portrayed in Fire . They all are not exactly immoral, but definitely lacking in scruples, dignity and caution. They cheat, the sleep with everyone around, they get pregnant when they have resources not to, they don't care if they are cheated on, they, to me, seem to think they don't deserve love, monogamy or at least respect. The men are no better, they are indiscriminately cheaters, philanderers and rapists. I'll be hard-pressed to find even one healthy, committed relationship between a man and a woman in this book, a relationship where participants are equal partners in all decisions, including those concerning procreation. Call me old-fashioned, but I believe a man should have a say in the decisions about child-bearing as well. As a result, Fire is full to the brim with illegitimate children (literally, almost everyone in the book is a bastard or a result of a rape) and excessive amount of casual, adulterous and forced sex. It's a soap opera! And it's boring and would have benefited from some tightening up. I don't think I'll be reading Fire again. ...more Fire is a monster. Monsters in her homeland are creatures of brilliant colors, each with abilities, that feed on humans and animals (there are even monster insects!) and each other. They have a tremendous attraction for human beings, one of extreme passion which leads to murder, clutching, or attack, depending on the human, which is why Fire has led much of her life isolated in the house of her hated monster father, who died several years ago. Her only friends are Archer and his father. And then Fire is a monster. Monsters in her homeland are creatures of brilliant colors, each with abilities, that feed on humans and animals (there are even monster insects!) and each other. They have a tremendous attraction for human beings, one of extreme passion which leads to murder, clutching, or attack, depending on the human, which is why Fire has led much of her life isolated in the house of her hated monster father, who died several years ago. Her only friends are Archer and his father. And then everything goes pear-shaped. A strange bowman with an empty head shoots Archer. Fire brings him in, but he escapes, and is murdered in turn. The realm is in chaos, and the crown is calling on Fire to use her mind-probing skills to find out what spies are withholding. Fire doesn't want to do it--she feels she must live her life in expiation for her father's existence and her own--but she must go to the capital to face the issue herself. It's an incredibly complex book. Fire is in the position of holding off one brother who is driven to possessive passion by her monster looks, while another brother distrusts her and she cannot tell what the third thinks of her at all. She's in an ethical tangle over entering the minds of others, but she has to do it to survive, or people would tear her to pieces. She has her own dark secrets, for someone who has lived in the country all her life. And her best friend, the only one who wants nothing from her, is a horse named Small. Cashore's writing is more polished than GRACELING, and Fire is a very different person from Katsa. The book is REALLY good. Reading it made me very, very happy! ...more Disappointing. Having read and loved Graceling, I was greatly anticipating Fire and was unfortunately very let down. Fire never gripped me, I never came to care about her, or even like her much. There are a lot of things about this book that bothered me. The character of Archer, the friend with benefits, seems out of place in a YA novel. There was an awful lot of casual sex and making babies and confused parentage. And, seriously, she has to walk around with an armed guard because she's having her Disappointing. Having read and loved Graceling, I was greatly anticipating Fire and was unfortunately very let down. Fire never gripped me, I never came to care about her, or even like her much. There are a lot of things about this book that bothered me. The character of Archer, the friend with benefits, seems out of place in a YA novel. There was an awful lot of casual sex and making babies and confused parentage. And, seriously, she has to walk around with an armed guard because she's having her period? All of that info went nowhere, it didn't add to the story and wasn't neccessary to the plot. Fire's relationship with Brigan didn't ring true. It didn't have anything to base it on other than he was kind to her and she couldn't get in his head. Where have I read that before? I didn't quite understand the whole monster world. Where did they come from? There wasn't any real tension to the book, nothing she was striving toward or away from, it all just sort of sits there, nothing really memorable about the whole story. It seems like a lot of lead up to nothing. The whole plot with the archers coming after her and Leck kidnapping her fizzled. I can't even recommend this one to fans of Graceling, sorry to say. ...more fortunately, jenn awwww yeeaahhhh is literally half my size. go on - look at my shoulders - i am like a mighty moose to her delicate deer: there is no way she can make good on that threat. so i am just going to say it: i liked this book less than i liked graceling . bring it, tiny creature. and from a critical standpoint, there is nothing wrong with this book. it has a fine story arc, good character development, a good array of both descriptive and action sequences - i would say that the pacing is a fortunately, jenn awwww yeeaahhhh is literally half my size. go on - look at my shoulders - i am like a mighty moose to her delicate deer: there is no way she can make good on that threat. so i am just going to say it: i liked this book less than i liked graceling . bring it, tiny creature. and from a critical standpoint, there is nothing wrong with this book. it has a fine story arc, good character development, a good array of both descriptive and action sequences - i would say that the pacing is a little slower than in graceling and can get bogged down in a bit too much detail, but that's not necessarily a deal-breaker, although unusual for YA lit. so my gripe is woefully lowbrow. ready? i just could never get into the character . the idea of mind control is awesome, and this book makes important moral points about its use, but i don't want to read YA philosophy books, i wanna read about girl power and magic and murderous justice! (although, for the teens, also good points about pregnancy - if you can't live with the results, take precautions. pleeeease stop making babies - the teen mom phenomenon where girls are getting knocked up just to be on teevee is gross) but it doesn't have the kickass factor of graceling - this is all chilly analytical restraint and good judgment and guardedness. it is like watching someone play chess. you have to respect the skill involved, but really, i would rather be watching http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFV0Uv... i find her emotional responses bland - the man she loves beds every woman in his path, and she shrugs it off without jealousy. not only can i not relate to this, but i cannot respect it. but then, vengeance runs deep in me. and i don't need to fall in love with my characters - i am all about appreciating the antihero, but i have to be able, at least, to respect them and their path. self-sacrifice is great and all, but you're a superfine babe with the power of mind control - seriously. after a point, the mind control becomes irrelevant, right?? she needs no additional powers. but this is all sound und fury und nonsense. for whatever reason, i just was not able to get into this book, despite several really cool scenes. part of it was trying to fit this world into the previous book: so this world has \"monsters\" but not \"gracelings\" but why?? and how do they really differ? part of it was the grotesque nature of all the male characters: grope-y king, slutty archer, sadist dad, reading the minds of a million would-be rapists. part of it was the stifling of a beautiful, powerful butterfly under this overdeveloped guilt for things not her fault. flaunt that shit - you aren't your daddy just because you are gorgeous. good on you for being a clara barton there for a while, but take down that hair, dollface. drop it like it's hot etc etc. do we need another sassy gay friend intervention? so - yeah - not at all painful to read, but it is no threat to my still-monogamous relationship with Ashfall . now i run away, having learned lessons from goliath.... ...more So. Where do I begin? Perhaps I should begin with my rating. One star seems harsh, truly, but goodreads describes that rating as, \"Didn't like it.\" And that is an accurate description, for I simply didn't like the book. Thus I'm sticking with one star. And now for the book itself: I was hyped for the day I would actually get my hands on it and presumably storm through the whole thing in six hours, as I had done with Graceling . This anticipation was fueled by the raving reviews (on goodreads and e So. Where do I begin? Perhaps I should begin with my rating. One star seems harsh, truly, but goodreads describes that rating as, \"Didn't like it.\" And that is an accurate description, for I simply didn't like the book. Thus I'm sticking with one star. And now for the book itself: I was hyped for the day I would actually get my hands on it and presumably storm through the whole thing in six hours, as I had done with Graceling . This anticipation was fueled by the raving reviews (on goodreads and elsewhere) which called it EVEN BETTER than it's companion, DIFFERENT, BETTER WRITTEN, STUNNING, BOUND TO \"WOW\" YOU - Well, all I can do is wonder if others had read this book with their eyes closed. Please, all ye who read this rant and disagree with me, don't think of me as being accusatory; it's just that, plowing my way through the book, that was one of the thoughts which ammounted to my overall disbelief. Different? Fire is a mirror image of Graceling . Same plot. Same characters. Same nuances. Except, it seems, it is Graceling with the good sucked out of it. Katsa, in the first book, was spirited and interesting. (With her temper, she reminds me somewhat of Thirrin of the Icemark - possibly the best, strongest, and most genuine female protagonist I have come to encounter. Kudos, Mr. Hill, for everything.)But Katsa did have some sort of ridiculous internal battles along the way, which I placently accepted, so long as there were heads to bash and throats to slit and all that general badassery was involved. Take away the ability to kill ten men with a toothpick in under thirty seconds, and you have Fire. Brigan was a sort of mofified version of Po, Archer was Giddon, and so on and so forth. (Leck, incidentally, was completely unnecessary. So he gave us a prologue and killed some people. Great.) It mollifies me at the amount of connections I can make between the two books, and this shows me that Cashore is limited in her ability to weave characters, because eventually they all start reflecting one another. I had expected for Fire, the most imporant persona in the book, to be a sort of Katsa, if not having immense strength in body, then in spirit. SHE. IS. NOT. A. STRONG. LEAD. Even if she were not a lead, she would still be a completely useless and annoying brat. She whines, she mopes. She cries. (Not that crying is a bad thing, but she cries for absolutely no purpose.) She seems to hardly do anything herself, and constantly rely on other characters to help her. She has no pride, she allows herself to be waited on by a team of armored bodyguards, and cannot survive alone - such a pity, because that was what made Katsa so admirable. Perhaps Cashore intended them to be different, simply by making Fire weak? But she is not. Where did the author intend Fire to go, whom was she trying to impact? And Cashore had tried to impact her readers, I really think she tried. Throughout Fire's epiphanies (usually after she ends up storming out on some character on another - she does that a lot), Cashore tries to send across messages. But the thing is, a) they're so naive that it's not worth the trouble, Cashore, or b) they never get to the reader at all, because Fire is a sort of pitfall in the many heroines of literature. What was I supposed to have learned, that one shouldn't be ashamed of one's parentage? That it really can't be helped that society will see a person as someone else, no matter how different their heart and intentions are? \"Be yourself\" - is that what is put across here? Fire discovers that she can use her nature for good in the end, she really can! Well, jolly good for her. Fire can't get over death; she can't get over truth. By the end I was screaming, GET UP, WOMAN. GET A GRIP. AND GO SAVE THE WORLD. Really, I was so desperate to see her take control for once and ride out to meet the looming army with a battle standard in hand, the dawn glinting on her silver helm. I was that much saddened. But moral lessons aside, I was extremely irritated - make it vexed, by some point - about some of the technicalities. The sex lives of all the different characters accounted for, oh, let's say, half the plot. Most of the book was spent running around discovering who slept with whom, who sired whom, and who killed their respective fathers and how. I mean, come on, the whole \"I am your father,\" \"REALLY?!\" thing has gotten so old, and Cashore drops that bombshell a few times in the book. Incidentally, yes, Cashore, Fire's great secret I figured out ten chapters before you finally gave it away. It ran like a great big midday TV soap opera. There was too much sleeping around, too much desire to sleep around, and inability to stop oneself from sleeping around. Also in the realm of irritating lay Fire and her seriously annoying menstrual necessities, the whole impregnation and contraception aspect, and too much talk of having children, not having children, and being pregnant. Countless times I had smacked the book against my forehead, howling WHY IS THIS NECESSARY TO THE PROGRESSION OF THE PLOT? Beneath all these different feels lurks a sort of hideous impression about what Cashore may have implied in this book. She asks, somewhere towards the middle, \"What is the point of a woman monster?\" and it seems to me she answers it. If she truly believes something like that, then I should like to take the book itself and smack someone with it, preferrably her. Of course, I could be completely wrong, so I'll keep this suspicion to myself. But it seemed to me as though the book, which was supposed to be feminist, went way, way, way in the other direction. The writing, by the way, was not that good. Not much description, and not much unique brilliance. It does not shine. An exception I made for the fiery persona in Graceling , but here it only underlines the Fire 's flaws. Signing off, I'll now take my leave. ...more Okay, I don't often write reviews, because as an author I always feel weird giving a critical opinion of other authors' work. I think it's because I sort of feel like other authors are my coworkers, all of us working and writing to make people fall in love with reading, so who am I to publicly say what is or isn't right? But I can't help myself in this case. I feel rather as though I fell as inexplicably and inextricably under this book's spell as its characters fall under Fire's. I had no chanc Okay, I don't often write reviews, because as an author I always feel weird giving a critical opinion of other authors' work. I think it's because I sort of feel like other authors are my coworkers, all of us working and writing to make people fall in love with reading, so who am I to publicly say what is or isn't right? But I can't help myself in this case. I feel rather as though I fell as inexplicably and inextricably under this book's spell as its characters fall under Fire's. I had no chance against its beauty! And now I have to shout my love from the rooftops. To be honest, for the first few chapters I rolled my eyes every five minutes, because seriously, who gets away with writing about a heroine who is objectively the most beautiful woman in the world, one of a kind, loved and desired by everyone who meets her, blessed with fiery red hair and gifts for music and archery and horseback riding, and--to top it off--able to control the thoughts and feelings of those around her? It seemed like the epitome of Mary-Sue-ness. Yet, I kept reading. I told myself it was out of devotion to the first book, but really, I couldn't have stopped myself. The writing is beautiful, and Fire herself is at the same time so damaged and SO strong, that I fell completely head over heels. Finishing this book was heart-breaking, truly--and it's been ages since I met characters I was so loathe to leave when the book ended. I honestly spent the entire last 100 pages of the book just sobbing wildly off and on until I finished. I swore up and down when I finished reading GRACELING that it was impossible for me to like the sequels better. <---A>Kristin Cashore</---A> has made a liar out of me. I wish there was a sixth star for me to give this book. And if someone doesn't give me BITTERBLUE pretty much IMMEDIATELY, I may have to start taking hostages. ...more Boring. Predictable. Vague. Sooo bad and Sooo boring! The only thing that I liked was the connection with the first book. However, even though we have the same world, we have such different characters! We have a long and dark introduction. A little boy with a lot of power and little responsibilities showing how cruel he can be in his world. I thought it would be one of those books that play with your mind but it was basically just the introduction. Meh. Then we get to the main heroine, Fire. She Boring. Predictable. Vague. Sooo bad and Sooo boring! The only thing that I liked was the connection with the first book. However, even though we have the same world, we have such different characters! We have a long and dark introduction. A little boy with a lot of power and little responsibilities showing how cruel he can be in his world. I thought it would be one of those books that play with your mind but it was basically just the introduction. Meh. Then we get to the main heroine, Fire. She has all this power and she refuses to use it because she is good and yadayada. Which is okay when you are not in life-death situations. So she has a bunch of guards protecting her because, oh, she is such a fragile woman. So, you are expecting me to say that she finds her inner powerful self and I went all \"you go girl!\"? Well, not here. The story was basically about her boring life. She spends more than half of the book having periods and it would be okay when we got somewhere with it, but it never added anything to the plot. She was annoying and weak. Everybody loved or hated her because of her looks and she had a friend with benefit that was more like a rabbit, leaving kids everywhere. But wait, she liked a guy that WAS NEVER THERE!!! The love interest here was so plain and uninteresting. (view spoiler) [ Oh wait, he had a daughter there to be fire's company. THAT made him interesting - to her. I think that she wasn't really in love with him to begin with. She just wanted a kid without having to be hers and used him. It just makes more sense for me. (hide spoiler) ] One day he goes out because the kingdom is at war and when he comes back she \"discovers\" that she likes him. But when he asks her if she wants to go home with him, she just wants to stay in her room awau from him... What a lovely couple. There were some tentative plot twists which I found just so predictable. Some were just there to make Fire have emotions and more letters on the page. It wasn't so irrelevant and I really think it could be better developed. The writing style was awesome but the story was just lacking too much for my taste. A lot described people and places that just passed and never appeared again. It felt so unnecessary. Most of the pages were irrelevant to the story and were just there to make the book bigger. I was always waiting for something to happen. The other thing that annoyed me was the marriage factor and how relationships are treated. Not only in this book but in the first one too. Everybody slept with everybody. They all cheated. They were all bastards. I don't remember one real happy couple who didn't slept with somebody else! There's no background to make the characters believe that marriage is a bad thing but it's treated as something really bad that I just felt like the author wanted to push her beliefs over me. To sum up, it was too boring. I just got to the end because I wanted to know if something interesting was finally going to happen. Well, it didn't. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Not bad. Not as good as Graceling , but interesting enough. Probably a 2 1/2 star effort. I had originally given it three, but was so worked up by the time I was done typing the rant below that I had to change it (please consider that when looking at the rating). Will probably appeal just fine to the same crowd that liked Graceling - unless they become bothered by the same things I am. And good Lord, was I bothered. Considering how excited most people seem to be by this book my difficulties with Not bad. Not as good as Graceling , but interesting enough. Probably a 2 1/2 star effort. I had originally given it three, but was so worked up by the time I was done typing the rant below that I had to change it (please consider that when looking at the rating). Will probably appeal just fine to the same crowd that liked Graceling - unless they become bothered by the same things I am. And good Lord, was I bothered. Considering how excited most people seem to be by this book my difficulties with the book are probably largely personal. I've got a lot of beefs with this book. I'm not sure exactly what my expectations were for this one anymore, but this book definitely didn't meet them. And there were a number of problems, described below in no particular order. First of all: There are WAY too many similarities to be found to Graceling in terms of characterization. Both books feature fairly obnoxious female main characters who a) possess some sort of strange supernatural gift that they really don't want and that stigmatizes them from the rest of society, b) are completely absorbed in thier own problems, c) have refused to marry, and d) have an incredibly convenient connection to the local royal family that they aren't particularly proud of. The difference is that in Graceling, Katsa was fiesty and interesting. Fire, while somewhat interesting (if you like soap operas, see below) just agrivated me. Both books also feature really excellent male romantic interests who are way more engaging from start to finish than the main character and who also happen to be youngest princes who have great fighting skill but no interest in ruling. It really bothers me that when it comes down to it, the two central characters of both books are just variants of each other. Doesn't show a lot of growth at all on Cashore's part. Speaking of not-so-stellar writing, allow me to complain about Fire's structure. Just as in Graceling, this book takes about 200+ pages to introduce all of the major players and their back stories. Then we break into the main plot. When we finally get to the war that we've been building up to for the first 300+ pages (well, actually just the middle 100 pages since the first 200 were all stupid introduction) it's hardly touched on at all except as a tool for Fire to a) figure out that she really does love Brigan and b) be incredibly, obnoxiously whiny about how awful war is. In Fire, many of the chapters follow a certain pattern: a) Fire recalls some memory of her awful father, which b) somehow relates to something else happening to her in the present, which often leads to, c) a starteling revelation. While not a bad formula to use, it gets old after a few hundred pages. But back to obnoxious similarities between Fire and Graceling. Despite the ages of the main characters in both books, they aren't really teens. They're adults in their teen years. This didn't bother me so much in Graceling when I first read it, but it's so painful in Fire. Both Katsa and Fire are WAY too knowledgable about the world around them and they're making such adult decisions with such maturity and it never once seems out of place for the setting. Well, at least until the book's final 150 pages or so, when plenty of splendid melodramatic angsty scenes appear in which Fire whines about how awful the world is and then learns her lesson by talking to and/or observing another (more adult!) character who of course knows better. While reading Fire, I wondered if it wasn't for Graceling, if Fire would have been marketed as an adult book - with teen appeal for sure, but its tone and characterization have a much more \"adult book\" feel. My biggest problem with this book, and a big part of the reason why I feel it was so adult: I was incredibly bothered by the way that sex was handled in Fire. ALL of the sexual power was given to men and women were their toys who apparently can't say no 9 out of 10 times when a man wants them. It angered to no end that Fire was so victimized because \"oh, poor me, I'm so beautiful that men fall all over themselves for me, which I hate, but I'm just a woman so what even can I do about it? It would be different if I was a man...\" - over and over and over again. It got old. Just like Katsa and Po, Fire and Archer became lovers the moment their relationship turned romantic. Ditto for Fire and Brigan. Archer did nothing but piss me off with his womanizing, and it angered me to no end that Fire knew about it while she was still sleeping with him, and put up with it. Even Clara, the spymaster-princess and easily the strongest female character in the book, falls for that stupid man's spell and ends up knocked up. Lord. I'm also incredibly peeved that while Fire is 17, every man she sleeps with is a good five years older than her - and they're easily among the youngest of the adult characters. I realize that this is fantasy and such age differences and the maturity level of certain 17-year-old characters is typical of traditional fantasy, but it drives me nuts. My final rant: The book is a total soap opera. Really, the plot is driven more by characters than by plot, and even then not so much by character growth. It's more about who's really who's father than anything else. Entertaining enough I guess, and probably one of the only reasons I kept reading after 200 pages, but not the tone I wanted after so much immediate action in Graceling. So yeah...the book's fine if you like soap operas, where pretty much each of my other beefs with this book would be acceptable. A huge disappointment for me though. And it made me dislike Graceling more because of all of the stupid similarities that taint my memories of the first book. Damn. ...more Having read and loved Graceling, Fire by Kristin Cashore had a lot to live up to. I should have known that it would exceed my expectations and then some, quite possibly trumping its predecessor. Fire is the last remaining human monster living in a war torn kingdom called the Dells. Once filled with beauty and wealth, the Dells have fallen into ruin by the hands of her monster father, Cansrel and his human conduit, King Nax. Though both have been dead for several years, the kingdom remains in a vu Having read and loved Graceling, Fire by Kristin Cashore had a lot to live up to. I should have known that it would exceed my expectations and then some, quite possibly trumping its predecessor. Fire is the last remaining human monster living in a war torn kingdom called the Dells. Once filled with beauty and wealth, the Dells have fallen into ruin by the hands of her monster father, Cansrel and his human conduit, King Nax. Though both have been dead for several years, the kingdom remains in a vulnerable state, as neighboring kings are attempting to conquer the lands and steal the crown from young King Nash and his commander brother, Brigan. As a monster, Fire has the ability to read and control minds; however, due to her fear of becoming the monster her father was, she has spent years denying her power and has attempted to disguise who she is to protect both herself and those around her. When Fire is attacked by a mindless poacher, Fire travels to Queen Roen in search of answers and aid, but a fateful meeting puts her in the direct path of the very two people she has tried her best to avoid, Nash and Brigan. Knowing all the power Fire posses and the potential that power could have in saving his kingdom, Nash calls on her to use her power for the greater good. But when does power become destructive? And who can tell when the lines have become blurred? What follows is a beautiful story about embracing who you are and conquering your fears. I found Fire\u2019s world to be well drawn, expertly woven and colorfully written. Each character is a delicious shade of gray, possessing both light and dark tendencies; much like we do in life and Cashore does a remarkable job of creating a realistic royal family in a fantastical setting. Fire was an extraordinarily heroine that I found very relatable in spite of her monster nature. A story of love and loss, hope and fear, forgiveness and passion, Fire provides a wondrous journey through a magical land that you won\u2019t soon forget. ...more Me after reading this: This was so much better than Graceling. Is it even possible to love all the characters in a book. I laugh, cried, fell in love, fell out of love, hated, stop hating, became understanding and never wanted this wonderful read to end. I can't wait to receive my copy of Bitterblue tomorrow. As soon as I get it I'm going to start it. If you're a fan of Graceling, this companion novel set over the mountains to the east of the seven kingdoms will satisfy. The main narrative starring Fire (a half-human/half-monster young woman) is framed by the story of a particular young Graceling who has the ability to control others completely... you'll recognize the future King Leck immediately. Fire has a similar talent, but because of her monster blood she can actually sense what people are thinking rather than simply order them around. H If you're a fan of Graceling, this companion novel set over the mountains to the east of the seven kingdoms will satisfy. The main narrative starring Fire (a half-human/half-monster young woman) is framed by the story of a particular young Graceling who has the ability to control others completely... you'll recognize the future King Leck immediately. Fire has a similar talent, but because of her monster blood she can actually sense what people are thinking rather than simply order them around. Her distinctive monster hair is all colors of red and orange, mesmerizing and enraging people in turns in this strange land so near and yet so far removed from the kingdoms we grew to know so well in Graceling. Fire's story is wrapped around her changing relationship with childhood friend (now lover) Archer and an impending war in which she must navigate various intrigues, and, eventually, face Leck again. This book has a LOT more romance/violence/shades of sexuality than I remembered in Graceling. Plenty of interpersonal drama will make this especially appealing to readers who might not otherwise crave high fantasy. Just as Graceling drew fans of Tamora Pierce and her strong female characters, Fire will definitely do the same. Cashore is wonderful at world-building and shows off her talents to best advantage in this follow-up which will be one of the most-requested books of 2009. ...more When an author's second novel far surpasses her already critically acclaimed debut novel, you know there\u2019s something special going on. Kristin Cashore is such an author, and FIRE is such a book. Not since Robin McKinley has an author written so convincingly of a politically charged fantasy world. The protagonist, Fire, has the cursed gift of absolute beauty and attractiveness, and many times during the course of the book, she brings up the question, \u201cHow does gender factor into the reaction to be When an author's second novel far surpasses her already critically acclaimed debut novel, you know there\u2019s something special going on. Kristin Cashore is such an author, and FIRE is such a book. Not since Robin McKinley has an author written so convincingly of a politically charged fantasy world. The protagonist, Fire, has the cursed gift of absolute beauty and attractiveness, and many times during the course of the book, she brings up the question, \u201cHow does gender factor into the reaction to beauty?\u201d For Fire constantly encounters men who want to do unspeakable things to her at the very sight of her, while her equally attractive father had people falling at his feet, eager to do his bidding. Call it fantasy for sure, but FIRE contains a lot of gender politics that could make for interesting discussions, even in the classroom. Kristin Cashore deftly unfolds Fire\u2019s past into her present story, which helps readers slowly understand and appreciate her judgments. Even so, FIRE is an intensely emotional read, especially at the end. Its ability to affect me so strongly is one of the things I like best about it, though. The romance between Fire and Brigan is less developed than the one between Katsa and Po in GRACELING, but Kristin gives depth to all the characters, not simply the protagonist and her love interest, and I\u2019d much rather have three-dimensionality in all my characters than in just the two main ones. It\u2019s difficult to say this for sure right now, but if you had to read only one hard fantasy YA book this year, FIRE just might be the one. It\u2019s blend of fantasy, romance, political intrigue, and feminism will appeal to all fantasy lovers, and then some. ...more Content note : Yeah, I tried. Sorry. Incoherent rambling ahead. Seriously, this series has such an astonishing effect on me that the words just keep on coming. SOMEONE STAHP THEM. I know I initially gave this four stars, but it's been a good seven hours since I finished Fire and I still have the feeling that I want to dive back into the world and experience it all over again. It's more than that. Not only am I plagued by something I can only call \"book nostalgia\", I've replayed the story a few tim Content note : Yeah, I tried. Sorry. Incoherent rambling ahead. Seriously, this series has such an astonishing effect on me that the words just keep on coming. SOMEONE STAHP THEM. I know I initially gave this four stars, but it's been a good seven hours since I finished Fire and I still have the feeling that I want to dive back into the world and experience it all over again. It's more than that. Not only am I plagued by something I can only call \"book nostalgia\", I've replayed the story a few times in my head and, of course, overanalysed it to pieces. It's my special talent. This actually helped me figuring out those damned first 70 pages. I know I've complained about them a lot (and if you followed my updates, so do you :D), but they're rather essential, both to the story itself as to Fire 's place in the Graceling Realms series. So, the final verdict is 4.5 stars and Fire goes on my \"favourites\" shelf. I was scared to read this, maybe even more so than when I started Graceling . It's always a double feeling for me when I absolutely adored the first book in a series, which was definitely the case here. In addition, most of the reviewers I trust were not all that impressed by this second instalment, but I guess I've found a way to distinguish myself. HURRAY. IT'S A PARADE. Let me just say that Fire is very different from Graceling , and I'm glad that I was a bit apprehensive going into it. Nevertheless, this book played an evil trick on my very fragile emotions. Often I was laughing so hard that I was glad no one could hear me. (I have a monstrous laugh. Many people can attest to this. It's one of my charms.) Then only a few sentences further all my happiness plummeted and I found my eyes getting misty. Oh man, I'm usually not so dramatic when reading, but this series is just playing me. THIS DOESN'T HAPPEN TO ME. I'm so bad with emoting that even my father, who's basically the embodiment of indifference, says that I'm cold. I was shocked at my own responsiveness. But you know what because this series DESERVES it. I'm not going to deny that Fire has tedious and boring moments and reads like Graceling Realms: the telenovella in places, but I didn't mind. More importantly, I think it was kind of inevitable with the set-up we have. This is where the fearsome first 70 pages come in. The prologue starts strong. It's not super relevant to the story, especially not the first half of it, but it connects Fire to Graceling . In this respect, Fire is a sort of prequel to Graceling , but I'd be more inclined to call it a companion novel. Chronologically speaking, it does indeed take place before the events of Graceling , but except for one character, there's not much of a connection between the two. That doesn't mean that there aren't similarities, which is what pissed me off at first. Once again, we have a young girl who is lonely. She lives in a male-dominated world where mother figures are dead and/or absent, fathers have an abusive streak and try to control the heroine, and this time there's even a possessive boyfriend thrown into the mix. It's only this afternoon that I realised the importance of these parallels. Because while Katsa and Fire grew up under roughly the same circumstances, they are certainly not the same character. I can applaud this on so many levels. This is exactly how you prevent stereotyping. Attention all male NA love interests with tragic pasts: LEARN FROM THIS. Fire was a difficult character for me to connect with at first. In the mythology of this series, she's a monster. Monsters are animals (including humans) with unnatural colouring and they possess mental powers. The result is, she's objectively beautiful and people try to use her both for this beauty and her mind control. She's constantly harassed because of it and has decided to cover her looks as best as she can so that she'll stay out of harm's way. I definitely struggled with these chapters. They made me very uncomfortable, but it was obvious that that's the intention. There's this moment where Fire can't get from the stables to her room without being attacked multiple times by men who want to kiss, threaten, hurt or kill her, and often even all these things together. I honestly cried while reading that. She really does stand up for herself, pushes them away, tries to change their mind with her powers, but can you imagine how exhausting and denigrating it must be to have to do this all the time ? This is one of the most accurate depictions of rape culture I've ever seen in fiction. Sure, you can read this and think: \"Oh my god girl, stop whining that you're too beautiful.\" but that's missing the point quite a bit. Fire can't help that she's beautiful, but somehow, because she's seen as something desirable , people (read: mostly men) around her feel like they have a right to claim her. Oh look, sexualisation of exotic women. That never happens in our progressive times. OH WAIT. Of course, Cashore wouldn't be the phenomenal writer that she is, if she didn't have her characters growing into themselves and accepting what they have and don't have. The character development is quite stunning to experience. No, I don't know what it is to be objectively beautiful and universally desirable, but you can transpose these ideas to almost anything, whether it's race, gender, class, sexuality, ... and it's still relatable to how the dominant power thinks they can have or control you. I have one note on sexuality though. Part of the monster mythology is that no matter whether a monster procreates with another monster or a regular animal of its sort, the offspring will always be a new monster. Fire gets her make-up from her father. What bothered me was that she was told (and later complained about it herself) that her beauty was harder to bear because she was a woman. If monsters are objectively beautiful, it seems to me that gender doesn't really play a role when it comes to their desirability. However, it can also be said that male monsters mainly have to shoulder the excessive admiration of normal people, while women are immediately in danger of being assaulted. So again, this is more a story of how our culture perceives pretty things and what they can do with it than the woeful tale of the pretty thing. I also have to say that the standards aren't 100% heteronormative when it comes to this aspect. Me likey the ambiguity. Then there's this one other thing that might turn some readers off with this concept: monsters are attracted by the scent blood, which means Fire has a monthly problem with protecting herself from monster attacks. This isn't just mentioned once, it's often a factor for crucial plot events. While some may find this thoroughly disgusting, I kind of loved the consistency Cashore displayed in this aspect. I mean, it takes MOXIE to stick with such an element. It's obvious that it inconveniences Fire, but the people around her show some decent understanding, empathise with her and try to help her. Seriously, the next time some guy is like \"Eeeww, I don't want to know anything about cycles!\" or worse \"Stop being so angry. You must be on your period.\" I'm throwing (view spoiler) [ gently , because I don't want to damage my copy too much. (hide spoiler) ] this book at his head. No, better idea: from now on, this is required reading for all assholes who think it's funny to make it into a joke. Then after the first quarter, we have court intrigue. It's fascinating. It's addictive. It's ... And just like these animals (view spoiler) [ Okay, technically they're alpacas. JUST IGNORE IT. (hide spoiler) ] do every time I look at them, it cracked me the hell up. There are so many fantastic one-liners and the dialogue is just delightful. One of the best things about Fire is that it really focuses on the characters. Graceling was mainly about Katsa and Po, and then Raffin, Leck and Bitterblue, but Fire features a group of so many amazing characters that I can't even say which one I loved most. The romance plot was super adorable in this one. My copy mentions an \"unexpected romance\" in its blurb, but it's pretty obvious who the lucky guy will be. Brigan and Fire begin at completely opposite ends, but they take the time and effort to get to know and understand each other and they just aaaaarghh. Brigan is a character in his own right, which makes him that much more interesting and appealing as a love interest. I'm so happy that in this novel, too, the couple takes their time and are friends first. However, where Katsa and Po were a bit too soon in the full-on love zone for me, Fire and Brigan make up the more realistic portrayal of love. They remind me of Margaret Hale and John Thornton from North and South , in that they just dance around each other for too long but when they finally admit and exercise (heh) their feelings, it's better than Matt Bomer covered in Half Baked Alaska. You're welcome for the mental image. It's your reward for making it to the end of this monstrous review. I'm nothing if not loyal to the concept of the novel at hand. In conclusion: this series isn't just slowly winning my heart, it will have to break out all awful tropes and plot lines to make me even consider being disappointed. I immediately started Bitterblue because seriously: food, water, sleep, hygiene, social life, food again, I'm so conflicted to finish because I foresee a lot of ugly-crying in the very near future. I'm aware that these books are not for everyone, but it has come to a point where I don't even care if I'm the only one who likes them, because they are SO GOOD. Cashore has a knack for addressing serious problems in engaging stories and I just want her to be immortal, so that she can always keep writing them. This series is sometimes accidentally categorised as \"The Seven Realms Series\" and I know it may sound silly, but that gives me hope that there might be seven book (at least!), because that would make me happier than Castiel binging on hamburgers on Valentine's Day.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Kristin Cashore has this way of taking a rough stereotype of a woman and still talking about her in a full, human, contradictory way that such a stereotype would feel if you lived in it. She simplifies the telling and complexifies heroine. In Graceling , she tells the story of a badass warrior woman, a survivor, an Ellen Ripley. In Fire , she tells the story of a beautiful trophy girlfriend, an aspiring homemaker, a super model who loves babies, a monster combination of Joan Harris and vampire Bel Kristin Cashore has this way of taking a rough stereotype of a woman and still talking about her in a full, human, contradictory way that such a stereotype would feel if you lived in it. She simplifies the telling and complexifies heroine. In Graceling , she tells the story of a badass warrior woman, a survivor, an Ellen Ripley. In Fire , she tells the story of a beautiful trophy girlfriend, an aspiring homemaker, a super model who loves babies, a monster combination of Joan Harris and vampire Bella Swan. Our girl, Fire, is from a race of what the story cleverly calls \u201cmonsters,\u201d and I like that both Fire and her society adopt that word as accurate. Her body is exactly what I would think of as a monster. I approve. Briefly, for if you don't already know, in this story, our people live in a land where monsters are these sort of magical predators who crave blood and flesh, but are so beautiful and colorful that they mesmerize normal humans and animals just by their looks. They have mind-control powers, and when they are in human form, the mind control powers are stronger because, you know, humans are brainy. Fire got her name because she is a ginger, but a monster ginger, so her hair looks like fire, and she has to wrap it up because when dudes see it, they basically try to rape her and when animals monsters see it, they try to eat her. Hair is such a problem. Now I am going to talk about my ruminations on the conflict between what our bodies are and what our essences, or souls, or whatever, are. Sometimes, I sit around and think about how disconnected I feel as a person from the way my body looks, regardless of the specifics of how I look at that particular moment \u2013 fat or thin; white, red, brown, black, or purple hair; strong or weak. Or maybe I feel disconnected from the way people react to my body; it is difficult to say for sure. It makes me think that before we are born, we are floating in the sky as some kind of disembodied essence, and we choose our bodies through a series of escalating dares. I wonder what made me choose this one. Say, before you were born, your essence had these cards laid out on the poker table of body choices: you could be a gorgeous black woman in the 1950s in the South; the youngest, scrawniest brother in a family full of white coal miners; a rich, white sorority girl; or the son of the first Korean-American President of the United States. You know, say, that you, your essence, is a light, delicate thing, something that hates conflict and loves hot cocoa and hearth fires. Do you go with the safe bet or give yourself a challenge? Does that obnoxious other soul in the corner antagonize you into choosing the black woman in the 1950s just because it doesn\u2019t think you could take it? Or do you go with the possibly safer, but more depressing, sorority girl? Could your delicacy and conflict-aversion handle living inside a man\u2019s body in a society that shames delicate men? Whatever you decide, you\u2019re all, \u201cCHALLENGE ACCEPTED!\u201d and you fly off into the horrors and joys of the body you chose. But, the rules are that once you\u2019re there, you can\u2019t remember how you got there in the first place. You have to fight that battle blind because otherwise the battle isn\u2019t testing your instincts and you\u2019re not as invested in the game. Or maybe there\u2019s some bureaucrat in the sky with a giant spreadsheet. I don\u2019t know. Fire made me think about who we are in essence and the way our bodies shape us because I think Cashore articulately describes the powerlessness of beauty and how, while we might aspire to that, it might not be something we really want. Fire's horrifying monster beauty and her horrifying X-Woman skill of mind control, and the shame she felt over those parts of herself were interesting. On the one hand, there is a little bit of a poor-little-rich-girl about the story that I think Graceling also had to some extent, but it doesn\u2019t really dwell in it. There\u2019s so much straight action and Fire is so heroic that it only nudges against the border of maudlin. I don\u2019t think it really crosses over, or at least not often. But, I think that it illustrates how having a body, whether it is the body of a monster or not, is hard. Dealing with social reactions to a body is hard. But, it is worth it. I think girls often have a sort of out-of-body experience of someone assuming a lot about our personalities from our appearances. Probably men experience that, too, though I wonder how similar the experiences are. I have dimples, so people often don\u2019t expect me to be as much of an asshole as I am and feel extra betrayed by my bitchiness. Fire is kind of like that, too, in that her personality is not what the stories told people to expect from that body. Regardless of what the false expectation is, because it is probably different for us all, there is still that sense of being out of place in a body. I think it is an identifiable female sentiment, and maybe identifiable because there is so much media propaganda about female bodies being wrong. But, at the same time, I have this instinctual sense that I am lucky to have a body at all, and that I should take care of it, and I get the feeling that most people have at least a sliver of that same instinct. Anyway, I found this beautiful. I liked these people and animals. I liked Fire and I also liked the use of fire as imagery and its association with mourning and cleansing. At times, I found the light use of somewhat courtly language awkward, but that\u2019s not a big deal when action is going down. I\u2019m bumping this up to a five-star rating because I think it is ballsy to write a sequel that is only loosely connected to the first, and I thought that was a well-executed ballsy move. Addressing the stereotype of a beautiful, affectionate woman was smart after having told the story of a survivor in the first book. I want to be Kristin Cashore\u2019s friend. She is a bold woman. ...more Set across the mountains from the Seven Kingdom in the Dells Kristin Cashore has created another amazing world with another beautiful set of characters. The Dells do not have Gracelings, but they do have \u201cmonsters.\u201d Monsters are brightly colored and extremely beautiful versions of their normal counterparts. They have mental abilities that allow them to communicate with and control non-monsters. ( Think bright green mice, pale blue spotted leopards, and beautiful florescent birds.) Fire is the las Set across the mountains from the Seven Kingdom in the Dells Kristin Cashore has created another amazing world with another beautiful set of characters. The Dells do not have Gracelings, but they do have \u201cmonsters.\u201d Monsters are brightly colored and extremely beautiful versions of their normal counterparts. They have mental abilities that allow them to communicate with and control non-monsters. ( Think bright green mice, pale blue spotted leopards, and beautiful florescent birds.) Fire is the last remaining human monster. She has flaming pink, red, orange, and gold hair and a face of unparalleled beauty. She lives in the north of the Dells with Archer (her best friend and sometimes lover) and the rest of her adoptive family. Her existence is simple. She teaches music, hunts with Archer, and does her best to stay alive. Fire is hunted by other monsters that would love to eat her and is persecuted by humans who do not understand her. War is brewing within the Dells. King Nash and his brother, Prince Brigan, are training their army to fight off their encroaching neighbors. Nash recognizes that Fire\u2019s mental capabilities would be an asset to the army and could tip the balance in their favor. Fire reluctantly agrees. Fire becomes an interrogator for the King and helps Nash and Brigan plot to put down the usurpers. Fire\u2019s very appearance provokes strong emotion. In some it\u2019s hatred and others it\u2019s infatuation. Brigan is completely closed off to her at first, but he is controlled and not unfeeling. Respect and not infatuation change their relationship into something more. They naturally evolve as enemies become allies, as allies become friends, and as friends become lovers. There\u2019s a lot I\u2019m not telling, because I cannot summarize this book into a decent length. There\u2019s just too much plot, world building, and character development. It\u2019s just too rich to condense properly. I am a huge Graceling fan so there was no question that I\u2019d love Fire . And I do love it as much as Graceling . I love seeing the similarities in worlds and writing, but the difference between the 7 Kingdoms & the Dells is fascinating. There are themes in Fire that are reminiscent of Graceling \u2013 independence, open-mindedness, & freedom. Fire is nothing like Katsa, but she lives by the same standards as Katsa did and Brigan lives by the same standards as Po. That\u2019s what reminds me that they\u2019re in the same world, because if it weren\u2019t for that (and the appearance of Leck - evil jerk) I\u2019d never know it. It\u2019s different, but not different. You should read it and see. The plot is intricate from beginning to end. Cashore has an excellent way of dragging out the falling climax to tie everything together. She masterfully loops the plot back around to have a very satisfactory resolution. She also knows how to open with the action and the exposition is gradually worked into the rising action in an unobtrusive way. The writing is just damn good. There is so much right with Fire it\u2019s hard to pick out what\u2019s wrong. If I had to pick out one thing (which I hate doing, but I always do, so I will here) is that the plot seems to have social/political agenda relevant to this day and age. It was also in Graceling , but less obvious. Maybe it\u2019s more obvious in Fire because I was looking for it. I don\u2019t mind, because I totally back her agenda, but I think it will put off some readers. Also, there is a lot of violence towards animals and monster animals. Fire is in no way a happy-feely book, so be prepared. In conclusion, I loved it. 5 stars. It might not be for everyone, but it\u2019s definitely for me. Bring on the feminist fantasy YA! PS - For a man\u2019s perspective my husband is currently reading Fire . When he gives his opinion I\u2019ll let you know. UPDATE 5/11/09 - Chris thinks that Fire has the same \"formula\" as Graceling and those who enjoyed something ground breaking in Graceling will feel as if it's more of the same in Fire. I tend to agree. ...more When people ask me what my favorite book is I tell them about Fire. This is one of the books that made me love fantasy and reading in general. When Fire feels pain, I feel her pain. When she feels happiness, I feel happy for her. I absolutely love her. I understand her motives, her reactions and I really cannot get enough of her. The story is full of mystery, very complicated relationships, war, mind control, love, loss and so much more. I basically feel all of the feels for this book and this tr When people ask me what my favorite book is I tell them about Fire. This is one of the books that made me love fantasy and reading in general. When Fire feels pain, I feel her pain. When she feels happiness, I feel happy for her. I absolutely love her. I understand her motives, her reactions and I really cannot get enough of her. The story is full of mystery, very complicated relationships, war, mind control, love, loss and so much more. I basically feel all of the feels for this book and this trilogy. Thank you Kristin Cashore for creating and writing this series. Overall: 5 stars!! 10 stars!!! All the stars!!!!! Recommendation: Isn't it obvious. ...more 2,5 stars Strong female lead my ass. \u201cI don't want to love you if you're only going to die.\u201d \u201cRoen snorted. \"You two have the strangest relationship in the Dells.\" Archer smiled slightly. \"She won't consent to make it a marriage.\" \"I can't imagine what's stopping her. I don't suppose you've considered being less munificent with your love?\" \"Would you marry me, Fire, if I slept in no one's bed but yours?\" He knew the answer to that, but it didn't hurt to remind him. \"No, and I should find my bed 2,5 stars Strong female lead my ass. \u201cI don't want to love you if you're only going to die.\u201d \u201cRoen snorted. \"You two have the strangest relationship in the Dells.\" Archer smiled slightly. \"She won't consent to make it a marriage.\" \"I can't imagine what's stopping her. I don't suppose you've considered being less munificent with your love?\" \"Would you marry me, Fire, if I slept in no one's bed but yours?\" He knew the answer to that, but it didn't hurt to remind him. \"No, and I should find my bed quite cramped.\u201d Ooookay miss double standards. I'm not saying that this isn't true since Archer loves to sleep with everyone (the whole fucking point of his character).Isn't it so amazing to show how he sleeps with two girls at the same time,while he's in love with Fire,and they both get pregnant? Ahh,just the story I was hoping for. It's not only that her beauty,which is mentioned in every single page,attracts everyone and makes them either kill themselves or you know,rape her/kill her ( ?? ),it's also that her blood, especially while she's on her period ,which is,naturally,something we all want to know about,attracts other monsters. Yippee fucking yay. \u201cIt made Fire so angry, the thought of such a medicine, a violence done to herself to stop her from creating anything like herself. And what was the purpose of these eyes, this impossible face, the softness and the curves of this body, the strength of this mind; what was the point, if none of the men who desired her were to give her any babies, and all it ever brought her was grief? What was the purpose of a woman monster?\u201d \u201cI'm a thousand years old,' Fire said, 'just like you.' \"Hmm,\" Brigan said. He didn't ask her what she meant, which was for the best, because she wasn't exactly sure. \u201cBeauty has rights that plainness never will.\u201d Three reasons I'm giving this book 2,5 stars: -World-building -Brigan & Garan. - \u201cYour horse is named Small.\" \"Yes. \"Mine is named Big.\" ...more It has been YEARS since I read this book. I read it back in 2009 (or maybe early 2010?), before I was blogging, when I was a wee little teenager. I'm now a blogger/reviewer, and I've been trying to track down the ARCs for Cashore's books. I got Bitterblue's (it's the most recent, and many people still had their ARCs of Bitterblue), but Fire and Graceling ARCs are incredibly rare and difficult to find. BUT. BEHOLD. *crying* I just need to find Graceling's ARC! I say \"just need to\" like it's a simpl It has been YEARS since I read this book. I read it back in 2009 (or maybe early 2010?), before I was blogging, when I was a wee little teenager. I'm now a blogger/reviewer, and I've been trying to track down the ARCs for Cashore's books. I got Bitterblue's (it's the most recent, and many people still had their ARCs of Bitterblue), but Fire and Graceling ARCs are incredibly rare and difficult to find. BUT. BEHOLD. *crying* I just need to find Graceling's ARC! I say \"just need to\" like it's a simple task. SIGH. I read this book four years ago (ish), before I was reviewing/blogging. Still my all-time favorite book. If you asked me to recommend ONE book, or save ONE book from a fire, or keep ONE book of mine forever, it would be this one. :) ...more Fire is a monster in the land of the Dells. Not your typical monster, mind you. She is more beautiful than any human and more lethal and dangerous than any weapon. Monsters have powers over the mind and body, the ability to manipulate others to their will but Fire is different. She cares too much for others to hurt them as her monster father did. The last thing she wants is to use the people she cares for like puppets. Briggan doesn't trust Fire from the moment he meets her. She's a monster and Fire is a monster in the land of the Dells. Not your typical monster, mind you. She is more beautiful than any human and more lethal and dangerous than any weapon. Monsters have powers over the mind and body, the ability to manipulate others to their will but Fire is different. She cares too much for others to hurt them as her monster father did. The last thing she wants is to use the people she cares for like puppets. Briggan doesn't trust Fire from the moment he meets her. She's a monster and nothing more. Her beauty is blinding, her father's legacy well-known, she is trouble and a dangerous distraction. She's an animal and a monster in every sense of the word and is not to be trusted. But when the two team up for a common cause, Fire and Briggan can't help but get to know one another, not for the stubborn creatures they assume one another to be, but for the strong and brave warriors that they discover one another to truly be. Having read Graceling prior to reading Fire I was ready and willing to be introduced to even more mysterious and thought-provoking creatures. Fire however met and exceeded all of my expectations. The romance that conspires and the fondness that Kristin Cashore provokes for all of the characters is simply amazing. I enjoyed every moment of reading it. Side note: Briggan.... *swoons* ...more \"Dark, dark my light, and darker my desire. My soul, like some heat-maddened summer fly, keeps buzzing at the sill. Which I is I?\" ---Theodore Roethke, In A Dark Time I believe that quote reflects Fire's inner turmoil with her ability quite well. There's a war on the horizon, and Fire's the last remaining human Monster known to the Dellian people, and so, because of her ability to alter and manipulate minds, she's called to interrogate prisoners by the Dellians' leader, King Nash. But Fire's afraid \"Dark, dark my light, and darker my desire. My soul, like some heat-maddened summer fly, keeps buzzing at the sill. Which I is I?\" ---Theodore Roethke, In A Dark Time I believe that quote reflects Fire's inner turmoil with her ability quite well. There's a war on the horizon, and Fire's the last remaining human Monster known to the Dellian people, and so, because of her ability to alter and manipulate minds, she's called to interrogate prisoners by the Dellians' leader, King Nash. But Fire's afraid of becoming like her father; Cansrel was a harsh, sadistic man who cared about no one but his daughter. And Fire isn't willing to trust that she won't end up like him, if in fact she chooses to use her power in such a way that King Nash is asking of her. But with so much at stake, what choice does she have? Although I wouldn't go straight to saying that Fire's another favorite of mine, I very much enjoyed her character in this. Ms. Cashore has a way of writing her characters, be they male or female, and making them so that you can't help but like them, if not love them. Against all odds, I really liked Fire as a heroine. I say against all odds because, despite her instant appeal to all who encounter her (view spoiler) [and despite the fact that I wasn't crazy to find out that Fire had an intimate relationship with another woman when she was younger. I don't mean any offense to anyone reading this that may be into that sort of thing, or that may be a lesbian themselves, that's just not something that I like in a heroine. (This of course is derived from the fact that I have a little obsession with anything man/male/boy/anyone whom you can apply this symbol to.) (hide spoiler) ] , a theme that seems to be growing among authors (and one I'm not very fond of), I really liked her character. My interest in her grew over the course of the novel, and by the end I had a great sense of respect and admiration for her. Brigan has a sort of roguish charm and aloofness about him that makes him seem attractive and fasincating. Brigan's character slowly evolves during the course of the novel, and by the end of Fire you're completely in his snare. I'd say the most disappointing thing about this novel is its lack of romance. Fire and Brigan don't have nearly enough page time together. But the moments that they did have were enjoyable, however few and far between. It isn't really until the last quarter of Fire when their relationship starts to heat up and become something more than just friends conversing. Initially, Brigan isn't very fond of Fire and all of her Monster glory. But he has good reason: Fire's father, Cansrel, controlled and manipulated Brigan's father, Nax, while he was the king of the Dells. This eventually led to Nax's death. Between this and the fact that Brigan knows the harsh and potentially evil nature all Monsters have, he isn't willing to show Fire any kindness upon first meeting her, let alone fall down in adoration and lust, as most who come into contact with Fire do. But it's actually not very far into the novel before Brigan begins treating Fire with respect and even as if she were a friend or ally of his. This, of course, given Fire's inhuman beauty and allure, isn't exactly the kind of attention Fire is used to getting from men or from anyone, for that matter. But Fire enjoys having someone be kind to her without expecting something more from her. And Brigan's kindness and friendship eventually causes Fire to fall for him. And I think Brigan's eventual declaration of love is done perfectly, and not a moment too soon: FAVORITE QUOTE: \"The moment I began to love you was the moment when you saw your fiddle smashed on the ground. And you turned away from me and cried against your horse. Your saddness is one of the things that makes you beautiful to me, don't you see that?\" See? Ms. Cashore's writting really is amazing. Here's another quote I'd like to share with you: \"We're going to win this war, you know.\" he said. \"Now that our armies are together. But the world doesn't care who wins. It'll go on spinning. No matter how many people are slaughtered tomorrow. No matter if you and I are slaughtered.\" After a moment, he added, \"I almost wish it wouldn't, if we aren't allowed to go on spinning with it.\" Fire actually has another love interest in this: Archer. (For those who're not into the love-triangle, like me, you don't have to worry: it's not one of those annoying types of love triangles, it's well played out IMO.) I liked his character a great deal, actually, even though he's a complete rake and may not have his priorities straight, he still came off as likable and a nice edition to the plot. (view spoiler) [And it was very sad when he died. I couldn't help but feel sorry for Fire in her situation. I can't imagine being not only friends but lovers with someone only to have them die after being so close to them for so long. (hide spoiler) ] However, I do think more time could've been spent developing Fire and Brigan's relationship, rather than dealing with Fire and Archer's. One thing about Kristin Cashore, she's not afraid to write about grief and sorrow in her novels. You'll be going along reading and, usually towards the end, she'll drop some sort of unexpected literary bomb on you. (view spoiler) [Besides Archer's death, I thought that Fire losing two of her fingers seemed like a daring thing to write into the story. Much like Po's blindness in Graceling . (hide spoiler) ] Most authors seem to stray away from anything they think might offend, anger, or disappoint their readers. Not Ms. Cashore. A few words on the audio itself: Xanthe Elbrick, the narrator of Fire , does a rather amazing job of differentiating her own voice from the plethora of characters featured in Fire . This woman is talented, I tell you! She truly deserves an award for her narrative in this. Her talent is definitely of a higher caliber than most in her profession. Taking everything into consideration I'd have to say that I really liked Fire , albeit not as much as Graceling , and I'm very much looking forward to reading Bitterblue when it releases in September of this year. (It's set to have Po and Katsa in it! *happy dance*) ...more If a book could be considered a non-event, this would be it. Kristin Cashore writes a long, boring book, about a strange monster human woman that is so unnaturally beautiful, men try to kill each other to get at her. This prequel to Fire is more of a stand alone book though only one character from Graceling is present. The book starts out promisingly enough but really doesn't go anywhere, as the prologue sets the stage for a promising read, but too soon gets lost in long narratives of the strange If a book could be considered a non-event, this would be it. Kristin Cashore writes a long, boring book, about a strange monster human woman that is so unnaturally beautiful, men try to kill each other to get at her. This prequel to Fire is more of a stand alone book though only one character from Graceling is present. The book starts out promisingly enough but really doesn't go anywhere, as the prologue sets the stage for a promising read, but too soon gets lost in long narratives of the strange world Fire lives in. You see, it's not just a place that has people and animals. There are monster-humans, monster-mice, monster cats, and monster-raptors. Yes, there are regular mice, cats and humans as well but why the monster mice haven't done away with the regular mice by now is beyond me. Fire lives a quiet, hum-drum life until an archer is caught on her property after he nearly kills her. She spends the next 100 pages getting hurt by various animals and people, and I began to worry that Fire was going to be a damsel in distress. Thankfully, that is not the case and things begin to pick up once her injuries have healed. Unfortunately, it goes downhill again when she travels to the kings palace. The king, of course, is bowled over by her beauty and can't control himself around her while his brother, Brigan, stays away from her at all cost because she has the power to control people's thoughts. Fire, feels like a prisoner because her beauty puts her in constant peril of men and monster-raptors who smell her out particularly when she is having her period. Yes, that's just what I said. There is basically no plot except that the kingdom is under threat of being attacked by upstarts. Brigan is always coming and going, spying to gather information for the king. It seems unlikely, therefore, that Fire will begin a romance with Brigan, but that is just what happens. There is no climax, however, and this story just seems to putter along. The story picks up its pace when the Graceling character appears, but his quick exit deflates the story once more. The ending was uneventful and you are left wondering what kind of future is in store for Fire and Brigan. The supporting characters' storylines seem to get more of a wrap-up than Fire. I give this book 2 and a half stars because though Cashore did have some interesting ideas, it seemed to lack clear direction. ...more I was very nervous to pick up this really early preview edition of Kristin Cashore's newest novel. Graceling was so wonderful, a prequel made me hesitant, just as all second novels and sequels do. Ha! Oh ye of little faith. Kristin Cashore is an absolute gift to our world. Fire is EVEN BETTER than Graceling. I just kept feeling so grateful to even be reading such incredible work. The characters are amazing. The pacing is perfect. Again, I felt like Cashore carefully selected each word she wanted I was very nervous to pick up this really early preview edition of Kristin Cashore's newest novel. Graceling was so wonderful, a prequel made me hesitant, just as all second novels and sequels do. Ha! Oh ye of little faith. Kristin Cashore is an absolute gift to our world. Fire is EVEN BETTER than Graceling. I just kept feeling so grateful to even be reading such incredible work. The characters are amazing. The pacing is perfect. Again, I felt like Cashore carefully selected each word she wanted to use before putting a sentence out for the world (although I do have to gripe about the use of \"irregardless\" somewhere in there). I didn't want to hear anybody else's opinion of Fire before I read it and I certainly didn't want to hear about the plot, so I'm not going to give anything away. Just know that it is not a disappointment in any way and I can't wait to see what Cashore comes up with next. ...more Baaaaaaaaaaa! Meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeh! My slightly long intro ***Book Review down there somewhere*** Okay I didn't like it and I just wanna say that I read Graceling before this and I really like Graceling. After I read it in fact I consider reading Fire next but because of the bad reviews I've read here in goodreads I decided to maybe not read it and I'll just wait for Bitterblue, the third book to come out. However when Graceling became our Monthly book Challenge in our group here, most of the g Baaaaaaaaaaa! Meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeh! My slightly long intro ***Book Review down there somewhere*** Okay I didn't like it and I just wanna say that I read Graceling before this and I really like Graceling. After I read it in fact I consider reading Fire next but because of the bad reviews I've read here in goodreads I decided to maybe not read it and I'll just wait for Bitterblue, the third book to come out. However when Graceling became our Monthly book Challenge in our group here, most of the group members decided to read Fire since they really like Graceling too and one of my friend here Jeneroso send me a message if we can read this book together as reading buddies. And since I have already a copy and, you know, I like the previous book, so...why not? So hooray I read it and finished it, finally, but truth is...the book bored me (run away from Cashore's fans). Yeah sorry for all those who love the book, this review might be offensive. So here it goes... My Problems with Fire aka why oh why the 1 star rating? :( ***Contains SPOILERS!!!*** Problem # 1 The book is immensely boring and it's plot less. So okay maybe it has a plot or rather too many subplots and maybe the problem with it is it's confusing or maybe too complicated. The stories are not really structured, the pacing was off and it really drags. Problem # 2 The relationship of Fire and Archer was another of those Cashore's Anti-Marriage and Pro-Sex Scheme. So these two are not really married and they are like friends and then one time they decided to be \"fubus\" or fucking buddies or friends but with benefits. I just find it really odd and Graceling btw was also like this. Katsa and Po decided to not marry because Katsa didn't want to but she said it's okay for them to have sex even if they're not married, something like that. So Sex...Yey! :), Marriage...Ney! :(. I'm thinking because her two books are like this maybe Bitterblue have this formula, of course. And I'm not really happy if she'll write it that way. Problem # 3 Fire. My problem with Fire is that she's always guarded. Like I think she has more than five or six guards, I can't really recall the numbers. But I think that the author wanted me to think that Fire was a strong female character like Katsa but in this story it doesn't work that way because she's always protected and guarded. So I'm not really impressed with her character. Truth is I find her character very weak. Problem # 4 Archer, the Casual Sex, the Herbs Contraceptives, and the Unwanted Pregnancies. So people pardon my french, but I really wanted to say this, Archer is such an arse. As I mentioned before, Archer and Fire are fubus but then Fire sort of break up with Archer. Then Archer became heartbroken and he decided to have sex with Mila and Clara instead (Really, Archer? What a d***!). Fire actually learned about it and she's sort of okay with it, I think. So here's the other part of the story. Fire was actually taking up herbs that prevented her from being pregnant and eventually she became somewhat infertile because of it and she can't produce a child anymore. (It took me a while to understand why Fire need to take contraceptives but it was explained that she need to take it because her father thought that another Human Monster like Fire will be a problem.) She also give the herbs to Mila and Clara because she knew about Archer having sex with them. However the contraceptives or rather the herbs failed. Clara didn't take them up because of the side effects like she didn't want to be nauseated, so of course she didn't take the herbs. Mila on the other hand forget to ask Fire about extra herbs because she have taken them already up and I think she missed a dose something like that. Eventually they both became pregnant. My Final Thoughts I don't know what's wrong with it or maybe I was the one who's wrong, but I simply didn't care. It's like I read it for the sake of finishing it. Just because I love Cashore and Graceling. But really Fire failed, it was boring and somewhat I wanted to think that maybe minus the casual sex maybe I would like it more but no. Maybe next time, I still think that Cashore can write but she really should stay away from the Third Person POV (you're better with the First Person :)) and the Anti-Marriage Thingy (which is getting really disturbing). ...more Fire is dangerous. And terrifyingly beautiful. And broken. The only human monster left in the Dells, she is determined never to repeat the horrors her father committed. But the Dells are like Fire. They too are dangerous and beautiful and broken. And if the kingdom is to survive, it will need her. And the new king who threatens her with his lust, the former leaders whose lies have yet to be shared, and the young general who has more reason to hate Fire than anyone else in the Dells. And may be th Fire is dangerous. And terrifyingly beautiful. And broken. The only human monster left in the Dells, she is determined never to repeat the horrors her father committed. But the Dells are like Fire. They too are dangerous and beautiful and broken. And if the kingdom is to survive, it will need her. And the new king who threatens her with his lust, the former leaders whose lies have yet to be shared, and the young general who has more reason to hate Fire than anyone else in the Dells. And may be the only one who truly knows her. Mmmm. Passion and secrets and a very HUMAN heroine. One of those fantasies where the danger is real, and therefore, you care. ...more 2.5 stars So much hand-wringing and so little story. \"Don't look at me, I'm too beautiful!\" Ugh. Such a disappointment after GRACELING. Young adult fantasy about a young woman so beautiful, the sight of her opens up people\u2019s minds to her control. No, wait, come back! I know , okay, but just hang on a sec. I have to confess that I wasn\u2019t all that enamored of this books\u2019 loose companion, Graceling . In the way that it had been so talked up to me that it was a deeper disappointment than normal to find it was pleasing but not shattering. But this book? I am officially on the Kristin Cashore bandwagon now. It wasn\u2019t the plot: Cashore clea Young adult fantasy about a young woman so beautiful, the sight of her opens up people\u2019s minds to her control. No, wait, come back! I know , okay, but just hang on a sec. I have to confess that I wasn\u2019t all that enamored of this books\u2019 loose companion, Graceling . In the way that it had been so talked up to me that it was a deeper disappointment than normal to find it was pleasing but not shattering. But this book? I am officially on the Kristin Cashore bandwagon now. It wasn\u2019t the plot: Cashore clearly constructs her books around the internal, personal narrative, which is great, but it means her political plots feel somewhat artificial and mechanistic. And it wasn\u2019t the romance, which was pleasant, but ultimately anticlimactic. No, here\u2019s what got me. Reading this book was wonderful because it was so . . . vocabulary is lacking. It was really safe . In a good way! Existentially, I mean. I wasn\u2019t reading with that hunched, wary expectation of an imminent kick to the psyche from a burst of genderfail or disabilityfail. Sometimes being a critically conscious reader is like having a severe allergy to glutan; either you never eat a goddamn thing you want, or you spend most of your time miserable anyway because the toxic stuff is in fucking everything. But Kristin Cashore had this one. I trusted her. This is a book about rape culture, when it comes right down to it, and responsibility and violence and self-determination. Big stuff to take on, and big stuff to land so cleanly. I do have to pause to do something I almost never do, which is rag on other people\u2019s critical reactions. I ran across a few separate discussions of this book where women complained that they thought Cashore was telling young women that feminism means not having children (a couple of these speakers blithely equated childfree with assuming male roles, which is freighted with so many terrible unconscious problematic assumptions that I\u2019m just not going to touch it here). And I just \u2013 okay. Two things. First, I firmly believe that this is a really . . . the word I want isn\u2019t wrong. The word I want is \u201cunuseful.\u201d It\u2019s an unuseful way to approach a book to assume that it is a pulpit from which the author is delivering social prescriptions through the vehicle of plot. I mean, authors do, obviously. But starting from the assumption that an author is telling a story first with the understanding that \u201cmessage\u201d exists in the intersection of reader and text. Starting there and working out makes you look like a prescriptive twit far less often than ascribing every perceived social comment straight to the author. Also, it makes life a lot more pleasant. Er, anyway. My actual point was I think imputing that message to this book is quite wrongheaded. This is not a book about how independent women decide not to have children; it\u2019s a book about how a number of young women make a series of choices about their reproductive and romantic identities, because they are smart or afraid or backed into a corner. This is a book about the choosing, not the act. And you bet I think this is a way of thinking about gender that I want young women to absorb. ...more I really loved this book! Those who are looking for characters in common with Graceling may be disappointed. The only crossover is a villain! But it is interesting to see how Cashore handles two heroines with very different talents in Fire and Katsa. Cashore never condescends. I adore it when writers have so fully fleshed out their fantastical worlds that they are able to build a novel around an entire previously unseen section in an entirely new era! This is the second installment in the Graceling series and, set a few decades before the events that occur in Graceling and sharing only one of the same characters, can almost be read as a standalone novel. Upon finishing Graceling I immediately begun this with less than an hour's break in between and was initially disappo I adore it when writers have so fully fleshed out their fantastical worlds that they are able to build a novel around an entire previously unseen section in an entirely new era! This is the second installment in the Graceling series and, set a few decades before the events that occur in Graceling and sharing only one of the same characters, can almost be read as a standalone novel. Upon finishing Graceling I immediately begun this with less than an hour's break in between and was initially disappointed. I had formed a bond with the first set of characters and had misplaced expectations that I would be spending the entirety of the three books of this trilogy in their company. These feelings soon dissipated, however, as I realized that this new cast was just as lovable. The world Fire inhabits is geographically close to Katsa's, their feisty feminist attitudes are very much aligned and so are their positions in society. But that is where the similarities stop. Fire's world is a far more dangerous and feral place to live, with monster animals haunting her every move and a society of people who distrust and despise her status as the last living human monster. The particulars of what exactly a monster is, is never fully explained, however. And this seemed to be a running theme of the book. I dually loved every moment of reading it and felt a step behind the plot the entire time. Perhaps it was the abundance of characters or that I was still partially still caught up in the previous plot, but I continually seemed to be slightly slow in grasping the particulars of the narrative. I think it says something about the power of the book, as a whole, and the beauty of the writing that I can still give it four stars after stating that. Overall, this is a powerfully written and action-dominated book, with a set of lovable and authentic characters, set in a flawlessly created, vast and varied world that I can't seem to get enough of! ...more<---C>Brocker (Graceling Realm)</---C>", "Title": "Fire"},
