{"Comments": "the title of this book had thrown me off as just fluff untill it was recommended to me by my daughter. And she was right I loved it. Perhaps it is because the 4 women in the club loved and struggled through the same time periods I did. I was so envious of the closeness of these friends and how their friendship endured for over 30 years. Their choice of books for the bookclub were varied and interesting. How much fun would it be to start an angry housewives spin off book club and read the same bo the title of this book had thrown me off as just fluff untill it was recommended to me by my daughter. And she was right I loved it. Perhaps it is because the 4 women in the club loved and struggled through the same time periods I did. I was so envious of the closeness of these friends and how their friendship endured for over 30 years. Their choice of books for the bookclub were varied and interesting. How much fun would it be to start an angry housewives spin off book club and read the same books <---C>Faith</---C>, Merit, Slip and Audrey read. Like some of the other reviewers I too am a sucker for books about friendships and how much those friendships can mean in terms of love and support through difficult times. I would recommend this especially to women over 50. They can certainly relate to women's roles in the 60's and 70's as I did. I always hate to see a book I really enjoy end, because I ask the question \"What happens next?\". There is still a lot of stories that could develop from this wonderful beginning-especially about the next generation of these \"housewives\". ...more This book is about 5 neighbors who start a book club in the late 1960's... and the reader lives the next 30 years along with them. Thank you, Mary, one of MY oldest friends (<---B>in the sense that I've known you 18 years!</---B>) who loaned me this book-- I loved it! It made me realize how fast 30 years will fly by and to live in each moment with my family. This is not a book I would have picked up on my own,<---M> most likely</---M>, yet I can say that it is probably one of my favorite novels I've read in a long time. This book is about 5 neighbors who start a book club in the late 1960's... and the reader lives the next 30 years along with them. Thank you, Mary, one of MY oldest friends (in the sense that I've known you 18 years!) who loaned me this book-- I loved it! It made me realize how fast 30 years will fly by and to live in each moment with my family. This is not a book I would have picked up on my own, most likely, yet I can say that it is probably one of my favorite novels I've read in a long time. I related to this book in so many different ways-from being a young child in the 1970's remembering my mom's bridge clubs...all the ladies of the neighborhood eating snacks and smoking...being a mom of young kids myself now and relating to the things these housewives feel and experience, loving books and wanting to be part of something where you build true and lasting friendships, connecting with a character like Slip b/c I, too, am short and have frizzy red hair and a wonderful husband, unlike the other Angry Housewives...having 2 boys and wondering WHAT IF one of them turned out gay...would I be like Faith? This book was so nostalgic and I laughed out loud and cried A LOT. It makes me want to be part of a book club like that, too...<---F>any takers? </---F>...more Prekrasna knjiga, jedna od onih koje je te\u0161ko ispustiti iz ruke... Knjiga mo\u017eda nema klasi\u010dan uvod, zaplet, rasplet..ve\u0107 jednostavo pratimo \u017eivote pet \u017eena, prijateljica i susjeda..A pratimo ih kroz sastanke njihovog kluba knjige \"Opake ku\u0107anice u\u017eivaju u slatki\u0161ima\". One prolaze \u017eivotne situacije kroz koje svi prolazimo tijekom godina; od prvih trudno\u0107a, male djece, te\u0161kih brakova, razvoda, odnosa sa roditeljima...tako da se jako lako poistovjetiti sa svakom od njih. Ne vjerujem pretjerano u ho Prekrasna knjiga, jedna od onih koje je te\u0161ko ispustiti iz ruke... Knjiga mo\u017eda nema klasi\u010dan uvod, zaplet, rasplet..ve\u0107 jednostavo pratimo \u017eivote pet \u017eena, prijateljica i susjeda..A pratimo ih kroz sastanke njihovog kluba knjige \"Opake ku\u0107anice u\u017eivaju u slatki\u0161ima\". One prolaze \u017eivotne situacije kroz koje svi prolazimo tijekom godina; od prvih trudno\u0107a, male djece, te\u0161kih brakova, razvoda, odnosa sa roditeljima...tako da se jako lako poistovjetiti sa svakom od njih. Ne vjerujem pretjerano u horoskope, ali meni, kao Vodenjaku, prijateljstvo je jako, jako va\u017ean dio \u017eivota. Mo\u017eda me zato ova knjiga jo\u0161 ja\u010de dodirnula, jer prijateljstva koja pratimo u knjizi traju vi\u0161e od 30.god. One se zajedno smiju i pla\u010du, i tu su jedna za drugu kroz sve te, svima poznate, uspone i padove u \u017eivotu.. A autorica nas tako vje\u0161to vodi kroz knjigu, na na\u010din da je svako poglavlje posve\u0107eno jednoj knjizi tj. jednom njihovom sastanku, a ispri\u010dano je kroz lik one ku\u0107anice koja je doma\u0107in te ve\u010deri.. Tako\u0111er je u knjizi navedeno puno knjiga i autora pa mo\u017eete i dobiti i pokoju ideju za sljede\u0107e \u010ditanje. Bez bzira koji \u017eanr volite, jer ova knjiga se i tako ne mo\u017ee ukalupiti u neki odre\u0111eni \u017eanr, Opake ku\u0107anice bi preporu\u010dila ba\u0161 svakom ljubitelju dobre knjige! Prava literarna poslastica! ...more This is a great Book Club starter book! It really got us going and shows how people from different backgrounds can really enjoy reading the same books! I read this on the recomendation of my dental hygenist. When I finished it I passed it on to my mom who LOVED it. I think that might be the target audience here - Women a generation or two older than me. It's not that the book is bad - it's just kind of predictable. I found that was true with the other <---A>Lorna Landvik</---A> book I read as well. I was able to see things coming from a mile away. *sigh* Yet the writing was good enough that I never put the book down so I guess that's something. Did I mentio I read this on the recomendation of my dental hygenist. When I finished it I passed it on to my mom who LOVED it. I think that might be the target audience here - Women a generation or two older than me. It's not that the book is bad - it's just kind of predictable. I found that was true with the other Lorna Landvik book I read as well. I was able to see things coming from a mile away. *sigh* Yet the writing was good enough that I never put the book down so I guess that's something. Did I mention my mom loved it? ...more Book review from BookCrossing: I finished this book this morning at my brother's house in Zurich. Brought it on this trip because it's on a friend's wish list :) I made some notes on the plane for my journal entry, and will add them here later. The one thing that keeps coming back to me is that this book reminds me quite a bit of The Future Homemakers of America , except that I liked this one much better. Both books follow a group of women who are friends over multiple decades. I'm always interest Book review from BookCrossing: I finished this book this morning at my brother's house in Zurich. Brought it on this trip because it's on a friend's wish list :) I made some notes on the plane for my journal entry, and will add them here later. The one thing that keeps coming back to me is that this book reminds me quite a bit of The Future Homemakers of America , except that I liked this one much better. Both books follow a group of women who are friends over multiple decades. I'm always interested in these types of relationships, and jealous, too, that I don't have that. Anyway, will add additional notes later, but I really liked this book! I laughed, I cried. It was great :) Updated to add my notes: Before I ever even got into the book, I found something I liked in the prologue: A few years back, when I finally got smart enough to go to a therapist, she asked how I had held things together all these years. It didn't take long to come up with an answer. 'That's easy. I belong to a bookclub.' As if you didn't already know that this group were a bunch of booklovers, here's a clearer description of their love for books. Upon opening a new libary book: She opened the cover and ran her hand over the page, enjoying the paper's smooth, cool texture under her hand. Chapter One. How many times in her life had those two words invited her to go to a different place, a better place than the one she lived in? This book isn't just about a book club, though. It's about friendship. The descriptions of each of the women are so clear, I felt like I knew them -- or had maybe been in bookclub with them -- by the end of the book. The description of Kari, in particular, made me want to be like her: There's something Kari that makes me feel calm - after listening to her I feel like I've drunk a warm glass of milk. And last, the value of sharing things (in this case a book, but it applies elsewhere) and how a life is enriched by doing so. Audrey describing bookclub: What I had come to love about bookclub (besides the fabulous desserts and free liquor) was how in hearing so many opinions about the same book, your own opinion expanded, as if you'd read the book several times instead of just once. I'm so I read this book! I'll treasure its memory and I've already recommended it to several people :) ...more If you are a conservative/Republican/Baptist preacher (because we all know how nasty Baptist preachers are, don't we? Wink. Wink.) and you enjoy reading books that cast every bad character as a conservative/Republican/Baptist preacher (did I mention how wicked and evil Baptist preachers are?) you will love this book. If you love stereotypes you will love this book. If you are a liberal Democrat and you love reading books that belittle and make fun of anyone who disagrees with you (conservatives/ If you are a conservative/Republican/Baptist preacher (because we all know how nasty Baptist preachers are, don't we? Wink. Wink.) and you enjoy reading books that cast every bad character as a conservative/Republican/Baptist preacher (did I mention how wicked and evil Baptist preachers are?) you will love this book. If you love stereotypes you will love this book. If you are a liberal Democrat and you love reading books that belittle and make fun of anyone who disagrees with you (conservatives/Republicans/Baptist preachers--those horrible preachers are evil and intolerant!) than you should enjoy this book. If you consider yourself tolerant, but in reality you malign anyone whose opinion differs from yours, again, this will be a book you'll love. (Especially if you hate those narrow-minded Baptist preachers!) If that's not enough to convince you to read this book, wait, there's more! If you love line by line point of view changes, this book is for you. If you love confusing tense changes, you'll have them in this book. And, the thing that totally sold me on it, if you enjoy prose that switches from first person to third person, this is an absolute must read. At this point in my review, it's probably impossible to be fair, (I'm still trying to recover from my childhood--I was raised by a Baptist preacher, after all, and there's not much hope for me, but I'm trying) but there were some great analogies in this. One that sticks out: a woman's breasts were overflowing her bikini like a bunt cake stuck in a muffin tin. That was new to me, but then again, I don't harbor violent tendencies toward Baptist preachers, either. ...more The fact that \"Angry Housewives\" was set in a Minneapolis neighborhood near Minnehaha Park gave me high hopes. That and the fact that it took place from 1968-1998 because this is a timeline that dovetails with my mother's adult life. But ... it lacked a sense of setting. Minnehaha Park was visited by the composer Dvorak (I think!) and the poet Longfellow. It has a charming stone pavillion, covered with trees, has the best sledding hill in town, has a spooky, stoney, ferny descent to the creek, w The fact that \"Angry Housewives\" was set in a Minneapolis neighborhood near Minnehaha Park gave me high hopes. That and the fact that it took place from 1968-1998 because this is a timeline that dovetails with my mother's adult life. But ... it lacked a sense of setting. Minnehaha Park was visited by the composer Dvorak (I think!) and the poet Longfellow. It has a charming stone pavillion, covered with trees, has the best sledding hill in town, has a spooky, stoney, ferny descent to the creek, where you could watch the falls. The stuff that dreams are made of. And horror - as children, we passed around urban legends of the bodies crushed by the falls. A retiring journalist once regaled us about how he covered his first murder - a woman's body was found at the bottom of the sledding hill with a dozen stab wounds in her back. Though the women took many walks \"along the creek basin,\" the description of setting ends there. They could have just as well been walking in a mall, across the desert, before a \"Scooby Doo\" backdrop. And they lived in an older neighborhood, but I couldn't shake the image of a treeless, suburban cul-de-sac. But, really, this is yet another novel about women growing up together. You've got your types, a la \"Sex in the City,\" or \"The Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood,\" or \"Golden Girls.\" It's not terrible, or unreadable. But I finished it with the distinct feeling of de ja vu. ...more Who knew that the Great American Novel would turn out to be by and for women ---and about BOOKS? But it all makes sense when you think about it. This books spans the '60s to the '90s, and beneath the 'Aga Saga' exterior beats a heart of history, anger, wonder, national issues making local lives miserable or better, and the general upheaval of family, friends and phobias. Vietnam, Eric Segal, Arthur Hailey, Erica Jong and all the \"who?\"s of my parents' generation, plus books I remember secreting to Who knew that the Great American Novel would turn out to be by and for women ---and about BOOKS? But it all makes sense when you think about it. This books spans the '60s to the '90s, and beneath the 'Aga Saga' exterior beats a heart of history, anger, wonder, national issues making local lives miserable or better, and the general upheaval of family, friends and phobias. Vietnam, Eric Segal, Arthur Hailey, Erica Jong and all the \"who?\"s of my parents' generation, plus books I remember secreting to bed in the '80s to find out what all the fuss was about: they're part of what was happening here (even if it wasn't very clear...) :] Great read, and not what one might expect - I thought this was going to be a bubble-gum-for-the-brain easy bit of fluff. A caveat: be warned, male readers: you may think it is as fluffy as dandelion seed in spring sunshine, but those are little pieces of the bomb that will explode your world, taking off on silk parachutes to connect with other minds. In fact, and I'm not male-bashing here, you might not get it. This might be a two-layer book with two messages. Or not; I'm basing that on a male friend's reaction, which was basically \"Did we read the same book, 'cause I thought this was boring.\" {sigh} What's that quote from the professor in \"History Boys\" -you suddenly come across something someone else has written that describes what you know and it's like a hand reaching out in the dark? How pleasant. ...more This book went on and on and on and on:P I had a difficult time reading it. I was unable to relate to any of the characters. Kari was the only likeable personality, because she was simple, kind, and nurturing. The other characters had serious personality defects! Merit disgusted me with her habit of stuffing used tissue, q-tips, and paper in her hairdo:( That was her way of getting back at her abusive husband, who had no idea she was doing this. I nearly puked when she saved these items and then This book went on and on and on and on:P I had a difficult time reading it. I was unable to relate to any of the characters. Kari was the only likeable personality, because she was simple, kind, and nurturing. The other characters had serious personality defects! Merit disgusted me with her habit of stuffing used tissue, q-tips, and paper in her hairdo:( That was her way of getting back at her abusive husband, who had no idea she was doing this. I nearly puked when she saved these items and then showed them to her second husband! Yuck! Was anyone else bothered by this? The character who disturbed me the most was Faith. I found her to be cold, jealous, and very controlling. She refused to be honest with herself or her friends and family. She was all about keeping up appearances. If she could feel superior to any of her friends, then she felt better about herself! Pg. 218 \"She had been a little jazzed at the beginning of the feud, because it was exciting to have two good friends mad at each other.\" What kind of friend enjoys the unhappiness of another? Overall the book was tolerable I suppose:) ...more I have never been so happy to discover a scheduling conflict. This was a book club selection, and I realized today that I can't make it to this book club meeting. And while I did make it through the first 80 or so pages, I was dreading the discussion... I couldn't think of anything nice to say. I won't give this a star rating (it seems unfair to rate something that I didn't finish) but I could tell right off the bat that this fell on the wrong side of my \"show vs. tell\" meter. The characters were I have never been so happy to discover a scheduling conflict. This was a book club selection, and I realized today that I can't make it to this book club meeting. And while I did make it through the first 80 or so pages, I was dreading the discussion... I couldn't think of anything nice to say. I won't give this a star rating (it seems unfair to rate something that I didn't finish) but I could tell right off the bat that this fell on the wrong side of my \"show vs. tell\" meter. The characters were caricatures, and the writing was cliche-ridden. Examples: The abusive husband who \"smiled a mirthless smile\" and a librarian \"whose braided bun and eyeglass rims were the color of a steel filing cabinet\" and a mixed-race baby whose skin was the color of... you can guess this one... yup. Coffee with cream. Add to that a series of events that read less like life and more like scenes from something on Lifetime: Television for Women , and you've got yourself a recipe for something that I'm just not going to like. ...more There were some excellent parts in this book. Some of the characters were very moving and memorable - I think often of the wife who wrote nasty notes and pinned them up in the bun her husband made her wear. However, there were too many characters. The book spanned too much time. It needed some major editing. There was a really special book within this (maybe even two)... but it was drowned out in the bulk of it all and how the book moved too fast through time to really savor the characters. The There were some excellent parts in this book. Some of the characters were very moving and memorable - I think often of the wife who wrote nasty notes and pinned them up in the bun her husband made her wear. However, there were too many characters. The book spanned too much time. It needed some major editing. There was a really special book within this (maybe even two)... but it was drowned out in the bulk of it all and how the book moved too fast through time to really savor the characters. The author truly had a gift in creating these characters but the \"themed\" decades detracted to me from the plot development. I wish she had slowed down and just let us really get to know the characters, develop their voices in a smaller number of situations (not the extreme length of time). I think different editing would have taken this book really far. The writing itself was excellent. ...more This book strives to be a sweeping, great novel, but it falls short. Although short does not describe the story, since it drags on for over 400 pages. The basic premise is good: five housewives and mothers from the same neighborhood meet in the late 1960's and start a book club, and their friendship and the book club stretch into the late 1990's. They meet at a time when things were very different for women, but were changing at a rapid pace. The five main characters are Faith, a southern girl w This book strives to be a sweeping, great novel, but it falls short. Although short does not describe the story, since it drags on for over 400 pages. The basic premise is good: five housewives and mothers from the same neighborhood meet in the late 1960's and start a book club, and their friendship and the book club stretch into the late 1990's. They meet at a time when things were very different for women, but were changing at a rapid pace. The five main characters are Faith, a southern girl who is so ashamed of her past that she invents an entirely different one; Merit, the pretty minister's daughter who is being abused by her husband; Slip, the politically active woman who, true to her nickname, is merely a slip of a woman; Kari, the older, childless widow; and Audrey, the big, beautiful sex-obsessed and, possibly, the most interesting of the Angry Housewives. The characters are not that well fleshed out, and it is difficult to get an emotional connection going. At times, it is tough to discern who is who and whose children belong to whom. Then, the addition of a gay male character to the group toward the end of the book seems completely superfluous. The book shows promise at the beginning, but drags on too long, and tries to do too much. The research into the time period is very good, since this was a time when women still made excuses for bruises and abuse, where the adoption of a bi-racial child was something unusual, where a gay son rarely came out to his mother, and where a slightly-shady past was something to be hidden. I wish I could have cared more about the characters and the outcome of the book, but there was just too much going on to find this book truly interesting. ...more This book begins where it ends, September 1998, with Slip in the hospital dying of Hodgkins Lymphoma, with her book clubfriends, Faith, Audrey, Kari, Merit and Grant at her bedside. In 1968, a group of women who live in a culda sac, decide to start a book club. Each chapter, highlights a different character, and what is going on in their life. They end up naming the book club \"Angry House Wives Eating Bon bons\" after Eric, Merit's husband, states at a party that, that is what these women in the This book begins where it ends, September 1998, with Slip in the hospital dying of Hodgkins Lymphoma, with her book clubfriends, Faith, Audrey, Kari, Merit and Grant at her bedside. In 1968, a group of women who live in a culda sac, decide to start a book club. Each chapter, highlights a different character, and what is going on in their life. They end up naming the book club \"Angry House Wives Eating Bon bons\" after Eric, Merit's husband, states at a party that, that is what these women in the book club do. As a way of giving eric the finger, they keep that very name, and the title sticks with them for thirty years. This is a book about friendship, and more importantly a group friendship made up of 6 very different people, who respect and accept their differences as they forge this tight book club family bond together. It is also about love and what love is not, and about the art of forgiveness, about loss of young children into adulthood, and acceptance of where life brings you. I thought the book in the middle was slow moving, but like many many great books, the information that was not so earth shaking in the middle, was necessary to lay the foundation of a really great story, with all the loose ends wrapped up neatly by the end. I would recommend this book for women, or a book club. If you are looking for gripping.... this is not the book!!! This is more for someone who appreciates that magical bond, love, understanding that comes with a long term friendhsip! ...more I devoured this book! I suppose that it might be delectable is implied with its title; however, what is not necessarily implied is this book's depth and richness from a title that seemed frivolous and silly to me. Told from the different perspectives of four women I wish I knew, (along with some later chapters told by their gay male friend), this novel spans the 60s through the 90s, covers how to be a friend, wife, and mother, and paints a beautiful picture of how to embrace the wisdom that come I devoured this book! I suppose that it might be delectable is implied with its title; however, what is not necessarily implied is this book's depth and richness from a title that seemed frivolous and silly to me. Told from the different perspectives of four women I wish I knew, (along with some later chapters told by their gay male friend), this novel spans the 60s through the 90s, covers how to be a friend, wife, and mother, and paints a beautiful picture of how to embrace the wisdom that comes with age. I related to each woman's story and struggles and felt like I learned from them as they handled secrets being revealed, children growing up, and the challenges of life. The story takes place on a suburban street in Minnesota and these women are united through snowball fights, children that are the same age, and a book club that meets throughout their thirty years of friendship. I appreciated how the author incorporated pieces of history and societal issues throughout the personal stories within these women's lives: a brother in Nam, an alcoholic mother, a gay son, cancer and AIDS, teenage pregnancy, and spousal abuse (and that's not all of them!). Also, the author begins each chapter with a book the women are reading, why it was chosen, and then that chapter is told through one character's point of view. This created round, deep characters that felt very real to me. I wanted to be reading with them! I would recommend this book to any woman I respect or love--it is a feminist text, but the women are certainly not \"angry housewives.\" They are lovely souls. ...more I don't think this is a book I would have chosen to read on my own, simply based on the title. In general I try not to judge books by their covers (or titles) but I assumed this one would be complete fluff, for lack of a better word. I'm so glad that this was a selection for our book club, though, because for that purpose alone it made me appreciate the group of women I gather with monthly to discuss our latest read. Rather than fluff, what I got was the decades-long story of the lives of five wo I don't think this is a book I would have chosen to read on my own, simply based on the title. In general I try not to judge books by their covers (or titles) but I assumed this one would be complete fluff, for lack of a better word. I'm so glad that this was a selection for our book club, though, because for that purpose alone it made me appreciate the group of women I gather with monthly to discuss our latest read. Rather than fluff, what I got was the decades-long story of the lives of five women who juggle marriage, motherhood, careers, and coming to terms with the fact that not everything in life goes according to plan. The glue that holds them together are the books that they read and discuss; books that may not change their lives but bring perspective to women who might otherwise be sheltered from many of life's hardships. I found this book to be well-written, entertaining, and fascinating. I was drawn into the lives of its characters and wanting to know what would happen next propelled me through each chapter toward the end. I would highly recommend this book to any group of women who belong to - or who want to begin - a book club. Or to any woman who has a wonderfully diverse group of friends to whom she turn in the hardest of life's challenges. ...more As with most of my latest reads, this novel is not one I would have chosen off the shelf for myself. The title would have certainly scared me off. But that seems to be the beauty of belonging to a book club... you get introduced to novels you wouldn't have given a chance. While this certainly won't go down as one of my favorites, it was a very enjoyable read. This book is about a group of similar aged women in a Minnesota town in the late 60's who decide to form a book club. The story follows the As with most of my latest reads, this novel is not one I would have chosen off the shelf for myself. The title would have certainly scared me off. But that seems to be the beauty of belonging to a book club... you get introduced to novels you wouldn't have given a chance. While this certainly won't go down as one of my favorites, it was a very enjoyable read. This book is about a group of similar aged women in a Minnesota town in the late 60's who decide to form a book club. The story follows their lives over the years, giving each character her own spotlight and evolution. By the end of the novel you feel like you know each individual personally and have gone on their journey with them. I could relate to each character on different levels, so I was invested in each one. For that, I have to give the author credit for a job well done with character development. The main theme of the novel is the strength of friendship, particularly bonds between women, and how important it becomes during life's twists and turns. ...more This started out slow for me but now that I'm into the sections that flesh out the women in the book club I'm really enjoying it. I just finished the book. I liked how the characters were exposed via the Book Discussion Chapters, although at times the different writing perspective got confusing, i.e. first person narrative vs. 3rd person. At first I didn't like that the author didn't nicely wrap up the various story lines then decided it's nice to think that the characters keep going on. By far the best book I've ever read! I can't wait to read it again! Such a beautiful story of friendship, family, love, life, and books! Added 3/17/15. 4/18/15 - I read only the first 16 pages and bailed out. I should have realized from the title that I would not like the story. Anything about housewives usually bores me. What turned me off completely was the introduction of so many characters in the first few pages. There was no time to internalize who was who and there was very little fleshing out. In other words, there was nothing to hook me into reading more. PS - One reviewer (giving it ONE STAR) said: ======================= Added 3/17/15. 4/18/15 - I read only the first 16 pages and bailed out. I should have realized from the title that I would not like the story. Anything about housewives usually bores me. What turned me off completely was the introduction of so many characters in the first few pages. There was no time to internalize who was who and there was very little fleshing out. In other words, there was nothing to hook me into reading more. PS - One reviewer (giving it ONE STAR) said: ================================= \"I wouldn't have finished this is it hadn't been a bookclub book. Changing perspective every chapter between seven different characters is bad enough, but some characters were written in first person and others in third person? I felt like the book tried to cover too many issues and several things didn't seem realistic.\" FROM: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ================================ Another ONE STAR review said: --------------------------------- \"The sound you're hearing is me running, screaming, from this charmless mess of a book.\" FROM: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ----------------------------------------------- PPS-Also see the following ONE STAR REVIEWS: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... FROM ABOVE-LINKED REVIEW: \"I did not enjoy this book at all. I thought it was very predicatable and lost interest several times, having to go back and remember what character went with what story...\" https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... FROM ABOVE-LINKED REVIEW: \"...Not too particularly thrilled with storyline. I kept putting the book down after every chapter and when I started reading again I had to figure out which of the 10,000 characters the chapter was about. ... \" https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... FROM ABOVE-LINKED REVIEW: \"...The characters felt flat and stereotypical/archtypical, and the setting felt more like a vague background...\" NOTE: I enjoyed another book by Lorna Landvik entitled Oh My Stars , which was filled with droll humor and touching characters. However, this one was a disappointment. ...more Synopsis: The women of Freesia Court are convinced that there is nothing good coffee, delectable desserts, and a strong shoulder can't fix. Laughter is the glue that holds them together -- the foundation of a book group they call AHEB (<+++>Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons</+++>), an unofficial \"club\" that becomes much more. It becomes a lifeline. Holding on through forty eventful years, there's Faith, a lonely mother of twins who harbors a terrible secret that has condemned her to living a lie; big, beaut Synopsis: The women of Freesia Court are convinced that there is nothing good coffee, delectable desserts, and a strong shoulder can't fix. Laughter is the glue that holds them together -- the foundation of a book group they call AHEB (<+++>Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons</+++>), an unofficial \"club\" that becomes much more. It becomes a lifeline. Holding on through forty eventful years, there's Faith, a lonely mother of twins who harbors a terrible secret that has condemned her to living a lie; big, beautiful Audrey, the resident sex queen who knows that with good posture and an attitude you can get away with anything; Merit, the shy doctor's wife with the face of an angel and the private hell of an abusive husband; Kari, a wise woman with a wonderful laugh who knows the greatest gifts appear after life's fiercest storms; and finally, Slip, a tiny spitfire of a woman who isn't afraid to look trouble straight in the eye. This stalwart group of friends depicts a special slice of American life, of stay-at-home days and new careers, of children and grandchildren, of bold beginnings and second chances, in which the power of forgiveness, understanding, and the perfectly timed giggle fit is the CPR that mends broken hearts and shattered dreams. My Opinion: I really enjoyed this book of friendship. It was a great way to start out book club! I liked the bonds that were made and how all the friendships came together even when there were circles within the circles. Even then, no one cared or worried about anything but each other. I know everyone didn't really enjoy this book, but I really enjoyed reading about the friendships that only became stronger throughout the years, through all the good the bad and the ugly! ...more AAAAAAAA!!!! Ugh. What a disappointment. I listened to the audio CD book. It was read by a cast, and only two of the readers were any good. The primary reader had a gravelly voice that didn't match the youth and supposed energy of the characters about which she read. If I'd been reading the physical book, I would have skimmed and tossed it. That's the down-side of audio. You're driving and you hope it improves. There were SO many missed opportunities of this book. I'm still not sure what the point AAAAAAAA!!!! Ugh. What a disappointment. I listened to the audio CD book. It was read by a cast, and only two of the readers were any good. The primary reader had a gravelly voice that didn't match the youth and supposed energy of the characters about which she read. If I'd been reading the physical book, I would have skimmed and tossed it. That's the down-side of audio. You're driving and you hope it improves. There were SO many missed opportunities of this book. I'm still not sure what the point was. Landvik just glosses over the lives of these five women (and eventually one gay man thrown in near the end of the book) who are neighbors and form a book club. I thought it would be a bit like a Mauve Binchy book - her books are extremely well-described stories about women and families in the UK and Ireland. Binchy's books aren't necessarily overly dramatic but they're compelling and the reader can't help but learn so much about a town, it's people, and how they all interact. Landvik fails to give us compelling characters, she dwells too much on the uninteresting ones (Faith, so yeah, lots of people have had a hard life and have to cover it up) and totally glosses over the interesting ones (how in the world a woman with no money and means can divorce her brutal husband in the 60's and end up with the house and the kids is still a mystery to me because Landvik just lets this drama happen and skips ahead a few years so she won't have to waste any time on it - it is described simply as a bad divorce. Bad divorce indeed.) Anyway, I've already written way more than this book deserves. I'm just ...more Follow the joys and heartbreaks of five friends in Minnesota and their wacky bookclub called Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons. There is Faith the organized one who is hiding a secret; Audrey the voluptuous one whose life changes the most; Widowed Kari who thinks life is pretty much over until she\u2019s thrown a curve; Merit, the pretty one who lives with an abusive husband and Slip who is always supporting a cause. The book spands over three decades and gives you a nostalgic look at the 70\u2032s, 80\u2032s an Follow the joys and heartbreaks of five friends in Minnesota and their wacky bookclub called Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons. There is Faith the organized one who is hiding a secret; Audrey the voluptuous one whose life changes the most; Widowed Kari who thinks life is pretty much over until she\u2019s thrown a curve; Merit, the pretty one who lives with an abusive husband and Slip who is always supporting a cause. The book spands over three decades and gives you a nostalgic look at the 70\u2032s, 80\u2032s and 90\u2032s. There\u2019s over thirty-four books mentioned and I have read only two. Now I have a new reading list to add to my already long to-be-read list. The author does an excellent job of characterization as each of her characters grow. Which woman do I see myself in? I actually saw a little bit of myself in all the women, but I have to say Merit is the one I most identify with because of the abusive relationship she experienced. The book probably appeals more to the 50+ group. I\u2019d like to see a sequel: Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons: The Golden Years. This edition included questions and answers to the author and a reading group guide. Follow this link to see all the books mentioned in Angry Housewives: https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/6... ...more I didn't want to like this book! I didn't like the title, and I didn't like the premise of the story. But oh my gosh I couldn't put this book down. It was engaging, thought provoking, and really engaged me. I blazed through this book in under 24 hours! Seems a little weird to think of this as historical fiction but the times it described are over. Not many people seriously carry picket signs. Young men are still damaged by wars (now it is young women also). So many women staying at home with their children. Prehistoric. Almost all of them smoking. Neanderthal. Being there for each other ---- I hope that is still possible. The author cherry picks the most meaningful moments out of her 5 female characters lives and brings them through forty year Seems a little weird to think of this as historical fiction but the times it described are over. Not many people seriously carry picket signs. Young men are still damaged by wars (now it is young women also). So many women staying at home with their children. Prehistoric. Almost all of them smoking. Neanderthal. Being there for each other ---- I hope that is still possible. The author cherry picks the most meaningful moments out of her 5 female characters lives and brings them through forty years intact as a group. I had to make a scorecard to sort them out for the first chapter but then their individual personalities became more clear. None were perfect people and their interactions did not always go smoothly. Alcoholism, abusive spouses, gay children, strongly held political opinions and in the beginning the war in Vietnam provide the structure. The rest of their lives seemed to me to be presented at surface level. I did not get emotionally or intellectually involved in the story. I think the author was trying to present the sweep of history and I am not sure why this was not a great book but it wasn't. Worth reading if you are interested in the times. ...more I felt guilty about really liking this book. It's equivalent to a \"chick flick\" of the reading world. But, then I think about whether people feel guilty about enjoying \"dick flicks.\" The definition I just found for dick flick is a move that \"generally contains lots of car chases, explosions, and boobs.\" Nice. I highly doubt it. Needless to say there was lots of female bonding, as well as explorations of relationships with mothers, families and their friendships. I thought Lorna Landvik was a gre I felt guilty about really liking this book. It's equivalent to a \"chick flick\" of the reading world. But, then I think about whether people feel guilty about enjoying \"dick flicks.\" The definition I just found for dick flick is a move that \"generally contains lots of car chases, explosions, and boobs.\" Nice. I highly doubt it. Needless to say there was lots of female bonding, as well as explorations of relationships with mothers, families and their friendships. I thought Lorna Landvik was a great storyteller and good at developing her characters. I found myself caring what happened to them. It was really foreign to read about \"housewives\" at a time that wasn't that long ago. The book demonstrates that although they were \"just\" housewives, they were powerful, family matriarchs, creative, politically active and critical to the fabric of society. The book went on a little too long and probably should have had about 100 pages lopped off. I recommend for a good mostly light read. ...more This book could have been about 200 pages shorter, giving it less time to decline from my original 3 star rating to one star. I decided to give it an 'average\" 2 stars. This book was definitely better than I had expected based on the cover, but that is far from saying it was good. The book centered around 5 women/neighbors and followed the women\u2019s' lives over the course of 30 years. Those women packed an unbelievable amount of drama into those 30 years. The author assigned every drama ever conce This book could have been about 200 pages shorter, giving it less time to decline from my original 3 star rating to one star. I decided to give it an 'average\" 2 stars. This book was definitely better than I had expected based on the cover, but that is far from saying it was good. The book centered around 5 women/neighbors and followed the women\u2019s' lives over the course of 30 years. Those women packed an unbelievable amount of drama into those 30 years. The author assigned every drama ever conceived to one of the five women. Abuse - check Cheating - check Jealousy - check Psychic Powers - check Religious Conversion - check Divorce - check Marriage - check Feuds - check Homosexuality - check AIDS - check Adoption - check Death - check Home Birth - check Twins - check Vietnam - check A Secret Past - check Cancer - check Estranged Relationships - check Annoying Political Activist - check The only thing this book didn't include was entertainment and a timely ending. ...more Though I enjoyed the story and the bond created between the Angry housewives, I had trouble with the organization of the novel itself. It went back and forth a lot, and the year on each chapter really didn't have much to do with that particular chapter. I was also disappointed that the books they chose were only mentioned by name, and no comments about the books were made. While I assume some of the story line from each chapter alludes to the books, I wouldn't know because I have not read them a Though I enjoyed the story and the bond created between the Angry housewives, I had trouble with the organization of the novel itself. It went back and forth a lot, and the year on each chapter really didn't have much to do with that particular chapter. I was also disappointed that the books they chose were only mentioned by name, and no comments about the books were made. While I assume some of the story line from each chapter alludes to the books, I wouldn't know because I have not read them all. A book about books should mention them more. I would still recommend the book, mostly because it makes you feel good. And in this day and age, we all need a little of that wherever we can get it. ...more This was the first book I got to chose when i first joined the last book club I was in. It is still considered to be the best book that that club has ever read! Lorna Landviks' books are really good!!! funny, endearing, sad, a lot like real life and her charaacters are all so wonderfully written. Another great story by Lorna Landvik. It was so good that I'll even forgive the author for refering to \"Give Peace a Chance\" as a Beatles song.;) It was neat to see so many of the years of my lifetime through a different lens.", "Title": "Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons"},
