{"Comments": "3.<---F>5 stars</---F>. If only\u2026If only my eleven-year-old younger self had read this book. I know she would\u2019ve shrieked with happiness at holding <+++>Princess Academy</+++> against her innocent little heart. Miri and younger Lola might\u2019ve shared a stronger and more vivid level of connection and this latter probably would\u2019ve eagerly pressed five stars as rating. (Well, it certainly isn\u2019t every day that I refer to myself in the 3rd person.) But I\u2019m not eleven anymore, and, even if I enjoy some middle grade and younger r 3.5 stars. If only\u2026If only my eleven-year-old younger self had read this book. I know she would\u2019ve shrieked with happiness at holding <+++>Princess Academy</+++> against her innocent little heart. Miri and younger Lola might\u2019ve shared a stronger and more vivid level of connection and this latter probably would\u2019ve eagerly pressed five stars as rating. (Well, it certainly isn\u2019t every day that I refer to myself in the 3rd person.) But I\u2019m not eleven anymore, and, even if I enjoy some middle grade and younger reads from time to time, I will never feel the same way when reading them as I feel toward Young Adult novels, my favorite genre. Why I do still read these books aimed to children is for the fluffiness, cuteness and fairytale omnipresent ambience that takes you to another dimension, one of dreams and endless possibilities. Something I can rarely find in YA novels. And this happened to be a good example of a book giving me this opportunity. I mean,<---M> princess stories</---M>, if they are of your taste, are wonderful to plunge into and read. Miri as a heroine lacked maturity though. I don\u2019t know if it is my own fault thinking that, since we obviously are not same age (she is fourteen) but she spoke without thinking oh so many times\u2026which equalled trouble, or in this context hand lashing and uncountable hours in the closet next to a rat. I kept muttering for her to stop bluntly bursting out words and felt exasperated when she did so anyway, but that\u2019s the thing with MG novels: You can\u2019t one hundred percent blame the young characters, since it\u2019s normal for them, due to their age, to make mistakes and it\u2019s usually in purpose for a character growth, which we very much could observe in this story. I\u2019ve read three <---A>Shannon Hale</---A> books so far - The Storybook of Legends , The Goose Girl , Austenland - and I realized that her style varies depending of the genre and type of book she is writing. Probably, if you enjoyed the first two, you will feel the same for Princess Academy . But if you\u2019ve only read Austenland , then you will find that this book is written differently (with reason and a \u2018thank god\u2019 muttered because Austenland was just a poorly written and confusing book; I couldn\u2019t even finish it. But the movie was enjoyable \u2013 recommended!) The romance lovely presented istelf. I\u2019m rarely into situations in which a character is in love with her/his best friend but the author managed to make this one not sound clich\u00e9 or annoyingly cheesy. They were good together and the chemistry evident! This is not a book for everyone but it was short and sweet and actually not that predictable. Sure, many situations made it easy for us to foresee their outcome, but some others contained plenty of surprises. What I loved most about this book was the lyrical writing and relationship between Miri and Britta, whom she misjudged quite too quickly, and her own sister, Marda. Incidentally, it was good to see original names for the characters. Beautiful art source! ...more AUGUST 2012: Just re-read (technically re-listened) to this one in anticipation of the sequel coming out this month. Loved this book all over again! --- MAY 2007: So the latest books I\u2019ve read \u2026 I haven\u2019t exactly enjoyed. I mean, I do finish them and everything, so they must have been okay, but it\u2019s not like I was ever reaching for my book multiple times a day, binging on pages. I\u2019ve kind of missed that. But all that changed with Princess Academy! Seriously \u2014 I loved this book. (I should probably on AUGUST 2012: Just re-read (technically re-listened) to this one in anticipation of the sequel coming out this month. Loved this book all over again! --- MAY 2007: So the latest books I\u2019ve read \u2026 I haven\u2019t exactly enjoyed. I mean, I do finish them and everything, so they must have been okay, but it\u2019s not like I was ever reaching for my book multiple times a day, binging on pages. I\u2019ve kind of missed that. But all that changed with Princess Academy! Seriously \u2014 I loved this book. (I should probably only admit this through the relative anonymity of the Internet. Seriously \u2026 Princess Academy? What am I, eleven?! Oh well.) :-) This book is written for children. Nevertheless, the writing was terrific (I didn\u2019t feel like I was being led by the hand through the whole story, as some children\u2019s writing might \u2014 must be one of the reasons it became a Newbury Honor book). I thought the pacing was perfect; key pieces of information were given a little at a time. It is fairy-tale-ish, and happy endings abound, but none of those endings (even the romance) ended up being sickeningly unrealistic. I loved the themes of this book: education as a key to opportunity, diplomacy to work through problems, kindness to all (even when they don\u2019t seem to deserve it) which leads to empathy and understanding. One of my favorite books I\u2019ve read this year, hands down. ...more Sometimes you just want to take a break from endless angst and sexual tension of currently popular both adult and YA books and read something light and inoffensive. \"Princess Academy\" is an excellent choice for this purpose. Although this is an obviously children's book, it is not silly or overly simplistic. The fairy tale is very imaginative and teaches many valuable lessons (importance of education is among many of them), but never in a preachy way. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found mys Sometimes you just want to take a break from endless angst and sexual tension of currently popular both adult and YA books and read something light and inoffensive. \"Princess Academy\" is an excellent choice for this purpose. Although this is an obviously children's book, it is not silly or overly simplistic. The fairy tale is very imaginative and teaches many valuable lessons (importance of education is among many of them), but never in a preachy way. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found myself extending my walks and slowing my driving just to continue listening to this excellent full cast audio. My only complaint was that the main narrator read a little too slowly, I really wanted her to speed it up a bit. Overall, a great experience. I will definitely read more of Shannon Hale's books when I am in a mood for a nice fairy tale. Reading challenge: #1 - P. ...more Overall, the book was well written and appropriate for a young adolescent audience. It was certainly not written for someone in my demographic! I enjoyed a number of aspects of this book and also a few disappointements. Specifically, 1) The resolution of the primary conflict (who gets to be the princess) felt too much like a plot-device (I can't say more without giving away the ending) that the author threw into the story to avoid a painful conflict between the characters. 2)The culture of the moun Overall, the book was well written and appropriate for a young adolescent audience. It was certainly not written for someone in my demographic! I enjoyed a number of aspects of this book and also a few disappointements. Specifically, 1) The resolution of the primary conflict (who gets to be the princess) felt too much like a plot-device (I can't say more without giving away the ending) that the author threw into the story to avoid a painful conflict between the characters. 2)The culture of the mountain village and the kingdom as a whole was not developed enough - there was a lot of good potential here. On the other hand... 3) What culture was discussed permeated the story. Things like 'quarry-singing', holding hands, and twirling the miri flowers (to name a few) were present throughout the story, lending the culture a consistancy. 4) However, the absolute BEST aspect of this book is the over-all theme on the value of education. It was wonderful to see the education the girls received transforming their lives and the lives of their families. Further, I loved how the principle characters recognized the impact and determined to continue pursuing and sharing it. Despite the two negative comments above, please don't misconstrue my review for a negative one. As I said before, this book wasn't really wriiten for me. Were I an adolescent girl this probably would rate 5 stars. I think my daughters will thoroughly enjoy reading the book when they get older (I know I will recommend it to them) and I highly recommend the book for any adolescent girls you may know. ...more $1.99 Kindle sale - 12/7/16 This is a favorite comfort read, and a delightful older middle grade/younger YA fantasy that was nominated for a 2006 Newbery Award. Miri is a teenage girl living in a small, simple mountain village, where everyone makes a living quarrying a lovely marble rock that is found only on their mountain. It's a sometimes harsh life, with everyone kind of scraping to get by, but filled with love and close friendships. One day the simple life ends: the priests of their country $1.99 Kindle sale - 12/7/16 This is a favorite comfort read, and a delightful older middle grade/younger YA fantasy that was nominated for a 2006 Newbery Award. Miri is a teenage girl living in a small, simple mountain village, where everyone makes a living quarrying a lovely marble rock that is found only on their mountain. It's a sometimes harsh life, with everyone kind of scraping to get by, but filled with love and close friendships. One day the simple life ends: the priests of their country have divined that the prince is to marry a girl from their village. The king's ministers, appalled that their prince needs to marry a rough and unsophisticated village girl, set up an academy, a day's hike down the mountain from the village, and force all the marriageable teenage girls to live there and be tutored for a year, at which point the prince will arrive in great pomp, there will be a dance, and he'll choose his bride. Most of the story follows Miri and the other village girls as they deal with a harsh, cold head mistress of the academy, and the competition between them to be the head of the class (which earns you the best dress at the princess ball and some other perks). Miri deeply wants to be at the top of the class, but she's also conflicted because of her feelings for a boy back in the village. What I love about this book is that it's about more than just a competition to win the attention and heart of the prince. It's also about friendship, the importance of education, and being a strong person and true to your heart. There's some magic in it, though it's fairly subtle. Highly recommended! ...more Every now and then I like to read a good children's book, especially if it has a smart heroine. Princess Academy was perfect reading for a Sunday afternoon. It tells the story of Miri, a 14-year-old girl living on a mountain that mines a valuable stone. One day, it's announced that the prince will choose his next princess from Miri's village, and all of the girls are sent to an academy to be educated. Miri is a spunky girl: she studies hard, she tries to make friends and she stands up for the ri Every now and then I like to read a good children's book, especially if it has a smart heroine. Princess Academy was perfect reading for a Sunday afternoon. It tells the story of Miri, a 14-year-old girl living on a mountain that mines a valuable stone. One day, it's announced that the prince will choose his next princess from Miri's village, and all of the girls are sent to an academy to be educated. Miri is a spunky girl: she studies hard, she tries to make friends and she stands up for the rights of others. What I especially liked is how the author emphasized education \u2014 Miri finds a way to use her new knowledge to help her family and the village. By the end of the book, it didn't really matter who became princess, because Miri had found her purpose in life. Highly recommended for anyone who wants a delightful dose of girl power. ...more Had a very long drive ahead of me yesterday, so took this lovely book along to reread it. It was never very surprising to this old reader; I could see the plot turns coming a few chapters before they did, but the true pleasure is in the relationships of the families in the mountain village where Miri lives, and of course the relationships of the girls as they develop. This reading, I appreciated how Hale takes the time to give all the girls at least some personality, and some chance to change and Had a very long drive ahead of me yesterday, so took this lovely book along to reread it. It was never very surprising to this old reader; I could see the plot turns coming a few chapters before they did, but the true pleasure is in the relationships of the families in the mountain village where Miri lives, and of course the relationships of the girls as they develop. This reading, I appreciated how Hale takes the time to give all the girls at least some personality, and some chance to change and grow, even if lightly sketched in. I loved the evolution of Miri's assumptions (often driven by anger and hurt) and how she would immediately catch herself when perceiving others' anger and hurt, and her attempts to communicate rather than brood for chapters over misunderstandings. I also loved how the girls decided how to deal with the prince coming to choose one of them before he came, and how everything resolved. And the touches of magic were subtle and fun. Such a lovely book! ...more The linder quarries on Mount Eskel make for hard labour, but the villagers who mine it wouldn't trade their life for anything. The linder stone takes skill to extract in whole blocks from the mountainside, and its qualities enable them to converse without speaking. Fourteen year old Miri wants nothing so much as to join her father and older sister in the quarry. But she's small, and her father has forbidden her to set foot in the quarry. Instead, Miri tends the goats; teases her childhood friend, The linder quarries on Mount Eskel make for hard labour, but the villagers who mine it wouldn't trade their life for anything. The linder stone takes skill to extract in whole blocks from the mountainside, and its qualities enable them to converse without speaking. Fourteen year old Miri wants nothing so much as to join her father and older sister in the quarry. But she's small, and her father has forbidden her to set foot in the quarry. Instead, Miri tends the goats; teases her childhood friend, Peder; and wishes on the little miri flowers that she was named after to be allowed to work with everyone else in the quarry. But everything changes the day the traders arrive for the last time before winter, bringing with them an official from the capital of Dunland - a messenger from the King. It has long been a tradition that the priests name the city from which the prince and heir to the throne must choose his bride. This time, causing great shock amongst the noble families of Dunland, the priests have named Mount Eskel - so overlooked it's not even considered a province of Dunland. And so, further down the mountain in an abandoned stone manor house, the Princess Academy is established. Usually a formality, this time the girls aged thirteen to seventeen really must be trained - taught to read and write, how to walk and talk, about history and geography, diplomacy and economics. Most of the girls don't want to become princess, and their families need them back in the village and quarry, but even so, competition sparks amongst them. Who will be princess? Could Miri, who does so well at her studies and was able to make the prince smile, be the one? (And what about Peder?) Yet when a threat comes to the Academy, curtseys and platitudes won't save them - only wits, mountain strength and Miri's determination. This is the first Hale book I've read, and arguably her most popular one. It wasn't what I expected, but really it was better than I expected. It's one of those quiet fantasy books, like General Winston\u2019s Daughter - nothing showy, no loud magic tricks or evil sorcerers or that tedious battle between good and evil (yawn). It also didn't follow those boring fantasy clich\u00e9s that so many authors seem to enjoy perpetuating - a patriarchal social structure, for instance. Men and women work alongside each other in the quarry, and respect each other. Gender doesn't come into it. I got the impression that, despite classic hierarchies and class divisions, the rest of Dunland is much the same. The setting still had that typical medieval flavour, but with new angles and greater equality. Since it's Fantasy , not historical fiction, this is precisely the kind of thing I want to see - and don't get enough of. The story is also disarmingly simple in its style - the prose has that lovely, unburdened quality that's usual in YA and Children's fiction - no fancy adjectives, no heavy-handed descriptions, no long-winded paragraphs: light on its feet, detailed and yet deceptively straight-forward. Perfect for its target age group (9-12) but just as enjoyable for the rest of us. I loved Miri: she was a sympathetic character, a resourceful, intelligent, spirited girl you could really admire. She makes a great role model. The other girls weren't as fleshed-out as I'd have liked, but their characters still came through in small ways. The plot wasn't predictable, and the ending was very sweet. I also loved the small role economics plays in the story, not to mention the power an education gives you - Miri uses her hard-won knowledge from the Academy to improve her village's ability to trade, thus improving the quality of life on the mountain as well as their bargaining power. See, it's educational as well as a fun read! ...more I really liked it when the girls started pulling together and thinking past the fairytale, deciding that was in their best interest. This was such a wonderful fairytale read! A prince, selecting a girl to marry! The Selection? Read this instead! Experience a fantastic adventure to knowledge and True Love with small but Terrible Miri! FULL REVIEW TO COME! This might sound weird, but I have to admit that what attracted me to this book in the first place was that almost every major character was a girl. (Oddly enough, the bad guys are all male, but that is totally beside the point--I do NOT mean to give the impression that this is a girls vs. guys thing, because it's not! --just a random thought that spontaneously occurred to me.) I mean, as a girl who grew up constantly reading stories about boys, it shouldn't be too surprising that I'd eventually This might sound weird, but I have to admit that what attracted me to this book in the first place was that almost every major character was a girl. (Oddly enough, the bad guys are all male, but that is totally beside the point--I do NOT mean to give the impression that this is a girls vs. guys thing, because it's not! --just a random thought that spontaneously occurred to me.) I mean, as a girl who grew up constantly reading stories about boys, it shouldn't be too surprising that I'd eventually begin thirsting for validation of my own gender. Seriously. And without the women-on-women jealousy that is so over-portrayed in media with female characters. That trope had already turned me into a thorough skeptic before I'd even entered middle school. Thanks very much for that, YA. I'd read books with fairly balanced gender characterizations before, but I think Princess Academy is the first one I picked up as a child that was fully and completely female-centric. The main character is female, the best friend is female, the sibling is female, the mentor figure is female. All of them are flawed, with fully developed personalities, and with their own individual story arcs separate from the male characters, and play the most significant roles. So as soon as I picked up I knew it was going to be heaven for me. Childhood reminiscing aside, there were a lot of valuable lessons I took away from this book. The first and foremost being the power of knowledge. Miri is a unique protagonist from your average run-of-the-mill fantasy main characters in that her growth, rather than finding out she's *special* and *chosen*, happens through a process much closer to that of the real world: education. And here I wonder if Shannon Hale happens to have a rare knack for childhood introspection or something, because she portrays so accurately what it feels like to feel helpless all your life, and to finally be able to open your horizons when you finally have access to worldly information. I always feel such joy for Miri when she uses her skills in diplomacy to bargain with her tutor--she's felt all her life as she hasn't belonged, even if only subtly, and for the first time she can use her intelligence to actually make a difference, for herself and for her friends. I can't really overstate how much more empowering this was than the much more common route of 1) finding a hot love interest, or 2) wielding a magic sword. For me as a kid, it meant everything to be assured that the pursuit of knowledge was justified, even necessary. Because part of learning when you grow up is gaining the tools you need to command respect. You can't do that if you're ignorant of the world around you, regardless of how clever or intelligent you are. And gaining knowledge takes work. Miri is not a prodigy, and her years of illiteracy actually hampers her progress. She only succeeds academically through hard work, perseverance, and consolidating the sense of her own identity as well as what she wants in life, the goals of which are constantly conflicting and changing. And the awesome thing about education? You can share it! With lots of people! Since when did we need prophecies about the Chosen One again? I don't know. Recently I've started to get an obsession with stories that tell you that success comes from working together instead of relying on one special lonely hero. I think that kind of story tends to be much more realistic and inclusive, and it brings people together rather than trying to set them apart. And it doesn't have to come at the expense of individuality; Miri is unique in plenty of ways, in creativity and her ability to adapt and apply her knowledge to the practical aspects of life, including changing the economic state of her entire village. Such people exist, but they're special because of the way they affect and inspire the people around them, not because they're symbolically important. Plot wise, this book is impressively put together. There are few coincidences, pretty much none actually, aside from the ending. Everything unfolds in a logical, continuous, and character-driven (should I say Miri-driven?) manner that makes it very easy to follow (and wonderful to reread). The pacing is neither slow nor fast, but for once I find it refreshing to find an author who feels perfectly comfortable with taking her time and letting the story progress at its own speed. And the setting! The descriptions of Mount Eskel, the princess academy, the atmosphere of the ballroom--all of it is done with near-flawless grace and consistency and perfectly combined with the depiction of culture: singing, dancing, \"quarry-speaking,\" food, etc. However, the part of this book that has and will always stay with me is the theme of education, and what women can do with it given the chance. I can't say enough about that. I'm not sure what inspired Hale to write about it because I've never seen it so well done before, but I am so glad she did. ...more I've been reading this to my 8.5 year old daughter at night before bed. She is eating it up - and I am too. In fact - I read ahead just to see what happens. . SHHHHHHHH. Though the title is appropriate, I'm afraid that some people will not pick up this book because they think it is froofy and shallow. . 'Tis not. The protagonist is a real, rich character with an inner life and traits both admirable and unfortunate. The world she lives in is believable and complex economically and socially, and wi I've been reading this to my 8.5 year old daughter at night before bed. She is eating it up - and I am too. In fact - I read ahead just to see what happens. . SHHHHHHHH. Though the title is appropriate, I'm afraid that some people will not pick up this book because they think it is froofy and shallow. . 'Tis not. The protagonist is a real, rich character with an inner life and traits both admirable and unfortunate. The world she lives in is believable and complex economically and socially, and will be understood on many levels depending upon the sophistication of the reader. It is a coming of age story - I believe that the main character is 15-ish. Issues of friendship, love, attraction, ambition, prejudice, and family loyalty loom large, and are treated with sensitivity and insight into the mind of an adolescent girl. Put this book on your list of fast moving stories with strong, smart, resourceful and truly human female leads. Enjoy! ...more I thought this book would be cute, fun, and kind of similar to The Selection. Unfortunately, it was really boring. No action, no adventure, and definitely not enough romance. Even for a children's book, this still felt really flat. It was well-written, certainly, but it just didn't hold my interest. I found this to be a very pleasant story. I\u2019m not exactly sure why some people hate it and a lot of people unreservedly adore it but I did enjoy it, a lot. I loved the little poems at the start of each chapter; they gave such a good feel for this mountain community and its people. I was completely charmed by this culture and its people. There is a very inspiring main protagonist and most of the characters were interesting. I really liked Miri (the main character) and her spunk and her ingenuity, e I found this to be a very pleasant story. I\u2019m not exactly sure why some people hate it and a lot of people unreservedly adore it but I did enjoy it, a lot. I loved the little poems at the start of each chapter; they gave such a good feel for this mountain community and its people. I was completely charmed by this culture and its people. There is a very inspiring main protagonist and most of the characters were interesting. I really liked Miri (the main character) and her spunk and her ingenuity, especially regarding how she was motivated to use her educational opportunities and how she figured out how to communicate with her fellow students and villagers. I think this tale says a lot about feeling like an outsider vs. feeling a sense of belonging, and also about what is important in life. I didn\u2019t really like a particular reveal toward the end because it seemed just a bit like cheating to me, but by the end I guess the way the plot evolved made sense to me and the story from beginning to end felt very satisfying. I\u2019d say that readers can enjoy this book from ages 9 or 10 and all the way up. I have this under speculative fiction and there is a fantasy element, but it\u2019s so subtle that this could almost be considered general fiction or a kind of realistic full length fairy tale (what with the prince and princesses and an unique way of communicating available to the mountain people.) ...more This was probably the 5th Middle Grade book I bought and read (I started with the Newbery winners) and if I'd had any doubts that this genre could have beautiful prose and deep, powerful stories they were erased here. Don't be fooled by the title into thinking this is some fluffy fantasy about pretty dresses and fairy godmothers. The story is based off a fairytale, and there is a slight magical feel, but this is an emotional, rich story about a poor, uneducated mountain village that learns they This was probably the 5th Middle Grade book I bought and read (I started with the Newbery winners) and if I'd had any doubts that this genre could have beautiful prose and deep, powerful stories they were erased here. Don't be fooled by the title into thinking this is some fluffy fantasy about pretty dresses and fairy godmothers. The story is based off a fairytale, and there is a slight magical feel, but this is an emotional, rich story about a poor, uneducated mountain village that learns they are chosen to have a \"princess academy\" to prepare one of their girls to become the next princess. We follow Miri, the youngest and smallest member of her family, who's been deemed by her father to be too fragile to help in the quarries that provide the only income for the village. As she struggles with feelings of uselessness and doubts her father's love, she's shipped off to the new princess academy to learn how to read and write and use proper social etiquette. And while she's there, she has her eyes opened to the power of education and discovers how many ways her life could be better if she applied her newly acquired knowledge. I know that may sound like a simple story, but the plot actually takes a number of surprisingly intense turns that keeps you turning the pages, needing to know what will happen next. And the writing is gorgeous. No really, it's GORGEOUS. Shannon Hale writes the way I *wish* I could write, but I'm just not lyrical or poetic like that. She is a master. *bows* Obviously I love the book and I HIGHLY recommend it. I love all of Shannon Hale's books, but this one is definitely my favorite. ...more I think this may be my favorite Shannon Hale book. The writing style is very much like her other YA books (Goose Girl, Enna Burning, & River Secrets). Also it shares the \"speaking\" theme. What I love most about Princess Academy is the growth the characters experience. Miri began as a scrawny quarry girl who didn't know her place in the world. She developed into a brave, intellegent girl who knows her heart. The road of growth is deep in plot and emotion which makes of a very meaningful and to I think this may be my favorite Shannon Hale book. The writing style is very much like her other YA books (Goose Girl, Enna Burning, & River Secrets). Also it shares the \"speaking\" theme. What I love most about Princess Academy is the growth the characters experience. Miri began as a scrawny quarry girl who didn't know her place in the world. She developed into a brave, intellegent girl who knows her heart. The road of growth is deep in plot and emotion which makes of a very meaningful and touching read. Lovely. Shannon Hale is a master of fantasy. ...more Review originally posted on A Reader of Fictions . On the surface, Princess Academy seems a silly tale, a story of a Prince choosing a bride, an obvious read-a-like for Kiera Cass' The Selection. Of course, that is the crux of the story: the prince of Danland is to choose his bride from among the twenty girls of the proper age in Mount Eskel, a small territory town full of quarriers. The girls are required to spend a year in training for the Prince's coming. However, Princess Academy is so much mo Review originally posted on A Reader of Fictions . On the surface, Princess Academy seems a silly tale, a story of a Prince choosing a bride, an obvious read-a-like for Kiera Cass' The Selection. Of course, that is the crux of the story: the prince of Danland is to choose his bride from among the twenty girls of the proper age in Mount Eskel, a small territory town full of quarriers. The girls are required to spend a year in training for the Prince's coming. However, Princess Academy is so much more than that, and you would be a fool to pass it by because of that expectation. The covers given to Shannon Hale's books market to middle grade readers, which I think is a shame. While middle graders could certainly read this book and enjoy it, so too can teens and adults. There is nothing childish about Hale's writing or the stories she tells. They are, however, free of swearing and sex, which might age them in the eyes of publishers. These books are not just for young folks. When I saw Shannon Hale in person, she spoke to her motivations in becoming a writer for young people. She talked about how much reading meant to her as a child, and how she loved the stories of journeys. She compared that to all of the literary classics she was made to read in college, beautifully composed, but lacking in plot and story. As an author, she aims to compose books that do both, that can be both quality literature and entirely fun to read, told in a classic story arc. To my mind, she succeeds beautifully. One of the largest themes of Princess Academy is that of class. Those in Mount Eskel live far from the rest of Danland. They have their own customs and interests. Their sole source of income is from the mining of linder, the best building stone in the land. Only in Mount Eskel can linder be found, and those that live there build their lives around it. They even have their own form of speech for use within the quarry, which is so loud normal conversation cannot be used. Quarry-speech constitutes the only truly fantastical element of Princess Academy. This ability feels magical and wondrous, and I commend Shannon for devising it. Despite their unique skills, those in Mount Eskel are looked down upon by the lowlanders, the traders that come through town. Seen as stupid blue collar workers, the mountain people get no respect. As such, they have just as little affection for the lowlanders, viewing them solely as hateful people out to mess with hardworking citizens. These tensions can be felt in any society, the gap between the wealthy and the poor. In the Princess Academy, the possible princesses get an opportunity no Mount Eskel person has ever had before: the chance to obtain a traditional education. In Mount Eskel, the learning always ran to the mining of Linder, and other skills necessary to survive on the mountain. No one in the town knew how to read or much of anything about the history of their country. Princess Academy points to the value in book learning and of language, but also indicates the power and beauty of the work of the miners. Both are important, and learning can improve anyone and any profession. Miri, our heroine, is a tiny girl, not strong enough to mine linder, who does not really fit in. Perhaps the most important theme of the book is about realizing one's own strengths. While Miri may have no physical strength, her extraordinary cleverness helps her and others through life. Even that, though, might not be her largest contribution. Miri has a wonderful attitude and the ability to make others laugh. She excels in finding common ground with others, in creating friendships. This makes her such a wonderful, touching heroine. The other girls, too, have real personalities. Unlike The Selection, in which only a couple of girls receive much notice, Shannon manages in this short book, to make sure that we have a good sense for quite a few of the girls. She gives even the most annoying ones a real sense of self, and attributes them with motivations for acting the way they do. In fact, even the evil school marm, who reminds me quite a bit of Umbridge in her disdain for the students and draconian punishments, is not simply a figure of evil. Shannon develops fascinating, lovable, flawed characters. The romance, which I just have to comment on, is so well done. Shannon does not go for the easiest and most obvious routes. Her books always make me feel and give me butterflies of happiness when the couples finally get together. She manages to make me swoon without even writing in a kissing scene. This, my friends, is true skill. This was my second read through Princess Academy and I love it every bit as much as I did on my first time through. Shannon is one of my favorite authors for a reason. ...more (warning: spoilers) Ok, so I hate it when people hype up a book so much that there's no way you can ever enjoy it. That's what happened to this book. Everyone told me I would love it so much, and so when I read it I was, I couldn't help but be...disappointed. It was good, don't get me wrong! I enjoyed it. I read it fast, it was a book that I wanted to find out what was going to happen next. But I found it to be very predictable and it felt very confining. She mentioned that the mountain was beaut (warning: spoilers) Ok, so I hate it when people hype up a book so much that there's no way you can ever enjoy it. That's what happened to this book. Everyone told me I would love it so much, and so when I read it I was, I couldn't help but be...disappointed. It was good, don't get me wrong! I enjoyed it. I read it fast, it was a book that I wanted to find out what was going to happen next. But I found it to be very predictable and it felt very confining. She mentioned that the mountain was beautiful, but it didn't feel beautiful, there's weren't many descriptions of the beautifulness of the mountain, and because of that I couldn't wait to leave the mountain, but unfortunately the action in the book took place in only 2 places at the village or at the academy. That was kind of dull. Even when the bandits threatened to take the girls away, I thought, oh, good, they're finally going to get away from this mountain, but no, they didn't. Ok, there's more things that I was going to say, but it's better saved for a discussion rather than a review. ...more Imag\u00ednense algo como La selecci\u00f3n, pero sin romance y bien escrito :) No me mat\u00f3, pero me gust\u00f3, toca temas un poco raros para un middle grade (\u00a1econom\u00eda? WTF), pero tambi\u00e9n tiene un lindo mensaje de amistad y ser uno mismo. This book is really seriously a great one!! I love how there is so much to the story and how you never want to put it down!!! Old review written in 2008 or something like a million years ago: Everyone who has been or is a teenager has to admit it: one of the most trial times of your life is in your mid- and early teens. If you think about it, these are the times when you have the most conflicts in your life--those with family, friends, neighbors, and probably the greatest, with yourself. Young adult fiction writer Shannon Hale takes a look at these same conflicts. Though the main character of the novel Princess Academy Old review written in 2008 or something like a million years ago: Everyone who has been or is a teenager has to admit it: one of the most trial times of your life is in your mid- and early teens. If you think about it, these are the times when you have the most conflicts in your life--those with family, friends, neighbors, and probably the greatest, with yourself. Young adult fiction writer Shannon Hale takes a look at these same conflicts. Though the main character of the novel Princess Academy lived in an entirely fictional, made-up time and place, she faces, accomplishes, and learns the same things that we have done and do. If you haven't read this novel yet, it's about time you pick it up the next time you visit the library or bookstore. There is much to learn this wonderful tale of young adulthood. Summary: Miri Larendaughter has been living in Danland\u2019s quarry mountain village, Mt. Eskel, for all her fourteen years. While her widower Pa and older sister Marta head to the quarry to carve out the valuable linder, Miri tends her family goats, as she is forbidden from quarry work. She is convinced that she is of no use to the village, until, one day, it is announced that Mt. Eskel is the home of the Prince\u2019s bride, and all young ladies, from 12 to 17, are to be taught and disciplined in an academy. Here, Miri encounters several obstacles, including the cruelty of their tutor, Olana, and the unkindness of the other academy girls. Miri learns her own gifts, and is especially recognized by Prince Stefan himself. But does Miri really want to marry the prince and become a lowlander for life, or should she stay in her mountain village where here childhood friend is? Thoughts: I LOVE this book! Although it is a work of fantasy, all is brought to life by the fantastic lyrical writing. There is a reason why this is a Newbery Honor book, though I personally believe that this should have won the Newbery Medal. Pros: Everything. The writing. The storyline. The characters. The little songs at the beginning of each chapter. Like I said: EVERYTHING. Cons: Nothing much. It was such an innocent, cute book, and the only thing bad about it was that it ended! I wanted more! A sequel would be lovely. Grading : Plot : 10/10 (very intriguing!) Characters : 10/10 (characters are very relatable) Writing : 10/10 (it\u2019s Shannon Hale, so obviously it\u2019s going to be awesome writing) Overall : 10/10 (one of my favorites!) Also Recommended : - Half Magic by Edward Eager - Harry Potter by J.K. Rowling - The Legend of Holly Claus by Brittney Ryan . For more reviews like this one, please visit my review blog, Butterfly Forest . ...more Originally reviewed here . Unfortunately, Princess Academy is one of those books for which my enjoyment suffered because of the format I chose. Now, I\u2019m not saying I didn\u2019t enjoy Princess Academy, I most certainly did, but I would also almost certainly have enjoyed it more had I read it. The audiobook of Princess Academy was produced by Full Cast Audio, and like their name, they use a full cast to read their books. Instead of a book narrated from different perspectives using various narrators (whi Originally reviewed here . Unfortunately, Princess Academy is one of those books for which my enjoyment suffered because of the format I chose. Now, I\u2019m not saying I didn\u2019t enjoy Princess Academy, I most certainly did, but I would also almost certainly have enjoyed it more had I read it. The audiobook of Princess Academy was produced by Full Cast Audio, and like their name, they use a full cast to read their books. Instead of a book narrated from different perspectives using various narrators (which I am fine with), Princess Academy had a main narrator for the text, and then each character had a different cast member voicing them. The main narrator, Laura Credidio was fine, but I was uncomfortable with the structure of the dialog. I\u2019ve never listened to a book like this, and was trying to push myself out of my comfort zone. It wasn\u2019t terrible, but I\u2019m happy to retreat back to what I know I like. I think where the full cast structure hit me most, was in my ability to like Miri. The girl doing her dialog made her come across as very whiny. As such, I wasn\u2019t really able to root for her the way I normally would such a character. I did think that most of the other voice actors did a good job, this was just clearly not the format for me. Princess Academy was a very cute and touching non-traditional fairy tale type story. It was funny, when I picked it up, I was actually thinking that the premise sounded a bit like the forthcoming book The Selection. However, Princess Academy panned out nothing like The Bachelor, for which I was quite grateful. I loved that the academy gave these girls a chance to come into their own, and find meaning and purpose in their lives beyond what they had expected or what was planned out for the girl selected for marriage by the prince. In fact, the prince was such a menial part of this story, it was very little romance and a lot of girl power! The girls, Miri in particular, show their ingenuity by applying the facts and information they learn at the academy to better the lives of their townspeople, and their own lives in learning. The magical element in Princess Academy, quarry speak, is so unique and wonderful I absolutely loved it. The concept was that workers in the quarry had this method of communicating non-verbally with one another to invoke memories that elicited messages or warnings. Miri, who has never worked in the quarry, has felt as if she were lacking and not really a part of her community. With determination and perseverance she is able to better understand and manipulate quarry speak, allowing it to play an important roll throughout the girls\u2019 story. Princess Academy was a charming story about finding one\u2019s place, following one\u2019s heart, and the power of relationships. Certainly a recommended read, and surely an enjoyable audiobook for those who don\u2019t mind this unique narrative structure. Maybe it\u2019s better for kids who might otherwise have a difficult time keeping the characters strait by voice? I\u2019m not sure. ...more After hearing a number of people recommend Shannon Hale's The Princess Academy, I couldn't resist trying it out myself. I found it to be a delightful read, perfect for children and young adults, and rather engaging even for us 'big people.' More than your average fairy-tale, the novel creates a protagonist that exceeds the usual boundries. The premise of the novel is fairy-tale typical. When the priests of Danland determine that the prince's bride will come from the slopes of Mt. Eskel, an acad After hearing a number of people recommend Shannon Hale's The Princess Academy, I couldn't resist trying it out myself. I found it to be a delightful read, perfect for children and young adults, and rather engaging even for us 'big people.' More than your average fairy-tale, the novel creates a protagonist that exceeds the usual boundries. The premise of the novel is fairy-tale typical. When the priests of Danland determine that the prince's bride will come from the slopes of Mt. Eskel, an academy is set up to permit potential brides to learn the knowledge and manners of the court. Young Miri is one of the twenty girls taken from the quarry-rich village down the mountain. As she learns more about life beyond what she has yet experienced, she finds herself struggling with her desire to marry the prince. She wants to help her family to have a better life, but she also loves her home and does not wish to leave. When bandits capture the school, Miri must use not only her book knowledge but also the knowledge she has gained about herself to rescue herself and her friends. Although the novel has a fairy-tale premise, Hale goes beyond the simple story and creates three dimensional characters that are both realistic and engaging. The headmistress appears cruel and overly harsh, but by the end of the novel we recognize her motivation. Miri's desire to \"marry the prince\" and leave he rhumble home is both typical and human, but she also struggles with her love of Mt. Eskel. And though the motivations of one of the more spiteful girls is rather psychologically typical - bad childhood and all that - it is also presented in a credible light that makes it not completely trite. What I most enjoyed about this novel, however, was the way that Miri uses the knowledge gleaned from the academy not just to acquire a husband, but instead to improve life for her village and her family. Through her studies and desire to read, she finds that the villagers have long been cheated, and uses that information to improve life for all. When she realizes that her older sister and the boys (and even the parents!) also wish to learn, she sets up an academy in her village so all can study. In doing so, she teaches young readers that even children have power to apply what they learn, if they but seek it; that knowledge and study both have real-world applications and can make life better now instead of just 'after graduation.' The young women are empowered by their mind and by exploring and expanding on their natural gifts and talents, and these are the things that really matter. In short, rather than just being a fairy tale where the prince is astounded by beauty, The Princess Academy encourages young adults - especially young women, who are the most likely target audience - to apply themselves and to seek benefits from that application now rather than later. Between this premise and the engaging and excellent writing style that makes the story live in the reader's mind, this is a book I would recommend to anyone. ...more Literary academics love to debate definitions. When did the Victorian era of literature really start? To which nation should an ex patriot\u2019s writing be accredited? What is young adult fiction? Stephenie Meyer, one of the most recently popular young adult authors, noted her opinion that young adult books merely have young adult protagonists, while adult books have adult protagonists. That may be true, but YA plots also usually involve some kind of bildungsroman. Princess Academy is no exception. T Literary academics love to debate definitions. When did the Victorian era of literature really start? To which nation should an ex patriot\u2019s writing be accredited? What is young adult fiction? Stephenie Meyer, one of the most recently popular young adult authors, noted her opinion that young adult books merely have young adult protagonists, while adult books have adult protagonists. That may be true, but YA plots also usually involve some kind of bildungsroman. Princess Academy is no exception. This Newberry Honor Book follows the coming-of-age of its protagonist, Miri, as well as several of her acquaintances. Motherless Miri lives on Mount Eskel in a small mining community quite separate from the rest of the kingdom of which it is a part, Danland. Though everyone in the village except the very young and the very old labor in the quarry, Miri\u2019s father will not allow her to do so. This exclusion leaves Miri doubting her contribution and value to the small and indigent village. One autumn day a royal messenger comes and announces that in one year, the prince of Danland would come to Mount Eskel to choose his princess from among the village girls. In the meantime, the village girls were to be sent to the Princess Academy to prepare themselves to be princesses. The academy not only prepares the future princess for her duties, but it opens up a new world for the isolated mountain girls. Miri\u2019s world is forever altered when she discovers words and finds her place in the village. Miri is a lovable and believable protagonist with quirks and yearnings and intelligence. Shannon Hale\u2019s prose does not call attention to itself. The book is quickly paced, and the resolution is somewhat surprising but foreseeable. In fact, some of the foreshadowing was, to me, a little too transparent. I knew in generalities how the book was going to end only a few chapters in, but the story was so good that I wanted to see how the characters arrived at that ending. In the end, a reader does not need a precise category in which to place this book. A place on my bookshelf is good enough for me. ...more The main character is Miri (named for a moutain flower), who lives in the poor mountains of a rich kingdom. None of the mountain people can read or write, and their only source of income is a product of the mountain itself, which they have to mine, and they're dependent on traders who come from the lowlands with basic goods to swap for the precious mountain stone. The king's priests determine that the prince's future bride will come from Miri's mountain village, so all the eligible young girls h The main character is Miri (named for a moutain flower), who lives in the poor mountains of a rich kingdom. None of the mountain people can read or write, and their only source of income is a product of the mountain itself, which they have to mine, and they're dependent on traders who come from the lowlands with basic goods to swap for the precious mountain stone. The king's priests determine that the prince's future bride will come from Miri's mountain village, so all the eligible young girls have to attend an \"academy\" to learn courtly graces so that the young prince can come at the end of a year to choose his princess. Miri and her classmates learn to read, among other things, and in a book she \"borrows\" from the teacher, Miri finds out the actual value of the mountain stone and how much richer her village should be if trading was fair. In the end, Miri realizes her own true worth as well. (Ha, see what I did there?) She is a scrappy girl who hasn't really decided whether she wants to marry the unknown prince or stay in her village with her family (and close friend Peder, an older boy who understands her better than anyone else.) The plot and execution are brilliant, and the tiny details are beautiful. It's not your average princess story, but even that's done in a completely unexpected way. <3 ...more Another book that makes me go, \" Where have you been all my life ?\" Expect lots of similes and other figures of speech, lovely and well drawn characters, and a fantasy setting that feels real as the page. Miri fights against prejudice and ambition and worries about things like fitting in and how important she really is to her family. She struggles to know the difference between being happy and being chosen for something important, and, as a reader, I struggled, too. I really wanted Miri to be chos Another book that makes me go, \" Where have you been all my life ?\" Expect lots of similes and other figures of speech, lovely and well drawn characters, and a fantasy setting that feels real as the page. Miri fights against prejudice and ambition and worries about things like fitting in and how important she really is to her family. She struggles to know the difference between being happy and being chosen for something important, and, as a reader, I struggled, too. I really wanted Miri to be chosen as princess. I really wanted Miri to stay Miri, out on the hills with the goats. Perhaps my favorite angle was how Miri learned things at the academy that helped her help her family and village. School rules! \u201cIt doesn't seem to matter what we think...The prince will come up here and look at us as if we're barrels in a trader's wagon. And if I'm salt pork and he doesn't care for salt pork, then there's nothing I can do.\u201d ...more I love Shannon Hale - and get sucked right in to her books from the beginning. This book is certainly no exception. I'm trying to remember though - I have read a book similar to Shannon Hale's style - it was about a girl stuck up in a tower with her maiden. Does this book sound familiar to any of you? If so, can you remind me of the author? I'd like to check out more of those books. Nevermind...I just found it. It's called Book of a Thousand Days and yes, it is written by Shannon Hale and not so I love Shannon Hale - and get sucked right in to her books from the beginning. This book is certainly no exception. I'm trying to remember though - I have read a book similar to Shannon Hale's style - it was about a girl stuck up in a tower with her maiden. Does this book sound familiar to any of you? If so, can you remind me of the author? I'd like to check out more of those books. Nevermind...I just found it. It's called Book of a Thousand Days and yes, it is written by Shannon Hale and not someone else. ...more This is the greatest book I've ever ever ever ever read. It takes place a longggg time ago in Scandanavia and it is so like real life it's scary. It very interseting, a book you can't put down. My friend Chris Dufort LOVES this book. He is has every bit of Princess Academy merchandise that he can find. He told me that he has read this book 5 or 6 times. I took him up on it and I liked it. This was one of the first (contemporary-written) fantasies I ever read, and I was swept away. Fantasy isn't my favorite genre, but I still found this story fascinating.<---C>Knut</---C>", "Title": "Princess Academy"},
