{"Comments": "<---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> is a fabulous story teller. She has a gift for sharing compelling stories, and for weaving intricate plot lines and interesting characters into a rich literary tapestry. In <+++>Second Glance</+++> Ms.<---F> Picoult has reached new highs</---F>. She introduces us to many different characters and story lines; she intertwines those characters to tell one fascinating fictional story; and she throws in a lesson about American history that is quite disturbing and educational. In <+++>Second Glance</+++> Picoult writes wit Jodi Picoult is a fabulous story teller. She has a gift for sharing compelling stories, and for weaving intricate plot lines and interesting characters into a rich literary tapestry. In Second Glance Ms. Picoult has reached new highs. She introduces us to many different characters and story lines; she intertwines those characters to tell one fascinating fictional story; and she throws in a lesson about American history that is quite disturbing and educational. In Second Glance Picoult writes with a magical descriptive quality that is reminiscent of Alice Hoffman,<---M> but undeniably Picoult in its detail</---M>, compassion, and intricacy. She talks of love and romance; reality and truth; guilt and responsibility; and science and the supernatural. Second Glance is, on one level, a ghost story. When a developer tries to build on a piece of land in Comtosook, Vermont, strange things begin to happen. The ground freezes in August; the sky rains down rose petals; and the home that is being demolished somehow rebuilds itself at night. Ross Wakeman, a retired \u201cghost-hunter\u201d, haunted by the death of his own fianc\ufffd, agrees to study the construction site for proof of ghosts. His work not only forces the locals to consider the existence of ghosts, but leads to the re-opening of a 70 year old murder case. More than just a ghost story, Second Glance also teaches us about the horrors of the 1920s-1930s Vermont Eugenics project. In the 20s and 30s, some \u201clearned\u201d men in Vermont wanted to \u201cpreserve the state\u2019s rural charm\u201d by systematically eliminating \u201cbad\u201d genes from the reproductive gene pool. Violent tendencies, simple-mindedness, loose morals, etc, were believed to be the result of a poor genetic makeup, and Vermont\u2019s population could be \u201ccleansed\u201d by eliminating these bad genes through forced sterilization. The local Abenaki Indians, having their own language and lifestyle, were victimized by the Eugenics laws, and often committed to mental hospitals and jails, and forced to undergo sterilization. Beyond these two stories, Picoult shares several love stories. Ross is consumed by his love for Aimee, his fianc\ufffd, and is over-ridden by guilt that he could not save her from death. He flirts with death as a way of re-connecting with Aimee, and feels trapped on earth until he is smitten by a new mystery lady. Shelby loves her brother Ross, is completely devoted to her son Ethan, but longs for romantic love. Meredith loves her daughter Lucy and her grandmother Ruby, but is too absorbed in her work to find time for romantic love. Cissy loves her husband and her unborn child, but has difficulty in loving herself. While I strongly recommend this novel, I find myself unable to summarize the plot. The story has twists and turns, rich detail, and interwoven story lines; and I fear that in attempting to summarize it, I would do a great disservice to the novel and to Jodi Picoult. Second Glance is at once a ghost story, a love story, and a murder mystery. It questions truth and reality, and opens the door to an acceptance of the supernatural. Second Glance also is a historical novel, sharing the sad truth of the Vermont Eugenics project and how that project effected the Abenaki. In the end, Second Glance is a compelling novel that should attract many readers and keep them up at night turning pages. ...more First of all I just have to say that this may be one of the worst Jodi Picoult books I've ever read--one of the most utterly and completely ridiculous storylines in her line of books so far. First off, the beginning is overwhemingly confusing---so many different characters I coudn't keep my focus. This was a huge flaw. Second, all the history and scientific crap really bored me out of my gord. Would have made this read so much smoother if she cut it down about 75 percent. It also rubbed me the w First of all I just have to say that this may be one of the worst Jodi Picoult books I've ever read--one of the most utterly and completely ridiculous storylines in her line of books so far. First off, the beginning is overwhemingly confusing---so many different characters I coudn't keep my focus. This was a huge flaw. Second, all the history and scientific crap really bored me out of my gord. Would have made this read so much smoother if she cut it down about 75 percent. It also rubbed me the wrong way the character Ross would blantantly walk around in his underwear around his sister...was there a need for this description? Sounds like incest to me. The only part I found even remotely interesting about this book was when they went back in time. After that, I found it painfully hard to get through this novel. Overall it was tedious, predictable, and unbelievable. Don't get me wrong, Jodi Picoult is a gifted writer...but her concept for this novel was a little far fetched. ...more I had trouble getting into this, at first. I found the changing pov choppy. But about halfway through the book I found myself caught up in the story. As usual her work is frightening in how it describes the myriad positive and negative emotions involved in motherhood. I really like Jodi Picoult, but the problem with reading many books by one author is that you start to recognize certain patterns and be able to predict the outcome of any given situation. I knew very early on what happened to Cecilia's baby, as I'm sure most readers did. I was also pretty sure I knew how Cecilia died because of a riddle I learned in elementary school. When the truth was revealed and I found I was right, I wasn't quite sure how to feel about it. I'm not trying to brag or anythin I really like Jodi Picoult, but the problem with reading many books by one author is that you start to recognize certain patterns and be able to predict the outcome of any given situation. I knew very early on what happened to Cecilia's baby, as I'm sure most readers did. I was also pretty sure I knew how Cecilia died because of a riddle I learned in elementary school. When the truth was revealed and I found I was right, I wasn't quite sure how to feel about it. I'm not trying to brag or anything. In fact, when I read something I like to try not to predict the ending. I like to be surprised. Unfortunately, Jodi Picoult seems incapable of surprising me anymore. Still, it was a good book. It was interesting and well written, as always. There are some technical details that make me shudder, like the fact that she's so comma-happy, but I still enjoyed the book and recommend it highly. ...more I knew as I was sitting in a crowd of over 200 Jodi Picoult fans listening to her recount her field research for this book, it was going to be a novel that would have me looking over my shoulder taking a Second Glance for paranormal presence. This intricately layered novel does a perfect job of demonstrating Picoult's fantastical writing abilities. She is a master at her craft, and Second Glance has proven once again that Picoult can take on any subject matter, objectively present the facts for I knew as I was sitting in a crowd of over 200 Jodi Picoult fans listening to her recount her field research for this book, it was going to be a novel that would have me looking over my shoulder taking a Second Glance for paranormal presence. This intricately layered novel does a perfect job of demonstrating Picoult's fantastical writing abilities. She is a master at her craft, and Second Glance has proven once again that Picoult can take on any subject matter, objectively present the facts for both sides, and challenge the reader to question their belief system. Absolutely brilliant! To even begin to attempt to describe this novel, I have to say, I will not give it the justice it deserves. So, at its basic level, Second Glance takes the reader on a journey to show how love can travel through time and maybe... just maybe there are supernatural forces out there ensuring it travels safely. The story also blends the controversial subject of eugenics in the mix; and as a reader you can't help but wonder the possibilities of genetic diagnosis and replacement therapy with a proper blend of government and ethical organizational involvement. Picoult takes a myriad of subjects and ideas and wraps it around a paranormal theme; and despite the odd mix it blends just perfectly and challenges the reader to not discount the possibilities. Once again\u2026 absolutely brilliant. This was a perfect choice for a book club discussion as it offered the avenue to discuss ghost stories, genetic testing, boundaries and possibilities. As a disclaimer, I must note, this is probably one of Picoult's more complex reads, but if you're already a fan, I can say with certainty, you will not be disappointed. ...more Again, another book for me where you have to suspend your belief now and again. But a good story if you are easily amused. The end was the hardest to swallow. Ross Wakeman has repeatedly puts his life at risk after the love of his life dies. When nothing works, and a job with a paranormal investigator brings him no closer to his former love, he moves in with his sister. As chance would have it, strange phenomena are plaguing the town, and Ross is drawn into an investigation of a piece of land th Again, another book for me where you have to suspend your belief now and again. But a good story if you are easily amused. The end was the hardest to swallow. Ross Wakeman has repeatedly puts his life at risk after the love of his life dies. When nothing works, and a job with a paranormal investigator brings him no closer to his former love, he moves in with his sister. As chance would have it, strange phenomena are plaguing the town, and Ross is drawn into an investigation of a piece of land that local Abenaki Indians claim is an old burial ground. In the process, he meets lovely Lia Beaumont, who has some mysterious connection to sinister goings-on 70 years before in Comtosook. Add a bunch of eccentric characters, and Picoult tries to spin a suspenseful otherworldly tale that touches on insight into the human spirit and the depths of true love. ...more Ross Wakeman became a ghost hunter after he lost his fiancee, Aimee, in a terrible car accident. He has never really believed in the paranormal, but he forces himself to take on the career so that one day he could be reunited with his lost love. He moves in with his motherly older sister Shelby, along with her son Ethan who is suffering from XP (<---B>xeroderma pigmentosum</---B>), in Comtosook, Vermont. There have been rumors floating around of supernatural activity in Comtosook. Several people believe it i Ross Wakeman became a ghost hunter after he lost his fiancee, Aimee, in a terrible car accident. He has never really believed in the paranormal, but he forces himself to take on the career so that one day he could be reunited with his lost love. He moves in with his motherly older sister Shelby, along with her son Ethan who is suffering from XP (xeroderma pigmentosum), in Comtosook, Vermont. There have been rumors floating around of supernatural activity in Comtosook. Several people believe it is due to a land dispute over a sacred Indial burial ground that is causing the strange occurrences. One day while Ross is investigating during the night he meets the mysterious Lia, who truly wakens him from his depressed mindset after Aimee's death. Her appearance causes Ross to discover startling revelations about Comtosook and its' ancestry. Jodi Picoult is a talented author. All the information in Second Glance is presented nicely and accurately, even if it must have required months to research each painstaking detail. I learned a lot about ghosts, and the most interesting nonfiction fact that I got from the book was the eugenics project going on in Vermont around 1930's. I thought only Hitler tried sterilizing humans he didn't see fit to live, but it turns out that people in the USA were doing the same thing. Go figure. Back to the book. Overall, I loved it. Jodi Picoult delivers developed characters, and interesting plot, and a completely original story. Like always. However, for some reason I felt as if the multiple point of views in Second Glance were a bit choppy, especially at the beginning. This isn't a problem that is prevalent in Picoult's other novels, but I don't know what happened here. Also, it took a while for the conflict to settle in. Still, I would highly recommend Second Glance , especially to Science Fiction and Paranormal Fiction lovers. ...more Do you believe in ghosts? or in what we call paranormal activity? I used to watch a show called 'Ghost Hunters'. As the name suggests, in this show they hunt ghosts from attics and old mansions; they kind of showed us the presence of an energy in these places with the help of some devices. I was actually piqued by the idea. I always believed in the unknown energy around us; something like the existence of a sixth sense. But when I picked 'Second Glance' to read I never expected the story to be s Do you believe in ghosts? or in what we call paranormal activity? I used to watch a show called 'Ghost Hunters'. As the name suggests, in this show they hunt ghosts from attics and old mansions; they kind of showed us the presence of an energy in these places with the help of some devices. I was actually piqued by the idea. I always believed in the unknown energy around us; something like the existence of a sixth sense. But when I picked 'Second Glance' to read I never expected the story to be something like that. My first thought about Second Glance was that its just a book in which the existence of ghosts and invisible forces on earth are going to be questioned and in the end science is going to win. I was so sure! but was I wrong! This is my first Jodi Picoult book. I have 2 of her books in my 'to-read' list; 'My Sister's Keeper and 'Nineteen Minutes'. But apparently I decided to read Second Glance and this book was a wake up call!. Second Glance stirred my beliefs on undefined forces of nature. Don't think I m delusional but its the truth. ...more This was an amazing read! Reading this story re-confirms why Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors. I believe it's one of her finest. Not only do I sincerely enjoy her prose and expressive style, but I also love the fact that every time I read a Jodi Picoult book I learn something new and interesting. In this case she weaves the issues of eugenics and genetics into an original story of a love lost. There are so many layers to this book, that\u2019s what's so fascinating. The fact that there was a This was an amazing read! Reading this story re-confirms why Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors. I believe it's one of her finest. Not only do I sincerely enjoy her prose and expressive style, but I also love the fact that every time I read a Jodi Picoult book I learn something new and interesting. In this case she weaves the issues of eugenics and genetics into an original story of a love lost. There are so many layers to this book, that\u2019s what's so fascinating. The fact that there was a multitude of unconnected characters introduced in the first part of the book didn\u2019t confuse me at all, on the contrary, it intrigued me. It\u2019s just thrilling when you find out how they are connected or related as the story unfolds. In that sense, it is a page turner. Also I found the ghost angle of the story totally believable. My favorite character was definitely the 103 year-old Abenaki, Az Thompson. I will highly recommend this book to all my friends. ...more This was another one of my attempts at listening to a book on cd while in the car. Unfortunately this one was a flop. I'm used to Jodi Picoult using lots of characters in her stories because I have read two of her other books. However this one just never seemed to gel in anyway. I have to admit that I only made it about 2 chapters into the book before I completely lost interest. The characters did not seem like that needed to have any connection to each other what so ever. I felt like I needed t This was another one of my attempts at listening to a book on cd while in the car. Unfortunately this one was a flop. I'm used to Jodi Picoult using lots of characters in her stories because I have read two of her other books. However this one just never seemed to gel in anyway. I have to admit that I only made it about 2 chapters into the book before I completely lost interest. The characters did not seem like that needed to have any connection to each other what so ever. I felt like I needed to make a character list just to keep everyone straight. This book is called second glance but I don't recommend even giving it a first one. ...more This is another fantastic novel from Jodi Picoult. I've read most of her novels and this is one of her best ones. The story was beautifully written and kept me enthralled and captivated the whole way through with its tale of ghosts, murder and family scandal. It wasn't what I was expecting and totally different from her usual books but I loved it. There were so many twists and turns in the novel that I was never sure what was going to happen next. Five stars. Not my favorite Picoult novel, but there's some good stuff here. I wasn't familiar with the whole eugenics thing prior to reading this book. Appalling! Based on real events. I liked this line: \"Men...were like an accessory, like a belt or purse or shoes. You didn't necessarily need one to complete your look. Granted, if you walked around barefoot you got a few odd stares every now and then, but the important parts of you were covered.\" Strange things are happening in Comtosook, Vermont. It's August and temperature is fluctuating wildly, rose petals are falling like snow, and large chunks of land are freezing. We meet Ross, a young man devastated by the death of his fianc\u00e9, who has attempted suicide numerous times in hopes of reuniting with her. He takes a job with a company that investigates paranormal activities, hoping to be able to reconnect with her. The company is hired to investigate a controversial building site, which Strange things are happening in Comtosook, Vermont. It's August and temperature is fluctuating wildly, rose petals are falling like snow, and large chunks of land are freezing. We meet Ross, a young man devastated by the death of his fianc\u00e9, who has attempted suicide numerous times in hopes of reuniting with her. He takes a job with a company that investigates paranormal activities, hoping to be able to reconnect with her. The company is hired to investigate a controversial building site, which the local Abenaki Indians claim is an indian burial ground. The owner of the land, ironically, is an old, somewhat senile man who was involved in a 1930s eugenics project that nearly eradicated the Abenaki Indians. Ross moves in with his sister, Shelby whose son, Ethan, is allergic to the sun. The idea of living such an upside-life intrigued me -- sleeping during the day and staying up all night. But they were isolated because of it and I was glad when the investigation brought a law enforcement officer into her life. I had never read a book by Jodi Picoult and thought I should, since she's so hugely popular. She deals with complex subjects well and is a good storyteller. ...more I liked this enough to possibly read another of JP's books. I think it could have been cut down by 100 pages. The writing was good, but at times excessively flowery. Also, I'll never understand how people can meet at the top of a page and be absolutely in love by the time you reach the bottom. I was so torn with this. I am an enormous Jodi Picoult fan - she is the reason I have such a love for books, so I wanted to love this like I love all of her books. Sadly, I just didn't. The first flaw for me was the huge amount of characters introduced so early on - and add to the fact that they are all in some way linked, I just couldn't keep up. And then, the storyline. This was such a wonderful concept which was once again just lost on me. Far fetched, complicated, over the top and way too in I was so torn with this. I am an enormous Jodi Picoult fan - she is the reason I have such a love for books, so I wanted to love this like I love all of her books. Sadly, I just didn't. The first flaw for me was the huge amount of characters introduced so early on - and add to the fact that they are all in some way linked, I just couldn't keep up. And then, the storyline. This was such a wonderful concept which was once again just lost on me. Far fetched, complicated, over the top and way too intricate. A shame but by no means a reflection on Picoult. She is gold. ...more http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/6... Having only discovered the work of Jodi Picoult just over two years ago, this is already the eighth title that I have read. I think it is therefore safe to say that I enjoy her novels. This one is a ghost story and although I do not disbelieve in them I am somewhat sceptical. Seeing is believing so you never know, maybe one day. I think therefore that my scepticism was the reason that I was long way into the story nearly two hundred pages before I really be http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/6... Having only discovered the work of Jodi Picoult just over two years ago, this is already the eighth title that I have read. I think it is therefore safe to say that I enjoy her novels. This one is a ghost story and although I do not disbelieve in them I am somewhat sceptical. Seeing is believing so you never know, maybe one day. I think therefore that my scepticism was the reason that I was long way into the story nearly two hundred pages before I really began to appreciate properly what was going on. Once the storyline made sense I began to enjoy it much more, although I would not say it was amongst my favourites. Although the author herself said in August 2008, that Second Glance her tenth novel wrritten in 2003, to date was her personal favourite. Although the book is a work of fiction the work of the Vermont Eugenics Project actually exsisted as did the Sterilization Law of 1931. A disturbing practice to prevent problem citizens reproducing, similar to the plans of the Nazis for racial cleansing! Once again Jodi Picoult impresses me with her choice of a controversial subject to base a novel on. Ghosts, Abenaki Indians and Eugenics Research link the characters and the periods of 1932 and 2001 together in an excellent example of mixing fact and fiction and the past with the present. There are so many twists and turns in the story that I was never quite sure what was going to happen next. I am only sorry that it took me so long to sort all the characters out in the early part of the book as once it all slipped into place it was a great read. I may well have given up if I had not already been a fan of Jodi Picoult and that would have been a shame. ...more As much as Picoult is a storyteller...she is also very good at writing history. She was able to intertwine so many important subjects into this book- that I had to remind myself that I was really only reading one novel and not twelve short stories. AHHH...This book was so good with so many twists and turns. There are so many characters in this book that I had a difficult time keeping up--but eventually they all intertwine for a purpose. It was eerie, scandalish, poetic, exaggerated, and right on As much as Picoult is a storyteller...she is also very good at writing history. She was able to intertwine so many important subjects into this book- that I had to remind myself that I was really only reading one novel and not twelve short stories. AHHH...This book was so good with so many twists and turns. There are so many characters in this book that I had a difficult time keeping up--but eventually they all intertwine for a purpose. It was eerie, scandalish, poetic, exaggerated, and right on the mark at the same time--- very very sad at times, also alarming because Picoult points out that History does indeed repeat itself no matter how much we want to believe that we learn from history. I especially love to read her acknowledgments and notes at the end of her writing- because she has a way of explaining or pulling together things that are happening in the real world to what happened in the book. Bravo Jodi- you got me again. My favorite passage: At some time or another, everyone was failed by this world. Disappointment was the one thing humans had in common....trapped in the whirlpool of what might have been, you might not be able to drag yourself out- but you could be saved by someone else who reached in.....Heroes didn't leap from tall buildings or stop bullets with an outstretched hand, they didn't wear boots and capes. They bled, and they bruised, and their superpowers were as simple as listening, or loving. Heroes were ordinary people who knew that even if their own lives were impossibly knotted, they could untangle someone else's. And maybe that one act could lead someone to rescue you right back. ...more I grabbed this novel because I am a Picoult fan, and while I heard mixed reviews from others, I found I thoroughly enjoyed the novel. There is twisting, winding plot- there is a ghost story, love stories of different kinds of love, an exposure of a dark secret in American History, and since it is a Picoult novel it touches on a sensitive topic- this time stem cell research. The dark secret has to do with something called Eugenics, developing perfect people and the sterilizing of those deemed le I grabbed this novel because I am a Picoult fan, and while I heard mixed reviews from others, I found I thoroughly enjoyed the novel. There is twisting, winding plot- there is a ghost story, love stories of different kinds of love, an exposure of a dark secret in American History, and since it is a Picoult novel it touches on a sensitive topic- this time stem cell research. The dark secret has to do with something called Eugenics, developing perfect people and the sterilizing of those deemed less than desirable candidates for procreation. This mainly occurred in Vermont, but I was disturbed to find out that this project started in 1910 at the Cold Spring Harbor lab which is two towns over from my current residence. Picoult listed all the research information/websites at the end of the novel, so while you are thinking I hope she made this up, it is sadly tree. I think you have to appreciate a ghost story in order to enjoy the novel as well, and since my family and I experienced some of the events (ie: finding change after a loved one passed), I could let myself get just a little freaked out by the ghost story aspect . I also enjoyed the way the characters end up all connected to each other, but incidentally his is also why I did not give the book five stars; in the beginning of the novel there are so many characters and perspectives, even for a Picoult novel, that it would have been easy to get lost or disinterested, but I hung on because I knew she would connect their lives somehow, as is her style. ...more I used to read a lot of mystery novels, specially those which are plot dependent, when I was a kid so maybe that caused me to treat any given dates and little details as CLUES on which the mystery can turn, to always try to guess what could possibly happen. And I tend to do the math instinctively of ages and dates. Its hard to stop that terrierlike reading mode. This book did not survive the terrier attack, way the plot turns just does not work with the dates and ages given. Maybe it was a bug i I used to read a lot of mystery novels, specially those which are plot dependent, when I was a kid so maybe that caused me to treat any given dates and little details as CLUES on which the mystery can turn, to always try to guess what could possibly happen. And I tend to do the math instinctively of ages and dates. It\u00b4s hard to stop that terrierlike reading mode. This book did not survive the terrier attack, way the plot turns just does not work with the dates and ages given. Maybe it was a bug in reworking an old abandoned draft, but my feeling was that is was more a symptom, that the author just did not think it that important, that the focus is to put as much possible emotional drama and tension into some hot topic she researched and wants to write about. I felt cheated, like being presented with some politician\u00b4s bombastic rhetoric while showing signs of being ignorant about important numbers or facts. As positives, and trying to balance the pitiful one star ( goodreads really really needs a lot more room to specify all degrees of \"I didn\u00b4t like it\"), as with her other books, the writing is impressively easy and addictive to follow. The research was interesting. But in the end Picoult\u00b4s formula is a little bit off to be truly my cup of tea. ...more If you're going to write a book from the perspective of a dozen different characters, then you better do it right. Unfortunately, Picoult doesn't do it right. Not even close. I only got as far as Chapter 3 or so and couldn't stomach the obviously dated speech and unconvincing behaviors of the characters. No self-respecting teenage boy would use the phrase \"As if\" or still use a Game Boy. And how can Ross just abandon his camera equipment most likely worth thousands of dollars and blithely refer t If you're going to write a book from the perspective of a dozen different characters, then you better do it right. Unfortunately, Picoult doesn't do it right. Not even close. I only got as far as Chapter 3 or so and couldn't stomach the obviously dated speech and unconvincing behaviors of the characters. No self-respecting teenage boy would use the phrase \"As if\" or still use a Game Boy. And how can Ross just abandon his camera equipment most likely worth thousands of dollars and blithely refer to them as replaceable. On the minimum wage he was getting? On what planet? The only storyline that had some potential was the doctor, Meredith, and her work with genetic engineering embryos. There was nothing about this book that felt believable, I just kept thinking \"Who would do that? Who would say that?!\" No one. I actually really liked My Sister's Keeper so I was really disappointed to trudge through brief paragraphs of characters that I didn't give a damn about. Who the hell is Winks again? Who is Lucy? Who the hell is Stuart? Whatever, pass. ...more Absolutely amazing. Bold and determined characters all throughout. If you dig into my archive, you\u2019ll find only two measly Jodi Picoult reviews, one of which is amongst my favourite books ever, Keeping Faith, (review for which is here ) and Change of Heart, (which can be found here ). In truth though, I\u2019ve read over 7 of her books, which includes the likes of Nineteen Minutes, Salem Falls, The Pact, My Sister\u2019s Keeper, Handle With Care, Perfect Match and The Tenth Circle. It\u2019s no secret how much I love her books, her style, her content, though I know there are ma If you dig into my archive, you\u2019ll find only two measly Jodi Picoult reviews, one of which is amongst my favourite books ever, Keeping Faith, (review for which is here ) and Change of Heart, (which can be found here ). In truth though, I\u2019ve read over 7 of her books, which includes the likes of Nineteen Minutes, Salem Falls, The Pact, My Sister\u2019s Keeper, Handle With Care, Perfect Match and The Tenth Circle. It\u2019s no secret how much I love her books, her style, her content, though I know there are many who dislike her with an even stronger passion that rivals my adoration. Todays review, is on the book that competes with Keeping Faith in my eyes for the best Picoult book ever, and that\u2019s saying a lot. Second Glance, was actually the first ever book of hers I brought on a whim, from a charity shop too many years ago. It would be years later that I actually picked up the battered and torn paperback, which had pages falling off it\u2019s spine and I wondered why on earth did I even had in my possession a book that was less than perfect in physicality and even more than that, why had I PAID for it. This set me on the path to pick it up and read it, and my god, was I blown away. With all my reviews up to date, I\u2019ve scoured my shelves to write a series of new reviews for books that I\u2019ve loved but never gotten around to writing why that is. In the upcoming weeks, my blog will feature some classics like The Great Gatsby, to more up to date love/hate stories like The Host, and many more in between. Today though, is the day for Second Glance. This book, is a culmination of everything I love in a story, and yet it was something I never expected. I want to brand it a ghost story, but it\u2019s so much more than that, it ties in love, loyalty, history, and when everything in your world collides with another world you thought was outside of your reach. I picked this up because the premise promised me a ghost story, and though I was sceptical at first (\u2018cause let\u2019s face it, no one really writes a proper ghost story) I succumbed to the tale and couldn\u2019t believe I had finally gotten a ghost story worthy of my time and love. [Are we losing count of how many times I\u2019ve typed the word ghost? Update: 5 times]. Our story starts with Ross Wakeman, a man who lost the love of his life, and is desperately spending the rest of what he has left to follow her into the world he can\u2019t be a part of. His desire to depart this world, ironically, is the one thing that seems to keep him firmly rooted in the current world, as he becomes almost immune to death. Get struck by lightening? Manages to stay alive. Stands on rooftops in heavy storms fixing electrical items? Never gets a shock. Even suicide eludes him - he feels trapped, with nothing to live for. Picoult creates such wonderfully flawed characters, there\u2019s no shortage of them, from Ross, to his sister Shelby, his nephew Ethan, Eli, (the police officer guy), Meredith and her daughter Lucy, John Delacour, and the eugenics story. It seems like there\u2019s a lot of threads interweaving in this story and I know, I know, it sounds like it should be a recipe for disaster - yet it\u2019s not. There\u2019s such depth to each individual, perfectly fleshed out with their own flaws and vices, their own struggles. I connected with each and every one and that\u2019s saying something. Each character represents something intangible, a representation of loss, of love, life, fear, a past they can\u2019t escape and a future they can\u2019t envision. All wound together with wonderful poetic prose and a story writing style that has you hooked from beginning to end. I read this in one sitting, literally couldn\u2019t put the book down in the 3/4 hours it took me to read it and be shattered by it. It\u2019s haunting, chilling and heartwarming and Picoult literally wrote a masterpiece with this in my eyes. She follows the same style as with her other books, controversial topics but written with care and balance - yet this one book feels so different than the others, somehow more personal even though I couldn\u2019t personally relate to a single thing that happens in the book. Yet I felt like I could. *nervous laughter* One of my favourite aspects of the book, aside from the whole thing itself, (duh), was the inclusion of the eugenics history and the Abenaki tribe beliefs and traditions. Two sides of one coin, so perfectly balanced and well researched to be respectful but still bring that extra edge to the story. It was fascinating, and horrifying, reading about a programme like that which sadly did exist and Picoult plays up the repercussions of that part of our history and shows us the horrors it entailed. The best way to get into this book though, is to go in with your eyes closed - don't read any reviews, don't read too much into the premise, but just go in blind okay. The story will do the rest, it will take you left and right and up and down (you get the gist) it's a story you have to let happen to you , that's the only way you'll really feel the tale that's been spun here. So many wondrous twists, bound together so neatly. \u201cRoss Wakeman succeeded the first time he killed himself, but not the second or the third.\u201d With a trademark opening like that, you really, really can\u2019t go wrong. One of my favourite books and one of Picoult\u2019s best, I\u2019d highly recommend this book and if you do pick it up, I\u2019m going to sit here, twiddling my thumbs, waiting for you to report back to me about how much you loved it. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram ...more Originally posted on Abookthiefandawordshaker A Jodi Picoult novel isn\u2019t truly a Jodi Picoult books without complex characters and Second Glance was chock-full of them. While Ross is the main character, we also have plenty of side characters who are just as important. ross has lots of issues due to the fact that his wife Aimee died in a car accident, and ever since then he was felt kind of empty. he doesn\u2019t want to live and throughout this story as he meets these different characters, living be Originally posted on Abookthiefandawordshaker A Jodi Picoult novel isn\u2019t truly a Jodi Picoult books without complex characters and Second Glance was chock-full of them. While Ross is the main character, we also have plenty of side characters who are just as important. ross has lots of issues due to the fact that his wife Aimee died in a car accident, and ever since then he was felt kind of empty. he doesn\u2019t want to live and throughout this story as he meets these different characters, living becomes a little easier for him. This book is about loss, guilt and trying to do the right thing. It\u2019s a ghost story, it delves deep into the corruption of eugenics. It\u2019s everything wrapped into amazing book and I highly reccommend it. Plot: Ever since I first picked up Nineteen Minutes in my school library nearly four years ago, I have fallen in love with the writing of Jodi Picoult. She is one of the few authors who I will always come back to, one of the authors that I trust 100%. so when I saw one of hers books that I hadn\u2019t read I was over the moon. Second Glance didn\u2019t fail to disappoint Jodi picoult always manages to perfectly combine moral issues into the the workings of her story. In this book while it does have a paranormal kind of ghost aspect of to it, we also learn of the Eugenics program that occurred in the 30s in Vermont. I myself knew little about eugenics and I found it really interesting to learn about this subject which I found Picoult dealt with very well. One of the things I found really enjoyable about this book was that all the characters that we met were connected in some way. Though it wasn\u2019t clear at first , everyone had their place. And while I managed to figure out the plot twists, I still found it really interesting . Characters: A Jodi Picoult novel isn\u2019t truly a Jodi Picoult books without complex characters and Second Glance was chock-full of them. While Ross is the main character, we also have plenty of side characters who are just as important. ross has lots of issues due to the fact that his wife Aimee died in a car accident, and ever since then he was felt kind of empty. he doesn\u2019t want to live and throughout this story as he meets these different characters, living becomes a little easier for him. This book is about loss, guilt and trying to do the right thing. It\u2019s a ghost story, it delves deep into the corruption of eugenics. It\u2019s everything wrapped into amazing book and I highly reccommend it. ...more Second Glance is a fascinating, complex and, at times, difficult to follow story. It spans generations and follows the lives of an eclectic mix of individuals. It's the kind of story that makes you question your beliefs and educates you on history without even appearing to do so. Learning about the history of eugenics in Vermont was mind-blowing. I, personally, had not previously heard anything about this period in history. It is a fictional account of that generation, however, I can easily see w Second Glance is a fascinating, complex and, at times, difficult to follow story. It spans generations and follows the lives of an eclectic mix of individuals. It's the kind of story that makes you question your beliefs and educates you on history without even appearing to do so. Learning about the history of eugenics in Vermont was mind-blowing. I, personally, had not previously heard anything about this period in history. It is a fictional account of that generation, however, I can easily see where true history shines through. The emotional tale for both the Gypsies and those who wished to sterilize them found its way straight to my heart. It reminded me that humans are prone to error and that history is a delicate matter that we must always recall in an effort to not repeat our past mistakes. I truly enjoyed this book, and I would recommend it to everyone. Jodi Picoult has once again established herself as an amazing writer and gifted storyteller. The characters are beautiful, the details are rich, and the book is un-put-down-able. Educational, informative, spellbinding and captivating, this book is a must-read. ...more I read this book awhile ago so I can't remember enough to write a very detailed review. However, I can say that I enjoyed reading it, and found it very engrossing and easy to read. One thing I did want to comment on that I particularly loved about the book and still remembered was the controversial subject matter it handled. Picoult is known for weaving controversial subjects into her books and I feel this was one of her best examples at doing this. She took eugenics which is generally agreed upo I read this book awhile ago so I can't remember enough to write a very detailed review. However, I can say that I enjoyed reading it, and found it very engrossing and easy to read. One thing I did want to comment on that I particularly loved about the book and still remembered was the controversial subject matter it handled. Picoult is known for weaving controversial subjects into her books and I feel this was one of her best examples at doing this. She took eugenics which is generally agreed upon as a horrible thing, and juxtaposed it with genetic counseling in in vitro fertilization, something that has definite positives but also some scary parallels with eugenics. it certainly causes you to pause and think. I also think its great that she works eugenics into such a mass market format. I feel eugenics is one of those dark periods of US history that has largely been swept under the rug. I only learned about it myself through a single college genetics class. Obviously its important that we remember our history to not repeat our mistakes, so I love that Picoult is exposing this period to a large audience. ...more This was one of my favorite Picoult books. I understand that some reviewers had a difficult time with this book for the very reasons I enjoyed it. The book was complicated, intricate, and spanned many generations. But the main reason that I am \"this\" close to digging up the author's information and sending her an admiring email is that I appreciate her research, dedication, and determination in shedding light on a topic that seems to be left out of American history. As a person with a disability This was one of my favorite Picoult books. I understand that some reviewers had a difficult time with this book for the very reasons I enjoyed it. The book was complicated, intricate, and spanned many generations. But the main reason that I am \"this\" close to digging up the author's information and sending her an admiring email is that I appreciate her research, dedication, and determination in shedding light on a topic that seems to be left out of American history. As a person with a disability, learning about the eugenics movement was particularly infuriating and upsetting. For that reason, I was nervous to read this Picoult novel. However, she blended fact, story, and philosophical considerations together to leave the reader questioning more than the horror of a movement that seems to have been forgotten. Thank you, Jodi Picoult, for not allowing your readers to forget. P.S. I also really loved the characters in this book. I couldn't hate a single one of them in this novel. ...more ASTONISHING!!!! This book was sooooo amazing. It made me laugh and cry and sit dumbfounded at moments. It very intense the level of grief she was able to reveal in different ways in so many of the characters. I loved the twists and turn this story took as well. This story had so many levels both in the present, the past, and the distant past covering 4 different generations and somehow Picoult keeps it all together and spins a tale that truly touches the heart and reminds you how strong and how ASTONISHING!!!! This book was sooooo amazing. It made me laugh and cry and sit dumbfounded at moments. It very intense the level of grief she was able to reveal in different ways in so many of the characters. I loved the twists and turn this story took as well. This story had so many levels both in the present, the past, and the distant past covering 4 different generations and somehow Picoult keeps it all together and spins a tale that truly touches the heart and reminds you how strong and how much love can conquer. And along with that you lear about racism in regards to native americans in vermont, a state that isn't known for racism but had an astonishing history in trying to wipe out native americans by sterilization. And to learn that Hitler learned from these scientest in the U.S. about how genocide was done leagally here. I definitely did not learn about that in my U.S. history class but it's a story that should definitely should be told and not forgotten. ...more This book was so good! I obviously couldn't put it down. Love really knows no bounds especially through time. Ross admits that he believes in past lives and if you find your one true love, you're meant to be find and be with that person in each lifetime. Sometimes it doesn't go according to plan, so you keep trying, otherwise you life seems incomplete. I can't help but think that his sorrow and pain is held in the fact that he is cursed to continue spending the rest of his life without the love This book was so good! I obviously couldn't put it down. Love really knows no bounds especially through time. Ross admits that he believes in past lives and if you find your one true love, you're meant to be find and be with that person in each lifetime. Sometimes it doesn't go according to plan, so you keep trying, otherwise you life seems incomplete. I can't help but think that his sorrow and pain is held in the fact that he is cursed to continue spending the rest of his life without the love of his life. I'm beginning to know what that's like. ...more Another wonderful book by Picoult. Different from her usual fare in that it departed from strictly nonfiction topics (based on what you believe). As someone who believes the ones we love never really leave us, I fell in love with this book from the description, and I hung on every word. It was a beautiful, tragic journey through the exquisite pain of loss and the desperate need we have to connect with those long after they're gone. Jodi Picoult,never seems to fail me. It's the frist novel that I read about paranormal activities and ghost hunters and it was great. The way she incorporated some of the history of Vermont in the novel was brilliant. The information about the Vermont eugenics project of the 1920's and 30's that dealt with the sterilazation law that pass in vermont and Hitler's plan was no different. It was a very intererting part of American history that I never new about it.<---C>Jodi Picoult</---C>", "Title": "Second Glance"},
