{"Comments": "Really beautiful, smart and heart-touching story of an architecture professor who,<---M> when he is 50</---M>, learns better. It ought to be a five star review, but I kept feeling like the moment the whole thing came together it would be one of the best graphic novels anyone had ever done and one of the finest stories ever told... and it reached the end and left me feeling that had it all come together - perhaps had it been much longer - it would have been amazing, and as it was it was simply astonishingly g Really beautiful, smart and heart-touching story of an architecture professor who, when he is 50, learns better. It ought to be a five star review, but I kept feeling like the moment the whole thing came together it would be one of the best graphic novels anyone had ever done and one of the finest stories ever told... and it reached the end and left me feeling that had it all come together - perhaps had it been much longer - it would have been amazing, and as it was it was simply astonishingly good... ...more Reading <---C>Asterios Polyp</---C> is a daunting experience. Or maybe not so much the reading, which can be accomplished easily enough, but the being able to speak sensibly about it afterward. I feel kind of like how I did after finishing 2666 , only not quite so out of my depth. Like Bola\u00f1o, Mazzucchelli's work here displays a breadth and depth that overtly requires multiple readings in order find ground solid enough to speak with any authority about the book. But since I've only read the book once, you'l Reading <+++>Asterios Polyp</+++> is a daunting experience. Or maybe not so much the reading, which can be accomplished easily enough, but the being able to speak sensibly about it afterward. I feel kind of like how I did after finishing 2666 , only not quite so out of my depth. Like Bola\u00f1o, Mazzucchelli's work here displays a breadth and depth that overtly requires multiple readings in order find ground solid enough to speak with any authority about the book. But since I've only read the book once, you'll have to be satisfied with my initial thoughts. <+++>Asterios Polyp</+++> is, in the simplest terms, a coming-of-age story\u2014one in which the fifty-year-old lead, celebrated architect Asterios Polyp, begins a quest to put away the childish things of his past and embarks on journey of both self-discovery and exploration of the world as it is rather than how he has intended to see it for so long. In this aspect, Asterios reminded me of Mr. Ryder from Ishiguro's The Unconsoled , a man at the top of his rarefied field who still must learn to grow up. And like Ryder, Asterios suffers from an inability to see the world as it is and is (<---B>really, like us all</---B>) victim to his own perceptions. Reality, perception, and memory play a huge role in Mazzucchelli's work here even as they do in everything I've yet read by Ishiguro. On top of this is layered the framework of Greek tragedy and specific allusion to the myth of Orpheus (this is pointed out through fistfuls of overt clues, not the least of which is a dream in which Asterios takes the role of Orpheus and his ex-wife Hana embodies Eurydice). We get narrative explanations from a meta-source in the Greek choral tradition. Comparisons to Dionysus and Apollo lead to an evaluation of dualistic systems (and perhaps systems generally) as Asterios gradually must free himself from systemic shackles in order to finally grow up. Of course we suspect if Asterios abandons one aspect he will be destroyed even as Orpheus was for abandoning Dionysus. As well, there are plenty of references to The Odyssey and this cross-pollination of mythologies only serves to enrich our experience of Asterios' journey. The subject matter, by its summary, sounds simple enough but Mazzucchelli throws so much into this piece and exercises such deft control over the page that one can easily drown in the details.<---F> The art is very particular</---F>. Much is made of Mazzucchelli's use of colour through the book and, well, with good reason. The colouring itself offers storytelling that is available through no other means. In fact, so occasionally powerful is his use of colour that I worry for colourblind readers, that they might miss out on some of the book's more sublime moments. On top of Mazzucchelli's tight reign over his colour spectrum, there is ample evidence that he maintains the same level of control over his linework and design. Asterios Polyp is a thoroughly designed experience, with every element from script to story to illustration to panel design to colouration to control of whitespace adding voice to the chorus of this performance. The battle between geometric and organic shapes gives the reader (who may not be familiar with all the names and ideas Asterios or his ghostly narrator reference) a hook on which to hang the interpreter's hat. One's experience of Asterios Polyp will no doubt be more enriched by a working knowledge of architectural history, familiarity with Greek mythology and Homeric tradition, and a smackerel of understanding of postmodern sculpture\u2014but Mazzucchelli's conveyance of story through his visual sense means that even those with Asterios-sized gaps in their education can still get in there and have some deeper sense of what's going on. As of this writing, I have only read Asterios Polyp once. Of course I still have questions. Of course I do. I think I understand the ending, but I'd like to reread and think on it again. I think I understand why he physically takes on the identity of his true last name in the book's final act (Polyp is only half his original surname, as the immigration official chopped in half the family name when his father immigrated to America). I sometimes understand what Mazzuchelli intends with his character names and sometimes not. I have the barest kernel of an idea why Mazzuchelli, in a mature work that depicts nudity and violence, insists on representing verbal obscenity with cartoony symbolic representation (e.g. \"We made up a $#@*load of these\"). I don't yet fully grasp Asterios' Ignazio dreams. I am certain, however, that many of these things will become more clear on subsequent readings. As I said, I have only read Asterios Polyp once. And I can't wait to change that fact. ...more book #9 for Jugs & Capes! Also: this is my second review for CCLaP, and my first in a year-long series reviewing graphic novels. W00t! *** This is the first in an essay series I'll be doing for CCLaP called \"Jugs & Capes,\" where I look at graphic novels from a girl's point of view. I'm not going to say a \"feminist\" point of view, because I think that's a complicated word, one which any thinking woman has a complicated relationship with. And as I haven't got any kind of background in gender book #9 for Jugs & Capes! Also: this is my second review for CCLaP, and my first in a year-long series reviewing graphic novels. W00t! *** This is the first in an essay series I'll be doing for CCLaP called \"Jugs & Capes,\" where I look at graphic novels from a girl's point of view. I'm not going to say a \"feminist\" point of view, because I think that's a complicated word, one which any thinking woman has a complicated relationship with. And as I haven't got any kind of background in gender studies or feminist theory, I don't feel comfortable talking about what feminists think of this book or that one. I do , however, feel quite comfortable talking about what I think about something, so in this series I will happily do just that. Asterios Polyp is a lush, fascinating, complex book. But it's that brilliant kind of complex which can be enjoyed on many levels, like Lolita , say, or The Metamorphosis , where, if you'd like, you can derive great enjoyment from the story on the surface, without doing a whole lot of delving. Or, if you're so inclined, you can peel back layers and study the symbolism and wordplay and big ideas, thus gaining a fuller, more multifaceted understanding of this deeply layered text. We meet Asterios Polyp in the middle of a lightning storm. He is rumpled and exhausted, lying in bed in his luxurious but extremely messy apartment, watching what we assume to be pornography (we hear what is being said, but do not see the picture). Then a blinding flash of lightning illuminates the entire page, and we see that Asterios's building has caught fire. He makes a desperate search of his rooms, grabbing a few small items--a lighter, a pocketknife, and a watch--and dashes out into the storm. Over two lurid pages, we watch his apartment burn. After this dramatic introduction, we begin to get to know Asterios. He is an architecture professor, but a \"paper architect,\" meaning that none of his designs have ever been built. He has always been something of an aloof genius. He had a twin brother who died in the womb, and who will be our narrator throughout the book. He was married to a sculptor and fellow professor named Hana. Asterios stands in the rain for a little while, watching his apartment burn, and then he goes to the Greyhound station and buys a ticket that costs everything he has in his walled. He rides until he gets to a small town, where he takes a job as a mechanic, and rents a room from his boss, a big man who lives with his voluptuous wife and their pudgy son. Asterios settles into small-town life, building a treehouse with his boss, discussing spirituality with his boss's wife, going to see a local band in a local bar. Everything he does is tinged with melancholy, with regret. Asterios is clearly running away from his past, but also trying to make some sense of it. The story opens out and out, in short vignettes, the present interspersed with flashbacks, dreams, and meandering philosophical asides. Everything about Asterios Polyp is dense, and slow, and meticulously planned and executed. It is easily the most beautiful graphic novel I've ever seen. Each vignette has a specific palate, most using only two or three colors at a time--in fact, it isn't until the book's very last chapter that Mazzucchelli uses full four-color spreads--and there is no black in the book at all. Each character's speech is written in a unique font, one which is clearly representative of that person's personality. The story itself is full and rich, the characters multifaceted and real, and everything is augmented and reified by frequent digressions, both visual and described, on perception, human behavior, physics, philosophy, mythology, spirituality, metaphysics, and on and on. The whole story is, of course, unraveling the mystery of Hana. Early on, during an aside, Mazzucchelli presents a random group of people, each drawn in a different style and color, as a visual representation of how unique every person is. In the group (we find out later) is Hana, rendered in swirling, shadowy pink, and Asterios, in stark, angular blue. This turns out to be a running motif, and later, during Asterios and Hana's first meeting, his blue outlines begin to fill with pink haze, and her pink shadows become outlined in blue, until they both have nearly the same appearance. Much later, when they begin to argue, their realistic forms melt back into these elementals, he once again empty and blue, she returning to unbounded pink, demonstrating that, no matter how close two people can become, they are always, at heart, fundamentally strange to one another. This is of course terribly difficult to describe, and is a superb argument for the supremacy of the graphic novel form in this book. On that subject, I will briefly describe another small section, one of the novel's most famous. It is an eight-page spread, with almost no words. The traditional panel structure is abandoned, in favor of three somewhat parallel rows of small boxes. The rows in the middle tell a consistent, simple story, wherein Hana has lost the puff of a Q-tip inside her ear, and has a mild panic until Asterios removes it with a tweezer. Above and below this throughline are a constellation of tiny instances of Hana's corporeal life: brushing her teeth, clipping her nails, shaving, vomiting, eating, dressing, undressing, masturbating, snoring, drinking, crying, laughing, leaving, smiling. It is one of the most stunning, affecting ways to render the memory of life's unnoticed moments, Asterios recalling Hana in all of her physical glory, beautiful and rumpled, joyful and sick, hungry and dirty. It is so humanizing, so plaintive, so shockingly mundane that it elevates Hana to something of a mythical plane. It's something that could never be done in prose, and to me it is the beating heart of the novel--echoed and augmented later by a pitch-perfect, harrowing, devastating, wordless dream sequence, which is rendered as an intricate dance opera. I've read criticism of this book that takes the opposite view of the Hana montage, accusing Mazzucchelli as reducing her to a plot device, used merely to represent Asterios's development and emotional journey. But I think that's an unfair claim. Hana is a fully developed character--as is the book's whole supporting cast, most of whom are generally more sympathetically than Asterios himself. Certainly Hana is slightly romanticized, but this is a story told through a man who is desperately longing for the life--and the woman--he once had. I don't believe romanticization is inherently reductive, and I don't believe that Hana's character was secondary or subservient to Asterios's. There is so much more to say about this dense, gorgeous, intricate book, but I've run out of space and steam. I couldn't recommend it more highly, though; this and Fun Home are the most astonishing graphic novels--and among the most astonishing books of any kind--I've ever come across. ...more I might have to read this one again to catch all the subtleties of the story. What's amazing about this graphic novel is that it is jam-packed with ideas, but most of the ideas are embedded in the art itself, and not in the words (some of it is in words, but it's like a riff that plays along with the visuals). At the same time, all these ideas do not in any way make it a gooey-dense landscape to slodge through. The book is such a pleasure to read, filled with so many wide open panels, so much wh I might have to read this one again to catch all the subtleties of the story. What's amazing about this graphic novel is that it is jam-packed with ideas, but most of the ideas are embedded in the art itself, and not in the words (some of it is in words, but it's like a riff that plays along with the visuals). At the same time, all these ideas do not in any way make it a gooey-dense landscape to slodge through. The book is such a pleasure to read, filled with so many wide open panels, so much white space, you will feel like you are standing on top of the Pyrenees. In addition, the colors here are just amazing, usually playing with a very limited palette (see above). And the versatility of artistic styles he is able to employ, and always for a purpose. Different characters are drawn in different styles, different color schemes, and even different fonts in their speech bubbles. These tell you so much about each character. But he's able to pull it off without being too obvious or corny. I'm stealing these images from Parka Blogs : The story itself is very simple, but full of digressions, flashbacks, and dream-sequences. Ideas and themes circle and come back repeatedly in different forms. In terms of ideas, it's wonderfully complex and wonderfully simple at the same time. What I like about it is that it feels breezy. There was much humor in here as well, some of which made me laugh out loud. My favorite character was Willy Illium, who was drawn in the funniest way. I especially liked it when he was drawn as a little baby. As far as the downsides: it is a graphic novel of ideas. As such, there is a feeling that the characters represent ideals that don't really exist in the real world. At times the characters seem very real (the dialogue is well written, and the bodily gestures are so well drawn, just spot on!), but at other times they seem like symbols only of bigger ideas. This can be a little frustrating--especially if you hope to connect with these characters. Also, it seems to push these characters into extreme corners, whereas I feel like they need more room to be complex characters, embodying many different ideas and contradictions. It seems like Asterio's problems with putting things into tidy either/or boxes is also an extension of <---A>David Mazzucchelli</---A>'s same impulse. Perhaps he was writing about himself a little in that part. *** MAJOR *** *** SPOILERS *** *** BELOW *** It is a testament to how distancing the story is that at the end, when the asteroid destroys everyone (itself a pretty immature narrative device), I didn't feel shocked or anything. I know this is sounding harsh, but it really isn't if you read this without expecting to care much for the characters, but only to be stimulated by the visual representation of ideas. More thoughts on the asteroid: yes, it didn't sit well with me. I can't decide if it's a really horrible idea or just a pretty bad idea. One thing is that it circles back to the theme of randomness and chance... why one brother lived, yet the other died. Here we have something with the asteroid, which would be the taking away of this brother's life, but in an more unlikely scenario. Is it just chance or was there a reason for it? Given all this, I still don't think it is justification enough for such an ending, because it really does make the whole book too obviously about ideas and ideas alone. Let me know what your thoughts on this are. ...more \"What if reality (as perceived) were simply an extention of the self? Wouldn't that color the way each individual experiences the world?That might explain why some people get along so effortlessly, while others don't. Although people do keep trying.Yet, despite such predisposition, maybe one person's construction of the world, could influence someone else's.\" Don't we all, at some point or another, find ourselves stuck in a certain state? We make friendships, fall in love, communicate in differ \"What if reality (as perceived) were simply an extention of the self? Wouldn't that color the way each individual experiences the world?That might explain why some people get along so effortlessly, while others don't. Although people do keep trying.Yet, despite such predisposition, maybe one person's construction of the world, could influence someone else's.\" Don't we all, at some point or another, find ourselves stuck in a certain state? We make friendships, fall in love, communicate in different ways, yet each and every one of us is a seperate universe. At least that's how we perceive ourselves. Trapped in our own, confined space, we make believe that there isn't more to it than that. And one day, you lose the one, be it by tragedy or negligence or even choice and suddenly the walls collapse and you come to the realization that what you thought you knew was actually a pile of crap on a hot, summer day. What you thought you felt was only a cover-up, a big black veil to hide the real deal which is now deep and long since unapproachable. But what if it is too late? What if there's not to be any other peaceful spring evening with you sitting next to her, holding hands and trying to determine which smell is stronger and sweeter, the night flowers' or hers? Will just a memory ever be enough? \"To live is to exist within a conception of time. But to remember is to vacate the very notion of time.\" This is a really unique and carefully made graphic novel. Everything is relevant. The colors, the fonts, the shape of the bubbles, you name it. Masterfully crafted, multi-dimensional characters and a simple, yet deep story make this graphic novel a small diamond of the genre. What I liked most was the fact that it was gripping, yet totally realistic. No superhero, no magic spells, just life, love and philosophy. I also loved the ending because it allowed me to totally relate to the whole concept. Deep, moving, sweet and apparently unforgettable. 5/5 ...more I don't really understand the hype over this graphic novel. I thought it was boring - an educated, middle-aged white man feels like his life has fallen apart so he jumps ship and tries to start over again. Maybe I just found his self-absorbed personality too off-putting, but I didn't really feel any sympathy for him or care about his ideas about how the world works. In spite of the sadness in it, it all reads like an educated, middle-aged white man's fantasy: Asterios Polyp is world-renowned in I don't really understand the hype over this graphic novel. I thought it was boring - an educated, middle-aged white man feels like his life has fallen apart so he jumps ship and tries to start over again. Maybe I just found his self-absorbed personality too off-putting, but I didn't really feel any sympathy for him or care about his ideas about how the world works. In spite of the sadness in it, it all reads like an educated, middle-aged white man's fantasy: Asterios Polyp is world-renowned in his field, he spends his time womanizing but eventually a much younger half-Asian woman just can't resist him and marries him, and even when she leaves him and his apartment is destroyed in a fire, he is immediately able to land a job working at a car-repair shop on the strength of his answer to the question \"You ever work on cars before?\" - \"A little.\" Then he goes and spends an hour at the library reading about car repair so that he can fake his way in his new job. Seriously? That's just insulting to anyone who actually works in that field. ...more LIFE IS STRESSFUL, THAT'S WHY THEY SAY \u2018REST IN PEACE\u2019 David Mazzucchelli ha gi\u00e0 una lunga carriera alle spalle (anche i supereroi Marvel!!) quando inizia a dedicarsi a questa sua prima graphic novel, per realizzare la quale impiegher\u00e0 dieci anni. Asterios, proprio come Elvis Presley, ha un fratello gemello morto alla nascita, Ignacio, di cui scopre l\u2019esistenza solo molti anni dopo. Questa storia \u00e8 narrata dal gemello morto col quale Asterios tende qua e l\u00e0 a sovrapporsi, identificarsi, scambiarsi LIFE IS STRESSFUL, THAT'S WHY THEY SAY \u2018REST IN PEACE\u2019 David Mazzucchelli ha gi\u00e0 una lunga carriera alle spalle (anche i supereroi Marvel!!) quando inizia a dedicarsi a questa sua prima graphic novel, per realizzare la quale impiegher\u00e0 dieci anni. Asterios, proprio come Elvis Presley, ha un fratello gemello morto alla nascita, Ignacio, di cui scopre l\u2019esistenza solo molti anni dopo. Questa storia \u00e8 narrata dal gemello morto col quale Asterios tende qua e l\u00e0 a sovrapporsi, identificarsi, scambiarsi. Da qui l\u2019ossessione di Asterios, per binomi duplicazioni appaiamenti. Asterios \u00e8 un architetto di carta , cio\u00e8 un teorico: non ha mai costruito nulla, mai visto realizzarsi concretamente nulla di quanto ha disegnato e progettato. Ha cultura vasta ed eclettica, insegna in una prestigiosa cattedra universitaria a Ithaca (upstate New York), ed \u00e8 alla ricerca (teorica) di un ordine (teorico) sia esteriore che interiore Mazzucchelli lo disegna con il cranio che sembra un rostro (di una nave, ma anche un qualche tipo di lama) e sembra la testa adatta al tagliente sarcasmo che Asterios sfoggia e adopra per segnare e sottolineare il suo distacco. Il matrimonio con Hana, una scultrice di origine giapponese, dovrebbe aiutare Asterios a trovare quel senso pratico, quel contatto diretto con la realt\u00e0 che sembra mancargli. Ma cos\u00ec non avviene, e Hana prende il largo una volta che comprende che la corazza-carapace di Asterios non \u00e8 penetrabile, e neppure scalfibile. Dopo la separazione, alla soglia dei cinquanta anni, la sua vita perde altri pezzi: anzi, va letteralmente in pezzi la notte in cui il suo appartamento prende fuoco e dall\u2019incendio riesce a recuperare solo tre oggetti, un accendino, un orologio, un coltellino svizzero. Man mano, lungo il suo road trip, rinuncer\u00e0 a ciascuno di questi oggetti, se ne liberer\u00e0 donandoli, completer\u00e0 lo smantellamento dell\u2019armatura esistenziale che lo ha protetto (ma anche isolato) fin qui, alleggerendosi e riuscendo finalmente a venire a patti col lato pratico delle cose, e quindi della vita. Crescendo, diventando migliore. Fin qui si direbbe niente di eccezionale, tutto gi\u00e0 sentito, un bildungsroman abbastanza classico (anche se alla fine io mi sono chiesto: ma Asterios Polyp non \u00e8 anche un esempio di Grande Romanzo Americano?) Solo che Mazzucchelli \u00e8 il Thomas Pynchon del fumetto: ergo, sa trasformare una storia gi\u00e0 nota in un\u2019avventura unica. Come? Prima di tutto col disegno. Questa graphic novel \u00e8 un autentico manuale per capire e studiare il mondo dei fumetti: chirurgicamente Mazzucchelli disseziona la tavola del disegno, smonta tavola e disegno, pezzo per pezzo, in un continuo viaggio fuori e dentro le forme, i contenuti, le sequenze, gli stili estetici, giocando da una parte con l\u2019uso dei colori e dall\u2019altra con la (s)composizione della stessa pagina . Aggiungiamo che gioca anche col lettering, assegnandone uno per personaggio e mutandolo a secondo degli stati d\u2019animo. Il layout del libro \u00e8 cangiante, proteiforme, flessibile, incessantemente gradevole, mai soffocante. Molte delle sue pagine hanno una composizione aperta: vignette e figure fluttuano libere nell\u2019ampia pagina bianca, quasi respirassero pi\u00f9 profondamente. Le vignette sono separate \u2013 in sostanza disaccoppiate \u2013 anzich\u00e9 sostenersi a vicenda adiacenti l\u2019una all\u2019altra come nella consueta struttura a griglia . Ma anche la storia \u00e8 arricchita di innesti: Calvino, Nietzsche, Joyce, Shakespeare, Hegel, Hesse, Escher, Parmenide, Bakunin, il cubismo, i pitagorici, ontologia, morale, estetica, cinema, psicanalisi, astrologia, religione, e sopra tutto, il mito di Orfeo. Paradigma del superamento della frontiera tra cultura alta e bassa, Asterios Polyp \u00e8 un\u2019autentica torta a pi\u00f9 strati: sfogli, osservi, leggi, risfogli, rileggi. Una miniera di dettagli, da scoprire a poco a poco . Ma ci\u00f2 che davvero libera questo graphic novel dall\u2019occludente severit\u00e0 del formalismo \u00e8 il modo canzonatorio e dirompente con cui Mazzecchelli affronta la questione dei sistemi e delle astrazioni (di ogni tipo). Innanzitutto \u2018Asterios Polyp\u2019 \u00e8 la tollerante storia di un essere umano non priva di una salutare diffidenza verso gli assolutismi formali. Sebbene tratti di una mente \u2013 di un uomo \u2013 dedita/o alla spasmodica ricerca di una pura logica, un uomo per cui le astrazioni surclassano l\u2019esperienza di vita diretta, fortunatamente il libro non cede alla tentazione di rifugiarsi in un oscuro ermetismo. In effetti il romanzo \u00e8 una satira perfettamente elaborata di un certo tipo di pensiero: dialettico, lineare, polarizzante, sistematizzante, architettonico, acutamente estraniato ed incorporeo . ...more I so wish more graphic novelists did what Mazzucchelli did in this one. Rather than merely have the graphic element supplement the story, Asterios Polyp makes graphics a part of the theme , using it to highlight conflicts and characterize its protagonists. Asterios Polyp is a critically respected and self-regarding \"theoretical architect,\" meaning that he has created some prize-winning designs and plans--none of which has ever been built. The narrative structure is framed by the new more humble li I so wish more graphic novelists did what Mazzucchelli did in this one. Rather than merely have the graphic element supplement the story, Asterios Polyp makes graphics a part of the theme , using it to highlight conflicts and characterize its protagonists. Asterios Polyp is a critically respected and self-regarding \"theoretical architect,\" meaning that he has created some prize-winning designs and plans--none of which has ever been built. The narrative structure is framed by the new more humble life he has set out to claim after his Manhattan apartment went up in flames, as we get his pre-disaster life through flashbacks. The visual style used to contrast the small-town escape from his previously elite life are what you'd expect: curves, visual ellipses, and informal open-framed illustration versus squares, cubes, angles, and tight frame composition. In the latter (the NY flashbacks) we see the womanizer Asterios finally settle down with one woman, Hana, an age-inappropriate Japanese-American modernist artist in her own right whose star threatens to rise once she's asked to do the set design for an avant-garde production of Orpheus . This invitation is off-handedly dismissed by Asterios when he incorrectly assumes that it is directed to him ; when Hana accepts, the beginning of the end of their relationship is signaled by his condescending self-superior attitude toward the director and the composer while Hana (finally) gets tired of his smug self-superiority, resulting in the eruption of some expressionist graphic explosions illustrating their fights. Hana as a distinct person fades into a blurred red approximation of herself while Asterios finds himself segmented into his constituent shapes, his arms jointed cylinders, his torso and head crude blocks. These graphic experiments set themselves off distinctly from the depiction of the small-town life Asterios has settled into as an assistant to a car mechanic who rents him a room. They share the house with the mechanic's son and wife, a curvy wiccan Earth-mother type as far removed as imaginable from the sort with whom he surrounded himself in his previous life. Before the fire, Asterios was prone to lecture others on his own theories of design which he elevated to a philosophy of life, being a quasi-Platonic jumble where a theory of balance between the ordered and the passionate is contradicted by his evident overemphasis on one side of the scales, (demonstrated by an omniscient narrator picturing actual scales). A perfectionist even in the smallest things, Asterios applies this to even the banal as he holds up his favorite type of shoe and declares it a perfect example of \"shoeness.\" Later his feet hurt; his supposed vaunting of the functional is seen to be foolishly subordinate to form , disrupting his pet theory that in the finest design the two are one and the same. This is a story of redemption, of sorts, not only in the moral sense but in the graphic, on the level of visual design, a narrative and thematic utilization of the graphic in \"graphic novel\" that I would love to see taken up more in this genre. ...more \u0389\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03bf... \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03bf\u03c5\u03c0\u03c2 .... Wow. Just finished in one reading session this magical work of art. Together with \"Daytripper\", this is my all time favorite graphic novel. I don't have much to say about it, as I don't think I have rationalized it much yet: visually, it's extremely creative and exciting. Rich with inventions and ideas. The story reminded me of a Chinese saying: \"Two thirds of what we see is behind our eyes\", and a lot of this novel is about that crucial aspect of human existence. I see this as a love story, and Wow. Just finished in one reading session this magical work of art. Together with \"Daytripper\", this is my all time favorite graphic novel. I don't have much to say about it, as I don't think I have rationalized it much yet: visually, it's extremely creative and exciting. Rich with inventions and ideas. The story reminded me of a Chinese saying: \"Two thirds of what we see is behind our eyes\", and a lot of this novel is about that crucial aspect of human existence. I see this as a love story, and - among many other things - a story about the communication challenges that we experience because of our differences. The way humans interact with each other is visualized with such elegance! But what I loved the most is that his novel has a living and breathing soul, a true soul that you can see much better in the second part. I found myself to be really moved towards the end. And also I think I found a certain kind of wisdom, that sees through selfish attitudes and behaviours as something that needs to be overcome and understood, in order to grow up. Asterios and Hana are one of the most fascinating and real couples I've ever encountered in fiction. Bravo, David!! Straordinario!! my wonderful blog is here ...more Pseudo-intellectual, middlebrow regurgitation of ostensibly interesting Wikipedia-culled dichotomies and philosophical conceptions, clunkily arranged into a narrative. I mean, I do not understand how this book received the praise it did. Bad, bad writing. One dimensional characterizations. I'm not sure what age group it was written for, surely not adults? It reminded me of Paul Krugman's sick burn, \"Newt Gingrich is a stupid man's idea of what a smart person sounds like.\" \"Wah,\" I said aloud when finishing this. \"God. Lovely. Really great,\" I also said. Unputdownably beautiful. A blatantly philosophical, simple love story. Vivid characters. Funny. Touching: in fact, it successfully revealed the presence of my heartstrings -- sentimental loon I am not, but I definitely felt something pull in the vicinity of my chest region toward the end. Sort of like Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth meets a way more formally sophisticated The Elegance of the Hedgehog , sp \"Wah,\" I said aloud when finishing this. \"God. Lovely. Really great,\" I also said. Unputdownably beautiful. A blatantly philosophical, simple love story. Vivid characters. Funny. Touching: in fact, it successfully revealed the presence of my heartstrings -- sentimental loon I am not, but I definitely felt something pull in the vicinity of my chest region toward the end. Sort of like Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth meets a way more formally sophisticated The Elegance of the Hedgehog , spiked with references to the Odyssey, apparently (so sayeth the blurbs I just read). The blurbs also say it's \"difficult,\" but the time shifts won't be a problem if you're semi-accustomed to Faulkner and Chris Ware -- handled really fluidly and elegantly here, with the various temporal threads color-coded (eg, yellow pages indicate a dream sequence) the way Faulkner originally wanted for The Sound and the Fury. Will lend my copy to my mama and will read again when she returns it. Perfect deep winter company. Thanks to Mr. Vollmer for the rave (\"not eye candy -- this is eye crack\"). But how'd I just find out about it a few days ago?! What else is similarly supergood and lurking around the corner? ...more I finished this over a week ago and for some reason haven't felt like writing a review on it. Maybe cause it's a little hard to describe without making it sound common. One reviewer described this best as a 40-something year old man's coming of age story. I would have to agree that that is what Asterio's story is about. Asterios must take a deep look at what dissolved his marriage. Most people would probably find him to be a jerk, but I really liked Asterios. He's just a man with many flaws but I finished this over a week ago and for some reason haven't felt like writing a review on it. Maybe cause it's a little hard to describe without making it sound common. One reviewer described this best as a 40-something year old man's coming of age story. I would have to agree that that is what Asterio's story is about. Asterios must take a deep look at what dissolved his marriage. Most people would probably find him to be a jerk, but I really liked Asterios. He's just a man with many flaws but in general, a person with a good heart. There's a part in the story where as his wife is growing more distant from him and she finally bursts out at him. A slimy dance producer keeps making terrible, dirty innuendos at Hana in front of Asterios. We are led to believe that due to Asterios' inattention at his wife, she is falling for this dirty scumbag. Thsis dance producer throws crude remarks at Hana right in front of Asterios. He notices, but never says anything, perhaps believing he's already lost his wife to this producer. Hana finally has enough and yells at Asterios, asking him how come he never says anything to this perv. I found it so sad to see how the lack of communication, of inattentiveness towards one spouse, the appearance of seeming not to care could so easily crumble a marriage. It is an excellent story I hate to give that average looking 3 star rating to. This is a high 3.5 stars for me. ...more A lavish, heartfelt story of a shallow intellectual's spiritual crisis and reconciliation with his lost love. Some of the existentialism feels a bit meh, but the synthesis of the ideas and the art - for e.g. as everyone's world view is different, each character is drawn in unique style - makes this stand out as a graphic novel worthy of the title, curiously powerful and immersive. I've noticed that ever since I became single earlier this year, I can't stop talking about myself. This is pretty unusual. I am a reasonably quiet person unless I'm around people I have known for a while, and usually listen more than speak. However, lately I've noticed myself sharing personal details in situations where it isn't warranted. Nothing super sexy or anything (you pervs), but details that could have easily been left out of the conversation. Or to be clearer - I've been entering persona I've noticed that ever since I became single earlier this year, I can't stop talking about myself. This is pretty unusual. I am a reasonably quiet person unless I'm around people I have known for a while, and usually listen more than speak. However, lately I've noticed myself sharing personal details in situations where it isn't warranted. Nothing super sexy or anything (you pervs), but details that could have easily been left out of the conversation. Or to be clearer - I've been entering personal details into group conversations that can easily be interpreted as trying to funnel the spotlight of the narrative onto myself. (And yes, I understand that this review is more or less doing the same thing - isn't this supposed to be about a book? Hang on, I'll get there.) I'm sure there are plenty of reasons for this that could be explained using behavioral psychology, but really, I just want to stop. I get that part of conversing in general is the act of sharing, but not to the level of attention-grabbing and narcissism. So it was a good time for this book to come along when it did. Asterios Polyp is, believe it or not, the main character's name - a brilliant professor of architecture who is re-examining his life after losing his wife due to his own self-absorption. His ex-wife, Hana, is a quiet, humble sculptor - clearly going for the whole \"opposites attract\" thing. Which makes sense, as duality is the main theme of the book, of which their relationship is only one particular example. Mazzucchelli does work here that is absolutely unrepeatable in any other medium, utilizing his art (and particularly, color) in ways I've never seen in a comic book. Asterios is often represented in blue lines, much like an architectural blueprint, while Hana is reflected in simple pink. The technique is used to great effect when highlighting the different ways the pair look at the same things. Asterios is brash and cocky, whereas Hana is calm and reserved. Eventually, Asterios' selfishness drives Hana away. There's a beautifully conceived, mostly wordless six-page, multi-panel scene of Asterios sadly remembering everything he loves about Hana that will send sensitive types scrambling for tissues. Again, I can't speak highly enough about Mazzucchelli's art - you can tell it took the guy years to make this. Every page is bursting with symbolism, intelligence, and creative panel design. For Asterios, duality was a central tenet of his life - things were one way, or another. Nothing, including his own relationship, was too complicated to be reduced to an either/or system. This obsession over opposition led to arrogance, bitterness, and ultimately loneliness. As with most stories based on the Greek myths (as this one is), Asterios hits rock bottom before he can transform and get back on the road to realization. I think this is an incredibly relevant and important look at relationships in modern times - where solipsism rules over sacrifice. Mazzucchelli has produced the best case for comic books at serious literature that I've ever come across. It was a good reminder for me to stop talking so much, and get back to listening. Freud said that narcissism is a natural part of the human makeup, but damaging when taken to the extreme. A simpler concept in theory than in execution, but Asterios Polyp shows exactly why it's worth thinking about. ...more 'Asterios Polyp' es un c\u00f3mic complejo, inteligente, riqu\u00edsimo, satisfactorio a m\u00faltiples niveles, que habla de temas como filosof\u00eda, arquitectura, ficci\u00f3n, arte, etc. La historia no es nada nuevo, es la de un hombre que pasa por una crisis y acaba perdi\u00e9ndolo todo, porque s\u00f3lo perdi\u00e9ndolo todo se dar\u00e1 cuenta de qu\u00e9 es lo realmente importante, y s\u00f3lo as\u00ed podr\u00e1 cambiar. Asterios Polyp es un arquitecto reputado de 50 a\u00f1os, aunque ninguno de sus dise\u00f1os ha sido nunca ejecutado, porque su fama viene 'Asterios Polyp' es un c\u00f3mic complejo, inteligente, riqu\u00edsimo, satisfactorio a m\u00faltiples niveles, que habla de temas como filosof\u00eda, arquitectura, ficci\u00f3n, arte, etc. La historia no es nada nuevo, es la de un hombre que pasa por una crisis y acaba perdi\u00e9ndolo todo, porque s\u00f3lo perdi\u00e9ndolo todo se dar\u00e1 cuenta de qu\u00e9 es lo realmente importante, y s\u00f3lo as\u00ed podr\u00e1 cambiar. Asterios Polyp es un arquitecto reputado de 50 a\u00f1os, aunque ninguno de sus dise\u00f1os ha sido nunca ejecutado, porque su fama viene de su tarea como profesor. Es un hombre c\u00ednico, egoc\u00e9ntrico, esnob, pr\u00e1ctico y materialista que no da importancia a lo que tiene. Hasta que un d\u00eda lo pierde todo. Luego empieza de nuevo en un sitio aleatorio. Y la gente que se encuentra por el camino, gente muy diferente a los intelectuales con los que est\u00e1 acostumbrado a tratar, le ayudar\u00e1n a evolucionar. En el fondo es una historia de amor: chico pierde a chica y no es hasta que la pierde que se da cuenta de hasta qu\u00e9 punto ella era importante para \u00e9l y hasta qu\u00e9 punto \u00e9l la anul\u00f3 como persona hasta que ella no tuvo m\u00e1s remedio que dejarlo. No es nada nuevo, pero est\u00e1 contado de una forma (narrativamente y visualmente) original, inteligente y eficaz. En el fondo habla de c\u00f3mo nos adaptamos a las personas que nos encontramos en el camino, c\u00f3mo estas nos hacen cambiar, lo dif\u00edcil (y maravilloso) que es encontrar una persona con la que sea f\u00e1cil adaptarse y que nos ayude a salir de nuestro caparaz\u00f3n y nos haga ver que las cosas no son siempre o blancas o negras, que en medio hay muchos matices. Una obra realmente deliciosa. ...more David Mazzucchelli\u2019s Asterios Polyp is quite a thing. A book that uses formalism in a way that is pleasing to the eye, buoyed by a story and characters pleasing to the mind (though I guess the art pleases both). Mazzucchelli has populated this book with a varied cast: narcissistic (and often insufferable) egomaniacs; a neglected beauty taken mostly for granted; a plain, hard-workin\u2019 mechanic who drops many a Norm Crosbyesque malopropism and many more. The art is an impressive m\u00e9lange of approach David Mazzucchelli\u2019s Asterios Polyp is quite a thing. A book that uses formalism in a way that is pleasing to the eye, buoyed by a story and characters pleasing to the mind (though I guess the art pleases both). Mazzucchelli has populated this book with a varied cast: narcissistic (and often insufferable) egomaniacs; a neglected beauty taken mostly for granted; a plain, hard-workin\u2019 mechanic who drops many a Norm Crosbyesque malopropism and many more. The art is an impressive m\u00e9lange of approaches, but totally harmonious. I don\u2019t want to reveal \u201cspoilers\u201d by mentioning specific sequences, but some are truly a master class in visual storytelling. Though Mazzucchelli has authored many excellent short works, his first original graphic novel is exactly that. This book was a long time coming, but it was worth the wait. Read it, then read it again. ...more This is hovering between a 4 and a 5 for me right now. Wow - really a sophisticated book. And can I just say that its so great to read a critiquely lauded graphic novel that is NOT a memoir. This was large in scope, nuanced in detail, and I think I need to read it again to grasp it all. The art was unexpected, with a mix of styles that really worked well together. Totally recommended to all my comic and literary fiction reading friends alike. This is a really excellent demonstration of the kind of depth in storytelling that a graphic novel format is capable of. I feel like graphic novels, as a form, are still kind of developing and becoming more and more accepted; their potential is still largely unexplored. Asterios Polyp has a really brilliant use of color and art style which greatly enhances the story that's being told. Each character is drawn a different way, with different dominant colors, different fonts for their speech, and a This is a really excellent demonstration of the kind of depth in storytelling that a graphic novel format is capable of. I feel like graphic novels, as a form, are still kind of developing and becoming more and more accepted; their potential is still largely unexplored. Asterios Polyp has a really brilliant use of color and art style which greatly enhances the story that's being told. Each character is drawn a different way, with different dominant colors, different fonts for their speech, and all these factors communicate things about their personality. The title character, Asterios Polyp, is drawn in hard blue lines, stylized like an architectural drawing. His word bubbles are sharp-edged, his font square, all of which represent elegantly his personality and the way he interacts with other people. His wife, Hana, is drawn in pink cross-hatched shading, all soft edges from her eyes to her speech bubbles, which are rounded. When they're in harmony, the two art styles combine; they're both drawn kind of organically in purple lines, unshadowed but also not architectural. When they argue, their styles separate again - it's not a hugely subtle effect, but it really enhances characterization and interactions. The color schemes vary between Asterios's present timeline story and the flashbacks showing how his life got to this point, which also helps to keep the two narratives straight in a very elegant manner. As far as the story being told here - I wouldn't say its content is extraordinary, as it's basically a portrait of a man's life falling apart as a result of his own hubris. This is a story that has already been told, and frequently. Asterios is not an extraordinarily sympathetic character, to the point that I found myself sympathizing far more with Hana - which I think is how it's supposed to be. He does grow, though, and in tandem he reveals more about himself. By the end of the book I think he's become sympathetic, in that while he does have flaws he seems to make an effort to change and improve - he's not perfect, but I can respect him for trying. (view spoiler) [that makes the ending, in which it is strongly implied that he and Hana are both crushed by a meteor just as they've made up again - pretty damn bittersweet. (hide spoiler) ] Looking back, I realize that I read this book three weeks ago, so I actually don't remember nearly as much as I wish I did. I would, however, really recommend it, particularly if you're interested in graphic novels as a storytelling form. This way of using color and font and style to enhance a story and to show things not communicated in words or the outright content of the images is one I'd like to see around more often, albeit slightly more subtly than it is here. Mazzucchelli definitely knows how to tell a story and pace it well, and the balance between words and images is very well-done. Real quality narrative skills, right here. Though... if you have an issue with nudity, it's probably not for you. Everyone else, keep an eye out for it! (sorry for the shitty review; I'm out of practice.) ...more I know firsthand how obnoxious know-it-alls can be because I live with one (actually one & 1/2 at this point, as my son is currently in training) & I've certainly been one myself on many occasions. \u201cPaper\u201d architect Asterios Polyp is also a know-it-all. There\u2019s a clear difference between just knowing something & knowing something to the exclusion of any other opinion & Asterios is firmly in the latter category. He doesn't really listen to his wife Hana because he assumes he's alw I know firsthand how obnoxious know-it-alls can be because I live with one (actually one & 1/2 at this point, as my son is currently in training) & I've certainly been one myself on many occasions. \u201cPaper\u201d architect Asterios Polyp is also a know-it-all. There\u2019s a clear difference between just knowing something & knowing something to the exclusion of any other opinion & Asterios is firmly in the latter category. He doesn't really listen to his wife Hana because he assumes he's always right. She'd like him to pay more attention to her (& maybe say something to the choreographer who keeps clumsily hitting on her, which she seems too shy to put an end to herself) but he's too busy crafting witty rebuttals to notice. Hana tells Asterios, in a way that is specifically in regard to someone else's knowledge of music but could generally be about their entire relationship, \"Couldn't it be possible that - maybe - Kalvin knows more about it than you?\" Hilariously, this is the same thing that I've often said to my own husband, mainly about planes, weapons, and waterfowl. The moral here could very easily be don\u2019t be such a blowhard or your wife might leave you (but not you, husband of mine, never you dear). You could also see is as quiet down & pay attention before it\u2019s too late. \u201cBut my brother always preferred the gods of our ancestors. By giving them human personalities, the ancient Greeks could feel that the world made sense because only the whims of a bunch of petty, bickering deities could explain the random even s of joy and tragedy that befall human beings . . . The pressure\u2019s off and everyone can be a supporting character in the larger story \u2013 however brief or collateral that role may be . . . each of those eighteen thousand days must have been as precious and unpredictable as this one. To live (as I understand it) is to exist within a conception of time. But to remember is to vacate the very notion of time.\u201d The ending of this book is like a wallop in the face, but you can\u2019t say that it doesn\u2019t stay true to that message. One person\u2019s destruction is just another person\u2019s shooting star to wish on & life goes on for all of us until it doesn\u2019t. I don\u2019t want to espouse some hackneyed clich\u00e9 like Live Every Day Like It\u2019s Your Last! because that seems spectacularly impossible, but Asterios finally seems to learn through reflection that maybe it\u2019s better to just quiet down & enjoy. Couldn\u2019t we all stand to do so once in a while? In a purely technical sense, this book is spectacular. I felt like I'd read this before when I started it because the artwork seemed so familiar, but I guess I was wrong; I would've remembered the story. I definitely would've remembered the technique of giving everyone a separate style of writing for their voice & held it up as something awesome that every graphic novel should emulate, I loved that. I sat down 30 minutes before work to read this & I\u2019m quite pleased that I did. ...more Artist/writer David Mazzucchelli has had one of the more twisted career paths of any artist I know. He began in conventional comics, becoming well-known illustrating Frank Miller's Daredevil , then he disappeared for awhile, emerging with an entirely new style. His new, fluid line was perfect for Miller's DC hit, Batman: Year One . Then Mazzucchelli dropped off the radar again. This time, he showed up illustrating a graphic novelization of Paul Auster's City of Glass: The Graphic Novel , a metaph Artist/writer David Mazzucchelli has had one of the more twisted career paths of any artist I know. He began in conventional comics, becoming well-known illustrating Frank Miller's Daredevil , then he disappeared for awhile, emerging with an entirely new style. His new, fluid line was perfect for Miller's DC hit, Batman: Year One . Then Mazzucchelli dropped off the radar again. This time, he showed up illustrating a graphic novelization of Paul Auster's City of Glass: The Graphic Novel , a metaphysical detective story. This was a major step away from the comic books for which he was known, and a step up in quality and sophistication. His drawings took on an otherworldy presence, part abstraction, part gritty realism, perfect for Auster's text. He followed that with a few issues of self-published avant garde art magazine, Rubber Blanket , which became even more esoteric and exploratory. His output in the last few years has been sparse, and I missed his influence in the world of comic art. Which brings us to his latest work, Asterios Polyp . Asterios Polyp is a stylistic masterpiece, a perfect blend of visuals and text. Each tell the story in a way that neither could on their own. Asterios Polyp is the story of a snobbish, apparently emotionless know-it-all architect, whose theories about life and art enclose him in a hermetically sealed existence. On the opposite side is his wife who is caring and emotional, artistically organic, and seeks to find a form for her art in the world around her. The two come to a collision, then a resolution that enhances both points of view. A couple of quick notes: I was put off a little at first in the severe change in style (yet again) that Mazzucchelli displays, but I got over that quickly. The book is impeccably produced--the printing is extraordinary. The writing gets a bit \"precious\" at times, but that is also a minor quibble. Graphic novels are seldom \"art.\" This one is the real deal. ...more Quando colori e grafica si trasformano in contenuti Asterios Polyp \u00e8 la storia di un uomo che all'et\u00e0 di cinquant'anni, per una serie di ragioni, decide di cambiare vita e cercare il senso della propria esistenza. In questa sorta di viaggio vediamo la ricerca interiore del protagonista attraverso i flashback dei momenti salienti della sua vita alternata allo svolgimento del suo presente. Asterios \u00e8 un architetto \u201cdi carta\u201d, progettista di edifici mai realizzati, che deve continuamente confrontare Quando colori e grafica si trasformano in contenuti Asterios Polyp \u00e8 la storia di un uomo che all'et\u00e0 di cinquant'anni, per una serie di ragioni, decide di cambiare vita e cercare il senso della propria esistenza. In questa sorta di viaggio vediamo la ricerca interiore del protagonista attraverso i flashback dei momenti salienti della sua vita alternata allo svolgimento del suo presente. Asterios \u00e8 un architetto \u201cdi carta\u201d, progettista di edifici mai realizzati, che deve continuamente confrontare la sua ordinata e rassicurante razionalit\u00e0 con il caos dei sentimenti e degli affetti. E' ossessionato da una visione assolutamente dicotomica delle cose, che vengono viste sempre e comunque come distinte e in contrapposizione: marito e moglie, maschile e femminile, astratto e concreto, reale e ideale, architettura teorica verso quella creata, linea e forma, solido e liquido, presente e passato. Questi due modi diversi di vedere il mondo, ordinato e caotico, reale e ideale, empatico e cinico si riflettono nei diversi comportamenti di Asterios e della moglie. Inutile dire che alla fine del suo percorso di crescita Asterios virer\u00e0 verso una visione meno razionale della vita... Punto di forza molto importante \u00e8 che il tutto sia rappresentato da efficaci dualismi di colori e grafica, blu e magenta per il passato, giallo per il presente, tratteggio o linea piena, prospettive che ci aiutano a comprendere meglio lo svolgimento della narrazione stessa. Perfino il font cambia per ciascun personaggio. Il risultato \u00e8 un libro graficamente molto molto bello, in ogni suo dettaglio. Cerebrale, sofisticato, interessante, affascinante e piacevolissimo da leggere. Incantato. ...more Allow me to steal from Pete Holmes and say what would I have done if this book came out in the 90s, before we had \"Really?!?\"? When I got to the end, without that comfortable exclamation of frustrated disbelief, I would have had to raise my eyebrow so high that it might have flown off my head. Mostly Asterios Polyp is an amazing book, fusing different artistic styles that, no matter how showy, always advance the narrative, and has a plot that, while not as bold as something like Jimmy Corrigan, i Allow me to steal from Pete Holmes and say what would I have done if this book came out in the 90s, before we had \"Really?!?\"? When I got to the end, without that comfortable exclamation of frustrated disbelief, I would have had to raise my eyebrow so high that it might have flown off my head. Mostly Asterios Polyp is an amazing book, fusing different artistic styles that, no matter how showy, always advance the narrative, and has a plot that, while not as bold as something like Jimmy Corrigan, is fresh. However, the final 20 pages Mazzucchelli makes choice after choice that feel wrong. Characters do things that don't seem like they would and things happen that Mazzucchelli tries to use enough literary techniques to make palatable but are not*. Given the skill he showed throughout the book, I feel I should give Mazzucchelli the most generous read possible, but I can't really formulate that right now. * This complaint is coming from someone who has repeatedly defended Infinite Jest ...more This is the best graphic novel I've read in a long time. From the beginning scene-setting of Asterios' apartment with his Brewer chairs and whatnot ... man, I can't list all the things I loved about this book without basically just describing everything about it. The intertwined narrative threads with the slow reveal of the flashbacks; the beautiful characterisations (Hana's face shape under her hair, her outrageously large eyes and roundness totally expressing the character), all the clever-clo This is the best graphic novel I've read in a long time. From the beginning scene-setting of Asterios' apartment with his Brewer chairs and whatnot ... man, I can't list all the things I loved about this book without basically just describing everything about it. The intertwined narrative threads with the slow reveal of the flashbacks; the beautiful characterisations (Hana's face shape under her hair, her outrageously large eyes and roundness totally expressing the character), all the clever-clogs style, like the changes in the formal structure of the page or the line to convey extra information in the narrative. The detached and subtle way the pretentiousness of his life path as theoretical architect is portrayed; even the Greek references and the lost brother story. The generosity of the characters as well; the dream sequences; the everything. It was really just a treat, this one. ...more I can now say that I've read Asterios Polyp, but I can't say that I've finished Asterios Polyp. This is the kind of book that has layers inside layers - like an onion inside of... a turducken. A turduckenion, if you will. I feel like you can't get a truly complete sense of the intricacies here without a second, third, fourth reading. Even skimming through after reading the final page, I picked up so much information, so much context that I initially missed. I should say that for a large part of t I can now say that I've read Asterios Polyp, but I can't say that I've finished Asterios Polyp. This is the kind of book that has layers inside layers - like an onion inside of... a turducken. A turduckenion, if you will. I feel like you can't get a truly complete sense of the intricacies here without a second, third, fourth reading. Even skimming through after reading the final page, I picked up so much information, so much context that I initially missed. I should say that for a large part of this book, I had the profound sense that \"I'm not smart enough to be reading this.\" The presentation is so strange, but strange in a way that is clearly intentional, clearly calculated. Every frame position, every shape of every word bubble, every piece of language is constructed to say something . It's a bit overwhelming how intelligently crafted this is, and how \"in your face\" that craft is. Yes, there's a pretty simple personal journey being told here, but in many ways, it's more hidden than the complex imagery and philosophical statements. To me, this seems like a perfect companion piece to Scott McCloud's Understanding Comics. Only read this if you are prepared to think critically about each and every page. ...more After all the buildup and critical praise heaped on this book, my expectations were quite high. So it was something of a disappointment not to love this book. That said, I did read it rather quickly. And to its credit, the book presents an atypical protagonist for the graphic novel format. That is, a character who is not mired in outright depressing circumstances from dawn til dusk and who is articulate and socially functional. So the book is novel in this regard, or at least breaks off into a n After all the buildup and critical praise heaped on this book, my expectations were quite high. So it was something of a disappointment not to love this book. That said, I did read it rather quickly. And to its credit, the book presents an atypical protagonist for the graphic novel format. That is, a character who is not mired in outright depressing circumstances from dawn til dusk and who is articulate and socially functional. So the book is novel in this regard, or at least breaks off into a new direction from the common trope of the asocial, wayward introvert who has no luck with women. The narrative is a straightforward one and not really the point. The book seems instead to be expressing some interest in the dichotomy between duality and fludity, or, as Polyp himself puts it, linear and plastic. But I never saw these themes as convincingly concluded, instead just touched upon recurrently and a bit obsessively. All this said, Mazzuchelli is no doubt a master of the panel (or lack thereof) and does a few things here with lettering, simple color, and speech balloons that I've never seen done before. ...more This graphic novel deserves a place on the shelf alongside Fun Home and Persepolis--a novel about an architect who has never built anything, but is reknown for his abstract constructions, who finds himself homeless, perhaps intentionally, and goes out in the world to lose himself. the story toggles between his past, his overweening egotism, his failed relationship to a woman and to his career, and his current state of vagabondage, when he finds work with a compassionate auto mechanic, and is tak This graphic novel deserves a place on the shelf alongside Fun Home and Persepolis--a novel about an architect who has never built anything, but is reknown for his abstract constructions, who finds himself homeless, perhaps intentionally, and goes out in the world to lose himself. the story toggles between his past, his overweening egotism, his failed relationship to a woman and to his career, and his current state of vagabondage, when he finds work with a compassionate auto mechanic, and is taken into the family home. Although I'm not a graphic-novel aficionado, I loved this one--smart, quirky, intellectually stimulating as well as emotionally realistic, the illustrations giving dimension to the tale, a beautiful large format book. A great gift for a smart person who says they 'don't have time to read.' ...more One of a few genius books in graphic novels, one of the great ones. And improbably, about a logical, theoretical architect! To really appreciate this one, you may have to BE an artist, because much if the story is in form, color, design... so I am still learning, but it is done by a superhero artist, who for years has labored in the background (except he is also the Batman One guy)... who breaks out in his own brilliant direction... You know, you have this almost completely unlikeable character, One of a few genius books in graphic novels, one of the great ones. And improbably, about a logical, theoretical architect! To really appreciate this one, you may have to BE an artist, because much if the story is in form, color, design... so I am still learning, but it is done by a superhero artist, who for years has labored in the background (except he is also the Batman One guy)... who breaks out in his own brilliant direction... You know, you have this almost completely unlikeable character, Asterios, who sees the world from a very logical perspective, very limited to Reason, enlightenment-based modernism... and his life has fallen apart... but the people he encounters, the situations he lives through, they affect him... ...more Que quadrinho incr\u00edvel!! Amei tudo, a constru\u00e7\u00e3o dos personagens, o enredo, o uso das cores/tra\u00e7o/fonte/bal\u00f5es... Ainda estou digerindo tudo, e d\u00e1 muita vontade de reler, pois tem muitos detalhes. Incrivelmente rico. Went over my head. And so I was thinking whether I should avoid giving a rating, but then remembered how people with refined taste bashed Chetan Bhagat's 2 states and Five Point Someone :P", "Title": "Asterios Polyp"},
