{"Comments": "5 THINGS I LIKED ABOUT A LITTLE LIFE (<---B>AND 5 THINGS I DIDN'T</---B>) Everyone\u2019s talking about <---A>Hanya Yanagihara</---A>\u2019s Booker- and National Book Award-nominated blockbuster novel. There are lots of 5 star raves on this site. Many people are saying it\u2019s one of the most incredible books they\u2019ve ever read. I hate to be the outlier or considered cold-hearted (I\u2019m not! I cry over books and movies ALL THE TIME!!!). The book took me just under 2 weeks to finish, and I\u2019m glad I read it. I liked it, I really liked it! B 5 THINGS I LIKED ABOUT A LITTLE LIFE (AND 5 THINGS I DIDN'T) Everyone\u2019s talking about Hanya Yanagihara\u2019s Booker- and National Book Award-nominated blockbuster novel. There are lots of 5 star raves on this site. Many people are saying it\u2019s one of the most incredible books they\u2019ve ever read. I hate to be the outlier or considered cold-hearted (I\u2019m not! I cry over books and movies ALL THE TIME!!!). The book took me just under 2 weeks to finish, and I\u2019m glad I read it. I liked it, I really liked it! But I also didn\u2019t.<---F> Here\u2019s why</---F>. THINGS I LIKED 1. The power of friendship If this book had a theme song it might be the Beatles\u2019 \u201cWith A Little Help From My Friends.\u201d Four roommates at an Eastern college move to the Big Apple and become huge successes: J.B. becomes a hip downtown artist; the well-off Malcolm is a well-known architect; Willem goes from waiter to movie star practically overnight; Jude is a lawyer, first at the D.A.\u2019s office and then at a prestigious corporate firm, where he works himself up and becomes a partner. Over the decades,<---M> their friendship endures</---M>, through spats, early career struggles, J.B.\u2019s drug addiction and, most of all, dealing with the effects of Jude\u2019s unspeakably abusive past on his current life, although Jude is terrified to tell anyone about that abuse. The novel is also refreshing in its depiction of race, gender and sexual orientation. 2. The depiction of the effects of abuse My one major takeaway from this book is a fuller understanding of the after-effects of systemic childhood abuse. Jude, an orphan raised at a monastery, the first site of his sadistic stations of the cross, feels absolutely worthless. He cuts himself (if you\u2019re squeamish, you\u2019ve been warned). He bangs himself against walls. In one particularly harrowing scene, he sets himself on fire. Beyond that, he can\u2019t trust anyone and doesn\u2019t feel he\u2019s worthy of love, even though as an adult he gets nothing BUT unconditional love (with one notable exception). For the people who adore him (not just J.B., Malcolm and Willem but Harold, his former law professor, who, with his wife Julia, adopt Jude at age 30, and Andy, the most supportive physician on the planet), this is beyond frustrating. A good one-third to one-half of the book recounts all of that. 3. The way Jude\u2019s brutal past is layered into the story Yanagihara expertly weaves the story of Jude\u2019s abusive past into his present-day narrative. And in the character of Brother Luke (especially), she understands how abusers manipulate. 4. J.B.\u2019s art The descriptions of J.B.\u2019s art projects, from his early, experimental pieces as a student \u2013 one involves collecting people\u2019s real hair \u2013 to the shows that get him attention and fame, all feel authentic. My only question would be the scope and range of his work. The subjects of his art all seem to be his friends. Really? He has no other interests? Or is this merely a comment on #1 (above)? [Side note: the cover photo for the North American edition is brutally powerful: it\u2019s called Orgasmic Man, and captures the feeling of ecstatic turmoil vividly.] 5. The prose Obviously a book has to be decent to keep you absorbed for over 700 pages. Yanagihara knows how to string you along. Jude has problems walking \u2013 he\u2019s vague in his description about how this happened \u2013 and once she plants the idea of Jude\u2019s abuse, she makes you wonder what EXACTLY happened to him. And as with any coming-of-age book, you want to know where they end up. THINGS I DIDN\u2019T LIKE (PLEASE DON\u2019T HATE ME!) 1. The total lack of historical context Characters use the internet and cellphones, but no world events occur. The only things that register are the friends\u2019 cultural milestones: JB\u2019s retrospective, Willem\u2019s movies (which, incidentally, all have horrible, unlikely titles), Malcolm\u2019s buildings, Jude\u2019s cases. There\u2019s something incredibly narcissistic about this. Seriously? Nothing on 9/11? The economic downturn didn\u2019t affect Malcolm\u2019s Upper East Side family? J.B. is of Haitian background; were any relatives affected by the earthquake? No one \u2013 not one friend, colleague, etc. \u2013 is dealing with HIV? (We\u2019re told Jude\u2019s body is riddled with disease, but never get the details.) 2. The implausibility Not only is Jude a top-notch litigator, but he\u2019s also a brilliant mathematician. AND an excellent pianist. AND a singer of lieder. During school (full scholarship), he has a job at a bakery (oh, he\u2019s also an amazing baker). So\u2026 when - and HOW - did he learn how to play piano and study German art songs? Seriously. I want to know. What bothers me is the assumption beneath all of this. Does he have to be so good at all of these things for people to love him? If someone has been abused and ISN\u2019T as accomplished, isn\u2019t this person just as worthy of love and understanding? For that matter, WHY do people love Jude? I don\u2019t get it. All he seems to be doing for the entire book is saying, \u201cI\u2019m sorry.\u201d Which brings me to... Why are these guys all friends, again? Cuz they went to the same school? We don\u2019t get enough about their early years to know what solidifies their friendship. Yanagihara just TELLS us they are friends, and we have to accept it. For 700 pages. Which brings me to\u2026 3. The Repetition The book needed more serious editing. It could have lost 250 pages easily. About \u2153 of the way in, I thought, somewhat heartlessly (I know, I know), \u201cImagine taking a drink every time Jude says \u2018I\u2019m sorry.\u2019\u201d I\u2019d love to search how many times that phrase pops up, as well as the word \u201cshame.\u201d Just saying. We get it , Hanya. 4. Lifestyle porn Not only do all four friends become enormous successes in their fields, but they\u2019re constantly jetting off to exotic places (Paris for the weekend? Why not?!), buying up lofts (stylish and trendy downtown, of course, NEVER uptown) and having Malcolm decorate them in the best Architectural Digest taste. And then there\u2019s the cultural snobbery. I howled when Willem was going to film Chekhov\u2019s Uncle Vanya and ALL OF HIS FRIENDS KNEW THE CHARACTERS FROM THE PLAY. I\u2019ve seen Vanya several times, and even I don\u2019t know all the characters in the play. 5. Black and white characters I\u2019m not talking about race, here. I\u2019m talking about people who are either ALL GOOD or ALL BAD. We\u2019re all somewhere in the middle, but not in Yanigihara\u2019s universe. Which made me think that the book needs to be read as a fable, an urban fairy tale, not realism. Is that why there are no historic markers? Because this is some Dickensian book set in chic SoHo? I don\u2019t know. But if these people who we spend so much time with had more shading, I\u2019d probably have liked \u2013 and BELIEVED \u2013 it a lot more. *** Final thoughts : obviously Yanagihara has tapped into something serious and profound with this book. I think people are responding to it because in some way we all feel damaged, used, unloved \u2013 although not to the extent that Jude does. Most of us learn to overcome our insecurities and move on. He's that terrified child we all carry around inside ourselves, saying we're no good, we're not attractive, we're not worthy of love. I just wish all this had been done with a bit more subtlety. Life isn't so black and white. Yanagihara should know that, as we get older, we learn to accept, and live with, fascinating shades of grey. And that if she had brought out those complex greys, the book would feel more authentic and less sentimental. ...more <+++>A Little Life</+++> is a strong contender for the award for the most depressing book I've ever read . I swear I'm not even exaggerating. At this point, I'm not certain whether this is a positive or negative review. There's no doubt that this book is beautifully-written and contains some of the most raw and honest prose I've ever had the pleasure or misfortune of reading, but it's a long very long character study - over 700 pages of misery, substance abuse, self-harm, sexual and psychological abuse (and <+++>A Little Life</+++> is a strong contender for the award for the most depressing book I've ever read . I swear I'm not even exaggerating. At this point, I'm not certain whether this is a positive or negative review. There's no doubt that this book is beautifully-written and contains some of the most raw and honest prose I've ever had the pleasure or misfortune of reading, but it's a long very long character study - over 700 pages of misery, substance abuse, self-harm, sexual and psychological abuse (and its aftermath), with very little of that \"light\" promised in the blurb. There's a section of this book called \"The Happy Years\" and never has a title been more misleading, if you ask me. But let me give you some idea what this book is about first. It starts with four young friends moving to New York - poor and uncertain of themselves - and trying to make their way. The characterization of JB, Malcolm, Willem and Jude is, to put it plainly, marvelous. They are such complex, well-crafted individuals with their own passions, hopes and fears. While the book details the lives of all four of them, Jude finds himself at the centre of this story, influencing the lives of his three friends. The more you read of A Little Life , the more you realize that it is really a novel about Jude, and the other three characters - though important - are secondary to the story of Jude's journey from a childhood full of sexual abuse to an unhappy adulthood. Those promised \"The Happy Years\" are some of the most heartbreaking chapters I've ever read. I read another review where the person said she had to put the book down because this part of the book was too close and personal. To quote the reviewer: I feel like someone shoved their hand in my torso and started stroking my organs while a therapist sits there observing and then asks me, \"now, how does that make you feel?\" I know what she means. It's brutally, painfully honest. It makes you feel like you're witnessing something you shouldn't be in the relationship between Willem and Jude. And, by the way, it is one of the most interesting, strange and truly depressing relationships I've ever encountered. The fear Jude feels that this relationship will be pulled apart by his own problems is palpable, and the lengths he goes to in order to conceal his issues made me so sad for him. But I can foresee the future onslaught of negative reviews that call this book \"torture porn\". It is so helplessly bleak. Everything bad that can possibly happen to Jude seems to happen and even when he finds someone to love him in his \"happy years\", that too is tainted by his past. Also, I find that very few books actually need to have this many pages. Almost all books over 600 pages seem too long to me, with many scenes feeling like they weren't needed and should be cut out. While I appreciated the depth of the character development, I'm certain that at least 100 pages of this book could have been shed without losing any emotional punch. Some of the character development felt dragged out way too long; one instance that comes to mind is the descriptions of JB's art - from his time building models out of hair, to his paintings - I feel like my understanding of JB and his relationship with art could have been achieved in far fewer pages. This is one of those books that brings a whole lot of genius to the table but very little real enjoyment. It's long, slow in parts, and very VERY depressing. But if you are not put off by the length and the dark subject matter, I would say it's the kind of book that needs to be read. It's the kind of book people will talk about and it's the kind of book that has you saying \"this is the most ________ book/relationship/characterization I have ever read\". And that really is kind of amazing. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more I can't, with a clear conscience, give this book anything less than 5 stars. It's a book that kept me reading long into the night, made me turn each page with vigor and curiosity, gave me chills and shivers over the joys and sorrows of each character, and ultimately left me feeling a bit older and tortured and yet at peace with the deeply complicated nature of humanity. What Hanya Yanagihara does with A Little Life is nothing nearly as pretentious as that paragraph above. Somehow in 720 pages, s I can't, with a clear conscience, give this book anything less than 5 stars. It's a book that kept me reading long into the night, made me turn each page with vigor and curiosity, gave me chills and shivers over the joys and sorrows of each character, and ultimately left me feeling a bit older and tortured and yet at peace with the deeply complicated nature of humanity. What Hanya Yanagihara does with A Little Life is nothing nearly as pretentious as that paragraph above. Somehow in 720 pages, she manages to adequately--better yet, excellently--show and make the reader experiences the lives of these young men. The novel follows four boys who meet at college: Malcolm, JB, Willem, and the central and mysterious figure, Jude. It's truly Jude's tale, but Yanagihara ends up telling each and every one of the boys' stories with ease and genuineness that makes them real. Her prose is clean and honest and revealing of the many emotions that humans experience. It's never explicitly beautiful, not flowery or overwrought with adjectives or descriptors. But it has its own beauty that comes from its ability to convey these feelings, making you feel every pain or happiness that Malcolm and JB and Willem and Jude feel. It's some of the best prose I've read in a while (or ever read), and I wanted it to keep going on forever. There's so much more I could say about this book. About how it hurt me to read at times--because yes, there is very graphic material (i.e. self-harm, physical, sexual and psychological abuse, drug use) that makes the reading cringeworthy in parts--about how I fell in love with so many wonderful people in this story, about how I learned empathy and sorrow and frustration and anger for and with each of them, and how if I were to write a book I would want it to have the essence of this one. The truth is, though, I can't recommend this book to people, not without knowing them very well. Because it's a difficult journey that I can't suggest everyone take. Don't take this book lightly. But if you do choose to read it, if you choose to flip to that first page, be prepared for something inexplicable and jarring, but resilient and beautiful and ultimately worthwhile. ...more It may sound presumptuous to say in January that I've read the best book I've read all year, but reading is a lot like love. Sometimes you just know. A LITTLE LIFE is a title with 3 meanings. First, it refers to its protagonist, Jude, a man who cannot ever accept that his life is worthwhile. Second, it refers to the act of reading it, spending time in this book is really like living a version of life. There is a third meaning, one that you don't discover until around halfway through the book when It may sound presumptuous to say in January that I've read the best book I've read all year, but reading is a lot like love. Sometimes you just know. A LITTLE LIFE is a title with 3 meanings. First, it refers to its protagonist, Jude, a man who cannot ever accept that his life is worthwhile. Second, it refers to the act of reading it, spending time in this book is really like living a version of life. There is a third meaning, one that you don't discover until around halfway through the book when the title's words are used in a context that is like a punch to the gut. When you read them you may find yourself having a physical reaction, your stomach may flip, your skin may go cold, you may gasp for breath. And that is a lot of what the experience of reading this book is like. You can call these parts of the book words like \"awful,\" but to be real you'd need to pull out your thesaurus and just line them up one after the other. This is not a book that is easy for your emotions. You care about the people in it, so the pain can really hurt you. You will hear that this is a book about 4 friends. It's not. They're a nice framing device, but this is a book about one person and the people who are connected to him. His life is made up of extremes. I found myself weeping over and over again because of the love and compassion and kindness that characters in the book displayed. But this book has some of the most harrowing and horrifying scenes I've read anywhere. It is not really spoiling anything to say this involves terrible things happening to a child. Everyone knows from the very beginning that something bad happened to Jude when he was young. It's just so much worse than you could imagine. (If you have trouble reading about child abuse, it's probably best you not read this book. While it's essential to the story, it is not glossed over or referenced vaguely and what is described is truly terrible to contemplate.) Jude is not a new character. The damaged soul whose self-worth never really recovers is present in a lot of modern fiction. Yanagihara's trick, I think, is just how willing she is to plumb the depths of his darkness and its effects on those around him. She follows him for decades, observes him in all situations, and is unflinching in her depictions. Her writing is the kind of good that you can miss if you're not paying attention. You are so caught up in her story that it's easy to miss just how agile and careful the book is. It eases back and forth from character to character, backwards and forwards in time, and it never feels strained. I stayed up for hours to finish this book and then couldn't sleep because I couldn't let it go. I was overcome by the book and by the loss of finishing it. This is a book about love and what it means and what it can do and it is the humanity of its characters and their love for each other that will stick with me. If it was presumptuous to say this is my favorite book of 2015 since it tries to predict the future, I do feel that I can dig through the past and assert with certainty that this is one of the best books I've ever read. ...more Some believe that this is \u201cThe Great Gay Novel.\u201d That couldn\u2019t be more wrong. There are only two recognizable gay men in this work, JB and Caleb. A creative queen and a violent, probably psychopathic, sadist. All the other \u201cpossibilities\u201d are pedophiles (categorically not gay\u2014that\u2019s a sickness, an evil, that has nothing to do with being gay) or so hopelessly confused (and impotent) that you can\u2019t know what they are (JB and Willem). The take on gay men here is antediluvian\u2014a dangerous and discred Some believe that this is \u201cThe Great Gay Novel.\u201d That couldn\u2019t be more wrong. There are only two recognizable gay men in this work, JB and Caleb. A creative queen and a violent, probably psychopathic, sadist. All the other \u201cpossibilities\u201d are pedophiles (categorically not gay\u2014that\u2019s a sickness, an evil, that has nothing to do with being gay) or so hopelessly confused (and impotent) that you can\u2019t know what they are (JB and Willem). The take on gay men here is antediluvian\u2014a dangerous and discredited brand of heteronormative delusion in which all gay men, no matter the glittering surface of their lives, are fated only to die a lonely, miserable death. Caleb dies an excruciating death (so we\u2019re told) from pancreatic cancer. JB, the witty, flamboyant, unstable, creative queen is merely a plot point. His happiness, told but not shown, at the bitter end doesn\u2019t mean anything more than that. He\u2019s a device to wring one more regret from you, one more sorrow. You can be assured that he, too, will die an ignoble death just beyond this novel\u2019s last page. And you won\u2019t be troubled or offended or titillated by the gay sex (or really any sex) here because there isn\u2019t any: it\u2019s the sex that dare not speak its name. All this is because the author knows absolutely nothing about gay men other than the most superficial stereotypes and doesn\u2019t have the imagination to venture deeper than that. She can\u2019t even imagine that a man (Willem) doesn\u2019t need a woman to quench his sexual needs\u2014he has a solution readily at hand. Some people believe this is a novel about friendship. That also couldn\u2019t be more wrong. The author warns you early on [225] that friendship is nothing but the slow drip of miseries. This book is not about friends, it is about enablers. All the main characters are there specifically to enable Jude, which is precisely what destroys him. Were they his friends, they would never have let things progress the way they did. Some people believe that a strength of this book is that the author's presence is not felt. This also couldn\u2019t be more wrong. There is absolutely nothing here that is not the author\u2019s presence. It is all tell and no show. The characters are cartoons. They can\u2019t grow. They can\u2019t surprise. All they can do is grind the meticulous plot forward. They are not here for any other purpose. They aren\u2019t really characters at all, just cogs in a machine. Every novel demands, by necessity, some suspension of disbelief. But no novel can be unbelievable. But that\u2019s all we\u2019re told. Four adolescents are thrown together as suitemates at a highly prestigious Cambridge college (wink, wink) and we\u2019re told, not shown, that they effortlessly go on to become the best, the most famous\u2014trial lawyer, actor, artist, and architect. The actor and architect might squeak by as believable, but not the trial lawyer, not the artist. From what we\u2019re told about the trial lawyer, it\u2019s impossible to reconcile his catastrophic, constricted, precarious little life with the cold, predatory, expert were told he is. From what we\u2019re told about the artist, it\u2019s impossible to believe, even in New York City\u2019s insular and provincial art world, that the same series of portraits from photographs of the same three men over and over and over again will raise him to the top of that art world. The artists, the real ones, the author cites are all mediocre; the one she tells surely must be likewise. Moreover, we\u2019re told that that men, all men, have a permanent, genetic, stunted repertoire of emotion, have a tiny emotional toolbox. And that their character is fixed at some ill defined state in their past and beyond that no change can ever take place. Growth, change, redemption\u2014all are denied. Thus, we don\u2019t get characters, we get cartoons. Cardboard cutouts. They are here only to satisfy the deliberate plotting. They are only means to the author\u2019s ends, nothing more. And to add to the unbelievability: the villains, puerile: the pedophiles\u2014Catholic clergy, Dickensonian orphanage counselors, a homicidal psychiatrist, long-haul truckers, a vast nationwide network of solitary and group child predators; and, of course, the brutal, violent gay psychopath. Even granting evil is banal, this is beneath banal. Cartoon. Cardboard. What\u2019s lacking here, and elsewhere, everywhere in this novel, is any imagination beyond just that: the banal; the puerile; the stereotype. Not to dwell on the unbelievable, but it permeates this book. Nonexistent syndromes. Nonexistent legal cases. Hyenas that climb trees. And over and over and over the doctor, Andy: he fails every duty of care, everything that physicians stand for, believe in, dedicate their lives to\u2014he\u2019s there only to enable. He doesn\u2019t report what must be reported, not just legally but morally. And, of course, plot over believability, neither do any other of the medical professionals, doctors and nurses, a legion of them through whose care Jude passes. They all turn a blind eye to the evidence of his abuse, his self abuse. Andy neglects to mention the very real and virtually insoluble problem of phantom pain when he explains amputation to Jude, but then just that develops post-op, only to be brushed aside a few pages later. It doesn\u2019t work that way. (And, really, it would have meshed perfectly with the author\u2019s plot. Another failure of imagination?) And, fundamentally: physicians don\u2019t treat their friends, their family. That\u2019s a recipe for disaster. Unless disaster is precisely the aim. And I just can\u2019t let it go: lunch at obviously Le Bernardin, Willem without a jacket. No way. No man dines there who is not wearing a jacket. And especially not an actor, no matter how famous. Here, I guess, the point where the author did let her imagination run wild. And I\u2019d be remiss not to mention the language. Suited to its task. Occasionally it seems almost to take flight, but when it does, it seems more appropriate for a glossy travel magazine. And it almost always tries to take flight in just such a milieu: Bhutan, the Alhambra. Most people think that this 720 page novel is too long. Way too long. But imagine what it would be were it the size of most all contemporary novels, 250-350 pages, more or less. Half or less what it is now. What would it be? Even more obviously the ridiculous cartoon that it is. The length is intrinsic to this work. It is long, patiently and meticulously plotted. The very length is part and parcel of its purpose. The reader made to suffer, one with the gears of the plot. That\u2019s the whole point. The leitmotif is sorrow. Everyone is always saying \u201cI\u2019m sorry.\u201d Over and over and over and over again. Of course, thus sorrow loses all meaning, becomes trite. But meanwhile the author is carefully and meticulously adhering to the through line, everyone will suffer, every character, the reader. It\u2019s nothing but melodramatic manipulation. So what is this after I\u2019ve rambled on about what it isn\u2019t? I think it\u2019s a masterpiece of a new kind, joining closely related genres such as mommy porn and the venerable bodice rippers: this is authorial sadism. The author is a \u201cliterary\u201d (if you can dignify her as such) dominatrix. Every character set up to fail, no possibility of redemption, growth. And the person who suffers the most in the end is the reader. Set up to be crushed. Again: that\u2019s the whole point. All of us are the stories we tell. No less the novelist. If you read this book and found it amazing, I\u2019m sorry. If you haven\u2019t read this book, don\u2019t. ...more I slept with this book after I read it. I kid you not: I held its bulking, hardcover bound 700 pages in my arms as I fell asleep amid a raging storm. I refused to let A Little Life leave me. Its brilliant writing, its broken characters, and its bleak, unforgiving story dug into my heart, into the very pores of my skin. As a twenty-year-old, I felt both so young and so old upon finishing this novel, as if its sheer humanity aged my soul while making me appreciate all the years I still have left. A I slept with this book after I read it. I kid you not: I held its bulking, hardcover bound 700 pages in my arms as I fell asleep amid a raging storm. I refused to let A Little Life leave me. Its brilliant writing, its broken characters, and its bleak, unforgiving story dug into my heart, into the very pores of my skin. As a twenty-year-old, I felt both so young and so old upon finishing this novel, as if its sheer humanity aged my soul while making me appreciate all the years I still have left. A Little Life follows four friends after they graduate from a small, prestigious Massachusetts college: Willem, a kind and talented actor; JB, a sharp and sometimes-caustic artist, Malcolm, an aspiring architect at a well-known firm; and Jude, a mysterious and intelligent litigator. What looks like an average bildungsroman turns into an intense and tragic tale when we learn about enigmatic Jude's backstory. Abandoned at a monastery at birth, he endured a childhood of severe physical and emotional abuse, followed by several years of sexual abuse, forced prostitution, and psychological trauma. The book soon hones in on Jude's struggle to free himself from the demons of his past, the hyenas that howl and drown out the voices of his closest, most beloved friends. This book is relentlessly sad and exquisitely written. Hanya Yanagihara spares us no mercy when revealing Jude's trauma. She details both his past abuse and his present self-harm with explicit specificity, her diction so precise and piercing it made me shake, and at times, sob. Yanagihara writes both Jude's suffering and his friendships with a keen eye. She captures the nuances of human emotion, physical space, and change over time with eloquence and heart. She writes about some of the most wretched, abominable acts of cruelty I have ever read without sentimentalizing any of the abuse or making any of the characters' feelings mawkish. Yanagihara offers us temporary respite from the pain within Jude's past by showing us the power of friendship. A Little Life 's most affective moments come not from its graphic depictions of violence, but from its quiet, uplifting portrayals of compassion. While the many abusive men in Jude's earlier life show us the depth of human atrocity, Jude's tender, bittersweet relationships with Willem, Harold, Andy, and others offer to us mankind's capacity for kindness. All of these complex characters make mistakes, and through their imperfections shines their humanness. Please keep in mind: A Little Life is ruthlessly depressing. In the end, Jude really receives no reprieve from his anguish. As someone who has suffered his own abuse - a version less intense than Jude's, yet still real - and as someone who reads a lot about abuse, I appreciated Yanagihara's dedication to showing the darker side of reality. Trauma is trauma is trauma. And while we can all fight for recovery, sometimes that absolvement may never come. Sometimes, we just have to act with whatever kindness we have left and hope that it brings even a moment of light into the dark. Highly recommended to anyone who wants their heart both filled and destroyed. Set aside some quality time for A Little Life . It will consume you. ...more Brilliant, devastating, heartbreaking. Fucking hatefully sad at times. There are places that are overwrought and overwritten but this is an amazing, engrossing novel. Just wow. You get a first read only once. I don't know what to say. It's the book of my life. Not that it mirrors my life, but that it's the literary love of my life. I know I get hyperbolic about this kind of stuff, but it is what it is. The most cathartic reading experience I've ever had. I'm shaking and crying writing this. How to move on after this one - hard to imagine I will. Brace yourself for the most melodramatic, pretentious, dull, dumb, overwritten, repetitive, laughable, cringe-inducing, self-indulgent, unbelievable, stereotypical, voyeuristic, contrived piece of fiction. After pushing through and trying to motivate myself to finish this book just to see if there's more to it or some kind of message there... I'm putting this book down for good. 90% in. Normally, I would have kept going just to find out what happens to the characters, but honestly I care so litt Brace yourself for the most melodramatic, pretentious, dull, dumb, overwritten, repetitive, laughable, cringe-inducing, self-indulgent, unbelievable, stereotypical, voyeuristic, contrived piece of fiction. After pushing through and trying to motivate myself to finish this book just to see if there's more to it or some kind of message there... I'm putting this book down for good. 90% in. Normally, I would have kept going just to find out what happens to the characters, but honestly I care so little about any of them, they can all die or live, they just remain empty caricatures to me and I have better things to read. At least it was so over the top it gave me a good laugh every now and then. ...more Note: I received an ebook copy of this book from the publisher for review consideration. Around page 150 of Hanya Yanagihara\u2019s second novel, A Little Life, which follows four friends from their college years into their fifties, I wrote the following in my notes: I am more excited about Hanya Yanagihara and her work and her career than I have been about any author in a really long time. Around page 200 I wrote this: Is Jude\u2019s suffering perhaps a tad overwrought? It is starting to seem like everything Note: I received an ebook copy of this book from the publisher for review consideration. Around page 150 of Hanya Yanagihara\u2019s second novel, A Little Life, which follows four friends from their college years into their fifties, I wrote the following in my notes: I am more excited about Hanya Yanagihara and her work and her career than I have been about any author in a really long time. Around page 200 I wrote this: Is Jude\u2019s suffering perhaps a tad overwrought? It is starting to seem like everything bad happens to him forever. Maybe we should spend some time with one of the other characters. Page 200 Jenny was right, and Page 150 Jenny was \u2014 well, hope springs eternal, and maybe Yanagihara\u2019s third book will be back up to the standard of The People in the Trees. But as for A Little Life, describing Jude\u2019s suffering as \u201ca tad overwrought\u201d is like describing Dolores Umbridge as \u201ca tad unpleasant.\u201d Yanagihara employs a plot strategy of which I was very fond when I was eleven, which was to think of as many dreadful fates as I could and heap them upon my protagonist one after another. Then when I ran out of ideas, I killed the protagonist off and wrote heartrending scenes of her friends-and-relations mourning her wretched life and too-early passing. I did this because I was eleven. I am not sure what Yanagihara\u2019s problem is. We learn early on that Jude is physically frail, due to an unspecified injury in his past, and that his family isn\u2019t in the picture. Over the course of seven hundred pages, Yanagihara unfolds a cartoonishly woeful backstory to explain all of this. When you first start to recognize the way Jude\u2019s abusive past is tearing him apart in the present, it\u2019s heartbreaking. After two or three wicked villains have gotten through abusing him just because they\u2019re evil, you start worrying that if the author doesn\u2019t right the ship, you\u2019re going to find yourself in the unenviable position of describing a depiction of child sex abuse as silly in your eventual review. The maddening waste is that Yanagihara\u2019s writing is elegant and evocative, and she\u2019s able \u2014 at times \u2014 to capture with precision and delicacy the true, messy emotions between her characters. And the kind of story that she\u2019s (I think) trying to tell is a kind of story I want to see more of. I want a story that doesn\u2019t pretend there\u2019s a straight path out of trauma into healing that you travel once and then you reach the end and you and your trauma have no further business to transact. I want a story that places serious value on relationships other than romantic ones. I want a story about loving someone who cannot always see his way clear to continuing to live in this world. Ideally, of course, these stories would reach me unencumbered by several metric tons of lunatic melodrama, and I would not have to use the word dreck in reference to an author I admire. But in this I am evidently destined for disappointment. ...more Jesus Christ. I cried for an HOUR last night. This freaking book. A Little Life is a powerful, disturbing novel. It's full of pain, desperation, and a sense of isolating sadness that sucks the reader into some very dark places. It's also the best book I've read in years. Reading the blurb, you'll get the idea that this work is about 4 college friends and their lives, but that's not entirely true. While each of the 4 main characters, and in fact all the characters in the book, are fully realized with extraordinary character development, the book is really about A Little Life is a powerful, disturbing novel. It's full of pain, desperation, and a sense of isolating sadness that sucks the reader into some very dark places. It's also the best book I've read in years. Reading the blurb, you'll get the idea that this work is about 4 college friends and their lives, but that's not entirely true. While each of the 4 main characters, and in fact all the characters in the book, are fully realized with extraordinary character development, the book is really about just one man, Jude St. Francis. Jude is a truly broken person; he's been broken by a childhood that is both a series of horrors that are difficult to read about and a testament to what a human being can endure. Jude doesn't come out of his childhood whole and I feel a little broken by having read about his life. I also feel that strange happiness that comes from being emotionally purged in the way that only great books can accomplish. As Alona mentioned in her review , this is not a romance, but it is a love story. It's a love story about friendship that tries to overcome pain, and the bravery and sacrifice that true friendship and love sometimes require. The romance in this book is a beautiful one, but not in the traditional sense that a reader might expect or want for the characters involved. We all often say that we loved this character or that character in one of the many books that we read, I know I say it often, but the character of Jude St. Francis is something special. I loved Jude more than I've loved any character before; that's probably why he was capable of so thoroughly breaking my heart. I wanted so much for him, I wanted him to be so much and get so much in life. He didn't get all that I wanted for him, but in the end, I was satisfied with where he ended up and it seemed fitting and very real. I hate the term \"triggers\", but it's appropriate here. I have a few triggers of my own and they were part of this book, but I felt the writing here just brought me into those places that I don't like to go and left me, not upset or feeling traumatized, but more appreciative of my own ability to survive and thrive. I wanted to reach into the book and take Jude's hand and tell him we'd get through it together. This book is definitely not for everyone, but if you're up to it, you'll be thrilled by the writing. There's pain here, and beauty along with it. Big thanks to Alona for the many messages we exchanged while reading this. It sounds silly, but I feel as if the two of us have survived something together. ...more Fuck this book. And it started out so well! The writing is actually gorgeous. I can see why many, many people like this book. Really, Hanya Yanagihara knows how to use language. Unfortunately, the story she told was not worthy of it. The longer I read this book, the more I dreaded reading it, the worse my feelings got as I read, and the more I hated it for existing. Then I read a bunch of interviews by her and hated the book even more. The long and short of it is that this book is nothing but mise Fuck this book. And it started out so well! The writing is actually gorgeous. I can see why many, many people like this book. Really, Hanya Yanagihara knows how to use language. Unfortunately, the story she told was not worthy of it. The longer I read this book, the more I dreaded reading it, the worse my feelings got as I read, and the more I hated it for existing. Then I read a bunch of interviews by her and hated the book even more. The long and short of it is that this book is nothing but misery porn, on purpose. ( Here's a Vulture interview where she talks about the inspiration for writing the book to create a book version of ombr\u00e9 cloth, which if you're not familiar, by the time you get to the end is pitch black. Yeah, let's make art that will stain our souls!!!!!) This book. Nothing in life is positive, there is only human suffering, true connection is impossible, predators will always find and ruin truly good people, everything is evil, the people who love you are not enough to save you, and your happiness will turn to ashes in your mouth. The End. Fuck. This. Book. There is a lot more that I could say about this book but I don't think I have enough time or space. Other people have criticized more articulately the implications of the way Yanagihara treats her gay characters, who exist seemingly only to suffer (while paradoxically others have praised it as the great gay novel ). She also stated in several other interviews her desire to write a character so broken he couldn't be fixed, which she accomplishes in her protagonist Jude. Some have called this a melodrama, and that seems accurate. Everything is over the top, but stated in such bald and beautiful prose that it doesn't feel that way at the time. Instead, these larger than life events are made to seem trite and commonplace. Yes, there are bad priests in the Catholic church. Yes, the church covered this up. Do I think it's likely that an entire abbey full of Franciscans (the most peaceable and loving sect in Catholicism) would not only participate in child molestation, but condone it almost openly? Hell no. The real deal breaker for me was when I paused midway through the novel to read an interview where Yanagihara stated her criticism of psychiatry as a way to treat mental illness. The implication that some people are too broken to help and we should just let them die is so, so harmful, and in no way does it help to eradicate the stigma against mental illness in this country. We should not be telling \"broken\" people it's okay to die. We should be telling them they are not alone in their suffering, and help them find ways to cope with their illnesses and traumas. I will admit I checked out of the book then, and it was only a matter of time before I gave up and spoiled myself on the rest of it, so I wouldn't have to torture myself mentally any further. Glad I did, because the end of this book is a big rusty nail up the butt. This one from the London Review of Books is my favorite review of the book I've read so far . Let me quote my favorite part: \"He wishes he too could forget, that he too could choose never to consider Caleb again. Always, he wonders why and how he has let four months \u2013 four months increasingly distant from him \u2013 so affect him, so alter his life. But then, he might as well ask \u2013 as he often does \u2013 why he has let the first 15 years of his life so dictate the past 28.\" The answer, of course, is that it\u2019s Yanagihara\u2019s design. That\u2019s why it\u2019s good to know that Jude is entirely her concoction, not a figure based on testimony by survivors of child rape, clinical case studies or anything empirical. I found Jude an infuriating object of attention, but resisted blaming the victim. I blame the author. A Little Life has received some ecstatic reviews. The most intriguing of these is the novelist Garth Greenwell\u2019s in the Atlantic, which argues that it\u2019s the long-awaited \u2018great gay novel\u2019: \u2018It engages with aesthetic modes long coded as queer: melodrama, sentimental fiction, grand opera,\u2019 he writes. \u2018By violating the canons of current literary taste, by embracing melodrama and exaggeration and sentiment, it can access emotional truths denied more modest means of expression.\u2019 Perhaps I\u2019m in thrall to current literary taste, but the only character in A Little Life who seems possessed of anything like \u2018emotional truths\u2019 or a sense of irony, the only supporting player in this elaborately ethnically diverse cast who doesn\u2019t seem like a stereotypical middle-class striver plucked out of 1950s cinema, is JB. He\u2019s temporarily ushered out of the narrative after he says to Jude: \u2018You like always being the person who gets to learn everyone else\u2019s secrets, without ever telling us a single fucking thing? \u2026 Well, it doesn\u2019t fucking work like that, and we\u2019re all fucking sick of you.\u2019 JB\u2019s also the one hooked on crystal meth. What real person trapped in this novel wouldn\u2019t become a drug addict? I think what makes the most angry about this book is that I do see flashes of brilliance in it. Images I loved, earned emotions. Early on in the novel, one character muses about being a guest in his own life. Another talks about photography in terms that made me stop in my tracks and pause the audiobook just so I think about what she'd written. Later, the relationship between Jude and his adoptive father and the love his adoptive father has for him made me cry. But all of that doesn't matter, when the end result is what we're given. What it comes down to the fact that pain was the only point, and I think that is reprehensible. ...more Heed my warning: do not pick this book up if you're having a bad day! On the other hand, if you're in a good space and fancy something challenging and absorbing that might take over your life for a while (it's over 700 pages long) - this is the one. There are many excellent reviews out there should you wish to delve into the micro details of the plot. But it's not my style to give so much away so I'll limit myself to a few lines on this. Ostensibly it's the tale of four students (Jude, Willem, M Heed my warning: do not pick this book up if you're having a bad day! On the other hand, if you're in a good space and fancy something challenging and absorbing that might take over your life for a while (it's over 700 pages long) - this is the one. There are many excellent reviews out there should you wish to delve into the micro details of the plot. But it's not my style to give so much away so I'll limit myself to a few lines on this. Ostensibly it's the tale of four students (Jude, Willem, Malcolm and JB) who live and study together and it tracks how their lives develop from this point. Of course it draws in additional characters, many of whom continue to feature throughout the book, and it eventually settles into a narrative about the life of Jude, specifically, with the others becoming support characters. Jude, it transpires, had a profoundly disturbing childhood and his full history is told in segments spread throughout the book. The flashback sections read like a gothic horror story and it's no overstatement to say that I had to put the book down on numerous occasions, overcome by the sheer brutality of the text. So this is one element of the book: how does someone like Jude, who has experienced such an upbringing, integrate themself into the wider world? Can he succeed and prosper or will he be overcome by nightmares of the past and subsequently crash and burn? A second, and for me more prominent, theme of the book is related to adult friendship and love. In fact I'd go as far as to say it could be considered a friendship bible and you may find yourself weighing your own actions against those detailed herein \u2013 I for one found myself hugely wanting in this regard.( I give myself three out of ten.) It really did make me think about how I \u2018manage\u2019 (or fail to) my relationships, the little things and the bigger things. There are some wonderful sections on this: The only trick of friendship, I think, is to find people better than you are \u2013 not smarter, not cooler, but kinder and more generous, and more forgiving \u2013 and then appreciate them for what they can teach you, and try to listen to them when they tell you something about yourself, no matter how bad \u2013 or good - it might be, and then to trust them, which is the hardest of all. But the best, as well. It was like any relationship, he felt \u2013 it took constant pruning, and dedication and vigilance, and if neither party wanted to make the effort, why wouldn't it wither? Wasn't friendship it's own miracle, the finding of another person who made the entire lonely world seem a little less lonely? There\u2019s also a brilliant piece about finding a partner, with a theory espoused that you should identify three qualities from a wish list that are most important to you. If these are fulfilled by the prospective partner to be then you've struck gold! It\u2019s too much to ask for any more than the three qualities to be ticked off, so you shouldn't demand it or expect it. I found myself trying to work out which I'd choose and which I'd discard. And how would I prioritise those I'd chosen for my shortlist? Too cold to be truly effective? Maybe\u2026 If I have one quibble it would relate to how forgiving and how persistent Jude\u2019s friends are. Are they too good to be true? In aggregate, do Jude's actions feel deserving of such treatment? I'm not sure. But that's small beer when I consider the wealth of emotions I experienced in reading this book; the pure reward of reading probably one of the top five books I've ever read. I won't say I'd read it again - it's just too draining \u2013 but I would urge all lovers of the written word to find time for this one. ...more I read because I want a story to take me somewhere to experience a place I don't know . Not necessarily another city or country or continent a but a place in my heart and soul that I didn't know was there. This is where A Little Life took me . It consumed me for these last few days as I read late at night and then woke up thinking about Jude St. Francis . The book description will tell you that this is about the decades long friendships of four men who meet in college , about the careers they ch I read because I want a story to take me somewhere to experience a place I don't know . Not necessarily another city or country or continent a but a place in my heart and soul that I didn't know was there. This is where A Little Life took me . It consumed me for these last few days as I read late at night and then woke up thinking about Jude St. Francis . The book description will tell you that this is about the decades long friendships of four men who meet in college , about the careers they choose and the people they become , the lives they choose to lead. But it is mostly about the traumas of one man's childhood and how his capacity to live and love and be loved is altered for the rest of his life . This is one of those books where the narrative is so painful at times that I had to stop for a while , but I had to hurry up and start again because I couldn't stand not knowing what was going to happen . The writing is incredible . The depth of this author's perception about her characters and how she skillfully bares their souls , especially Jude is so far beyond the ordinary. The telling was so powerful and so painful and so unbearably sad yet somehow the emotional exhaustion was worth it . Hanna Yanagihara's characters show us that to be human is our connections with each other - mothers , fathers , brothers , friends , people who care about each other. I will be surprised if this isn't my favorite of the year . I know this is only March but books like this don't come along very often . I was asked where that place was that this book took me so I am adding this . (view spoiler) [We probably all know what it's like to suffer - maybe physically , or at the loss of loved ones or a myriad of other things that could affect our lives . But the main character who is left at birth suffers unspeakable abuses - physical, sexual and deeply emotional abuses at the hands of some depraved individuals from the time he is a young boy to his teenage years . This is suffering that I can only imagine and I am amazed how the author conveyed this suffering and made me feel some of this by suffering along with Jude . I've suffered physically at times and certainly emotionally at times but anything I knew of this pales in comparison to what this character goes through. This is that place that this book took me. (hide spoiler) ] Thanks to Doubleday and NetGalley . ...more Such an incredibly hard book to read, and yet a beautiful book too, on the true meaning of friendship. Written so tenderly, poignantly and with raw honesty. The characters run the gamut from those among us who are the most cruel, the most hateful and those who are able to offer a love that is profound, unconditional and where many of us probably fall, wanting to be better than we are. The characters are human, flawed, some almost too good to be true, and yet it is the moments we don't see, that w Such an incredibly hard book to read, and yet a beautiful book too, on the true meaning of friendship. Written so tenderly, poignantly and with raw honesty. The characters run the gamut from those among us who are the most cruel, the most hateful and those who are able to offer a love that is profound, unconditional and where many of us probably fall, wanting to be better than we are. The characters are human, flawed, some almost too good to be true, and yet it is the moments we don't see, that we hear about that defines this book, in the thoughts of the characters, the empty spaces. How does one forgive one's own past, a place and upbringing that was not ones choice? Why do we hang on to a place, a state of mind, that causes us nothing but pain? The writing is exemplary, the abuse scenes can be graphic, but offset by friendships that are amazing, love that is wonderful. I have read so many articles where critics and readers both decry, \"Where are the published books that will later be considered a classic?\" I think this one will, one of the best, most sincere, if painful books, I have read in a long time. ...more I was hesitant at first with picking this up because I thought A Little Life revolved around four white dudes and their #whitepeopleproblems. But oh, was I incredibly mistaken. The cast of characters in this one is far from what I thought; it tackles a variety of topics such as sexuality, race, disabilities, mental illness, and so much more. Not what I expected and for once, I was glad to be so off-track. If you're looking to diversify your reading (as you should!!), this book has it all: \u2022 POC cha I was hesitant at first with picking this up because I thought A Little Life revolved around four white dudes and their #whitepeopleproblems. But oh, was I incredibly mistaken. The cast of characters in this one is far from what I thought; it tackles a variety of topics such as sexuality, race, disabilities, mental illness, and so much more. Not what I expected and for once, I was glad to be so off-track. If you're looking to diversify your reading (as you should!!), this book has it all: \u2022 POC characters. \u2022 Multiple LGBTQ+ ships. \u2022 Disabled main character. \u2022 Honest look on mental health and mental illnesses. This review contains *spoilers* . Source This profound, tragic, memorable book centered around four college roommates from a small Massachusetts college moving to New York to make their way, is more complex than meets the eye. First and foremost, Yanagihara is a storyteller and her detailed and complex characters drive her work. There is kind, handsome Willem, an aspiring actor; JB, a quick-witted, sometimes cruel Brooklyn-born painter seeking entry to the art world; Malcolm, a frustrated architect at a prominent firm; and withdrawn, brilliant, enigmatic Jude, who serves as their center of gravity. Let's take a minute to start from the beginning and really understand each member that creates this dynamic foursome: Jude St. Francis (aka the one who deserves the whole wide world and more): We get to know Jude slowly but surely, and the one thing I remember most was how I truly enjoyed the specificity and depth of his character. He made me see the world anew and think differently as well. Also, I keep going back in my mind to his first and only social worker, \u201cand the first person who had never betrayed him,\u201d and every time I just end up in tears. \u201cI don\u2019t see why I have to talk about it at all,\u201d he muttered at her once. He knew she had read his records from Montana; he knew she knew what he was. She was quiet. \u201cOne thing I\u2019ve learned,\u201d she said, \u201cyou have to talk about these things while they\u2019re fresh. Or you\u2019ll never talk about them. I\u2019m going to teach you how to talk about them, because it\u2019s going to get harder and harder the longer you wait, and it\u2019s going to fester inside you, and you\u2019re always going to think you\u2019re to blame. You\u2019ll be wrong, of course, but you\u2019ll always think it.\u201d She was Jude's rock, and seeing her slowly disappear made my everything hurt. Ana was good people, the best. \u201cYou\u2019re going to be great at college,\u201d she said. She shut her eyes. \u201cThe other kids are going to ask you about how you grew up, have you thought about that?\u201d \u201cSort of,\u201d he said. It was all he thought about. \u201cMmph,\u201d she grunted. She didn\u2019t believe him either. \u201cWhat are you going to tell them?\u201d And then she opened her eyes and looked at him. \u201cI don\u2019t know,\u201d he admitted. \u201cAh, yes,\u201d she said. They were quiet. \u201cJude,\u201d she began, and then stopped. \u201cYou\u2019ll find your own way to discuss what happened to you. You\u2019ll have to, if you ever want to be close to anyone. But your life\u2014no matter what you think, you have nothing to be ashamed of, and none of it has been your fault. Will you remember that?\u201d It was the closest they had ever gotten to discussing not only the previous year but the years that preceded it, too. \u201cYes,\u201d he told her. She glared at him. \u201cPromise me.\u201d \u201cI promise.\u201d But even then, he couldn\u2019t believe her. She sighed. \u201cI should\u2019ve made you talk more,\u201d she said. It was the last thing she ever said to him. Two weeks later\u2014July third\u2014she was dead.\u201d I had to stop myself from crying then. Her death was all I thought about in the days following. It impacted more than I anticipated, which just goes to show how every single character in A Little Life was extremely well developed. Even when we only have a glimpse of them on the page. Also, this: \u201cYou won\u2019t understand what I mean now, but someday you will: the only trick of friendship, I think, is to find people who are better than you are\u2014not smarter, not cooler, but kinder, and more generous, and more forgiving\u2014and then to appreciate them for what they can teach you, and to try to listen to them when they tell you something about yourself, no matter how bad\u2014or good\u2014it might be, and to trust them, which is the hardest thing of all. But the best, as well.\u201d Willem Ragnarsson aka the best friend you'll ever have: Oh man, the love I have for this one is hard to capture in words. Willem was what made this novel start off so promising for me. The love and patience he has for his friends, especially for Jude, was truly inspiring. And their connection in their twenties was on a whole other level. \u201cWhy wasn\u2019t friendship as good as a relationship? Why wasn\u2019t it even better? It was two people who remained together, day after day, bound not by sex or physical attraction or money or children or property, but only by the shared agreement to keep going, the mutual dedication to a union that could never be codified.\u201d I wanted Willem, who was humble, hardworking and diligent, to have everything he deserved, everything he desired. He was my favorite. Also, this: \u201cSometimes he wakes so far from himself that he can\u2019t even remember who he is. \u201cWhere am I?\u201d he asks, desperate, and then, \u201cWho am I? Who am I?\u201d And then he hears, so close to his ear that it is as if the voice is originating inside his own head, Willem\u2019s whispered incantation. \u201cYou\u2019re Jude St. Francis. You are my oldest, dearest friend. You\u2019re the son of Harold Stein and Julia Altman. You\u2019re the friend of Malcolm Irvine, of Jean-Baptiste Marion, of Richard Goldfarb, of Andy Contractor, of Lucien Voigt, of Citizen van Straaten, of Rhodes Arrowsmith, of Elijah Kozma, of Phaedra de los Santos, of the Henry Youngs. \u201cYou\u2019re a New Yorker. You live in SoHo. You volunteer for an arts organization; you volunteer for a food kitchen. \u201cYou\u2019re a swimmer. You\u2019re a baker. You\u2019re a cook. You\u2019re a reader. You have a beautiful voice, though you never sing anymore. You\u2019re an excellent pianist. You\u2019re an art collector. You write me lovely messages when I\u2019m away. You\u2019re patient. You\u2019re generous. You\u2019re the best listener I know. You\u2019re the smartest person I know, in every way. You\u2019re the bravest person I know, in every way. \u201cYou\u2019re a lawyer. You\u2019re the chair of the litigation department at Rosen Pritchard and Klein. You love your job; you work hard at it. \u201cYou\u2019re a mathematician. You\u2019re a logician. You\u2019ve tried to teach me, again and again. \u201cYou were treated horribly. You came out on the other end. You were always you.\u201d In the end, all I can say is I LOVED HIM SO FUCKING MUCH. Malcolm Irvine the \u201cnoncommittal\u201d and conventional one: We got to know so little about Malcolm that at first all I associated with him was his money and work. I did, however, love how he slowly but surely found his passion and ambition while renovating each and every one of his friends' houses. You could feel his devotion and dedication pouring off the page. Jean-Baptiste \u201cJB\u201d Marion the self-involved one: I don't even know where to start with JB because he had a lot going on that ended up affecting all of them. But I do want to focus on one major event that destroyed what had been more than twenty years of friendship when he decided hurt Jude in the most traumatising way by \u201cimpersonating\u201d him. And I was gobsmacked even more when we got to see the aftermath it left on both sides. I always loved seeing the four of them together. They truly had something special. And I still can't forgive him for ruining it like that; for hurting Jude like that. \u201cWhy did you do that, JB? Why did you do that to him, of all people?\u201d And then, suddenly, things began to turn a bit sour for me... There's just such a thing as too much tragedy in novels, and I'm not sure the author got that. At a certain point when truly atrocious things were happening time after time after time, I was left feeling numb. I mean: \u2022 Jude has a profoundly disturbing (disturbing doesn't even begin to describe it) childhood from literally day one. \u2022 Jude gets abused, sold into prostitution, kidnapped, run over by a car\u2014and all before the age of fifteen. \u2022 Jude began a relationship that quickly turned out to be abusive and deadly, and it had its long-term reverberations. \u2022 Jude loses the people important to him the instant they truly connect. MULTIPLE TIMES . \u2022 Jude has to get his legs amputated. \u2022 Jude tries to end his life. MULTIPLE TIMES . \u2022 The more the novel progressed, the worse things were getting in Jude's life. Willem the Hero/ Ragnarsson the Terrible perfectly describes how it felt hearing about all the horrors Jude went through: \u201cHe felt that he had in some ways learned more about Jude in the past year than he had in the past twenty-six, and each new thing he learned was awful: Jude\u2019s stories were the kinds of stories that he was unequipped to answer, because so many of them were unanswerable. The story of the scar on the back of his hand\u2014that had been the one that had begun it\u2014had been so terrible that Willem had stayed up that night, unable to sleep, and had seriously contemplated calling Harold, just to be able to have someone else share the story with him, to be speechless alongside him.\u201d The more I read, the more I understood that there was no mercy, particularly for Jude. He went through so much intense shit, and it got to a point where it was physically painful to read. Some stories were so terrible that it had left me with a full night of contemplation. Where were the silver linings? I talked it over with my mother and the more I discussed it, the more I realized how livid I was at the manipulativeness I felt in the writing. I mean, Willem got into a fucking car accident by the last hundred pages or so and I felt NOTHING. That's how messed up I found this book. My favorite characters dies and I feel nothing. And I quickly realized that it wasn't me, it was the book. At a certain point after you read about only pain, pain and pain, you end up feeling nothing at all. It was just too much for me. Don't get me wrong, A Little Life was a good book, but by the end, I was more than ready to leave. So I'm not sure whether I loved this book as much as I did in the first part (because it had some lightness in it) or if I'm tremendously disappointed as I felt in the last part (because it had so much darkness in it). A Little Life has been pretty well talked up so my expectations were clearly high. But still, it...it did disappoint a bit. *Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying A Little Life , just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!* This review and more can be found on my blog. ...more Is there life after A Little Life? Finished this book seconds ago and I'm not sure I'll ever be able to adequately describe how I feel about it. 8/12/15 Edited to add my longer review: Let me just begin by saying that I absolutely loved this book and there\u2019s no way this little review of mine will do it justice. I\u2019m going to attempt to explain how I feel about this book anyway. I will admit that right now it\u2019s too precious to me and I cannot highlight any flaws, but what review is objective? A Litt Is there life after A Little Life? Finished this book seconds ago and I'm not sure I'll ever be able to adequately describe how I feel about it. 8/12/15 Edited to add my longer review: Let me just begin by saying that I absolutely loved this book and there\u2019s no way this little review of mine will do it justice. I\u2019m going to attempt to explain how I feel about this book anyway. I will admit that right now it\u2019s too precious to me and I cannot highlight any flaws, but what review is objective? A Little Life is the story of four friends: Jude, the intelligent lawyer with a past that constantly threatens his present; Willem, an aspiring actor with a kindness that knows no bounds; Malcolm, who builds tiny houses and likes the control and creativity that architecture requires; and finally JB, the artist with a personality that dominates any room. The book generally takes place in New York City. When it begins, our main characters have recently graduated college and are struggling to make their way in the world. For the rest of the novel we follow their lives over the next 30+ years. We observe friendships strengthen and weaken, romantic relationships begin and end, and the trajectory of their professional careers. This book is about their lives and as you read it, you feel like you\u2019re experiencing your own little life. It\u2019s been nearly a week since I finished this book and I still feel so close to it and to the characters. I cannot remember the last time a book had such a huge emotional impact on me. The characters are masterfully written and completely engrossing. I truly felt like these characters were living, breathing people (and even at this moment, I almost think that they\u2019re somewhere out there in the city now, walking around and living their lives). I felt like they were my friends. I was so completely and totally invested in their lives that every triumph and tragedy in this book hit me hard. I thought that Yanagihara\u2019s writing was simple and elegant and that the entire story was utterly powerful. She has a skill for putting things plainly and perfectly, so that a mere sentence can feel like a sucker punch to the gut. Also, I must mention that this book deals with very difficult subjects, including emotional, physical, and sexual abuse. Some incidents are described in more detail than others, but if any of those topics are triggers for you, then this may not be the book for you. This book is about what it means to be human and about the evolution of friendships and relationships It\u2019s also about what it means to belong, and how we find our place in the world. It asks, \u201cWhat is a life and what makes it worth living?\u201d Throughout the novel, characters are stretched past the limits of what they believe they can endure, and I felt a bit like that as I was reading. By the time I finished, I was physically and mentally spent and I marveled that a book had made me feel that way. I\u2019m sure you\u2019ve heard that this book is overwhelmingly sad, and that\u2019s true, but where there is darkness, there is also light. I\u2019m just in awe of this book. I cried tears of happiness and tears of despair, and on more than one occasion, I cried myself to sleep. I think what Hanya Yanagihara was able to achieve with this book is a testament to literature. This experience reminded me why reading will always be an important and necessary part of my life. ...more It's a difficult novel to summarize the philosophical tone of this novel. It is at the same time wry, realistic, acutely sensitive....(disturbing examination of the lifelong abuse of one of the characters), ......and the type of book you read once in a lifetime. Just as in real life... Friendships build more friends... Expanding the community circle. At the start of friendships (which will span over many years).... Four students: Willem, Jude, Jd, and Malcom share a cinder-blocked common dormitor It's a difficult novel to summarize the philosophical tone of this novel. It is at the same time wry, realistic, acutely sensitive....(disturbing examination of the lifelong abuse of one of the characters), ......and the type of book you read once in a lifetime. Just as in real life... Friendships build more friends... Expanding the community circle. At the start of friendships (which will span over many years).... Four students: Willem, Jude, Jd, and Malcom share a cinder-blocked common dormitory. We continue to meet real people... friends of friends of friends.... always with a strong focus of these 4 friends. (The Core Group). Two other outstanding characters outside the 'core' are Harold, and Andy. Even the minor characters are not forgotten: Eriza, Julia, Black Henry Young, Asian Henry Young, Richard, Mr. Irvine, Flora, Phaedra, Citizen, Lucien, Rosen Pritchard, Sophie, India, etc etc. How do these friends help each other? What do they each bring to the group? Why are they destined for friendship? How do they react when tragedy faces them? \"When they were young, they had only their secrets to give one another: confessions were currency, and divulgences were a form of intimacy. Withholding the details from your friends, considered first a sort of mystery, and then a kind of stinginess, one that it was understood would preclude true friendship\". I found myself unable to tear myself away from this novel during the final scenes. I'm left with two word: LITERARY GENIUS!!!!! ...more I'm not quite sure what to say about this book, which is both compulsively readable and so overwrought that when I described the plot to my twenty-something niece during a walk she laughed so hard she almost fell off the sidewalk. The central character, Jude St. Francis (that's where she started laughing) is the victim of a childhood of horrible abuse, so over-the-top horrible it makes Oliver Twist seem like a Bobbsey Twin. (\"OK, and after the priest got done prostituting him he gets taken in by I'm not quite sure what to say about this book, which is both compulsively readable and so overwrought that when I described the plot to my twenty-something niece during a walk she laughed so hard she almost fell off the sidewalk. The central character, Jude St. Francis (that's where she started laughing) is the victim of a childhood of horrible abuse, so over-the-top horrible it makes Oliver Twist seem like a Bobbsey Twin. (\"OK, and after the priest got done prostituting him he gets taken in by a doctor. A pedophile doctor.\" \"WHAT?\") Instead of turning out violent or homeless or at the very least socially inept, Jude becomes a successful corporate lawyer who speaks many languages, plays the piano brilliantly, and treats friends and strangers with gentleness and decency. He deals with his trauma by injuring himself, which is the one realistic aspect of this book, where totally straight men happily turn gay to care for their best friend (Jude) , a doctor cuts vacations and surgeries short to care for his beloved favorite patient (Jude), a rich couple adopts a thirty-year-old man (Hey! Jude), a famous artist builds an entire career painting pictures of -- well, guess who. And I really got the sense that the author was getting off on her endless and loving descriptions of Jude's cutting and burning and suicide attempts. It reminded me of those web pages where anorexics trade barfing tips. But I'm giving it three stars because I read all 700 pages in three days. ...more Al final, solo hay dos maneras de escribir un libro: orientado a la historia u orientado a los personajes. Por supuesto que puede haber novelas con un buen balance, sin embargo, en cuesti\u00f3n de importancia, me inclino siempre por los personajes. Un libro con una excelente historia pero absurdos personajes es un libro superficial, fr\u00e1gil, que puede resquebrajarse en cualquier momento. En cambio, un libro con personajes profundos, complejos y que respiran en cada p\u00e1gina hacen la mejor de las histor Al final, solo hay dos maneras de escribir un libro: orientado a la historia u orientado a los personajes. Por supuesto que puede haber novelas con un buen balance, sin embargo, en cuesti\u00f3n de importancia, me inclino siempre por los personajes. Un libro con una excelente historia pero absurdos personajes es un libro superficial, fr\u00e1gil, que puede resquebrajarse en cualquier momento. En cambio, un libro con personajes profundos, complejos y que respiran en cada p\u00e1gina hacen la mejor de las historias. Es esencial entender que una historia la crean sus personajes, no al rev\u00e9s. Con protagonistas atractivos, reales, es seguro que un lector se sentir\u00e1 a gusto hasta leyendo sus actividades m\u00e1s anodinas, solo porque ellos las est\u00e1n haciendo. A Little Life es lo que es merced a sus personajes. No hay mucho m\u00e1s que eso. Y, por mi parte, tampoco querr\u00eda m\u00e1s. Cuando un escritor es capaz de crear personajes tan v\u00edvidos que los sent\u00eds a tu alrededor, esperando que te quiebres con ellos, que intentes abrazarlos y no puedas, que llores y no te consuelen, que r\u00edas y te sorprendas por ello hasta el punto de no entender la sonrisa, que sientas la esperanza y tengas miedo de que est\u00e9 all\u00ed, como la amenaza de una nueva ca\u00edda, que te obliguen a desear lo no querido y a reprobar lo que deber\u00eda estar bien; cuando un escritor es capaz de eso, no te queda otra opci\u00f3n que dejarte fracturar y rendirte. No hay alternativa, no existe elecci\u00f3n. Solo queda descubrir el alma y suplicar por piedad. La depresi\u00f3n es un tema delicado y generalmente mal tratado. Muchas veces se usa para que adolescentes con problemas amorosos o de baja autoestima se sientan identificados y puedan publicar frases rimbombantes en todas sus redes sociales. Eso no es necesariamente malo. En parte, para eso existe la ficci\u00f3n. No obstante, por esa raz\u00f3n la depresi\u00f3n pas\u00f3 a ser un asunto circunscrito solo a temas superficiales que se acrecientan por el ego. Hanya Yanagihara logr\u00f3 lo que pocos autores lograron (se me viene a la cabeza, como no pod\u00eda ser de otra manera, Foster Wallace, con su relato \"La persona deprimida\" o los di\u00e1logos de Kate Gompert, en La broma infinita ): retratar la depresi\u00f3n como lo que es: una enfermedad narcisista, que inspira por su car\u00e1cter al autoaborrecimiento y al castigo, a una inseguridad extrema y a una imposibilidad de mejorar. El tratamiento de este padecimiento es un punto muy fuerte de este libro. He le\u00eddo algunas rese\u00f1as de gente que no entendi\u00f3 a Jude y que incluso lo detest\u00f3 por c\u00f3mo era. Ese es su efecto. Por eso es una enfermedad tan despreciable. Pero lo que hace A Little Life una obra a\u00fan m\u00e1s alucinante es que no se limita a seguir al deprimido (interpretado por el susodicho Jude), sino asimismo a los que lo rodean. Jude no es el \u00fanico que sufre, no es la \u00fanica v\u00edctima de su dolor. As\u00ed, vemos cu\u00e1n duro es contemplar a quien se ama desmoronarse sin poder hacer nada para evitarlo, sin importar lo mucho que se intente y lo mucho que se desee que todo sea como deber\u00eda ser. Personajes tan encantadores como Harold, JB o Willem son algunos de los que van a ilustrar el rol del espectador. Respiran y observan sin saber de qu\u00e9 forma actuar, con temor y silencio. No me quedan dudas de que A Little Life es el libro m\u00e1s humano que he le\u00eddo en mi vida. Todo lo que sucede en la historia pasa por el sentimiento, todo lo que ocurre, ya sea malo o bueno, pasa por lo que nos hace humanos. Esta obra no es optimista, pero tampoco es pesimista. Es triste, desgarradora, aun as\u00ed, no carece de esperanza y de expresiones intensas de bondad, tan intensas que emocionan m\u00e1s que la pena. Es por eso que no puedo etiquetarla con una palabra, puesto que supera lo simple y se construye a partir de lo inefable. Sin embargo, no todo es veneraci\u00f3n. En diversas partes A Little Life falla. Es bastante melodr\u00e1matico. Tiene especialmente una escena que, en mi opini\u00f3n, no deber\u00eda haber ocurrido (una escena muy importante, de hecho), y tiene una ligera presuntuosidad, la suficiente para hacerme poner los ojos en blanco. En fin. A pesar de todo lo negativo, es una de las mejores novelas que he le\u00eddo. A Little Life nos vuelve susceptibles y nos quita lo poco que cre\u00edamos seguro. No esperen una lectura fr\u00eda. Cuando lo lean van a ser heridos, golpeados, burlados, van implorar por que se detenga pero seguir\u00e1n leyendo. Van a sentir. Simplemente eso. ...more \"A Little Life\" is one of the best books of the year, if not decade. It will be talked about for generations. What Yanagihara has created is unlike anything I have ever read. This book is Pulitzer material and sure to become a modern classic. \"A Little Life\" is about 4 men who meet at a college in Massachusetts (Jude, Willem, Malcolm and JB) and they stay friends long after college is over. The book spans decades. Without giving away too much, it is truly about the character, Jude St. Francis, an \"A Little Life\" is one of the best books of the year, if not decade. It will be talked about for generations. What Yanagihara has created is unlike anything I have ever read. This book is Pulitzer material and sure to become a modern classic. \"A Little Life\" is about 4 men who meet at a college in Massachusetts (Jude, Willem, Malcolm and JB) and they stay friends long after college is over. The book spans decades. Without giving away too much, it is truly about the character, Jude St. Francis, and what his life was like before he met these 3 friends, and how that life before affects everything and everyone around him. Slowly Jude's story unravels throughout the book. It is so masterfully done that at times I was weeping so hard I had to put the book down. It is about life, love, compassion, and kindness. There are other characters weaved into the story (Andy, Harold, Julia, Richard, etc). I think what makes this book even more impressive and actually takes it to an even higher level of brilliance is that Yanagihara is a woman! She is able to be the mind and soul of a man, Jude! It's unreal how brilliant this author is. I don't want to say much more and spoil this experience. I will say that I was sucked into this book so much so that I felt like I was actually there with these characters. I could feel Jude's pain. It wasn't always pleasant, but it was a cathartic experience. Don't let the 720 pages scare you away. It reads fast and is worth every page! A MUST READ! ...more This is one of those books that leave you speechless and make it hard for you to do a proper review. Yet, I plan on doing two reviews for this book: one here on Goodreads and one on my YouTube channel, simply because this book deserves the attention. What you have to know when going into this story is that you will go on quite an emotional journey. \"A Little Life\" follows Jude and his three friends in New York, and let me just tell you that there is nothing little about his life. This book is no This is one of those books that leave you speechless and make it hard for you to do a proper review. Yet, I plan on doing two reviews for this book: one here on Goodreads and one on my YouTube channel, simply because this book deserves the attention. What you have to know when going into this story is that you will go on quite an emotional journey. \"A Little Life\" follows Jude and his three friends in New York, and let me just tell you that there is nothing little about his life. This book is not for the faint-hearted because it deals with a lot of heavy topics which I don't want to go too much into. I want for you to experience the book for yourselves - just know that you won't be the same person after you finish it. This story teaches you empathy. It puts you into another person's situation and your heart is bleeding. Some chapters were brutal, and while I knew that they would break my heart, I still couldn't put down the book. I wanted to suffer with the characters because I could feel that it changed my perception of the world. I wanted to feel all of the emotions and I wanted to try and place myself in their situation and see the world through their eyes. This is a very powerful piece of work, and I highly recommend it if you're up for it. I will try to go more in depth with my thoughts on it in my video review, but as for now, this is how I feel and what I want to convey. I finished the book 5 minutes ago, and I don't think I've yet grasped that the journey has ended. Maybe it never will end for me, because I know for sure that these characters and this story will be a part of me for a very long time to come. ...more God. This book. How do I write a comprehensive review for this?! I want to scream or sob uncontrollably just to ease the heaviness I feel in my heart right now and that is consuming me. I don't think a book has ever affected me on this level. There's no doubt that this is one of the best books that's ever been written, in my opinion, and that I've also had the pleasure of reading. It was incredibly beautiful and incredibly painful to read. But the journey was more than worthwhile. Essentially, i God. This book. How do I write a comprehensive review for this?! I want to scream or sob uncontrollably just to ease the heaviness I feel in my heart right now and that is consuming me. I don't think a book has ever affected me on this level. There's no doubt that this is one of the best books that's ever been written, in my opinion, and that I've also had the pleasure of reading. It was incredibly beautiful and incredibly painful to read. But the journey was more than worthwhile. Essentially, it deals with 4 characters who have known each other since college and it follows their lives, struggles, successes and failures till their later years. Their is a particular focus on one character that this novel is centered around who spends his life recovering from a traumatic childhood. We get to see how that has affected him growing up and his relationship with the people that are around him. We get their perspective on him as well as their own lives. It's hard to pinpoint what I loved most about this novel. For one, the writing exceptional. It was impeccable, simple, raw. Secondly, I was fully immersed and felt everything the characters were feeling. I was inside their head, or beside them more like, experiencing life with them, growing with them. I already began to form an attachment to the characters within the first 50 pages and that attachment grew deeper as the story progressed because of how complex, vivid and flawed they were. They felt so real to me and were so extremely well fleshed out. Thirdly, the plot was beautifully slow-burning, and by no means was it boring. It completely drew me in, heart and soul. The added POV of the characters brought the story together beautifully. However, trigger warnings need to be mentioned. This might not be a book for everyone, so a bit of research might help, because of the countless amount of times abuse of every kind is mentioned (sexual, psychical, emotional, etc). It was jarring to the point where I had to force myself to put it down, remind myself that it is a work of fiction, even though I wanted to keep on turning those pages and inhale the novel. It was emotionally draining, because of how invested and engrossed I was. If anything, this of course, highlights what an incredible writer and artist Yanagihara truly is. And if you do decide to embark on the journey that this book will take you on, I can guarantee that it'll be one of the most thrilling and best reading experiences you'll have. I loved it like I don't think it's possible to love many novels. I definitely won't recover from this anytime soon and these characters will stay with me for a very long time! ...more The Hook - A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara is a big book, literally, that everyone is talking about. The Line(s) \u2013 \"I admired how she knew, well before I did, that the point of a child is not what you hope he will accomplish in your name but the pleasure that he will bring you, whatever form it comes in, even if it is a form that is barely recognizable as pleasure at all--and, more important, the pleasure you will be privileged to bring him.\" The Sinker \u2013 Sometimes the less said the better. A Li The Hook - A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara is a big book, literally, that everyone is talking about. The Line(s) \u2013 \"I admired how she knew, well before I did, that the point of a child is not what you hope he will accomplish in your name but the pleasure that he will bring you, whatever form it comes in, even if it is a form that is barely recognizable as pleasure at all--and, more important, the pleasure you will be privileged to bring him.\" The Sinker \u2013 Sometimes the less said the better. A Little Life is sometimes ordinary, often extraordinary and always achingly beautiful in its prose. It is not without sorrow, it is about living, it did make me cry. A Little Life touched me deeply, often hard to read but I couldn't put it down nor did I want to let these characters go back to their place in fiction Hanya Yanagihara's author profile is sparse and reveals little. Her writing is not. ...more Every once in a while, I\u2019m fortunate enough to come across a novel whose characters embed themselves into my heart so that when their heart\u2019s break, mine does; when their heart\u2019s sore, mine follows. \u201cA Little Life\u201d is one such novel and is anything but little. It is a momentous story about 4 college friends who go on to graduate and become what we would think of as successful adults. The story centres on Jude St. Francis. A man so tormented by his past he is unable to divulge his violent and sha Every once in a while, I\u2019m fortunate enough to come across a novel whose characters embed themselves into my heart so that when their heart\u2019s break, mine does; when their heart\u2019s sore, mine follows. \u201cA Little Life\u201d is one such novel and is anything but little. It is a momentous story about 4 college friends who go on to graduate and become what we would think of as successful adults. The story centres on Jude St. Francis. A man so tormented by his past he is unable to divulge his violent and shameful history to his friends for fear of losing them. And so he suffers for much of the story in silence and through flashbacks we are given glimpses into his horrific earlier years. Yanagihara is magnificent as she transports the reader through beauty and brutality; often leading us down dark and evil paths while gently lolling us back to what is good; what is hopeful; what can be, even after what has been. This narrative will make you feel uncomfortable - it will get under your skin and leave you with a perspective of humanity that is shocking and terribly sad and sometimes even those who love us unconditionally, cannot save us. 5 \u2605 ...more Hey Jude, don\u2019t make it bad / Take a sad song and make it better * Jude St. Francis: Dickensian orphan, patron saint of lost causes, Christlike Man of Sorrows, and one of the most memorable characters in recent fiction. His body is riddled with disease and cross-hatched with scars from years of physical and sexual abuse as well as subsequent self-harm. The reading experience might have been unbearable due to his suffering, but Yanagihara\u2019s skill keeps you reading: the narration is matter-of-fac Hey Jude, don\u2019t make it bad / Take a sad song and make it better * Jude St. Francis: Dickensian orphan, patron saint of lost causes, Christlike Man of Sorrows, and one of the most memorable characters in recent fiction. His body is riddled with disease and cross-hatched with scars from years of physical and sexual abuse as well as subsequent self-harm. The reading experience might have been unbearable due to his suffering, but Yanagihara\u2019s skill keeps you reading: the narration is matter-of-fact and revelation of Jude\u2019s past is incremental, so distressing flashbacks are punctuated with more innocuous events. There is nothing \u2018little\u2019 about this book or the life portrayed. The novel is an attempt to tackle the monolithic question of what makes life worth living. Among the potential answers: love (though it doesn\u2019t conquer all), friendship, creativity, and the family you create for yourself. Sure to be one of the books of the year, if not the decade. See my full review (with a discussion of the American vs. British covers) at Shiny New Books . *I cite these \u201cHey Jude\u201d lyrics somewhat ironically because Yanagihara\u2019s very intention (view spoiler) [(as stated in this Electric Literature interview ) was to portray a character who does not get better. [My alternate, more apposite listening suggestion would be Carrie & Lowell by Sufjan Stevens.] Although I suspected early on (perhaps around page 200) that this was going to be a posthumous account of Jude\u2019s life that comes out after his suicide, I kept wishing for a happy ending \u2013 oh how I wish the book could have ended on Part VI\u2019s hopeful tone! At the very least, someone could have gotten Jude a puppy. (hide spoiler) ] Related reading: \u2022\tI reviewed Yanagihara\u2019s debut novel The People in the Trees for We Love This Book in 2013 and admired it, but with rather mixed feelings. However, you can see the seeds of A Little Life in its pedophilia theme. \u2022\tChad Harbach\u2019s The Art of Fielding has a similar focus on homosocial and homoerotic bonds. Recommended articles: \u2022\t\u201cThe Great Gay Novel Might Be Here\u201d on The Atlantic [SPOILERS] \u2022\tYanagihara\u2019s eye-opening account of \u201cHow I Wrote My Novel\u201d on Vulture [again, SPOILERS] \u2022\tA fascinating exchange between Yanagihara and her editor, Gerry Howard, on Slate.com (he thinks of the book as a \u201cmiserabilist epic\u201d) & one more in the spoiler section above. ...more \u039e\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c7\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bd\u03ae\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 3 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b7\u03b3\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2. \u03a3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd, \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd. \u03a5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b7\u03b3\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 3 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9. \u0395\u03ba\u03b5\u03af \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2. \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c2, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b4\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03ce\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7 \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5. \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf \u039e\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03c9 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c7\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03ba\u03ac\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bd\u03ae\u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c3\u03b5 3 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b7\u03b3\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2. \u03a3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ad\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd, \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd. \u03a5\u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b7\u03b3\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 3 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9. \u0395\u03ba\u03b5\u03af \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2. \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c2, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b4\u03b7\u03bb\u03b1\u03b4\u03ae \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03ce\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7 \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5. \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ba\u03cc\u03c3\u03bc\u03bf, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03cd\u03c1\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1. \u039c\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b1, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03ad\u03c7\u03bd\u03b7. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03cc\u03bd \u03b7 4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b7\u03b3\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03a4\u03b1 \u0392\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1 \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03a4\u03b1 \u039f\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b1 \u0398\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u039d\u03b1 \u039c\u03b9\u03bb\u03ae\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5. \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c9\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03af\u03c0\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03be\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03cd\u03c1\u03c9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03b9\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5, \u03ad\u03c3\u03c4\u03c9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03b3\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c2. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 '\u039b\u03af\u03b3\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae'. \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c1\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03bf\u03af \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03ae\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5 \u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c7\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ac\u03ba\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2. 900 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03ac\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03cc, \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b2\u03b7\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03ac, \u03b1\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b4\u03b9\u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03b4\u03b9\u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u039d\u03ad\u03b1 \u03a5\u03cc\u03c1\u03ba\u03b7, \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03af\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c7\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c5\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b2\u03bf\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9, \u03c0\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9. \u0394\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c6\u03c4\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Wile E. Coyote \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c5\u03bd\u03b7\u03b3\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Road Runner \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 wrecking ball \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03b5\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b8\u03cd\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c7\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03ba\u03ad\u03c6\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1, \u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03cd \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ae \u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 '\u039b\u03af\u03b3\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae'. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03bd\u03bf\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03bf\u03c6\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03bd\u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c5\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b2\u03bf\u03bb\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03b7 \u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03af\u03b1, \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf, \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03bb\u03ac \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03b1. \u039d\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b7 \u03c6\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b7 \"\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 200 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b9\u03b3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\" \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bd\u03cc\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1. \u03a3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c0\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03ac \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1, \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a4\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4, \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u0393\u03bf\u03c5\u03af\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc, \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039c\u03ac\u03bb\u03ba\u03bf\u03bc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a4\u03b6\u03ad\u03b9 \u039c\u03c0\u03b9. \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b9\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03bb\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1, \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03ad\u03b3\u03b5\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c4\u03c3\u03b9\u03c4\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b9\u03ac\u03bb\u03b5\u03be\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 pop culture \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bc\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c7\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03b9\u03ac\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf PopCode [\u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c3\u03ba\u03cc\u03c0\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 '16] \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc quote \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ad\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03a4\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd\u03c4 \u03bf \u03a7\u03ac\u03c1\u03bf\u03bb\u03bd\u03c4: \u03a4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c5\u03ac\u03b6\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c0\u03c4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03cc,\u03c4\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03c7\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9, \u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03c3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03ce\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03bf\u03c5, \u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1\u03c5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03bf \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cd\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03b3\u03ac\u03c0\u03b7\u03c2, \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b7 Yanagihara \u03ba\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2, \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2, \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b1. \u039d\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 2016 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5. \u039b\u03af\u03b3\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae: \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 ...more I'll cut to the chase on this one fairly quickly: Hanya Yanagihara's A Little Life is nothing short of an utter masterpiece. This book is one of the most dazzlingly brilliant, emotionally moving books I've ever read, and it will be a long time before I can get these characters and their story out of my head. And truth be told, as painful as this book was in places, I don't know if I want to be rid of these characters anytime soon. \"It is always easier to believe what you already think than to t I'll cut to the chase on this one fairly quickly: Hanya Yanagihara's A Little Life is nothing short of an utter masterpiece. This book is one of the most dazzlingly brilliant, emotionally moving books I've ever read, and it will be a long time before I can get these characters and their story out of my head. And truth be told, as painful as this book was in places, I don't know if I want to be rid of these characters anytime soon. \"It is always easier to believe what you already think than to try to change your mind.\" A Little Life spans several decades in the lives of four college friends\u2014Willem, who becomes an actor; Malcolm, an architect; JB, an artist; and Jude, who becomes a lawyer. Each has their own emotional triggers and their challenges, both professionally and personally. While the book focuses on each of the four, it is enigmatic, troubled Jude who serves as the book's anchor and its soul. I went into this book knowing very little about the plot, mainly what I've outlined above, and I honestly am thankful for it. This is such a powerful book, and as issues were confronted, joyous moments celebrated, and troubling moments lamented over and deeply felt, not knowing what to expect made the impact of the story even more resonant for me. Yanagihara is a writer of exquisite beauty and she has created fascinating characters; none more so than Jude and Willem. Jude is truly unlike any character I think I've ever come across (and I read a ton of books). Never has a character moved me so, upset me so, and made me feel so powerfully. This is a story that finds wonder in the mundane but also dwells on truly troubling issues as well. Obviously, it is a book about the power of friendship and love\u2014platonic, romantic, filial\u2014but it is also a story of the fragility of emotions, the fears we must confront, and the devastating effects a lack of self-worth can have. This is a difficult and painful book to read in many places, but even as it tore my heart and made me cry (more than a few times), I couldn't get enough of it. It's amazing that a book of 700-plus pages can feel at once both so weighty and so light, but that is a testament to Yanagihara's talent. I find it hard to believe I will find a better book this year, and I think this may very well be among the top three books I've read in the last several years. I try not to hype books, nor do I try to give into hype. But read this. In the end, this is a book that needs to be read, with characters who need to be experienced and felt. Just wow. See all of my reviews at http://itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blo... . ...more I'm having really bad luck with long novels these days. There's just so much about this book I didn't like, and very little I did like, that I don't really want to talk about it very much. Everything was supremely unbelievable, especially the fact that Jude's life could be so perfect and his past and demons could be so traumatic. Did anyone ever just meet this guy and think, \"meh, what a sad sack\"? Did he ever take an exam and make a B? Did he ever just want to go to the movies or watch Netflix? I'm having really bad luck with long novels these days. There's just so much about this book I didn't like, and very little I did like, that I don't really want to talk about it very much. Everything was supremely unbelievable, especially the fact that Jude's life could be so perfect and his past and demons could be so traumatic. Did anyone ever just meet this guy and think, \"meh, what a sad sack\"? Did he ever take an exam and make a B? Did he ever just want to go to the movies or watch Netflix? Did he ever have any friends who said, \"you know what, Jude, I love you, but I'm not fucking flying to Paris for your birthday\"? Did his boss at a prestigious law firm ever just say, \"you know what, Jude, you need to shape the fuck up\"? I hated the theme that Jude had to have a bunch of reasons for his pain, that he wasn't depressed like all those other weirdoes who have no reasoning behind their despair. I hated the lack of female characters, especially the fact that he had an adoptive mother who played no significant role. I hated that every single one of his friends became successful artists and millionaires. I hated that every single character's life revolved around Jude. I hated that no one really pushed back against Jude, and the most tertiary characters were willing to drop everything to assist his self-destructive ass. The most realistically human part was JB's drug-induced verbal assault on Jude, and he's punished the rest of the book for it. A Little Life is overwrought, overwritten, and overcooked. UPDATE: This cover grosses me out so much. The overdramatic fakeness of the expression. The eye crinkles. The hand. The nose and lips. I want to ad-block it from my life. ...more<---C>Hanya Yanagihara</---C>", "Title": "A Little Life"},
