{"Comments": "Ehum\u2026 Well\u2026 What can I say? This is the tenth novel (or so, I just made a quick calculation in my head) by Coetzee that I have read, and it leaves me puzzled in a way that the others do not,<---M> even though they may be less approachable</---M>, more brutal and enigmatic. This one is clear-cut, with simple language and a typical coming-of-age plot. It is very easy to read, and in fact, I finished it in an afternoon. But it has left me agonising over its content in a way I did not anticipate at all. There are a Ehum\u2026 Well\u2026 What can I say? This is the tenth novel (or so, I just made a quick calculation in my head) by Coetzee that I have read, and it leaves me puzzled in a way that the others do not, even though they may be less approachable, more brutal and enigmatic. This one is clear-cut, with simple language and a typical coming-of-age plot. It is very easy to read, and in fact, I finished it in an afternoon. But it has left me agonising over its content in a way I did not anticipate at all. There are autobiographical elements in the story of the young man who leaves Cape Town in 1962 to start a new life in London. The character is called John, and aspires to become a poet, or writer in general, while trying to fit in by taking a job as a computer programmer.<---F> So far, so good</---F>. It is the search of the poet for the right modus vivendi to develop his creativity. Where is the problem? I absolutely loathed the main character. There is no other way to describe what I felt, page after page, digging deeper into his psyche filled with pretentious nothingness and arrogance. This makes me wonder what the character meant to the author. Does he reflect Coetzee\u2019s own development? If so, there is a huge amount of prejudice and misogyny in his world view, almost painfully evident in every sentence. Or is it a critical analysis of the mindset of the early 1960s, showing the reality of that time ruthlessly in order to make a subtle statement on the era without embracing those attitudes in 2002, when the novel was published? I don\u2019t know. Apart from the problematic relationship of 1960s South Africa to the rest of the world, I was appalled by the stereotypical description of women from Provence, London, small towns in England or Sweden. \u201cSpiritually, he would feel at home in Stockholm, he suspects. But what about Swedish?\u201d I hate when people assume by hearsay that they know exactly what Sweden is like, and what they can expect of it. There seems to be a consensus in the world how to categorise Swedes, and the general common denominator between the analysts is that they have never lived in Sweden or talked to a Swede, or read a Swedish author. Yet, they \u201cspiritually\u201d identify with Stockholm. Swedish women, of course, are useful to young poets-in-the-making with patriarchal instincts and ancient attitudes towards women\u2019s roles as muses and sexual objects: \u201cBecause they are creators, artists possess the secret of love. The fire that burns in artists is visible to women, by means of an instinctive faculty. Women themselves do not have the sacred fire (there are exceptions: Sappho, Emily Bronte). It is in quest of the fire they lack, the fire of love, that women pursue artists and give themselves to them.\u201d Good artists can hope for Swedish or French muses, while boring poets have to take a local girl, a pert little something from the countryside\u2026 Judging by the butcher approach of the main character when it comes to all encounters with women, he does not have the creative spark himself, despite his conviction to the contrary. He is literally caught between two worlds: the respectable middle class and the bohemian artist life, and he is equally inapt at both: \u201cThe right thing is boring. So he is at an impasse: he would rather be bad than boring [note from the furious reviewer: he is BOTH!], has no respect for a person who would rather be bad than boring, and no respect either for the cleverness of being able to put his dilemma neatly into words.\u201d No respect for anything might be a good summary of the character\u2019s mindset. The outside world only exists to deliver what he needs to fulfil his literary destiny. He offers nothing in return. Leaves me to form a judgment on the novel. Clearly Mr Coetzee himself is spiritually at home in Stockholm, as he received the Nobel Prize in Literature from the Swedish Academy in 2003, shortly after he wrote this novel. Clearly he has a sharp analytical mind and is able to describe an abject character objectively without raising an eyebrow. The story as such is compelling, and most definitely a mirror of what many young men in 1962 would have thought or done. It does take a master storyteller to create a portrait of such a man and get the reader to feel so strongly against him, and still want to read on. I will have to reread my Coetzee collection again in order to make a proper evaluation of why I can\u2019t make up my mind about this one. The jury is still out. Not expected back anytime soon. ...more Ah, to be welcomed back into the eloquent polished sheen of Coetzee\u2019s prose. So quickly I join the young man leaving the smothering mother\u2019s grasp, himself now grasping to evolve into the blossom of poetry. From South Africa to London where culture thrives and he sees himself entering. What he finds is a wait. He awaits. Waiting is what he does. His performance. A woman will notice him and see all the magic of his creativity locked within his stiff posture and muffled gestures. She will unlock w Ah, to be welcomed back into the eloquent polished sheen of Coetzee\u2019s prose. So quickly I join the young man leaving the smothering mother\u2019s grasp, himself now grasping to evolve into the blossom of poetry. From South Africa to London where culture thrives and he sees himself entering. What he finds is a wait. He awaits. Waiting is what he does. His performance. A woman will notice him and see all the magic of his creativity locked within his stiff posture and muffled gestures. She will unlock what he knows is there but is knotted. The knot cinched tight consists of strands of webbing. He has cultured the art of self criticism locking himself in while locking others out. This leaves him protected but passive. In effect keeping himself safe by keeping others out. He is a pro. No one enters justifying his beliefs of self criticism completing the circle of his diving further down into his passive withdrawal. I couldn\u2019t wait to follow Coetzee removing strand by strand, the ups and downs, John staging the battle to free himself. But\u2026But\u2026But\u2026 it didn\u2019t happen. A set piece. A concert where the same note is played over and over again, at the end no one sure whether to stand and applaud or walk out. I found the aisle and walked out. John continued in his self constructed rut. This short novel gave the experience of what it is like to be trapped by one\u2019s own undoing but nothing more. The fact that our protagonist has the same name as the author, for me now looking back, shows Coetzee\u2019s own battle writing this piece. The piece becoming a piece about itself? ...more From the book cover: Set against the background of the 1960's - Sharpeville and the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam - <+++>Youth</+++> is a remarkable portrait of a consciousness, isolated and adrift, turning in on itself. J.M Coetzee explores a young man's struggle to find his way in the world with tenderness and a fierce clarity. Hmmm. When I first started reading this book my first thought was, Dawsons Creek, with aspergers set in the 1960's. To much youthful angst and introverted navel gazing highlighted by From the book cover: Set against the background of the 1960's - Sharpeville and the Cuban Missile Crisis, Vietnam - <+++>Youth</+++> is a remarkable portrait of a consciousness, isolated and adrift, turning in on itself. J.M Coetzee explores a young man's struggle to find his way in the world with tenderness and a fierce clarity. Hmmm. When I first started reading this book my first thought was, Dawsons Creek, with aspergers set in the 1960's. To much youthful angst and introverted navel gazing highlighted by a tumult of excessive adjectives to describe every thought, every hope, every breath, every aspiration (see what i did there?). Youth is a study of a man who spends too much time believing that he was destined for better things and over analysing the fact that instead of being born as the 1960's answer Voltaire or Flaubert, he is in fact a computer programmer. A wordy testament to the fact that as we get older most of us realise that we are not going to set the world on fire and get on with simply living.The last four lines of the book were a great summary. Not convinced it deserved a place on the 1001 books list and I've since read other Coetzee books which I liked a lot more. ...more Just reread it. The ending was pretty devastating. The whole book was really. I don't generally care for coming-of-age stories but Coetzee is such a fascinating individual to me (maybe because I'm a fellow uber-rational, emotional cripple)... \"She writes every week but he does not write every week in return. That would be too much like reciprocation.\" \"He has a horror of spilling mere emotion on to the page. Once it has begun to spill out he would not know how to stop it. It would be like severing Just reread it. The ending was pretty devastating. The whole book was really. I don't generally care for coming-of-age stories but Coetzee is such a fascinating individual to me (maybe because I'm a fellow uber-rational, emotional cripple)... \"She writes every week but he does not write every week in return. That would be too much like reciprocation.\" \"He has a horror of spilling mere emotion on to the page. Once it has begun to spill out he would not know how to stop it. It would be like severing an artery and watching one's lifeblood gush out.\" \"They might as well get married, he and Astrid, then spend the rest of their lives looking after each other like invalids.\" \"He is chagrined to see how well the reality principle operates, how, under the prod of loneliness, the boy with spots settles for the girl with the dull hair and the heavy legs, how everyone, no matter how unlikely, finds, in the end, a partner.\" \"Without descending into the depths one cannot be an artist. But what exactly are the depths? He had thought that trudging down icy streets, his heart numb with loneliness, was the depths. But perhaps the real depths are different, and come in unexpected form: in a flare-up of nastiness against a girl in the early hours of the morning, for instance. Perhaps the depths that he has wanted to plumb have been within him all the time, closed up in his chest: depths of coldness, callousness, caddishness.\" \"Sorry: the word comes heavily out of his mouth, like a stone. Does a single word of indeterminate class count as speech? Has what occurred between himself and the old man been an instance of human contact, or is it better described as mere social interaction, like the touching of feelers between ants? To the old man, certainly, it was nothing. All day long the old man stands there with his stacks of papers, muttering angrily to himself; he is always waiting for a chance to abuse some passer-by. Whereas in his own case the memory of that single words will persist for weeks, perhaps for the rest of his life. Bumping into people, saying \u201cSorry!\u201d, getting abused: a ruse, a cheap way of forcing a conversation. How to trick loneliness.\" \"What is wrong with him is that he is not prepared to fail.\" ...more How do bitter and twisted, lonely, emotionally crippled older men start out? Men whose relationships, if any, have always soured early, men whose jobs are all that sustain them, mediocre jobs with colleagues who never become friends. Men whose strict weekend routines stop loneliness from being more than an uneasy feeling which never quite comes to the surface. Never quite acknowledged. They start out as bitter and twisted Youth . In this novel by Coetzee, we see the establishment of such a being, How do bitter and twisted, lonely, emotionally crippled older men start out? Men whose relationships, if any, have always soured early, men whose jobs are all that sustain them, mediocre jobs with colleagues who never become friends. Men whose strict weekend routines stop loneliness from being more than an uneasy feeling which never quite comes to the surface. Never quite acknowledged. They start out as bitter and twisted Youth . In this novel by Coetzee, we see the establishment of such a being, a young man who thinks somehow that his cold alienating ways will make him a poet. When it turns out that he has nothing more in him than the capacity to be a computer programmer, and an undistinguished one of those, he sees his future as a hollow meaningless thing. We do not find out if his life remained the mean and nasty existence he portended. Enter Nagasaki . Here we meet a man who might be the person Youth foresaw. Towards the end of his nondescript career he is alone, as far as we know he has never had a meaningful relationship with anybody, including his relations. When not at work he is at home, when at home, the person he talks to is himself. He has no friends, no interests, nothing about him justifies his carbon footprint. Like Youth, he is given the opportunity to live, to behave with largesse, to give. Like Youth he cannot do that. Both of them experience discomfort, unease at their utter meanness of spirit, but neither is capable of being a new person. Is this inevitable? Enter Mr Stone of Mr Stone and the Knights Companion . rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre... ...more Reading <---A>J.M. Coetzee</---A>'s work is somewhat exhausting. No matter how you're psyched to think you're in the same current stage in life to master reading a masterpiece, you'll eventually left dumbfounded and coerced to rethink what's come to the life of the character that is hard to articulate. Or maybe their life, even so much different than yours, can be terrifyingly comprehensible and it's unbearable not to weight on their decisions as if they were yours to bear. Writing such wonderful characters Reading J.M. Coetzee's work is somewhat exhausting. No matter how you're psyched to think you're in the same current stage in life to master reading a masterpiece, you'll eventually left dumbfounded and coerced to rethink what's come to the life of the character that is hard to articulate. Or maybe their life, even so much different than yours, can be terrifyingly comprehensible and it's unbearable not to weight on their decisions as if they were yours to bear. Writing such wonderful characters is truly Coetzee's purest gift. The main character in this book is arrogant, idealistic, ignorant and self-absorbed as may him be called out. He is desperately trying to escape from whose life he is living in by over-analysing everything comes between who he is and the definition of what he wants to be -- the great poet. His existence depends on the ideal meaning he's craving to trap himself into. The belief that his life is destined for something much greater than he is at the moment manifests him and fosters his ignorance. While, so many conditions: racial and historical influence hinder his dreams, or what he believes that he could acquire; the ability to write, love and care for the other human beings. All those are missing throughout the flood of social dilemma, racial bias, xenophobia, and most of all concluded as the sense of alienation by leaving for the motherland to live in the foreign country with the heart full of false hope. Yep, it's pretty much like reading about a white man's delusional crippled mind with the psychoanalysis approach and so many literary criticism which, I could say, is the major fondness I have for this book. His taste for poetry is pretty much the same as mine. Lol. ...more Youth (Scenes from Provincial Life #2), J.M. Coetzee \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u062c\u0648\u0627\u0646\u06cc - \u0633\u0647 \u06af\u0627\u0646\u0647 \u0635\u062d\u0646\u0647 \u0647\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0627\u0632 \u0632\u0646\u062f\u06af\u06cc \u0634\u0647\u0631\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646 - \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 \u062f\u0648\u0645\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u062c\u06cc.\u0627\u0645. (\u062c\u0627\u0646 \u0645\u06a9\u0633\u0648\u0644) \u06a9\u0648\u062a\u0633\u06cc\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f\u062d\u0633\u0646 \u0633\u062c\u0648\u062f\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0627\u0641\u06a9\u0627\u0631\u060c 1385\u060c \u062f\u0631 176 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9648910405\u061b \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639: \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u06af\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0641\u0631\u06cc\u0642\u0627\u06cc\u06cc \u0627\u0646\u06af\u0644\u06cc\u0633\u06cc \u0648 \u0628\u0631\u0646\u062f\u0647 \u062c\u0627\u06cc\u0632\u0647 \u0646\u0648\u0628\u0644 - \u0642\u0631\u0646 21 \u0645 \"Youth\" is a portrait of an artist as a young man - struggling to find his way. Maybe I will just start with a quote; \"At 18 he might have been a poet. Now he is not a poet, not a writer, not an artist. He is a computer programmer, a 24year old computer programmer in a world where there are (yet) no 30 year old computer programmers. At 31 he is too old to be a programmer: one turns oneself into something else - some kind of businessman - or shoots oneself\" Coetzee. Darn. I have 7 foolscap pages of \"Youth\" is a portrait of an artist as a young man - struggling to find his way. Maybe I will just start with a quote; \"At 18 he might have been a poet. Now he is not a poet, not a writer, not an artist. He is a computer programmer, a 24year old computer programmer in a world where there are (yet) no 30 year old computer programmers. At 31 he is too old to be a programmer: one turns oneself into something else - some kind of businessman - or shoots oneself\" Coetzee. Darn. I have 7 foolscap pages of handwritten notes I made while reading. Somehow have to condense it. I will return to this. ************************************************************************ Review in progress / feeling too sick to write reviews too fast between coughing. This was excellent though. Want to read more of Coetzee. Recommend this for would be writers, poets or anyone really who is sucking on their misery / dark night of the soul stuff. btw excuse slashes / as punctuation, my keyboard is cracking up in sympathy with my lungs. Delete, hyphen and various other keys not working. Library borrow. Just discovered this author last night and found this slim volume on my college library shelves today. I am trying to expand the range of authors I'm reading so this is kind of like a test drive. ...more I LOVE Coetzee. No more words are there to express my feelings for him. :) How to tell the story of a life? Life is: books, art, sex, moving, school and institutions, and the interior life: fear of ignominy, hierarchies of learning (pure math over applied math; scorning the authors that authors you admire disdain), the feeling of belonging or lack thereof. Is the narrator aware of the limits of \"his\" 3rd person main character? The narrowness of some of that character's views on life and women and art? Are we meant to take John's analyses at face value? Or is Youth a sel How to tell the story of a life? Life is: books, art, sex, moving, school and institutions, and the interior life: fear of ignominy, hierarchies of learning (pure math over applied math; scorning the authors that authors you admire disdain), the feeling of belonging or lack thereof. Is the narrator aware of the limits of \"his\" 3rd person main character? The narrowness of some of that character's views on life and women and art? Are we meant to take John's analyses at face value? Or is Youth a self knowing allegory of a maturity that seems full but is actually only part? John contemplates the greatest art but is still as lost as one can be about how to live. However narrow and single-minded John's worldview, the novel is a reminder that worldviews are tended, like plants in a garden. They're planted with art and reading and teachings of all kinds and fertilized with experience. I can look down on John for being overly deterministic and foolish about both poetry and women; and yet I admire him for actively tending to coherent theories about any part of the world, and giving real import to what his working theories say about his own life. This kind of interior moral life which is all wrapped up in an artistic life - it's familiar to me. And my own tendency is toward nihilistic chaos to soothe me from even trying to be moral or be an artist. When I reflect quietly, I don't believe in nihilism. When I flip the channels and swiftly scroll through the feeds, I let it run me. ...more This is the most autobigraphical book i related to on so many levels, however reluctant i am to admit that. Its a rather bleak book with such raw honesty and rhetoric questions. This is my first book by Coetzee, and i absolutely love it, his way of exploring so much striking truth in this short sentences, going straight into the consciousness of the 19 year old in London. I find myself enjoying it and finishing it fast, probably the fastest i have ever finished a book. The pretentiousness of an This is the most autobigraphical book i related to on so many levels, however reluctant i am to admit that. Its a rather bleak book with such raw honesty and rhetoric questions. This is my first book by Coetzee, and i absolutely love it, his way of exploring so much striking truth in this short sentences, going straight into the consciousness of the 19 year old in London. I find myself enjoying it and finishing it fast, probably the fastest i have ever finished a book. The pretentiousness of an artist wannabe in london, debating what it means and takes to be an artist, wondering how others do it, being in london yet not living within it and what it offers, drifting and justifying what he is doing, secretly desiring the torture of being an artist - only superficially, the relation between being a good lover/artist, lots of contemplation and doubts delivered in a rather casual way. Im not sure if the title is apt, is this what being young is all about, is this what everyone can relate to in their youth? and ultimately settle into a job, car and family? Gone is the passion and intensity of being young? or does it just manifest in different ways? ...more By page 115 of this slim fictional memoir, Coetzee had convinced me that he's a beautiful writer. He manages to avoid corniness, even though he's describing the inner narrative of an ex-pat wannabe poet (recipe for sappy disaster). There are some ethical musings in here which are quite good and I like the whole construct of an author describing a fictional character's interaction with other authors. It achieves a distance between Coetzee and his pathetic, miserable hero that is compelling. There By page 115 of this slim fictional memoir, Coetzee had convinced me that he's a beautiful writer. He manages to avoid corniness, even though he's describing the inner narrative of an ex-pat wannabe poet (recipe for sappy disaster). There are some ethical musings in here which are quite good and I like the whole construct of an author describing a fictional character's interaction with other authors. It achieves a distance between Coetzee and his pathetic, miserable hero that is compelling. There is a lot of pitiful self-mockery involved here that may be depressing for some, but which for me was a breath of fresh air after reading so many novels in which the characters pretend to psychologically self-flagellating just to garner the sympathy of the reader. Here the narrator's self-disgust is genuine and not particularly unwarranted, mean as that may sound. ...more Ah, I think I can never dislike J.M. Coetzee's work. There are exceptional depths in his characters that make me feel like I've known them all my life - the magistrate in Waiting for the Barbarians, Magda in In the Heart of the Country, the professor in Disgrace. They are all extremely different characters, from extremely different circumstances, locations, ages, and time. But written by Coetzee they seem to speak in voices that you can relate to, no matter how un-relatable they should be. Coetz Ah, I think I can never dislike J.M. Coetzee's work. There are exceptional depths in his characters that make me feel like I've known them all my life - the magistrate in Waiting for the Barbarians, Magda in In the Heart of the Country, the professor in Disgrace. They are all extremely different characters, from extremely different circumstances, locations, ages, and time. But written by Coetzee they seem to speak in voices that you can relate to, no matter how un-relatable they should be. Coetzee is a master storyteller. He puts in a lot of detail not just through his prolific description, but through the words the characters choose to use, the opinions, likings and dislikings they have; the first-person narratives he writes seem to embody those very people to perfection. And of course Youth is an autobiography - so how much more accurate can an author like Coetzee be, if he is speaking in his own voice from the past? The book is brutally honest, like diary entries the writer knows would be read by thousands of people; people who would judge and berate him for simply being a human being. Like everyone else, the author is selfish, arrogant, insecure, often lonely, often ambitious, but most of the time, he is just fine. He is doing okay. He rejects and is rejected, he ignores and he is ignored, he is lonely but has encountered a lonelier friend, he is considerably intelligent but realizes he's no match to the genuine geniuses at work. He wanted to avoid mediocrity his whole youth, but he embraced it in the end, quite contented to just be alive and be okay. He is like many of us. As to how much I would recommend a reading of this book, I would say, it's Coetzee, read him! You will both hate and love his characters, but more than that, you will never be able to forget them. ...more Una de las novelas m\u00e1s \u00f1o\u00f1as jam\u00e1s escritas. Los escritores suelen hacerlo en sus memorias, pero tiene sentido: no todos los escritores son Burroughs ni todos se pasaron la mitad de su vida enajenados con una bolsa de correspondencia al hombro. Las confesiones de juventud (ficticias o reales, no me importa) suelen ser una \u00f1o\u00f1er\u00eda, sin embargo esto no significa que no est\u00e9n escritas con una prosa bien lograda, como de una persona que ha trabajado en su voz narrativa (tiene un Nobel, co\u00f1o). Juventu Una de las novelas m\u00e1s \u00f1o\u00f1as jam\u00e1s escritas. Los escritores suelen hacerlo en sus memorias, pero tiene sentido: no todos los escritores son Burroughs ni todos se pasaron la mitad de su vida enajenados con una bolsa de correspondencia al hombro. Las confesiones de juventud (ficticias o reales, no me importa) suelen ser una \u00f1o\u00f1er\u00eda, sin embargo esto no significa que no est\u00e9n escritas con una prosa bien lograda, como de una persona que ha trabajado en su voz narrativa (tiene un Nobel, co\u00f1o). Juventud es la narraci\u00f3n en segunda persona de la vida de un joven escritor sudafricano que vive en Londres, luchando contra la rutina que puede convertirse en la enemiga de sus ambiciones literarias y explorando el mundo m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de los l\u00edmites de su colonia. En otras palabras, es el comod\u00edn de la novela del escritor poscolonial, sin embargo no llega a los niveles po\u00e9ticos de Naipaul. As\u00ed pues, recomiendo este libro de Coetzee como \"lectura de anteojos\" (para descansar entre libros densos). Y, a pesar de mis reservas, tiene p\u00e1rrafos sublimes como este: \"As\u00ed es como se hace, as\u00ed es como funciona e mundo. Y un d\u00eda, estos hombres, estos poetas, estos amantes, tendr\u00e1n suerte: la chica, no importa la excelencia de su belleza, les responder\u00e1, y una cosa llevar\u00e1 a la otra y sus vidas se transformar\u00e1n, las de ambos, y punto. \u00bfQu\u00e9 m\u00e1s hace falta sino una especie de obstinaci\u00f3n est\u00fapida e insensata como amante y escritor unida a la buena disposici\u00f3n para fracasar una y otra vez?\" ...more I am all for flawed protagonists, but not perhaps, for insufferable ones. And John, center of this story, is obnoxious. Women are objects, it's their fault they can't see into his inner flame of poetry, his mother likes him too much, blah blah blah pretention. I like to think Coetzee wrote this with self awareness, but it is still a frustrating read. Anyways, he still has a way with words. The one saving grace are the passages on loneliness in a new city. Most remarkable is counting the days in I am all for flawed protagonists, but not perhaps, for insufferable ones. And John, center of this story, is obnoxious. Women are objects, it's their fault they can't see into his inner flame of poetry, his mother likes him too much, blah blah blah pretention. I like to think Coetzee wrote this with self awareness, but it is still a frustrating read. Anyways, he still has a way with words. The one saving grace are the passages on loneliness in a new city. Most remarkable is counting the days in which he does not speak to another soul. At one point, he considers bumping into people on purpose so that he can say \"sorry\", so that words come out of his mouth. ...more I've got a new favorite writer I picked this book off the library shelf and read the blurb, and decided to read it because there seemed to be parallels with my own youth. What did I hope for? To make sense of my own youth? To make sense of things that happened to me? The protagonist in the book is a mathematics student at the University of Cape Town who wants to go to London to become a, writer, a poet. In the 1960s he goes, but having arrived in London he needs to get a job in order to live, and with his mathematical qualific I picked this book off the library shelf and read the blurb, and decided to read it because there seemed to be parallels with my own youth. What did I hope for? To make sense of my own youth? To make sense of things that happened to me? The protagonist in the book is a mathematics student at the University of Cape Town who wants to go to London to become a, writer, a poet. In the 1960s he goes, but having arrived in London he needs to get a job in order to live, and with his mathematical qualifications he manages to get one as a computer programmer with IBM. In his spare time he sits in the British Museum doing research for his writing, and later for a thesis for which he is offered a bursary. But gradually loneliness and mediocrity and boredom squeeze all the creativity out of him and he has less and less to say. And I could see parallels with my own life. Why should I write about my own life? It's not about me, it's about the book. But I picked up the book thinking it was about me, or that it might tell me something about me, so in a sense it is about me, and I compare myself with the protagonist in the book. I was a student at the University of Natal in Pietermaritzburg, and studied there from 1963 to 1965, majoring in Theology and Biblical Studies, with a minor in History. The Anglican bishop of Natal had found me a place for further study at St Chad's College, Durham, for the post-graduate Diploma in Theology. So, like the protagonist in Youth , I went to the UK in January 1966. The UK academic year only begins in September so I got a job driving buses in London to fill in the time, and I stayed in a lonely bed-sit, and for six months spent much of my spare time in my room in Streatham feeling alienated. Like the protagonist I felt a bit concerned about the Vietnam War. He wrote to the Chinese embassy and offered to go and teach English. I went to a couple of demos, one of them by accident. So much for the similarities, But there were also differences. The book tells nothing of the protagonist's journey, how he left, his first impressions on arriving, or anything like that. Just that he was glad to be in London, and glad to be out of the stifling restrictions of South Africa, and planned never to return. He went by sea, because he landed at Southampton. Though he seems to have been uninvolved in political activities in South Africa, he did not approve of the Nationalist government, I wondered how, having majored in Mathematics, he was allowed to enrol for postgraduate studies in English literature, with a thesis on Ford Madox Ford. In my experience South African universities don't work like that, but J.M. Coetzee was a professor of English literature at the University of Cape Town for several years, so perhaps he knows something that I don't. I was a bit more involved in political activities in my final year at university than the guy in the book, and in the middle of my final exams got an official warning under the Suppression of Communism Act that if I did not desist from activities that \"further or are calculated to further any of the objects of communism\" action would be taken against me. Most of my friends who had had such warnings got banning orders a few months later, so, in view of my plans to go and study in the UK I dropped my idea of a political holiday, and after my last exam went to Johannesburg and worked as a bus driver, saving money to pay for the boat fare overseas. Like the protagonist in the book, I wanted to go by sea. I drove buses and did as much overtime as I could to save money for the boat fare. Nevertheless, one afternoon as I was about to go to work I got a phone call from a Detective Sergeant van den Heever, of, as he said, the CID. He wanted to come and see me. I told him I was going to work, and would arrange to see him in the morning, after my overtime. I thought he could only want me for one (or both) of two things: to confiscate my passport or give me a banning order, either of which would scupper my plans for overseas study. After consultation with friends, I decided it would be best to be out of the country when Detective Sergent van den Heever wanted to see me the next morning, so I drove through the night to Bulawayo in UDI Rhodesia in my mother's car, with a friend who would bring the car back. We crossed the border at Beit Bridge when it opened at dawn, and by the time we got to Bulawayo there was a message from my mother to say she had booked me on a flight to London. So I boarded the plane late in the afternoon, and arrived in London the following day, feeling homesick, like an exile. Unlike the bloke in the book, my alienation set in right away. I hadn't expected culture shock, because after all they spoke English, there, didn't they? But it was all so sudden and so strange. I suspect many South Africans who left South Africa in a hurry in the 1960s had similar experiences to mine, but the book mentions nothing of that. One of the first things I had to do after arriving was to apply for an Aliens Registration Certificate. And when I got it, it said that I was not permitted to take employment, paid or unpaid, without the permission of the Minister of Labour. So how was I to survive for eight months until the university term began? The protagonist in the book faced nothing like that. So I began to ask how I could get that condition waived, so I could get a job. Well, they said, if you come to us showing you have a written job offer, you can apply for that to be altered. But no one was prepared to offer a job and then wait for the bureaucracy to grant permission. It was the classic Catch 22, just like black people in South Africa had to face under the pass laws, but there it was in their own country. I knew about the effexta of the pass laws from being told about it and from reading, but now I was experiencing it first hand. Useful experience if one wants to be a writer and write a book. That's what the protagonist in the book says too. After a number of unsuccessful attempts, I worked out how to play the system. I went to London Transport, applied for a job as a bus driver, noting that there was a labour exchange just across the road. Once I and the other applicants had been definitely offered the job, I asked the bloke at London Transport to sign the paper from the Ministry of Labour saying that employing me would not deprive a British citizen of a job. That was unlikely -- London Transport had more vacancies (about 7000) than the entire running staff employed by the Johannesburg Transport Department (about 1700). While the others all went off to tea I scuttled across the road to the labour exchange, showed them the paper with the job offer, and the application form from the Home Office for permission to take employment, and said \"please sign there and put your stamp on it\". The bloke behind the counter looked at me as if I was mad, but did what I asked, and I went back across the road and joined the others for tea. Having passed out as a driver (and yes, driving double-decker buses on the skid pan was great fun), I had to choose a garage. I said Peckham or Lewisham, which were the closest to some South African friends I might want to visit in my time off. But they said, no, it has to be where you live. I said I don't live anywhere. I'm staying with a bloke who put me up out of the kindness of his heart, but now wants me out of his guest room. But that didn't wash. Brixton was closest to his place so I must go there I looked at the notices offering rooms to let. There was one with an Indian landlord. I went and knocked on the door. While I was waiting for someone to answer the door of the next door house opened (the houses were all built up close together -- I hadn't yet learned that they were called terraces), and an English woman asked what I wanted. I said they had advertised a room to let. She said, \"They're Indians, you know. I wouldn't like you to stay there.\" I was gobsmacked (well, not really, \"gobsmacked\" only came into the language about 20 years later, but you know what I mean). I thought I'd left such racism behind in South Africa, and one of the cool things about being in Britain was that I could have an Indian landlord and the government wouldn't do a thing to stop me. I hadn't taken nosy neighbours into account. That one fell through, but the next one I tried advertised an African landlady. That felt like closer to home. She turned out to be from Sierra Leone, which is a long way from South Africa, but at least halfway home. She was Mrs Emily Williams, and her daughter Joyce was in her last year at high school and hoping to start at an English university at the same time as I was. The next door neighbours there were English too, but a lot more friendly. So the book was my story, but not my story. Perhaps another book needs to be written. Perhaps several other books need to be written. ...more I was looking at the library shelves for something to take with me during a 2 weeks trip to UK, with almost a week in London. Most books went over my then mood, but landed in this with luck. From the first paragraph itself it was clear that I will love this book. The mood of the prose just hit it off. I had read some Coetzee a few years back, mainly his acclaimed novel Disgrace. I had liked that book, even though I went over some of the Byron; I would like to re-read it. I did own a copy of Youth I was looking at the library shelves for something to take with me during a 2 weeks trip to UK, with almost a week in London. Most books went over my then mood, but landed in this with luck. From the first paragraph itself it was clear that I will love this book. The mood of the prose just hit it off. I had read some Coetzee a few years back, mainly his acclaimed novel Disgrace. I had liked that book, even though I went over some of the Byron; I would like to re-read it. I did own a copy of Youth back in India, bought post-Disgrace, but somehow it was too gloomy for my mood then. As a then IBM-er, I eagerly went through what he had to say about his experience in the company, but the whole mood kind of escaped me then. Not this time. There could not have been a more perfect book for my current sensibilities. The pace of the text was perfect for me, also his simple, well composed, grave prose. I could identify with some of his experiences, but more importantly than that, the book was about wannabe artist figuring out things, a person growing up, alienation, intimacy issues and sex that's never what it's said to be, deracination, urban loneliness and the post-colonial experience. Some parts of the book could have been a la Bukowski or even Houellebecq, but not really, because Coetzee's not into misanthropy as a philosophy, the prose does not celebrate it or his condition, instead he is apologetic about his condition, especially since he's writing in retrospect and with distance, thus graceful and earning a melancholic empathy for him. The reference to a few Indians was also interesting, so was his linking of the post-colonials' similarity of experience. Plus: the conference I was attending was next to Guy's Hospital, and we indeed had an apero up at the top floor of the building (29?) -- Youth refers to the Hospital (as the pride of a nurse-girlfriend of him back in South Africa, having been trained there). He talks about everything from Charring Cross Road to the Heaths, to Foyles (in SA, appears there was a legend that the Foyles of London stocks everything in print ('obviously a lie') -- I've heard similar legends in my hometown about bookshops in faraway, bigger cities), the reading room of the then-British Museum (where so many legends including Marx did what Coetzee was doing). More plus? I finished this book and searched the mini-library of the BnB I was staying for what it has, and randomly found 'Inside the Whale'. an essay by Orwell analyzing the sociological roots of the various movements of early 20th century literature, focussing on Henry Miller but also referring to Eliot and Pound. All favorites of the Coetzee of Youth. Full marks for the whole experience. I looked for Coetzee in a few second hand bookshops in UK, and bought Foe (would have bought Summertime if I had found it). And also Tropic of Cancer. Let me see. ...more Maybe I am just bored with J.M. Coetzee's utter literary perfection, but I will not rate \"Youth\" with five stars. Clearly, it is a five-star work in any reasonable scale, but not when compared with \"Disgrace\", \"Waiting for the Barbarians\", or \"Boyhood\". To me, \"Youth\" is a great book, yet a tiny bit short of a masterpiece. Like \"Boyhood\", this book is a fictionalized autobiography. It covers the period from 1959 to 1963 or so, meaning that \"he\" (the author writes about himself in the third person Maybe I am just bored with J.M. Coetzee's utter literary perfection, but I will not rate \"Youth\" with five stars. Clearly, it is a five-star work in any reasonable scale, but not when compared with \"Disgrace\", \"Waiting for the Barbarians\", or \"Boyhood\". To me, \"Youth\" is a great book, yet a tiny bit short of a masterpiece. Like \"Boyhood\", this book is a fictionalized autobiography. It covers the period from 1959 to 1963 or so, meaning that \"he\" (the author writes about himself in the third person) is 19 years old when the book begins, and about 23 when it ends. He studies mathematics at a Cape Town University in South Africa and plans to devote himself to art. The danger of getting called to military service forces him to leave the country. He moves to London, where he finds a job as a computer programmer, all the time trying hard to become an artist Cold War is at its peak, the Cuban missile crisis threatens the world with nuclear annihilation, horrible events are happening in South Africa torn by racial strife. He is trying to escape from politics, and also to shake off the possessive love of his mother, or, as the author writes, \"to run away from his mother and the smothering ease she offers.\" He has not yet become himself and is still trying. He is of the age when the discrepancy between what a young man knows (not much) and what he thinks he knows (a lot) is most pronounced. Mr. Coetzee again shows his unparalleled mastery of the literary craft by writing from within the mind of a naive young man, who - because of his voracious reading - believes he knows almost all there is to know about life. He matures a little, though, and wonders \"Is that what growing up amounts to: growing out of yearning, of passion, of all intensities of the soul?\" This beautifully written book, full of wisdom about people and their lives, can also be read as a treatise on art: poetry, literature, music, painting. It has stunning passages that take my breath away. On the grass of Hampstead Heath \"he experiences a moment of ecstatic unity with the All!\". Once, being his age, I had a similar experience. But I wish I were so hard on myself as \"he\" is, and as thoughtful in understanding and exposing the weaknesses and dark, scary corners of my psyche. So why not five stars? I perceive some lack of cohesion in portraying \"his\" inner self and the big events of the outer, real world. They feel separate. Maybe it was the author's intention, and I am just not getting it. Anyway, I read \"Youth\" much faster than \"Boyhood\", which means that it was not extremely delightful reading, just very delightful. Four and a half stars. ...more A white confused South African who wants to escape his homeland,one he feels is not rightfully his, to become a poet in the land of the artists and writers. While he would love to go to France, he settles for England. And there, he is again forced to settle for less. He settles for a job that puts food on his table but eats away his creative soul. He settles for women who aren't the muse he is desperately looking for. But that poet in him does not settle down. It flits from thought to thought, a A white confused South African who wants to escape his homeland,one he feels is not rightfully his, to become a poet in the land of the artists and writers. While he would love to go to France, he settles for England. And there, he is again forced to settle for less. He settles for a job that puts food on his table but eats away his creative soul. He settles for women who aren't the muse he is desperately looking for. But that poet in him does not settle down. It flits from thought to thought, aimlessly drifting through the days and nights, summers and winters hoping that his dreams will somehow find him. The prose is beautiful. It just moves from moment to moment, feeling to feeling in a rushed, haphazard way. It makes you feel helpless and while you keep hoping for something good to happen, you somehow know that nothing is going to happen.There are so many poets and authors referred to in the book, most of them whom I haven't read or even heard of. Makes me want to try them, maybe I'll start with Ezra Pound, our hero's hero. While the political situation across the world in the early sixties isn't the main backdrop, it is the undercurrent that drives the narration forward. I realized that know so little about South Africa. There's a touch of India too. Satyajit Ray makes an appearance and so does Indian curry. And it also appears that Indian computer programmers living abroad haven't changed their habits over the decades. '\"At 18 he might have been a poet. Now he is not a poet, not a writer, not an artist. He is a computer programmer, a 24year old computer programmer in a world where there are (yet) no 30 year old computer programmers. At 31 he is too old to be a programmer: one turns oneself into something else - some kind of businessman - or shoots oneself\" Words that hang heavy on me. Different contexts, same implication. Scary. Very scary. Had this book not been labelled a 'fictionalized memoir', it would have made it to my dark and twisty shelves. But no. Our hero went on to win the Booker Prize and the Nobel Prize for literature. If Astrid or Caroline or Jacqueline Google him, they would know that he made it. ...more Coetzee\u2019s Youth is about aSouth African Mathematics student, who flees his politically instable countryto work as a computer programmer in the United Kingdom of the 1950s. Hisambitions there is to follow his idles TS Eliot and Ezra pound, and become apoet, in England, which was the home of most of the greatest poets of theEnglish language. Instead this work is dull, and England has a greater need for his services as an employee, than for his artistic talent. Poems will not increase the country\u2019 Coetzee\u2019s Youth is about aSouth African Mathematics student, who flees his politically instable countryto work as a computer programmer in the United Kingdom of the 1950s. Hisambitions there is to follow his idles TS Eliot and Ezra pound, and become apoet, in England, which was the home of most of the greatest poets of theEnglish language. Instead this work is dull, and England has a greater need for his services as an employee, than for his artistic talent. Poems will not increase the country\u2019s economy as much as his work as IBM\u2019s programmer, so the main character in that book, called Youth, gives up writing and becomes a fulltime programmer. He accepts the fact that while his writing career could no toffer him much money, and would most probably make him live in Poverty and misery, his nine to five job as a computer programmer, was more surely going to give him a steady income, housing, food, a decent future, and above allindependence. I liked the book a lot because I can identify very much with the main character in the book. I know how it is to be so interested in poetry, surprised about the fact that British are less interested in poetry than expected of a people to whom the greatest poets belonged to, having to work boring jobs to support your almost non existent literary career, and joining creative writing groups that do little to change the situation. flag ...more I believe it was Mary Knott, librarian and friend, who recommended this author to me. In my usual pickiness over fiction, I probably would not have had the joy of reading it had it not been one of my only options to trade for at a hostal we passed through. I am not often a reader of fiction, and so it is sometimes hard for me to describe how I experience it (do I say this in all of my reviews of fiction?). This book is about the 1960s, London, South Africa, and work. But Coetzee has primarily wri I believe it was Mary Knott, librarian and friend, who recommended this author to me. In my usual pickiness over fiction, I probably would not have had the joy of reading it had it not been one of my only options to trade for at a hostal we passed through. I am not often a reader of fiction, and so it is sometimes hard for me to describe how I experience it (do I say this in all of my reviews of fiction?). This book is about the 1960s, London, South Africa, and work. But Coetzee has primarily written about, as titled, youth (especially the mentality of it) and all of its ups and down. The main character is something of a Catcher in the Rye Holden Caulfield, he is many things to sympathize with, judge, laugh at, and sigh for all in one. His thoughts are practical, linked, natural yet irrational. They are big picture idealism that`s hitting a brick wall in the real world. He is a loner, an individual, bitter and grumpy, dreamy and brave. These things are youth, I suppose. My 25-year-old husband and 28-year-old self were amused that a book titled \u201cYouth\u201d is about someone around our age, because we forget we are still in it, but we are a bit of those things still. Hopefully we will remain the best of them, too. I enjoyed Youth. Will I return to Coetzee? I`m not sure, but I will certainly recommend him. ...more This second instalment in Coetzees autobiography tells of a young man making his way to London as a novice computer programmer. The moments of extreme loneliness, uncertainty and poor spirit experienced made me reminisce a lot about my own sojourning in Europe a few years ago. The book provides some interesting reflections on apartheid in South Africa from a foreigners perspective. I am amazed at the ease of Coetzees prose. The honesty and clarity of his writing combined with a strong South Afri This second instalment in Coetzees autobiography tells of a young man making his way to London as a novice computer programmer. The moments of extreme loneliness, uncertainty and poor spirit experienced made me reminisce a lot about my own sojourning in Europe a few years ago. The book provides some interesting reflections on apartheid in South Africa from a foreigners perspective. I am amazed at the ease of Coetzees prose. The honesty and clarity of his writing combined with a strong South African flavour has you turning page after page wanting more. Coetzee seems to have been strongly influenced by the writings of Ezra Pound, most notably The Cantos. Names and insights of other grand masters are strewn over the pages...Baudelaire, Rilke, Rimbaud, etc. Two lines from the book I really enjoyed: - He is ready for romance, ready even for tragedy, ready for anything, in fact, so long as he will be consumed by it and remade. - He knows how easy it is to be bad, how one has only to relax for the badness to emerge. Overall - amazing insights from the mind of this South African Nobel Laureate. ...more Actually more like a 3,5. Coetzee has written his own 'A Moveable Feast', of sorts. This is the more gritty and realistic version, though. For those of us who have or had dreams to become a writer in a big city, I can only recommend this book. It is the account of a young man who wants it all, but who cannot even attain the smallest of consolations. It is about romance and idealism, and the human responsibility to either attain or dilute your dreams. It is also, of course, a vaguely autobiographi Actually more like a 3,5. Coetzee has written his own 'A Moveable Feast', of sorts. This is the more gritty and realistic version, though. For those of us who have or had dreams to become a writer in a big city, I can only recommend this book. It is the account of a young man who wants it all, but who cannot even attain the smallest of consolations. It is about romance and idealism, and the human responsibility to either attain or dilute your dreams. It is also, of course, a vaguely autobiographical account of Coetzee's adolescence, which is interesting in its own right, fictional as it may be. \"Youth\", as this novel is called originally, is a novel which will either resonate with your adolescent desires or that will put you off instantly. For me, it has done the former. Coetzee is a fine writer, in any case. ...more The Times reviewed him as \"one of the finest authors writing in the English language today.\" And I agree. I related to this book so much, the timing is perfect. I too am in the same boat, and was in the same boat at an earlier time in my life. His writing elicits this feeling of soberness because everything he's saying is so raw. Yet he asks so many questions throughout that you're left standing in the spot of the one who has to answer. He elicits empathy of the reader and yet there's a separati The Times reviewed him as \"one of the finest authors writing in the English language today.\" And I agree. I related to this book so much, the timing is perfect. I too am in the same boat, and was in the same boat at an earlier time in my life. His writing elicits this feeling of soberness because everything he's saying is so raw. Yet he asks so many questions throughout that you're left standing in the spot of the one who has to answer. He elicits empathy of the reader and yet there's a separation with each question. It's a simultaneous thing. I've not read anything quite like it. All the while he's inviting you in, there's a bleakness, it's not a comfortable spot to be found. I also really love this style: fictionalised autobiography. It makes so much more sense than a memoir because the reader is included. ...more This novella concerns John, a young man who has graduated from the University of Cape Town with a degree in Mathematics. John is unhappy with the treatment of the black population of South Africa. He also fears the polictical unrest of his native country, and so, moves to England. The story follows John through his youthful dreams of a successful career as a writer. To survive, he takes a dreary job with IBM. He attempts to fashion his life in the style of his favorite writers, but soon finds he This novella concerns John, a young man who has graduated from the University of Cape Town with a degree in Mathematics. John is unhappy with the treatment of the black population of South Africa. He also fears the polictical unrest of his native country, and so, moves to England. The story follows John through his youthful dreams of a successful career as a writer. To survive, he takes a dreary job with IBM. He attempts to fashion his life in the style of his favorite writers, but soon finds he neither has the talent nor the perserverance. This is the first book that I've read by Coetzee. I'll be reading more of his work. ...more My least favorite kind of fiction: the journey into the self without any intention of emerging with a broader message. Perhaps it's because I'm still married to the Victorian novels that are massive social critiques couched in domestic narratives, but I find this kind of psychological, post-Proust fiction deeply unsatisfying. Especially since Coetzee [remember Barbarians and Disgrace?:] has it in him to do more, to take this portrait of a young student and make it \"about\" something: options in t My least favorite kind of fiction: the journey into the self without any intention of emerging with a broader message. Perhaps it's because I'm still married to the Victorian novels that are massive social critiques couched in domestic narratives, but I find this kind of psychological, post-Proust fiction deeply unsatisfying. Especially since Coetzee [remember Barbarians and Disgrace?:] has it in him to do more, to take this portrait of a young student and make it \"about\" something: options in this story would be South Africa, about the postcolonial reverse immigration, or about the monotony of corporate work. As it is, it's just 300 pages of polished, but pointless, prose acrobatics. ...more Yes, I know about the whole appreciation of the elusive genius that Herr Coetzee is, and about that prize they gave him in Stockholm. So obviously quite a few people like his prose. I don't. This book reads like a dishwasher manual, that's how flat and emotionless the sentences are. The struggles of the narrator are superfluous and self-inflicted due to the utterly strange world view permeating the whole book. Basically, I wanted to shake the narrator on every single page and shout \"Get a life!\" Yes, I know about the whole appreciation of the elusive genius that Herr Coetzee is, and about that prize they gave him in Stockholm. So obviously quite a few people like his prose. I don't. This book reads like a dishwasher manual, that's how flat and emotionless the sentences are. The struggles of the narrator are superfluous and self-inflicted due to the utterly strange world view permeating the whole book. Basically, I wanted to shake the narrator on every single page and shout \"Get a life!\" at him. So from that aspect it is an engaging book, I guess. ...more Somehow reading this was interesting and boring at the same time. Probably because while reading this I kept on wondering if maybe Coetzee intentionally wrote his semi-fictional 20-something self as a pretentious and spoiled asshole. I think he did, but that did not change the fact that I felt like I've read this book a million times before. El joven Coetzee, para poder ser poeta, se va de Sud\u00e1frica a Inglaterra. Me gust\u00f3 mucho c\u00f3mo lo cuenta, en especial en esta pregunta que se hace all\u00e1: \"\u00bfPor qu\u00e9 en este pa\u00eds las grandes palabras parecen fuera de lugar?\"<---C>J.M. Coetzee</---C>", "Title": "Youth"},
