{"Comments": "If someone would have told me back in the \u201890s that the way to get <---A>Stephen King</---A> to finish up the Dark Tower series quickly was to hit him with a minivan, I would have been on my way to Maine to rent a Dodge Caravan before you could say, \"Bango Skank was here.\" I confess this not to do more complaining about the long suffering years waiting on some advancement in the Dark Tower books, but to illustrate how utterly obsessed and frustrated I was with this goddamn series. Then King nearly came to the If someone would have told me back in the \u201890s that the way to get Stephen King to finish up the Dark Tower series quickly was to hit him with a minivan, I would have been on my way to Maine to rent a Dodge Caravan before you could say, \"Bango Skank was here.\" I confess this not to do more complaining about the long suffering years waiting on some advancement in the Dark Tower books, but to illustrate how utterly obsessed and frustrated I was with this goddamn series. Then King nearly came to the clearing at the end of the path but instead recovered and cranked out three books like they came off an assembly line to finish the whole thing. Before that, I had pretty much given up hope on ever getting another book,<---M> never mind seeing an end to it</---M>, and King wasn\u2019t doing much to make me change my mind with no news about him even working on another DT book.<---F> And then came the minivan</---F>. Ka works in mysterious ways\u2026. <+++>Wolves of the Calla</+++> had a lot of things to accomplish. It needed to get the story rolling again after years of it laying fallow. It needed to set up the end run of the series. It needed to be a satisfying book aside from moving the overall arc forward. And most importantly, it needed to answer the burning question all Dark Tower fans had: Whatever happened to Father Callahan from \u2018Salem\u2019s Lot ? Oh, wait. I had never asked that question. Oh, well. I found out anyhow and it turned out to be a pretty good part of the story. Roland and his crew have been moving along the path of the Beam towards the Tower, but they seem to have been in a kind of timeless funk. (One of the things I love about the series is that the decay of the Tower has caused both time and space in Roland\u2019s world to become soft and drift. It\u2019s also a nice metaphor for the limbo that characters are in between books.) Just before entering the nastiness of End-World, they find Calla Bryn Sturgis, a farming town with a big problem. Almost all the children born in the Calla are twins. Every twenty years or so, dozens of creatures the townsfolk call Wolves come on horseback and steal one from each set of twins. They take those kids back to Thunderclap, a place the gunslingers have already been warned about, and eventually return them as almost mindless husks who grow to jumbo sizes before dying young. Try to fight or hide your kids, and the Wolves kill everyone who resists instead of just taking half the kids. The Wolves will arrive in a month, but some in the Calla want to fight back this time if the gunslingers will help. Roland's group has other problems too. They\u2019ve been making dream-like excursions to New York in the 1970s and found that the special rose growing in a vacant lot there is in terrible danger. The rose is a key manifestation of the Tower in that world. Roland is convinced that if the rose is destroyed, the Tower falls in his world, too, and there goes your ballgame for all of existence. They have to find a way to get to New York in person and save the rose from those threatening it by protecting the owner of the lot. The gunslingers also meet Callahan, a former Catholic priest last seen in the King-verse fighting vampires in \u2019Salem\u2019s Lot . Callahan has an incredible tale to tell of years spent traveling between worlds and being chased by vampires and other nasty agents of the Crimson King before he wound up in Calla Bryn Sturgis.* Callahan has been hiding an evil object that terrifies him, and he wants Roland to get rid of it by taking it with him when they leave. *(Anyone reading the series who wants some more info about who was chasing Callahan and other bits that come into play here should check out King\u2019s \u2018Low Men in Yellow Coats\u2019 story in his \u2018Hearts in Atlantis\u2019 collection.) If they didn\u2019t have enough on their plate, Susannah\u2019s previous encounter with a demon has left her a little bit pregnant, and her personality is being taken over by the baby\u2019s \u2018mother\u2019, Mia. Pregnant women are known for strange food cravings, but let\u2019s just say that Mia\u2019s are even worse than usual. I love this book partly because it\u2019s the one that got the Dark Tower story back on track and set up everything for the end run to the last book. I also love it just because this is Dark Tower at its best for me. It\u2019s a mash-up of westerns, fantasy, horror and sci-fi. It\u2019s like The Magnificent Seven if Yul Brenner and Steve McQueen had to make multi-dimensional trips and deal with robots and vampires as well as protect the town with their six-guns. Another thing I like about this one is that Eddie, Susannah and Jake are now full-fledged gunslingers and not just apprentices, and King expands on exactly what a gunslinger is. They\u2019re not just killers, although they do that pretty damn well. They\u2019re also diplomats and protectors of the defenseless. It was fun to see Roland\u2019s manipulative political side come out when dealing with the Calla folk. The pregnancy storyline didn\u2019t do much for me in this, but it becomes a key driver of the plot of the next book. All in all, this is one of my favorite of the DT books, and it was King\u2019s clear statement that he was done screwing around and ready to finish this mother. Too bad it took him nearly getting killed to get it done. ...more The 2011 re-read: Roland and his ka-tet of gunslingers ride into Calla Bryn Sturgis, a town with a problem. Once every generation, a gang of marauders called The Wolves ride out of Thunderclap and steal half of the town's children. The ones that return come back roont, or brain-damaged. Can Roland and the others stop the Wolves before Susan gives birth to the demon in her womb? It was a long wait between Wizard and Glass and <+++>Wolves of the Calla</+++>. Was it worth it? Well, does a horse piss where it pl The 2011 re-read: Roland and his ka-tet of gunslingers ride into Calla Bryn Sturgis, a town with a problem. Once every generation, a gang of marauders called The Wolves ride out of Thunderclap and steal half of the town's children. The ones that return come back roont, or brain-damaged. Can Roland and the others stop the Wolves before Susan gives birth to the demon in her womb? It was a long wait between Wizard and Glass and Wolves of the Calla. Was it worth it? Well, does a horse piss where it pleases? The main story of Wolves of the Calla is right out of The Magnificent Seven or Seven Samurai. The gunslingers ride into town, prepare the town, and settle the bad guys' hash. The secondary stories, of which there are several, are what make the book. You've got Father Callahan from Jake, Eddie, and Susannah's world and his fearsome burden, Black Thirteen. You've got someone in town helping the Wolves. You've got Roland and his arthritis. You've got Calvin Tower and the vacant lot containing the Rose. And most of all, you have Susannah's disturbing pregnancy. The gang going todash was one of the more interesting parts of the book and something I'd forgotten about in the years since I read this book the first time. I devoured the book in a day and a half when it first came out so I must not have savored it. There were so many wrinkles to the story that I'd forgotten. I love how the Man in Black doubled back and met Callahan at the Way Station while Roland and Jake were on in trail in The Gunslinger. In the revised edition of The Gunslinger, Roland contemplates putting his quest on hold for a few years and training Jake so he'd have another Gunslinger with him. Would they have met Callahan if they'd let the Man in Black get away? Tantalizing... People say that the long flashback in Wizard and Glass fleshed out Roland's personality. I'd say watching Roland interact with the people of Calla Bryn Sturgis in this book went a lot farther in showing what kind of man Roland was before the world moved on. I can't really say much more for fear of giving too many things away to people who have never read it. If you like the Dark Tower, this one is probably in the top three books of the series. ...more It is as though Stephen King: 1. Took me out to an arid, deserted sepia-toned no-place 2. Lit a sputtering campfire that quickly faded to embers 3. Handcuffed me 4. Sat me down Indian-style across from him 5. Proceeded to narrate to me in a hoarse, bored drawl over a series of three-to-four weeks the world's longest, most uninteresting story while my head lolled back, my lips grew dry with thirst, and my bum ached If this book had been written by any writer other than Stephen King, it would never have It is as though Stephen King: 1. Took me out to an arid, deserted sepia-toned no-place 2. Lit a sputtering campfire that quickly faded to embers 3. Handcuffed me 4. Sat me down Indian-style across from him 5. Proceeded to narrate to me in a hoarse, bored drawl over a series of three-to-four weeks the world's longest, most uninteresting story while my head lolled back, my lips grew dry with thirst, and my bum ached If this book had been written by any writer other than Stephen King, it would never have been published. I firmly believe that an editor, or any discerning eye, never even glanced at this book. I will say that the only redeeming storyline in this entire book is Don (Pere) Callahan's tale. In it, King writes some surprisingly beautiful prose. Callahan's tale - which is interspersed throughout the main storyline - moves in a pace that a story like this should move - like hurried steps on a Manhattan sidewalk, like a nervous glance backward as though someone might be following you. Because guess what? Someone is following you - me, the reader! And if I'm following your little ka-tet through the boring, desolate redneck wonderland of the Calla for 925 freakin' pages - you better move! However, how much does Callahan's story actually move the plot? Very little. It seems to serve two purposes: to reinforce coincidence as \"ka,\" and as an example of the quality of writing of which King is capable, but which you, reader, are being denied throughout the rest of the narrative. Besides the sheer grueling pace of this beast, I had a couple of serious problems with this particular book in the Dark Tower Series: 1. Speech Mannerisms: The language of the Calla is annoying. When Roland's ka-tet continue to use these annoying speech mannerisms in their own \"palaver\" - it comes off as completely ridiculous. Not to mention - exhausting for the reader. 2. Repetition: Certain tropes (Nineteen, for example) are repeated too often. It is bad writing, simply put. While I do not yet understand the \"significance\" of Nineteen, it has been implied that it is significant. So, so significant. Yawn. 3. Mia: Susannah already has three personalities. Giving her another one is simply a rehashing and reheating of King's own once-interesting characterizations. So, if the pace is slow, the plot overdrawn, surely in 925 pages there is room for some serious character development, right? Wrong! Besides Jake Chambers doing a little \"coming of age,\" the rest of the characters remain stagnant throughout the narrative - to the point where they seem like thoughtless renditions of themselves. Even Mia - a brand new personality! - is derivative of Susannah's older personalities and is largely uninteresting. I will also say that I find the subplot of the Callahan's meta-fiction interesting. I find it easy to believe that a quest that traverses time/place/universes, can surely traverse the border between reality and fiction. This development of a fiction-bridging reality could be spectacular if done correctly. Or it could fall off, and go nowhere. I cannot say I have faith for the former. My enjoyment of Callahan's tale is the only reason I gave this book more than one star. That said - I won't give up now. Not with thousands of pages of this series already read. I mean, I have to get to that Tower. But, God, God God - I want to give up. God, this Wolves of The Calla book was long. I felt like I was reading it for nineteen years. ...more May it do ya fine. This book did me real fine. Say thank ya. I must be picking up the language from Calla Bryn Sturgis/Mid-World because it seems lately, I've been saying the speech of the people. I almost said, \"Thankee-sai\" as I was handed my receipt today at the grocery store. \"Say thankee\" I didn't. Anyways, I'll stop being silly. (The grocery store thing is true, however.) What a fan-freaking-tastic book. I really enjoyed the town of Calla Bryn Sturgis, the people, and I LOVED the way they s May it do ya fine. This book did me real fine. Say thank ya. I must be picking up the language from Calla Bryn Sturgis/Mid-World because it seems lately, I've been saying the speech of the people. I almost said, \"Thankee-sai\" as I was handed my receipt today at the grocery store. \"Say thankee\" I didn't. Anyways, I'll stop being silly. (The grocery store thing is true, however.) What a fan-freaking-tastic book. I really enjoyed the town of Calla Bryn Sturgis, the people, and I LOVED the way they spoke. The story in this volume was just about as great as The Waste Lands....ahem...my favorite installment so far. So, I put this tied with The Drawing of the Three as my second favorite installment. Things were kind of mysterious in some parts, such as who was the snitch, and who or what were the wolves. The end with the 'Salem's Lot mention was also pretty brilliant. Father Callahan's part in the quest for the Dark Tower, the voices at the bottom of the cave, and just all of the connections to the number 19, Calvin Tower, the bookstore, etc....just brilliant. King has such a creative mind, and I think this book completely made up for Wizard and Glass for me. Thanks King for delivering a solid book again. It was real trig. Say thank ya. I won't be surprised if Calla Bryn Sturgis/Mid-World speech is here to stay in my English speech. ...more Commela Come Come! Our journey has left so many behind. We have been attacked, beaten, and threatened. Yet, we persevere. Onward wayward travelers. Let us continue on our quest to the Dark Tower . Let us travel safely along the Path of the Beam Our band of crazy MahFahs, led by the craziest MahFah yeh\u2019ve ever encountered- Yours Truly- has seen and done much. I even let Jeff out of his prison luxiourous bedroom at my home to join us in this read. I did keep him on a leash- he\u2019s not to be trusted. Bac Commela Come Come! Our journey has left so many behind. We have been attacked, beaten, and threatened. Yet, we persevere. Onward wayward travelers. Let us continue on our quest to the Dark Tower . Let us travel safely along the Path of the Beam Our band of crazy MahFahs, led by the craziest MahFah yeh\u2019ve ever encountered- Yours Truly- has seen and done much. I even let Jeff out of his prison luxiourous bedroom at my home to join us in this read. I did keep him on a leash- he\u2019s not to be trusted. Back to the review: Roland and his Tet are on the Path of the Beam in search of the Dark Tower. After surviving the Starkblast and hearing another story from Roland\u2019s past the gang is ready to move forward. But they\u2019re being watched by the folken of the Calla. Which Calla? Calla Bryn Sturgis. As much as Roland\u2019s Tet would love to take a different route, Roland explains to them why they can\u2019t. The duty of the gunslinger is to stand for those who cannot. Stand and be true, aye. He says true. What they find in the Calla is horrifying. Wolves come on horseback once every 26 years to take one from every set of twins. In our world that might not be so bad- but in the Calla twins are as common as Canadian pennies in a handful of change. What\u2019s worse than that? The wolves send them back once they\u2019re done with them and that twin is forever ROONT; a drooling buffoon capable** of mostly just grunts and giggles. One of my favorite characters became a favorite because of this book- Pere Callahan. His story in Salem\u2019s Lot was not finished. It is continued here in the Calla. Calla. Callahan. But will the other folken listen to his pleas? Can they be convinced that now is the time to stop the wolves? Will Jeff ever get out of my basement for good? This story is laid out beautifully. You are getting just enough information to keep turning those pages. You\u2019re being teased with information. Your leaders are whispering and even you don\u2019t know what they\u2019re saying. There\u2019s robots, twins, taters and gravy, time travel and talking caves. YERBUGGER. Wolves of the Calla is a great read and is filled with a language that is sure to make any buddy read more interesting. I just can\u2019t wait to continue this journey with my Ka-Tet. ...more A prequel to a sequel or a sequel to a prequel of a previous Dark Tower \u201creview\u201d. Both women\u2019s hands moved like a blur as they obliterated their targets - moving and stationary. Their pistols were still smoking as they were returned them to their holsters. \u201cWell met,\u201d said the fat rancher, as he moved towards the taller of the two women, \u201cand mighty impressive.\u201d \u201cThankee, Sai\u201d, said the taller of the two blonde katet members and by her calm and authoritative bearing, obviously the group\u2019s dinh. \u201cI\u2019m A prequel to a sequel or a sequel to a prequel of a previous Dark Tower \u201creview\u201d. Both women\u2019s hands moved like a blur as they obliterated their targets - moving and stationary. Their pistols were still smoking as they were returned them to their holsters. \u201cWell met,\u201d said the fat rancher, as he moved towards the taller of the two women, \u201cand mighty impressive.\u201d \u201cThankee, Sai\u201d, said the taller of the two blonde katet members and by her calm and authoritative bearing, obviously the group\u2019s dinh. \u201cI\u2019m known as Quick Draw and this here\u201d, indicating her straight shooting partner, \u201cis the Rootin\u2019 Tootin\u2019 Pistol Packin\u2019 one. Her name used to be longer, but folks got confused, so we narrowed it.\u201d \u201cI reckon if yer willin\u2019, we could use yer help against them evil clowns, who\u2019ve been rustlin\u2019 our kittens and turnin\u2019 em into six-legged muties that are lazy and can\u2019t bathe themselves.\u201d \u201cJenkies! As gunslingers in the Eld tradition, we\u2019d gladly be of service to ya.\u201d The rancher eyed the snoring lump, sleeping face down in the dirt. \u201cIf it do ya, can I see the big cully do some shootin?\u201d \u201cHe\u2019s a decent shot when he\u2019s sober\u2026.\u201d Quick Draw\u2019s voice trailed off. Rootin\u2019 Tootin\u2019 nudged the slumbering figure with her boot, softly at first, but when that didn\u2019t have any effect, she kicked him much harder. \u201cN-O-O-M. that spells moon backwards\u201d, blubbered the hulking figure as he scrambled to his feet. \u201cWhat in tarnation is he goin\u2019 on bout? Is he one of them roont galoots? \"Probably not, sai, he\u2019s sleepin\u2019 off a two day drunk. Or a devil grass bender. We ain\u2019t entirely sure.\u201d She turned toward the blinking, half-asleep man and said, \u201cKindly, do some shootin\u2019 for us, Jumpin\u2019. There\u2019s a cactus over yonder you can shoot and remember the face of yer father.\u201d \u201cYer confusin\u2019 me! My daddy could ha\u2019 been the stableman or the deputy or a stuffy guy.\u201d \u201cMore than likely the town idjit\u201d, muttered Pistol Packin\u2019. \u201cJes pick a cactus and shoot.\u201d Jumpin\u2019 shakily raised his pistol and let loose a shot. The shot missed the cactus by a wide margin, ricocheted off a nearby boulder and lodged itself in the fat rancher\u2019s left buttock. \u201cI cry your pardon,\u201d blurted the shooter. As the group behind the rancher started muttering angrily, the two blondes hurriedly grabbed the big man set him on his horse and galloped quickly away ignoring the furious shouts from behind them. \u201cKa?\u201d came out like a belch from Jumpin\u2019. \u201cI\u2019ll give ya yer fill of ka later,\u201d shouted Quick Draw. ...more And so it was, three and a half years ago, that I stopped reading Stephen King altogether. Having begun him at age 12, and having read every single book up to that point, by my mid-twenties I was definitely reading his new stuff out of habit alone. But I was still looking forward to finishing the \"Dark Tower\" series. And I never did. Because I read this book, which contains more filler than I thought you could put in 700 pages, and which confirmed that King had disappeared so far up his own ass t And so it was, three and a half years ago, that I stopped reading Stephen King altogether. Having begun him at age 12, and having read every single book up to that point, by my mid-twenties I was definitely reading his new stuff out of habit alone. But I was still looking forward to finishing the \"Dark Tower\" series. And I never did. Because I read this book, which contains more filler than I thought you could put in 700 pages, and which confirmed that King had disappeared so far up his own ass that he had to connect everything he'd written in the previous 30+ years to this magical world that became less and less interesting every time he expanded it. Thus I moved on with my life. ...more I didn't really realize until I'd picked up this book that I was kind of in a reading funk for a bit. Either that, or this book is just that good. Either way, I had a new life of reading when I picked up Wolves of the Calla. I was sucked right back into the path of the Dark Tower, right along one of the 6 beams. And it's not just sucked in, but I was able to pick back up after a year or two with only my rusty memory of the previous 5 (counting Wind through the Keyhole) books. Wolves is just what I didn't really realize until I'd picked up this book that I was kind of in a reading funk for a bit. Either that, or this book is just that good. Either way, I had a new life of reading when I picked up Wolves of the Calla. I was sucked right back into the path of the Dark Tower, right along one of the 6 beams. And it's not just sucked in, but I was able to pick back up after a year or two with only my rusty memory of the previous 5 (counting Wind through the Keyhole) books. Wolves is just what I needed and as much as it moves the plot forward, there's plenty more \"stories\" to be told. It's not quite as much of a stall as in that last book, Wizard and Glass, but it's quite lengthy. But yet again, as in W&G, I loved every minute of it. Back stories have consistently been my favorite parts and King has a gift for backstory and every character has one, that's why they're so rich and why you care so much when they get ripped away from you. In Wolves I was pretty into both the past and the present, you could count them equal. I'd heard things about this book, that's it's sub-par compared to the previous books, but I didn't find that to be the case. I had a great time and only wanted more. Some commentary on the ending: (view spoiler) [ I did think the ending was a bit anti-climactic, but then again we were warned previously that when guns get pulled out, it can all be over in a few minutes. I expected, however, a bit more. All the lead up with how terrible the wolves are and then it's over with hardly a casualty. Then again, this just shows how studly the gunslingers are. I also enjoyed that the planning really did pay off for them. All the time researching and listening to stories and they really were able to prepare well. (hide spoiler) ] I can't leave this review without pointing out the dialect. I think that's one of the greatest parts of this book. I wanted to use it with everyone around me, it sets such a great ambiance about the area and brings you right into it, yer bugger! Well played sai King, I can't wait for more. I'd forgotten the face of my father by waiting so long to reenter the path. Thankee sai for this reminder. 4.5 out of 5 Stars (Just under W&G and TW) ...more OH RIZA! I think this is my favorite (so far) of all the Dark Tower series of books. If you were to combine a Western film with the TV show LOST with Back to the Future with a Horror film, you would *almost* have the vibe achieved here. There is hardly anything I can say that will not spoil at least PART of the book, so I will simply sing its praises. And that ENDING! King continues to BLOW MY MIND. The way that EVERYTHING he has ever written seems to somehow serve the Dark Tower? Incredible. Th OH RIZA! I think this is my favorite (so far) of all the Dark Tower series of books. If you were to combine a Western film with the TV show LOST with Back to the Future with a Horror film, you would *almost* have the vibe achieved here. There is hardly anything I can say that will not spoil at least PART of the book, so I will simply sing its praises. And that ENDING! King continues to BLOW MY MIND. The way that EVERYTHING he has ever written seems to somehow serve the Dark Tower? Incredible. The tone of this one (despite all the battle and death) was more light hearted than the last book, and you fall in love with Roland and his ka-tet all over again. Also, having FATHER CALLAHAN FROM 'SALEM'S LOT' join the cast of characters is wickedly awesome. WARNING= do not read if you haven't read the previous 4 books or you'll be *ahem*...LOST. 5 Stars, if it do ya.-Jen from Quebec :0) ...more That face you make when a book has a horrible cliffhanger: Why, Stephen King, why ?!?! Well, anyway, no review for this. It's suffice for me to say it's a million times better than book 4 (that one's a mess - I didn't even finish it). The story gets back to the quest to find the Dark Tower, I'm finally warming up to the characters and in few words, I liked it. A little warning for people who want to read this series: Read King's 'Salem's Lot first. The destiny of one character is told here and you'l That face you make when a book has a horrible cliffhanger: Why, Stephen King, why ?!?! Well, anyway, no review for this. It's suffice for me to say it's a million times better than book 4 (that one's a mess - I didn't even finish it). The story gets back to the quest to find the Dark Tower, I'm finally warming up to the characters and in few words, I liked it. A little warning for people who want to read this series: Read King's 'Salem's Lot first. The destiny of one character is told here and you'll have no clue as to who he is. It's not crucial to the plot, but I assure you that even if you don't like SL, you'll go LOL when that character appears. Also, another LOL for all the Harry Potter amd Star Wars references. They were especially better when the characters were clueless - somehow that made them cute. For example, did you know that according to Eddie HP is probably another Marvil comic from the 1990's? Anyway, I'm glad I didn't abandon the series in book 4. It's not the best I've read (not even close), but it's entertaining. Let's see when I find the time to read book 6. ...more \u201cFirst comes smiles, then lies. Last is gunfire.\" - Roland Deschain, of Gilead Dark Tower reviews : #1 The Gunslinger #2 The Drawing of the Three #3 The Waste Lands #4 Wizard and Glass #5 Wolves of the Calla #6 Song of Susannah #7 The Dark Tower There's a lot going on here. Luckily, it has the page count so nothing feels rushed. Because there's a new character (really an old one if you read a lot of King) and his backstory, and travel between worlds, and a demonic fetus, and a child-stealing evil to vanquish... Plenty to keep me avidly listening through 22 discs of audiobook. That new-but-now character is Father Callahan, late of 'Salem's Lot . I wasn't exactly clamoring to see this guy again, and I doubt very many other people were. But There's a lot going on here. Luckily, it has the page count so nothing feels rushed. Because there's a new character (really an old one if you read a lot of King) and his backstory, and travel between worlds, and a demonic fetus, and a child-stealing evil to vanquish... Plenty to keep me avidly listening through 22 discs of audiobook. That new-but-now character is Father Callahan, late of 'Salem's Lot . I wasn't exactly clamoring to see this guy again, and I doubt very many other people were. But here he is, and you know what? His story is one of the most compelling things about this book. I really like Callahan as a character, and his story only made me like him more. For me, it was interesting to Roland at work as an actual Gunslinger. It's a side of the role we haven't really seen before. Sure, we've seen bits and pieces, but never the whole thing all in one time and place. It's kind of cool to see Roland's politician side, and he puts it to very good use here in winning over the townsfolk. It's kind of interesting to me how the vast majority of the book is planning, while the actual battle goes relatively quickly. That was also the case in the previous book, and it must be intentional. Maybe King doesn't particularly like drawn out action scenes, but it also seems like something that would define a Gunslinger: the battle is all in the planning. I do not shoot with my hand; he who shoots with his hand has forgotten the face of his father. I shoot with my mind. Maybe this will make the book slow going for some, but I was fascinated the whole way. Speaking of, I want to make an aside to specifically say how much I liked that, though there's a divide in the town, the ones who are against accepting Roland's help are not portrayed as being in any way evil. Sure, they're wrong, but from their limited point of view they have legitimate concerns: if Roland and his ka-tet are unable to stop the Wolves from stealing half of their children, the Wolves might steal all of them, and raze the town, and kill all left standing. It would have been so easy to show them as stupid, as evil, as traitors. But by and large, they aren't, and that's a far more difficult thing to write. The todash elements are also very interesting. It's the major fantasy element in this book, and I liked that there was more than one way to go todash. Revisiting New York at this point was actually kind of jarring, as well it should have been. And even more so when the vagrant dead show up. At this point, is each book in the series going to be better than the last? I have no problem with that, though that's an increasingly difficult task. ...more Although many readers of this series liked this volume the least, I found it to be the most moving and exciting of them all. It appears to be a departure from the path of the Beam but in truth it is just another part of the journey of the Ka-Tet and very much on the path to the Dark Tower, bringing them closer. It is well tied in to all the past books, and it is in this book that we meet Father Callahan, from Salem's Lot. It was while reading this book that I completely fell in love with the cha Although many readers of this series liked this volume the least, I found it to be the most moving and exciting of them all. It appears to be a departure from the path of the Beam but in truth it is just another part of the journey of the Ka-Tet and very much on the path to the Dark Tower, bringing them closer. It is well tied in to all the past books, and it is in this book that we meet Father Callahan, from Salem's Lot. It was while reading this book that I completely fell in love with the characters. When I read this the tears started and I was covered in chills. Roland, The Gunslinger: \"For Gilead and the Calla!\" he roared. \"Now, gunslingers! Now, you Sisters of Oriza! Now, now! Kill them! No Quarter! Kill them all!\" If you have read this book, you know what I mean! I am going to buy the audio version of this book just so that I can listen to it in my car. AWESOME book! ...more Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews Wolves of the Calla was one of those novels that it took me a while to actually \"get into\" (A four month hiatus between reading attempts to be precise.), but once I did, it was enjoyable. Not a masterpiece like several of the preceding Dark Tower novels, but interesting enough for me to continue the journey to the Dark Tower with Roland Deschain, <---C>Eddie Dean</---C>, Susannah Dean, Jake Chambers, and Oy. The story itself begins with Roland and his ka-tet moving s Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews Wolves of the Calla was one of those novels that it took me a while to actually \"get into\" (A four month hiatus between reading attempts to be precise.), but once I did, it was enjoyable. Not a masterpiece like several of the preceding Dark Tower novels, but interesting enough for me to continue the journey to the Dark Tower with Roland Deschain, Eddie Dean, Susannah Dean, Jake Chambers, and Oy. The story itself begins with Roland and his ka-tet moving slowly but steadily along the Beam towards the shadowy edifice of the Dark Tower. Now, however, there is an undercurrent of desperation beginning to rear its ugly head among the group, since time is passing more quickly than earlier in their journey and the Beams, which hold the multiverse together, are beginning to deteriorate more rapidly. So it is while dealing with this growing sense of impending doom that the five friends are unexpectedly approached by a group from Calla Bryn Sturgis. The \u201cCallas\u201d - as the locals call their region of the world - is the final bastion of humanity before one enters the death and doom of End World. Calla Bryn Sturgis itself being one of the small farm town in this tranquil region. Here farmers, merchants, and ordinary folk live their lives to the fullest, slowly forgetting about the world that was before and focusing on tending their fields and raising their children, who always seem to be twins. Yet even in this land of idyllic farms, the horror of the world \u201cmoving on\u201d cannot be completely forgotten, because every twenty years or so the Wolves come for their harvest of horror as they reap the children of the Callas! The Calla folk do not know why the Wolves come. They just do. Nor do they understand what the wolves do with their stolen offspring. All that they know is that the Wolves take them into End World to Thunderclap, and when they return by train, they are near mindless caricatures of themselves, fated to grow into huge adults that die young and in pain. And soon the Wolves will return to Calla Bryn Sturgis. At least, that is what Andy the Robot says, and he would know, because he has lived among the farmers from their grandfather\u2019s grandfather time and, somehow, Andy always knows when the Wolves are destined to return. Yet knowing the date of their children\u2019s abductions does little good to the common folk of the Calla. They are not warriors and cannot hope to stand against the wondrous weapons of their persecutors. But now, Roland has led his gunslingers among them, and it must be fate that has brought such an unlooked for group to the Callas when the Wolves are soon to reappear. And so, the people of the Callas come to the ka-tet begging them to fight off the Wolves and save the children of the Callas! From this The Magnificent Seven beginning, Stephen King concocts a tale that has a pinch of western, a dash of scifi, a dollop of apocalyptic, a splash of fantasy, and a drizzle of horror. He takes his \u201cConstant Reader\u201d from the green fields of the Come-come-commala Calla, say thankya, to the dream-like visage of 1970s New York City. He introduces them to the gunslingers as diplomats and protectors of the defenseless while reintroducing us to a vampire killing companion from old, Father Callahan: a former Catholic priest last seen in Salem\u2019s Lot . There are talking robots, zombies, and vampires as well as references to popular culture such as Harry Potter and Marvel comic books. Indeed, this novel is a psychedelic wonderland of variety; sure to fit the fancy of most any reader of speculative fiction. Do ya ken? But while Wolves of the Calla is a novel that excels in its lively, creepy and fun narrative, it did not live up to its promise as the book to begin the process of straightening out the mess that was The Dark Tower series plot line. In fact, there were more new plots begun in this story than old ones finished. Does that mean, this book is \u201cbad\u201d or not worth reading? Absolutely not. It is a fine tale that was a joy to read. But . . . The problem with this book, in my opinion, is that due to Mr. King\u2019s ending of the series this novel has no meaning. Like an old song says, this novel is a \u201cCab fare to nowhere.\u201d A story that is a \u201cWhite line to an exit sign.\u201d A \u201cLocked door on a candy store.\u201d So if \u2013 like me and the kid from The Incredibles movie \u2013 you are hoping for \u201cSomething amazing, I guess\u201d that begins to wrap up The Dark Tower series and shed light on all its mysteries, this one is probably not going to satisfy you. ...more 8.5/10 Another stonking effort from the Dark Tower series in a book that has left me drooling at the prospect of what the last two books hold. Initially it seemed like a slow read, this might not be so much the book as external factors making me unable to get chance to read it, and it plodded along and then all of a sudden I was swept up with it all and was engrossed and the last few hundred pages flew by. I would go as far as saying this is in my top two DT books but the slowness of the start me 8.5/10 Another stonking effort from the Dark Tower series in a book that has left me drooling at the prospect of what the last two books hold. Initially it seemed like a slow read, this might not be so much the book as external factors making me unable to get chance to read it, and it plodded along and then all of a sudden I was swept up with it all and was engrossed and the last few hundred pages flew by. I would go as far as saying this is in my top two DT books but the slowness of the start means that it can\u2019t pip \u201cThe Drawing of the Three\u201d for me but there were plenty of positives that would mean I would gladly look forward to re-reading this in my, inevitable, series re-read. The nuts and bolts of the plot was basically the Gunslingers defending a helpless village from invaders who would take their children. This is a very basic view of the main plot but that isn\u2019t the main attraction here. All the sub stories are what adds to the story here and make for a great read. I\u2019d read some negative reviews of the story saying it took too long and was all filler but I would disagree with the filler part of that argument and say all the extra bits, whilst maybe at first glance, don\u2019t appear to add anything to the story but when the whole thing is looked at it\u2019s clear that they add to the tale overall and make it a great story. I feel reading some of King\u2019s other works first may have helped, such as 'Salem's Lot as there is a main character drawn straight from that novel but I\u2019ve never come across due to me never reading that one yet. The ending leaves it open as to where the story can go but I\u2019ll be keen to read the next book and see what comes from the ending of this book. Overall, a really good read adding to a series that is slowly climbing up my list of all-time favourites. If you like this try: \u201cThe Ecstasy of Gold\u201d by Metallica ...more If this series was written by any less of a writer, we would throw it to the side as the most ridiculous of fan-fiction. We would roll our eyes at the lightsabers and the demon sex and the trains that talk and the bear with a radar dish on its head and the people who somehow still have grenades when most people don't own guns and the magic door opened with a wooden key that they knew how to make just because they did. Actually, all of the times they just know things would normally get this disre If this series was written by any less of a writer, we would throw it to the side as the most ridiculous of fan-fiction. We would roll our eyes at the lightsabers and the demon sex and the trains that talk and the bear with a radar dish on its head and the people who somehow still have grenades when most people don't own guns and the magic door opened with a wooden key that they knew how to make just because they did. Actually, all of the times they just know things would normally get this disregarded as complete tripe. But somehow King makes it work. King somehow makes completely ridiculous... everything, actually... and makes me not care that it is insane. I can think of very few writers* who could pull off writing these situations and not only have readers not throw it away, but consider it great. I have no idea how he does it, but I am now about 2500 pages into this series, don't even like half the main characters, and would start book six today if the group I'm reading these with wanted to. * Actually Gaiman is the only one that comes to mind, but if pressed, I could probably think of another one or two ...more And now, the long waiting game begins. Who's gonna cave first, and post a review? Your move, Jeff & Delee! The Ka-Tet of Nineteen\u2019s skills are requested when a gang of marauders threaten an entire generation of townsfolk. As Gunslingers, Roland and company are unable to refuse those who seek their assistance so they quickly begin preparing for battle. Susannah Dean, pregnant with a demon\u2019s child, has yet another personality arise during her sleep. Her name is \u201cMia\u201d and she may prove to be very, very dangerous. There is a lot going on in King\u2019s fifth entry of his acclaimed Dark Tower saga. Susannah\u2019s o The Ka-Tet of Nineteen\u2019s skills are requested when a gang of marauders threaten an entire generation of townsfolk. As Gunslingers, Roland and company are unable to refuse those who seek their assistance so they quickly begin preparing for battle. Susannah Dean, pregnant with a demon\u2019s child, has yet another personality arise during her sleep. Her name is \u201cMia\u201d and she may prove to be very, very dangerous. There is a lot going on in King\u2019s fifth entry of his acclaimed Dark Tower saga. Susannah\u2019s ongoing mental issues are straining the relationship between Roland and his pupils while the enormity of their duty as gunslingers lingers in the background. Stress is at an all time high and doubt is running through their veins like blood. Fortunately for those involved, situations like this can help to shape a person and while Roland\u2019s Ka-Tet is undoubtedly united, they are far from the force they are destined to become. While I\u2019ve read a good chunk of Uncle Stevie\u2019s yarns, I have yet to check out Salem\u2019s Lot. With Father Callahan playing such an integral role in the novel, I couldn\u2019t help but feel I may have missed a few things here and there. However, King does a good job expanding Callahan\u2019s story so there\u2019s a chance it\u2019s all covered. I would have hated to be reading this series as the books were released. The wait between The Wastelands and Wizard and Glass had been six years. The wait between Glass and Wolves was another six years! Two DT books in a combined twelve years. Too long! Thankfully, I can grab books six and seven whenever I damn well feel like it. A luxury for sure. ...more This series is fucking perfect. And that Epilogue. Literally; holy shit. That's all I have to say on the matter. Long days and pleasant nights. Yet another excellent addition to the Dark Tower series. Before I address the book, I want to say that, as a man, I love Stephen King. In the afterward, when he says he will be donating the profits of the audio book to Frank Muller's family, and explains why...I know King is wealthy, and can certainly afford the gesture, but how many people in a position to help others actually DO it? I am working my way through the series on audio this time and it seems like an almost different journey when lis Yet another excellent addition to the Dark Tower series. Before I address the book, I want to say that, as a man, I love Stephen King. In the afterward, when he says he will be donating the profits of the audio book to Frank Muller's family, and explains why...I know King is wealthy, and can certainly afford the gesture, but how many people in a position to help others actually DO it? I am working my way through the series on audio this time and it seems like an almost different journey when listened to! The reader (who I love) puts emphasis on things I may not have in my mind's voice. That can change so much. What doesn't change is how very much I care for these characters. I love them and am hurt by their hurts, disappointed by their disappointments and angered when they are. Still five stars. Will that ever change? Never in life. Thank you big big Sai King. 2009- This may be my favorite installment yet. It kept the Western Fairy tale feel of W&G which I loved so much. The folken are familiar, but not quite what our old Westerners were. I like that familiarity, because it makes it so much easier to just lose myself in their world. I can believe they really exist somewhere. Only King could write himself into his own book without seeming egotistical. It's all a big circle with intertwining spokes. It makes sense that everything that's come before has bearing on the quest. EVERYTHING is important. EVERYTHING is relevant. He's brilliant, because as I read, I want to go back and read all that's come before. I want to be certain I haven't missed any references or resemblances that will have bearing on what's to come. I don't think a reader starting out with the DT series as their first King has a snowball's chance in hell of resisting the temptation of reading his other work. He knows how to grab a reader. Grab, and hold on tight! ...more Re-read August 2016 In the fifth installment of The Dark Tower , all the elements King has borrowed from cinema and literature are clearer than ever. While I usually find this aggravating, when authors use so many borrowed things in their work that is, King never lacks originality. In fact, it's crazy how he uses all those (stolen, one might say) elements and still stays true to his original work. That's a talent of its own, if you ask me. Far West scenery, unborn demon babies, robots and doors tha Re-read August 2016 In the fifth installment of The Dark Tower , all the elements King has borrowed from cinema and literature are clearer than ever. While I usually find this aggravating, when authors use so many borrowed things in their work that is, King never lacks originality. In fact, it's crazy how he uses all those (stolen, one might say) elements and still stays true to his original work. That's a talent of its own, if you ask me. Far West scenery, unborn demon babies, robots and doors that lead to parallel worlds. All these combine to make a hell of a novel that could almost stand alone. Since it's a part of The Dark Tower though, it's fair to say that it gives the series a significant momentum as it reaches The End. Nearly 8 years after my first read, I'm dazzled in more than one ways. ...more So I decided it was time to finally write my review- because apparently Dan 2.0 can't write one until either Jeff or I write one first. Yup...our 2.0 likes his excuses. I think his cowboy name should be changed to Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan. Buddy read with- Quick Draw Stepheny , Jumpin' Jeff , Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan , Calamity Bev , Bronco Bustin' Black Jackin' Jason , and Cahootin' Christopher [image error] I can't believe our journey is almost finishe So I decided it was time to finally write my review- because apparently Dan 2.0 can't write one until either Jeff or I write one first. Yup...our 2.0 likes his excuses. I think his cowboy name should be changed to Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan. Buddy read with- Quick Draw Stepheny , Jumpin' Jeff , Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan , Calamity Bev , Bronco Bustin' Black Jackin' Jason , and Cahootin' Christopher [image error] I can't believe our journey is almost finished (only 2 more books)...and my guess is the fun is over and the heartbreak is about to begin. Time after time I have tried to get our fearless leader to spill the beans on whether my two favorites come out alive- but she is not going to budge- and knowing King like I do- I have a feeling I am going to bawl like a baby before this is over...It is one thing to lose beloved characters after 700-800 pages...but after putting in 7.5 x that...I may be inconsolable. No offence BABE- but I would stab Harry Potter in the throat if it meant Oy and Jake could live forever...and you may want to change your name and pack a bag to Mexico- if ANYTHING happens to them. Just remember...you brought this on yourself ;) [image error] WOLVES OF CALLA begins in the farming village of Calla Bryn Sturgis. The townsfolk need Roland and his ka-tet's help to battle against the Wolves of Thunderclap. Once a generation they take one child from each pair of twins, and when returned- they are \"roont\" RUINED. Andy the town's robot alerts the town that the wolves will be arriving in one months time. [image error] Father Donald Callahan is one of the townsfolk asking for help- and there is a story to tell of how he traveled from Salem's Lot to The Calla...a story that makes Roland realize that maybe the ka-tet needs to bring Donald along- before they can move forward to their own goal of finding THE DARK TOWER. Along the way...there will be wolves... [image error] There will be story telling...excitement, and chaos. Friendships are tested.... [image error] ...and there will be dancing...OH YES...there will be dancing. ...more 6.0 stars. In a long career which includes more great books and best sellers than I can count, \"The Dark Tower\" series is Stephen King's masterpiece. Even if you don't like Stephen King, you will love this series as it is one of the best Fantasy series ever written. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! Nominee: Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel (2003) Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2003) For a long time, this was my favorite book of the series. I love it, the way it just ratchets up the tension, bit by bit, and how we get to know these people, this town and the horror that they have lived with every generation for over 100 years. This is where the series really becomes amazing. I love Drawing of the Three and The Wastelands, but Wolves of the Calla takes these characters that we've had several books' worth of time to get used to and shows us each of them in a different light. I For a long time, this was my favorite book of the series. I love it, the way it just ratchets up the tension, bit by bit, and how we get to know these people, this town and the horror that they have lived with every generation for over 100 years. This is where the series really becomes amazing. I love Drawing of the Three and The Wastelands, but Wolves of the Calla takes these characters that we've had several books' worth of time to get used to and shows us each of them in a different light. I love how gentle Roland can be, and is, when he's dealing with the Calla kids. I love how hard Jake is when he learns a secret that could tear a friendship and a family and a community apart. I love how ruthless Eddie is when he stands to protect the weak. These people are no longer just characters that think they could be gunslingers one day, they ARE Gunslingers. They all, each on their own, prove that, and the way they do gives me shivers. I love progression of the story in this one, and how the threads are all starting to come together. You might think that this is a little late in the game, for things to only start coming together in book 5 of a 7 book series, but believe me, the journey here is as important as where we're going, if not more so. It's the journey, and the traveling companions, that I love more than anything. I listened to the audio of this book again, and this one was read by George Guidall. In some ways, I preferred his reading to Frank Muller's, but in many others, I thought it was inferior. I loved, LOVED, Guidall's Roland. I'm not sure just how to explain it, but rather than making Roland sound like Christian Bale's Batman voice, he sounds mature, strong and sure. He sounds like Roland. I always thought that Muller's Roland was a bit too growlly and drawly. But Guidall's was damn near perfect. Unfortunately, it was quite the opposite with Eddie. Muller's Eddie was perfect. The way Eddie (through Frank) said \"Rolund\" was perfect, his Brooklyn accent (to my ears anyway) was perfect. Guidall's Eddie sounded like... Joe Pesci almost. High-pitched, nasally, annoying. I got used to it as I went along, but I found myself missing Muller's Eddie. A lot. Susannah and Jake were OK. I thought that they sounded a bit too similar, and Callahan a little too elderly and feeble, but I can live with those. I did quite like the Calla accents though, especially Rosalita. He voiced her quite differently than I heard her (although I never really gave her much accent in my head, she was just kind of Generic Side-Character Female Voice), but I thought Guidall did pretty well with her accent. Overall, I thought that Guidell did a good job, but if I could have Guidell's Roland and Muller's Eddie, I could die happy. :) ...more \u00abPrimero vienen las sonrisas. Luego las mentiras. Finalmente las balas\u00bb. No me gust\u00f3 tanto como los restantes de la saga ; aun as\u00ed sigue siendo bueno, solo que los otros de la serie son una maravilla y este es m\u00e1s pausado y, en mi opini\u00f3n, bastante insustancial (excepto sus \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas). Para m\u00ed es m\u00e1s largo de lo que deber\u00eda ser, lo que provoc\u00f3 que en varias partes se me haya hecho pesado e inapetente. Escrib\u00ed demasiado sobre lo malo que es este tomo pero tiene mis tres estrellas: esta part \u00abPrimero vienen las sonrisas. Luego las mentiras. Finalmente las balas\u00bb. No me gust\u00f3 tanto como los restantes de la saga ; aun as\u00ed sigue siendo bueno, solo que los otros de la serie son una maravilla y este es m\u00e1s pausado y, en mi opini\u00f3n, bastante insustancial (excepto sus \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas). Para m\u00ed es m\u00e1s largo de lo que deber\u00eda ser, lo que provoc\u00f3 que en varias partes se me haya hecho pesado e inapetente. Escrib\u00ed demasiado sobre lo malo que es este tomo pero tiene mis tres estrellas: esta parte de la historia tiene una atm\u00f3sfera de misterio que me cautiv\u00f3 desde su primera carilla; tambi\u00e9n un ritmo, aunque lento, absorbente. Otro ingrediente que me gust\u00f3 mucho es la estructura del relato: un pueblo entre los vericuetos de bosques y monta\u00f1as, con gentes pasivas que se dejan hacer da\u00f1o por un miedo a un da\u00f1o mayor, y, para cambiar esa convenci\u00f3n, llega el Ka-tet con ideas de resistencia y contraataque que desataran diversas opiniones y conflictos. Creo que todos hemos nacido con un agujero en el coraz\u00f3n y que vamos por ah\u00ed buscando a la persona que pueda llenarlo. Les recomiendo tener le\u00eddo Salem's Lot antes de abordar esta novela , ya que, les puedo asegurar, lo van a disfrutar mucho m\u00e1s que yo en ese caso (yo no lo hab\u00eda le\u00eddo). ...more https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201... The final three books in the Dark Tower saga are among Stephen King's most divisive works. Written in the years immediately after getting run over on an afternoon walk, the three novels in question\u2014 Wolves of the Calla, Song of Susannah, and The Dark Tower \u2014 show King entering and settling into an existentialism period in his writing, which makes perfect sense. The guy was well into his 50s when he came face-to-face with death. That would make anyone think. His ruminations on life and death form The final three books in the Dark Tower saga are among Stephen King's most divisive works. Written in the years immediately after getting run over on an afternoon walk, the three novels in question\u2014 Wolves of the Calla, Song of Susannah, and The Dark Tower \u2014 show King entering and settling into an existentialism period in his writing, which makes perfect sense. The guy was well into his 50s when he came face-to-face with death. That would make anyone think. His ruminations on life and death form a thread that runs through almost all of his 21st century output, making it a bit more nuanced and contemplative than his earlier work. This began with From A Buick 8 and a few stories in Everything's Eventual, but nowhere is it more apparent than in this story, the fifth entry in the Dark Tower cycle. While Wolves of the Calla is about the Ka-tet \u2014 Roland, Susannah, Eddie, Jake, and Oy \u2014 coming to the rescue of the folken of Calla Bryn Sturgis, on a subtextual level this story is all about saving Stephen King. The Tower is falling, and its creator is in grave danger. Needless to say, this story is very meta. The previous books in this series contain casual references to and appearances of characters from other King stories, but this book plunges the reader right into Stephen King's \u2014 and our \u2014 own universe, making King a very important player here and in the two novels to follow. He is the characters' creator, and seeing them coming to grips with that is uncomfortable and intriguing. It makes perfect sense \u2014 after all, this is a series about not just one universe but all the universes \u2014 and I love King's decision to insert himself into the story. It's bloody genius. Some fans don't like it . . . some even hate it, claiming the three final novels of this series fall apart because of this artistic choice. I get it; it's a valid complaint. I love it, though. This book was written by a very different man than the one who wrote Wizard and Glass, which must be kept in mind. The writer of Wizard and Glass would not have put himself in the fiction, methinks . . . But the writer of Wolves certainly did. So . . . The question bears asking: would Wolves of the Calla have existed if King hadn't been involved in his accident? Maybe. Possibly. It's almost impossible to know for sure. I lean toward no; I think the Path of the Beam went eschew on June 19th, 1999, and the Dark Tower became something else altogether. King's accident is in almost every page of the text, and it will bear an even heavier weight on the two books to follow. I am not really sure where I'm going with all of this, and perhaps it's coming off as the incoherent ramblings of a rabid fanboy. If so, I'm sending my sincerest apologies through my computer screen right now. There is so much I could and would like to say, but I will muzzle myself right now. I'll try to land this plane with a few more quick thoughts, and then I'll be out of your hair. I know this book is challenging for many, but it might just be my favorite Dark Tower novel. It's certainly in close contention with The Waste Lands for that position, and I think Father Callahan's gorgeous tale of his post-'Salem's Lot travels might just give WOTC the edge. This is a long, long story \u2014 a story that isn't exactly inviting, either, but once the reader works his or her way into it the treasures to be mined are endless and breathtaking. King takes his time with the set-up here, and everyone has a story to tell, but I wouldn't cut a single page. I simply love everything about it \u2014 the sublime descriptions of the Calla and the folken who live there, the evolution (and, in some ways, devolution) of the relationship between those in the Ka-tet, friggin' Donald Callahan (!!!!), the todash scenes, the battle against the wolves themselves. . . . It's all wonderful, and I could not utter a single grievance if I tried. This book is an extraordinary tale all its own, while masterfully setting up the final act of King's magnum opus. This book helped bring me out of one of my too-frequent reader's blocks. I'm giving it five Oritza plates. ...more 3.5 This is probably my second favorite of the series. As with other books, most of the stuff that I like the best are little character things. Seeing a new side of Roland, Jake's moments of actually being a boy, and both Eddie and Jake's growth into and acceptance of their role as gunslingers, (and, of course, Oy and his particular antics). Susannah, and her role in things, remains my least favorite part of the tet. I also like the parts with Callahan, and I especially like the religious discussio 3.5 This is probably my second favorite of the series. As with other books, most of the stuff that I like the best are little character things. Seeing a new side of Roland, Jake's moments of actually being a boy, and both Eddie and Jake's growth into and acceptance of their role as gunslingers, (and, of course, Oy and his particular antics). Susannah, and her role in things, remains my least favorite part of the tet. I also like the parts with Callahan, and I especially like the religious discussions between Roland and Callahan and, to a lesser degree Eddie and Callahan, wherein we see a little of King's religious views, say thankya. And I even like the bits with the Wolves. Usually in quest stories I find myself getting annoyed with the side-quests that invariably pop-up, but I like the way that King not only makes the side-quest interesting, but relevant and important to their overall quest, and also an important part of character and plot development. And, to that overall quest, I liked how that was developed, and how it's getting really meta with the connections of the multi-verses - or, more correctly, the levels of the Tower. That said, I did think parts of it were a bit soggy. I was never really bored, but there were parts were I felt like imitating Roland and twirling my fingers in that \"move along\" fashion. But while some parts seemed a bit too long in the telling, others seemed rushed. Overall, a good addition to the series, but the climax feels ever so slightly anti-climactic after the build-up getting there. ...more I have to say that I am enjoying this series a lot more than expected....I would have guessed that the self-references and such would have thrown me off...and that this installment, which was a big detour, would have put me off. But no, I am happily planning to see what happens next! Here, Roland and co. stop to assist a small town with its 'wolves' invasion...an invasion that steals the towns children every 23 years. Tie that in with the pregnancy of Susannah...and we have a downright theme goin I have to say that I am enjoying this series a lot more than expected....I would have guessed that the self-references and such would have thrown me off...and that this installment, which was a big detour, would have put me off. But no, I am happily planning to see what happens next! Here, Roland and co. stop to assist a small town with its 'wolves' invasion...an invasion that steals the towns children every 23 years. Tie that in with the pregnancy of Susannah...and we have a downright theme going on! The progress of the ka-tet is not as stymied as you would think...they still manage to get more clues from the Restaurant of the Mind, and find another source of info in the person of Father Callahan...yes, the Father Callahan from King's own 'Salem's Lot . As I aid, this could be very odd, yet somehow, it just wasn't. A great addition to the series ...more This book is a major disappointment and disaster. Plot: Basically, nothing happens. People just talk and talk and talk. And the only meaningful action that could be described as \"moving the plot forward\" is in the last 100 pages of the book. Major chunks of the book (all the vampire-stuff) could easily be deleted without losing anything important or relevant to the plot. Perspective: The author picked the \"God perspective\" which means that you can basically know the thoughts of all protagonists. S This book is a major disappointment and disaster. Plot: Basically, nothing happens. People just talk and talk and talk. And the only meaningful action that could be described as \"moving the plot forward\" is in the last 100 pages of the book. Major chunks of the book (all the vampire-stuff) could easily be deleted without losing anything important or relevant to the plot. Perspective: The author picked the \"God perspective\" which means that you can basically know the thoughts of all protagonists. Sadly, he switches perspectives at random moments, which I find jarring and annoying, and it comes across as unprofessional. Fantasy authors such as George R.R. Martin and Steven Erickson do a much better job handling perspectives and perspective-switching in a far more consistent way. Inconsistency: Even though the reader knows what people are thinking, the only time the reader is intentionally kept in the dark is when the protagonists discuss the identity of the Wolves. Why are we allowed to know every mundane thought _except_ the most important thought that they have? There is only one reason: to annoy the reader. This is inconsistent. Again, other writers do a better job handling secrecy for the sake of surprise. Style: the dialect and weird terminology are cute in the beginning, but after 600 pages they really get on my nerves. How many times can other people read \"will it do ya fine\" without curling their toes in frustration, I wonder? Mystery: why is nothing ever explained properly? All the references to 20th century words and technologies, the symbols, the number 19... Everything is a mystery just for the sake of creating mystery. It's all smoke and mirrors. There is no explanation, no purpose. Mystery without resolution is unsatisfactory. Sorry, I will stop reading the series here. The previous volumes were not as bad as this one. But I don't want to go through another of these ordeals. This is clearly the work of an author who has no idea where he is going, and just makes it up as he goes along. I gave 2 stars instead of 1 because I did actually finish the book. ...more", "Title": "Wolves of the Calla"},
