{"Comments": "The story is simple enough: the only child of a family won't be home for Christmas, so the parents decide to treat themselves to a cruise instead of dealing with all the drama that comes along with the holiday and then the neighbors get super angry at them!!!!! This part got my hackles raised. I'm not a fan of people being in my business or giving me unsolicited opinions or advice about things that don't concern them. I've gotten pretty good at going dead-eyed and giving a terse \"No.\" to pushy pe The story is simple enough: the only child of a family won't be home for Christmas, so the parents decide to treat themselves to a cruise instead of dealing with all the drama that comes along with the holiday and then the neighbors get super angry at them!!!!! This part got my hackles raised. I'm not a fan of people being in my business or giving me unsolicited opinions or advice about things that don't concern them. I've gotten pretty good at going dead-eyed and giving a terse \"No.<---F>\" to pushy people</---F>. I can see why the neighbors would want Frosty on the roof for a neighborhood award, but you gotta respect when someone tells you no the first time. I couldn't live in this neighborhood. I know it's a community and they all come together at the end, but I'm a firm believer in setting boundaries with people. *blows whistle* \"No means No!\" Further, the parents should have just told the daughter the truth. They get a phone call that she's on the plane home when they already have plans for a cruise. Right then and there they should have explained to the daughter that you can't just surprise people like that; holidays take planning, overnight guests take planning too. \"Listen,<---M> we already made plans</---M>, you need to make other arrangements. You're an adult, so you need to understand that you can't just expect people to drop whatever they are doing to accommodate you.\" is what the parents should have said instead of rushing around to set up the holiday for the air-headed daughter. Nevertheless, I still liked the book and read it just about every Winter since it's really short. ...more One of my favorite \"Grisham\" translations... Probably, because every Christmas I have the same idea/wish of skipping it! And being a child from a mixed marriage and having both Ortodox and Catholic Christmas does't help a thing! :) Same feeling goes for Easter :) I am not very traditional. When we were kids, we decorated, because it was fun for my parents to see us excited about the holiday - but we never really did the Perfect Christmas thing as, apparently, people do. Last year, we went to Asian Cafe and had sushi, and the year before that we did Rainbow Trout for dinner. (I imagine that my mom will start getting festive now, and decorating her house and going all out for the holiday because my nephew is getting to the age where he'll get excited about I am not very traditional. When we were kids, we decorated, because it was fun for my parents to see us excited about the holiday - but we never really did the Perfect Christmas thing as, apparently, people do. Last year, we went to Asian Cafe and had sushi, and the year before that we did Rainbow Trout for dinner. (I imagine that my mom will start getting festive now, and decorating her house and going all out for the holiday because my nephew is getting to the age where he'll get excited about that kind of thing.) But for my boyfriend and I... it's just a day. We do gifts, we get a little Charlie Brown type tree (if any) and we have dinner at home or out somewhere that's open in true A Christmas Story style, but all of the OMGCHRISTMAS is something that we don't buy into or understand. We're heathens. I honestly don't know why this book exists. I didn't get it at all. If you want to do your own thing for the holidays, do it. It's not a big deal. Everyone in this book acted like it was, but that's because they're all nosy shit-heads who think that conformity and homogeneity makes a good neighborhood, and good neighbors are expected to participate in the festivities. I think that's bullshit. Don't do the tree, don't do the gifts, don't do the decorating, or the dinner, or the party, or the cards, or whatever. It's nobody's business but yours, and if your neighbors have a problem with it... well, that's their problem isn't it? Last I checked, Christmas wasn't a requirement. Anyway, I'd seen this movie (Christmas with the Kranks) and thought that it was pretty funny, so when I discovered that I actually had it on my kindle, I decided to read it as one of the short books to fill my remaining quota of challenge reads. I WILL NOT FAIL! This book should have taken me about 2 hours, but instead it took me two days. For some reason, I just found the book annoying, in a way that the movie wasn't, despite it having Tim Allen in the lead. I found the characters to all be simply annoying. So superficial and suburban, upper middle class, keep up with the Joneses, traditional. They all decorate, and all have Frostys (placement and date of set up dictated by that one neighbor who thinks he's King Shit of Turd Hill), they do the overpriced cards, have the big holiday party, make the same dinner every year, blah blah blah. They all do this, not for the joy of the season, or because they like to, but because it's expected of them. Because it's what they've always done. Because they'll be judged by their neighbors if they fail to assimilate. Resistance is futile. So, god forbid, someone want to do something different. The nerve. The gall. The SELFISHNESS. Regardless, the Kranks decide to not do Christmas and instead go on a cruise. Which mortally offends everyone ever. Their neighbors go on a campaign of terror to bully the Kranks into the Christmas spirit, even going so far as to recruit college kids to carol in front of their house repeatedly or send them Frosty the Snowman cards or leave \"Free Frosty\" campaign signs on their lawn. Which only makes the Kranks more stubborn and resistant. Of course, everyone has a lovely change of heart on Christmas eve when, for some reason, everyone comes together to help save the day and protect the illusion of a Perfect Christmas for the 23 year old Krank daughter and her fiance (whom she's known for literally 3 weeks) when they unexpectedly call on Christmas Eve to surprise everyone by coming home for Christmas. So the whole neighborhood rallies to their rescue. Because again... I guess it's expected that Christmas be properly perfect. Nora was such a whining ninny that she got on my nerves about 3 seconds into the book, with her constant \"Is she OK??\" questioning. For god's sake, the girl is 23 and in Peru TEACHING. She's not in a war zone. And how the hell is Nora's husband supposed to know if she's OK? His crystal ball works no better than anyone else's. Luther got on my nerves, too. Just because stuff happens at the end of December doesn't mean that it's part of Christmas. He'd already agreed to charitable giving as the exception to their skipping Christmas... yet when the police department and fire departments come to collect money for their charities, he turns them away, cherry-picking \"Christmas\" vs \"Charity\" based on whether he feels like he's being shaken down for cash or not. He's essentially railing against being expected to give to these organizations, which I can understand... but again, it's hypocritical. All in the guise of saving money, but then he throws hundred of dollars away for tanning sessions while insisting on skipping the free holiday events. He would rather be miserable and hide himself away from his neighbors than compromise. Ugh. Such a stupid premise for a book. ZOMG! Someone's not doing Christmas right! Let's harass the shit out of them until they do it the way we think is proper! That's TRUE Christmas spirit. ...more This review contains spoilers because this book is not worth reading. You have been warned. The book portrays the over-the-top commercialism that many people live every day, but even more so at Christmas time. A couple tries to skip Christmas and spend the money on a cruise instead. They are ridiculed by their neighbors, office workers, and friends. Everything is going fine until a surprise Christmas Eve phone call from their daughter, who has been in Peru for a month, that she is returning home This review contains spoilers because this book is not worth reading. You have been warned. The book portrays the over-the-top commercialism that many people live every day, but even more so at Christmas time. A couple tries to skip Christmas and spend the money on a cruise instead. They are ridiculed by their neighbors, office workers, and friends. Everything is going fine until a surprise Christmas Eve phone call from their daughter, who has been in Peru for a month, that she is returning home for Christmas with her fiance. The wife start an emergency Christmas, blaming her husband for not having Christmas this year. They decide to not tell their daughter about the cruise and stay home for Christmas. They pull it off Christmas and give the cruise to their neighbor, whose wife has cancer and doesn't have long to live. The couple gave in to their adult daughter and protected her from knowing about their plans. They should have told their daughter that they were grateful for her visit, but they had different plans this year and would be leaving on Christmas Day for a cruise. Instead, they reacted like parents of a toddler that throws a tantrum in the store, \"BUY ME SOME CANDY!\". Children, especially adult children, need to learn that the world does not revolve around them. The wife should not have blamed her husband for not having Christmas. She was in agreement about the cruise. While it was harder for her to skip Christmas, she did it willingly. She and her husband are equally responsible for this. ...more What a way to end 2009: reading one of the worst books I've read this year, and I've read some real stinkers. Usually I have to at least contemplate giving one or two stars. I didn't even have to think about how many stars this deserves: one. Well, really zero, but that's not an option here. Where to begin? First, I did not like a single character. The Kranks were aptly named. The father was surly and touchy and seemed annoyed by the entire world. The mother was weak and whiny. And the daughter What a way to end 2009: reading one of the worst books I've read this year, and I've read some real stinkers. Usually I have to at least contemplate giving one or two stars. I didn't even have to think about how many stars this deserves: one. Well, really zero, but that's not an option here. Where to begin? First, I did not like a single character. The Kranks were aptly named. The father was surly and touchy and seemed annoyed by the entire world. The mother was weak and whiny. And the daughter was selfish and had no sense of reality, even though partly that's because Grisham decided to do absolutely no research into the Peace Corps. I have a friend in the Peace Corps right now and they get two days of vacation per month of work. So, no, little Blair would not be coming home for ten days of Christmas after less than a month of service. Plus, getting engaged and taking the fiance to a foreign country to meet her parents after knowing each other less than four weeks? Really, Grisham, you put so little effort into this book that you can't even be bothered to have a decent plot device to have the Kranks give up their skipped Christmas? Considering the fiance lived in Lima and Blair lived a 3-day bus ride into the mountains from Lima, they probably saw each other about twice between the initial meeting and coming to America engaged. I guess they called each other a lot? Plus, getting last minute plane tickets during the Christmas season? On whose money? And don't get me started on the neighbors. We are supposed to feel all heart-warmed and mushy that they pulled together to give the Kranks a Christmas in the end. Except they completely harassed them for the previous few weeks. Their behavior was spiteful and rude. I know this is supposed to be a book about the madness of the holiday season and crass consumerism or something, but, really, there's a line that most people walk between giving into the holiday frenzy and not doing a single Christmas-related thing. The Kranks were so unhappy because they went from one end of the spectrum to the other without attempting any decent moderation. The best thing about this book--in fact, the ONLY good thing about this book--was that it was short. ...more I adore holiday books, especially those centered around Christmas, but this is one I wish I had skipped. At least it was short. First of all, I didn\u2019t like anybody through 7/8 of the book. Mr. Krank, is, well, a crank. His wife agrees with his skipping Christmas idea but still manages to lay all the blame on him. Their neighbors and friends are jerks. I would be jealous if someone I knew were taking a cruise for Christmas not angry. I do think the Kranks were going a little overboard though. I\u2019d I adore holiday books, especially those centered around Christmas, but this is one I wish I had skipped. At least it was short. First of all, I didn\u2019t like anybody through 7/8 of the book. Mr. Krank, is, well, a crank. His wife agrees with his skipping Christmas idea but still manages to lay all the blame on him. Their neighbors and friends are jerks. I would be jealous if someone I knew were taking a cruise for Christmas not angry. I do think the Kranks were going a little overboard though. I\u2019d still do some decorating, after all they were planning on being in town through most of December. Even the daughter was inconsiderate, assuming that her parents had made no alternative plans. And why they didn\u2019t just tell her that they would be happy to spend Christmas Eve with her, but they were leaving on Christmas Day for a cruise is beyond me. She\u2019s a grown woman, out of college, capable of heading across the world on her own. The last bit of the book held all the feel good moments, but overall I didn\u2019t care, and by the end felt manipulated. I guess it had an anti-materialism message somewhere, but there are way better stories out there. ...more A light holiday read, this book actually makes me tear up at the end. (Ignore the horrifying movie, Christmas with the Kranks, which was loosely based on it.) This is the story of a rather unlikeable guy who, with his only daughter away for Christmas, convinces his wife that they will actually save money and enjoy the holiday more if they \"skip\" Christmas and go on a cruise instead. No donations, no decorations, no gifts, just a cruise. Of course, forces conspire against him, sometimes too over- A light holiday read, this book actually makes me tear up at the end. (Ignore the horrifying movie, Christmas with the Kranks, which was loosely based on it.) This is the story of a rather unlikeable guy who, with his only daughter away for Christmas, convinces his wife that they will actually save money and enjoy the holiday more if they \"skip\" Christmas and go on a cruise instead. No donations, no decorations, no gifts, just a cruise. Of course, forces conspire against him, sometimes too over-the-top, often hilarious, as he learns his lesson. The main problem with this book is that Luther is almost too unlikeable. He's fairly mean to his wife, is rude in the way he turns away people trying to get him to participate, and doesn't entirely change at the end. But the story is very engaging, and again, the ending is fun and touching. 2013 reread: Still loathe Luther, but also love even more how close knit his neighborhood is. 2016: Seriously, he's so awful. And I want to know more about Marty Whatshisname. ...more An absolute horror-show of a book. The two worst people in the entire world decide to not celebrate Christmas for a year and their Nazi suburban beehive neighbors treat them like they're hosting a donkey show in the front window. There isn't a single character in this book who passes the basic test of decency. The couple lie to their daughter and treat her like a non-person. The husband is a hateful a-hole. The wife is shallow and defeated. The neighborhood men are bullies. The neighborhood wome An absolute horror-show of a book. The two worst people in the entire world decide to not celebrate Christmas for a year and their Nazi suburban beehive neighbors treat them like they're hosting a donkey show in the front window. There isn't a single character in this book who passes the basic test of decency. The couple lie to their daughter and treat her like a non-person. The husband is a hateful a-hole. The wife is shallow and defeated. The neighborhood men are bullies. The neighborhood women are a backbiting hen house. Despite the faint glimmer of kindness in the last chapter, this book is a contemptable look at contemptable people. Merry Christmas, shitheads. ...more \"Who would ever dream that two otherwise sensible adults would skip Christmas and go on a cruise?\" It is a question posed by an idiot. The idiot in question being Nora Krank, who learned too late the awful price to be paid for not strictly conforming to your neighbors\u2019 Christmastide expectations. One is tempted to treat the question as the rhetorical device of an imbecile. And yet, the temptation to answer is overwhelming, if only because the answer is so obvious to everyone except the people inh \"Who would ever dream that two otherwise sensible adults would skip Christmas and go on a cruise?\" It is a question posed by an idiot. The idiot in question being Nora Krank, who learned too late the awful price to be paid for not strictly conforming to your neighbors\u2019 Christmastide expectations. One is tempted to treat the question as the rhetorical device of an imbecile. And yet, the temptation to answer is overwhelming, if only because the answer is so obvious to everyone except the people inhabiting this insipid Christmas novel. So, why would two otherwise sensible adults skip Christmas and go on a cruise? Maybe they are Jewish. Or Muslim. Or Hindus. Maybe they have just suffered a loss, and in the process of grieving, don\u2019t feel like celebrating. Or maybe they live in a cold latitude, where the idea of a peaceful cruise in a tropical locale is actually freaking awesome. There are literally billions of people on Earth who do not celebrate Christmas. Thus, there are literally billions of answers to that stupid query. <---A>John Grisham</---A>\u2019s <+++>Skipping Christmas</+++> doesn\u2019t recognize this fact. Indeed, it is set in a world in which this fact isn\u2019t a fact at all. <+++>Skipping Christmas</+++> takes place in a white, upper middle class suburb where such things are barely mentioned. There was once a Pakistani couple in the neighborhood, we are informed, but they moved very quickly. By the end of this nasty little work, you will understand why. We begin with a fairly anodyne premise fully articulated in this book\u2019s title. Luther and Nora Krank\u2019s daughter, twenty-three year-old Blair, has just left home for Peru, where she will be serving with the Peace Corps. With their grown daughter out of the nest, and facing a Christmas bill that runs to over $6,000 each holiday season, Luther has an inspired idea. Instead of burning 6K on parties, decorations, food, booze, and presents, Luther discovers that he and Nora can go on a warm-weather vacation for half that amount. This makes sense to me. It should make sense to you. This is a rational idea on a personal level (daughter gone for the first time, meaning the break of old traditions), on a financial level (you\u2019re saving money), and on a temperature-level (it is not snowy and icy on a cruise). Going on a Christmas cruise is an excellent idea to everyone except the holiday Nazis who live on Hemlock Lane. (It should be noted that Luther is a tax accountant and drives a Lexus. His wife is a full-time volunteer, and drives an Audi. Their financial considerations thus necessarily fall into the realm of uptown problems). Like Galileo, though, Luther is condemned for his heresy. His main nemesis is neighborhood Gauleiter Vic Frohmeyer. Vic\u2019s job is to enforce social compliance among the residents. Chiefly, he ensures that everyone places a large Frosty the Snowman on their roof. Because nothing says \u201cChristmas cheer\u201d quite like being forced to purchase, install, and display a decoration chosen by a guy who lives down the street. This is a novel about intolerance. Wait, that\u2019s not correct. Sorry. This is a novel that celebrates intolerance. Vic soon has the neighbors rise up against Luther and Nora. People trespass on his lawn and post signs. People chant \u201cFree Frosty.\u201d Carolers are sent to annoy them. Their neighbors treat them coldly for their refusal to abide Frohmeyer\u2019s edict. As satire, this might have worked. The latent fascism of the neighbors is ripe for parody. It might have been interesting to see how American notions of \u201cfreedom\u201d and \u201creligions tolerance\u201d and \u201cthe right to be left alone\u201d rub uncomfortably against the reality that \u201cfreedom\u201d means I get to tell you what to do; and \u201creligious tolerance\u201d is being a Christian or shutting up; and \u201cthe right to be left alone\u201d means you just need to surrender to the Christmas magic as it gets shoved up your \u2013 well, as it gets shoved in your stocking, which better be hanging on the mantel or else. When I read this, I kept thinking about the Christmas bullies who demand stores and cashiers say Merry Christmas , as though forcing some minimum-wager at Wal-Mart to utter bland holiday greetings in the checkout line is somehow actualizing. But I don\u2019t think this is satire. Grisham never allows that he\u2019s in on the joke. Ultimately, he approves of the neighbors\u2019 triumph over Luther\u2019s free will. Just about everyone in Skipping Christmas is a low-grade monster. Luther, despite his utterly logical plan, is also a raging asshole. I suppose this is Grisham\u2019s way of stacking the deck against him. His wife Nora is a blubbering nitwit. One classic scene has her discussing the cancellation of her Christmas Eve party while volunteering at a battered woman\u2019s shelter. As you might imagination, the specter of domestic violence pales in comparison to Nora\u2019s shocking decision to go on a vacation. The neighbors are grim, backbiting, gossipy, small-minded conformists. Scenes like the one in the shelter made me question Grisham\u2019s self-awareness. There is little textual support for this being a satire. However, it occurred to me that this might be an Andy Kaufman-esque performance piece. Nothing in this book is funny or charming or pleasant. But perhaps the overall meta-joke is that Grisham created an utterly hateful fable packaged as a delightful little spree with the understanding that because it was labeled a Christmas book no one would realize they\u2019re being conned. This might be a literary version of the Rickroll. I suggest this only to give Grisham some benefit of the doubt. There is little evidence to support this interpretation. To the contrary, the weight of the evidence goes the other way. We know this because the lesson that Luther is forced to learn is that you don\u2019t skip Christmas. Midway through, Blair, realizing that she has cut the cord of extended adolescence too quickly, calls and informs her mother and father that she is coming back for Christmas. She has been gone for only a month, but Millennials, amiright? Not only is Blair returning to the roost, but she\u2019s bringing Enrique, her Peruvian boyfriend that she\u2019s known for three weeks. I mention Enrique only because the Kranks are obsessed with his skin tone. Don\u2019t worry, though. The Kranks quickly discover, that if necessary, Enrique can pass for Aryan. The door opened and Blair rushed in. Nora and Luther both glanced at her first, then quickly looked beyond to see how dark Enrique was. He wasn\u2019t dark at all! At least two shades lighter than Luther himself! Well, thank God we dodged that bullet! Let the bloodlines remain pure. Or something. I really don\u2019t know what Grisham was getting at. It made me a bit uncomfortable. Anyway, Blair\u2019s imminent return means that the Kranks have to have Christmas after all. Luther is verbally bludgeoned by his wife, beat down by his neighbors, and finally surrenders to the joys of the season. There are obvious parallels to A Christmas Carol . Both have wealthy men learning an important truth. For Ebenezer Scrooge, the lesson is social consciousness, to take care of the least of his brothers and sisters. For Luther, it is that any attempt to withdraw from the conspicuous consumption of Christmastime will be dealt with by public ostracism. Both receive this message through visitors. For Ebenezer, those visitors are three ghosts. For Luther, it is the Yuletide Gestapo coming to make sure the tinsel is on the tree. I don\u2019t write this as a cynic. I love Christmas. I celebrate Christmas. I started watching sappy holiday movies while my kids were still out trick-or-treating. My enjoyment, however, does not require everyone else to love it too. I know plenty of people who don\u2019t get into the season like I do, for various reasons. It never occurred to me to bully them into line. The sad truth is that I picked this up in the spirit of Christmas cheer. When I finished, I just wished it was Spring. ...more Honestly, when I got to the ending, I thought \"what was the point of this?\" The author, it seemed, slapped two different concepts together and as a result, created a very disappointing book. First half had great potential in the Krunks fighting a losing battle against forced gaiety and the commericialization of Christmas. I was rooting for the Krunks to make it to the end. Then the daughter decides to come home. All is lost as they attempt to recreate Christmases of the past for the daughter. Wh Honestly, when I got to the ending, I thought \"what was the point of this?\" The author, it seemed, slapped two different concepts together and as a result, created a very disappointing book. First half had great potential in the Krunks fighting a losing battle against forced gaiety and the commericialization of Christmas. I was rooting for the Krunks to make it to the end. Then the daughter decides to come home. All is lost as they attempt to recreate Christmases of the past for the daughter. Why? I was very deflated at the end to see the Krunks cave. There was no lesson in this except that when spoiling your daughter, no sacrifice or compromising of ideals or caving to the Stepford neighborhood is too much. Author could have made a blistering commentary on the overblown excess of the season, and caved to it instead. ...more I was not much impressed by this book. I should have read the reviews more closely because lots of people seem to feel the same and worse! The story was weak, the characters unlikeable and there was really very little humour. For me it fell apart right from the basic premise that the Kranks were doing something unusual in going on holiday over Xmas. Really? Millions of people do it every year including me some years. And the neighbours were just awful. I suppose it was intended to be funny but I I was not much impressed by this book. I should have read the reviews more closely because lots of people seem to feel the same and worse! The story was weak, the characters unlikeable and there was really very little humour. For me it fell apart right from the basic premise that the Kranks were doing something unusual in going on holiday over Xmas. Really? Millions of people do it every year including me some years. And the neighbours were just awful. I suppose it was intended to be funny but I barely raised a smile. Apologies to readers who liked it but it obviously was not my cup of tea! ...more Lame. Pointless. Pathetic. Unworthy. Instead of Skipping Christmas, skip this book. I barely enjoyed the movie and it was way better than the book. I read this ASSuming that the film was based on a funnier, better characterized, more in depth holiday story of a couple attempting and failing to skip Christmas. Wrong. That ASSumption made an ASS out of me and I'm hoping to spare you the same fate. Every character was as unlikable as the next. The entire presumptuous town basically abused this couple Lame. Pointless. Pathetic. Unworthy. Instead of Skipping Christmas, skip this book. I barely enjoyed the movie and it was way better than the book. I read this ASSuming that the film was based on a funnier, better characterized, more in depth holiday story of a couple attempting and failing to skip Christmas. Wrong. That ASSumption made an ASS out of me and I'm hoping to spare you the same fate. Every character was as unlikable as the next. The entire presumptuous town basically abused this couple for not conforming to the status quo of commercialized Christmas and then only came to their rescue once they supposedly saw the light. I would definitely choose to be an atheist amongst those people. Blair was an over indulged flighty brat. Vic, a self important blowhard who ran the neighborhood like a Mafia boss. Luther was portrayed as a grinch like character who needed an attitude adjustment. Dude just wanted a freaking vacation with his wife alone after 25 something years of her obsessing over their daughter. What was wrong about that? Nora was the worst however. She basically only cared about appearances with the community and her daughter. The book's ending should have been Luther running off with another woman to the Bahamas. Lastly, what was with all the racist comments regarding the Peruvian fianc\u00e9? How dark was he? Oh, what a relief he's 2 shades lighter than us? Wow, his English is good. He is only smart because he was educated in England. Really!?! Totally sickening book. Not heart warming in the least. Actually confirmed for me why I hate the spectacle of Christmas. Disgusting people like these have ruined it. Tis the Season. ...more Delightful and different. I re-read this every year at Christmas time! I thought this book had a few funny parts, but I was also bored at times. Nothing really happened that you didn't expect. It was just an ok Christmas tale. I think if I could I would give it two and a half stars. In the Christmas spirit, I will push it up to three. This is a fun read, but personal, I think it was frustrating. This because the main-character acts totally different then I would have. Social-control at it's worst, grrrr anyhow, I can't stand it.. A family decides to skip christmas for a year to visit (Florida?). The neighbourhood which every year celebrates this with a certain tradition, can't stand the fact the family \"just\" not participate. I caught myself getting mad, little by litte, how the people around intervene and show their disapprov This is a fun read, but personal, I think it was frustrating. This because the main-character acts totally different then I would have. Social-control at it's worst, grrrr anyhow, I can't stand it.. A family decides to skip christmas for a year to visit (Florida?). The neighbourhood which every year celebrates this with a certain tradition, can't stand the fact the family \"just\" not participate. I caught myself getting mad, little by litte, how the people around intervene and show their disapproval, without really pronounce it. How many times I thought, I would *#*@!!$#*!!! hehe.. but after all I liked this book. Totally different as The Firm (which is good, but is also more serious), and it reads easily. Unfortunately I bought a secondhand \"Skipping Christmas\" where pages were loosening while reading. This bothers me and I will buy another edition. This says enough I liked it. ;) ...more Truth be told, I've never read a John Grisham novel before this book. So this book made quite an impression. I know that his other books were obviously more serious that this one, but I really liked how this book turned out. Although how they celebrate Christmas here in the US is different than how we celebrate it back home, more or less, it's still the same, being with FAMILY and FRIENDS. And being grateful for the things that we have. Skipping Christmas starts off with Luther and Nora Krank saying farewell at the airport to their daughter, Blair, as she departs to Peru to work for the Peace Corps. This is the first year she won't be celebrating Christmas with her family. Almost immediately afterward, Luther hatches a diabolical scheme - to skip celebrating Christmas altogether and depart on a cruise to the Caribbean instead, saving thousands of dollars in the process. At first Nora is reluctant but he persuades her and she fi Skipping Christmas starts off with Luther and Nora Krank saying farewell at the airport to their daughter, Blair, as she departs to Peru to work for the Peace Corps. This is the first year she won't be celebrating Christmas with her family. Almost immediately afterward, Luther hatches a diabolical scheme - to skip celebrating Christmas altogether and depart on a cruise to the Caribbean instead, saving thousands of dollars in the process. At first Nora is reluctant but he persuades her and she finally accepts the idea. Now the married couple must endure the trials and tribulations that their Christmas fanatic neighborhood put them through and hope to come out not only alive but with a fantastic looking tan. I picked this book up for two reasons: one being that I was looking for something to accomplish a certain task in a book reading challenge, and two that I was looking forward to reading something by John Grisham. He's better known for his law and courtroom thrillers, and after reading Skipping Christmas I can clearly see why. The characters were all one-dimensional. Luther was the grumpy, unwilling, egotistical husband (notice how the last name conveniently be misinterpreted as cranky). Nora was the reluctant, easily brought to tears house wife. Blair was the perfect daughter that everyone loves. They were basically cardboard cut-outs and I didn't ever connect to any one of them: even the various people in their neighborhood seemed to be sadistic and cruel. Which brings me to my next point... Why were the people on Hemlock Street so harsh and unforgiving? I'm sure that various people due to their religions and beliefs choose not to celebrate Christmas. Yet, the poor Kranks were tortured tremendously and seemingly martyred for their outright refusal to participate in the annual festivities. I know that Grisham intended this to be humorous, but I thought all the characters and most of the plot (skipping Christmas and being hassled) was over the top and really generalized. Besides my forgiving rating system, the reason why Skipping Christmas managed to garner 2/5 stars was it's convenience. I can see how someone looking for a quick, easy read would enjoy this story. It had some funny moments, especially towards the end when the family is scurrying to create a positive experience. The writing was rather bland for my taste but probably accessible for someone looking for a fun, light Christmas story. Either way Skipping Christmas might want to be left alone until the holiday season comes around, because it would be difficult to get into at any other time of the year. ...more There was nothing wrong with this book. My two stars are a reflection of my enjoyment (or lack thereof), not Grisham\u2019s skill. I have always loved Grisham and remember anxiously awaiting his next release with almost the amount of anticipation I reserve for Stephen King or Colleen McCullough. That waned after the tenth book in a row written with the Grisham \u201cDavid & Goliath\u201d formula, so I remember the excitement that THIS book would be different. And it was. Careful what you wish for\u2026 This had There was nothing wrong with this book. My two stars are a reflection of my enjoyment (or lack thereof), not Grisham\u2019s skill. I have always loved Grisham and remember anxiously awaiting his next release with almost the amount of anticipation I reserve for Stephen King or Colleen McCullough. That waned after the tenth book in a row written with the Grisham \u201cDavid & Goliath\u201d formula, so I remember the excitement that THIS book would be different. And it was. Careful what you wish for\u2026 This had its funny moments. I think we've all wanted to skip Christmas at some point and the lengths to which the Kranks go to make that happen are funny. Behind the funny though was discomfort for me. Their neighbors reacted with such animosity. What business was it of theirs? I want to believe it was unrealistic as well, but I can\u2019t quite convince myself that it is. Despite moments of discomfort the story ends with a \u201cHappily ever after\u2026\u201d feel that I found very, very unbelievable. This was my library\u2019s book club selection for December and the book was so blah that we were finished discussing in about 20 minutes. Usually they are shoving us out the door as the library closes two full hours after club begins, but this month we just chatted. That\u2019s a failure in my eyes! The one thing we all discussed for most of the time was \u201cWho the hell was Marty?\u201d! If anyone knows, please tell me your theories. :D ...more This book starts off with a rather hefty dose of reality check about the Christmas period shopping binges we all partake in. Set in an all-American town, in a street not unlike those you see in the kids Christmas movies, Skipping Christmas follows a couple through an interesting idea. Luther and Nora Krank give up the turkey and all the trimmings, turn a blind eye to the street Christmas light competition and refuse to decorate their house, and, instead plan a get away to the Caribbean on a cruise This book starts off with a rather hefty dose of reality check about the Christmas period shopping binges we all partake in. Set in an all-American town, in a street not unlike those you see in the kids Christmas movies, Skipping Christmas follows a couple through an interesting idea. Luther and Nora Krank give up the turkey and all the trimmings, turn a blind eye to the street Christmas light competition and refuse to decorate their house, and, instead plan a get away to the Caribbean on a cruise. I liked the sound of this story, but the first 80% of the book was a bit too negative for me. All the trials and tribulations Nora and Luther face seemed a bit too much, their supposed friends and colleagues not being even remotely supportive. It was, for a fair chunk of the story, tracking for a two star rating, but the Christmassy ending boosted its overall likability. Certainly very christmas oriented, this one should get you in the Christmas spirit if you can make it to the end. ...more In my opinion, this is the Christmas book. Forget A Christmas Carol or anything else resembling wholesome Christmas stories, Skipping Christmas is a destined classic. What can I say, the concept of skipping Christmas entirely and going on a cruise instead just speaks to my Grinch-y soul. This year I opted to re-read the audiobook version which is narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris who portrays <---C>Luther Krank</---C> perfectly in all his deadpan humorous glory. When I first discovered this novel, many, many yea In my opinion, this is the Christmas book. Forget A Christmas Carol or anything else resembling wholesome Christmas stories, Skipping Christmas is a destined classic. What can I say, the concept of skipping Christmas entirely and going on a cruise instead just speaks to my Grinch-y soul. This year I opted to re-read the audiobook version which is narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris who portrays Luther Krank perfectly in all his deadpan humorous glory. When I first discovered this novel, many, many years ago\u2026 I almost glanced over it because \u201cJohn Grisham? Isn\u2019t that the guy that writes legal thrillers?\u201d Yep, he sure is, but apparently he also has a humorous side. Many of you have likely seen the film adaptation Christmas with the Kranks which is all sorts of hilarious (especially with the book lacking that sidesplitting scene after Luther gets botox), but this short novel is an amusing way to spend a few hours surrounded by Christmas cheer as you contemplate an alternative to it all. ...more I read this slight Christmas story as an unabridged audiobook in the balmy month of June. I must say that reading this in the summer did not make me all gushy and wistful for the hectic Christmas season which I suppose is the point of this book. Luther Krank is quite disgusted by the commercialism of Christmas and the thousands of dollars he wastes every year on the season. This year, since his daughter is out of the country, he decides to skip it altogether and spend the holiday with his wife on I read this slight Christmas story as an unabridged audiobook in the balmy month of June. I must say that reading this in the summer did not make me all gushy and wistful for the hectic Christmas season which I suppose is the point of this book. Luther Krank is quite disgusted by the commercialism of Christmas and the thousands of dollars he wastes every year on the season. This year, since his daughter is out of the country, he decides to skip it altogether and spend the holiday with his wife on a Caribbean cruise. He\u2019s looking forward to the trip and counting up all of the money he\u2019s sure to save. His wife, Nora, reluctantly agrees to Luther\u2019s plan and the two embark on a diet to shed a few pounds before their trip. Unfortunately, Luther's nosy neighbors and co-workers can't seem to understand the whole \"skipping Christmas\" concept and nag him to reconsider. Between the nagging neighbors, the solicitors hounding him for money, and his ravenous hunger pangs, Luther is a man living on the edge. When the fire department arrives at the door peddling fruitcake Luther is so ravenous he actually considers grabbing one of the noxious things for himself. Little episodes like these fill the book with a sense of fun despite the often irritating plot twists and even more irritating friends and neighbors. Poor Luther just can't get a break and I plugged away hoping he\u2019d eventually escape the madness and get to enjoy his well deserved vacation. This is a cute story about the ridiculousness of the Christmas season and the foolishness of rushing around like mad-people. Though the ending isn\u2019t quite what I was hoping for it was written with a lot of heart. I\u2019m a bit too grumpy to appreciate the gushing sentiment and the feelings of goodwill but I\u2019m sure the ending will satisfy those looking for such things. ...more A long time ago I used to read John Grisham. A lot of John Grisham. I was definitely a fan of the courtroom drama written in his words. So, I thought this book might be a safe (and also easy) choice for book club. Not so. Unfortunately, this book was surprisingly terrible. It was so bad that it might just be the standard by which to judge all other terrible books. Underdeveloped, shallow characters, pointless diatribe, a complete lack of conviction, and a splash of random racism combine to make A long time ago I used to read John Grisham. A lot of John Grisham. I was definitely a fan of the courtroom drama written in his words. So, I thought this book might be a safe (and also easy) choice for book club. Not so. Unfortunately, this book was surprisingly terrible. It was so bad that it might just be the standard by which to judge all other terrible books. Underdeveloped, shallow characters, pointless diatribe, a complete lack of conviction, and a splash of random racism combine to make this a book you should probably avoid. And, what's worse is, the more I think about this book, the more I hate it. ...more I had to read this for my book club group. I didn't pick it. Swear to God. Now my reading image on Goodreads is shattered. I was just going to skip this book and send it on, but the fact that it is written by John Grisham, and it is \"a hilarious look at the chaos and frenzy that have become part of\" the \"holiday tradition\" made me change my mind. Anyway, it is a very quick read, couple of hours so I decided to read it. I enjoyed it very much as it is quirky, snarky and laugh out loud funny. John Grisham is an accurate observer of, well everything he observes probably. In any case, he writes in an engaging and astute I was just going to skip this book and send it on, but the fact that it is written by John Grisham, and it is \"a hilarious look at the chaos and frenzy that have become part of\" the \"holiday tradition\" made me change my mind. Anyway, it is a very quick read, couple of hours so I decided to read it. I enjoyed it very much as it is quirky, snarky and laugh out loud funny. John Grisham is an accurate observer of, well everything he observes probably. In any case, he writes in an engaging and astute fashion and I loved reading a book that constantly made me laugh. From tanning beds to plastic Frosty snowmen on the roof, weird tropical outfits to Scrooge like tendencies, a daughter in the Peace Corp; John Grisham has everyone so well portrayed that a silly book becomes a real pleasure to read. I also loved the ending, cried even. Although there are some serious ideas met with here also, like what happens if you don't conform, when other people will support you and when they won't, even the pressures to be a giving person, a family person, not to be the one who says I am going to take a slice of life for me that doesn't involve doing something for someone else, and I am going to enjoy it! ...more This is one of my most favorite books... ever. I read this novel before I watched the movie and being a John Grisham fan I was expecting something very different - but was not disappointed in the least bit. This novel had me laughing so hard and so consistently. This is a must read for anyone who loves to laugh, trust me, it does not disappoint. :) Loved this book so much. Now I have a book hangover. I need another just as heartwarming and page turning. This will be an annual read. I loved the movie, the book is better, of course. Simply delightful! 2.5 stars rounded up to 3. I don't know. This is Grisham's second chance for me (the first being The Client ), and I'm still unimpressed. I have the same gripes as I did with The Client as far as writing style goes, so just click the link above for that review for more specific details. Mostly it was the 2-D characters. Something that has improved, though, is that the narrative wasn't as disjointed, and it was easier to follow when he switched points of view all of a sudden. I think the movie Chris 2.5 stars rounded up to 3. I don't know. This is Grisham's second chance for me (the first being The Client ), and I'm still unimpressed. I have the same gripes as I did with The Client as far as writing style goes, so just click the link above for that review for more specific details. Mostly it was the 2-D characters. Something that has improved, though, is that the narrative wasn't as disjointed, and it was easier to follow when he switched points of view all of a sudden. I think the movie Christmas with the Kranks is even with the book for this one, or maybe just a tad bit better. This isn't looking good for Mr. Grisham. I still have The Testament waiting in the wings, and I've never seen that movie so there won't be any preconceived notions. We'll see how it goes when I get to it. The story itself: Well, it's a bit unbelievable, and the person I relate to most is poor Luther. This man had the unmitigated gall and audacity to not spend the money he would've spent on a traditional Christmas and put it toward a cruise instead. His wife was on board (hyuck, hyuck, hyuck) with the plan, but all their neighbors, friends, coworkers, and other community cohorts were not. These communist shitheads who feel they are entitled to the Kranks' time and money harass the poor people to death about it, and treat them like pariahs. Luther even goes so far as to tell the panhandlers for charity folk that he'll give more for their spring and summer campaigns, but this isn't good enough for them. Luther is a shithead himself, though. He could easily have avoided much of his trouble by making a couple of concessions, such as putting his damn Frosty on the roof for the sake of solidarity with the other neighbors. I don't know if it would've stopped the chin music, but it would certainly have helped. However, he was too scared to do anything for fear that it would lead to another seemingly harmless tradition being followed, which might cost a little bit of money, and then it would snowball from there to the point that they would no longer be able to afford their cruise. How apropos that Barney should come along to give us that bit of wisdom since this community belongs among the ranks with Mayberry, Castle Rock, Cabot Cove, Springfield, and others that consistently manage to make a huge mess out of nothing. This plan starts because the Kranks' daughter Blair is going to be away for the holiday season doing Peace Corps work in Peru, and they decide to do something different for one year, partly so they won't be so sad at Christmas without their daughter there to celebrate it with them. Just one year. The plan for the following year is business as usual, but this is unacceptable to the denizens of... wherever they are. They carol outside the house night after night for hours, they crank call, they picket in the yard. Basically they launch a terror campaign. How dare the Kranks do something that people all over the world do, and take a vacation during Christmastime. I personally like to be home for Christmas, but don't hold it against anyone else if they choose to celebrate differently. Blair decides to surprise her parents with a trip home for Christmas, and here's where the Krank's could've done something different, and told their daughter the truth. They could've done it from the git-go over the phone. \"Since you're not going to be home this year, we're taking a trip. How is Peru, honey?\" Course, if that had happened, there would be no story here. They could also have come clean when she called to say she was coming up to surprise them for Christmas, but I don't think that would've gone over well. The daughter is a bit selfish herself, yet Luther is the one who gets blamed for everything that goes wrong. Luther is a better man than I'll ever be, in spite of his shortcomings. If I'd had to put up with such bullshit I'd be divorcing my wife and moving to a less communistic community. Really, Nora (the wife) is a complete bitch. She says she wants to go on the cruise, but at the slightest hint of a hiccup she harangues Luther for hours on end about it as well as several other things that aren't his fault at all while she's at it. On top of that, she throws him and their pre-paid $3k cruise (no traveler's insurance; use it or lose it) under the bus to accommodate Blair. And I don't understand why Blair isn't allowed to know that her parents were planning a cruise, and had already paid for the thing. The claim is that it would hurt Blair's feelings if she found out she had ruined a plan, though that's inconsistent with a couple of things her character does. (E.g. being insulted when she finds her parents aren't waiting for her at the airport). This kid had been spoiled rotten as an only child, and it shows. I don't know. I'm a \"poor planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on mine\" kind of a fellow. Your homecoming surprise is very nice, but sorry, we have other plans. We should've told you we were taking a trip, but Nora didn't want to. I don't know why; ask her. She's one crazy ass bitch. I wanted to tell you a month ago. This book was in mama's Christmas section, though I think it fits more comfortably in the horror genre. If I had to deal with this wife, and these neighbors for the rest of my life... I just don't think I could go on. This wasn't a bad book. I'm glad I read it, but it wasn't a good one either. It has too many shortcomings, and just wasn't well written. Writing style. 2-D characters. I can neither recommend it nor suggest that you not read it. It's just kind of eh. ...more Un libro ideal para estas fechas. \u00a1Lo que me he podido re\u00edr! La historia se puede dividir en dos partes f\u00e1cilmente. La primera es una cr\u00edtica a la Navidad, a como todo el mundo se vuelve loco, a las prisas, a las tradiciones que se hacen si meditar por qu\u00e9 o sin que sirvan realmente para nada, etc. Y luego llegamos a la segunda parte, a partir de la cu\u00e1l la cosa se vuelve toda una comedia navide\u00f1a que me ha sacado unas buenas carcajadas. Al pobre de Luther le pasa de todo en el curso de un par de Un libro ideal para estas fechas. \u00a1Lo que me he podido re\u00edr! La historia se puede dividir en dos partes f\u00e1cilmente. La primera es una cr\u00edtica a la Navidad, a como todo el mundo se vuelve loco, a las prisas, a las tradiciones que se hacen si meditar por qu\u00e9 o sin que sirvan realmente para nada, etc. Y luego llegamos a la segunda parte, a partir de la cu\u00e1l la cosa se vuelve toda una comedia navide\u00f1a que me ha sacado unas buenas carcajadas. Al pobre de Luther le pasa de todo en el curso de un par de horas, a cada cual m\u00e1s c\u00f3mica que la anterior. Pero si eres un esp\u00edritu navide\u00f1o que la primera parte no te eche para atr\u00e1s, por mucho que se meta con la Navidad con comentarios mordaces y un tanto exagerados a veces y acertados otras, luego queda reivindicada y encontrar\u00e1s el esp\u00edritu navide\u00f1o en todo su esplendor. ...more If you have seen Christmas with the Kranks (2004) starring Tim Allen, Jamie Lee Curtis, Julie Gonzalo, Ren\u00e9 Lavan, and Dan Aykroyd, you almost forget the movie is based on John Grishman\u2019s book, SKIPPING CHRISTMAS. I have seen the movie several times over the years, and needed a fun audiobook with a day of working and website updates. Grisham provides plenty of entertaining fun, wit, and humor. Basically, their only daughter is going away for Christmas, so the parents decide they will boycott Chr If you have seen Christmas with the Kranks (2004) starring Tim Allen, Jamie Lee Curtis, Julie Gonzalo, Ren\u00e9 Lavan, and Dan Aykroyd, you almost forget the movie is based on John Grishman\u2019s book, SKIPPING CHRISTMAS. I have seen the movie several times over the years, and needed a fun audiobook with a day of working and website updates. Grisham provides plenty of entertaining fun, wit, and humor. Basically, their only daughter is going away for Christmas, so the parents decide they will boycott Christmas, and plan a cruise to the Caribbean. No shopping, gifts, baking, parties, and all the commercial stuff. (we all would like to do this\u2014I have done so many times--easier when you live out of town). What\u2019s funny is the tanning bed. I was laughing out loud. The parents want to get a good tan and lose weight, botox injections to look good in the swimsuits, before their trip. The neighbors get mad, then there is Frosty. Quirky and crazy. At the minute their daughter calls. She is coming home for Christmas, having met a doctor. She has told him all about her parent\u2019s famous holiday parties. They have twelve hours to pull off a party. They are scrambling to pull off a Christmas holiday to keep up the pretenses. Everyone has an opinion. The neighbors all pull together with the help of some outsiders. If you want some laughs, get the audio, narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris, and watch the DVD. Having read most all of Grisham\u2019s legal crime thrillers, it was fun seeing a different side of the author. ...more Since the Christmas season is close by I've decided to read a few Christams storys. this was one that I was a little afried to pick up. Since the thought of \"Skipping Christmas\" is a little crazy to me. But I found this book to be very amusing and heart warming. The two main characters have decided that since thier daughter Blair is off to Lima Peru, that they wont get into the Christmas chaous this year and save not just a little but a whole lot of cash. No lights, no party, no presents...nothi Since the Christmas season is close by I've decided to read a few Christams storys. this was one that I was a little afried to pick up. Since the thought of \"Skipping Christmas\" is a little crazy to me. But I found this book to be very amusing and heart warming. The two main characters have decided that since thier daughter Blair is off to Lima Peru, that they wont get into the Christmas chaous this year and save not just a little but a whole lot of cash. No lights, no party, no presents...nothing. They decide to book a cruise instead and go off on a magical adventrure this christmas. Thier neibhours however think that they have both gone crazy! and they start being mean to them and trying to get them to bukle under the peruser of no christmas. but the never do. they get to christmas eve the day before they leave for the cruise when they get an \"interesting\" call that sets into motion a list of very funny events. I wont tell you what happens but i do recomend this to everyone that thinks that skipping christmas is a good idea. because you never know what will happen the day before. ...more", "Title": "Skipping Christmas"},
