{"Comments": "Classic Dresden files book, so it was good. But this read just like about three or four of his other books...<---F> **Set in Chicago</---F>... again **White Court vamps are evil and the war is ongoing...still **Bob the pervy skull gets a complete intro and helps out with witty candor... **Thomas is hungry and Harry is suspicious of him **Harry STILL doesn't get laid I'm ready for Butcher to move on to a new subject,<---M> a new setting</---M>, and to settle the score with all of the above. How many times does Bob need an introd Classic Dresden files book, so it was good. But this read just like about three or four of his other books... **Set in Chicago... again **White Court vamps are evil and the war is ongoing...still **Bob the pervy skull gets a complete intro and helps out with witty candor... **Thomas is hungry and Harry is suspicious of him **Harry STILL doesn't get laid I'm ready for Butcher to move on to a new subject, a new setting, and to settle the score with all of the above. How many times does Bob need an introduction? If someone picks up book nine of a series and expects to understand everything, it's their own damn fault. I don't want to read the same thing nine times! Same with Harry's chivalrous nature. I'm about tired of how Harry has to repeatedly tout his own heroics. Oh, the women and children...save the women and children! Must not see them suffer, even if they are cutting off my good parts and torturing my loved ones. If it's a woman, Harry will tell us, multiple times in the same book, how he can't bring himself to be less than courteous. I think the reason this book bothered me so much was that the last book in the series had a different vibe to it, and I was so very interested the entire time I read it. That book took us to the land of fairy, gave Harry an apprentice, and I felt like it moved the series forward a few steps. So I expected this one to keep moving forward. Not so. It sort of moved backward, and it's annoying. I listened to the audio again...James Marsters does an amazing job. You can hear how into his role he is, and it seems as if he has become more and more <---C>Harry Dresden</---C> with each installment. I probably should give this more than two stars, but I ended up skimming through soooo much of it, and I really don't feel like I missed anything. I think I could have skipped the entire book and been just fine moving on to the next one. Maybe I need to just give the series a break for awhile so that it's all new again, because at this point, if the next book isn't vastly different, I may give up on Dresden. ...more The ninth Harry Dresden novel is the series riches and most densely plotted to date--and the first in the series I can't recommend to someone coming to the series cold. Not that this is a bad thing. It's a great thing for readers of the Dresden Files. While <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> does deliver payoffs and resolutions in his previous eight books, here in \"<+++>White Night</+++>\" he steps that up a notch, bringing back old friends and enemies to Harry Dresden's world all while building on several key plotlines from the The ninth Harry Dresden novel is the series riches and most densely plotted to date--and the first in the series I can't recommend to someone coming to the series cold. Not that this is a bad thing. It's a great thing for readers of the Dresden Files. While Jim Butcher does deliver payoffs and resolutions in his previous eight books, here in \"<+++>White Night</+++>\" he steps that up a notch, bringing back old friends and enemies to Harry Dresden's world all while building on several key plotlines from the last several novels as the war between the various supernatural factions begins to reach a boiling point and Harry Dresden is, once again, at the center of it all. If you're coming into this cold, you'll be thorougly confused. If you've read the previous eight books, you're probably going to eat this up with a spoon, eagerly turning the pages, waiting for the next development to hit. Murphy calls Harry in on a case that may or may not have supernatural undercurrents. Harry discovers a message that only he could find and begins to look into a series of similar deaths. Finding the same message, hidden in the same way, Harry suspects a serial killer is on the loose in the supernatural community. The problem: the number one suspect is his half-brother Thomas. Harry is convinced Thomas isn't the killer, but the evidence is pretty damning. Harry begins to pull at the threads and uncovers someone or something targeting women of a Wiccan order. They've already asked for help from Harry's first love, Elaine, who is now a private eye in Los Angeles who investigates the supernatural. All of this we find in the first hundred or so pages and that's just when it gets interesting. Butcher weaves together a complex, fascinating story with Harry firmly at the center, trying to find the pieces of the puzzle and prove the innocence of his half-brother. In the midst of al this, we learn about the politics of the current battle between the Red Court and the White Council and how Harry fits into a plan to possibly tip the balance. Along the way, we meet old enemies and have call backs to the first novel in the series. About the only thing I found frustrating about this novel is that in the last book, Harry determined a secret group was plotting within the power ranks of the White Council. And while this development is brought up, we never get any movement toward discovering who or what is behind this and what their agenda is. I realize that Butcher may be setting up some things for future installments, but a revelation this big seems a bit difficult to only pay lip service to in the story. But that's the only detraction I can find in this superb entry in the Dresden series. Butcher keeps getting better and better, continuing to keep the Dresden Files as one of the must reads on my bookshelf. ...more THIS BOOK IS OVERDUE AT THE LIBRARY IT WAS DUE YESTERDAY BUT MAYBE IF I GET THERE BEFORE THEY OPEN AND THEY FIND IT IN THE \"RETURN\" BIN THEY'LL BE ALL \"OH, SHE TOTALLY RETURNED THIS LAST NIGHT AND THAT COUNTS WE WON'T CHARGE HER ANYTHING\" WHICH STILL MAKES ME A BAD PERSON BECAUSE SOMEBODY HAD IT ON HOLD THAT'S WHY I COULDN'T RENEW IT AND HAD TO SPEND ALL DAY YESTERDAY READING SO I COULD BRING IT BACK TODAY (<---B>pant pant pant</---B>) So. Um. Okay. This is a good book. Good wizard-is-a-private-detective-in-mo THIS BOOK IS OVERDUE AT THE LIBRARY IT WAS DUE YESTERDAY BUT MAYBE IF I GET THERE BEFORE THEY OPEN AND THEY FIND IT IN THE \"RETURN\" BIN THEY'LL BE ALL \"OH, SHE TOTALLY RETURNED THIS LAST NIGHT AND THAT COUNTS WE WON'T CHARGE HER ANYTHING\" WHICH STILL MAKES ME A BAD PERSON BECAUSE SOMEBODY HAD IT ON HOLD THAT'S WHY I COULDN'T RENEW IT AND HAD TO SPEND ALL DAY YESTERDAY READING SO I COULD BRING IT BACK TODAY (pant pant pant) So. Um. Okay. This is a good book. Good wizard-is-a-private-detective-in-modern-day-Chicago book. You should read it. First, though, go read eight other books. Not eight random books. I mean, you can. If you want. I'm not the boss of you, the way my local library is the boss of me. I'm just saying, you should read this book but first you should read the eight \"Dresden Files\" books that come before it. Jim Butcher does a decent job of summing stuff up, but the world-building is amazingly intricate and the plot is way complicated and there are all kinds of awesome characters you'll want to follow from day one. Seriously. You do NOT want to just jump into the middle of this party. That'd be like showing up at a New Year's Eve bash at 11:45 and then drinking really fast to try to catch up to where everybody else is, which will kill you or at least make you barf since they've all been here swigging away since five o'clock. Okay, the analogy isn't perfect. But I don't have time to MAKE it perfect, because did I mention THIS BOOK IS DUE AT THE LIBRARY AND THE LIBRARY OPENS IN (checks watch) LESS THAN TWO HOURS AND I NEED TO GET OUT OF HERE? So read this book but first read the previous books in this series and be happy that Harry Dresden has finally stopped giving that pages-long speech he used to give once per volume like clockwork about how people don't believe in the supernatural anymore, which is TOTALLY BOGUS because have you looked around lately? People TOTALLY believe in all sorts of weird supernatural stuff. Plus Harry's stopped being quite so much of an idiot when it comes to being all protective about women, possibly because he got his stuff stolen once too often by a female perp he let his guard down with in a way he never would have with a guy. (checks watch again) GOTTA GO BYE HAVE FUN READING BEST DRESDEN BOOK SO FAR BYE! ...more *3.5 stars* LOVE this series and the narrator, James Marsters , can do no wrong, but this book was freakin' confusing as hell! Time jumps, lots of random things happening... it was just more chaotic than I would have liked. Still one of my favorite series of all time and I'm still jumping right into the next book! Executive Summary: This is one of three books from the Dresden Files series I've given 5 stars to, and if you follow my reviews, you know that's something I try not to do lightly. I really enjoy it start to finish. Audio book: I could just copy paste this section from book to book. James Marsters is great. If you've been reading my previous reviews or listening to this series yourself you know that. Highlights in this book include him actually yelling during one scene and this crazy french accent Executive Summary: This is one of three books from the Dresden Files series I've given 5 stars to, and if you follow my reviews, you know that's something I try not to do lightly. I really enjoy it start to finish. Audio book: I could just copy paste this section from book to book. James Marsters is great. If you've been reading my previous reviews or listening to this series yourself you know that. Highlights in this book include him actually yelling during one scene and this crazy french accent. Full Review So I finally arrived to what was for years my favorite Dresden book. I'm still not quite sure, but I think Changes edges this out for best in the series. This is the book that turned me into a herald for Jim Butcher . I couldn't shut up about this series for awhile. I would tell anyone who would listen they should read this series. (NOTE: This happened a second time after Cold Days last year.) Now this isn't a life changing book or something. It just one of those books I have trouble putting down. Page-turning fun. In fact I spent at least 2 hours doing nothing else but listening to the ending. Normally I'm driving, riding my bike, running errands or doing stuff around the house. I ran out of stuff to do to keep listening, so I just sat in my easy chair and finished it. Gone is the stranger coming to Harry's office. Gone is the introduction to some new characters/aspects of Harry's world. Mr. Butcher simply takes all the building blocks he established in the previous books to tell a really fun story, with a truly awesome ending. I'm probably overselling this book. Only one of my friends I've since recommended this to seems to love this book as much as I do, and he stubbornly refuses to admit Changes is a better book. Still, if you don't thoroughly enjoy this book, why are you still reading this series? Murphy calls Dresden to check out a crime scene off the books. A woman is dead. It turns out a lot of them are. They appear to have committed suicide, but something just seems off. If you know this series, you know if there is one thing that turns Harry Dresden from well reason detective to charge in first ask questions later neanderthal, it's when someone is hurting women. Especially in his town. Harry is going to do whatever it takes to put a stop to it, even if it kills him. We finally get to see Harry be a true badass in this book. There have been glimmers before, but nothing quite like this. With my vague memory of the next few books, it's something we won't quite see again until Changes either. This book shows that both Harry Dresden and Jim Butcher have both matured into something more then when they started. ...more 8/10 These are getting harder to review as the series goes on. 9 books in now and I feel confident that the reviews I write will be pretty standard throughout the series. The majority will be 4 stars as the quality of writing is good, the characters well rounded with enough development throughout the series to keep it from being stale, the plot getting more complicated with each passing novel but still easily digestible. There will be some that fail to meet that 4 star mark and some which shoot o 8/10 These are getting harder to review as the series goes on. 9 books in now and I feel confident that the reviews I write will be pretty standard throughout the series. The majority will be 4 stars as the quality of writing is good, the characters well rounded with enough development throughout the series to keep it from being stale, the plot getting more complicated with each passing novel but still easily digestible. There will be some that fail to meet that 4 star mark and some which shoot over it (only with the aid of Polka though). This one is no different. The plot is more complicated than say the earlier novels, and rely on your knowledge of previous novels to get you on board with what is going on and who all the major players are. There are handy little reminders throughout but done in a way which jogs the memory rather than gives bullet point summary of what has gone before which is a nice touch but may get tedious if reading back to back. There are a few scenes in this one which stood out, none more so than the climatic ending. This was quite the finale and was tense in parts with a great mix of action, plot reveals and backs to wall scenarios but always knowing things would work out (the continuation of the series is a giveaway there!). For some reason the climatic ending reminded me of playing Gears of War. No idea why, but I\u2019m going to pick that game up again now! All in all, if you\u2019ve read this far in the series then you\u2019re likely to continue and you won\u2019t be disappointed. This is another wise solid read in the series. If you\u2019ve not started the series then I recommend giving it a whirl (at least up until book 4 to get a real feel for the series). I\u2019d probably struggle somewhat with the series were I to read them back to back as they may become a little samey however reading them with a couple of months break in between is working out well for me. I look forward to picking the next one up in the near future. If you enjoyed this try: \u201cGears of War\u201d by Xbox ...more Another action packed episode. Murphy asks Dresden to unofficially look into a series of staged suicides. Things go pear shaped from there. This felt a little \u201cepisodic\u201d to me in that there\u2019s not a lot we haven\u2019t seen before. Ghouls and Vampires. Lots of them. There\u2019s plenty of action though and Harry has beefed up a lot of his magical accessories for that bit of extra punch \u2013 a regional commander of the Wardens of the White Council needs a bit of extra juice after all \u2013 especially in the middle Another action packed episode. Murphy asks Dresden to unofficially look into a series of staged suicides. Things go pear shaped from there. This felt a little \u201cepisodic\u201d to me in that there\u2019s not a lot we haven\u2019t seen before. Ghouls and Vampires. Lots of them. There\u2019s plenty of action though and Harry has beefed up a lot of his magical accessories for that bit of extra punch \u2013 a regional commander of the Wardens of the White Council needs a bit of extra juice after all \u2013 especially in the middle of a war with the Red Court Vampires. The action at the end of the book was pretty intense. Lots of guns, lots of Hell Fire, lots of blood and lots of ichor - Harry really cuts loose. James Marsters also really cuts loose with his Harry Dresden \u201cbelly yell\u201d \u2013 nothing a change of pants can\u2019t overcome. Molly Carpenter features, playing her part as Harry\u2019s Apprentice and we have some familiar bad guys return- one in particular who was supposed to be dead. Oh...and Harry comes out of the closet. So does Thomas. Oops. I don\u2019t know about the other Wardens, but Harry wears the \u201cgrey\u201d cloak well \u2013 \u2018cause a lot of his actions, and some of the alliances he makes involve cosying up to some pretty nasty characters \u2013 not everything is black and white \u2013 sometimes it\u2019s a case of living with the \u201cdevil you know\u201d \u2013 particularly the ones on the inside. 3.5 stars. ...more Hands down the most fun book I've read these past two years. White Night is also the best Dresden Files book so far. It restored my wobbling faith in the series. Jim Butcher has my respect. He can retain control over what makes Dresden special, yet dish out an entertaining, fast paced book that's unique in the series. Everything here was fun to read. Even the times where vampires' unearthly beauty was being described made me happy. I usually get bored by this lyrical waxing. But here it seemed Hands down the most fun book I've read these past two years. White Night is also the best Dresden Files book so far. It restored my wobbling faith in the series. Jim Butcher has my respect. He can retain control over what makes Dresden special, yet dish out an entertaining, fast paced book that's unique in the series. Everything here was fun to read. Even the times where vampires' unearthly beauty was being described made me happy. I usually get bored by this lyrical waxing. But here it seemed so exaggerated and silly that it was...not funny, but pleasant. Oh wait, it WAS funny as hell! Can't wait to read the next Dresden book! ...more Harry Dresden is back and just like every previous book in this series, its better than it's predecessors. I take my hat off to you Jim Butcher. It feels like we as readers have taken this journey with you as you started out in this career and you really have gone from strength to strength. This is also very evident in the evolution of the characters on your pages. They have become such complex and well liked beings that I doubt the author could off any one of them without a huge backlash from h Harry Dresden is back and just like every previous book in this series, its better than it's predecessors. I take my hat off to you Jim Butcher. It feels like we as readers have taken this journey with you as you started out in this career and you really have gone from strength to strength. This is also very evident in the evolution of the characters on your pages. They have become such complex and well liked beings that I doubt the author could off any one of them without a huge backlash from his fans. As always, the dialogue is top notch and the banter just makes for a so much more enjoyable read. The plot was fairly tight, twisty and felt much more layered than his earlier books, yet easily followable. I do admit that while I thought this book was pretty amazing, I never fell into that cannot-put-it-down mode that you get from your most favourite reads. I considered giving this a firm 4, but I cannot find anything negative to say about White Night, so I'm giving it the benefit of a full house of stars. Highly recommended. ...more Before starting the review of White Night , I would like to tell you how I met Harry. After devouring the Fever series by Karen Marie Moning in 2012, I wanted to read another amazing Urban Fantasy so I requested for some UF recommendations. And first time I met Harry there when I was recommended Dresden Files in response to my request. I read the blurb; saw the cover, length of the series, a male protagonist and instantly dismissed it. It was start of 2013 and had just started reading fantasy boo Before starting the review of White Night , I would like to tell you how I met Harry. After devouring the Fever series by Karen Marie Moning in 2012, I wanted to read another amazing Urban Fantasy so I requested for some UF recommendations. And first time I met Harry there when I was recommended Dresden Files in response to my request. I read the blurb; saw the cover, length of the series, a male protagonist and instantly dismissed it. It was start of 2013 and had just started reading fantasy books at that time, so I searched Google for most awaited fantasy books of 2012. I opened the very first link and checked the list. Cold Days was sitting prettily at number four with this description: \u201cFor those who have never heard of Harry Dresden, where have you been!? Harry Dresden is a private investigator who also has the added advantages (and disadvantages at times) of being a wizard. They are written in the sarcastic first person voice of Harry who tends to get hired in order to uncover the facts behind some kind of supernatural murder or crime. The first couple of books were okay, nothing really breathtakingly brilliant about them, but from there they picked up and have quickly become fan favorites. Each novel is relatively short, but they certainly back a lot of great content in-between those covers.\u201d & I finally decided to read Dresden Files but still it took me almost seven months to start this. I didn\u2019t liked it much and my friend who\u2019d recommended it to me in first place told me to have some patience. So I kept reading Mr Dresden\u2019s story, and after finishing ninth book (& I\u2019m almost 80% done with tenth right now) I\u2019m glad I did not abandoned it after reading first book. One of the best thing about this series is that the quality of books gets better with every new addition to the series and that says a lot as book #15 is coming out this June (& according to Wikipedia Mr Butcher is going to add another five books to this series and there will be a trilogy too after that). Mr Butcher\u2019s writing skill has improved a lot since the first book. Maintaining this level of quality with one book per year on average is amazing. Now he don\u2019t go in details to tell about a person from previous books. Readers have to rake their own brains for recognition. So now back to White Night , this book starts with Harry being called by Murphy to a murder scene. Murder looked like a plain suicide, but a clue left at the crime scene told Harry that the victim was a magic practitioner. Murphy told Harry that there were more murders like this. One clue led to the other and they all points to Thomas Raith (a person very dear to Harry) and made him a prime suspect. Now it was up to Harry to clear Thomas\u2019s name. White Night is a fast paced story that keeps you to the edge till you finish it. You don\u2019t know what is going to happen on the next page. Mr Butcher has blended mystery and action so well here. The climax action scene is my second favorite in this series (of course first place go to the dinosaur scene from Dead Beat ). This is a highly entertaining and excellent read. ...more A lot of people have called this the best of the series. I think I know why. This is what I call a 'Pay Off' book. Butcher has spent 8 books weaving small details of a larger plot together. Never have I felt unsatisfied by the small bits of information Dresden puts together, but it's nice to have a small pittance of the questions that have come up finally answered. That's not to say it's not awesome without it, but there's something infinitively satisfying about getting answers, even if they only A lot of people have called this the best of the series. I think I know why. This is what I call a 'Pay Off' book. Butcher has spent 8 books weaving small details of a larger plot together. Never have I felt unsatisfied by the small bits of information Dresden puts together, but it's nice to have a small pittance of the questions that have come up finally answered. That's not to say it's not awesome without it, but there's something infinitively satisfying about getting answers, even if they only open up more questions. I hate when writers string you along forever, never telling you the Big Secret. I prefer my Big Secrets to be revealed and the move onto the next one. That's not to say there isn't a Big Secret still to be seen, but Butcher is more than happy to show that we are moving towards it apace. I'd say a hearty thumbs up to this book, well worth the slow beginning I had with this series. Butcher continues to remember that not only does time pass, but things CHANGE when it does. It's refreshing in some ways that I haven't seen before. The plot, without spoiling, isn't predictable, even when it is, and solves dangling threads I didn't expect. Dresden is reaching full circle in some ways here and I can't wait to see what's next. ...more Just doing a short review this time. Basically a fun read, but not the best in the series. I did like having Molly around - the master/apprentice aspect didn't go overboard in this one, and was really fun. I thought Thomas was great in the one and I always love Murphy. I really hope that the (view spoiler) [ Lasciel storyline is done (hide spoiler) ] 4.5 maybe. Just another great addition to the series. Loved the intricacies woven in from previous books - feels like they've all been leading up to this moment, and now we're really seeing where this story will be going from now on. I'm excited to see what else Jim Butcher throws at Harry Dresden. \"What's up, boss?\" \"Evil's afoot.\" \"Well, sure,\" Bob said, \"because it refuses to learn the metric system. Otherwise it'd be up to a meter by now.\" Things having been building up for a long time with Harry. He is still fighting the demon-in-a-coin influence, which seems to have changed his personality a bit, along with the pressures he is under from being a warden, apprenticing Molly (which means his death if she screws up), and worrying about Thomas who is definitely hiding something from him. \"What's up, boss?\" \"Evil's afoot.\" \"Well, sure,\" Bob said, \"because it refuses to learn the metric system. Otherwise it'd be up to a meter by now.\" Things having been building up for a long time with Harry. He is still fighting the demon-in-a-coin influence, which seems to have changed his personality a bit, along with the pressures he is under from being a warden, apprenticing Molly (which means his death if she screws up), and worrying about Thomas who is definitely hiding something from him. At the start of this book, we also find out that Harry has had a traumatic experience in between this book and the last at a training camp for young wizards in New Mexico that involved an attack in which a couple of the kids were killed. Harry felt responsible because he wasn't able to protect them. So, Harry's a bit stressed. Too much pressure can't hurt, can it? Harry is trying to figure out who is killing off witches all over the country. It looks like there could be more than one person involved, and unfortunately, it even looks like Thomas could be one of those people. I love how Harry is completely steadfast in his faith in his brother. He hasn't known Thomas all of his life. He knows that Thomas is a vampire. Yet, he absolutely refuses to believe that Thomas is committing these crimes. I was really glad that his faith never wavered. There ends up being a very complex showdown at the vampire courts that is really interesting and exciting. I like Harry's fellow warden friend, Ramirez. He is a great side character. He's really funny, a great fighter, and reliable. I really laughed when he was hurt, at this scene, because it reminded me of Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls \"Bloody hell,\" he gasped. \"Harry, there's a knife in my leg. When did that happen?\" ...\"Bloody hell. There's a knife in my guts... and they match.\" LOL! So, the great thing about this book is that a lot of the things that have stayed unresolved for several books get resolved. There is something very satisfying in that. It's like a nice sigh of relief. Aaaahhh! ...more Harry Dresden is one of my favorite heroes. He makes mistakes and he is often confused. Through stubborn persistence he manages to reason his way out of trouble. He reminds me of Indiana Jones. This is the 9th book in the series. I'm reading these stories too fast. I just can't stop listening to them. Each book blends seamlessly into the next. The characters develop and change. They battle the forces of darkness and learn more about each other's pasts. These experiences shape and change the char Harry Dresden is one of my favorite heroes. He makes mistakes and he is often confused. Through stubborn persistence he manages to reason his way out of trouble. He reminds me of Indiana Jones. This is the 9th book in the series. I'm reading these stories too fast. I just can't stop listening to them. Each book blends seamlessly into the next. The characters develop and change. They battle the forces of darkness and learn more about each other's pasts. These experiences shape and change the characters and their relationships to each other. The progression makes sense, but is not predictable or cliche. At the heart of each book is a mystery to be solved. White Night starts out with a fake suicide. The clues lead Dresden to secret circles and a Mob boss. He learns that he is not universally trusted. Decisions he made in the past have affected his reputation. What starts out simple becomes increasingly complicated. With each solution two more questions arise. In the movie The Prestige, Michael Cain talks about the stages of a magic act. \"The second act is called \"The Turn\". The magician takes the ordinary something and makes it do something extraordinary. Now you're looking for the secret... but you won't find it, because of course you're not really looking. You don't really want to know. You want to be fooled.\" When I read mysteries, I spend the whole time trying to figure it out. To outsmart the author or the detective. Not with the Dresden files. I want the story to progress in my mind the way Jim Butcher wanted to tell it. I get wrapped up in the characters, or the words, or the stories. Then the mystery is solved. Its exciting and it makes sense. The solution wasn't stretched or overworked. I was fooled and I enjoyed it. I highly recommend this book and this series. I suggest starting at the beginning [Storm Front, Dresden Files Book 1]. Enjoy! ...more The ongoing story of Harry Dresden does not get better in the ninth book. The consistencies in the mechanics and the competence of characters get very iffy here. But well, it's the world which revolves around Harry. (Is it a trend, like in that Rowling series, to have prima donna protagonists, around which all things move, be named \"Harry\"?) Harry will explain how magic makes sense in the Law Of Conservation Of Energy even it violates the Second Law of Thermodynamics. Harry will touch the good sid The ongoing story of Harry Dresden does not get better in the ninth book. The consistencies in the mechanics and the competence of characters get very iffy here. But well, it's the world which revolves around Harry. (Is it a trend, like in that Rowling series, to have prima donna protagonists, around which all things move, be named \"Harry\"?) Harry will explain how magic makes sense in the Law Of Conservation Of Energy even it violates the Second Law of Thermodynamics. Harry will touch the good side of a fragment of a Fallen Angel who has been Pure Evil for countless millennia. Harry will defeat opponents who've had decades, maybe centuries, of practice in combat. Harry will cut deals with powerful factions of 'lesser evil' and have them around his finger even when it would benefit them more to betray him at the last minute. Harry will have you remember that this IS trashy pulp, and is meant to be enjoyed that way, if you are to enjoy it at all... ...more First read 9-16 May, 2010. Re-read 12-23 October, 2013. More shadowy conspiracy! More kick-butt violence! Harry is as funny, crafty, brave, stubborn, chivalrous, and vulnerable as ever, and now he's even more powerful! Great use of recurring characters, especially Thomas, Ramirez, Murphy, Marcone, and Elaine. Elaine is awesome, and Ramirez is adorable; I want to see both of them in featured roles in upcoming books. Thomas' secret was quite the fun surprise. Interesting revelation on the Lasciel m First read 9-16 May, 2010. Re-read 12-23 October, 2013. More shadowy conspiracy! More kick-butt violence! Harry is as funny, crafty, brave, stubborn, chivalrous, and vulnerable as ever, and now he's even more powerful! Great use of recurring characters, especially Thomas, Ramirez, Murphy, Marcone, and Elaine. Elaine is awesome, and Ramirez is adorable; I want to see both of them in featured roles in upcoming books. Thomas' secret was quite the fun surprise. Interesting revelation on the Lasciel matter. Another good page-turner! ...more This series really does get better and better. I'm anxious to find out when will Harry get his happily ever after...or how about just a girlfriend. This is killing me! 4.5 Stars! Another awesome Harry Dresden tale! Oh, I so, so, soooo love this series, for so many, many, many reasons. I love it for its consistency to enthrall and entertain. I love it for the ever broadening world that Butcher keeps expanding like putting together a giant puzzle by starting from the innermost piece. I also love that Butcher's writing started out very good, with a clear strong voice, and continued to be clear and strong until about two books ago when the writing itself got tighte 4.5 Stars! Another awesome Harry Dresden tale! Oh, I so, so, soooo love this series, for so many, many, many reasons. I love it for its consistency to enthrall and entertain. I love it for the ever broadening world that Butcher keeps expanding like putting together a giant puzzle by starting from the innermost piece. I also love that Butcher's writing started out very good, with a clear strong voice, and continued to be clear and strong until about two books ago when the writing itself got tighter. Sharper. More consistent. And more nuanced. The way he's grown in both style, depth, and range of imagination is incredibly inspiring. Love it! And the cast of characters continues to delight and entertain me. Butcher's bad guys are at last showing more subtle shades of gray, and it's wonderful to see that, as it makes the plots so much more interesting. This series is such a pleasure to read. Such a sincere pleasure. What divine escapism and hours of entertainment. Cannot wait to dive into the next installment! ...more This volume was high on magic, but low on detective work which wasn't the best trade-off; however the action and characters helped to re-balance the scales. Murphy was particularly awesome in this installment as was Harry's brother, Thomas. Molly got on my nerves a bit with her complete disregard for how her actions impacted others. She's learning though, as was evidenced by her growth towards the end. I really liked Ramirez too. When he called Dresden out on his sketchy behaviour, I expected th This volume was high on magic, but low on detective work which wasn't the best trade-off; however the action and characters helped to re-balance the scales. Murphy was particularly awesome in this installment as was Harry's brother, Thomas. Molly got on my nerves a bit with her complete disregard for how her actions impacted others. She's learning though, as was evidenced by her growth towards the end. I really liked Ramirez too. When he called Dresden out on his sketchy behaviour, I expected the worst, and he surprised me. Lasciel's plot thread was another aspect that caught me off guard as well. Ooh, and MOUSE! And, here I was thinking that *I* had the best dog in the world. WHITE NIGHT definitely had a lot to offer, and I can't wait to discover what mischief Harry & co get into next. ...more 4.5 stars Well, here goes Harry trying to save everyone. This time Harry is trying to figure out who is killing low-level practitioners. Along the way he gathers many a strange ally. This can't be good. \"The enemy of my enemy is my friend.\" Is he?? Harry continues to play both side and through the middle. He manages to wiggle himself out of some \"hairy\" situations... (did you see that?), and maintain who he is and what he stands for. With that being said, we are getting more glimpses of Harry's d 4.5 stars Well, here goes Harry trying to save everyone. This time Harry is trying to figure out who is killing low-level practitioners. Along the way he gathers many a strange ally. This can't be good. \"The enemy of my enemy is my friend.\" Is he?? Harry continues to play both side and through the middle. He manages to wiggle himself out of some \"hairy\" situations... (did you see that?), and maintain who he is and what he stands for. With that being said, we are getting more glimpses of Harry's dark side. His power is increasing, his feelings become darker and he conveys a no BS attitude... with everyone. Not sure where this is going, but I like it. I'm just wild about Harry. ...more Quick review: Cover: fitting Rating: R Thumbs Up: 3.5 Overall: it was okay Characters: Well written Plot: A lot going on, maybe too much Page Turner: Eh Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Dresden SUMMARY It took me way too long to read this book. I like this series, but I found that too much was going on and the way it was written it was almost hard to follow at times. But alas, the funniest thing ever happened in this book. (view spoiler) [ When Dresden pretended to be his brother\u2019s ga Quick review: Cover: fitting Rating: R Thumbs Up: 3.5 Overall: it was okay Characters: Well written Plot: A lot going on, maybe too much Page Turner: Eh Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Dresden SUMMARY It took me way too long to read this book. I like this series, but I found that too much was going on and the way it was written it was almost hard to follow at times. But alas, the funniest thing ever happened in this book. (view spoiler) [ When Dresden pretended to be his brother\u2019s gay lover, that was priceless. LOL funny. (hide spoiler) ] I will continue with the series, but I\u2019m hoping the next one will be better. The last two, just didn\u2019t do it for me. ...more One of my friends convinced me to try out the audio versions of this series, and I really enjoyed, especially the humour, which had me laughing out loud 5h00 in the mornings on my way to work - not an easy feat. The only problem with this title, was that I was a bit lost with some of the characters or events referred to, as I read the previous titles in the books quite a while ago. The other one was the amount and lenght of the fight scenes - too much, but much easier to deal with on audio. Will One of my friends convinced me to try out the audio versions of this series, and I really enjoyed, especially the humour, which had me laughing out loud 5h00 in the mornings on my way to work - not an easy feat. The only problem with this title, was that I was a bit lost with some of the characters or events referred to, as I read the previous titles in the books quite a while ago. The other one was the amount and lenght of the fight scenes - too much, but much easier to deal with on audio. Will definitely get the next in the series. ...more Basically more of the same from Butcher. If you like the series, this one is an enjoyable entry: nice set-piece action, almost no character development (on Harry, that is; his apprentice Molly is growing up quite a bit), and a complex interaction between several people's independent plots for our wizard-cum-P.I. to unravel. This book focuses a lot of Thomas, Harry's vampire half-brother, as Harry and Thomas try to keep one another alive, use one another to further their own interests, and avoid a Basically more of the same from Butcher. If you like the series, this one is an enjoyable entry: nice set-piece action, almost no character development (on Harry, that is; his apprentice Molly is growing up quite a bit), and a complex interaction between several people's independent plots for our wizard-cum-P.I. to unravel. This book focuses a lot of Thomas, Harry's vampire half-brother, as Harry and Thomas try to keep one another alive, use one another to further their own interests, and avoid actually talking to one another. The Harry/Thomas relationship has taken over the driver's seat of the series now that Harry and Sgt. Murphy are pretty much settled as a non-item, and the series is no worse for it. In fact, the characters' sex lives are a recurring theme of the book. Harry's four-year dry spell, Molly's we-don't-talk-about-it wild teenage years, Warden Ramirez' \"Spanish lover\" bragging, and Harry's and Thomas' desire that Thomas not return to using sex to feed his vampiric hunger are all played off against one another. In the Dresden universe, magic is fueled by passion more than cold will, and the relationship between love (of several kinds), need, and passion is the undercurrent. Molly's story continues to advance. This is a great way to replace the pages of navel-gazing the earlier books had regarding their moral dilemmas with instruction and challenge, which makes it not only palatable but interesting. All in all, White Night has about three pages of Harry just rambling to himself about his ethics, which is a big improvement. Molly has to face a big question in this book: Is she willing to get involved in as messy a business as her father and Harry do? We're pretty certain of the answer (after all, her father is called by God Himself to fight evil), but she's going through the uncertainties and test-of-faith that should accompany the decision. It's also a good chance for Harry to re-examine his own involvement. His cooperation with the demon he buried in his basement, his anger over the vampires' destruction of his last healthy relationship, and his knee-jerk partiality when his brother is implicated in a string of murders all lead to some good questions and reflection. Murphy, Ramirez, and Holly all take him to task on how caught up he's getting and how he's starting to believe his own savior complex. How he handles it is the stuff of this (and hopefully the next few) books. The actual plot addresses some great points that have been outstanding in the story: Who is the hypothetical Black Council that's working against the wizards and the vampired equally? How are the White Court vampires handling Laura Raith's covert usurpation of her father's will? How will Harry's conscription into the Wardens--a group widely feared by the less-powerful supernaturals--affect his reputation and business as Chicago's hero of the little guy? And just how tough is Mouse, his stolen magical Temple Dog, anyway? The stuff of the plot is spelled out all over the place: someone is killing female magic practitioners, limiting off the pool of potential White Council members down the line (magic is often passed matrilinearly). The evidence increasingly points to Thomas as a \"person of interest\" and Murphy asks for Harry's help on the case--unofficially, since she's been demoted. Harry's first complication is the other evidence in the case: it looks like a tall, thin Warden is involved in the killings, and Harry himself is the only tall Warden in the Midwest. The more Murphy and he investigate, the more it appears that no one theory can explain all the killings, especially when Elaine, Harry's teenage love, comes back into his life with information about similar killings in three other cities, leading Harry, Elaine, and Murphy to unravel a complicated case of multiple murderers using and manipulating one another while deftly using Harry as their pawn. Pure fluff. Pure fun. Nice entry into the series. Well worth the three or four hours it takes to read. ...more What did I think? I need to find new ways of describing my surprise at this series. Each book I say is a new level, yet the following book seems to increase in quality. It is hard to compare book one to how different the writing style is now. The characters, the story arcs, the monsters, the sub plots, the passion and intensity. It is just all so different now. The early books were very basic monster detective stories, what we have now is a complex story with many many possibilities. What we hav What did I think? I need to find new ways of describing my surprise at this series. Each book I say is a new level, yet the following book seems to increase in quality. It is hard to compare book one to how different the writing style is now. The characters, the story arcs, the monsters, the sub plots, the passion and intensity. It is just all so different now. The early books were very basic monster detective stories, what we have now is a complex story with many many possibilities. What we have now is less gun toting dodging death Micky Spillane stuff and a throughly enjoyable thought provoking story. In White Night I think the biggest difference for me was the way the story has stopped being all about Harry Dresden and his magic skills and more about everything paranormal. The vampire courts internal politics, the faerie in fighting, the choices between supporting evil beings because they are less evil than the alternative. It's all there. There are no magical wand endings, there are horrible decisions with dire consequences and having to do shit you hate, but having no choices. That is where Butcher is really really starting to shine. This book starts to work very hard at making sure you understand Power corrupts and Absolute Power corrupts absolutely. Harry is forced into using his allies to fight the white court Vampires who are having their own internal power struggle. His allies these days include, a LA wizard and warden, a Chicago cop, a brother vampire and one of the biggest underworld crooks around. So it is a fascinating struggle as Harry tries to keep the evil people in place of power so they cannot be replaced by really evil people. There is a fantastic story arc in this book with Lash, the fallen angle residing in Harry's brain. I think it was a brilliantly written arc and it really shows Butchers ability to create a very complex story with emotion, tension and humour. I am going to end this strange review with a shout out to Masters, who is reading the audio book version. Well done sir! I have to admit I wasn't much of a fan of yours in the first two books, but you were freaking AWESOME in this book. Thanks rob, for putting me on to this series, I absolutely love it and can't wait for the next book. ...more The energy and pacing of Butcher's writing picked up, I thought, in Proven Guilty (the book immediately prior to this in the series). White Night took that energy to another level and delivered a tightly written story that had me staying up late at night to push through. I've been impressed with a number of aspects of Butcher's writing as I've progressed along, including his ability to; use flashback effectively (say what you will about New Mexico - I enjoyed it), weave \"wit\" into Harry's charact The energy and pacing of Butcher's writing picked up, I thought, in Proven Guilty (the book immediately prior to this in the series). White Night took that energy to another level and delivered a tightly written story that had me staying up late at night to push through. I've been impressed with a number of aspects of Butcher's writing as I've progressed along, including his ability to; use flashback effectively (say what you will about New Mexico - I enjoyed it), weave \"wit\" into Harry's character in a decreasingly 'corny' fashion, dive into the political machinations of \"the Courts/Council\", and to stay true to form with regard to the 'non-fiction' part of the series (e.g., Chicago actually IS Chicago... surprised me to find out later that Jim hadn't even been to Chicago for the first few books... I might be off on that remark; it's what I picked up along the way). But... One of the most impressive feats of Butcher's writing, in my view, is his worldbuilding. I liken it to a light behind a door at the end of a dark hallway that's cracked open ever so slightly; you can't help but want to peek inside. The only difference is, when you peek inside, you want to [scream 'Forzare!' and] kick that door in and absorb as much as you can. In each successive book in the series (I've read nine now without stopping), I've found myself looking down that same hallway at some point or another, with that cracked doorway open just a little more each time. I don't know how to explain it other than to say that it's exciting, mysterious, rich in depth, and vivid as all heck. Taking just a few examples, not in any particular order, that have resonated with me: Sue, little Chicago (and what went into it), the use of thermodynamics/physics/energy in his ever-expanding magic system, gates/Nevernever, the Hunt, Outsiders, and on and on and on... 4.5 stars out of five (the 0.5 was earned solely on the \"battle\" scene alone.... those of you who've read it will know what I'm taking about). ...more Dresden just gets better and better.. I loved this one. If Butcher keeps up with this every book is better than the last trend, my head may just explode by the end. I was really into the story all throughout, but I have to say that my favorite part, yet again, turned out to be the epilogue type chapter after the big mystery is solved and the fight is over. (view spoiler) [Ramirez laying into Harry a little for not trusting him.. Finding out about Lash's sacrifice (how weird is it that I got a lit Dresden just gets better and better.. I loved this one. If Butcher keeps up with this every book is better than the last trend, my head may just explode by the end. I was really into the story all throughout, but I have to say that my favorite part, yet again, turned out to be the epilogue type chapter after the big mystery is solved and the fight is over. (view spoiler) [Ramirez laying into Harry a little for not trusting him.. Finding out about Lash's sacrifice (how weird is it that I got a little misty eyed over the \"death\" of a evil fallen angel?).. And then learning what Thomas had been doing for work.. LOL. Classic. (hide spoiler) ] Small Favor , here I come! ...more I feel safe to give this book four stars! The sense of humor is endless and the book also has some killer fight scenes! What is not to love? White Night is an acceptable installment of the Dresden Files. Some plot threads are tied up, some are advanced and a few new ones are introduced. The humor is always intact. It would be true to say that certain plot threads and their endings are quite obvious, but others are less so. Sadly, I still found Molly to be simply annoying. I think, however, my reaction to this book is based on something that I\u2019ve slowly picked up on over the course of the series. Harry is surrounded by beautiful women White Night is an acceptable installment of the Dresden Files. Some plot threads are tied up, some are advanced and a few new ones are introduced. The humor is always intact. It would be true to say that certain plot threads and their endings are quite obvious, but others are less so. Sadly, I still found Molly to be simply annoying. I think, however, my reaction to this book is based on something that I\u2019ve slowly picked up on over the course of the series. Harry is surrounded by beautiful women. The closest a woman gets to plain, let alone ugly, is \u201cprettily plump\u201d. And that woman was in her forties. True, there was an unattractive women in an earlier book, but we all know what happened to her. Additionally, there was a powerful older woman who was not that good looking, but then she gets put into a young body and rediscovers lust while losing some power. Then tells Harry all about it. Even if Harry isn\u2019t attracted to the women (or doesn\u2019t admit that he is), every single woman is looker, and this will be pointed out twice (if not more) in each novel. To be fair, Butcher\u2019s men don\u2019t seem to be lacking in looks either, but it is hard to be sure. Maybe I\u2019m having this reaction because during the time I was reading White Night , I also watched Spartacus: Blood and Sand on Starz. Despite the fact I knew the show was going to be a rip off of 300 (and boy was it!), I watched the first episode anyway. I like Lucy Lawless and John Hannah, and while an interview with one of the producers promised nudity, it promised equal opportunity nudity. I wonder if the writer of the article watched the same show I did. There was nudity, but 99.9% of it was woman\u2019s breasts. Even the female extras in the crowd at the games were flashing bosoms, and if women weren\u2019t flashing bosoms, they were flashing cleavage. Additionally, Roman women apparently walked around in a permanent state of arousal and wore very little clothing. I did not know this. It\u2019s true that some men had their shirts off for extended lengths of time, but some of those men should have kept those shirts on. It\u2019s true you saw one or two male butts, for a nano-second, during sex scenes. I suppose the show could appeal equally to heterosexual males and lesbians, but since I\u2019m neither one of those, I found all the breasts, rather, well silly. Like a teenager or young adult who is trying to be shocking or titillating, but instead just makes you want to giggle because of the stupidity of it. (But the nudity wasn\u2019t as silly as the line our hero says to wife. Poor wifey is upset that her hubbie is leaving to fight. He wraps a piece of cloth around shapely thigh, and says something like, \u201ckeep this between your warm thighs and we\u2019ll both be happy\u201d. I think the actor should get an award for saying that with a straight face. Even more amazing is the fact that the piece of cloth, tied with the loosest knot I\u2019ve ever seen, stays in place during the 300 ripped off sex scene.) To compare Spartacus to Dresden isn\u2019t fair. Butcher\u2019s writing is worlds better, but Butcher\u2019s use of sex feels the same way. I understand that Harry is a bit sexually frustrated. But does every single woman have to be described in terms of sexual desire or as if she is applying to a dating website? I understand why the men can\u2019t be described in the same way. Harry doesn\u2019t swing that way, so it would be strange if he described the men that way. And maybe, just maybe, all men view women though a desire level reader, but would every single woman be that good looking? Further, there are two additionally disturbing trends. The first is Murphy. Murphy is Dresden\u2019s friend. It may be true that he feels some type of desire for her but doesn\u2019t want to act on it out of respect for their friendship. Okay, fine. But does their relationship have to be re-hashed and constantly defined? I understand that Butcher and/or his editors want to make the books easy for people to pick up, but the Murphy/Dresden relationship gets way too many questions and definitions, even if such questions are the simple one liner. If Butcher wants to have them be lovers, do it. If not, drop it. It\u2019s old. The more disturbing trend is the character of Molly. It is made repeatedly clear that Dresden doesn\u2019t sexually desire his apprentice, who is the daughter of a close friend. This is weird for two reasons. The first is that it makes Dresden look like he is protesting too much. The second is it makes every other male look, at least for a second, like a child molester. If each book is a year later, then Molly isn\u2019t legal. While she is in her late teens, she isn\u2019t 18. She might be attractive, but does every, single male have to say something like, \u201cgosh, she\u2019s a looker; are you doing her?\u201d. This is especially disturbing when it comes from Ramirez, who might get a buy because he is at most ten years older than her and not old enough to be her father. Ramirez knows who she is, and his questions show exactly what he thinks of friendship and Harry in terms of sex. Not to mention teacher/student sex can be (and in most cases should be view as, the exception being a relationship that starts after the class or instruction) abusive. I also found it interesting that Molly\u2019s use of her power results in her channeling an orgasm. How come we don\u2019t see male character\u2019s doing that? I don\u2019t think Butcher is sexist. His female characters are just as complex as the male characters. His female characters are powerful magic users, and in some cases have knowledge that Harry lacks. Female writers, like Laurell K. Hamilton, portray women in a far more negative light. Butcher doesn\u2019t even touch the negative light switch. In truth, maybe I\u2019m having this reaction because the book is told from a male point of view. Do men feel this way when they read woman\u2019s fiction? Then again, I think Butcher doesn\u2019t write for either sex. He writes for readers, for people who like his stories, and that seems to be a pretty even mix of the sexes. It seems something like Starz\u2019s Spartacus , a show that is simply an excuse to show breasts. While Dresden is not as sexually charged, it almost feels as if Butcher is putting the sexual ideas there because he thinks readers want it. That\u2019s why every woman is beautiful and desirable, and why Harry has no plain female friends. I wish Butcher would trust his readers more. He doesn\u2019t need the sex, even the small hints he has, to sell these books. He does his job extremely well by keeping Harry Harry. ...more Another great read with Dresden. Jim Butcher did it again, I can't wait to start book 10 but it will have to wait a little.", "Title": "White Night"},
