{"Comments": "In 1994 <---A>Isabel Wilkerson</---A> won the Pulitzer Prize for journalism, making her the first African American woman to do so. Upon receiving this prestigious award, Wilkerson,<---M> a daughter of migrants</---M>, paused to think of those who paved the way so that she could have the opportunity to earn such an honor. Listing a who's who of prominent African Americans of the 20th century, many had moved with their families during the Great Migration, north or west in search of a better life. Ray Charles, Bill Russell, In 1994 Isabel Wilkerson won the Pulitzer Prize for journalism, making her the first African American woman to do so. Upon receiving this prestigious award, Wilkerson, a daughter of migrants, paused to think of those who paved the way so that she could have the opportunity to earn such an honor. Listing a who's who of prominent African Americans of the 20th century, many had moved with their families during the Great Migration, north or west in search of a better life. Ray Charles, Bill Russell, Jesse Owens, and numerous others began their life in the segregated south with no future, and ended up famous because their parents had the foresight to leave. Yet, most Americans are familiar with the Bill Russells of the world; Wilkerson desired to introduce her readers to the average migrant who left. The idea that became <+++>The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration</+++> had been born. Wilkerson made the decision to research why African Americans left the south, and over the next three years would interview countless migrants and their descendants to pinpoint and shed light on an often overlooked era in American history. Between 1919 and 1970 millions of African Americans left their bleak lives and ended up in northern cities, giving themselves and their children hope for the future. Wilkerson chose for her subjects three people, one each who migrated to New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles in search of attaining the American dream. Ida Mae Brandon Gladney left Mississippi in 1937 and ended up in Chicago where she would live until her death in 2004. Living in a Jim Crow society with no hope for the future, Ida Mae, her husband George, and their two children took the midnight train north to Milwaukee, where Ida Mae's sister lived. Eventually, the family settled on Chicago's south side, where they would find life long jobs in both factories or hospitals. The children attended a desegregated school and one became a teacher. Although blue collar jobs, the Gladneys made the most of their opportunity, never missing a day of work, and even became long time home owners. Ida Mae did not regret her decision at all because she knew that she would have had little future at all in a white supremacist south. Chicago became her home and she lived as a proud citizen, never missing an election, and admired by all who knew her. I was most captivated by Ida Mae's story because she was an immigrant to Chicago, much like my paternal family in the 1910s. Yet, Wilkerson's other two subjects lead equally compelling lives. George Swanson Starling was smuggled out of Florida in 1943 and lived in Harlem for the rest of his life, yet never quite leaving the south. Working as a porter on train routes between New York and Florida, Starling became an advocate for African American passengers, working at this profession for 35 years. Even though it was a small step up from life in the south, at least Starling knew that he was free to live his life as he pleased, without the constant fear for his life. In the end of his life, Starling still managed to straddle both worlds. Most successful by material standards was Robert Joseph Pershing Foster who moved from Monroe, Louisiana to Los Angeles in 1953. An accomplished surgeon, Foster had no rights to practice in the south, even as the son-in-law to the president of a prestigious black college. Foster knew of many other Monroe residents who ended up in Los Angeles and he viewed it as the ultimate land of opportunity. Revered for his entire professional career, Dr Foster was the personal physician of the likes of Ray Charles and even had a song written about him. Las Vegas became a second home, and Dr Foster never shied from the limelight. Yet, despite his appearances, he still was a southerner and exhibited many insecurities during his life. He told Wilkerson that he migrated so that his daughters could enjoy an upper class life free of discrimination. Wilkerson won the Pulitzer while a journalist for the New York Times, and her journalistic skills are evident throughout this book. While a nonfiction book detailing fifty years of history, the text read like a rich story, reeling me in from the very first pages. In addition to knowing how the history played out in time, I wanted to find out how Ida Mae, George, and Dr Foster lived in relative comfort as northerners. Wilkerson is the daughter of migrants herself and she showed both empathy and compassion toward her elderly subjects. A gem of a book and a jewel detailing an often overlooked era of American history, The Warmth of Other Suns easily rates 5 bright stars. I look forward to reading Wilkerson's future masterpieces, whenever she writes them. ...more Thinking back, I tried to recall some of the migrations that took place within America that I had learned about: - The Gold Rush - The Dustbowl Migration Somewhere along the lines, my teachers forgot to mention the approximately six million people that left the Jim Crow South during 1915-1975, in search of a \u201ckinder mistress\u201d, and that they summoned up the courage, and risked their lives to drive cross-country, illegally hop trains, and save for months to secure a train ticket headed to Los Angeles Thinking back, I tried to recall some of the migrations that took place within America that I had learned about: - The Gold Rush - The Dustbowl Migration Somewhere along the lines, my teachers forgot to mention the approximately six million people that left the Jim Crow South during 1915-1975, in search of a \u201ckinder mistress\u201d, and that they summoned up the courage, and risked their lives to drive cross-country, illegally hop trains, and save for months to secure a train ticket headed to Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit, Philadelphia, etc. This migration was similar to that of anyone crossing the Atlantic or the Rio Grande, except that these migrants were already citizens of this country, but just like other migrants, they were escaping the hardships of [one part of] their own country. This daunting journey could be clear across the continent, and to a world that was completely foreign to them. Many of these Americans never looked back. Some blending into the crowds to never be heard from again, and some even changing their names to forever cut any ties to the South. Wilkerson herself was a product of this migration, as her parents left the South early on. She had recognized the fact that this generation of Southerners was dwindling and that her time to gather information was limited. She spent fifteen years of her life devoted to this book, and spent countless hours researching and interviewing approximately 1200 people, to tell a story she thought everyone should know. Rightfully so, as this migration went on to shape America\u2019s urban cities, their culture, the geography of neighborhoods, and the beginnings of suburbanization and housing projects. In the beginning, I found it really difficult to read. She detailed the brutality of the south, the injustices, lynchings, the degradation and despair. I couldn\u2019t fathom growing up in the South during this time, being treated inhumanely and the hopelessness of ever rising above it. Wilkerson tells the stories of three migrants, Ida Mae Gladney, who left Mississippi for Chicago, George Starling who left Florida for New York, and finally Robert Pershing Foster who left Louisiana for Los Angeles. Their stories are different and unique, yet they intertwine, and are interspersed with detailed facts about the migration and other stories of the South. But in telling the stories of Ida, George and Robert, she personalized and humanized it. You cried with them, you hoped for them, and you rooted for them. In the end, I couldn\u2019t put it down. I had to read more, hoping they would \u201cmake it\u201d. How amazing it must have been to have sat with them and heard firsthand this bit of history. It is part journalism (<---B>she is a Pulitzer prize winning journalist</---B>), part storytelling. It\u2019s epic, it\u2019s heartbreaking, inspirational and educational. I have learned so much from this book. It is one of the best pieces of non-fiction I have ever read. I was intrigued and moved by it, and will carry their stories with me for many years to come. In one of my favorite quotes of this book, Robert said, \u201cHow could it be that people were fighting to the death over something that was, in the end, so very ordinary\u201d. Yes, something as ordinary as being free to go and do as you please, and to do something as \u201cordinary\u2019 as sitting in a diner with everyone else and eating a meal just as he had. ...more This is going to sound a little weird, but throughout my reading of The Warmth of Other Suns , which is primarily about the migration of black Americans from the Jim Crow South to western and northern U.S. cities during a large portion of the 20th century, I kept thinking about my upper-middle-class white high school biology teacher, Mrs. Ferry. Mrs. Ferry had a pretty significant impact on the direction my life took\u2014she was a vibrant older woman who demanded a lot from her students, and those qu This is going to sound a little weird, but throughout my reading of The Warmth of Other Suns , which is primarily about the migration of black Americans from the Jim Crow South to western and northern U.S. cities during a large portion of the 20th century, I kept thinking about my upper-middle-class white high school biology teacher, Mrs. Ferry. Mrs. Ferry had a pretty significant impact on the direction my life took\u2014she was a vibrant older woman who demanded a lot from her students, and those qualities, combined with her sudden death mid-year, sparked my lifelong interest in science. But one of the things I\u2019ll always remember about her is a single conversation we had about her experiences living in Alabama in the 1950s. She talked about segregation and inequality, about economic disparity, and about the brutal examples of injustice she had witnessed personally. I listened to everything she said, but being a 15 year-old at the time, I wasn\u2019t able to completely assimilate those horrors or understand what kinds of long-term effects Jim Crow would have on the black people who lived under its harsh rule. So in many ways, this book filled in some of the gaps for me. If nothing else, Isabel Wilkerson is thorough. She covers the exodus of blacks from the Deep South beginning with the First World War right up through the end of the Civil Rights Movement, and even slightly beyond (as its effects were not necessarily immediate in certain Southern strongholds). Because this pattern of migration lasted for several generations, it was difficult to \u201csee it\u201d while it was happening, and most of its participants were virtually unaware that they were part of any statistical shift in black American residency, but in the end, six million black people left the South during these years. And while Jim Crow is arguably the chief (and perhaps even the sole) reason for this migration, the backgrounds, experiences, and outcomes of these migrants ranged as widely as one might expect considering the movement\u2019s longevity. Wilkerson focuses on three biographies to describe the migration, each subject hailing from a different Southern state, each migrating in a different decade, and each carrying with him a different set of circumstances that factored into his decision to leave, yet they were all (spiritually) united in their desire to extricate themselves from a situation for which they saw no viable future. The move itself wasn\u2019t easy for any of them, and often times the cities to which they migrated, while being free of government-sanctioned segregation, were still riddled with racism and injustice. Overall, this book did a lot to explain why some cities, and even some sections of those cities became predominantly black, and it was by no means a coincidence that they lay along primary railroad routes out of the South. More than that, it did a lot to explain how those from Georgia and Florida migrated mostly to Boston and New York, those from Alabama and Mississippi moved to cities like Detroit and Chicago, and those from Louisiana and Texas went to Los Angeles and other West Coast cities. While the logistics of black migration are interesting, and I was reminded of how awful conditions were for those living in the Jim Crow South, not to mention the difficulties that persisted even for the ones who left, Wilkerson tended to repeat herself a great deal. And because she focused on the lives of the three migrants in particular, her story did not end with the passing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but continued following these characters\u2019 lives, the trajectories of which would become more anecdotal in nature and less \u201crepresentative\u201d of their migrant generation, well into the 1990s. It is clear she became attached to these people emotionally, which is certainly not a bad thing, but it is what caused it to drag a bit for me, even though I ordinarily find myself more interested in the human interest aspect of history. Regardless, The Warmth of Other Suns is solidly researched and serves as an important tool for better understanding the trials and tribulations of black Americans in the 20th century, trials that are altogether human, yet which I had not otherwise been exposed to outside of my Rhode Island prep school upbringing. ...more I loved this book on several levels--though with one caveat. First and foremost, by narrating the lives of three very different participants in the Great Migration, Wilkerson fleshes out an important historical story that most of us know only in general outline, if that. The details of routine racial discrimination that these individuals faced both before and after coming to the North are horrifyingly vivid and impossible to ignore. Wilkerson's research is thorough and deep, and her (somewhat co I loved this book on several levels--though with one caveat. First and foremost, by narrating the lives of three very different participants in the Great Migration, Wilkerson fleshes out an important historical story that most of us know only in general outline, if that. The details of routine racial discrimination that these individuals faced both before and after coming to the North are horrifyingly vivid and impossible to ignore. Wilkerson's research is thorough and deep, and her (somewhat controversial) comparisons of African American migrants to immigrant populations strike me as particularly insightful. Her prose can indeed be luminous at times. But why, oh why, didn't her editor remove the frequent and maddening repetition of simple facts (Ida Mae was terrible at picking cotton; newspapers reported \"without apology\" the disparity between white and black teachers' pay), often within a short span of pages? As an editor, I may be unusually attuned to and distracted by this flaw--but I know I'm not the only one. Given the monumental effort involved in researching and writing (and marketing) this book, I wish someone had given the final manuscript the detailed editorial attention it deserved. ...more I wish I had it in my power to make this book required reading for everyone, at least all students. When we cringe at the horrors waged against others in the world today, we need to remember our own not so distant history and take the lead in driving change. Isabel Wilkerson\u2019s The Warmth Of Other Suns is one of those rare books that cracks open the world and makes you see everything you thought you knew in a different light. The Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist chronicles the massive migration of blacks from the Jim Crow South, where racism was still entrenched, to the North and West. This happened from 1915 to 1970 and forever changed the country, especially the makeup of the big cities. While Wilkerson\u2019s scope is large, and takes in history, labou Isabel Wilkerson\u2019s The Warmth Of Other Suns is one of those rare books that cracks open the world and makes you see everything you thought you knew in a different light. The Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist chronicles the massive migration of blacks from the Jim Crow South, where racism was still entrenched, to the North and West. This happened from 1915 to 1970 and forever changed the country, especially the makeup of the big cities. While Wilkerson\u2019s scope is large, and takes in history, labour, urban planning and sociology, and includes some beautiful quotes from the writers of the time (the title comes from a Langston Hughes poem), she also focuses on the lives of three unique individuals who made the move in different decades. Ida Mae Brandon Gladney left the cotton farms of Mississippi for Chicago in 1937; George Starling, a bright and ambitious man who was run out of Florida for organizing fruit pickers, escaped to Harlem in 1945; and Robert Joseph Pershing Foster left his middle-class Louisiana family in the 1950s to become a doctor, eventually making his way to Los Angeles, where he became, among other things, Ray Charles\u2019s personal physician. Their stories are as gripping, full of life and moving as anything in a novel. Some scenes will stay with me forever, such as the account of Foster\u2019s long and lonely drive west, where, despite being out of the south, he could find no motel or hotel who would rent him a room - all because of the colour of his skin. Years later, when he\u2019s an established professional, Foster and his wife and friends are turned away from a Las Vegas hotel, even though Sammy Davis Junior is performing there. There are lynchings in the South, but there are fights, bombings and fires in the North. The story of how one black family is shown it\u2019s not wanted in the largely white Chicago neighbourhood of Cicero will make you weep for humanity. Still, there is the possibility of freedom and opportunity in the north. If not in one generation, then the next. Wilkerson's list of famous African-Americans whose families migrated north reads like a who's who of success. Wilkerson uses scholarship to quash all misconceptions. Black migrants from the South were on average better educated than those who stayed and soon would have a higher level of education than the blacks they joined. The black migrants of the 1950s had more education even than the northern white population they joined. And contrary to common belief, the black migrants were more likely to be married, remain married and less likely to bear children out of wedlock and head single-parent households than black northerners. I also didn\u2019t realize that migration patterns were dependent on what transportation line was available. Speaking of transportation, there\u2019s a theory that Newark, New Jersey became a popular destination because Southerners, unused to Yankee accents and not wanting to miss their stop, mistook the \u201cPenn Station, Newark\u201d for \u201cPenn Station, New York.\u201d This book is filled with lots of fascinating details like this. After reading this back in February, I\u2019ve since read books by James Baldwin and Maya Angelou, both of them part of the great migration north (although Angelou\u2019s mother sent her back south to Alabama to be raised by her grandmother - a common occurrence).<---F> I have a few quibbles</---F>. Wilkerson will often repeat stories to remind you of what\u2019s happened to a person before (understandable in a book of this scope), but if you\u2019re a close and careful reader that might irritate you. And I wish there were some photos. On the author\u2019s website, however, you can see some fantastic shots of her three subjects so you have a visual to go along with their unforgettable stories. ...more After listening to The Warmth of Other Suns for close to two months in 40 minute increments on my walk to work every morning, the main thing I want to say is WOW. This book is extraordinary in so many ways. And I think I have to break my self-imposed one paragraph rule for this review because there are so many dimensions to the Warmth of Other Suns. Wilkerson writes a comprehensive multidimensional book about the great migration -- the move by millions of African Americans from the southern U.S. After listening to The Warmth of Other Suns for close to two months in 40 minute increments on my walk to work every morning, the main thing I want to say is WOW. This book is extraordinary in so many ways. And I think I have to break my self-imposed one paragraph rule for this review because there are so many dimensions to the Warmth of Other Suns. Wilkerson writes a comprehensive multidimensional book about the great migration -- the move by millions of African Americans from the southern U.S. to the north from the 1920s to the 1970s. She focuses on the lives of three people -- Ida May, George and Robert. She has broken their life story into parallel segments starting with their southern childhoods all the way to the end of their lives. Their narratives are interspersed with a wealth of information about the Jim Crow laws and life in the southern U.S. after slavery, the history and sociology of the great migration, and the living conditions and politics in the north for the migrants. And just to make the whole experience richer, she throws in many quotes from various African American writers and other historical figures. It's fascinating, infuriating and inspiring from beginning to end. I especially loved Wilkerson\u2019s depiction of Ida May, George and Robert. She brings them to life as three dimensional complex people. Their motivations, strength of character and flaws are painted through detailed anecdotes of their childhood, educational and work lives, family, spouses, what led them to migrate, their life after migration and the last years of their lives. It\u2019s amazing that Wilkerson is able to provide such a detailed account of their lives, but she clearly spent hours interviewing them and others who knew them. The narrator in the audio occasionally takes on their voices when she quotes them, bringing them to life even more. It\u2019s hard to avoid feeling the connection Wilkerson developed with them, especially at the end as she is very transparent about how close she became to them -- even accompanying Robert to doctors' appointments and Ida May to more than one funeral. And Wilkerson so skilfully writes about them with respect but without ever over romanticizing them. It's pathetic how little I knew about the great migration and the lives of southern African Americans in the earlier 20th century -- except in the broadest and simplest strokes. Being Canadian is a poor excuse, especially pathetic since I lived in North Carolina in the late 1980s for a couple of years where the long term effects of segregation were certainly visible. But this is part of Wilkerson's narrative -- that this massive human movement that has had huge repercussions on the lives of millions of individuals and the American landscape has until recently received very little mainstream attention -- and the attention it has received has tended to be over simplistic. Wilkerson certainly manages to fill this gap, delivering so much information so masterfully. Through the details of the lives of Ida May, Robert and George, she conveys so much. Images that will stick with me: Robert's excruciating drive across the desert on his way to California where there were no motels where he could stay and it wasn't safe for him to stop on the side of the road to sleep; when Ida May buys a house in a white middle class neighbourhood in Chicago, the house across the street literally disappears overnight and over the first year all of the houses owned by white Americans are sold to African American families; George's fearless negotiations for higher wages in the Florida orange groves and his co-workers' fearful visit to the owner to tell him they weren't on side with George's demands; and George's work on the railroad and the description of how when crossing from north to south the \"coloured\" cars had to be attached so that the railcars could be segregated for the ride into the south. It's a very long book, so if you listen to the audio, be prepared for the 20 hour plus narrative which occasionally feels a bit slow. But overall the narration is very well done, nicely punctuated by the occasional imagined voices of Ida May, Robert and George. On a final note, earlier this year I had the good fortune to stumble on Jacob Lawrence's paintings of the great migration at the MOMA while on a visit to New York. I had never heard of them and it was such a gift to find these beautiful vivid paintings. And the images in the paintings hovered in my mind as I listened to Wilkerson's book. Here's a link to a book about his paintings: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2... Again WOW! This was so good. I learned so much and felt so much -- the perfect reading (or listening) experience. ...more I loved this!! If you haven't read it, you are missing something astonishing and deeply moving. Wilkerson shows us the migration of blacks from the south to the north from 1915 through 1970 through the lives of three main characters - Ida Mae Gladney (Chickasaw County, Mississippi to Chicago), George Swanson Starling (Wildwood, Florida to New York City), and Robert Pershing Foster (Monroe, Louisiana to Los Angeles). Three very different people with different stories over different decades, but t I loved this!! If you haven't read it, you are missing something astonishing and deeply moving. Wilkerson shows us the migration of blacks from the south to the north from 1915 through 1970 through the lives of three main characters - Ida Mae Gladney (Chickasaw County, Mississippi to Chicago), George Swanson Starling (Wildwood, Florida to New York City), and Robert Pershing Foster (Monroe, Louisiana to Los Angeles). Three very different people with different stories over different decades, but these three humanize the scholarly research Wilkerson weaves into her tales. On a personal note, Ida Mae Gladney's story on the Chicago migration was particularly meaningful to me. My own maternal grandparents were first generation Polish immigrants in Chicago and lived on the South side of Chicago with my mother and her sisters in an apartment complex occupied by blacks and various eastern European immigrants. My grandparents, aunts and my mother were able to save up and purchase a house in the suburb of Cicero in 1951. Cicero was mainly comprised at that time of Polish, Slav, Czech and Italian first and second generation immigrants who themselves had fled the cramped low income housing of South Chicago. That same year, a college-educated World War II veteran named Harvey Clark, who happened to be black, tried to move his family from a Chicago tenement to a more spacious apartment in Cicero. When Mr. Clark tried to move his family into the apartment, it touched off an ugly race riot in Cicero, which ended with the apartment building being set afire and all of his belongings burned. It has always been fascinating to me how immigrants turn on the immigrants that follow them. http://www.aaregistry.org/historic_ev... My grandparents, aunts and my mother moved into their home in Cicero one month after that event, only blocks away. I had no idea this had ever happened!! I fell down a rabbit hole and spent quite a bit of time poking around the history of that event. One of my favorite discoveries was that the daughter of Mr. Clark, Michele Clark, went on to become the first black female network TV reporter - driven, perhaps, by what she lived through in her youth: http://mije.org/mmcsi/general/first-b... But I digress - just one of the many, many fascinating tidbits that consumed me as I absorbed this book. I learned so much. This is a book that will stay with you for a long time. Educating, illuminating and heart wrenching. Highly recommend. ...more Excellent history of the movement of American blacks out of the southern states and into the north and west of the U.S. to escape the impact of the continuing Jim Crow laws on every facet of their lives. Wilkerson has found three exemplars of this internal migration who individually moved to New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, three of the popular points due to railway lines and highways. Using these three individuals we learn some of the reasons black citizens without rights decided to make thi Excellent history of the movement of American blacks out of the southern states and into the north and west of the U.S. to escape the impact of the continuing Jim Crow laws on every facet of their lives. Wilkerson has found three exemplars of this internal migration who individually moved to New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, three of the popular points due to railway lines and highways. Using these three individuals we learn some of the reasons black citizens without rights decided to make this major move, leaving all they knew behind, including their extended families. Much that was presented here was new to me---I didn't know the full extent of the Jim Crow laws on the daily life of all black people in the south. Nor did I realize the difficulty of actually leaving the south behind. It seems like a different world from that in which I live. The only fault I found with the book is the frequent repetition which I have seen mentioned elsewhere. It seems intended at times, to stress a point, as an accent. At other times it seems as if the author is writing for a casual reader who may just be dipping into the book at odd points. It does seem occasionally excessive, especially when the same anecdote is being repeated for the third or fourth time for no discernible reason. This does not add to an already strong story. All in all, highly recommended as very educational and readable. ...more Through page 72: I am finding this book both intellectually interesting and emotionally gripping. That is exactly what I have been looking for. The book focuses on the lives of three blacks: Ida Mae who emigrated from Mississippi to Chicago in 1937, George who fled from Florida to NY in 1945 and finally Robert Pershing who left in 1953 seeking to establish himself in California. The book follow these three individual and others for 100 years, During two world wars, the Depression and the events Through page 72: I am finding this book both intellectually interesting and emotionally gripping. That is exactly what I have been looking for. The book focuses on the lives of three blacks: Ida Mae who emigrated from Mississippi to Chicago in 1937, George who fled from Florida to NY in 1945 and finally Robert Pershing who left in 1953 seeking to establish himself in California. The book follow these three individual and others for 100 years, During two world wars, the Depression and the events that will lead to the crumbling of the Jim Crow laws and the southern caste system. I want to be emotionally moved; only in this way can I come to understand their experiences. Along the way I want to learn how America has been impacted by black history. I am not disappointed so far, but wait...... here is what I think after reading more and more and more: I did not finish this book, quite simply because what I want is to sink into another world. This book doesn't fit that bill. I read more than half, so I feel I can tell you what I observed, to help you decide if you want to read it. Although the book focuses on three individuals, as stated above, there are so many other stories, details and examples of the injustices experienced by the blacks in the US beginning at the turn of the 19th century that I became distracted and could not focus on the three individuals. I know this sounds bizarre, but the book was too comprehensive. Someone is sure to protest and say that all these facts, all these injustices must be stated so the reader understands how it really was for Blacks living under the Jim Crow laws. Of course such a protest has some truth, but you can overdo anything. All the injustices listed, one after the other, were hard to swallow. The excessive details became distracting. The historical sections thrown in between the sections on the lives of Ida, George and Robert were distracting. In addition, I found myself less interested in Robert than in the other two. So there goes one third of my interest out the window. I feel the book should have focused more on the three individuals and skipped some of the other historical details. I am not saying I disliked this book. I am not saying it isn't terribly interesting, but it didn't draw me in. That was the kind of book I was searching for. Some of the events told are horrible, and thus moving, but the historical sections are comprised of facts and histories and events piled on top of each other. In these sections the reader is not shown, but told and told and told. You will learn a lot from the book, but it is still predominantly a \"history book\". Other history books have pulled me in more. A superb history book, now that I cannot put down. Before you pick up this book be sure you are in the mood for a long, detailed, in-depth recounting of black people's history. Maybe this book does deserve four stars, but it didn't fit what I thought I would get; I gave it three. ...more With the turn of each page, I wished there was one to replace it. The book was written to document the Great Migration, when approximately six million African Americans fled the South to live in other parts of the country. But it captures so much more than that. I did not understand the enormity of this movement, until I read this statistic: Before the Great Migration only 10% of African Americans lived outside of the South. After the Great Migration, approximately 47% did. As the author so eloq With the turn of each page, I wished there was one to replace it. The book was written to document the Great Migration, when approximately six million African Americans fled the South to live in other parts of the country. But it captures so much more than that. I did not understand the enormity of this movement, until I read this statistic: Before the Great Migration only 10% of African Americans lived outside of the South. After the Great Migration, approximately 47% did. As the author so eloquently stated, \u201c It was the first big step the nations servant class ever took without asking.\u201d Thoroughly researched and impeccably pulled together, The Warmth of Other Suns contains more African American history than I learned in all of my K-12 years combined. While lost in this book, I came to admire, cheer for, and feel for the 3 individuals whose stories are beautifully woven into the overarching theme. With each of them sometimes joyfully and sometimes painfully reliving the details of their own decisions to make the migration, it was not possible for me to put this book down before knowing how their lives ultimately turned out. This book highlights the efforts put forth to end the migration and the rude awakening once migrants learned that even after the journey, things would not be easy. Those making the trek by train were free to move between cars for colored passengers and non-colored passengers only after mid-trip, when the lines dividing the North and the South were crossed. Those driving, after determining they were too tired to drive any more, were forced to fall in line behind other cars along the side of the road to rest, because motels were not made available for them to sleep. After reading that some individuals were brought to tears while recalling the details of their journey, my threshold for empathizing increased 1000 fold. Something about the expression, \u201cJust get over it\u201d no longer sits right with me. People do not harbor pain with memories for 50 years because they can just get over it. Even if I read another 5000 books in my lifetime, when it\u2019s all said and done, The Warmth of Other Suns will for sure make my list of the best books I've ever read. ...more Say you want to tell the story of ~6,000,000 Americans of African descent migrating from the southern to the northern US from the 1910s to the late 1970s. Six million is a big ol\u2019 chunk of people. And a comprehensive picture of this Great Migration has been largely left out of the textbooks and consciousness of many of your potential hearers. What do you do? Well, if you\u2019re Isabel Wilkerson, you take 15 years of work and >1200 interviews and transform them into the page-turning, gut-punching, Say you want to tell the story of ~6,000,000 Americans of African descent migrating from the southern to the northern US from the 1910s to the late 1970s. Six million is a big ol\u2019 chunk of people. And a comprehensive picture of this Great Migration has been largely left out of the textbooks and consciousness of many of your potential hearers. What do you do? Well, if you\u2019re Isabel Wilkerson, you take 15 years of work and >1200 interviews and transform them into the page-turning, gut-punching, eye-opening, beautiful marriage of form and content that is The Warmth of Other Suns . (I know that sentence is on the overblown side, but I couldn\u2019t help myself. It really is quite a book.) In narrative nonfiction like this, there are three potential scales at which to cover a topic: the author\u2019s personal experiences, stories of extra-authorial individuals, and big-picture facts-and-stats, history and context stuff. Compelling narrative nonfiction is often a judiciously balanced mixture of two or more approaches, though I, personally, enjoy material weighted towards the facts-and-stats -- a more academic and less journalistic flavor.* When the text is heavily anecdotal, I get all wrapped up in the non-randomness of the sample. How can I trust that these particular anecdotes well represent the whole, anyway? Not that I\u2019m totally exclusive reader. I have tons of respect for story-based nonfiction that\u2019s clearly the product of massive, diversified, and heavily referenced research, like The Lemon Tree: An Arab, a Jew, and the Heart of the Middle East or The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks . For me, The Warmth of Other Suns is in this group. As her parents participated in the Great Migration, Wilkerson had all three approaches upon which to draw. But she chose to distill the experiences of those six million largely into in-depth coverage of three migrants\u2019 stories. The limited information she includes, however, clearly stands on the shoulders of those 15-years work and 1200 interviews, and she gets the big-picture work done comprehensively, yet economically, within her restricted framing. Her three chosen migrants cover unique cells in what must be a huge matrix of potential characteristics, from migration path and decade, to class, to ultimate balance of southern and northern identity. The book stays tight and focused; Wilkerson never disappears down any of the fascinating rabbit holes she must have encountered over the course of all that research. Do I wish there were more stats and scholarly sources? Well of course I do, because I\u2019m biased like that. But Wilkerson\u2019s chosen form produced an original and convincing book, so I was happy to read beyond my biases. It also helped that I never felt she picked her stories to play on readers\u2019 emotions.** Given the punch of her material, Wilkerson adopts a rather straightforward tone, but your heartstrings are doing the dueling banjos anyway. And you know why? Because the institutionalized discrimination against black Americans in the Jim Crow South went way beyond denying them a gulp from the whites-only drinking fountain. Violating dehumanizing and arbitrary codes of behavior resulted in beatings if you were lucky and lynching if you weren\u2019t. Not that the North was any racial utopia. As you root for those in Wilkerson\u2019s stories to escape to a free life, they run smack into segregation and open discrimination clear away from the Mason-Dixon line. But you come away with the feeling that however bad things were in the North, the continual, unorganized flood of migrants testifies to how much worse things were in their situations of origin, until finally, the exodus helped tilt the balance towards Southern change. Given the way oversimplified version of this phenomenon in my history textbooks, I am so grateful Wilkerson gave me the chance to feel this world. Not that her discourse is packaged up tidily in an historical box: it smacks down right in the middle of relevant contemporary debates. She draws fascinating parallels between this intra-national Great Migration and the continuing inter national migration that characterizes US demographics. Though six million folks left the South, their starting and ending locations fell along distinct pathways, as with many current immigration patterns. She also busts the racist myth that deadbeat Southern blacks destabilized the North, when by many metrics, migrants were as well or better educated and more socially stable than existing populations, again, similar to patterns in international immigration. Continuing her chosen migrants\u2019 stories well after their arrival in the North was a great touch. What happens to them, their families and their neighborhoods in the 21st century, shows that many of the forces Wilkerson chronicles are still at work. Go visit the comments section of any news article about Barack Obama ever to see that this is no post-racial society. Then disinfect your brain and read this book instead. This book pairs well with so many things. Wilkerson discusses the huge number of writers whose lives were directly influenced by the Great Migration: Toni Morrison, Langston Hughes, August Wilson and Lorraine Hansberry among them. For before-and-after views of other migrants\u2019 experiences, Richard Wright\u2019s Black Boy and The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks come to mind. ____________ * Like I got way too indignant when the authors of Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide justify their heavily anecdotal approach by citing a few studies in which people are only moved by personal stories, not data. As someone who spent the best part of a decade researching invasive forest pathogens, inspired not by the moving life stories of individual trees, but data on big ecosystem effects, I\u2019m like, try me, Nick Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn. Just try me. **I care so much about its subject, but I felt a little used after Half the Sky . Which book I promise to stop mentioning after this. ...more I was not at all sure I wanted to read this book. On the surface, it's a tough sell: 600 pages about the Great Migration. So, like, a really long book about people moving house? In what world would that be interesting? Here's the thing, though: Isabel Wilkerson is a special kind of writer and researcher. She's not regurgitating facts. She's telling a story. Three stories, actually, of three very different people who all journeyed from the southern United States to the north in the mid-20th centur I was not at all sure I wanted to read this book. On the surface, it's a tough sell: 600 pages about the Great Migration. So, like, a really long book about people moving house? In what world would that be interesting? Here's the thing, though: Isabel Wilkerson is a special kind of writer and researcher. She's not regurgitating facts. She's telling a story. Three stories, actually, of three very different people who all journeyed from the southern United States to the north in the mid-20th century. And, of course, their stories are all a lot more complicated than just picking up and moving from one part of the country to another. Before reading The Warmth of Other Suns, I had heard the term \u201cJim Crow\u201d but had no real idea of the horrifying reality behind it. I was grossly uneducated about white oppression of African Americans post-slavery. I had no idea I had so many gaping holes in my education. Even the life of Martin Luther King, Jr., beloved by elementary school teachers everywhere as the safe, unobjectionable way to teach the history of the civil rights movement and which Wilkerson touches upon through the lenses of her three subjects, was not nearly as non-violent and passive as I expected. This is the kind of book that is perfect for audio. Sitting down with 600 pages of non-fiction in print can be daunting, but listening to an hour or two a day isn't scary. Narrator Robin Miles is a skilled reader, and brings all three individuals to life with expertly executed accents. I could have listened to her interpretation of Ida Mae's silky Mississippi drawl all day long. Ultimately, I'm so glad I invested the time and mental energy The Warmth of Other Suns required of me, and if you choose to do the same, I can assure you, you won't regret it. More book recommendations by me at www.readingwithhippos.com ...more On a plane so review to come. In the meantime, now more than ever this book is required reading. Edited to add: In early July, there was an awful week when we watched video of (yet another, the 2nd in a week) Black man dying while men in uniform, having shot him, did nothing to help him, but instead ordered his girlfriend to keep her hands on the wheel, as her little girl, so heartbreakingly, offered useless comfort from the back seat and then we watched helpless as a sniper retaliated against o On a plane so review to come. In the meantime, now more than ever this book is required reading. Edited to add: In early July, there was an awful week when we watched video of (yet another, the 2nd in a week) Black man dying while men in uniform, having shot him, did nothing to help him, but instead ordered his girlfriend to keep her hands on the wheel, as her little girl, so heartbreakingly, offered useless comfort from the back seat and then we watched helpless as a sniper retaliated against officers in Dallas, killing 5, and our hearts - or mine at least - were so full and so bruised that it didn't seem possible to go on with the pain of this summer filled with \"terror\" of all kinds and an election that seems designed to do anything but alleviate this pain. Anyway, during that week, I went to the gym where I am wont to engage in long philosophical discussions with K., the middle-aged Black man that runs the place - conversations that usually touch on everything in the news BUT race. I didn't know how to say anything meaningful, so I just said, \"I'm so sad and angry right now, and I can't even believe we're still here in 2016 and, most importantly, I can't imagine what you are going through\". And he told me a lot of things about his life - about growing up in Louisiana, post-Jim Crow, but still in an era when only 2 black kids could be on the Little League team, and his getting on meant someone else being moved off. About being an avid golfer and getting stopped time and time again by NYC policemen who find a Black man with a golf bag sinister...even when he is one block from the golf course. About going to certain clubs in NY in the '80s to play squash as an invited guest, and being shown the service entrance. And intriguingly, to me as a reader, he told me that in this week of terrible renewed pain, he had been urging the young people in his family to read The Warmth of Other Suns. He told me that this book was a talisman to him, and he read it and re-read it when he was trying to make sense of race in America. I went home and ordered the book right away, and barely put it down for the entire week that followed. Did I know about Jim Crow? Sure I did, to a certain extent, but I knew about the heroes and heroines of the Civil Rights movement, and the more sensational moments of violence, and less about the wearing grinding horrific legal and factual subjection of Black people in every aspect of daily life. So too had the Great Migration merited a sentence or two in my American History II class, but there again, as is the wont in American History classes, it was presented triumphally, Black people pouring into the North to take well paid factory jobs. I didn't really know bupkus about the subject matter of this well-told and well-researched book. There are three things that made this book exceptional for me: First, Wilkerson found great subjects, and the variety in the time and place and manner of their birth/migration/life out of the South made the book very rich. Second, she's a great story teller - the book is almost cinematic in some of its cliff hangers. Third, her repeated ties between the Great Migration and the immigration journeys taken by people like my great-grandparents, also fleeing hostile and often murderous legal regimes, helped me root the book more firmly in my own emotional experience. So, the question I still wrestle with is why did K. tell me that this book is his talisman? I haven't had a chance to ask him yet. Maybe it comforts him to know that we as a nation, and his people as a people, are on a journey out of a very dark place, and it shouldn't surprise us, even if it deeply saddens us, that we haven't gotten to the end of that journey yet. I'm not sure. I'm only grateful that he got me to finally read this book. ...more \u201cI was leaving the South to fling myself into the unknown . . . I was taking a part of the South to transplant in alien soil, to see if it could grow differently, if it could drink of new and cool rains, bend in strange winds, respond to the warmth of other suns and, perhaps, to bloom\u201d \u2015 Richard Wright Isabel Wilkerson, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, and a daughter of the Great Migration, writes with conviction and passion. To tell us about the relocation of southern, mostly rural black people to \u201cI was leaving the South to fling myself into the unknown . . . I was taking a part of the South to transplant in alien soil, to see if it could grow differently, if it could drink of new and cool rains, bend in strange winds, respond to the warmth of other suns and, perhaps, to bloom\u201d \u2015 Richard Wright Isabel Wilkerson, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, and a daughter of the Great Migration, writes with conviction and passion. To tell us about the relocation of southern, mostly rural black people to cities in the North and West, that reshaped America in the middle decades of the Twentieth Century, she focuses on three individuals, two men and a woman. Each of them came from a different state and social class, but they were united in the conviction that life under Jim Crow was untenable. Hailed as the definitive history of the epoch, it is a monumental undertaking with mixed results. To her credit, she chooses evocative poetry to highlight each chapter and argues persuasively to dispel some of the myths surrounding the impact of migrating blacks on urban neighborhoods. But by relying on personal narratives to shape her story, she often loses track of her source material and repeats herself. While her protagonists are all worthy individuals with compelling personal histories, revealing their lives is no substitute for a deeper analysis of the social, political and economic forces which contributed to urban decline in the 1960's. It also diminishes some of the drama of the Civil Rights Movement which played out in real time on televisions around the world. I was disappointed that there were no photographs, an odd omission in this sort of social history. Reading it made me feel virtuous, maybe even smug, as if I'd spent a whole day eating only healthy food, but by the end I was left craving something richer and more substantial. A link to some wonderful photographs that Ms Wilkerson might have chosen: http://www.inmotionaame.org/gallery/?... ...more I found this book very absorbing, even though the onset of work in the fall meant I had to put it aside for far too long. The section on migration to Milwaukee I found especially fascinating. I grew up in a small town just outside that city, a sleepy little place fast becoming a bedroom suburb. We had been there only a few years when a strange rumor swept up and down our dead-end road -- a Black family had bought the house for sale down on the corner and would be moving in soon! There was some ex I found this book very absorbing, even though the onset of work in the fall meant I had to put it aside for far too long. The section on migration to Milwaukee I found especially fascinating. I grew up in a small town just outside that city, a sleepy little place fast becoming a bedroom suburb. We had been there only a few years when a strange rumor swept up and down our dead-end road -- a Black family had bought the house for sale down on the corner and would be moving in soon! There was some excitement on the road, some fear, and not even one bit of indifference as far as I could tell as an eight-year-old boy. Three neighbors put their homes up for sale before (they assumed) their property values could plunge. When the new folks moved in, they were much like any other middle-class family on the road - a dad, a mom, a girl (Gail, who joined my class in school), and two younger boys. Soon I was hanging out in their yard with other neighborhood kids, playing touch football with the dad and admiring his collection of baseball bats in the garage. Oh, did I mention? This was the family of Henry & Barbara Aaron. Mr. Aaron played right field for the Milwaukee Braves baseball team and went on to complete a very famous career in sports, twelve years or so later eclipsing Babe Ruth's home run record after the team (and Mr. Aaron) moved to Atlanta. I don't know whether the people who sold their homes in a great panic when this family moved in ever felt their own foolishness and stupidity as strongly as this little boy felt it at the time. My mom and Gail's mom became friends and would occasionally spend the afternoons in each other's kitchens. The Aarons were the first African Americans I would ever get to know, and in some ways they were typical of any suburban family. But of course they really weren't typical in the least. ...more This book's description of the The Great Migration (1910-1970) of African Americans from the rural Southern United States to the urban Northeast, Midwest, and West is structured as the interweaving of three story lines. The first is a collection of oral histories from the individuals who experienced the Migration. The second is the telling of the biographies of three selected individuals who lived through the Migration. The third is an examination of newspaper accounts and scholarly and literary This book's description of the The Great Migration (1910-1970) of African Americans from the rural Southern United States to the urban Northeast, Midwest, and West is structured as the interweaving of three story lines. The first is a collection of oral histories from the individuals who experienced the Migration. The second is the telling of the biographies of three selected individuals who lived through the Migration. The third is an examination of newspaper accounts and scholarly and literary works of the era and more recent analyses of the Migration to recount the motivations, circumstances, and perceptions of the Migration into historical context. The result of this interweaving of story lines is a very readable history interspersed with many anecdotes that maintain the typical reader's attention. The combination of three story lines into one also makes the book quite long (543 pages plus 79 pages of Acknowledgments and Notes). But it's a story that needs to be told, and it deserves to be read. The following graph shows the percent of African Americans living in the south over time. The movement from south to north of six million African-Americans over a period of sixty years (1919-1970) had many of the typical characteristics of other immigrant stories. But they were not typical immigrants in that they didn't need to become naturalized American citizens; they were already citizens. But they were leaving a part of the country that did not give them the rights of citizenship. Hatred and fear of African Americans by white people in the South increased in the years following the Civil War. Over the post war years the rules and laws regarding segregation became more and more rigid and codified. It built up an anti-black environment in the South that certainly gave African-Americans plenty of reasons to want to leave. The examples recounted in the following extended quotation are almost beyond belief. All the while newspapers were giving black violence top billing. The most breathless outrage reserved for any rumor of black male indiscretion toward a white woman all but guaranteeing a lynching. Sheriff\u2019s deputies mysteriously found themselves unable to prevent the abduction of a black suspect from a jailhouse cell. Newspapers alerted newspapers to the time and place of an upcoming lynching. In spectacles that sometime went on for hours black men and women were routinely tortured and mutilated then hanged or burned alive all before festive crowds as of many as several thousand white citizens, children in tow hoisted on their fathers\u2019 shoulders to get a better view. Fifteen thousand men, women, and children gathered to watch eighteen year old Jessie Washington as he was burned alive in Waco, Texas in May 1916. The crowd chanted \u201cBurn, burn, burn,\u201d as Washington was lowered into the flames. One father holding his son on his shoulders wanted to make sure his toddler saw it. \u201cMy son can\u2019t learn too young,\u201d the father said. Across the south someone was hanged or burned alive every four days 1889 to 1929 according to the 1933 book, The Tragedy of Lynching , for such alleged crimes as \"stealing hogs, horse-stealing, poisoning mules, jumping labor contract, suspected of killing cattle, boastful remarks,\" or \"trying to act like a white person.\" Sixty-six were killed after being accused of \"insult to a white person.\" One was killed for stealing seventy-five cents. Like the cotton growing in the field violence had become so much a part of the landscape that \u201cperhaps most of the southern black population had witnessed a lynching in their own communities or knew people who had,\" wrote the historian Herbert Shapiro . \"All blacks lived with the reality that no blacks were completely safe from lynching.\"(pg 39) This is not from the book, but I'm including the following link as a point of interest that shows the number of lynchings by State, both black and white, from 1882-1968: http://www.famous-trials.com/sheriffs... It's interesting to note that lynchings occurred in non-southern states as well, just not as many. As with all historical events the details are complicated, and as can be expected there were many reasons for the Migration. Economic reasons played a role since they were able to find jobs in the North. Their jobs tended to be the least desirable ones but nevertheless better than what they left. Some historians find other causes such as the boll weevil infestation of the 1920s. Others raise the advent of mechanical cotton pickers. The author of this book suggests that when all the causes are considered the lack of freedom imposed on their everyday lives in the South was a dominate reason for their leaving. This book provides an up close look at the lives of three individuals that serve as example representatives of those who moved. One was a physicians who moved from Louisiana to California, another was a working class woman who moved from Mississippi to Chicago, and the third a man who fled for is life\u2014for attempted labor organizing\u2014from Florida to New York City. Their experiences were both good and bad, and the degree to which they maintained ties and interest in the community they left varied. I as a reader became emotionally attached to these three protagonist as the book described their efforts to secure a better life for themselves and their families. They were real life human beings, not the perfect heroines that I at first wanted them to become. They had their faults, made mistakes, and chose life paths that differed from my values in some cases, but they captured my heart. I shed a tear near the end of the book when I read of their eventual deaths. This is history with a personal human touch of an often overlooked part of history. I highly recommend this book to all readers who appreciate learning about human struggles for freedom and a better life. Members of the Great Migration, Chicago, 1918. (Chicago History Museum/Getty Images) ...more My grandparents migrated to California from Louisiana after WWII, and they - like the migrants described in this book - met their new world with a combination of wariness and determination, surrounding themselves with others they knew growing up, a vegetable garden in the backyard, recipes from down home, and family values that they passed on to their children and grandchildren. As a result of their choice to leave all that was familiar to them, I had better educational opportunities and the abi My grandparents migrated to California from Louisiana after WWII, and they - like the migrants described in this book - met their new world with a combination of wariness and determination, surrounding themselves with others they knew growing up, a vegetable garden in the backyard, recipes from down home, and family values that they passed on to their children and grandchildren. As a result of their choice to leave all that was familiar to them, I had better educational opportunities and the ability to fulfill my potential in a way that would have been unimaginable in their generation, and I am thankful for that. I am also thankful for the greater context and historical perspective in this book that help me to understand their decision, and the decisions of 6 million others like them, in a deeper way. I highly recommend this book for anyone whose family participated in America's Great Migration, anyone who grew up in or near the larger cities on the East Coast, Midwest, and on the West Coast, and for anyone who is just curious about American history and how the dynamics of American cities came to be. ...more An amazing story about the mass migration of blacks fleeing to the North and West in order to escape the horrors of the Jim Crow south. Isabel Wilkerson interviewed more than 1,000 people and spent years completing her thorough research. This work of non-fiction highlights the stories of three unrelated individuals, Ida Mae Gladney, Robert Foster, and George Starling in their journeys from Mississippi to Chicago, Louisiana to Los Angeles, and Florida to New York City, respectively. The atrocitie An amazing story about the mass migration of blacks fleeing to the North and West in order to escape the horrors of the Jim Crow south. Isabel Wilkerson interviewed more than 1,000 people and spent years completing her thorough research. This work of non-fiction highlights the stories of three unrelated individuals, Ida Mae Gladney, Robert Foster, and George Starling in their journeys from Mississippi to Chicago, Louisiana to Los Angeles, and Florida to New York City, respectively. The atrocities, injustices, struggles, and triumphs are well-documented and beautifully described. I also appreciated the little snippets from such prominent individuals as Richard Wright, Langston Hughes, Mahalia Jackson and others that preceded each new chapter. The ultimate question Ms. Wilkerson asks is \"Were the people who left the South - and their families - better off for having done so? Was the loss of what they left behind worth what confronted them in the anonymous cities they fled to?\" After educating myself through Ms. Wilkerson's efforts, I believe the answer to both questions is \"yes\". ...more Isabel Wilkerson is my new Hero!!! She wrote a remarkable historical epic!! (Ambitious)...Over 10 years of research. The stories are heart wrenching. She gives us an in depth education about the Great American Migration in this country ---and manages to keep us completely engaged from start to finish. I admit --I was a little worried that this book would be too long ---I would 'drift-off' pretty soon (I was thinking---\"I'll skip some parts\") >>> but I couldn't do it.... I read EVERY WOR Isabel Wilkerson is my new Hero!!! She wrote a remarkable historical epic!! (Ambitious)...Over 10 years of research. The stories are heart wrenching. She gives us an in depth education about the Great American Migration in this country ---and manages to keep us completely engaged from start to finish. I admit --I was a little worried that this book would be too long ---I would 'drift-off' pretty soon (I was thinking---\"I'll skip some parts\") >>> but I couldn't do it.... I read EVERY WORD. I also lost a couple of days of 'real-life' in the outside world ---(but I'll get it back) --- Things I got from this story: A much more understanding of the Jim Crow -racial caste system in the South. I had the honor and privilege to read about REAL STORIES --of real people in this country and what they REALLY went through. AND--- One must ask him or herself??? WHY the label \"Migration\"? --- (I don't want to give anything away). I LOVED the way Isabel Wilkerson wrote this book (for people like me) ---who were asleep --missing holes in their education ---She was able to keep me interested yet make a profound difference. I cried in several places --- (I just was so so sorry) With over 600 pages the only time I 'laughed' (as in OUT LOUD --a little relief maybe?) --was when sweet potatoes were on the loose on a train. My guess is ---many people (people I know anyway) will run away from reading this book....(fear it). TOO LONG they will say....(too many other books to read, etc.) --- but I'm still with tears in my eyes over the extraordinary work-dedication-skill-mastery-etc. that it took for Isabel to produce this book--- It was a-page-Turning book ---(I can't imagine it was an easy task to pull off)! I hope people read this book. READ it as if ---(you've all the time in the world). Don't worry ---YOU'LL finish it! Then you've give yourself 5 stars. (proud that you are feeling what you are feeling ---knowing a little more of what you know ---Thanks to this beautiful author) ...more Enthralling work of narrative nonfiction about a vitally important part of American history. I want this to be made into a show on HBO. This book tells the story of the migration of African Americans from the South, starting in 1915 and continuing into the 1950s and even until the 1970s. Millions of black people left the South and settled in the North and West of the United States, mostly in urban areas. In many ways they were similar to immigrants fleeing oppression from another land. \"They were Enthralling work of narrative nonfiction about a vitally important part of American history. I want this to be made into a show on HBO. This book tells the story of the migration of African Americans from the South, starting in 1915 and continuing into the 1950s and even until the 1970s. Millions of black people left the South and settled in the North and West of the United States, mostly in urban areas. In many ways they were similar to immigrants fleeing oppression from another land. \"They were already citizens. But where they came from, they were not treated as such. Their every step was controlled by the meticulous laws of Jim Crow...the violently enforced codes of the southern caste system.\" (p. 10). This book argues that it wasn't the wartime economy or the invention of mechanized ways of cotton harvesting that drove migration from the South, but, rather, as soon as people were able to contemplate having enough freedom to leave an oppressive system, many of them left. Just walked away from their extended families and the only homes they'd ever known, and started over in a jarringly different climate, with almost no money or resources. Because they could at least have a chance at freedom, instead of living in a culture where an average of every three days, a black person was murdered by white people and there was no civil or legal recourse. And, also, black people had worse schools and every other sort of facility even though they paid the same taxes. And they might go to jail for \"crimes\" like not working in the fields on a Saturday. This migration created, in effect, a leaderless civil rights movement, a walking away from an overwhelmingly wicked caste system. It made me contemplate the power of desertion, of saying no through just physically leaving a situation. It's definitely a form of empowerment. Wilkerson writes about the reaction of the ruling class when confronted with a dwindling workforce - from attempts to make it illegal to leave to letters to the editors of local papers admitting that perhaps people were leaving because if they stayed, they might be mistakenly lynched. The heart of this book is Wilkerson's detailed and engrossing accounts of the lives of three people who left: Ida Mae, George, and Robert. They come from different parts of the South and leave under different circumstances, and end up with vastly different lives. Wilkerson is interviewing them near the ends of their lives, which adds a dimension of sadness as they grow increasingly frail and sick. George, for instance, left Florida barely ahead of a white mob after attempting to organize fruit pickers to get better pay. He works as a porter on a train for much of his life and never finishes college. \u201cHere was someone who had been born too early and in the wrong place to reach his true potential, had left to make a better way for himself, but had seemed to carry the sorrows of the South with him, without complaint.\u201d (p. 513.) It\u2019s incredible how much injustice has been done in such recent history. In between these individual stories, Wilkerson talks about the overall trends of the migration and how people from certain states wound up migrating to the same cities, because of the way the rail lines worked and because those cities wound up creating their own communities of Southern expatriates. She also traces the problems of Northern racism and how that created the urban blight that goes on to this day \u2013 for instance, when people aren\u2019t allowed to live in most areas of a city, conditions deteriorate because of crowding and exploitative landlords. And then when people aren\u2019t allowed to work at most jobs, they have to turn to alternate ways of making money. This reminds me of both Nothing to Envy and Random Family , two other sweeping and personal books of historical narrative. ...more My Uncle Jerry appreciated this book so much that when he finished reading it, he sent me his hardcover copy through the mail in order to make sure I read it! I hail from Detroit, and some of my elders, there---knowing how much I read and write---told me it was an ABSOLUTE MUST-READ. Nobody lied! This book is a powerful, sensitive, exhaustively researched and compellingly composed and important work of \u201cnarrative nonfiction\u201d written by journalist-turned-griot, Isabel Wilkerson. It has been easy t My Uncle Jerry appreciated this book so much that when he finished reading it, he sent me his hardcover copy through the mail in order to make sure I read it! I hail from Detroit, and some of my elders, there---knowing how much I read and write---told me it was an ABSOLUTE MUST-READ. Nobody lied! This book is a powerful, sensitive, exhaustively researched and compellingly composed and important work of \u201cnarrative nonfiction\u201d written by journalist-turned-griot, Isabel Wilkerson. It has been easy to encapsulate, segregate, and over-simplify the black American experience in a way that says blacks were slaves freed by Abraham Lincoln in 1863 and afterward, made little appearances and contributions to American culture here and there until the great match known as the Civil Rights Movement was struck to flint in the middle of the 20th century, and now look! the nations\u2019s 44th President is an African-American man! Well, this book is here with corrections, enlightenment, celebration, mourning, and statistics. This American history of The Great Migration (1915-1970) connects the dots and fills in the blanks in a way that hasn\u2019t been done before. Imagine reading some novels by Zora Neale Hurston, Ralph Ellison, Maya Angelou, James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, and J. California Cooper folded in with oral histories, newspaper archives, census reports, and commissioned sociological research---thought about and written in a new way. I grew up in Detroit raised with southern black folkways and up-and-coming northern folkways. One side of my family left Mississippi in the first decade of the 20th century, later hooking-up with the other side of my family, who migrated from Alabama in the 1940s and 50s. Reading The Warmth of Other Suns is like being an Israelite and reading about yourself and your family in the Old Testament of the Bible! ...more The Warmth of Other Suns is a transformative book, one that can profoundly change and shape the way we view American history. The list of awards and accolades is so long the book does not need my imprimateur, but I will echo each and every one by saying, \"Read this.\" From 1915 to 1970, thousands of black Americans undertook a pilgrimage of hope and determination that led them from cotton fields, rice and tobacco plantations, from villages and towns in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky The Warmth of Other Suns is a transformative book, one that can profoundly change and shape the way we view American history. The list of awards and accolades is so long the book does not need my imprimateur, but I will echo each and every one by saying, \"Read this.\" From 1915 to 1970, thousands of black Americans undertook a pilgrimage of hope and determination that led them from cotton fields, rice and tobacco plantations, from villages and towns in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia to a new world in the north. They followed the trails and tracks of the Underground Railroad laid down by generations of escaped slaves and abolitionists before them, settling primarily in Chicago, Milwaukee, Gary, IN, New York, Newark and Philadelphia, Los Angeles and Oakland. It was, as the author states, \"...the first mass act of independence by a people who were in bondage in the country far longer than they have been free.\" (p. 10) It was an act of individuals and families - breaking free of the cruel grip of Jim Crow - that grew into an extended social revolution. It was perhaps the most significant event of 20th century America and few of us know anything about it. That Isabel Wilkerson is an award-winning journalist is evident in her intense, encompassing and rigorous research. She conducted over twelve hundred interviews and spent several years examining primary source documents, scholarly and literary works that witness, analyze and recount the beginnings of Jim Crow South in the 1880's, through the end of the Great Migration in the 1970's. But Ms. Wilkerson is also a consummate story-teller. The Warmth of Other Sons is one of the finest pieces of narrative non-fiction I have read. She takes the very difficult subject of Jim Crow - one that is so horrifying it is hard to absorb and accept- and humanizes it by telling the stories of three participants in the Great Migration. We ride a train north in the late 1930's from Mississippi to Milwaukee with pregnant Ida Mae Gladney, her husband and two small children, who abandon their lives as cotton sharecroppers and eventually make a home in Chicago's South Side. We escape from Florida's citrus groves to Harlem in 1945 with George Swanson Starling, who risks lynching by organizing his fellow fruit pickers to strike for higher wages. We travel the long highway miles between Monroe, Louisiana to Los Angeles, California with Dr. Robert Joseph Pershing Foster in 1953 and imagine a life of respect and glamour that surely awaits an educated, handsome, well-spoken black man- in diverse, liberal Southern California. Wilkerson weaves these narratives along parallel lines, taking us through each stage of the migrants' journeys concurrently, pausing to describe the social and political conditions that existed in the region or the era. Rarely have I read a non-fiction work that provides so complete a foundation and builds a structure without overwhelming the narrative in detail. The author tells these migrants' stories with grace and empathy, but does not sentimentalize or over-dramatize history. She presents the ugliness and horror of Jim Crow and the racism that existed in the North - where discrimination could not be identified by a set of written rules and laws, but was as prevalent and cruel as in the South - without making caricatures of its heroes and villains, as too often happens in literary works. One of the vital outcomes of studying history is compassion developed through greater understanding and knowledge. Although the Great Migration nominally ended in the 1970's, after the Civil Rights Movement of the previous decade tore away the Jim Crow curtain from the South, it is a story without end. We are a nation of immigrants, celebrating the American promise of life, liberty, and happiness, yet we remain divided by class, color, economics, education, and vision. We are largely integrated, but not always comfortably. Isabel Wilkerson offers a transcendent work that is epic in scope but relayed in the most personal, relevant way. It is the quintessential American story - perseverance and hope in the face of injustice and hate. With works as fine as Isabel Wilkerson's, it is my hope that history can light a way to a better future for all. ...more Review to come... I remember that even we, with as little money as we had, had three members of a local black family working for us down in Alabama on Chickadale Farm. John helped daddy with the chickens, Essie came and cleaned on Saturdays (when her \"sugar\" wasn't bothering her). And when she was down with her sugar, she sent Juliet. I was enchanted with Juliet. I don't remember specifically why I was enamored with her - I think it was that she was so young and these three were the only black people I knew (othe I remember that even we, with as little money as we had, had three members of a local black family working for us down in Alabama on Chickadale Farm. John helped daddy with the chickens, Essie came and cleaned on Saturdays (when her \"sugar\" wasn't bothering her). And when she was down with her sugar, she sent Juliet. I was enchanted with Juliet. I don't remember specifically why I was enamored with her - I think it was that she was so young and these three were the only black people I knew (other than Vera who would prick your finger if you went to see Dr. Hubbard). Then suddenly, Juliet was gone. Mother said she had moved to Detroit. I wanted to know why. She said that is just what young Negros do. \"The South has nothing for a young colored girl\" my mother told me. Detroit, Chicago, New York - they move there so they can make more money and be treated better than they are treated in the south. I have thought so much about that. Wondered about Juliet. Hoped she found something better than ironing our napkins and shirts and washing our dishes. This book is about that massive migration from the South to the hope of something better. The author uses 3 of the many people she interviewed for this book to make the point that black southerners were really just like the many immigrants to the major Northern cities who came from Italy, Ireland and Greece after WW I. The migration stretches over many years - from the 30s to the 60s. Blacks fled the south hoping to escape the \"white's only\" Jim Crow laws and mentality facing them in Alabama, Florida, Mississippi and the rest of the South - only to find that things were still tough and not all they thought it would be. The reason I couldn't rate the book higher was because at times it felt that the author was being paid by the number of pages. She repeated things that she had already said over and over. But the story was still important and the research seemed thourough and accurate. Glad I read it. But I have to admit, I read (or listened to since this was the audio book) with anticipation that she might mention Juliet from Alabama so I could finally know what happened to her, and it didn't happen. ...more How does one read this and not feel humbled, infuriated, and enriched, all at the same time? In a feat of investigative journalism and oral history documentation, Wilkerson traces the dangerous north and westward journeys of various African-American individuals yearning to create a future that is unfettered by the dehumanizing effects of Jim Crow. This silent, half a century-long revolution created giants such as Mahalia Jackson, Louis Armstrong, James Baldwin, Richard Wright, and its effects co How does one read this and not feel humbled, infuriated, and enriched, all at the same time? In a feat of investigative journalism and oral history documentation, Wilkerson traces the dangerous north and westward journeys of various African-American individuals yearning to create a future that is unfettered by the dehumanizing effects of Jim Crow. This silent, half a century-long revolution created giants such as Mahalia Jackson, Louis Armstrong, James Baldwin, Richard Wright, and its effects continue to echo in today\u2019s society. The book ties the human story of the migration with news reports on white supremacist violence in the US South, sociological studies on the emergence of economically depressed tenements in Northern cities, and rhetoric from politicians and intellectuals in their attempt to address the phenomenon. Just tremendous. \u2014 Kristel Autencio from The Best Books We Read In August: http://bookriot.com/2015/08/31/riot-r... ...more Beyond Powerful The Great Migration (1916-1970) is such an epic part of American history and the largest movement of a people; over 6 million African Americans relocating from the rural South to cities in the North & West. The years of relocation had a great impact on urban life and economic conditions in the United States. This book should be required reading for all middle/high school students. Adults should treat themselves to this wonderful book as well. \u201cThat the Negro American has survi Beyond Powerful The Great Migration (1916-1970) is such an epic part of American history and the largest movement of a people; over 6 million African Americans relocating from the rural South to cities in the North & West. The years of relocation had a great impact on urban life and economic conditions in the United States. This book should be required reading for all middle/high school students. Adults should treat themselves to this wonderful book as well. \u201cThat the Negro American has survived at all is extraordinary \u2014a lesser people might simply have died out, as indeed others have. \u2014 DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN,\u201d \u2015 Isabel Wilkerson, <+++>The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration</+++> ...more 25. The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration by Isabel Wilkerson reader : Robin Miles published : 2010 format : digital audiobook (22:42) acquired : from audible, on March 30, because of an essay by Jill Lepore read : Mar 31 - May 8 rating : 5 stars I was really carried away by this history of US black migration from south to north. The migration itself is interesting, six million African Americans fleeing the Jim Crow south over a period of 60 years, from WWI through the 1960's. 25. The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration by Isabel Wilkerson reader : Robin Miles published : 2010 format : digital audiobook (22:42) acquired : from audible, on March 30, because of an essay by Jill Lepore read : Mar 31 - May 8 rating : 5 stars I was really carried away by this history of US black migration from south to north. The migration itself is interesting, six million African Americans fleeing the Jim Crow south over a period of 60 years, from WWI through the 1960's. And the elements around and about it are interesting. But what made this book special to me is what how Wilkerson presented it. The book is mainly the history of three individuals she started interviewing in the 1990's, each representing a different migration route. The history becomes, or is derived from, oral history and the migration becomes a human story\u2014one of hopes and disappointment. Her three main subjects were Bob Foster, George Swanson Starling and Ida Mae Brandon Gladney. Bob Foster was a success, eventually. Raised in Monroe, Louisiana, he became a leading doctor in Los Angeles, and Ray Charles' personal physician (and the Doctor Foster in the song Hide nor Hair ). He lived a high life, and mostly estranged his family along the way. Wilkerson found George Swanson Starling living alone in a Harlem basement apartment. Unable to finish college because he lacked the funds needed to attend a school that allowed blacks, he later fled his central Florida community, where he had literally been targeted to be lynched after trying to organize orange grove pickers. He spent his life as the rough equivalent of a train conductor. Wilkerson's main apparent hero was Ida Mae Brandon Gladney, who she found in a Chicago inner city slum rife with crime and drug deals and violence. Ida Mae grew up in a share cropper community in rural Mississippi. She and her husband left when a relative was beat with chains for stealing turkeys, except that the missing turkeys had merely wandered off and would return the next day. Wilkerson builds a picture of the African American world in south in the 1930's, 40's and 50's, and then of the world they transported themselves to. Wilkerson calls them immigrants, even as she says they each balked at that characterization. But the comparison works in several ways. The migrants were largely southern rural naive transplants with limited productive connections, full of false hope and ripe for disappointment. And they left Jim Crow just to land in other heavily racist, and restrictive communities. As Wilkerson puts it, they didn't really benefit from leaving the south, but they did benefit in the act itself as an effort to control their own lives. But it's the personal stories that I really liked, the biographies, life stories, and the way Wilkerson tells them. She covers the same events several times, not from the perspectives of different people, but from the perspective of different contexts. We hear a story in some detail. Then it comes up again as someone's past, but she summarizes it as if the reader had never encountered the story before. The summaries add a few details, even as they leave most things out. And later she returns to the same story yet again from yet another context. And it works, actually it was a very effect technique as she used it, forcing the reader to rethink what we thought was familiar. I could write a great deal more about this book. There are numerous really important, fascinating and sometime horrifying details. I found the history fascinating, and the book humanizing, really opening up this world\u2014these worlds\u2014to us in full color. We only really get three stories, but the implications go so much farther. Not all reviews are fully positive. But I can only recommend this. ...more I simply don't have the appropriate words to relate the immense impact that The Warmth of Other Suns has had on me. I consider this massive book absolutely required reading for everyone that is interested in the history and experiences of African Americans. It should be required reading for every high school student. I could not have read this book at a better time in my life. With the imminent fall out of our recent elections here in America, it is vital that we remember the horrors of the many I simply don't have the appropriate words to relate the immense impact that The Warmth of Other Suns has had on me. I consider this massive book absolutely required reading for everyone that is interested in the history and experiences of African Americans. It should be required reading for every high school student. I could not have read this book at a better time in my life. With the imminent fall out of our recent elections here in America, it is vital that we remember the horrors of the many injustices against African Americans. We have to know of the abuses and the aggression against a group of people whose only crime was being born black in America. We have to know about the overwhelming disenfranchisement of the people who were thought to be less than human. We have to see the moral and physical subjugation heaped upon an entire race of people that inevitably created systematic damage that is still being felt today. Wilkerson delivers not only facts and statistics that are staggering and disheartening, but she delivers them with heart while revealing the humanity of the people who were quite literally forced from their homes and away from their families. Oftentimes fleeing in the middle of the night, without a word that they were leaving for fear of being forcibly tethered to a land and culture that had no respect for them as human beings and didn't value their lives further than the manual labor that they could provide. How devastating must it have been for free men and women to continue to have to 'steal themselves away' as if they were doing wrong in wanting true freedom? To have to literally drop what they were doing and flee from the promise of a lynching because they demanded fair pay? These examples are all the more unbelievable for being absolutely true and are made gut-wrenchingly relatable in this book. The Warmth of Other Suns reads like family sagas and not at all like dry and disconnected historical facts. There are many instances in this book were I had to pause to fight back tears. The correlation to the lack of generational well being (forget generational wealth) to the injustices an abuses suffered by African Americans living in the south post Reconstruction, through Jim Crow, to the Civil Rights era, straight through modern times and spreading throughout our country is so staggering that it is painful to experience even through the pages of a book. How can a people expect to move each generation forward when the rules are constantly being rewritten in order to keep one subjugated? The lines are constantly being moved literally and figuratively. From the lines of social acceptance to the literal lines of voting districts to create the greatest and most harmful disenfranchisement of African Americans. So many obstacles are being placed to hamper progress and prosperity. I could so easily write pages on the impact that this book has had on me, but I'm reining myself in now! I'll wrap up by saying that The Warmth of Other Suns is a brilliantly engaging, heart wrenching, and thought provoking book. This should be required reading for every high school student in America. I'm buying copies of this book for both of my adult children immediately. Don't be afraid of the size of this book, it lends itself beautifully to being picked up and put down. I read this over a few weeks by just investing an hour or two at a time, along with longer stretches of reading, while still reading other books as well. This is not only going on my favorite reads list for the year, but of all time. I will be thinking of this book for months down the line. As an African American woman myself, The Warmth of Other Suns makes me once again, pause and be grateful for all of the people who came before me whose triumphs came through their suffering. I am eternally grateful for those people who fought, struggled, suffered, cried, and died for the privileges that I have now. \u2022(\u2665).\u2022*Monlatable Book Reviews*\u2022.(\u2665)\u2022 http://www.monlatablereviews.com/ ...more You say it can't happen here? Well guess what? It did. By that I mean the repressive, nightmarish type of scenario we often see in dystopian fiction like \"1984\" and \"The Handmaid's Tale\". After the Civil War, the Federal Government stepped in and regulated race relations in the South. But this regulation only lasted a few years until the bile of the white South became too great to bear. Then followed nearly 100 years of \"Jim Crow\". Sometimes the words \"Jim Crow\" are followed by the word \"Laws\", You say it can't happen here? Well guess what? It did. By that I mean the repressive, nightmarish type of scenario we often see in dystopian fiction like \"1984\" and \"The Handmaid's Tale\". After the Civil War, the Federal Government stepped in and regulated race relations in the South. But this regulation only lasted a few years until the bile of the white South became too great to bear. Then followed nearly 100 years of \"Jim Crow\". Sometimes the words \"Jim Crow\" are followed by the word \"Laws\", and yes, there were laws which segregated blacks and whites.Yet if the word \"laws\" would lead you to infer a system of even-handed enforcement handed down by courts of law, think again. Jim Crow was terror, vigilantism, lynching. Few black men accused of crimes ever made it to trial. Angry mobs would storm the jails, kidnap the accused, and subject him to torture and death. And such accusations often had to do with offending the prevailing caste system, rather than the actual commission of a crime. A black woman was not safe from rape if a white man took a fancy. Slavery had ended in name only, as the agricultural economy continued to function on black labor compensated by bare subsistence (if that), After WWI, black migration to the North and West began, continuing until the late sixties, after the Civil Rights laws enacted in 1964 began to be enforced. Rather than continue to put up with Jim Crow, blacks moved on to greener pastures. All of this is the subject of Isabel Wilkerson's excellent book. What makes this book special, though, is that it tells the story of the migration through the eyes of three unforgettable individuals. There's Ida Mae Gladney who, with her husband and children, left the cotton flelds of Mississippi for the bustle of Chicago. There's the shrewd George Starling, who couldn't put up with the slave wages being paid to citrus pickers in Florida and for a time, was a de facto labor organizer. He left for New York at exactly the right time to escape a certain lynching, and ended up with a long career as a railroad porter. And then there's my favorite character in the book, Dr. Robert Pershing Foster, who leaves Louisiana, and later, leaves the shadow of his university dean father-in-law in Atlanta, to achieve success in Los Angeles. But no success ever seems to be enough for Foster, who is dogged by the resentments of a lifetime, even though he creates a successful medical practice and becomes the personal physician to Ray Charles. (Music fans: hunt down the Ray Charles single \"Hide Nor Hair\", which is Ray's tribute to his doc). Wilkerson, a New York Times journalist, is an excellent writer, and this is one of the best books I've read in the past year. Now only will you learn a lot by reading it, but the stories of Ida Mae, George, and Pershing will resonate with you for a long time to come. ...more<---C>Isabel Wilkerson</---C>", "Title": "The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration"},
