{"Comments": "3.<---F>75 Good read</---F>. Nice pace and a good bit of suspense. I enjoyed the main characters. The author writes well and I would continue the series. I especially want to know more about the God's of Pli. I definitely would not call this hard sci-fi. There where plenty of chances to add some scientific details, we don't even get to know about how these ships are moving in space or even what speeds they are going. Stuff like that is kind of glossed over. They just get to where they are going and then we a 3.75 Good read. Nice pace and a good bit of suspense. I enjoyed the main characters. The author writes well and I would continue the series. I especially want to know more about the God's of Pli. I definitely would not call this hard sci-fi. There where plenty of chances to add some scientific details, we don't even get to know about how these ships are moving in space or even what speeds they are going. Stuff like that is kind of glossed over. They just get to where they are going and then we are there. This also hurt the ending a bit when colonization was glossed over. So many missed opportunities! This would have gotten to 4.5 if it were longer by 50 pages and contained the science I crave! ...more I really enjoyed this book! The plot is straightforward: a strange spaceship is orbiting the Earth. Attempts to make contact with it have been unsuccessful. The main character, an ex-Navy Seal who is good at breaking and entering, is hired to cut into the ship. Also going along with him are a crew of trained astronauts. Once aboard, the mystery of the space ship further deepens when the crew discovers the ships very strange cargo. The only reason I didn't give <+++>Ghosts of Ophidian</+++> a full five stars I really enjoyed this book! The plot is straightforward: a strange spaceship is orbiting the Earth. Attempts to make contact with it have been unsuccessful. The main character, an ex-Navy Seal who is good at breaking and entering, is hired to cut into the ship. Also going along with him are a crew of trained astronauts. Once aboard, the mystery of the space ship further deepens when the crew discovers the ships very strange cargo. The only reason I didn't give <+++>Ghosts of Ophidian</+++> a full five stars is because it moves fast. Very fast. I guess that's a good thing,<---M> because the books holds your attention</---M>, but I felt like it was over way too quickly. It almost felt like a very detailed outline, or like the author felt he had to condense the story to just the bare bones to keep the reader engaged and entertained. It's a shame, because there is so much material worthy of exploration and detail in the story. However, that is my only gripe with the book, it was too fast, and although the ending leaves the book open for sequels, it wraps itself up tidily enough to be a stand alone book. I recommend Ghosts of Ophidian if you want a quick, interesting sci-fi read. ...more Interesting start but once into what should have been the meat of the story it just suddenly ended with the literary equivalent of a montage. It felt like the author rushed the ending to try to meet a certain page count or time constraint. There were also a lot of little details that made it feel like the author just didn't do the necessary research (e.g. a Navy Seal isn't going to call a magazine a clip; space agencies won't even let tourists go up without a little training). I loved this book because it reminded me a lot of a book that I wrote called... wait a minute, I wrote this book! I guess that explains why I loved it so much. What are the odds I'd hate a book that I wrote? Anyway, I'd highly recommend this book and any others written by this dude who has the same name as me. Excellent story Excellent sci fi story and a great plot. if you are into aliens and other worlds then this is the book to read. However it felt a bit rushed towards the ending but overall a wonderful story to read The characters and story showed real promise initially however about halfway through it fells like the author just sort of gave up. I am however, a big fan of sci fi that starts with the discovery of a mysterious object or spacecraft and the attempts to unravel the mystery behind it. This was a fun and interesting read however unlike Erinyes it wasn't a serious page turner for me. I liked the two main characters but they seem to fall in love unrealistically quickly and the ending was just \"BANG!\" it's over. This left me thinking the author just wanted it to be over. Sacha Another great read! I absolutely love these plots and story lines. I actually read this entire book in a day it was that good. my only suggestion is that you create more since I have read the majority of them or make the books longer as I CRAVE for more! pretty good read. author has neat ideas and good pacing. characters were a bit predictable, but had enough interest to carry the story. worth the buck, for sure I enjoyed Ghosts of Ophidian as an easy quick Sci Fi read. Not as developed as I would have liked and the ending just kind of petered out. It was ok. I give it three stars.<---A>Scott McElhaney</---A><---C>Scott McElhaney</---C>", "Title": "Ghosts of Ophidian"},
