{"Comments": "I probably would have enjoyed <---A>Kate Morton</---A>'s debut novel <+++>The House at Riverton</+++> more if I had not already experienced the greater expression of her writing talent in The Forgotten Garden . Riverton shares many of the themes of her later work, but with the narrator at a greater remove from the focus of the story, it tends to make her characterizations a bit flat. The story of the Hartford family, focused on the sisters Hannah and Emmeline is told by Grace, a servant to the family for many years. Her I probably would have enjoyed Kate Morton's debut novel <+++>The House at Riverton</+++> more if I had not already experienced the greater expression of her writing talent in The Forgotten Garden . Riverton shares many of the themes of her later work, but with the narrator at a greater remove from the focus of the story, it tends to make her characterizations a bit flat. The story of the Hartford family, focused on the sisters Hannah and Emmeline is told by Grace, a servant to the family for many years. Her unequal social relationship to the sisters keeps her at a distance and their experiences are relayed through her limited perspective. While I appreciate the detail taken to illuminate the differences in the lives of the social classes, it seemed to take the novel a long time to build up tension around the incident at the heart of the book's mystery. The last quarter of the book moved along well, but by that time many of the hints throughout the book had answered most of the questions, just the details remained to be filled in. The use of foreshadowing became a bit repetitive, giving the book the feel of a serial at times. When I reached the end of the book, I couldn\u2019t help wondering what it would be like if Morton had used the ending as a jumping off point for a story about Grace\u2019s later life. The book tantalizes us with interesting details about choices she made as a woman that seemed much more interesting to me. How did she transform from a Victorian lady's maid into an independent career-minded woman, exploring the world as an archeologist? What happened in her relationship with her daughter Ruth over the years? How did she and Alfred find each other after over half a lifetime and how had their relationship changed? Unfortunately we didn't get to experience Grace's character growth within the story itself. ...more An enjoyable story and a beautiful historical setting marred by clumsy story telling,<---M> overbearing foreshadowing</---M>, and an emotional disconnect with characters. The House at Riverton tells the story of a Manor House in Essex during WW1 and the beginning of the 1920s, told from the perspective of a housemaid, now 98 and living in an old people's home in 1999. When she finds out that a film is being made of a tragic event at the house - the suicide of a young poet who fought in the war - she recounts her memories leading up to that night, and the part she played in it. Of course, the story is not as simple as that, and many secrets have been kept for almos The House at Riverton tells the story of a Manor House in Essex during WW1 and the beginning of the 1920s, told from the perspective of a housemaid, now 98 and living in an old people's home in 1999. When she finds out that a film is being made of a tragic event at the house - the suicide of a young poet who fought in the war - she recounts her memories leading up to that night, and the part she played in it. Of course, the story is not as simple as that, and many secrets have been kept for almost 100 years. This book stayed with me for ages after i'd finished it. I found it quite haunting, and a lovely study of loyalty, family and the 'butterfly' effect that our decisions can have on other people's lives. ...more I wanted to read this book because it looked as if it had a lot of elements I really enjoy: Gothic type mystery, haunted house, family secrets, World War I, the 1920s. The book concerns sisters Hannah and Emmeline Hartford, aristocratic children who grow up over the course of the book. They chafe at the constraints of their class and find themselves floundering in the chaos of the 1920s. The other main character in the book is the narrator Grace, a housemaid at Riverton. She has her own unique c I wanted to read this book because it looked as if it had a lot of elements I really enjoy: Gothic type mystery, haunted house, family secrets, World War I, the 1920s. The book concerns sisters Hannah and Emmeline Hartford, aristocratic children who grow up over the course of the book. They chafe at the constraints of their class and find themselves floundering in the chaos of the 1920s. The other main character in the book is the narrator Grace, a housemaid at Riverton. She has her own unique connection to the Hartford sisters. Grace tells the story, practically from her deathbed as at 99, of the two sisters and how they witnessed a modernist poet commit suicide in 1924. Of course, things aren't really as they seem, and each of the characters plays a big part in the poet's death. So the premise was interesting, but I found the book to be kind of boring. It took too long for any of the secrets to be revealed and then when they were it was really underwhelming. I also wasn't a fan of the lack of denouement. ...more This book is a must read for lovers of historical novels and enthralling, well-written, atmospheric mysteries, The House at Riverton is a literary feast for those who love writers like Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan or Daphne DuMaurier and books reminiscent of The Forsythe Saga, Upstairs,Downstairs and Water for Elephants . In this page-turner of a novel, beautifully written and evocative of the era in England prior to and after World War 1, the author succeeds in weaving a complex tale of passion, This book is a must read for lovers of historical novels and enthralling, well-written, atmospheric mysteries, The House at Riverton is a literary feast for those who love writers like Margaret Atwood, Ian McEwan or Daphne DuMaurier and books reminiscent of The Forsythe Saga, Upstairs,Downstairs and Water for Elephants . In this page-turner of a novel, beautifully written and evocative of the era in England prior to and after World War 1, the author succeeds in weaving a complex tale of passion, jealousy and intrigue utilizing the past memories of 98 year old <---C>Grace Bradley</---C> and the secret she has jealously guarded for over 60 years. This jigsaw puzzle of a tale cleverly takes the various, seemingly insignificant, strands of Graces life and plaits them with the lives of other members of the Riverton household to form a lusterous braid with a couple of astonishing twists at its end. There is literally not a hair out of place in this fascinating journey through an era of crumbling social barriers and evolving English social morals and traditions. This book cries out to be made into a movie. As I read, I could visualize Kate Blanchett as Hannah, Judy Dench as old Grace, Kate Winslet as young grace, Gerard Butler as Alfred, Colin Firth as Frederick, Keira Knightly as Emmaline .....<---F>well you get the picture</---F>. (<---B>pun intended</---B>). I look forward with great anticipation to Kate Mortons next literary offering. In the meantime let me offer the following: \"if you read only one book this year, make it this one!\" ...more I wanted to like this. High drama and love triangles at the country estate of a rich family during the Edwardian era -- all ending in the famous suicide on the family estate of a post-war poet. What could go wrong? Well, as it turns out, it could feel like a cobbled-together collection of Upstairs-Downstairs stereotypes, played-out female character archetypes, and plot twists and sub-plots that, after lots of set-up, amount to very little. Also, the book is told in flashbacks, and there were str I wanted to like this. High drama and love triangles at the country estate of a rich family during the Edwardian era -- all ending in the famous suicide on the family estate of a post-war poet. What could go wrong? Well, as it turns out, it could feel like a cobbled-together collection of Upstairs-Downstairs stereotypes, played-out female character archetypes, and plot twists and sub-plots that, after lots of set-up, amount to very little. Also, the book is told in flashbacks, and there were structure and continuity problems that annoyed even me, and I think I'm usually pretty chill about that kind of thing. I just went online and noticed that reviewers disagree with me. They call it \"engrossing\" and the characters \"intriguing.\" Whatever. I stand by my story. It was lame. ...more This was a good historical read, it has a double story going on for the main character. I liked the good ending. I had such high hopes! Our heroine, Grace, now a feisty but failing 98, spent her early life at Riverton House in the service of the Ashbury family...and then spent her adult life trying to forget about them. However, she's contacted by a filmmaker about the mysterious suicide of a World War I poet that occurred at the estate back in 1924. Is the set of the Riverton drawing room accurate? What was it like being a housemaid? Does Grace have any insight into the circumstances of the suicide? Why d I had such high hopes! Our heroine, Grace, now a feisty but failing 98, spent her early life at Riverton House in the service of the Ashbury family...and then spent her adult life trying to forget about them. However, she's contacted by a filmmaker about the mysterious suicide of a World War I poet that occurred at the estate back in 1924. Is the set of the Riverton drawing room accurate? What was it like being a housemaid? Does Grace have any insight into the circumstances of the suicide? Why did the two Ashbury sisters never speak to each other again after the suicide? Grace may get sucked into remembering, but not necessarily into telling. For me this is the stuff of dreams...an English country manor, mysterious death, World War I...it should be a slam dunk! Alas, it\u2019s more like a shot that rolls around the rim for a while before someone else taps it in. Grace\u2019s flashbacks are nicely interwoven with the present, and, as always, descriptions of life in service underscore how different society was a hundred years ago. But while much of the story of Grace\u2019s interaction with the Ashbury family is compelling, it doesn\u2019t always ring true. People just aren\u2019t metaphysically \u201cconnected\u201d to each other \u2014 and across class barriers! \u2014 to the extent Morton imagines them. And some of the minor characters are merely caricatures. Of course the Americans are crass, insensitive, and materialistic \u2014 and naturally, that means they must be Tories \u2014 because IS there any other type of American? On the plus side, I liked the way Morton portrays the war\u2019s impact. And, in spite of a few \u201crevelations\u201d that were so obvious I think they were probably intentionally obvious (but if so, why??), the twists at the end of the book really do pack a wallop. What bothered me, however, is the way the two adulterous affairs that caused most of the grief were glossed over, as though being \u201cin love\u201d excuses everything, and it\u2019s just an unfair coincidence that destruction follows in the wake of bad choices. Still, this is only Morton\u2019s first novel, and I liked it enough to be hopeful about her second. ...more Me gust\u00f3 much\u00edsimo este libro . Amo el estilo de escritura de Kate Morton, y en este se lo puede apreciar al m\u00e1ximo. Las fotograf\u00edas nos obligan a contemplar a las personas antes de que su destino las abrume, antes de que conozcan su final . La historia empieza un poco lenta; me cost\u00f3 engancharme. En algunas partes tambi\u00e9n se me hizo un poco pesado. Sin embargo, la prosa, el marco y los personajes me hicieron mantenerme sumergido en las p\u00e1ginas hasta altas horas de la madrugada. A partir de la segu Me gust\u00f3 much\u00edsimo este libro . Amo el estilo de escritura de Kate Morton, y en este se lo puede apreciar al m\u00e1ximo. Las fotograf\u00edas nos obligan a contemplar a las personas antes de que su destino las abrume, antes de que conozcan su final . La historia empieza un poco lenta; me cost\u00f3 engancharme. En algunas partes tambi\u00e9n se me hizo un poco pesado. Sin embargo, la prosa, el marco y los personajes me hicieron mantenerme sumergido en las p\u00e1ginas hasta altas horas de la madrugada. A partir de la segunda mitad el ritmo se acrecienta. Olv\u00eddense de apartar el libro de sus ojos porque eso no va a ser posible. Tiene un final tan... tan... No s\u00e9. Fuerte, impactante, te da ganas de romper todo y gritar. Es una de las conclusiones que m\u00e1s me explotaron la cabeza. Una novela brillante. ...more \u00a1Me ha encantado!, es de esos libros que te dejan un buen sabor de boca y que ha merecido la pena leer. No cuesta leerlo pero s\u00ed engancharse. Al principio trata de contar como empez\u00f3 todo para entender la historia y eso quiz\u00e1s sea m\u00e1s lento, pero enseguida te enganchas a la trama y ah\u00ed ya no puedes parar. I liked the idea of this book but thought it was sloppily thought out and executed. (Stop reading here if you haven't read this book yet as spoilers follow.) I mean, really, Hannah couldn't throw the gun in the lake rather than shooting her lover? Grace couldn't tell Hannah that she didn't know shorthand and got someone else to tell her what the first note said? And why did Hannah think Grace knew shorthand, anyway? She put a lot of work into learning it herself . . . I don't recall her ever tea I liked the idea of this book but thought it was sloppily thought out and executed. (Stop reading here if you haven't read this book yet as spoilers follow.) I mean, really, Hannah couldn't throw the gun in the lake rather than shooting her lover? Grace couldn't tell Hannah that she didn't know shorthand and got someone else to tell her what the first note said? And why did Hannah think Grace knew shorthand, anyway? She put a lot of work into learning it herself . . . I don't recall her ever teaching Grace. In fact, it seems likely that most employers would have assumed Grace couldn't read at all. Also, why did Frederick let Grace's mother live in utter misery and solitude, and have no interest in Grace, if they had such a big love affair? The timing of Grace's latter day career, of her relationship with Albert, of her marriage, and of the birth and ages of her children was also never terribly clear. On the sloppy side, I think the minimal dates given for the duration of Grace's later relationship with Albert and the age of their son didn't match up. Much more irritating was the mention of Riverton Hall burning -- a whole wing plus blackening of the rest of the house -- followed by a visit by Grace and her (secret? why didn't she disclose the family tie?) great niece to an apparently completely intact house. It just didn't all fit the way it should have. ...more I really enjoyed this book and Wow! The ending was so shocking!! I was not expecting it! There were so many secrets in this book which made it very suspenseful! I just loved the characters, Hannah was very mysterious and Emmeline was very wild! Grace is a maid and she doesn't want to tell her story about The House at Riverton which is a film and they try to get information from her about her stay! There was a lot of deaths in this book, but of course there is going to be when Grace who is 98 tel I really enjoyed this book and Wow! The ending was so shocking!! I was not expecting it! There were so many secrets in this book which made it very suspenseful! I just loved the characters, Hannah was very mysterious and Emmeline was very wild! Grace is a maid and she doesn't want to tell her story about The House at Riverton which is a film and they try to get information from her about her stay! There was a lot of deaths in this book, but of course there is going to be when Grace who is 98 tells her story! I loved the secrets and thought they were thrilling and some very suspenseful. Its hard to write a review because I don't want to spoil anything! I did think the part when Emmeline went to the fortune teller and (view spoiler) [ the fortune teller's tarot cards kept coming up with the death card (hide spoiler) ] I thought this was really creepy and spooky! This was my first Kate Morton and will be reading many more. I was surprised that Hannah let her husband and his family control her! She was strong in the beginning and then became very weak! Of course with everything that happened I would be very weak also after finding out what she went through at the ending at how Emmeline had reacted! ...more 3.5 Wonderfully written, and perfectly set. A very english book. It had more passive drama than I would've wanted but it is a perfectly enjoyable read, Morton has a lot of talent and a beautiful style. I highlighted so many quotes, I won't even count them. Special for those with a taste of light mistery and sweet characters. Can't round the rate up to four because there are some twists any human can see coming. La casa de Riverton cuenta la historia de porque ocurri\u00f3 el suicidio del poeta Robbie 3.5 Wonderfully written, and perfectly set. A very english book. It had more passive drama than I would've wanted but it is a perfectly enjoyable read, Morton has a lot of talent and a beautiful style. I highlighted so many quotes, I won't even count them. Special for those with a taste of light mistery and sweet characters. Can't round the rate up to four because there are some twists any human can see coming. La casa de Riverton cuenta la historia de porque ocurri\u00f3 el suicidio del poeta Robbie Hunter y porque las hermanas Hartford estaban presentes. Es una historia bien contada, pero que tiende a irse mucho por las ramas para mi gusto. Creo que a todos los amantes de Austen y libros dentro del g\u00e9nero de esa autora les encantara esta historia de Kate Morton. Tiene personajes lindos pero sin mucho trasfondo salvo por nuestra protagonista Grace quien es una sirviente de la casa. La pluma de la autora es simplemente bell\u00edsima. El libro est\u00e1 catalogado dentro del g\u00e9nero \u201cmisterio\u201d y aunque si hay cierto misterio en la novela, no vallan con la idea de un semi thriller como yo porque no lo es. Y por lo mismo ciertos giros se ven venir a kil\u00f3metros de distancia y no impactan tanto, salvo el final que me gusto bastante y como se lleg\u00f3 a \u00e9l. Muy dram\u00e1tico pero de forma realista. Como me gusta. Una historia con ritmo lento pero que va acelerando conforme llegas al final, perfecto como lectura ligera en estas \u00e9pocas navide\u00f1as. Recomendado si te gustan los dramas ingleses bien hechos. Seguir\u00e9 leyendo a la autora. ...more Wonderful characters, setting, plot, I can't say enough. I was pleased that I was unable to guess the truth behind the secret at the end of the novel. I was surprised at the end which makes a work that much better in my mind. If you enjoyed Water For Elephants or The 13th Tale, you will like this work. A woman, from modern times, is in a nursing home and circumstances require her to remember her early years as a serving girl in a wealthy, British home during the WWI era. The author drifts back a Wonderful characters, setting, plot, I can't say enough. I was pleased that I was unable to guess the truth behind the secret at the end of the novel. I was surprised at the end which makes a work that much better in my mind. If you enjoyed Water For Elephants or The 13th Tale, you will like this work. A woman, from modern times, is in a nursing home and circumstances require her to remember her early years as a serving girl in a wealthy, British home during the WWI era. The author drifts back and forth between the times with ease, drawing the reading deeper into the story with each transition. Enjoyed reading a story from a servant's point of view, especially since Grace (the servant) still feels the need to protect her former employees even though they are all dead and she is in her nineties. Great work for lover of strong, well developed characters. ...more Wish I could give it 10 Stars My Musings Wow! I finished The House at Riverton a few days ago and I'm still trying to process my emotions about the novel. I loved, loved it since I gave the book the highest rating that exists here, but my emotions are still roiling. An omission of truth led to tragic consequences. But great British Gothic stories are almost always tragic, aren't they? I loved how Kate Morton paid homage to one of my favorite novels, Rebecca , Upstairs, Downstairs even my favorite d Wish I could give it 10 Stars My Musings Wow! I finished The House at Riverton a few days ago and I'm still trying to process my emotions about the novel. I loved, loved it since I gave the book the highest rating that exists here, but my emotions are still roiling. An omission of truth led to tragic consequences. But great British Gothic stories are almost always tragic, aren't they? I loved how Kate Morton paid homage to one of my favorite novels, Rebecca , Upstairs, Downstairs even my favorite drama, Downton Abbey and the The House of Mitford . I knew this fact before I read the authors answers in the novel's Q and A. And Kate Morton does a wonderful job of blending these influences to perfection. Morton's style reminds me of Daphne du Maurier , easy to read but powerful. She develops the characters so well, that I sometimes forgot that they are fictional. I'd love to meet every one of them, even Mr. Hamilton. She accurately depicts the Edwardian Era and her vivid description of Riverton made me feel that I was actually there with Grace and the Hartfords. Some reveiwers did not enjoy Morton's use of flashbacks, tapes, and letters. I did - I don't think Grace's story could have been told any other way. We readers too become archeologists peeling back layers upon layers to find out what happened on that dark, pivotal night by the lake when a young poet died and a family was forever changed. Summary A young film maker is doing a bio-pic of the Hartfords and Riverton . She learns that Grace Bradley was a servant at The House at Riverton and may know what happened the night that the young poet R. S. Hunter committed suicide. Of course the 98 year old Dr. Grace Bradley knows exactly what happened - she was there! And she knows the why. Will she tell Ursala? She does tell, but whom? But first Grace must tell what led up to \"the crossing the Rubicon\". It started when she was 14 and entered service to the Hartford's at The House at Riverton in 1914. ...more I loved this book insane amounts. It's everything I wished that Julian Fellowes' \"Belgravia\" had been able to be (although I did like \"Belgravia\"). It also gave me my Downton Abbey-time period fix without being overly soap-opera or unrealistic. The character of Hannah is one I adored and will think about for some time to come, as I will many of the characters. As I was reading, I found it extremely easy to assign actors to the roles in my mind, which I do enjoy doing - I obviously know the time I loved this book insane amounts. It's everything I wished that Julian Fellowes' \"Belgravia\" had been able to be (although I did like \"Belgravia\"). It also gave me my Downton Abbey-time period fix without being overly soap-opera or unrealistic. The character of Hannah is one I adored and will think about for some time to come, as I will many of the characters. As I was reading, I found it extremely easy to assign actors to the roles in my mind, which I do enjoy doing - I obviously know the time periods are totally off here, but I definitely saw Hannah as a Keira-Knightley-as-Elizabeth-Bennet, and Emmeline as a Carey-Mulligan-as-Daisy-Buchanan. I have a weird thing sometimes where I find the main protagonists boring (hi Harry Potter), but I also enjoyed Grace the maid as our narrator. I wasn't a big fan of the scenes at the elderly rest home, but those were so few in the big picture that it hardly mattered. Most of all, I was so excited to see that (for the most part) Kate Morton reigned in the tendency to tie up each and every loose end into a big ball of overly-happy ending. It's one of my biggest reading pet peeves when an ending is so perfect and happy that it's a little annoying or extremely unbelievable. I loved loved loved her latest novel, \"The Lake House\" beyond words, but she ruined an otherwise perfect book in the last 15 pages with an awful sickly sweet ending \"twist\" that didn't fit with what the book had been up to that point. \"The House at Riverton\" was her first novel, and she definitely had a near-perfect book with the right ending here - gloomy, gothic, a bit abrupt, atmospheric, with a twist that belongs. Wonderful. So, Kate Morton - hi! Hello! Love your books! Please don't ruin your endings anymore! Let them be organic! Thanks :-) I still have \"The Forgotten Garden\", \"The Secret Keeper\", and \"The Distant Hours\" on my Kate Morton to-read list, and after \"The House at Riverton\", now I'm even more excited to dive into them headfirst. ...more I had been excited to try a Kate Morton book for quite some time. I'd been so sure she'd be an author I love that I had already purchased four of her books. So it is with regret that I write this review. Sigh. I loved Kazuo Ishiguro 's The Remains of the Day . And I like Downton Abbey. So The House at Riverton seemed like a sure bet. It actually did feel almost like a mashup of The Remains of the Day, and Downton Abbey, but Riverton was lacking the things that make them great. The Remains of the Da I had been excited to try a Kate Morton book for quite some time. I'd been so sure she'd be an author I love that I had already purchased four of her books. So it is with regret that I write this review. Sigh. I loved Kazuo Ishiguro 's The Remains of the Day . And I like Downton Abbey. So The House at Riverton seemed like a sure bet. It actually did feel almost like a mashup of The Remains of the Day, and Downton Abbey, but Riverton was lacking the things that make them great. The Remains of the Day has so much character development. It has subtle yet intense emotion. But The House at Riverton felt bland. Grace was our narrator, but I felt nothing for her. She was too outside the story to make a reader feel connected to the sisters, but she also didn't give much of herself to make a reader feel connected to her. Downton Abbey is full of interesting characters and lots of drama. While The House at Riverton promised suspense and passion, the majority of the book was dry and dull. The suspense and passion here was confined to the last 100 pages, mostly only the last 50. The book is 470 pages long. That's way too much time to build up to a final scene of drama. I'm sure I'll try another Kate Morton book sometime. I've heard that her others are better than this one, but after reading this, they won't be at the top of my list. ...more I am listening to this on audiobook, and it is freaking interminable. I will finish it because I want to know what all of the heavy-handed foreshadowing is leading up to, but I just spent 20 minutes listening to the narrator figure out the identity of her father (ON DISC 10 of 16. FFS.)--a \"mystery\" whose solution has been blindingly evident to anyone with the most basic of comprehension skills since about Disc 2. Grace is so dumb. Seriously. Okay. I finally finished it. I'm not sure the final s I am listening to this on audiobook, and it is freaking interminable. I will finish it because I want to know what all of the heavy-handed foreshadowing is leading up to, but I just spent 20 minutes listening to the narrator figure out the identity of her father (ON DISC 10 of 16. FFS.)--a \"mystery\" whose solution has been blindingly evident to anyone with the most basic of comprehension skills since about Disc 2. Grace is so dumb. Seriously. Okay. I finally finished it. I'm not sure the final section of a book has ever taken so long. It might be because the book was due (ok, overdue) at the library and I REALLY needed it to be over, but I was enraged by the end of it. So many times I thought it was over, but NO. Also, Grace is an awful, awful person. Her desire to be BFFs with her employer turned her into a lying liar, which eventually resulted in her betraying said employer and RUINING EVERYONE'S LIVES. After that, I'm supposed to be excited that she becomes an archaeologist and lives to be 100, or whatever? Nope, still just super-pissed that she totally destroyed three lives. Seriously, most of the main characters die as a result of her actions. Grrrrr. I gave it two stars because some parts didn't suck. Read The Blind Assassin instead, though. ...more This is my second book to read by Kate Morton. I absolutely love this author. The House At Riverton has great characters and is basically just a great story which is extremely well told. I loved Grace\u2019s character and her telling of the story of the lives of the inhabitants at Riverton, both the descriptions of upstairs and downstairs in the great house and the various characters from both walks of life. The story is full of mystery and family secrets and had me hooked, absorbed and engrossed fro This is my second book to read by Kate Morton. I absolutely love this author. The House At Riverton has great characters and is basically just a great story which is extremely well told. I loved Grace\u2019s character and her telling of the story of the lives of the inhabitants at Riverton, both the descriptions of upstairs and downstairs in the great house and the various characters from both walks of life. The story is full of mystery and family secrets and had me hooked, absorbed and engrossed from beginning to end. Morton has a great way of weaving the story so that you think you finally have worked out the great twist at the end, but as usual, even with all my varying combinations of possible outcomes, I didn\u2019t guess the final twist, which was so simple, yet cleverly executed. If you love Downton Abbey or even the older programme, Upstairs, Downstairs, you will definitely enjoy this book. ...more Morton\u2019s novels are always fun reads for me and this one didn\u2019t disappoint. With shades of du Maurier\u2019s Rebecca and the BBC\u2019s Downton Abbey, the book was a wonderful mystery. We meet Grace at the end of her life. She is living out her days at a retirement home when she finds out a movie is being made about a dramatic event that happened in her youth. As a teenager Grace worked as a house maid at a large manor, Riverton, in the English countryside. A young poet committed suicide at the home one n Morton\u2019s novels are always fun reads for me and this one didn\u2019t disappoint. With shades of du Maurier\u2019s Rebecca and the BBC\u2019s Downton Abbey, the book was a wonderful mystery. We meet Grace at the end of her life. She is living out her days at a retirement home when she finds out a movie is being made about a dramatic event that happened in her youth. As a teenager Grace worked as a house maid at a large manor, Riverton, in the English countryside. A young poet committed suicide at the home one night and the mystery surrounding the evening has always left people wanting to know more. Grace decides it might be time to finally reveal the truth of what happened. Like all of Morton\u2019s novels, this one has themes of mother/daughter relationships, long-kept secrets and the English countryside. Grace\u2019s mother used to work at Riverton and we slowly learn bits of her history as well. After a few years at Riverton Grace becomes a lady\u2019s maid for the Hartford sisters, Hannah and Emmeline. Their close relationship allows Grace to give us a wide-view of the happenings in the house. As the years pass and relationships become more complicated the story reminds us that one man\u2019s happiness is another man\u2019s prison. I thought the relationship between Hannah and Emmeline was one of the most fascinating elements of the story. The relationship between sisters is like no other. It tends to be fraught with both love and jealousy, creating a strange and precarious balance. Morton captured this perfectly, allowing us to understand and sympathize with both sisters throughout the novel. BOTTOM LINE: I really enjoyed it. The Forgotten Garden is my favorite of her\u2019s so far, but I have a theory that your first Morton is always your favorite. This one was the perfect book to give me a Downton Abbey fix until I can watch the third season. \u201cReading is one of life\u2019s great pleasures; talking about books keeps their worlds alive for longer.\u201d \u201c\u2018No. Not a mystery. Just a nice safe history.\u2019 Ah my darling. But there is no such thing.\u201d \u201c\u2026for home is a magnet that lures back even its most abstracted children.\u201d \u201cIt is an uncanny feeling, that rare occasion when one catches a glimpse of oneself in repose. An unguarded moment, stripped of artifice, when one forgets to fool even oneself.\u201d ...more It wasn't my intention to buy \"The House at Riverton\". A salesperson at a local bookstore recommended \"The Forgotten Garden\", also by Kate Morton, but I wasn't sure if it's any good, so I said that I'll read some reviews first and think about it. And from what I've read, \"The Forgotten Garden\" is a must-read-gothic-mystery novel. I just had to purchase it. I told my mom about the book, and she was also excited since we both have similar tastes in books and movies. When me and my mom went back to It wasn't my intention to buy \"The House at Riverton\". A salesperson at a local bookstore recommended \"The Forgotten Garden\", also by Kate Morton, but I wasn't sure if it's any good, so I said that I'll read some reviews first and think about it. And from what I've read, \"The Forgotten Garden\" is a must-read-gothic-mystery novel. I just had to purchase it. I told my mom about the book, and she was also excited since we both have similar tastes in books and movies. When me and my mom went back to the bookstore for a mother-daughter-shopping day, we were anticipating for the bookstore to have copies of the book, but unfortunately, it was sold out after just a couple of days. (I forgot to call-in and have a copy reserved). And so, we settled for \"The House at Riverton\" since it was written by the same author and the story's equally interesting... And we didn't want to leave the store empty-handed. I was really, really, really excited to have it sheathed in clear plastic cover and get started!... And after just a number of chapters, I was genuinely trying to think of ways to procrastinate so I won't have to finish the book. But I want it to be ingrained in me to finish what I've started. So I begged my eyes to keep reading and not to roll around from boredom and disinterest, and dragged my fingers to turn the next page just so I can get to the end where the \u201csecrets are waiting to be revealed\u201d. But I must admit, I liked the way Morton wrote the last chapter (The Tape and Hannah's Letter). I was a little disappointed with \"The House at Riverton\". I like to read gothic-Victorian/Edwardian mysteries with a romance-gone-wrong twist to it. As written in the back cover: A STORY OF LOVE, MYSTERY, AND A SECRET HISTORY REVEALED... Set as the war-shattered Edwardian summer surrenders to the decadent twenties, \"The House at Riverton is a thrilling mystery and a compelling love story. I get the 'mystery' part, but it wasn't thrilling for me at all; Maybe because it was hinted at the first or second (or was it third) chapter that one of the sisters had something to do with the poet's suicide... or wasn't it? Although there were some scenes that got my mind working, I just wanted to keep skipping on to the next chapter for the most part. As for the love story... well, it's a given that in most gothic-mystery novels, the romance part is bound to end tragically, if not, in a macabre fashion (or some characters just end up in the loony-bin). But here, it wasn't the least bit compelling! I never felt the passion and tension between the lovers. Even in a scene where the lovers were meeting clandestinely, I was, in all honesty, preparing myself to be erotically stimulated, but just ended up scoffing. I wasn\u2019t very impressed with the writing and portrayal of the characters Grace and Hannah\u2019s sister-like friendship. The heroine and narrator, Grace, always talks about how she and Hannah are really close and how she was happy to be sharing each others secrets. But I just didn\u2019t feel their connection. It was, as if, Grace was just delusional. I was sighing with relief (and pride!) that I was able to finish the novel as I was just frustrated with almost every page of the book. And I know I won\u2019t be re-reading \u201cThe House at Riverton\u201d anytime soon... But hey, that\u2019s just me. In a way it\u2019s still a gothic-mystery-romantic novel in itself. Just see for yourself. Who knows, maybe you\u2019ll love it! ...more Entre acabar de ler o livro e escrever isto demorei! E demorei, n\u00e3o por falta de oportunidade, mas porque ainda me estava a recompor de toda aquela hist\u00f3ria. \u00c9 daqueles livros que sei que v\u00e3o ficar comigo, na minha cabe\u00e7a, durante muito tempo e que vou recordar as personagens como sendo pessoas reais. Porque \u00e9 assim que me sinto. Sinto que conheci a Hannah e a Emmeline e sinto que as vidas delas me passaram pelas m\u00e3os. Sinto que, em 1924 eu estava naquela festa e presenciei o \"segredo\". A hist\u00f3r Entre acabar de ler o livro e escrever isto demorei! E demorei, n\u00e3o por falta de oportunidade, mas porque ainda me estava a recompor de toda aquela hist\u00f3ria. \u00c9 daqueles livros que sei que v\u00e3o ficar comigo, na minha cabe\u00e7a, durante muito tempo e que vou recordar as personagens como sendo pessoas reais. Porque \u00e9 assim que me sinto. Sinto que conheci a Hannah e a Emmeline e sinto que as vidas delas me passaram pelas m\u00e3os. Sinto que, em 1924 eu estava naquela festa e presenciei o \"segredo\". A hist\u00f3ria \u00e9 brilhante e \u00e9 extremamente bem escrita. Nenhum pormenor \u00e9 descurado e o final \u00e9 brutal. \u00c9 de arrebatar qualquer cora\u00e7\u00e3o. O livro mexeu comigo e \u00e9, sem d\u00favida, um dos melhores que li at\u00e9 hoje! http://segredos_escondidos.blogs.sapo... ...more Es la primera que leo de Kate Morton y a su vez, la primera de esta autora. Me ha parecido entretenida, se lee f\u00e1cilmente y la ambientaci\u00f3n de la \u00e9poca es tan buena que me ha transportado directamente. Me ha recordado mucho a la famosa serie \"Downton Abbey\". Deseando poder leer \"El Jard\u00edn Olvidado\" y \"El Cumplea\u00f1os Secreto\" :) This was the first, but likely not the last book I read by Kate Morton. It is quite long, which put me off for a while, though it had been sitting on my shelf for a year or so. I read it for the November Book Pals group and have to say, I am happy I finally did. The story is part mystery, part historical fiction with some romance thrown in as well, so there is something for everyone:-) Partly written in the present and partly via flashbacks, it tells the story of Grace, a former housemaid at the E This was the first, but likely not the last book I read by Kate Morton. It is quite long, which put me off for a while, though it had been sitting on my shelf for a year or so. I read it for the November Book Pals group and have to say, I am happy I finally did. The story is part mystery, part historical fiction with some romance thrown in as well, so there is something for everyone:-) Partly written in the present and partly via flashbacks, it tells the story of Grace, a former housemaid at the English country house, Riverton. She is prompted to remember certain events that took place surrounding the family that lived at Riverton many years ago, by a film producer wanting to make a movie about a particularly shocking suicide that took place there. Grace mostly remembers through her interactions with the staff and the two young women who lived there. I enjoyed the story though it is a slow moving one, and though it wasn't entirely satisfying in some respects, I felt it was well done and engaging. Grace was sentimental but not sappy, and I found her voice to feel quite reliable. The ending was, for me at least, a little predictable, but that didn't bother me much. Morton obviously did her research and the language and atmosphere feel spot on. My only issue is that, on a whole, I didn't really connect with the characters. Their stories were interesting and well told, but at the same time I felt a certain level of distance. Maybe this is somewhat intentional, as commentary on the relationship between upstairs and downstairs, but I doubt it somehow, because we are not excluded from the intimate details of every character's lives, so it is probably just my personal feeling. All in all, I do feel I will be looking up some of Morton's other books as well, and have already been recommended \"Forgotten Garden\" and \"Distant Hours\", which both look intriguing. I have a sense that Morton writes books that could very well be adapted into mini-series:-) ...more Beautifully written like, The Shadow of the Wind, crafted like, Atonement, and very beloved like Downton Abbey!!!! In this book, Riverton is more than just a mansion in England; it's a character in itself. It's an upstairs/downstairs tale of a servant named Grace, the Hartford sisters and secrets kept. My favorite thing about this book was the writing. Kate Morton is very talented. She knows how to draw people into her books by character development and holding certain information. I loved the wa Beautifully written like, The Shadow of the Wind, crafted like, Atonement, and very beloved like Downton Abbey!!!! In this book, Riverton is more than just a mansion in England; it's a character in itself. It's an upstairs/downstairs tale of a servant named Grace, the Hartford sisters and secrets kept. My favorite thing about this book was the writing. Kate Morton is very talented. She knows how to draw people into her books by character development and holding certain information. I loved the way she ended each of the 4 sections. People ask me what type of books I enjoy reading and my answer will always be 2 things: amazing characters and beautiful writing. The House At Riverton is such a book! BEAUTIFUL! BEAUTIFUL! BEAUTIFUL! ...more I loved this book! I highly recommend it for fans of Kate Morton. It's her best one, in my opinion. I debated since finishing this book on what to rate it. Even now with having given it 3 stars I'm still wavering. I think perhaps it needs a half star more. It's not that it's a bad book quite the contrary but there were just so many irksome things that for me detracted from the book as a whole. The House at Riverton tells the story of the Hartford\u2019s, the sisters Hannah and Emmeline specifically through the eyes of Grace their housemaid and later lady\u2019s maid. The story is told through the memorie I debated since finishing this book on what to rate it. Even now with having given it 3 stars I'm still wavering. I think perhaps it needs a half star more. It's not that it's a bad book quite the contrary but there were just so many irksome things that for me detracted from the book as a whole. The House at Riverton tells the story of the Hartford\u2019s, the sisters Hannah and Emmeline specifically through the eyes of Grace their housemaid and later lady\u2019s maid. The story is told through the memories of Grace. Memories that are called to mind all the more with the recent movie being made. The story flicks between Grace in the present winter of 1999 and her memories of the events leading up to 1924. I have to say I enjoyed so much more when we were back in the early 1900\u2019s and into the roaring 1920\u2019s and I think Kate Morton did a great job of capturing that time and era. I liked the characters, some more than others. The character of Grace I loved and I\u2019ll explain why in a moment but first I must talk about what irked me as you will see why I loved Grace. I found we got so much information before the event that I\u2019m not sure it was all totally necessary. I felt we could have gotten a handle on Grace\u2019s character and her devotion to the family and in particular Hannah in far less chapters. I felt the story dragging for the first 3/4 of the book with unnecessary volume. When I look at the break down of the story the first \u00be of the book was given over to the lead up and only in the last \u00bc of the story do see the actual events that lead to the death of Robbie Hunter. I also found it a stretch to say this was a mystery. A doomed love story yes and I loved that Hannah finally fell in love with Robbie but a mystery, no for me it wasn\u2019t. The story in that sense was easy to figure out. What I can\u2019t figure out is why we were offered so many tantalising views of Grace\u2019s life after the event and that was not explored. I think Grace and her life were far more interesting. I think the events made Grace into the woman who was not afraid to train to be an archaeologist and even in post war Britain to become a single parent. The part I especially liked was hearing how she and Alfred met again. In whole I felt Ms Morton should have perhaps taken the idea she had for this story and just turn it on its axis a degree or two and begin the story with the events of 1924 and tell us about Grace and her life. ...more Childhood. Where did it all go? Our adventures? Our dreams...Small worries grew bigger and limitless. The world peeled away our childhood, our innocence leaving us exposed to rules, relationships and countless expectations. Like Hannah, I started to miss my 'black box' too. Did you? There were times I felt standing right beside Hannah, everytime she gazed out of the window, I would gaze longingly for some adventure to come and take her away from all those restrictions. I would yearn to tell Frede Childhood. Where did it all go? Our adventures? Our dreams...Small worries grew bigger and limitless. The world peeled away our childhood, our innocence leaving us exposed to rules, relationships and countless expectations. Like Hannah, I started to miss my 'black box' too. Did you? There were times I felt standing right beside Hannah, everytime she gazed out of the window, I would gaze longingly for some adventure to come and take her away from all those restrictions. I would yearn to tell Frederick everything Hannah left unsaid. I desperately begged Deborah to stop, and Teddy was just a bitter disappointment. Kate's vivid description to the early 1900s took me to a time and place where a typical British household could not run without servants. The grand manor, the vast gardens, the lavish parties, a male dominated way of life and amidst all this, Hannah' s yearning to make a stand, to live her life her own way. The House of Riverton ran on two things. On servants and secrets. The author describes how interestingly these two things affected the residents. This is the story of 3 \"wild\" children namely; Hannah, Emmeline and David setting out to live their lives. We follow them through the eyes of their maid, Grace. When you read this story you will learn how some characters take untold secrets to their grave, and how it affected the ones they left behind. You will want to wait (600 pages), as she unfolds her story between past and present, but the wait is worth it because this haunting story and the descriptions take you..they steal you away..... from yourself. ...more This is one of the best written and most compelling books I have ever read - the suspense and the way the story unfolds demonstrates that it is the journey and not the destination that matters. This story unfolds concurrently in the 1920s and 1999. Grace, in the 20s, is a housemaid and is promoted to a lady's maid. In 1999 she is an old lady living in a nursing home approaching death. The reader knows that Robbie McCourt, a poet, suicides at Riverton, in 1925, and we know that he really didn't su This is one of the best written and most compelling books I have ever read - the suspense and the way the story unfolds demonstrates that it is the journey and not the destination that matters. This story unfolds concurrently in the 1920s and 1999. Grace, in the 20s, is a housemaid and is promoted to a lady's maid. In 1999 she is an old lady living in a nursing home approaching death. The reader knows that Robbie McCourt, a poet, suicides at Riverton, in 1925, and we know that he really didn't suicide, that is the line given to cover up a scandal. Grace knows what really happened that night and has kept that secret her entire life - until now, in her final year of life, she decides to tell her grandson, through tapes, what really happened that night. Grace starts at the beginning, when she starts work at Riverton for the Hatford family. This story combines love, war, honour, family, money and scandals in an intricately woven web of deceit and secrets. This book has so many twists and turns that you never really know what is going to happen - only where it will end. This book is a page turner that keeps you enthralled in the story until the very last page when all of the story is finally revealed. I simply adored this book and I encourage everyone to read it! ...more 3 1/2 stars This is not too bad if you're looking for a fairly in-depth romance/mystery combination. It goes into quite a lot of detail about the moneyed classes and their household servants in England in the early 20th century. So many families were torn apart and so many lives painfully altered by World War I. I might have gone with four stars except that it's longer than it needs to be. That seems to be Kate Morton's style. Lots and lots of detail about domestic life. I also didn't rate it high 3 1/2 stars This is not too bad if you're looking for a fairly in-depth romance/mystery combination. It goes into quite a lot of detail about the moneyed classes and their household servants in England in the early 20th century. So many families were torn apart and so many lives painfully altered by World War I. I might have gone with four stars except that it's longer than it needs to be. That seems to be Kate Morton's style. Lots and lots of detail about domestic life. I also didn't rate it higher because it leans more toward romance than mystery, and I prefer the balance tipped the other way. There's one big revelation partway through the book that is so patently obvious right from the start, I didn't even consider it part of the mystery. The revelation at the end was a big surprise to me, though. It hinges on such a small misunderstanding that could have been cleared up so easily. How often were people's lives irrevocably changed by that stoic silence and fear of stepping out of line in the social hierarchy? ...more", "Title": "The House at Riverton"},
