{"Comments": "It had a lot less hip-hop than I was expecting, but I still really liked it. I NEED THIS BECAUSE OF REASONS aka I am Hamiltrash \"I heal all wounds but those which love hath made.\" - Inscription on an envelope to Eliza Hamilton from her husband Alexander. I have read many political biographies in my 41 years, but few better. Chernow is able to walk that narrow, tricky trail between scholarship and narrative storytelling without tripping over hagiography. He presents the largeness and improbableness of <+++>Alexander Hamilton</+++> without leaving out Hamilton's excesses and flights of paranoia and inflexibility. I think Chernow gets i \"I heal all wounds but those which love hath made.\" - Inscription on an envelope to Eliza Hamilton from her husband Alexander. I have read many political biographies in my 41 years, but few better. Chernow is able to walk that narrow, tricky trail between scholarship and narrative storytelling without tripping over hagiography. He presents the largeness and improbableness of <+++>Alexander Hamilton</+++> without leaving out Hamilton's excesses and flights of paranoia and inflexibility. I think Chernow gets it right that \"If Washington was the father of the country and Madison the father of the Constitution, then Alexander Hamilton was surely the father of the American government.\" He was a man who was infused with genius and energy, but also often tone-deaf to the political realities of his time. He was a man who knew government but was often ungovernable himself. His talents built the frameworks that would later create both our nation's economic, government and military capacity as well as the Federalist party, however, those same skills would also help to tear down the Federalist party because of Hamilton's inability to bend or just shut up. Like those prophets that seem to gain strength and honor as the world shifts and slides into alignment with their oracle-like vision, the modern world seems able to identify and honor Hamilton because in many ways HE made it. Chernow's biography paints the details of Hamilton's life with a vision of just how incredible a figure Hamilton was, and how his talents often unsettled those around him. Chernow also frames Hamilton around those important founding fathers that contributed to Hamilton's rise (Washington),<---M> fall (Jefferson</---M>, Madison, Adams), and death (Burr) while also showing how Alexander Hamilton also contributed to his own rise, fall, and death. One of my favorite easter eggs from this tome was a remark Burr once made after shooting Alexander Hamilton. Chernow relates that \"Only once did Burr betray any misgivings about killing Hamilton. While reading the scene in Laurence Sterne's Tristram Shandy [an amazing book, which I recommend everyone read, btw] in which the tenderhearted Uncle Toby picks up a fly and delicately places it outside the window instead of killing it, Burr is said to have remarked, \"Had I read Sterne more and Voltaire less, I should have known the world was wide enough for Hamilton and me.\" Anyway, an amazing man is never really captured, but this biography comes pretty close. * Saw Hamilton the Musical on July 12 (so after Lin-Manuel Miranda and Leslie Odom, Jr left, but before Daveed Diggs left) and it was kinda amazing. ...more I\u2019ve been wracking my brains literally for months trying to figure out who I can compare Alexander Hamilton to on the modern politocelebrity scene (or \u201cto whom I can compare\u201d him, if you douchey grammar wonks prefer). There are two reasons that process has taken months: 1) I\u2019m currently operating with the mental processing power of an old Radio Shack TRS-80 (on the plus side, I guess that means I can run awesome software like Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing!) and 2) Alexander Hamilton was one unique I\u2019ve been wracking my brains literally for months trying to figure out who I can compare Alexander Hamilton to on the modern politocelebrity scene (or \u201cto whom I can compare\u201d him, if you douchey grammar wonks prefer). There are two reasons that process has taken months: 1) I\u2019m currently operating with the mental processing power of an old Radio Shack TRS-80 (on the plus side, I guess that means I can run awesome software like Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing!) and 2) Alexander Hamilton was one unique son of a Scottish laird. Put Kanye West, Noam Chomsky, Donald Trump, and Steve Martin into a blender and what do you get? Well, probably a pretty disgusting slurry of liquefied body parts. Let me rephrase: put the personalities, intellects, and quirkiest components (not to mention the thin skin, in some cases) of Kanye, Noam Chomsky, Donald Trump, and Steve Martin into a personality, intellect, and quirk-blending processor and what do you get? Something that comes out looking, but hopefully not smelling (given that gents of that vintage probably didn\u2019t smell so fresh after a hot summer day traipsing about in heavy, unwashed woolen garments), a little bit like Alexander Hamilton. (I\u2019d be willing to wager that\u2019s the first time anyone anywhere ever has used both Noam Chomsky and Donald Trump as a comparison for an individual; that\u2019s how singular Hamilton was. And how much of a trailblazer I am.) Smarter people than I have written at great length about this book and its subject, so I shan\u2019t prattle on for pages and pages. Suffice it to say, Alexander Hamilton is as influential a person as there is when it comes to shaping U.S. political history and the institutions that affect our lives every single day, and he was, perhaps, even more unique than he was influential. Sure, this book could replace the candlestick in the game of Clue just as easily as it can be an educational tool (\u201cIt was Colonel Mustard in the library with his copy of Hamilton that bludgeoned poor Professor Plum to death!\u201d). But, there are few biographies of recent vintage that can match the immense scope, mind-boggling level of detail, and compulsive readability of this one. If you\u2019re a history buff in any way (or just want to see what all the Broadway hubbub is about), you\u2019ll want to give this book a whirl. (A couple of words of warning, however: first, if you\u2019re a Thomas Jefferson acolyte, you might want to brace yourself; Mr. Chernow does not treat our country\u2019s second Vice President\u2014and lifelong Hamilton rival\u2014kindly, styling him a scheming, Francophile bon vivant of the most pernicious kind (though, really, if you\u2019re going to be a scheming bon vivant, you might as well be of the most pernicious kind\u2014otherwise, you\u2019re just half-assing it, and if I believe anything, it\u2019s that anything worth doing is worth whole-assing). Second, if ever a man was on another man\u2019s (metaphorical) nuts, it is <---A>Ron Chernow</---A> on Alexander Hamilton\u2019s. There are a few instances in which Mr. Chernow attempts to maintain a fa\u00e7ade, or at least a veneer (do we think a veneer is thinner than a fa\u00e7ade?), of scholarly distance and objectivity, but, by and large, his Hamiltonian hard-on is of such obvious and epic proportions that, I\u2019m told, the Washington Monument has expressed concerns to the Mayor of Washington, DC, that when Chernow visits our nation\u2019s capital, he\u2019s in violation of the Height of Buildings Act of 1910. The Mayor has thus far refused comment, though a source indicates that he has, at the very least, asked that Mr. Chernow not wear sweat pants when he visits the District, and has asked him to, and I quote, \u201ctry to tuck it into his belt.<---F>\u201d) We\u2019ll call this a strong 4</---F>.5 stars. ...more Like a lot of people I\u2019ve been listening to the Hamilton musical album non-stop and read this because it was the source of Lin-Manuel Miranda\u2019s inspiration to create the brilliant Broadway show. The idea that a dense biography of an American Founding Father who was probably best known to the general public as the guy on the the ten dollar bill and the subject of a pretty funny Got Milk? commercial would someday lead to the creation of an incredibly popular musical that blends show tunes with hip Like a lot of people I\u2019ve been listening to the Hamilton musical album non-stop and read this because it was the source of Lin-Manuel Miranda\u2019s inspiration to create the brilliant Broadway show. The idea that a dense biography of an American Founding Father who was probably best known to the general public as the guy on the the ten dollar bill and the subject of a pretty funny Got Milk? commercial would someday lead to the creation of an incredibly popular musical that blends show tunes with hip-hop is only a little less likely than the life of Alexander Hamilton himself. (And if you\u2019re interested in reading a great account of the impact the show has on people I highly recommend this article that sportswriter Joe Posnanski wrote about taking his daughter to see it.) The circumstances of Hamilton\u2019s birth on a Caribbean island as the illegitimate son of a divorced woman and a fortune seeking Scotsman were the first strike against him, and things only got worse when his father abandoned him and his mother died. As an orphan with no money and an embarrassing social status for the time young Alexander probably should have lived a short, hard life and been forgotten by history. However, he also had a brilliant mind, a talent for writing, and an enormous appetite for work that was fueled by relentless ambition. After a hurricane devastated his island Hamilton wrote an account of the tragedy so moving that a collection was taken up to send him to America to attend college. Hamilton arrived in New York just as the American Revolution was about to start, and his talents landed him a pivotal position on <---C>George Washington</---C>\u2019s staff as well leading troops in the field and playing a key role during the Battle of Yorktown that essentially won the war. Hamilton\u2019s role in the writing of The Federalist with James Madison and John Jay along with his political maneuvering was critical in getting the Constitution ratified. HIs biggest contributions to the United States probably came from his bold actions as the first secretary of the treasury when he not only got the young nation on sound economic footing but also used money as a tool to link the fates of the frequently bickering states together as a way of achieving unity and promoting a strong federal government. As Washington\u2019s most trusted advisor Hamilton was critical in shaping the future of the country he did so much to help create. All of this should have meant that Hamilton would be remembered as one of the most important figures in American history but he also made powerful enemies including Thomas Jefferson. The struggle between those who believed power should reside in the federal government or with the states became a bitter fight in which Hamilton was the victim of relentless political attacks that slandered his reputation and made him a perpetual lightning rod of controversy. The conflict would lead to the creation of the two party political system as well as a constant tug of war between factions about how much authority the American government should have that continues today. Hamilton frequently didn\u2019t do himself any favors with his outspoken nature, and his insecurities about his illegitimacy caused him to be hypersensitive to insults. His basic cynicism and mistrust of people made him wary of popular trends and leaving the fate of America in the hands of the general public who he felt could be too easily swayed by a mob mentality and demagogues. (Geez, where could he have gotten that idea?) This left him vulnerable to attacks by his enemies who smeared him as an elitist at best or a schemer plotting to return America to English control or set up an American monarchy at worst. He badly hurt his own political party by feuding with President John Adams who became another enemy who would smear Hamilton long after his death. Hamilton also had the distinction of being one of the first American politicians to be caught up in a sex scandal, and his reaction to it by publishing a tell-all memoir called The Reynolds Pamphlet was a miscalculation that severely damaged his public image. Propaganda from his enemies and his own combative nature and thin skin hurt his standing during his life and limited his political prospects. When his long and complex relationship with Aaron Burr ultimately led to Hamilton\u2019s death after their infamous duel his enemies would continue to slander his reputation while his widow Eliza would spend the rest of her life defending it and try to make sure his accomplishments weren\u2019t forgotten. What Chernow has done with this sympathetic portrait of a brilliant but flawed man is illustrate how America owes so much to Hamilton\u2019s genius. By detailing Hamilton\u2019s collaborations and battles with the other Founding Fathers it shows that they weren\u2019t saints with some glorious vision of what America should be. They engaged in compromises and accepted contradictions in the interests of getting things done, and they were consumed by the fears of all the ways the country could fail. They were also just as capable of acting in short-sighted, mean spirited, and despicable ways as any politician today, Thomas Jefferson in particular comes across as a hypocritical sneaky jerkface that I would never vote for. After reading this it\u2019s easy to understand how Hamilton the remarkable person inspired Hamilton the remarkable musical. ...more At what point do you realize that you're in too deep because right now I'm crying actual tears over A. Ham and gosh dang it this is powerful you guys. ALLOW ME TO EXPLAIN TO YOU A THING. Yes, the Broadway musical Hamilton lead me here. I can't say I'd have such a rabid interest in all things Alexander Hamilton/founding fathers if not for that weird collection of hip-hop musical numbers. But the more I read this the more I loved it for itself and the story it tells. Dang, but I need to read more At what point do you realize that you're in too deep because right now I'm crying actual tears over A. Ham and gosh dang it this is powerful you guys. ALLOW ME TO EXPLAIN TO YOU A THING. Yes, the Broadway musical Hamilton lead me here. I can't say I'd have such a rabid interest in all things Alexander Hamilton/founding fathers if not for that weird collection of hip-hop musical numbers. But the more I read this the more I loved it for itself and the story it tells. Dang, but I need to read more biographies -- hopefully there's more written like this. This paints a very vivid picture of one of the most underrated historical figures (that I'm aware of). It puts you right in the middle of his childhood, lets you laugh and be impressed by his non-stop (see what I did there) ambition, ramps up the tension, brings you to an achingly raw conclusion that had me in tears at 1 in the morning because it's so bitter and so beautiful all at once. Judging by this, Lin-Manuel Miranda captured these men and women perfectly in his musical. The American Revolution was full of eccentric, larger-than-life characters. I never knew that before. Like, heck, when do you ever hear that Thomas Jefferson was a France-loving cocky jerk? That Hamilton literally could. not. shut. up.? That George Washington had a temper and wasn't that great to be around? This was a fascinating study of human nature and people and opened up a whole world I never heard about until now. I think that's a shame. I want to take a moment to talk about the duel between Burr and Hamilton. The tension between the two men rose through the entire book, until it got to the point where even in a non-fiction work I could FEEL the tension, the honor, and rising emotion. It was inevitable that they would have to duel -- Hamilton just kept pushing buttons, and brought everything to a head. Burr snapped. The way the duel is written here paints it in such a way that I could SEE it, the details, Hamilton's glasses, the cold look on Burr's face, everything. I knew it was coming but it still hurt. I just can't even, guys. Alexander Hamilton is one of the more interesting historical figures I've ever read about, now that I look at it. He kept screwing up, kept fighting, kept talking. He was INCREDIBLY flawed. To watch him work so hard, work himself to the point of being ill most of the time, to see him try and fail and never stop, had me rooting for him even though he made some of the most questionable decisions possible in the process. To see that man repent and be saved on his deathbed made me cry harder than ever, because that so perfectly sums up life and what I believe. I never realized it before and it was such a bittersweet way to end. And then, of course, we have Eliza, who you NEVER hear about despite the fact that she was pretty freaking hardcore, y'all. Even if you don't have any interest in the musical Hamilton, you should definitely read this. I do believe this is pretty important, as biographies go. ...more I have now read the Hamiltome. (I know that's what people call the book Lin-Manuel Miranda wrote about the musical, but seriously, this thing could stop bullets.) I wouldn't have picked this book up if it weren't for the musical, and it wasn't exactly light reading, but I'm glad that I did. Before I did, I was kinda sure that Hamilton was the guy who was shot by Aaron Burr, and pretty sure he'd never been president, and if I thought for a second I'd remember that he was on the $10 bill. Now I kn I have now read the Hamiltome. (I know that's what people call the book Lin-Manuel Miranda wrote about the musical, but seriously, this thing could stop bullets.) I wouldn't have picked this book up if it weren't for the musical, and it wasn't exactly light reading, but I'm glad that I did. Before I did, I was kinda sure that Hamilton was the guy who was shot by Aaron Burr, and pretty sure he'd never been president, and if I thought for a second I'd remember that he was on the $10 bill. Now I know so much more. Like that he founded the Coast Guard, and the first national bank. That he wrote most of Washington's speeches as president, and dispatches during the war. I know how influential he was to politics, to industry and banking, and to the law. And he did it all by the time he was killed at 49 by Aaron Burr, who, frankly, was an asshole. (Anybody who writes detailed letters about his sexual conquests to his own daughter is an asshole. And that's not all he did.) This was an excellent, and exhaustingly thorough biography. I didn't give it five stars because, well, it's not exactly light reading. I wouldn't pick it up again, and I will recommend it to hardcore history buffs and not necessarily your average reader. But it shed a lot of light on the early days of our country, it gave me a new appreciation for Hamilton, Washington, and others. And a healthy dislike of Jefferson, as well as John Adams, who I swear to Odin had to have been bipolar. I have no regrets about reading it, am in fact very glad that I read it. It did make me yearn for a book all about Eliza Hamilton, though. Honestly, a book just about Alexander and Eliza's family life would be fascinating, but impossible, since she really did burn all her letters. And, musical fans: Yes, Lin-Manuel has taken liberties with storyline and whatnot. And that's okay. If you really want to know the truth, here's the book for you. If you'd rather sit back and enjoy a cabinet battle all in rap, you know where to go. All hail the self-starter, the ten dollar Founding Father. HAMILTON! ...more If they break this Union, they will break my heart. ~Alexander Hamilton If anybody had told me a year ago that I would be delving into an 800 page biography on arguably America's least known Founding Father, first Secretary of the Treasury and he of ten dollar bill fame, I would have said they were crazy. But like so many people who will read this book in the coming years, it all started with a mad love affair for the Broadway musical . It's literally all I've been able to think about (or listen t If they break this Union, they will break my heart. ~Alexander Hamilton If anybody had told me a year ago that I would be delving into an 800 page biography on arguably America's least known Founding Father, first Secretary of the Treasury and he of ten dollar bill fame, I would have said they were crazy. But like so many people who will read this book in the coming years, it all started with a mad love affair for the Broadway musical . It's literally all I've been able to think about (or listen to) since April. It's consumed my waking hours in the oddest, most unpredictable, joyous of ways. Having now read Chernow's impressive, meticulously researched book, I am no longer surprised how it was able to inspire Lin-Manuel Miranda to write his extraordinary, beautiful, emotional, smart, searing, perfect musical (and that's all I'm going to say about the musical), because I really want this review to focus on Chernow's accomplishment and his fascinating subject -- Alexander Hamilton. One of the things that really jumped out at me while reading this, is how easily Hamilton's remarkable life and stupendous achievements could have been erased and lost to history for good. He had many enemies -- many people who wanted to re-write history minimizing his role in it, and deny his many staggering contributions. Hamilton died relatively young as well (just 49), way younger than many of the other Founding Fathers who outlived him by decades (except George Washington of course). When you don't survive to live and tell your story, you are really at the mercy of others. Remember this line from Braveheart? \"History is written by those who have hanged heroes.\" Was Alexander Hamilton a hero? I think by most definitions he most certainly was. Flawed for sure, but nevertheless an extremely intelligent man, with confounding reserves of energy and ambition, and a deep, abiding inner moral compass of what was ethical and right. He also possessed an unsurpassed, formidable ability to synthesize large, complicated ideas into accessible tracts and tangible plans to build meaningful and lasting governments and institutions. And oh yeah, he also wielded his pen in a terrible and mighty way that would have made Shakespeare quiver in his breeches, producing mountains of passionate and fiercely written letters and pamphlets and essays. I also have to believe Hamilton was truly a good man, because two very intelligent women, remarkable in their own rights (his wife Eliza and his sister-in-law Angelica Church), loved him beyond measure and sang his praises for a lifetime. How do you avoid getting written out of history by those who have hanged heroes? Write brilliantly like a maniac non-stop, leaving behind some of the most important historical tracts ever penned, and be survived by a loyal and dedicated wife who will outlive you by 50 years and spend most of that time fighting for your reputation and the preservation of your rightful place in history. Reading Hamilton whilst the sturm und drang of the upcoming American election rages in all its frightful rhetoric and bitter partisan vitriol has made for quite an echo chamber of America's shaky, fledgling, post-Revolutionary days and just how tenuous the fabric that binds all the States together really is. It was never a marriage made in heaven, oftentimes held together by duct tape, threats and sheer iron will. America was a walking contradiction, with its State vs Federal, rural vs urban, North vs South, slaveholding vs free divides. Nobody knew (and feared) these fractures more than Hamilton himself. But he also knew a United States would be stronger and better than a dissolute nation of independents jockeying for power and control and consumed with self-interest. I do believe Chernow has proven that no other Founding Father worked as determinedly with every cell in his body (and top-notch brain), to preserve the Union, and uphold the Constitution. There were many compelling forces, and influential personalities, with the capability to topple this marvelous enterprise with a single huff, and one good blow. But it was Hamilton standing vigilant, it was Hamilton who roared, and cajoled, and screed, not on my watch, and here's why. It's also no wonder then that on his death bed, surrounded by his family and friends, that Hamilton should utter with such deep feeling: \"If they break this Union, they will break my heart.\" Hamilton's life (all 49 years of it) reads like a Dickensian novel. More than once while I was reading I couldn't help but smack my forehead at the stranger than fiction details, and uncanny coincidences and twists of fate both tragic and ironic. That he began his life as a poor orphan in the Caribbean only to help fight for and build a nation an ocean away is something out of a movie plot. As is his infamous death by duel, at the hands of (then Vice President) Aaron Burr (sir). Who dies in a duel?!! Hamilton does. And a few years prior to that fateful meeting in Weehawken, his eldest son Philip (using the same pistols!) would die the same stupid way. There were many times when I wanted to shake Hamilton, and kick him, especially when he was tomcatting around and cheating on Eliza with Maria Reynolds, but this final decision to duel with Aaron Burr absolutely infuriated me. It was SO UNNECESSARY, especially given the fact Hamilton still had a wife and young children who depended on him. Of course, it was a dueling era, and duels were pretty commonplace, and Chernow makes a strong case that Hamilton wasn't suicidal, and really believed he could survive the duel with Burr (as most participants do). However, there was also a part of him that knew he could die, since he was so thorough and conscientious in his handling of his affairs. And writing a poignant, final letter to Eliza (which if I had been her I'm sure I would have pulled my hair out). Alexander knew how utterly devastated Eliza was to lose their son Philip -- so HOW COULD HE DO THAT TO HER AGAIN??? Eliza should have been crushed by the grief -- losing her mother, her sister, her son, her HUSBAND, all in a very short time span. Yet she persevered and would survive to accomplish many remarkable things in her own right, not the least of which was to ensure her husband's rightful, prominent place in the history books. And now I'm off to listen to the Broadway cast album AGAIN. Because I can't stop. ...more 4.5/5 stars How does a bastard orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean by providence, impoverished, in squalor, grow up to be a hero and a scholar? The ten dollar founding father without a father got a lot further by working a lot harder, by being a lot smarter, by being a self starter, by fourteen, they placed him in charge of a trading charter. And ev'ry day while slaves were being slaughtered and carted away across the waves, he struggle 4.5/5 stars How does a bastard orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean by providence, impoverished, in squalor, grow up to be a hero and a scholar? The ten dollar founding father without a father got a lot further by working a lot harder, by being a lot smarter, by being a self starter, by fourteen, they placed him in charge of a trading charter. And ev'ry day while slaves were being slaughtered and carted away across the waves, he struggled and kept his guard up. Inside, he was longing for something to be a part of, the brother was ready to beg, steal, borrow or barter. Then a hurricane came, and devastation reigned, our man saw his future drip, dripping down the drain, put a pencil to his temple, connected it to his brain, and he wrote his first refrain , a testament to his pain . Well, the word got around, they said, \" This kid is insane, man.\" Took up a collection just to send him to the mainland. \"Get your education, don't forget from whence you came, and the world is gonna know your name. What's your name, man?\" Alexander Hamilton... My name is Alexander Hamilton. (From Hamilton , the musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda) Eleven Tony wins to Lin for a brilliant broadway score, inspired by this bio from author Ron Cherno'. From bastardy and poverty, a man of many flaws, still a visionary, genius and maker of laws. Driven by ambition, a financial wiz of a fledgling nation, controversial, tragic, sadly ironic, American icon, Alexander Hamilton. But...seriously, Hamilton's monument at Trinity Churchyard in New York City: The Patriot of incorruptible Integrity The Soldier of approved Valour The Statesman of consummate Wisdom Whose Talents and Virtues will be admired\u2026 Long after this Marble shall have mouldered into Dust. Pulitzer Prize winning author Ron Chernow's sprawling, weighty biography was first published in 2004 and seems to be enjoying a much deserved popularity resurgence, basking in the limelight of Lin-Manuel Miranda's smashing, 11 Tony Award-winning broadway musical inspired by its subject. Chernow's biographical treatment might be considered the most extensively researched to date of the life of Alexander Hamilton, nevertheless, it may be found slightly biased as the reader will note, even if his patience wanes and skimming parts becomes the only alternative to fleshing out the pertinent bits in this lifetime. Hamilton's story, in contemporary terms as Miranda has implied in his musical, is the immigrant story where dreams come true. Illegitimate, orphaned and impoverished, he never looked at his personal misfortunes as roadblocks to his future. Instead, his hard work, intelligence and drive to improve his circumstances got him noticed by benefactors who sent him to the U.S. Though a rebel at heart, he had \" a profound dread that popular sentiment would boil over into dangerous excess [and] ...even amid an insurrection that he supported, he fretted about the damage to constituted authority and worried about mob rule. \" Hamilton served in the American Revolution, and became aide de camp to George Washington who unreservedly had faith in him despite many who by nature distrusted foreigners, doubted his honesty and loyalty, and thought him a spy for the British. Truly a visionary, \" where other minds groped in the fog of war\u2026 Hamilton seemed to perceive everything in a sudden flash. \" He exerted his brilliance in drafting plans for a new American government while war was still raging on, and as Washington was selected as the first president, Hamilton became his Secretary of the Treasury founding \" a central bank, a funded debt, a mint, \" saw America as a great manufacturing nation and laid the foundation \" for both liberal democracy and capitalism. \" Amid his genius capabilities however, Hamilton showed bewildering foolhardiness: among the most notorious was a scandalous affair to which he confessed in a 90+page letter, published it en masse and distributed it to the public. Hard to imagine that this blatant act of marital suicide didn't actually end that way. Hamilton had his share of ideological opponents who in turn had no great love for him, among them Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, James Madison, with whom he exerted his quick tempered, hot headedness, verbal tongue lashing, character assassinations and nasty mudslinging (quite a familiar political climate at present, no?) His most incomprehensible act (in a manner of speaking, an unintentional suicide?), was agreeing to a duel with his political arch-enemy Aaron Burr, even after the death of his son by the same means. In these times, this example of hatred is very potent and thought provoking, that even the most intelligent in a crowd would stoop to resolve their differences in the most destructive, senseless, fatalistic manner, by point blank pulling the trigger. For a talented visionary as Hamilton who helped lay the groundwork for a country in which freedom, justice, harmony and equality among its citizens are paved, the manner of his death seemed very shortsighted. Furthermore, by that same sort of shortsightedness, base animosity and violence would the country that this founding father helped 'birth' come to the same demise? What would our Founding Father think of US now? Integrity, Valour, Wisdom, Virtue....Dust? ...more Alexander Hamilton will make you feel bad about yourself. When he was about 19 years old, he had not only graduated from Columbia University, he was also George Washington's aide-de-camp. When he was about 30, he was already one of the most successful lawyers in New York, he was responsible for writing the U.S. Constitution, and was in the process of building the U.S. Treasury Department from nothing. He was a genuinely brilliant and astonishing man. But, he was also a very difficult man, and tha Alexander Hamilton will make you feel bad about yourself. When he was about 19 years old, he had not only graduated from Columbia University, he was also George Washington's aide-de-camp. When he was about 30, he was already one of the most successful lawyers in New York, he was responsible for writing the U.S. Constitution, and was in the process of building the U.S. Treasury Department from nothing. He was a genuinely brilliant and astonishing man. But, he was also a very difficult man, and that was his undoing. He could be arrogant and condescending. He could pound you into the ground if you were wrong about anything. This kind of attitude wins you enemies, and when Hamilton's enemies - chief among them, Thomas Jefferson - came to power in 1800, he and his vast talents were frozen out of government. He was a raging bull the last years of his brief life because his talents were in their prime, but he had no meaningful outlet for them. And then he was shot dead. You can't help but wonder what might have been if he had lived. ...more Rise Up! Time to Take a Shot! Reviewing a historical biography can be a difficult task, a genre for which the writing can veer to the monotonous. Here, Ron Chernow does a kingly job with his impeccable research and suaveloquent writing. More significantly of late, this bio served as the basis for the fantastic new blockbuster Broadway musical Hamilton . I'll step back and let Lin-Manuel Miranda's daedal lyrics give you the players and a sketch of part of the story. And well, you know how it ends. Rise Up! Time to Take a Shot! Reviewing a historical biography can be a difficult task, a genre for which the writing can veer to the monotonous. Here, Ron Chernow does a kingly job with his impeccable research and suaveloquent writing. More significantly of late, this bio served as the basis for the fantastic new blockbuster Broadway musical Hamilton . I'll step back and let Lin-Manuel Miranda's daedal lyrics give you the players and a sketch of part of the story. And well, you know how it ends. It's history, after all. You want answers to the question? \"How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean by providence, impoverished, in squalor, grow up to be a hero and a scholar?\" Answers: For one, go into everything exclaiming, \"Hey yo, I'm just like my country, I'm young, scrappy and hungry, and I'm not throwing away my shot!\" \"When are these colonies gonna rise up?\" \"We're gonna rise up! Time to take a shot!\" Acquaints himself with two beautiful New York women of Dutch origin. The Schuyler Sisters. Angelica: \"I've been reading Common Sense by Thomas Paine. So men say that I'm intense or I'm insane. You want a revolution? I want a revelation. So listen to my declaration: \"We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal.\" The sister he marries, Eliza: \"Grab[s] my sister, and whisper[s], \"Yo, this one's mine. My sister made her way across the room to you and I got nervous thinking 'What's she gonna do?' She grabbed you by the arm, I'm thinkin' 'I'm through.' Then you look back at me and suddenly I'm Helpless!\" Fighting a King who proclaims, \"You'll be back, like before. I will fight the fight and win the war for your love, for your praise, and I'll love you till my dying days. When you're gone I'll go mad, so don't throw away this thing we had. Cuz when push comes to shove, I will kill your friends and family to remind you of my love.\" Get close to a General who, with 32,000 troops in New York harbor surrounded by British ships, barks, \"We are outgunned, outmanned, outnumbered, outplanned. We gotta make an all out stand. Ayo, I'm gonna need a right hand man. ... Can I be real a second?... Let down my guard and tell the people how I feel a second? Now I'm the model of a modern major general, the venerated Virginian veteran whose men are all lining up, to put me up on a pedestal, writin' letters to relatives embellishin' my elegance and eloquence, but the elephant is in the room, the truth is in ya face when ya hear the British cannons go... BOOM!\" Though, beware the seeds of resentment planted in Aaron Burr, your arch-enemy: \"Death doesn't discriminate between the sinners and the saints, it takes and it takes and it takes and we keep living anyway. We rise and we fall and we break and we make our mistakes. And if there's a reason I'm still alive when everyone who loves me has died. I'm willing to wait for it.... I am the one thing in life I can control. I am inimitable. I am an original. I'm not falling behind or running late. I'm not standing still, I am lying in wait. Hamilton faces an endless uphill climb. He has something to prove. He has nothing to lose. Hamilton's pace is relentless he wastes no time. What's it like in his shoes? Hamilton doesn't hesitate. He exhibits no restraint. He takes and he takes and he takes and he keeps winning anyway. He changes the game. He plays and he raises the stakes. And if there's a reason he seems to thrive when so few survive, then Goddamnit- I'm willing to wait for it.\" And, in the Battle of Yorktown, 1781, make a move: \"HAMILTON: I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory. This is where it gets me: on my feet, the enemy ahead of me. If this is the end of me, at least I have a friend with me, weapon in my hand, a command, and my men with me. Then I remember my Eliza\u2019s expecting me... Not only that, my Eliza\u2019s expecting. We gotta go, gotta get the job done. Gotta start a new nation, gotta meet my son! Take the bullets out your gun! We move under cover and we move as one through the night. We have one shot to live another day. We cannot let a stray gunshot give us away. We will fight up close, seize the moment and stay in it. It\u2019s either that or meet the business end of a bayonet. The code word is \u2018Rochambeau,\u2019 dig me? You have your orders now, go, man, go! And so the American experiment begins with my friends all scattered to the winds...\" Quotations to lyrics from Hamilton, An American Musical , written by Lin-Manuel Miranda, from songs, in order of quotes, \"Alexander Hamilton,\" \"My Shot,\" \"The Schuyler Sisters,\" \"Helpless,\" \"You'll Be Back,\" \"Right Hand Man,\" \"Wait for It,\" and \"Yorktown (The World Turned Upside Down).\" And, that's only half the story. Highly recommended for a historical biography. ...more I don't know that I have ever read a single book that so changed my perception of history. The Author is able to truly show the brilliance and importance of Hamilton's contribution to our government. I have always had the mistaken perception that Hamilton was a hinderance to free Government and that it was Jefferson and Monroe that were the true authors. I learned that I could not have been more mistaken. Hamilton was a man of sheer genius. Raising from obscurity to being the founder of the basic I don't know that I have ever read a single book that so changed my perception of history. The Author is able to truly show the brilliance and importance of Hamilton's contribution to our government. I have always had the mistaken perception that Hamilton was a hinderance to free Government and that it was Jefferson and Monroe that were the true authors. I learned that I could not have been more mistaken. Hamilton was a man of sheer genius. Raising from obscurity to being the founder of the basic structure of our government and our monetary system. His greatness was only exceeded by his fiery temperament that most certainly lead to his untimely death in a duel with his former University classmate Arron Burr. Students of American history need to read this book to understand the truly great contributions made to our government. Upon reading this book you are struck with the distinct impression that our current law that prohibits any native born American from running for President was most certainly written by the detractor of Hamilton that wanted to make certain he could never become President. The reader will also learn of his great loyalty to Washington and that Washington was most likely the only person that could temper the fiery temper of Hamilton and pull out of him his greatness. ...more Hamilton's ability to rise above a bastard's upbringing and his unsure beginnings to one of the highest offices of the US is one of those \"American dream\" stories that our forefathers built the cliche upon. Chernow handles the material, lived-out so many years ago, with a deft hand, keeping my interest even through the parts I would normally find boring, such as the country's financial structuring which Hamilton masterminded. Of course, it is Hamilton's battle of wits with Thomas Jefferson (and Hamilton's ability to rise above a bastard's upbringing and his unsure beginnings to one of the highest offices of the US is one of those \"American dream\" stories that our forefathers built the cliche upon. Chernow handles the material, lived-out so many years ago, with a deft hand, keeping my interest even through the parts I would normally find boring, such as the country's financial structuring which Hamilton masterminded. Of course, it is Hamilton's battle of wits with Thomas Jefferson (and his nippy lap-dog Madison) that is the real draw of any true history lover's fascination with Hamilton's life, even if his almost-out-of-date-yet-still-impossibly-gallant duel with Aaron Burr that excites the masses. Although Hamilton's politics don't exactly jive with mine, I've still got to respect the way the man carried himself. He stuck to what he believed in, his code of honor, even if it meant his own end...and what an end! ...more In an ongoing project to better educate myself about important political figures in history, I sought to return to another member of the American Founding Fathers. However, to call Alexander Hamilton a 'father' when surrounded by Washington, Franklin, and Jefferson seems slightly odd, as he was much younger than the others around the table. While that may be true, Ron Chernow effectively argues that Hamilton was a substantial, even quintessential, player in the founding and early establishment o In an ongoing project to better educate myself about important political figures in history, I sought to return to another member of the American Founding Fathers. However, to call Alexander Hamilton a 'father' when surrounded by Washington, Franklin, and Jefferson seems slightly odd, as he was much younger than the others around the table. While that may be true, Ron Chernow effectively argues that Hamilton was a substantial, even quintessential, player in the founding and early establishment of America. Depicting the man as one who was mature beyond his years, a brilliant constitutionalist, and a stalwart statesman, Chernow illustrates how Hamilton utilised his presence around these other political giants to lay the cornerstone for the American political and economic systems in place today. A masterful piece of work that any reader with a passion for political biography ought not to miss, Chernow educates and entertains in equal measure. Hamilton's maturity can be traced as far back as his formative years in the West Indies. Born illegitimately, Hamilton's life was further shaped when his mother died at a young age and he was shuffled off to many relatives, all of whom met the same fate in a short span. Hamilton's social and emotional maturity led his quest for knowledge and the ability to set himself apart from those around him. Chernow illustrates that Hamilton was given much responsibility while working as a young man, holding things together for his proprietor who was off in New York tending to business interests. The curiosity towards learning spurned Hamilton to arrive on the shores of the Empire State at a time when unrest was brewing, but before it reached its zenith in British-colonial clashes. While studying at what would soon be called Columbia College, Hamilton devoured all that was put before him and became a lawyer, before he found a spot within the continental army. Hamilton climbed the ranks, becoming a colonel and was handpicked by George Washington to serve as one of his aides de camp. That Hamilton was not on the front lines of the battles irked him, but this connection to Washington would curry favour between the two men and eventually lead to greater things. As shall be seen below, Hamilton's maturity seeped into his work at the Continental Congress and during the drafting of the US Constitution, as well as work in the early years at Treasury. It is not lost on the reader that Hamilton was able to effectively serve alongside other political juggernauts, as Chernow weaves many intricate stories surrounding Hamilton's abilities and effective progress in forming the America with which many are familiar today. Hamilton was not only a key figure in the creation of the US Constitution, but a brilliant author whose absence would surely have made for a much weaker document. As Chernow argues, using historical documents and well-known publications to substantiate, Hamilton understood the nuances of constitutional creation, as well as the need to cherrypick from that which had worked before. Labelled at times as a monarchist, whose interest in keeping some aspects of Britain's system in the American sphere, Hamilton did not deny that utilising that which works effectively is better than trying to reinvent the wheel. Not only did Hamilton help forge a document that would encompass key elements necessary for running the new republic, but he wrote a large collection of papers, alongside John Jay and James Madison, to sell the state delegates whose job it was to ratify the constitution within their respective legislatures. These writings became known as The Federalist Papers and are still quoted to best understand the core elements of the Founding Fathers' mindset and general constitutional framework at the documents inception. Chernow refers to these essays throughout this section of the biography and highlights the ease with which Hamilton utilised his power of the written work to persuade and support the clauses enshrined in the constitutional document. The reader is left to wonder how a man so young could have such a strong worldly sense about him, especially since he did not travel to Europe or return to his birthplace. Chernow presents Hamilton as an effective and detailed scholar in these most important months of the new republic, crafting a document alongside Jefferson, Franklin and a handful of others, whose content has been amended 27 times as of the writing of this review. Hamilton's constitutional capabilities cannot be lost on the reader, as Chernow details the battle to create an effective set of rules by which America would run. In the latter section of the biography, Chernow exemplifies Hamilton's legal mind and constitutional prowess to argue cases before the courts, effectively presenting sound arguments to support or nullify state and federal laws on numerous occasions. A constitutional Goliath, a moniker Chernow resurrects from historical documents, properly depicts Hamilton and his vast knowledge of this key aspect of early America's founding. Hamilton moved from being a Founding Father to an effective statesman in the first Cabinet under Washington, formulating essential laws and laying the groundwork for many plans taken for granted in the 21st century. In choosing Hamilton to serve in his first Cabinet of three(!) members, Washington invested a great deal of pressure on, and power in, him. Hamilton coveted the chance to serve as Secretary to the Treasury and was given the chance to impress with his significant understanding of financial issues. The position allowed Hamilton to formulate some of the early financial, economic, and monetary policy for America, which could serve it well in its infancy. With a mind well-tuned to the nuances of financial matters (was there anything this man could not do?), Hamilton saw the importance not only of running an effective government that could be self-sufficient, but also the necessity to deal with its war debts and move forward. The greatest issue that Hamilton faced was creating policy and legislation for Congress that set in place certain taxes, levies, and money garnering endeavours that did not sour the populace. As Chernow reminds the reader, the Revolutionary War was fuelled by a push not to allow many of the same taxes that Hamilton now proposed. However, with the need to sustain the coffers of America, now that the British were gone, these plans had to return, alongside a means of communicating the essential nature of their presence to a populace still stinging. Hamilton also created what is now the Coast Guard to inspect ships looking to bring goods into America, as well as a Mint to strike coins and print paper money for use within the states, as well as unifying the monies used and permitting inter-state travel. These were major struggles, but Hamilton effectively navigated the waters and brought about key fiscal elements to unite rather than divide the country. Even after leaving Washington's Cabinet, Hamilton used his statesman abilities and knowledge of the constitution to pen essays on various topics, swinging sentiment in one way or the other. Hamilton always sought to use well-grounded arguments to support his views, which would sway public and congressional opinions as major pieces of legislation came up for debate or vote. Chernow exemplifies this statesman persona quite seamlessly and does offer a thorough examination of the decisions Hamilton undertook while a member of America's political elite. Chernow's book also examines some other highly interesting aspects in the American political development. Hamilton was at the heart of the first political schism that saw the creation of the Republican Party, as well as the Federalist and anti-Federalist labels affixed to certain segments of the political population. The birth of this non-constitutionally recognised political animal proves highly intriguing to the curious reader and Chernow does a wonderful job in narrating its methodical emergence. As well, no political biography is complete without a little scandal and Chernow attributes the first American political sex scandal to Hamilton, who was fond of women in all their glory. Again, Chernow delves into this story, but, as might be a sign of the times, things remain above board and the gaudy details remain hidden, which may depress any reader seeking salacious crumbs within these pages. Any attentive reader who reaches the point of the biography when Hamilton leaves Treasury is sure to ask, 'why no presidential run in '96?', to which Chernow has numerous speculative responses, all grounded in fact and and personal comments shared by Hamilton. This book is full of many anecdotes and keeps history's ever-changing narrative as a key driving force to propel the story forward. Chernow does a wonderful job examining the life and times of Alexander Hamilton, from the mysteries of his birth in the West Indies through to his death at the hands of Aaron Burr in a duel, itself a dramatic and detailed story in the waning chapters of the biography. The narrative is full of wonderful tidbits of information and stories to better exemplify some of the larger events in early American political history, as well as some key sub-plots showing that Hamilton had his detractors, including: Thomas Jefferson, George Clinton, James Madison, and Aaron Burr. The book is very well laid out and its detail shows considerable effort on Chernow's part to offer as full a picture as possible for the reader to better understand how Hamilton shaped the world around him and was influenced by its happenings. Kudos Mr. Chernow for this wonderful political biography that touches on many aspects of Hamilton's life and that of the early America. Full of poignant vignettes that include other political heavyweights, Chernow shows the breadth of Hamilton's influence during his life, cut short by a draconian means of settling disputes. Like/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at: http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/ ...more There's no point in me pretending that I read this lengthy biography for any other reason than my current obsession with the musical Hamilton . As a Hamilton fan, I was pleased to see that Miranda had stuck fairly closely to historical fact, with a compressed chronology. And somewhat more sympathy afforded to Jefferson and Burr than Chernow has, interestingly enough. So if you're reading solely from a place of love for the musical, you won't be disappointed. But as a work of history? I'm really qu There's no point in me pretending that I read this lengthy biography for any other reason than my current obsession with the musical Hamilton . As a Hamilton fan, I was pleased to see that Miranda had stuck fairly closely to historical fact, with a compressed chronology. And somewhat more sympathy afforded to Jefferson and Burr than Chernow has, interestingly enough. So if you're reading solely from a place of love for the musical, you won't be disappointed. But as a work of history? I'm really quite pleased by the level of scholarship. Chernow's background may be as a journalist, but he knows how to walk the historian walk. This is one of the most meticulously researched works of history I've read in a long time, and Chernow uses primary sources extensively. I see the exact opposite too much when I read history, and it drives me up a wall. So it's nice to see a book that can have upwards of 100 end notes per chapter. Even the acknowledgements are ridiculously thorough. And yet it's also a vastly entertaining read. This is, admittedly, because Hamilton's life is fascinating just from the bare facts. Chernow would have to be pretty bad writer to make him dull, and he isn't nearly that. Yes, he does sometimes throw in a ten dollar word when a fifty cent one would do, but that's what the Kindle dictionary is for. Granted, the twists and turns of Hamilton's life make for incredibly juicy material, but I honestly think that Chernow made the most of it. There are certainly shorter accounts of Hamilton's fascinating life, but there's just so much to cover that all 700+ pages were full. There's his childhood in the Caribbean, and the unlikely way he ended up in New York at the exact right time to not just participate in the Revolution, but have a central roll in the founding of a new nation. And then he essentially sabotages his promising political career largely through an inherent inability to just shut up: about his opponents, about the other members of his own political party, and about his own affair. Hamilton with a little more impulse control would have been a rather less interesting person, but he certainly would have lived longer, because his fateful encounters with Burr would have turned out differently. It made me happy that Chernow began and ended his book with Hamilton's wife, Eliza. She's an interesting enough person in her own right, and not just for her intense, lifelong love for her husband, which is romantic enough. Eliza had a full life after Hamilton's death, including her own efforts on his behalf. She was bright, giving, devoted to her husband's memory, and charming, if not universally. My favorite Eliza story is, of course, her telling off then-President Monroe because of her (fairly reasonable, if you ask me) grudge against him. It would be easy to overlook her, in no small part because she seemed to want history to overlook her, and I'm grateful that Chernow didn't. The short version of all of the above is that Hamilton is inherently fascinating and Chernow's biography is both well-written and well-researched, making this quite possibly the best biography that I've ever read. Also, I think I deserve some kind of bonus points for not quoting the musical at any point during my review. It was hard. ...more As I have grown older, -I must confess.- my opinion of Thomas Jefferson has changed radically. I still grant him enormous credit as an architect, inventor, and prose stylist; however, I have become more and more estranged from his politics and methods. And I must confess again that this most excellent biography of Alexander Hamilton has only served to harden my revised opinion of Jefferson and the political Jeffersonians. I approached this book knowing only the current mythological cant concernin As I have grown older, -I must confess.- my opinion of Thomas Jefferson has changed radically. I still grant him enormous credit as an architect, inventor, and prose stylist; however, I have become more and more estranged from his politics and methods. And I must confess again that this most excellent biography of Alexander Hamilton has only served to harden my revised opinion of Jefferson and the political Jeffersonians. I approached this book knowing only the current mythological cant concerning Hamilton, and I came away amazed at both his accomplishments and ethical approach to public service. Although one of the reviewers on Amazon accused Chernow of being somewhat of a hagiographer, given the barest of factual accounts of what Hamilton succeeded in -against all odds-, it would be difficult to write of him otherwise. His failings [chiefly occasional intemperance of language, and a sometimes misplaced sense of honor] were certainly the norm for 18th Century gentlemen. And his greatest accomplishment was, perhaps, his avoidance of hypocrisy [unlike Jefferson]. I will not go on at length on particulars, but read this book by all means. For me, it also dovetails nicely with my continued positive revising of my opinion on Washington, a truly remarkable man, who was MUCH, MUCH more than the marble statue of popular history. ...more \"Alexander Hamilton. My name is Alexander Hamilton. And there's a million things I haven't done, but just you wait, just you waaaaaaaaait.\" First things first: if you haven't listened to Hamilton, do yourself a favour and go listen to Hamilton. Because it's a freaking masterpiece. Anyway. On with the book review. I obviously read this because I'm Hamiltrash, as is the case with so many other reviewers. And what struck me about this were two things in particular: 1. It's an excellent biography of \"Alexander Hamilton. My name is Alexander Hamilton. And there's a million things I haven't done, but just you wait, just you waaaaaaaaait.\" First things first: if you haven't listened to Hamilton, do yourself a favour and go listen to Hamilton. Because it's a freaking masterpiece. Anyway. On with the book review. I obviously read this because I'm Hamiltrash, as is the case with so many other reviewers. And what struck me about this were two things in particular: 1. It's an excellent biography of a truly fascinating and often overlooked individual, and 2. It's totally fascinating to see which bits Lin Manuel Miranda played with to make the story more interesting and more accessible. The first point could basically be my entire review - Hamilton led an incredibly interesting life, and was a remarkably eloquent sass explosion a lot of the time. I highlighted a ton of quotes that I liked, and this is the first non-fiction book that's made me cry, solely thanks to Hamilton's farewell letter to Eliza. That said, there were sections of the story that dragged more than others - namely, everything between the war ending and the point where \"Mrs Maria Reynolds walked into my life\". Because seriously. It's chapter after chapter of Hamilton establishing America's financial systems, and zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz. So. I mean, if you're into economics and banking, it might be fascinating to you. But I'm not. And it wasn't. As to the second point, I was a little bit heartbroken to learn that the whole of Satisfied is utter bollocks because Angelica Schuyler was already married way before she met A.Ham. Also married before A. Ham? Lafayette, Laurens, and Mulligan. Also, Mulligan was like WAY older than the rest of that little band and owned the shop where he did all his spying on the British Forces and most definitely didn't go back to New York and his apprenticeship. So I felt a little betrayed by learning that because WHAAAAAT?!?!?!?! But once I got over the initial shock of the musical not being 100% historically accurate (SHOCKER), I actually grew to love those little moments of \"Hey, LMM did a thing!\". So on the whole, it was fascinating from two different perspectives. Also, no power in the verse can convince me that A. Ham wasn't banging at least one of his friends, and most likely his sister-in-law. So. There's that. ...more This is an exhaustive work that took me quite a while to complete. I knew very little about Alexander Hamilton when I visited Nevis a few years ago and saw signs to his birthplace. Nevis is quite proud of this fact, as they should be. His birthplace is basically in ruins, a stone shack overrun with chickens and goats. Nothing more. Just a sign. The circumstances of his birth, his early life, his mother's imprisonment for alleged adultery, his father's descent into alcoholism and his ultimate ab This is an exhaustive work that took me quite a while to complete. I knew very little about Alexander Hamilton when I visited Nevis a few years ago and saw signs to his birthplace. Nevis is quite proud of this fact, as they should be. His birthplace is basically in ruins, a stone shack overrun with chickens and goats. Nothing more. Just a sign. The circumstances of his birth, his early life, his mother's imprisonment for alleged adultery, his father's descent into alcoholism and his ultimate abandonment of Hamilton (if his father was his real father) are just overwhelmingly sad. Yet this young man was never defeated...not until the duel. Like most Americans schooled in history via textbooks, I knew Hamilton was killed by Aaron Burr in a duel and that he was a Federalist hated by John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. I had no idea the scope of his brilliance and influence in shaping our American economy. His capacity to absorb and process complex facts and systems indicate genius. His authorship of The Federalist papers (with Madison) his founding of the Treasury, the banking system, his belief in a strong central government with a strong executive branch put him in direct opposition to Thomas Jefferson and the Republicans. He womanized, and self-aggrandized. He was a bit of a dandy who was surprisingly obsessed over minute details of dress and design. He insisted on total control. He was a flawed human being. Another Goodreads reviewer accurately commented that Hamilton's early death did not allow him the opportunity to influence how he would be viewed by posterity, unlike Adams and Jefferson. Perhaps that is why we know so little, and Hamilton's contributions are often minimized in American History textbooks. This is a superbly written and well-researched work on a truly original American hero. Highly recommended. ...more Best Bestsellers bonus episode: http://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers... Is this getting a bonus star because of inspiring Hamilton the musical? YES PROBABLY my reviews are all subject to personal WHIMSY. Anyway, I never would have picked this up if it weren't for Hamilton the musical. But Hamilton the musical wouldn't exist if it weren't for this book! Chernow does a great job of fleshing out Hamilton as a smart, scrappy, irritating human being (with an A++++ wife, also a human being) as opposed t Best Bestsellers bonus episode: http://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers... Is this getting a bonus star because of inspiring Hamilton the musical? YES PROBABLY my reviews are all subject to personal WHIMSY. Anyway, I never would have picked this up if it weren't for Hamilton the musical. But Hamilton the musical wouldn't exist if it weren't for this book! Chernow does a great job of fleshing out Hamilton as a smart, scrappy, irritating human being (with an A++++ wife, also a human being) as opposed to just, you know, the $10 bill guy. Also he does a lot of careful work explaining code duello and why, at the time, it did not seem totally bonkers to just be duelin' all the time. But also, does not just casually let the founding fathers off the hook for slavery, which is something SOME biographers do. I'd definitely recommend this to any fans of Hamilton the musical* to just kind of flesh out the musical and make you further appreciate all the work LMM did. It's an enjoyable, informative read and it's really only like, 700 pages because the last 100 is endnotes. *if you are not a fan of Hamilton the musical, literally what are you doing ...more Definitely not something I would have ever picked up, but after becoming obsessed with Hamilton, I was curious. It was a bit dry, but very well written. I did skim parts of it, basically just wanting details for the sections of Hamilton's life that are highlighted in the play. The last chapters dealing with the duel and the aftermath were heartbreaking. This by far the most stimulating, thought provoking, absolutely enriching, fascinating biography I have ever read (actually, listened to on Audio). It consumed me for months and I talked about it to anyone who was motionless enough to listen. It helped me keep both my sanity and perspective (think long term historical here) during a horrendous election year. So good to know it wasn't our first and that fabricating stories occurred on both sides. Chernow is a marvel! I highly recommend reading th This by far the most stimulating, thought provoking, absolutely enriching, fascinating biography I have ever read (actually, listened to on Audio). It consumed me for months and I talked about it to anyone who was motionless enough to listen. It helped me keep both my sanity and perspective (think long term historical here) during a horrendous election year. So good to know it wasn't our first and that fabricating stories occurred on both sides. Chernow is a marvel! I highly recommend reading this book to everyone - what a vastly entertaining education. The book deserves a much longer and reflective review, but I'm still too exhausted to review my hundreds of clips, highlights, and annotations! It definitely changed my appreciation of the tireless work and compromise our nations founders committed to in creating our country. I have a different a greater appreciation of George Washington as a leader, a much modified appreciation of Jefferson, and a recognition of how even the best of men can be vilified by other \"great\" men when they perceive the need. Hamilton? Who knew he was so incredibly brilliant and, in the greater scheme of things, morally and ethically upright. ...more This is the first biography that I've read all the way through--foreword, introduction, afterword, footnotes, and all--which is a big deal for me because I'm not a big nonfiction reader. So giving it the full 5-star rating is an even bigger deal. It feels like a book worthy of the highest rating because so much work went into crafting it and making it the page-turner that it is, but much to my surprise it's not heavy at all. It's actually a quick read; the language zips along and doesn't pull an This is the first biography that I've read all the way through--foreword, introduction, afterword, footnotes, and all--which is a big deal for me because I'm not a big nonfiction reader. So giving it the full 5-star rating is an even bigger deal. It feels like a book worthy of the highest rating because so much work went into crafting it and making it the page-turner that it is, but much to my surprise it's not heavy at all. It's actually a quick read; the language zips along and doesn't pull any punches. Took me a month to get through the whole thing because I like taking my time, but most people could finish it in a week, easily. * * * * * Picking up this book because of the musical. ...more Wonderful\u2014an education in itself. Voluble, big-hearted. EDIT: I should reread this. And I need to actually see Hamilton, not just put the soundtrack on repeat. Excellent biography on all counts. Covers the many contradictory facets of this figure and dazzles you with the force of his achievements, yet also makes you sympathize with him, from his rise from obscurity to his sudden fall. If you want to know how does the titular bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman etc etc grow up to be a hero and a scholar, you have to read this book. I didn't give it five stars because it is hard to digest at times (the real rating would be 4.5). My poor brain could not cope with tens of pages about financial system. But, hell, what a SPECTACULAR book. The meticulous and well-researched style reminded me of Barbara Tuchman . From the first pages on Hamilton's parents until the harrowin If you want to know how does the titular bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman etc etc grow up to be a hero and a scholar, you have to read this book. I didn't give it five stars because it is hard to digest at times (the real rating would be 4.5). My poor brain could not cope with tens of pages about financial system. But, hell, what a SPECTACULAR book. The meticulous and well-researched style reminded me of Barbara Tuchman . From the first pages on Hamilton's parents until the harrowing last pages on his untimely demise and his amazing wife's life afterwards, I was completely captivated. Well, except the few times when the author painstakingly described about fiscal arrangement thingy and banky stuff. However, this is probably the first book that gave me abundant insights on how a nation-state was built. Fighting is easy, governing is harder. Like, A LOT harder. Economy, debts, foreign relations, (quasi)war, slavery, threats of secession, rogue politicians, endless public bickerings....I think Americans really owed Hamilton for his forward-looking policies and strong drive to get those in place. Another thing I like about this book is that the author also included definitely-not-brief accounts on the other founding fathers. It surely contributes to the length of this door-stopper book but as a reader I feel lucky because I got to read about Washington, Jefferson & Co as well. Achievement unlocked. Other things I learn from this book: 1. Burr joked lots of times about his duel with Hamilton. What a jerk! 2. He once wrote about his lover's flat chest to his daughter. I kid you not. 3. Jefferson was so folksy he once answered the door of the White House by himself and mistaken as a servant. 4. Hamilton had too many hobbies and interests but too little time. Sounds like yours truly. 5. Adams often shouted profanities in front of his cabinet. That should be a hilarious scene in Hamilton (the musical). 6. Hamilton could not handle his own finances despite successfully founded the country's financial system. 7. If Hamilton still lives today, he'll be one of those instagrammers who take hundreds of pics a day since he's very picky on which to post. 8. Vice Presidency is \"the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or his imagination conceived\". 9. Jefferson seriously thought African-American were genetically inferior. Didn't stop him from making one of his slaves as a mistress. 10. Maria Reynolds must have been really hot. 11. Using aliases for insulting people is in fashion since at least the 18th century in the US. The difference is that they used fancy Roman names like Publius and pamphlets/newspapers as their avenues. Imagine if Hamilton had Twitter. He'll probably gonna buy Twitter itself so it would accomodate more than 140 characters. And he would reply to EVERY trolls. 11. NEVER THROW AWAY YOUR SHOT. 12. If A Song of Ice and Fire is written by Hamilton, he would have finished all seven books in six months. 13. Peggy rocked. Once she saved her family from a bunch of Tory and Indian intruders coming to her house by being so coolheaded. 14. Despite being a star lawyer, writer, general, secretary of treasury, party leader and so on, Hamilton was still loaded with a mass of insecurities. Nobody's perfect. 15. Duels suck. Took me a month to finish this, but some books are meant to be read slowly (and completed). PS: Don't call yourself a Hamiltrash if you haven't read this. PPS: I wish there is an extensive book like this on Indonesia's founding fathers. ...more Continuing on with my American Revolution/colonial America reading, I eagerly delved into Alexander Hamilton . I had already read Chernow\u2019s Washington: a Life and deemed it the best biography I\u2019ve ever read. Alexander Hamilton started out meeting all my expectations. Chernow\u2019s excellent research and depth in reporting the events surrounding Hamilton\u2019s life established a terrific launching point and I was completely engrossed. Here\u2019s what I loved about the book: Additional details about the revoluti Continuing on with my American Revolution/colonial America reading, I eagerly delved into Alexander Hamilton . I had already read Chernow\u2019s Washington: a Life and deemed it the best biography I\u2019ve ever read. Alexander Hamilton started out meeting all my expectations. Chernow\u2019s excellent research and depth in reporting the events surrounding Hamilton\u2019s life established a terrific launching point and I was completely engrossed. Here\u2019s what I loved about the book: Additional details about the revolutionary war and Hamilton\u2019s relationship with George Washington were fascinating for me. Once the war was over, the nation building began. All the books I\u2019d read up until this point were short on this subject, and Chernow relates Hamilton\u2019s genius in establishing a central banking system, the stock market, the treasury department, and foreign trade with an understanding of economics that is simply pure genius. He also goes into great detail explaining Hamilton\u2019s opposition, namely Thomas Jefferson and Republicans, and why they disagree with Hamilton\u2019s policies to the point of venemous attacks on his character. Understanding this period of American government/politics certainly helps one put in perspective the vitriol that occurs in politics today. After all, if the hostilities were so great then, (and both Hamilton and Jefferson were willing to toss constitutional protections out the window to achieve their own ends), the \u201chappy ending\u201d of the survival of our system of government, should make us breathe a little easier, in the knowledge that we can still come out this turbulence relatively unscathed. What didn\u2019t I like about the book? Two things. First, a friend told me that she felt Chernow exhibited bias in his Washington book. At the time, it didn\u2019t bother me because it\u2019s my opinion that all historians show some bias, whether they intend to or not. On further reflection, I recalled how the author seemed to deliberately show negative characteristics of Thomas Jefferson. If those traits were pushed to the forefront in Washington: a Life , they were used to crucify the man in Alexander Hamilton . I don\u2019t think Chernow had one bit of praise for Jefferson \u2013 he saved it all for Hamilton. And yet, Hamilton had many, many enemies. How is it that a man with seemingly few faults could be so hated? I know it\u2019s politics, but these men actually knew each other. There must have been something in Hamilton\u2019s character that rubbed people the wrong way. That\u2019s not to say that Chernow avoided Hamilton\u2019s faults altogether. It\u2019s just that he barely touched on them, while putting him on a high pedestal at the same time. The second issue I had with the book was the amount of time spent on the accusations that flew back and forth between Hamilton and the Federalists versus Jefferson and the Republicans. This seemed to take up 25% of the book, and it was a very long book. That said, it was still an excellent work and worth 4 1/2 stars (I just had to knock that half star off for the bias and the extra time spent on the verbals attacks). It would actually be interesting if Chernow were to write a biography of Thomas Jefferson. The different perspective would be interesting, but I don\u2019t know if Chernow would appreciate the hate-mail that would likely ensue. ...more This is definitely not something I usually read, but after developing a slightly unhealthy obsession with the musical I had no choice. The book itself is very well written and surprisingly easy to read ( granted it took me two months to finish it), and Alexander Hamilton, it turns out , is a very interesting man. From his unlikely origins as an orphan in the West Indies all the way to being the first treasury secretary of the United States. Bonus points, because as a non-American I have very few This is definitely not something I usually read, but after developing a slightly unhealthy obsession with the musical I had no choice. The book itself is very well written and surprisingly easy to read ( granted it took me two months to finish it), and Alexander Hamilton, it turns out , is a very interesting man. From his unlikely origins as an orphan in the West Indies all the way to being the first treasury secretary of the United States. Bonus points, because as a non-American I have very few information about American history in general so it was all the more interesting to me. I know it's a huge book but it's really worth it. You might just end up, like me, wondering why the hell are you crying over Alexander Hamilton at 2 in the morning. ...more I need this ... because of reasons. This book is absolutely stunning: in scope, achievement, and detail, without getting too muddy with extraneous stuff. Like many folk, I read this because of my interest in the musical, and it's beautiful to see what parts that LMM took and emphasized in song. It's also interesting to see what got truncated, ignored, or flipped. (Not sure if any of this counts as spoilers, since it's all history?) Hamilton himself was a great and prolific mind; we owe much of the framework of our nation to his idea This book is absolutely stunning: in scope, achievement, and detail, without getting too muddy with extraneous stuff. Like many folk, I read this because of my interest in the musical, and it's beautiful to see what parts that LMM took and emphasized in song. It's also interesting to see what got truncated, ignored, or flipped. (Not sure if any of this counts as spoilers, since it's all history?) Hamilton himself was a great and prolific mind; we owe much of the framework of our nation to his ideas. Like people whose small quirks are tiny facets of their personalities while they're young, but take over large patches of their personalities when they're older, it was almost upsetting to see that Hamilton's confidence, stubbornness, and determination (read: opinionated drive) lead him to a more cantankerous personality before his early death at 49. I liked that Chernow didn't shy from Hamilton's problematic areas; he was against slavery and didn't own any slaves of his own, but helped his brother-in-law's family purchase slaves. Likewise, he was an immigrant, but towards the end of his life he was anti-immigration and supported the Alien and Sedition Act. He feuded with many other politicians and needled a few of them (like Aaron Burr) mercilessly; he was kind of an idiot with women and was manipulated by an extramarital affair. He was not a saint. As we like to say nowadays, he's your problematic fave. But instead of selling you $500 white T-shirts like Goop, he was talking shit about the Federalist administration (his own party!) and getting away with it. I think the more surprising thing about this was the actual villainous character of Aaron Burr. From the musical you get the idea that he's a little scheming and conniving, standing without much principle, but you have some sympathy for him. The two men were heavily involved in each other's lives, working together at lawyers in New York, and entered public service together. The main difference between them, I think, is that Hamilton was in public service to better the nation (the right reason to do it); Burr was in it to gain power for himself. Maybe because this was a biography about Hamilton and Burr killed him, we readers are supposed to feel animosity towards Burr, and I should read a less biased account (a Burr biography, perhaps). But there is no way to spin some of the stuff that Burr did, objectively, to make him seem like less of a sonovabitch. A big example: in 1799, when Hamilton and Burr had sparred words but were on the same page for a little bit. They were both concerned about the wave of yellow fever sweeping New York and talked to the mayor about a private water company. Burr, who was still a senator (not yet the VP), was floundering financially, so much that he was neglecting his legislative duties. He knew that if he broke the Federalists' monopoly on local banking he would gain a foothold with the Republican party (\"his\" party), so he went into the private water company bill, removed parts about the company providing free water to combat fires and lay pipes , and added in that the company's surplus capital could be used as foundation for a financial institution. Because of the diversion of money, river water was too difficult to bring into the city and they brought in impure water from old wells, pumped through old pipes. Yellow fever cases got worse and killed people. And this guy became the VP!! The musical made it sound like Franklin got rid of him (\"Guy openly campaigns against me and now he's talking about our partnership , yeah right\") but Burr actually got the seat. He was on the political outs and didn't get to do much, but after his duel with Hamilton, he didn't even GAF!! He went home like a psychopath, had breakfast with a friend and chatted with him so normally that when someone stopped that friend in the street later that day to say \"Burr shot Hamilton!\" the guy was like, \"No he didn't, I just had a meal with him and he seemed completely at ease.\" The Vice President of the United States shot a Founding Father and because it happened in New Jersey, nothing happened to him, even though almost everyone was really mad about it. It defies belief, honestly. Eliza's part in all of this was absolutely beautiful, too. She actively tried to keep herself out of her husband's narrative (there's evidence that she tried to scrub herself out of his documentation) but she was a firecracker. She stood by him after the affair business blew up; she dealt with a lot of loss (her son, her sister, her mother, her husband, all within a short span; her daughter had a mental breakdown after Philip's death and was institutionalized for the rest of her life) but Got Shit Done. She raised the rest of their children, with most of the boys becoming New York lawyers like their dad. Within 2 years of Hamilton's death she started a private orphanage, the first in NY, and started a separate school promoting literacy in Manhattan. I would read a biography about her, based on her strength alone. She was a force. This book took me months to read, in between other novels. It's dense and has some passages that are somewhat dull, and even the succinct writing style of Chernow didn't ease it much. However, it's rich and dramatic, and I think a lot of diehard Hamilton fans will really get a lot out of it. Next up: Hamiltome. ...more Alexander Hamilton will make you feel like such a loser. He was born on a tiny island in the West Indies to a poor Scotsman and a woman who was married to someone else. His father took off when he was 10 years old. Alexander then survived a major illness two years later but his mother did not, leaving him orphaned. He was taken in by a cousin who then committed suicide shortly after. He went to work to support himself, and by the age of 14, Alexander was essentially running a trading company and Alexander Hamilton will make you feel like such a loser. He was born on a tiny island in the West Indies to a poor Scotsman and a woman who was married to someone else. His father took off when he was 10 years old. Alexander then survived a major illness two years later but his mother did not, leaving him orphaned. He was taken in by a cousin who then committed suicide shortly after. He went to work to support himself, and by the age of 14, Alexander was essentially running a trading company and teaching himself everything he could learn about anything. And if life weren't bad enough, a devastating hurricane hit the island. Alexander poured out his pain and heartache into an essay which got published in the local paper and passed around to everyone on the island. It wasn't hard to see that his talent and intellect were being wasted. Despite the devastation of the hurricane, the town's wealthier residents took up a collection to send him to America for a formal education. Alex never looked back. He became a hero in the Revolutionary War. He taught himself economics and finance. He married the daughter of a wealthy NY politician. He became a congressman. He wrote most of our Constitution and defended it to the public through the extensive and brilliant Federalist Papers. He became the first Secretary of the Treasury. He invented American capitalism, the central bank, an independent judiciary, the concept of a strong central government, the stock market, the coast guard, the US Mint and our system of commerce, the New York Post, the idea of a military academy, the idea of a standing army, and the idea of VA Hospitals. He was an abolitionist who fought against slavery. He became the most sought-after lawyer in New York. He played a few instruments, sang, and enjoyed the theater. Alexander Hamilton was the embodiment of the concept of \"the American Dream\". He came from nothing and made himself into SOMETHING. So, why don't we know more about this founding father? Because Jefferson. And Madison. And Monroe. And Adams. And Burr. For all his genius, Hamilton never stopped feeling like an orphan immigrant on the inside. His rivals used that against him and smeared his name with falsehoods. He constantly fought for recognition and acceptance. I got a wonderful giggle out of this nugget of information: Nobody was more critical of Hamilton's financial system than Jefferson. He hated it, and fought it every step of the way. Jefferson even ran for president on the platform that he would destroy the system. And then when he became president and appointed his own Treasury Secretary, the secretary reported back to Jefferson that as hard as he tried, he couldn't find any faults in the brilliant system and tearing it apart would be the end of America. His ego and libido got the best of him, and Hamilton became part of the first major sex scandal in American politics. Villianized by his political enemies, he was also accused of working toward an American monarchy (when nobody defended or promoted the Constitution more than he did), of accepting bribes (total bull), and of embezzling money from the government (when he basically lived in poverty because he refused to accept outside work while working in a government position. After his death, he left his family in extreme debt.) For all he did for America, this is how we repaid him. We know how it ended. He was shot in a duel with Vice President Aaron Burr after refusing to shoot to kill Burr. Hamilton saw the duel as a way to defend his honor, while Burr saw it as a chance to murder his political enemy. The widowed Eliza Hamilton worked tirelessly until her death at age 97 to preserve Alexander's legacy but never really got to see the fruits of her labor. Well, Eliza, I think you would be thrilled to see the Hamilton mania sweeping the country right now. This well-written and thoroughly researched 800+ page biography (the notes, bibliography, and referenced articles take up 60 pages!!!) tells his story in a way nothing else has in the past. It might be late, but the country is now in love with and in awe of Alexander Hamilton. This important founding father is finally getting the recognition and respect he always craved. Ron Chernow told his story, the full story, and inspired another hard-working genius to write a musical based on this biography. Rest in peace, Alex. The world now knows everything you did to make America what it is today. ...more", "Title": "Alexander Hamilton"},
