{"Comments": "<+++>The Hunger Games Trilogy Boxset</+++>The Hunger Games Trilogy: these are my issues, let me show you them. Most of the good fiction/fantasy/scifi literature these days is coming out of the Young Adult and Juvenile areas, so every six months or so I round up the new stuff and go on a reading spree. Around two years ago that included the Hunger Games trilogy (<---B>thanks to an ARC copy of Mockingjay </---B>). I did a review on that for my work newsletter which made me think about it for a good long while. (It wasn\u2019t my best review because we\u2019re enc The Hunger Games Trilogy: these are my issues, let me show you them. Most of the good fiction/fantasy/scifi literature these days is coming out of the Young Adult and Juvenile areas, so every six months or so I round up the new stuff and go on a reading spree. Around two years ago that included the Hunger Games trilogy (thanks to an ARC copy of Mockingjay ). I did a review on that for my work newsletter which made me think about it for a good long while. (It wasn\u2019t my best review because we\u2019re encouraged not to say anything bad about the books, the object being to get people to read, not to drive them away.) The first book, Hunger Games , is awesome.<---F> Beyond awesome</---F>. I loved it and I greatly encourage anyone who hasn\u2019t read it to pick it up now and get to reading! Engaging characters, tight (in both senses of the word) narrative,<---M> a plot that</---M>, while being far from original, seems shiny and new for all the different spins <---A>Suzanne Collins</---A> puts on it. It draws out your emotions and engages them, keeps you on the edge of your seat. Highly, highly recommended. The problem is, it\u2019s best if you stop there. I sure wish the story had. At least Hunger Games stands on its own, and after reading the other two in the trilogy, I know that I can go back and just reread the first one and never have to touch the other two to have a complete fulfilling story. That\u2019s not to say that the second book is terrible. Catching Fire is actually pretty good. Not up to the same standards as the first book - it does feel like exactly what it is, the middle book in a trilogy - but not a bad read at all. Basically it both asks and answers the age-old question, \u201cIf you could go back and do it all over, knowing everything you do now, would you do anything differently?\u201d Which is intriguing, definitely. But at the same time, it is kind of a rehash of the first book, which is what makes it less engaging. The characters, the politics and the good narrative stop it from feeling tired and dull, and again, it\u2019s a good read, but it\u2019s lost its originality and some of the excitement that made the first book so entertaining. And then there\u2019s the real problem; Catching Fire isn\u2019t a complete narrative on its own. To know the whole story you have to read the third book, Mockingjay . Oh man, Mockingjay . The book that had all the potential to be a wonderful, heart-racing, utterly amazing finale to the trilogy. So much potential; so much fail. The ideas were there, but the execution was...just that. An execution. It\u2019s like everything that would\u2019ve made it a phenomenal book was taken out back and double-tapped. Even a couple years later I\u2019m still somewhat angry when I think about it. Still so disappointed. I keep asking myself, did the author have a word limit she had to adhere to? Was she over her deadline by too much and had to rush? Was she simply bored/tired of this world? What on earth could\u2019ve made her do this? Going against one of the major rules of good writing, Mockingjay is an exercise in telling instead of showing. Nothing big happens in the book that the author isn\u2019t telling us about it instead of giving us the wonderful descriptions of the previous two books. With very few exceptions, events happen off screen and we get an info dump explaining them. That alone was just terrible to read. But then there\u2019s poor Katniss. Remember the spitfire, kick-ass woman of the previous two books, the one who was determined to do whatever she could to survive and thus ensure her family\u2019s survival? Yeah, well, say goodbye to her before reading this last book because you won\u2019t be seeing much of her again. It\u2019s like she just floats through events, letting things happen to her and barely reacting. She just lets herself be used, over and over, turns into something akin to a leaf in the wind. The few decisions she does make often don\u2019t make any sort of good sense and we\u2019re left wondering if this is really Katniss or a robot in a Katniss skin. The introduction of new characters should help things, but the narrative fails there too. The characters (heck, even the old ones we\u2019re familiar with!) aren\u2019t given nearly enough fleshing out; they\u2019re just there. They don\u2019t feel as real, as three dimensional as characters did in the last two books. The combination of all that leaves us with a flat, lifeless book and what amounts to a boring read. You want to get excited, I mean, there are serious, emotional things going on! Or at least they\u2019re supposed to be. Hard to say when you don\u2019t feel it and it\u2019s just words on a page. The originality, excitement and all the drive behind the first two books is just gone. Vanished. And it\u2019s painful to see. Yeah, two years gone and I\u2019m still not over that. Such a let-down. I still encourage people to pick up The Hunger Games , but I barely give the next two in the trilogy more than a cursory mention. I reserve all my glowing praise for the first book and try to pretend the third never happened. ...more I finished reading the entire trilogy in three days so I guess it captured something in me. Although it's touted as a book for young readers there is something here for everyone. The story is told in the first person by Katniss who unwittingly becomes the \"Mockingjay\" a hybrid bird that becomes the symbol of revolution as the story enfolds. She is an extraordinary literary concoction, a clueless adolescent who morphs into a mythical huntress without ever losing the voice of a troubled teenager, I finished reading the entire trilogy in three days so I guess it captured something in me. Although it's touted as a book for young readers there is something here for everyone. The story is told in the first person by Katniss who unwittingly becomes the \"Mockingjay\" a hybrid bird that becomes the symbol of revolution as the story enfolds. She is an extraordinary literary concoction, a clueless adolescent who morphs into a mythical huntress without ever losing the voice of a troubled teenager, a sort of female Holden Caulfield impersonating Robin Hood. Like all good dystopian fiction, the world created here is enough like our own to seem not only plausible, but inevitable, if we can't get our house in order. Archetypes abound and at the center of it all is Katniss, an unforgettable heroic force who has to battle against overwhelming odds before she is able to attend to her own happiness. Imagine yourself channel-surfing between Survivor and American Idol with a bit of I, Claudius and Star Wars thrown into the mix. I can fully understand why these three books are flying off the shelves. ...more To start things off right, a quote from Hunger Games . \"The girl\u2019s scream. Had it been her last?\" Context: Katniss has been confronted with a girl who had her tongue cut off as punishment and remembers seeing her years earlier just as she was caught. According to memory, as the girl was dragged away, she screamed. Now years later and in the present, Katniss wonders: \"The girl\u2019s scream. Had it been her last?\" Because people without tongues apparently can't scream. We'll get back to this and what i To start things off right, a quote from Hunger Games . \"The girl\u2019s scream. Had it been her last?\" Context: Katniss has been confronted with a girl who had her tongue cut off as punishment and remembers seeing her years earlier just as she was caught. According to memory, as the girl was dragged away, she screamed. Now years later and in the present, Katniss wonders: \"The girl\u2019s scream. Had it been her last?\" Because people without tongues apparently can't scream. We'll get back to this and what it tells us about Suzanne Collins. To start things another way, I'll admit this: I had no interest in Hunger Games until, upon hearing someone actually describe it, I thought: \"Holy smokemonsters. That sounds like an American rip-off of Battle Royale .\" From that moment on, there was little that could stop me from diving straight into Suzanne Collins' derivative little world. See, Battle Royale was this Japanese movie (adapted from a book I haven't read yet\u2014Christmas, anyone?) in which the government, for inexplicable reasons, takes a class of thirty highscoolers every year and dumps them in this jungle-y arena and demands they fight to the death with a single victor remaining in three days lest the explosive collars they all wear be detonating, rendering no survivors. I mean, what's not to love, right? So Suzanne Collins basically takes this idea and expands it and tries to give the story a more plausible explanation. (In the movie, the Japanese government televises the BR in order to, get this, quell youth violence in the country. I know, right?) Hunger Games takes place in a post-apocalyptic North America. There is the ruling State, the Capitol, and there are the thirteen vanquished American colonies districts (or twelve since one has been destroyed). For the last seventy-four years, the Capitol has demanded the sacrifice of a teenage boy and a teenage girl from each district to remind the districts annually of how miserably their rebellion failed and to keep them mindful of how absolutely the Capitol rules every aspect of their lives. I don't know, but this strikes me as being only slightly more sensible than the Battle Royale justification. Apparently government officials in the future are as dumb as they are today. In any case, the beauty is that these two sacrifices from each of the twelve remaining districts are not just killed outright, like on an altar atop a stone ziggurat Aztec-style. No, that would be too easy. Instead, they fight in televised survival games (inexplicably called the Hunger Games). These are wildly popular (like I'm told Survivor or American Idol used to be), especially with the Capitol crowd and contestants take on a form of celebrity and their stylists are princes and princesses among men. [art by the stupendous Vera Brosgol] So Hunger Games is the story of Katniss and Peeta,* two sacrifices from District 12. District 12 is the loser District. Katniss is a hunter (advantage) and Peeta is a baker's son (disadvantage). And since Peets has had a massive, sad, stalker-crush on Kats since they were, like, five, he is determined to keep her alive forever. Interesting dynamic when, Highlander -style, there can be only one. This is basically the same thing that happened in Battle Royale , so it was a comfy place to be. Seeing how Katniss is going to get out of one scrape after another is exciting and the three books are compelling enough reading that I finished the whole thing in about nine days. (And by \"about nine days,\" I probably really just mean ten days.) As demonstrated in the above, the writing's not fantastic by any stretch. Collins suffers from a typical need to over-dramatize, to the point where irrational things are treated sensibly. But (!) it's still a league-and-a-half better than Twilight , not that there isn't much that isn't better written than Meyer's delicious collection of vampire doggerel. I only compare them because they both occupy that meta-genre of light, compulsive reads that others may better know as Summer Reading. And yet, here we are in December! Regardless, I was several nights up far past my bedtime letting Collins plot have its way with me. And for the most part, I really enjoyed the experience. There were very few lulls, most of which occurred in the first fifteen percent of books two and three as they tried to recover from the burst of excitement that capped off the immediate predecessor. The mediocre writing is entirely forgivable simply because the books not about that. Hunger Games is almost pure plot, so that's really all we should be expecting from it. Still, there were two major difficulties I ran into while reading. The first is that the narration's kind of a cheat. Collins tells her story in the first-person present, meaning that we are supposedly getting new information at the same rate as Katniss is. Yet, the things this (largely clueless) girl chooses to report lead one to believe that she has future knowledge. She drops a ton of hints about the importance of the mockingjay, is constantly reminding us that she's wearing her mockingjay pin, and won't stop narrating about how the bird or its image is showing up everywhere. As a reader, we pick up that this is massively significant (because she beats us over the head with it), but since Katniss in the present she's narrating doesn't realize that, there's no reason for her to continue to point it out. That would be like you telling me about your day and stopping every five minutes to remind me that you're wearing your Chuck Taylor's and then after three months of this, Chuck Taylor's suddenly become sentient, rebel against humanity, and then install you as their king. Unlikely, at best. So narrator-Katniss knows everything while narrated-Katniss doesn't. It's a poor choice. Collins almost certainly chose the first-person present because it builds tension (FPpresent is a standard usage in thrillers), but she wanted to be able to use things like heavy foreshadowing, which can only honestly be done in first-person past tense or in the third person. With FPpast, you're almost assured that the narrator survives the climax (save for narration from the after-life), so you're missing the kind of tension and intimacy that the present tense can deliver. Third person stories leave any character open to plot-driven dismissal, but they lack the immediacy and intimacy of the first-person. The second is less tangible but perhaps the more serious offense. At this point, things may get vaguely spoiler-y so those who haven't read the books yet may wish to skip the following paragraphs and just end the review here. So then, in comics, a trend has been noticed. It's been going as Women-in-Refrigerators syndrome for lack of a more exciting term. Essentially, it describes authors' propensity to abusively use female characters to prompt character development in male protagonists. The bottom line is that it doesn't pay to be a female character in superheroland because you'll inevitably wind up raped, maimed, tortured (in a sexy way!), accidentally killed off, murdered, or dismembered and stuffed into a refrigerator just like Green Lanterns girlfriend was\u2014all for the sake of motivating the male lead in some direction or other. Of course, in the male-dominated world of the superhero, female associations are one of the hero's greatest weaknesses and the best way to really stick it to him. Since the lead of Hunger Games is a teenage female, in order to commit a similar abuse, Collins can't just use other male and female associations to give Katniss the gut-wrenching motivation she needs. So then, what is frail in comparison to a teenage girl. Children. Specifically, little, sweet girls. Collins uses little girls twice (once in Book One and once in Book Three) to give her protagonist a human side that is otherwise unseen. Collins realizes that her hero is just a little too cold and too distant and so she must find a way to get the reader to sympathize with her. She puts forth a sweet little girl whom you'll come to find endearing and wise and beautiful and in need of protection from the dirty, cruel world that Collins has crafted and, of course, what's more painful than watching that little girl be destroyed for the sake of a melodramatic tug at one's heartstrings. Kat cries and does something heartfelt and we think of her as human again. At least for a little while. And then we realize that this was the entire purpose for this character in the scope of Collins story and then we feel abused. These were never meant to be character; they were always only a means to humanizing a character that Collins didn't have the chops to humanize in a more talented way. I was a bit grumpy when Collins used the tactic in Book One, but when it reared up again in Book Three, the books became thoroughly diminished in my eyes. I felt abused by Collins' contrivances. For this reason, I lower what would have been (meta-genre in mind) a four-star book series down to three. It's still good and worth the read (unless you have more important stuff on deck), but Collins disrespect for both her characters and her readers lessens their value. _____ *note: Suzanne Collins should not be allowed to name anything. Not books, not characters, and certainly not real-life children. The one bit of silver lining here is that thankfully, this almost assures us that in four years we won't be babysitting a gaggle of brats named Peeta\u2014apparently Bella was uncommonly common after the Twilight wave surged. ...more I had settled down to write a glowing, gushing review that would make the idiots people who haven't read this, drop everything and get their hands on this one and bask in the glow that is <---C>Katniss Everdeen</---C>. Yep, you read that right. As good as the plot, the writing and everything else is, the protagonist Katniss, outshines them all effortlessly. She is brave, courageous and strong, oh so strong. So, anyway, about the review: Nothing I can say/write can't even begin to summarize just how awesome, I had settled down to write a glowing, gushing review that would make the idiots people who haven't read this, drop everything and get their hands on this one and bask in the glow that is Katniss Everdeen. Yep, you read that right. As good as the plot, the writing and everything else is, the protagonist Katniss, outshines them all effortlessly. She is brave, courageous and strong, oh so strong. So, anyway, about the review: Nothing I can say/write can't even begin to summarize just how awesome, beautiful, heart-breaking it was is. Just imagine all the things that blow-you-away, that make you cry, that make you laugh, that make you love, that give a warm glow to your heart, that make you smile through your tears, that make your heart ache, that make you want to be a better person and combine all of them. The result: The Hunger Games Trilogy. [image error] [image error] ...more Book releases: Hunger Games 2008, Catching Fire 2009, Mockingjay 2010 Movie releases: Hunger Games 2012, Catching Fire 2013, Mockingjay, part 1 in 2014 and Mockingjay part 2 in 2015 I wanted to sit down and figure out the math of it and I figure 7 years. Between books and movies, I have about 7 years of my life invested into The Hunger Games. I picked up the first book the year it was released in 2008. I had been on a kick where, after diving into the Twilight series (don't judge me, ok you can Book releases: Hunger Games 2008, Catching Fire 2009, Mockingjay 2010 Movie releases: Hunger Games 2012, Catching Fire 2013, Mockingjay, part 1 in 2014 and Mockingjay part 2 in 2015 I wanted to sit down and figure out the math of it and I figure 7 years. Between books and movies, I have about 7 years of my life invested into The Hunger Games. I picked up the first book the year it was released in 2008. I had been on a kick where, after diving into the Twilight series (don't judge me, ok you can judge a little) I was not quite sure how to transverse myself in this new world of YA I had recently discovered. So, I was following Stephanie Meyer (tree of trust here) on her blog and she would give recommendations of books she was currently reading. She basically gave Hunger Games a drop everything and read this, read this now shoutout. So, being the lemming I was, I did. And my life was never the same. These books really rekindled my love for reading and the anticipation of waiting a year between releases, I think, really trapped me in this new fangirl universe. Not since Harry Potter, which I first read as an adult-in my early twenties, had I been so enamored in a book world. My realities blurring in that fantastical way only true readers understand. I was hooked, so before each new release, I of course would reread all books out to date. Before Catching Fire's release in 2009, I reread Hunger. Then before Mockingjay's release in 2010, I reread Hunger and Catching Fire. Then of course, when the movies were released, the rereads again commenced. Well at least for movie 1, Hunger Games, release in 2012 and movie 2, Catching Fire release in 2013. That would be two more rereads of all three books. Seeing the pattern here? Now, I did not reread before the Mockinjay movie releases, part 1 in 2014 and tonight's release of Mockingjay part 2 in 2015. The reason behind this being some events in my life in 2014 to now that simply altered my...well, my everything. But that's another post for another time. So, if my math is correct, from 2008 to 2015, then 7 years. 7 years I have invested and I'm not sure what this says or means for me now, other than my evenings meanderings. And I share because I know my fellow bibliophiles have read this in its entirety and understand. So, happy reading. Who knows, maybe that next book you pick up might be the next 7 years of your life. ...more After completing this reading of the trilogy, all together, I'd like to pull up something profound. They are, of course, thrilling stories, full of clever traps and slick evasions. They are also deeply moving stories, about the desperate people on the outside of rich society. As well, it is the story of one girl, deeply wrapped up in her own small community, who is forced to taken a broader view of her society and what it means. It's a story about how to stage a rebellion. Even more, it's a stor After completing this reading of the trilogy, all together, I'd like to pull up something profound. They are, of course, thrilling stories, full of clever traps and slick evasions. They are also deeply moving stories, about the desperate people on the outside of rich society. As well, it is the story of one girl, deeply wrapped up in her own small community, who is forced to taken a broader view of her society and what it means. It's a story about how to stage a rebellion. Even more, it's a story about the high cost of war, and how none of the survivors ever stop paying. It's a reminder to not just question authority, but to question everything. Reading it has left me sad, in a good way. ...more A dystopian 'Lord of the Flies' - loved it!! Thank you, Suzanne Collins, for a well-written YA novel. Things I heard about this trilogy before reading it: - It's about kids fighting to the death for the entertainment of the capitol's citizens. - Just read the 1st book, because nobody likes how it all ends. - If you do read all of them, you'll notice they get less enjoyable as it goes on. - Those who don't just outright dislike the ending simply consider it appropriate. As a result, I read the books with these things in mind. I can say I understand why people would say those things, but I also take is Things I heard about this trilogy before reading it: - It's about kids fighting to the death for the entertainment of the capitol's citizens. - Just read the 1st book, because nobody likes how it all ends. - If you do read all of them, you'll notice they get less enjoyable as it goes on. - Those who don't just outright dislike the ending simply consider it appropriate. As a result, I read the books with these things in mind. I can say I understand why people would say those things, but I also take issue with why people would say those things. Why would people say those things? Because they are reading for entertainment, and expected an engaging plot with relatable characters and themes that would take them on a journey to another world. These books made the rounds through the ranks of those who were brought into the fold of readers by the success of Harry Potter, and that's the golden standard of what a story should be to them. The focus in the Potter books is on the plot and the characters' journey and growth through it all, and though they explore some mature themes, that element is used more as a storytelling device to drive character growth and plot development, and is only slipped in once the reader is enthralled by the world of the books and the characters within. In contrast, The Hunger Games trilogy is not about Katniss, Gale, and Peeta, and their adventures in the land of Panem, and should not be read as such. This is where people get confused in their reactions to the books, and those who focus on the plot and characters as if they were reading another Harry Potter often give up reading due to taking offense at the content and events of the books. Instead of the characters and plot being the focus, they are merely vessels for exploring the presented themes. \"It's about kids fighting to the death blah blah blah.\" If you summarize the plot of any particular dystopian novel you will likely end up with something that sounds just as appealing to the average reader(not appealing at all). Example: 1984 - A guy manages to escape government surveillance for a time (which time he pretty much squanders) and is eventually caught and tortured for his disobedience. Like other dystopias, the plot and characters are only vessels for exploring the themes, which is what the trilogy is really about. The Hunger Games trilogy is about exploitation and manipulation (including propaganda), class warfare, human suffering, and many other morally gray areas that people in general find it difficult to cope with and discuss. The books ask questions about the morality of war, crime, and punishment. They don't dodge the reality of death and loss, which comes even to those who try to do everything they can to prevent it. They explore many facets of human imperfection and how they translate into life. \"Just read the first book.\" This kind of mindset comes directly from what I described. The reader is reading about Katniss, and not thinking deeply about the themes being presented. If you had to end the series somewhere easy for Katniss, then yeah, just the first book would probably be best. She had to go through the torture of the games, and SOMETHING had to happen for there to be a story, but she's only got boy problems left. Aside from that, life appears to be back to normal. Except it isn't if you've been paying attention. How could life possibly ever be fine again for this young girl tortured and forced into murder by her government because she wanted to protect her little sister? There's a horde of deep moral questions raised that aren't resolved when the 1st book ends. If the reader was reading for the plot, they didn't notice or care for these, and the only question left is \"who does Katniss end up with in the end?\" which appears to be enough to propel people through the remaining two books otherwise there wouldn't be the continued poor reaction to the ending. The irony of it all is that someone reading these books with the mindset of needing to know what happens next is put in the position of comparing themselves to the citizens of the Capitol watching the televised games! \"Who won the games?\" is the question needing answering for both parties, and they are happy to set it aside after that has been answered (the first book). This ties into the \"they get less enjoyable as they go on\" experience as well. The themes come more and more to the forefront as the story progresses, and someone reading for the plot will definitely not enjoy so much death, confusion, and pain. They are reading for an escape, and do not want to be forced to think of the implications of such things. As for the very ending, notice how I said ending after the first book would be \"easy\" for Katniss, but didn't say it would be best. The ending is perfect, really. Yeah, it is definitely sad that happened after all of that pain and suffering, but would Katniss have made the choice to do what she did if that hadn't happened? I don't think she would. She's motivated for partially selfish reasons, and that's what allows her to get manipulated so much in the first place. Personally, I think the ending is about as Hollywood happy ending as it could be made without betraying the themes of the book. All of this being said, I gave it 4 out of 5 stars. Although I applaud the author for attempting to bring the Potter rabble into the realm of heavy fiction, her writing style blurs the line a little too much and leads to confusion over what the reader is supposed to get out of the experience. Those who regularly read and study the kind of books that explore these deeper topics should easily recognize the merit these books deserve, however. What I am most worried about is the movie adaptation. Will they effectively bring the thematic elements to the silver screen or will we be a nation enthralled by the special effects and intense action of the games, no better than the Capital citizens we detest? ...more I can't believe I read this. After I read Twilight and was bitterly disappointed with the last two books in that series, I swore I would never pick up any more YA fiction. Not to mention I feel slightly embarrassed reading YA fiction anyway. Well you know what they say about never say never... Several co-workers and I exchange books and one passed this one along, saying that she thought I'd like it. I read the back cover description and said \"nah.\" I am not into futuristic, dystopic, sci-fi, Star I can't believe I read this. After I read Twilight and was bitterly disappointed with the last two books in that series, I swore I would never pick up any more YA fiction. Not to mention I feel slightly embarrassed reading YA fiction anyway. Well you know what they say about never say never... Several co-workers and I exchange books and one passed this one along, saying that she thought I'd like it. I read the back cover description and said \"nah.\" I am not into futuristic, dystopic, sci-fi, Star-Trek, Lord of the Rings, blah blah. But I did enjoy Harry Potter because it wasn't a completely unrecognizable world but instead a parallel universe. It's not like Harry had to make a choice to never go back to the land of the muggles, unlike Bella, who turned into a vampire and was now a completely different creature. (and add vampire lit to my list - it's overdone.) So after a few months of pushing this around, I picked up the first one and oh boy I finished it in two days. Had to take a brief rest so I wouldn't get saturated but I needed that instant gratification and read the next two books cover-to-cover in just a few days. Well I wish I had paced myself a little better. I honestly cannot give this series 4 or 5 stars because, let's face it, 5 stars belongs to Crime and Punishment, On the Road, Sophie's Choice, etc. I gave this 3 stars because I did enjoy the story, the writing was skillful and the author was very mindful in developing her characters and their environment. I totally felt myself plunked down into District 12 and felt Mrs. Everdeen's pain, Haymitch's wasted life, the superiority of the Capitol, Katniss's bitterness at having lost her dad and having to be the sole support for her family. That whole scene where Peeta threw her a loaf of bread while she was foraging in the trash, in the rain, oh my god, the pathos... The reaping day description took me back to Shirley Jackson's \"The Lottery\" and since that was a short story and this was a series, I knew that the sacrificial lamb was going to be around for at least one entire book. I did kind of wonder why Katniss wasn't thinking about Gale all the time when she was in the arena, but I suppose when you're fighting to stay alive your boyfriend back home kind of takes a backseat. I did fall in love with Peeta - nothing more needs be said on that. Gale - meh. Although he is supposedly the one Katniss loves, I don't get that vibe at all, not in any of the books. I got more of a sense of romantic conflict in the Twilight series, so Team Peeta/Team Gale? nah. It's Peeta all the way, baby. Not to mention that Gale willingly went to, oh wait. don't want to put any spoilers here. So it was enjoyable and I do like the young feller who will portray Peeta in the Hunger Games movie. I saw him in a few movies where he was like 9 years old, and these days he is looking fine. ...more Fabulous series! Highly recommended. Written as young adult fiction, but absolutely enjoyable for adults. The Hunger Games trilogy left a bitter taste in my mouth - the taste of failure, of a wonderful opportunity thrown away. The writer seems to have immersed herself in her fictional world just as much as a high school student would in a tedious, boring homework. Either that, or she is simply unable to focus her thoughts and make the readers actually see through her eyes. The descriptions are dry, the people and the world around them are colorless. It actually feels to me like the story has been cen The Hunger Games trilogy left a bitter taste in my mouth - the taste of failure, of a wonderful opportunity thrown away. The writer seems to have immersed herself in her fictional world just as much as a high school student would in a tedious, boring homework. Either that, or she is simply unable to focus her thoughts and make the readers actually see through her eyes. The descriptions are dry, the people and the world around them are colorless. It actually feels to me like the story has been censored and stripped down to the bone in an attempt to make it appropriate for as wide an audience as possible. The deus ex machina strikes mercilessly again and again at the already frail realism; the harrowing times when the characters are forced to wait it out in grueling circumstances don't harrow much at all - instead, they are shrugged off with an almost bored \"and so the hours and days went by\"; injuries always seem to either have an on-off switch or conveniently benefit from \"coincidental\" recovery periods (which are skipped just as easily with the same forced fast-forwarding); with only a few exceptions, the author seems to get scared and cringe away when reaching violent scenes. All of this finally contributes to the feeling that you're reading a medical treaty written by a butcher with good intentions. Someone said \"if in doubt, write about what you know\" - so I expected at least a more profound delving into the female psyche; I was, again, sorely disappointed. Just like the right spices in an exotic dish, teen angst can work wonders in a knowing hand, but the story overdoses on it and never recovers. Katniss is one-dimensional and never truly evolves; but since the entire world revolves around her, let's take a closer look. As profound and complex as a Hello Kitty sticker, her opinions and attitudes may change, but only erratically - there is no progress, no sense of becoming. It's beyond me how some women actually see Katniss as a role model - unless your ideal woman is a self-centered, conceited, ungrateful, narrow-minded, sniveling, responsibility-avoiding huntress who never comes to terms with her own survival instinct. The attempt to give her flaws that are supposed to make her human and bring her to life in our minds stops short, instead only managing to make her insufferable, willfully stupid and in possession of just as much female intuition as a weightlifter on steroids. Neither heroine nor antiheroine, Katniss doesn't truly care about anything or anyone but herself and makes a perfect case in point for the selfishness of altruism. Her mother, her love interests, her friends - everyone (including the sister she apparently loves so much) are little more than cardboard figures passing through the background of her life, doing little more than complicating it. In the first person point of view dominating the books we have no chance of actually getting to know the other characters, not even though the Mockingjay's eyes - the whole world is Katniss, Katniss, Katniss. One would think that this might at least bring a solid insight into her own perspective - wrong. The artificial way in which she \"misunderstands\" situations and intentions only to be overcome by \"sudden realization\" over and over again goes from being irritating to insulting as the story progresses, only to end up not even being able to aspire to the status of a cheap writer's trick. The love triangle pieces seem to have been forcefully inserted into the books by someone hating men and women alike with the fierce passion of an inquisitor but uncomprehending mind of someone growing up alone in a glass bubble. That's all I'm going to say on the romantic plot, since it's just an ugly mess, absolutely lacking any credibility or coherence. All in all, reading the trilogy felt like I was being taken for a baby in a peek-a-boo game while being force-fed a cheap moral lesson and lectured on what I should feel and think instead of being allowed to actually experience it and come to my own conclusions. I am, perhaps, so critical in my review because I've seen this whole thing done right in the \"Mistborn\" series. Sanderson starts from a similar idea of a conflicted young girl coming of age in an oppressive environment and ending up at the heart of a rebellion against the powers that be (even the star-crossed lovers angle is there) - but the similarities end here. While Sanderson creates an intriguing multifaceted world, masterfully picks at the organized chaos of the human mind and portrays the struggle of a girl powerful enough to make decisions (even wrong ones) and change herself as well as the world around her on her journey, Collins just ends up botching the job and presenting little more than a tiresome, judgmental, self-absorbed diary of a bitterly crude personality. ...more Let's face it, the moment we all hear the words 'young adult fiction', our brains jump to the Twilight series. This jump is then followed by Edward-induced delirium or nausea so sickening that you wish you'd had a lobotomy instead of letting Stephanie Meyer infect your life. (No prizes for guessing which side I'm on). It's unfortunate that the Hunger Games trilogy is boxed into the same genre as Twilight. Not only is it infinitely better in terms of story and characterization, it has that one sp Let's face it, the moment we all hear the words 'young adult fiction', our brains jump to the Twilight series. This jump is then followed by Edward-induced delirium or nausea so sickening that you wish you'd had a lobotomy instead of letting Stephanie Meyer infect your life. (No prizes for guessing which side I'm on). It's unfortunate that the Hunger Games trilogy is boxed into the same genre as Twilight. Not only is it infinitely better in terms of story and characterization, it has that one special feature that is the hallmark of a truly great read - relevance. Irrespective of how you like or dislike each book, you will be left with that elusive feeling that some things in them are too close to our lives for comfort. On the surface, the universe of the Hunger Games has very little in common with ours. The trilogy is set in the future and takes place in the country of Panem - we are given to understand that this was once North America, before war and avarice tore the continent apart. The country is divided into 13 destitute districts ruled by a rich Capitol city - a Capitol that ruthlessly punishes the districts for their only rebellion by forcing a young girl and boy from each district to participate in an annual, televised fight to the death called the Hunger Games. The Games are wildly popular among the 'civilized' audience of the Capitol who watch the 'show' with obsessive involvement as a bunch of 9-17 year olds from the 'barbaric' districts shoot, choke, hack and burn each other to death in the quest to be the last contestant standing (Reality shows anyone??). Winning the Hunger Games means a life of comfort for the victor\u2019s family as well as a year's worth of food and supplies to the winning district. In this horribly disturbing world, we are introduced to the protagonist Katniss Everdeen, a girl who volunteers to take her little sister's place in the Hunger Games. The trilogy is essentially the story of Katniss and how she goes from a girl struggling to win the Games to a symbol of rebellion for the oppressed. It is also the story of her complex relationships with the very masculine Gale and the doggedly loyal Peeta, two very different heroes whose characters are steadily etched out as the trilogy progresses. Katniss\u2019s character is at once brave and selfish, steadfast and inconsistent, strong and weak \u2013 I was quite let down by the way she turns out in the last book but the author almost compensates for it by great character development in Peeta. The books are by no means perfect, the most notable flaw being how the author invests time and effort in creating a strong, fearless heroine only to have her fall apart by the end. However, the plot is very gripping and it\u2019s difficult to stop yourself from reading \u2018just another chapter\u2019. And when you\u2019re done reading all three books at a breakneck pace and your eyes are about to give up, there will be a several lingering questions in your mind starting with the first and most important one - how far would you go for the people that you love? ...more A stream of human unpleasantness, cruelty, cynicism, lovingly described pain and brutalities, lascivious dwelling on injury and slaughter and gratuitous death. Basically, these books are badly written torture porn. Deeply unrewarding, lacking in affirmation, and worse, rather insincere due to the lack of emotional impact and paucity of credible characters. Character development is replaced by facile violence whilst empathy is reduced to no less cheap empty sentiments, meaningless words trotted o A stream of human unpleasantness, cruelty, cynicism, lovingly described pain and brutalities, lascivious dwelling on injury and slaughter and gratuitous death. Basically, these books are badly written torture porn. Deeply unrewarding, lacking in affirmation, and worse, rather insincere due to the lack of emotional impact and paucity of credible characters. Character development is replaced by facile violence whilst empathy is reduced to no less cheap empty sentiments, meaningless words trotted out. I could not care for any of the characters, who were a thoroughly unpleasant bunch for the most part, the lead characters lacking in credibility and real motivation; the good supporting characters few and far apart and always boringly bland and destined to die, the bad ones tirelessly verminous, either violent propagators of pain or uninterestingly, obliviously selfish. The romantic subplot was handled with the subtlety of mouldy porridge and the same level of emotional range. This is a trilogy that is at least three books too long, poorly paced, a truly powerful story and concept let down by characterless characters and a colourless, workmanlike prose that is the literary equivalent of whatever Kristen Stewart is doing when she's trying to act. ...more Katnis is a compelling character living in a time of deprevation and oppression. It is her actions in the face of this world that set her apart, that inspire others to action. But it is her humility, her lack of belief or understanding in her own self worth that make her so lovable. For the most part Katnis keeps her feelings and emotions guarded or hidden. These things make it hard for her to accept at face value that anyone could love her, or want to help her. I loved the first book, it is hard Katnis is a compelling character living in a time of deprevation and oppression. It is her actions in the face of this world that set her apart, that inspire others to action. But it is her humility, her lack of belief or understanding in her own self worth that make her so lovable. For the most part Katnis keeps her feelings and emotions guarded or hidden. These things make it hard for her to accept at face value that anyone could love her, or want to help her. I loved the first book, it is hard to comprehend a world in which these oppressive living conditions and the games were an accepted part of life, to see how Katnis reacted to this world and the games, and to see her love of life and her compassion for others in face of the oppression and injustice of the games. I need to confess to a book prejudice...the ending is a major factor in my judgment about a book, and this one failed on several accounts. First the book builds this tension throughout about which boy Katnis loves or will love, but it turns out she just settles for one? And, for the most part Katnis is a girl of action in book one, and for the most part she's portrayed as a pawn especially in book three. You feel like jumping for joy when she yanks out her ear bud and runs to the roof top in the bombing raid, acting on her own, disobeying orders, but the rest of the book... Since, for review purposes, I'm treating these three books as one I feel I need to asterisk my choice of stars, book #1 would be a 5 star, book #2 would be a 4 star and book #3 would be a 2 star in my mind. ...more It\u2019s not everyday that a hero comes along who makes archery look totally badass. It\u2019s also not everyday that a sidekick comes along who makes the art of baking pastries look totally lame. But needless to say, they make a great team when their lives are on the line. Suzanne Collins has crafted a book trilogy that seamlessly embodies rebellion, power, survival, and the collapse of a government due to a handful of berries. Katniss Everdeen is your average, everyday, stubborn teenager who also happen It\u2019s not everyday that a hero comes along who makes archery look totally badass. It\u2019s also not everyday that a sidekick comes along who makes the art of baking pastries look totally lame. But needless to say, they make a great team when their lives are on the line. Suzanne Collins has crafted a book trilogy that seamlessly embodies rebellion, power, survival, and the collapse of a government due to a handful of berries. Katniss Everdeen is your average, everyday, stubborn teenager who also happens to support her family with her excellent aim with a bow and arrow. In mere seconds, she can shoot any Stephenie Meyer novel out of the hands of giddy teenage girls before they\u2019re in too far over their heads. She also hunts animals outside the borders of her home, the coal-mining District 12, to bring back to her struggling mother and young sister. Each year, a male and female tribute are picked from each district (12 being the last) to participate in the Hunger Games, a televised fight to death involving, you guessed it, children. Lovely, isn\u2019t it? Prim is Katniss\u2019 younger sister, who has only had her name put into the drawing once, for the one year she has been eligible to play. Katniss\u2019 childhood friend Gale, has had his name put in dozens of times, due to not only his age but also to his purchasing of food supplies in exchange for more entries. Because life sucks, Prim is chosen from the female candidates, and Gale is not chosen from the male candidates. Instead, we get Peeta Mellark, the son of a baker. Being the good, strong support system she is, Katniss volunteers in Prim\u2019s place, and hijinks ensue. By hijinks, I mean Peeta and Katniss meet their fellow tributes, train for a couple of weeks, and are thrust into an arena to brutally, unapologetically murder each other. But enough with the lighthearted aspects of the Hunger Games trilogy. Katniss and Peeta outsmart the Capitol by threatening to ingest deadly berries, and they both escape from the arena alive. The Capitol, a bunch of insane control freaks, isn\u2019t thrilled with what went down. So naturally, the following year they force Katniss and Peeta to compete again, this time with former victors of the games. When they also find loopholes in THOSE games, things go haywire faster than they will once general audiences read my jab at the Twilight series. Katniss goes from being the pawn of a much bigger game to a symbol of freedom and strength\u2026 and that\u2019s only in the first installment. I was a fan of the Hunger Games the moment I picked up the first book. For a young-adult series, the books are dark, violent, and gritty, and that\u2019s something I appreciate in popular culture. Collins was not afraid to push the genre to the limit, exposing audiences to the impenitent nature of a powerful dystopian government and the bravery that needs to rise to put said government in its place. These are very adult situations, but putting a young adult in those situations allows for a very different perspective and outlook, giving younger audiences the opportunity to read up on topics previously available specifically to adults. On a literary level, Collins writes in a typical fashion for young-adult books of the same genre, but her voice adds a very adult, intelligent touch that kept me reading. She didn\u2019t sugarcoat anything for her readers, and only those with strong minds (and at often times, stomachs) can handle the grit and velocity that the Hunger Games carries to the end. That was something else that kept me reading: the speed of the novels never lets up, and each installment is just as exciting as the last. If you hear any criticisms about the third installment, tell those critics to take it up with Haymitch Abernathy, Katniss and Peeta\u2019s mentor, who will care about what they have to say as much as he cares about non-alcoholic beverages. Collins weaves a storyline that, with the events of the third book included, can only be ended in one way, and she goes for it. She has really written a great series of books that, to me, have become a game-changer for young-adult literature. ...more I never got around to reading this series, though I bought the bundle back in September when it was on sale, until I started seeing the trailers for the movie. Then I saw an extended trailer at the theater and had to read it right now . I'll be going to see the movie, so I knew I had to read the books first. Hunger Games: I thought the first book was outstanding. Very compelling and somewhat horrifying, but the pacing and narrative voice sucked me in. As the mother of 11 and 16 year old boys, I di I never got around to reading this series, though I bought the bundle back in September when it was on sale, until I started seeing the trailers for the movie. Then I saw an extended trailer at the theater and had to read it right now . I'll be going to see the movie, so I knew I had to read the books first. Hunger Games: I thought the first book was outstanding. Very compelling and somewhat horrifying, but the pacing and narrative voice sucked me in. As the mother of 11 and 16 year old boys, I did catch myself a few times imagining the Tributes as older, but I stopped doing that after a while. I couldn't put it down until I found out how it ended. Catching Fire: This book was mostly a bridge between the first and third books, but still a good read in its own right. One thing that kept me uneasy throughout was the love triangle. I'm not a fan of love triangles anyway, but this one seemed like more of an emotional knot than most. When I got to the end, i was so glad I had the bundle and could just turn the page to the next book. I would have been so mad if I'd read it when it first released and had to wait for the third book. Mockingjay: It fell apart a little with the third book. One thing I noticed as I was reading was that, because Katniss was our only POV character, a lot of the action took place off the page. We, as readers, had to sit around and wait with her to get a recap of the important events. It was still an engrossing read, though. And then came...the end. (view spoiler) [The death that occurs at the end took a big bite out of my enjoyment of the series as a whole. Because of Katniss's primary motivation throughout the entire series, that death was the true ending and it wasn't a happy one. I think it only served as a way to resolve the love triangle and I was disappointed, even though we get a happily ever after epilogue for Katniss. (hide spoiler) ] I'm still giving the Hunger Games trilogy has a whole four stars, though, because it sucked me in and didn't let me go until the very last page. Since I don't read YA and I don't read post-apocalyptic fiction and I rarely read first person, that was quite a feat. ...more I absolutely LOVED everything about this trilogy! Suzanne Collins possesses all the talent I have been looking unsuccessfully for in a modern author for a VERY long time- which is why I mostly stick to re-reading classics. Thank you, thank you Ms. Collins for restoring my faith in fiction after the fickle and meteoric rise to super-fame of much less talented storytellers over the past decade! This story is so steadily driven toward it's end goal, and the character development is refreshingly, and I absolutely LOVED everything about this trilogy! Suzanne Collins possesses all the talent I have been looking unsuccessfully for in a modern author for a VERY long time- which is why I mostly stick to re-reading classics. Thank you, thank you Ms. Collins for restoring my faith in fiction after the fickle and meteoric rise to super-fame of much less talented storytellers over the past decade! This story is so steadily driven toward it's end goal, and the character development is refreshingly, and in some cases tragically realistic. I found myself surprised many times over by how attached I had become to even minor characters as the story progressed. It was entertaining, believable, touching, and significant. Having said all of that- I think it's important to know that this is not an easy story to hear. It's also not really an action-packed adventure, although it does have quite a bit of that. It is a story about adversity, love, courage, and the strength of the human spirit. And it's most definitely not sugar-coated. I would argue that it should not be classified as YA fiction. The only thing \"young adult\" about this book is that the main characters happen to be in their teens. But as the reader quickly learns, they became adults long before the story even started, and it's all uphill from there. ...more I still have such a hard time accepting that this stark dystopian series was aimed at middle school young adults, and knowing that even younger children are reading it (with parental approval). Yes, Katniss is a strong heroine, but the book is bereft of other lasting loyal human friendship except between the two sisters. Almost everything and everyone else is for sale or manipulation. I read the whole trilogy hoping in vain for redemption, revolution among the children at some point. The trilogy I still have such a hard time accepting that this stark dystopian series was aimed at middle school young adults, and knowing that even younger children are reading it (with parental approval). Yes, Katniss is a strong heroine, but the book is bereft of other lasting loyal human friendship except between the two sisters. Almost everything and everyone else is for sale or manipulation. I read the whole trilogy hoping in vain for redemption, revolution among the children at some point. The trilogy should come with an enormous warning for parents and teachers to read the set first to see if they want their kids to get caught up in this sad view. Yes, Harry Potter has darkness also, but it has a wide team of strong kids and adults who care for each other and stand by each other. Yes, they have their own weaknesses--they are well-drawn characters in the Potter series--but they are ultimately working for good and against evil. In the Hunger Games, nearly anyone will betray anyone and can be sold out for survival, and no one can be trusted. A desperately bleak world view. I know I am in the minority here, but I don't get the popularity, except for the strength of Katniss. What am I missing? ...more I snagged this trilogy during an ebook sale in late September 2011. I had already read the first novel, the Hunger Games ( click here for my review ) in April 2010, and really hadn't planned on continuing. But the sale price was just too good to pass up. I started Catching Fire on October 13th (no it wasn't a Friday) and should have it finished before the ides of October 2011. As promised, I finished reading the second novel on October 15th ( click here for my review ). I started Mockingjay on Octob I snagged this trilogy during an ebook sale in late September 2011. I had already read the first novel, the Hunger Games ( click here for my review ) in April 2010, and really hadn't planned on continuing. But the sale price was just too good to pass up. I started Catching Fire on October 13th (no it wasn't a Friday) and should have it finished before the ides of October 2011. As promised, I finished reading the second novel on October 15th ( click here for my review ). I started Mockingjay on October 20th and finished it on Sunday, the 23rd. For my thoughts on the final installment, please read my review found here . Overall, I will rate this series three stars via GoodReads (since I gave the first and last books three stars and the middle book four stars), but 3.5 stars using my own rating system. I really can't recommend this series to young adults (I would treat it like an R-rated movie for my own kids, were they still teenagers), due to the violence, gore and lack of inspiring elements. Katniss is not a character I would want my daughter to emulate. ...more I'm late to the party with this one, so I won't bother to write a full review. I read the whole trilogy after seeing the first movie. (I am, of course, assuming that they will make the others.) After seeing the movie, I knew much of what to expect in the book, although I have to say that it was nice to see some of the things I'd inferred from the action of the movie laid out explicitly in the book. (view spoiler) [In particular, I was glad to see that I was right about Katniss' relationship with P I'm late to the party with this one, so I won't bother to write a full review. I read the whole trilogy after seeing the first movie. (I am, of course, assuming that they will make the others.) After seeing the movie, I knew much of what to expect in the book, although I have to say that it was nice to see some of the things I'd inferred from the action of the movie laid out explicitly in the book. (view spoiler) [In particular, I was glad to see that I was right about Katniss' relationship with Peeta in the first Games--that she was uncertain about her feelings but knew she needed to manipulate the sponsors. (hide spoiler) ] If I hadn't read the full trilogy all at one go, I might have stopped after the first book. It was good, but seeing the movie first (as well as the sheer predictability of it) weakened the emotional intensity of it for me. However, I did have the full trilogy, and the second book sucked me in completely. I understand there is some debate in fan circles about the last book. I will put myself in the camp of those that loved it. It was brutal and exactly what it needed to be. ...more Aqu\u00ed ten\u00e9is las reviews por separada por si alguien le importa verlas por separado. Juegos del hambre: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... En llamas: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Sinsajo: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... En resumen el primer libro esta bien, el segundo libro es mas de lo mismo y el tercer libro entra en lo absurdo(review del Sinsajo para mas informaci\u00f3n). Tambi\u00e9n tener en cuenta que aqu\u00ed valoro el leer los 3 libros, no una media aritm\u00e9tica de los 3 libros, qu Aqu\u00ed ten\u00e9is las reviews por separada por si alguien le importa verlas por separado. Juegos del hambre: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... En llamas: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Sinsajo: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... En resumen el primer libro esta bien, el segundo libro es mas de lo mismo y el tercer libro entra en lo absurdo(review del Sinsajo para mas informaci\u00f3n). Tambi\u00e9n tener en cuenta que aqu\u00ed valoro el leer los 3 libros, no una media aritm\u00e9tica de los 3 libros, que vendr\u00eda a ser como un libro que empieza muy bien, luego va cayendo y el final es una mierda, con lo cual acabo concluyendo que leer el primer libro es recomendable, pero que los otros 2 hagas ver que no existen. Nota 3,5/10 (1,5 stars) ...more \u0628\u064e\u0639\u0636\u064f \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a\u0652 .. \u062c\u0645\u064a\u0644\u0629\u064c \u0648\u063a\u0627\u064a\u0629\u064c \u0641\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0639\u0629.. \u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0646 \u064a\u0645\u062f\u062d\u0647\u0627 \u0634\u062e\u0635 .. \u0623\u0648 \u064a\u062b\u0652\u0646\u064a \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 .. \u062d\u062a\u0649 \u064a\u0646\u0642\u0635\u064e\u0647\u0627 \u062d\u0642\u064e\u0647\u0627 .. \u0648\u062b\u0644\u0627\u062b\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0628\u0627\u0631\u064a\u0627\u062a \u0627\u0644\u062c\u0648\u0639 \u0645\u0646 \u0647\u0630\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0627\u062a . The Hunger Games trilogy has generated a lot of buzz recently, mostly due to the upcoming (and fantastic looking) movie adaptation of the first book. So I decided to bump it up on my to-read list. And I wasn't disappointed. For those unfamiliar with the trilogy, it's set in a dystopian future America, called Panem, where various unnamed wars and environmental catastrophes have devastated the human race and left much of the Earth's landmass underwater. Panem is ruled by a totalitarian regime calle The Hunger Games trilogy has generated a lot of buzz recently, mostly due to the upcoming (and fantastic looking) movie adaptation of the first book. So I decided to bump it up on my to-read list. And I wasn't disappointed. For those unfamiliar with the trilogy, it's set in a dystopian future America, called Panem, where various unnamed wars and environmental catastrophes have devastated the human race and left much of the Earth's landmass underwater. Panem is ruled by a totalitarian regime called the Capitol, that showers itself in wealth while enslaving the people within its twelve districts. Each district has a specific trade that nearly everyone is expected (and forced) to contribute to. The defining mark of the Capitol regime is \"the Hunger Games,\" an annual event where both a male and female tribute from each district are forced to fight to the death in a massive booby-trap ridden arena as perpetual punishment for an uprising in a time called \"the Dark Days.\" The trilogy follows the life of a teenager named Katniss, who volunteers to take the place of her younger sister as a tribute from District 12. In the first book, The Hunger Games itself, Katniss fights for her life both in the arena using her honed survival skills and within the cut-throat (literally) politics of the Capitol. Her mentor, former Hunger Games victor Haymitch, who knows how to play the Capitol's political games, sets Katniss and fellow District 12 tribute, Peeta, up as a pair of \"star-crossed\" lovers, a theme that follows them throughout the entire trilogy. The Hunger Games themselves are quite brutal to read through (and I imagine will be even more brutal to watch), as the scenes of the \"Games\" involve children killing each other in the most horrible ways imaginable. However, they mark the center of a well-written and poignant story about the nature of humanity and its relationship with power. The end of the The Hunger Games is predictable (I saw it coming for a while), but that doesn't make it any less effective. In fact, it makes it even more so, especially as you learn more and more about the other tributes and become attached to them as well. The beginning of the trilogy, in my opinion, is a perfect execution of the kind of world that Collins was going for. It has the perfect amount of drama, violence, and romance, all wrapped up in a powerful moral message that's lessons are defined by the abundant corruption seen on just about every page of the book. So, the first book is an amazing read. But what about the other two? The second book in the trilogy, Catching Fire, begins to shift the story away from the corruption itself and more onto its effects on Katniss. The major plot still chugs along just fine, but the focus on Katniss' emotional state as the story progresses is much sharper and incredibly shocking. And Collins pulls this off perfectly as well. I often see a lot of authors gloss over ambivalence in their characters, as if keeping them \"steady\" is realistic. But Collins doesn't fall for this. She shows every little mistake, every moment of confusion, that Katniss experiences throughout, and if this doesn't make Katniss a realistic heroine, then I don't know what does. One of the things I enjoyed most from Catching Fire is the abundance of new characters. Since most of the characters you come to love in The Hunger Games actually end up dead by the end, they need some good replacements. And Collins delivers, in my opinion, even better ones. This is because Catching Fire revolves around the \"Quarter Quell,\" which is a Hunger Games round where the normal rules are thrown out the window and a special set of tributes is chosen. And, of course, this Quarter Quell's tributes...are chosen from the previous winners. Seeing as Katniss is the only female winner from District 12, she automatically has to compete. You see, in the first book, Katniss uses a trick to save both her and Peeta's life (since there is usually only one winner). The \"president\" of Panem, Snow, and makers of the Hunger Games, therefore, are humiliated and shamed. And beyond that, Katniss' defiance of the Capitol's rules sets off a rebellious streak in all twelve districts. And so a target is painted on Katniss. One that is not erased until the very end of the trilogy. Catching Fire then proceeds to introduce some of the most memorable characters ever. Since the contestants are past tributes, they each bring heavy histories and emotional baggage to the Quarter Quell. They also bring a plan to break out of the arena, unbeknownst to Katniss. To me, following the stories and plans of these new characters was far more compelling than the ones from The Hunger Games. And so, at the end of Catching Fire, we are left with a setup that promises a grand finale. Then we get to Mockingjay. I'd seen a lot of people around before I started the series who didn't like Mockingjay, and after starting the series, I kept wondering why. Then I actually got to it, and I understood perfectly. Mockingjay is not like the first two books. Whereas the focus in the first two is split about evenly between the main plot line and Katniss' emotions and thoughts, the final book suddenly tips the scales toward the latter. By a lot. While the plot still marches onward toward an exciting, horrifying, and bittersweet finale, its often overshadowed by Katniss' collapsing mental state. There were times in the book when the only thing I could focus on was Katniss' obvious and severe post-traumatic stress disorder. She ends up in the hospital so many times, drugged up on the equivalent of morphine and suffering endless nightmares, that I often forgot what else was actually happening. I still like Mockingjay, quite a lot, but it is hard to have the same feelings for it as I do for the first two. The story descends into a pit of severe depression and mental trauma that it never really climbs out of, and it tended to jar me a bit out of the story as a whole every now and then. Now, don't get me wrong. The events of Mockingjay and Katniss' declining mental state were obviously planned by Collins to have this effect on the reader. Collins doesn't spare any expense to make you feel the pain her characters are in and to understand why they're suffering. It's plainly obvious that one of Collins' major points was to make the world of The Hunger Games universe as real as it could possibly be. And she succeeded, in my opinion, because there really is no getting around the fact that the mental and emotional trauma, the horrors of war, and the stress that her characters face are eerily and horrifically realistic. But at the same time, that level of realism has the potential to turn some readers off, especially since the series is YA. So, while I find that the series as a whole is a dystopian masterpiece, I will warn you now that it descends into some very dark and disturbing places. You will watch as teenagers have their lives completely destroyed, their families killed and tortured, their minds left in tatters, and their emotions horrifically distorted. Permanently. And even at end of all things, you won't find any real happiness. You'll find realism. And that realism entails the depiction of horrors of totalitarianism and war and its lasting effects on the people who experience it. So, The Hunger Games trilogy. Dark. Thrilling. Poignant. Realistic. Should you read it? Definitely. ...more I really feel these books need to be evaluated together, as they are meant to be read together. I found the books simultaneously compelling and painful and while I read them in what amounts to about 2 days worth of reading, they were incredibly fatiguing to read. It is Shirley Jackson's The Lottery, meets reality tv, meets Wag the Dog. Here are my thoughts on the different aspects of the books, please be aware of spoilers and if you don't want to read them, stop here. (What's the point of talkin I really feel these books need to be evaluated together, as they are meant to be read together. I found the books simultaneously compelling and painful and while I read them in what amounts to about 2 days worth of reading, they were incredibly fatiguing to read. It is Shirley Jackson's The Lottery, meets reality tv, meets Wag the Dog. Here are my thoughts on the different aspects of the books, please be aware of spoilers and if you don't want to read them, stop here. (What's the point of talking about a book without talking through the details.) The Love Triangle: I'll get this out of the way first, since it really is the most boring. After the ridiculous love triangle of the Twilight series, I hoped for something different as soon as this love story was introduced. I was disappointed. Here again, we have a teenage girl that has essentially already made up her mind (Gale is actually her choice, but more on that later), but continues to string two guys along throughout the series. While I found it believable that she was blissfully unaware of Peeta's feelings for her, it was completely unbelievable that she remains in ignorance for so long. Maybe her distrustful nature? Whatever. Then he can't figure out that she isn't sincere??? Didn't Collins spend half the books telling us what a terrible actress she is? The whole thing was a bit uninspired with no real passion from any of them. When Peeta confronts her flaws in Mockingjay as he sorts out Real and Not Real, I was actually amused - he finally got it right. Despite all this, I did want her to end up with Peeta, but then again, I usually pick the right \"ship\" in any series - the authors always leave clues people. Katniss: As a protagonist, I thought Collins did an excellent job here. Katniss is likable, but deeply flawed. She is self-sacrificing, yet self-effacing, proactive, yet short-sighted, intuitive, but sort of clueless. She lacks Harry Potter's ability to always come up with the right solution (which I liked) and Bella Swan's complete shallowness (which I loved). I liked that she perceived things all wrong and that we, the readers, were aware of her misjudgments. She was strong at times and weak at times, a consummate survivor that is thoroughly wreaked by her experiences. Sadly, I found this character largely missing in the final book, Mockingjay. I thought there was an absolutely beautiful scene in the war room as the characters named off the moments in the previous books in which Katniss herself had moved them. Of course, they were the same moments that had moved me, that made me care about the protagonist, that made her extraordinary. All that disappeared in Mockingjay and was replaced by a hysterical drug addict that was too self-absorbed to be of any use to anyone. What happened? While I respect that she went through hell twice, which is more than any 16-17 year old would be able to handle without completely losing it, the realism saddened me a little bit because I wanted her to inspire people again, not as a symbol, but as a person. Themes: First of all, I love dystopian lit. Maybe I'm morbid, but I really love when a writer can show us where our current path is leading. I think this is the area that divides the fans and the haters. Either you hated the books for the graphic violence and despicable premise or you resonated with how wrong we can really go. As a mother, I would like to say that I would have stood up to a government killing our children for entertainment, but would I be that strong? Would I, like the characters that voted for a revenge Hunger Games, reason that it was better than a mass slaughter? I don't know, and God-willing, none of us will ever have to face that decision, but it does make you wonder. What I loved about Collins' handling of this concept is how much the good guys struggled to remain \"good guys.\" The rebels manipulate Katniss and leave her to fight for her life just as President Snow does - always for \"the greater good.\" It is the fact that Katniss never manages to escape being a pawn in someone's game that is so compelling and tragic. Just when one game is over and you think she has persevered, she is thrown into another, and another, and another. Oddly, I was quite intrigued by the lifestyle of the Capitol people. The absurd obsession with fashion, the media circus invading every aspect of life, the indifference to horror, the over-indulgence leading to quick fixes (the drink that makes you throw-up, the full body polish) all of it comments directly on our modern day shallowness. What I really found profound was Katniss' observation that it was all about them. Every horror she had lived through, they experienced only as it affected them. How true that is. The media, the internet, all of it has made us feel like we have experienced so much, when in reality it never even touches us. It's not our fault - we couldn't handle truly feeling every moment of suffering the world has, but it does make me wonder what damage it is doing to our souls to be so aware and so indifferent. The Ending: Sad. What's more, I was glad for it. Unlike the absurdity that was Breaking Dawn, Mockingjay leaves us devastated by losses we didn't know would affect us and numb to losses that we thought would bring us to tears. It was, after all, a war. What confused me the most was not that there were unexpected losses, but the absence of Katniss' mother at the end. I get that she would not want to go back to 12, but why doesn't Katniss stay with her? As a mother, if I had lost both my husband and one child, I would keep my remaining family close. Then there was the Gale/Peeta thing. In Catching Fire, Katniss chooses Gale. She is clear that her relationship with Peeta is a contrived show, but she really does care about him and loves him to a degree. However, she knows that she and Gale belong to each other. When she is sent back to the games, she gives up on Gale and finds herself needing Peeta again. The conversation between the two love intrests in Mockingjay, in which Gale declares Katniss will choose who she needs to survive attempts to set-up this great choice and we are left to wonder how she will choose. Then, by chance, when Gale's bomb kills Prim, her choice is made for her. She can't stand the thought that he inadvertently killed Prim, so he heads off to District 2 leaving Peeta to pick up the pieces of what's left of her. Oh well, they seem to be reasonably happy together eventually. Although, the epilogue felt . . . resigned and emotionally distant. Overall, I appreciated the messiness of the ending, the sense of moving on without tying up all the loose ends neatly. Despite my criticisms, I really felt that this was an excellent series. It made me feel and it made me think, which is what good books should do. Those that criticize the simplicity of the writing or the non-preciseness of the grammatical structure, are plain silly. It is prose for young adults. Those that find the subject matter too disturbing, I understand, it is meant to disturb you. Overall, it was one of the most compelling books or series of books I have read in a long time, so I think that counts for something. ...more I made the mistake of not reviewing each book as I finished it and since I read them one right after another I can no longer distinguish what happened in and my thoughts of each book separately. So for now I will voice my opinion on the trilogy. Where to even begin? These books are completely awesome and if you are reading reviews then you probably already know what the books are about so need to go over old news! lol In the beginning I loved Katniss, she was strong, feisty and knew what she wante I made the mistake of not reviewing each book as I finished it and since I read them one right after another I can no longer distinguish what happened in and my thoughts of each book separately. So for now I will voice my opinion on the trilogy. Where to even begin? These books are completely awesome and if you are reading reviews then you probably already know what the books are about so need to go over old news! lol In the beginning I loved Katniss, she was strong, feisty and knew what she wanted out of life. To provide for her family, keep her sister safe, hunt in the woods for some peace and freedom, spend time with her best friend Gale and never marry or have children that the capitol could later torture. When she volunteers to take her sister's place in the hunger games all of that changes. From the moment she volunteers her life is no longer her own, she is subject to a mulitude of people who tell her what to do from how she looks and dresses to what to say to how to stay alive in the deadly hunger games. We are with her while she slowly transforms from a rebellious teenager forced to grow up too soon to a victor who wins the brutal hunger games and forces the ever selfish and evil capitol to allow her friend/\"lover\"/fellow district 12 tribute to win as well, to an angry bitter girl who feels she has no control to a nationwide symbol of rebellion and strength and honor to a broken and used up shell of who she once was. Honestly, at times it was hard to read, especially in the last book when she begins to give up entirely. But I think that is natural, I think there is no other way for someone who has gone through what she has to transform any other way. And I think in the end she heals and she comes to terms in her own way with all that has happened. Thank God she shot Coin! At least she had that moment of clarity to make her mark to say no more hunger games, no more dictators who do not care about people. I was proud in that moment when just pages before I wanted to kill her when she agreed to yet ANOTHER hunger games. The atrocities that happen in this book and the way of life the people are forced to endure was unbelieveable. It was hard to imagine a world where parents and whole communities willingly send in two of their own children to kill each other for entertainment and to \"teach a lesson\". In the first book we get no real sence of how these people can do this and not fight back and not rebel and not knock the capitol on it's ass. It made me angry and that's why I was angry everytime I read about someone saying or thinking that a rebellion was prepostrous, that is the only choice you people have! That's what I was thinking! It made me angry how long it took Katniss to join the rebellion willingly and even then it was like no one could see the big picture which was very frustrating. I guess because they had lived this way so long (74 years of sending your children to kill each other on tv) that all the people, the capitol people and the district people were desensitized to violence and death. It blew my mind how easy it was for those kids to kill each other and for the stupid people in the capitol to get joy out of it. I liked how fast paced the books are, you cannot stop reading because your favorite characters are constantly battling between life and death, good and evil, love and hate. There is no black and white in these books, which is like true life. People are not good or bad but a combination of the two, of course some have more good then others and vice versa. It's the same with government, the same with relationships, the same with pretty much everything. This book does an amazing job of demonstrating that and keeping things in balance. That's probably the thing that I took the most from this series, that there are no absolutes, there is no clear black and white but a multitude of colors and grays and every voice has a different side of the story. And now on to the relationships. To me the most profound and touching relationship was between Peeta and Katniss. I just love love Peeta. He is so pure and kind and loves Katniss so much. I spent the etire series waiting for him to die and I was sooooo very happy in the end when not only did he live but he got Katniss! I knew she loved him, how could she not? I knew from teh way she kept his pearl, was willing to die for him just as she was for Prim and the way she could never ever keep her mind from him and the way she saw all the good he represented in a very bad world. I never bought into a romantic type love betwen her and Gale. I think he was more the brother figure, at least to her. No doubt he felt more for her but Peeta was such the better man. I loved Haymitch even though he is a drunk jerk, he cared about Kat niss and Peeta and that endeared him to me. I also loved Finnick and am still pissed he died. There was no reason for that! AHHHH. Well I think I could go on and on forever on my thoughts about these books so I guess I will stop here. It is good, amazingly good if you can stomach betrayal, loss of hope, devestation, children killing and dying, torture and every other horrible thing you can imagine. Some people can't but I for one loved this series! ...more A mockingjay is a creature the Capitol never intended to exist. They hadn't counted on the highly controlled jabberjay having the brains to adapt to the wild, to pass on its genetic code, to thrive in a new form. They hadn't anticipated its will to live. What did I think? Good question. For the last 2% I didn't think anything, I just felt heartbroken, sad, remorseful, regretful, desperate, full of loss and melancholic. I read these books back to back and it was a lot to take in. The last book A mockingjay is a creature the Capitol never intended to exist. They hadn't counted on the highly controlled jabberjay having the brains to adapt to the wild, to pass on its genetic code, to thrive in a new form. They hadn't anticipated its will to live. What did I think? Good question. For the last 2% I didn't think anything, I just felt heartbroken, sad, remorseful, regretful, desperate, full of loss and melancholic. I read these books back to back and it was a lot to take in. The last book had a strong melancholic feel to it, because it felt like I had gone through so much with the characters. From the moment they call out Prim's name at the reaping up until the end of book three, so freaking much happens and the characters I came to love change so much. And nothing makes me hit the five star button faster than melancholy to the point where it makes me cry. Which is not to say I didn't like a few things. I'm reviewing this trilogy as a whole and as a whole it was pretty damn good. But here's what I hated. (view spoiler) [The triangle with Peeta and Gale was totally unnecessary and stupid. Here you have two amazing guys who love Katniss. And then there's Katniss who just walks around in denial and gives away kisses left and right. Kiss Gale when he's hurting, kiss Peeta when he's mad. She needed to make up her mind already and fully go for one of them. I love Katniss, honestly, but I hate the way she handled this whole thing. I would've been fine with whoever she chose. As long as she just chose someone and fully went for it. Again, I think this triangle was completely unnecessary, especially if the author was planning to gloss over the love story the way she did. Because let's face it. There was no satisfaction in the emotional love department. I needed some true love moments, but she just ran away when Peeta went mad and she kept Gale at a distance because, I don't know why. Until Gale exited himself and she just kind of ended up with Peeta. I'm also kind of bitter about all of my favorite characters dying except for Haymitch and Gale. I loved loved loved Cinna. He died. But I understand his death. He sacrificed himself for the Mockingjay. Died when I read the note I'm still betting on you. Then Boggs broke my heart. And Finnick's death was devastating. I went back to double check, because, really? Besides the fact that I loved him bunches, Annie lost the only person who kept her somewhat sane. Their love story was stronger than Katniss's. Devastated!!! And then Prim died. And I didn't believe it, because this whole thing started in an attempt to keep her alive. But this trilogy stopped being about Prim the moment Katniss felt she understood Peeta's words on the rooftop before the first Game. It stopped being about Prim when Katniss decided she didn't want to be a piece in the Capitol's games and she fought for freedom, dignity and a future. Still, Prim's death devastated me. I broke down and sobbed when Buttercup came to their house in 12 and grieved with Katniss. (hide spoiler) ] There were so many amazing side characters with their own story. They really made the trilogy for me. I could totally see Effie being cluelessly overjoyed, Johanna being blunt and bitchy and who doesn't know a Delly that thinks everyone in the world is kind and nice? I loved how real the characters all were. Katniss is still my favorite female character. And I still love Gale. (view spoiler) [ \"That was the only thing I had going for me. Taking care of your family.\" sob! Back to what I hated. I hate how easily Gale was dispelled from her life. He was such a huge part of it. They were so close and they knew each other like the back of their hands. To have him just... Leave.. What the fuck? And where were Peeta and Gale when Katniss was wandering around in the mansion like a crazy woman? Gah it's all just so stupid. No passion there, at all. Not with Peeta, not with Gale. We just got fed a few kisses here and there. Okay whatever I need to let this go. But I don't think it's fair to make both men such a huge part in her life and then to just gloss over it. Sorry excuses for hunters and friends. Both of us. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Sometime towards the end of the publishing tsunami that was the Harry Potter Series, publishers began to scrabble around to find a suitable money-making phenomenon to replace him. There was Lemony Snicket, Percy Jackson and the pile of excrement and horrible writing that are the Twilight books- however, although I enjoyed Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief, everybody in the publishing world can stop looking for the next Harry Potter- because I've found her and her name is Katniss Everdeen. The Sometime towards the end of the publishing tsunami that was the Harry Potter Series, publishers began to scrabble around to find a suitable money-making phenomenon to replace him. There was Lemony Snicket, Percy Jackson and the pile of excrement and horrible writing that are the Twilight books- however, although I enjoyed Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief, everybody in the publishing world can stop looking for the next Harry Potter- because I've found her and her name is Katniss Everdeen. The Hunger Games Trilogy opens with the first volume, entitled The Hunger Games, where we meet our heroine Katniss Everdeen, who is a resident of District 12 in a country called Panem which occupies the ancient lands once known as North America. There are 12 Districts and at the center of the country is a shining, dictatorial Capitol and every year each District has to send 2 children, essentially, to fight in what are called 'The Hunger Games' in which they're plopped into an arena and forced to fight to the death. Katniss steps up and volunteers to go in place of sweet younger sister Prim and the first book revolves around her adventures in the arena and how, ultimately, she survives and goes on to win The Hunger Games. In the second volume of the trilogy, Catching Fire, a victorious Katniss returns home, only to find that she is the target of the Capitol's ire for her defiance in the arena- people are starting to view her as a symbol of resistance and the regime wants her to quell the fires of revolution that are burning throughout her country. She tries- but ultimately fails and a widespread revolution erupts all across Panem and the mysterious District 13 emerges to lead it. The final volume of the trilogy, Mockingjay tells the story of the revolution against the evil Capitol, lead by District 13. In retaliation for her defiance, the Capitol has destroyed Katniss' home of District 12 and now she has nothing left to lose except her two possible loves, Gale and Peeta and maybe even her life unless she agrees to become the symbol of the revolution itself... There's obviously more to the books than that, but you're going to have to read them for yourself. Which you should be doing- right now. Go, stop reading this and buy these books, borrow them from the library and read them! They're quick reads, so you won't lose too much time. OK: I love these books. All of them, every last sentence in them- Suzanne Collins grabs you from word one and doesn't let go until the end of the last book- she writes a powerful, taut, plot-driven series of books that practically crackles with suspense that leaps up off the page and smacks you in the face sometimes and FINALLY we have an author that DOESN'T PULL ANY PUNCHES! I wanted to do cartwheels! The characters in these books wrestle with and make life or death decisions, they have to make horrible choices and explore complex moral themes about what is and isn't justifiable in the course of a war and yes, these books are quite dark in places, but I'm 100% OK with that. These books may have the burdensome designation of being YA Literature or whatever, but the world isn't always a shiny happy place and authors that try and make it that way when they're marketing their books for young adults need to be slapped upside the head. Teenagers know better these days and they should be challenged with complex characters and the sometimes morally questionable decisions everyone can be confronted with and The Hunger Games Trilogy gives them plenty to work with. It may be a little reminiscent of science fiction movies like 'The Running Man' or 'Logan's Run' and I do think that towards the end of Mockingjay things became a little rushed on the part of the author but ultimately, these books are wonderfully written (unlike Twilight) and feature a strong female main character (also unlike Twilight) and leave you wanting so much more- (exactly what Twilight doesn't do). Overall: Absolute, 100% MUST READS! You won't regret it! (And they're controversial too... sparking a mild internet eruption courtesy of the WSJ's op-ed page (prompting an alternate take from Salon.com) ...more If you read the collective body of reader reviews of those three books, anywhere on the Internet, the one thing they all have in common on every website that has a lot of such customer reviews, is that the preponderance of people liked the first book best, followed by the second book as their second favorite, with the final book as their third favorite choice. But the actual truth is that, whereas, the first book is monstrously BAD in so many, many ways, the second book is actually a little bit b If you read the collective body of reader reviews of those three books, anywhere on the Internet, the one thing they all have in common on every website that has a lot of such customer reviews, is that the preponderance of people liked the first book best, followed by the second book as their second favorite, with the final book as their third favorite choice. But the actual truth is that, whereas, the first book is monstrously BAD in so many, many ways, the second book is actually a little bit better, and the third book is a tiny bit better than the second one. None of them rises to a level that makes the entire trilogy worth reading. All of them are VERY poorly written, even if it's the first one that is written at an INSANELY poor level. In the first book, it appears that the number one most heavily used word is \"I\" which is a part of countless sentences. Plus, most of the sentences in that first book are three, four, or five word sentences. There were not many 15 or 20 word sentences; and I came, only very rarely, upon a sentence that contained as many as 25 words-- and, even then, they were almost always very short words. I did find one sentence that had 41 words and it was almost ridiculously jarring and out of place in the ocean of \"See Spot Run\" level drivel around it. Not to say that sentence length, or sentence complexity, is the \"be-all and end-all\" of quality writing, but the \"Dick and Jane and Spot\" level at which the first book is written is truly maddening. And I'm totally CERTAIN that it is written at a LOWER level than is absolutely necessary for even the most pathetically SLOW reader in most high schools, unless we are talking about kids who literally CAN'T read at all, and are never going to be able to do so! The overriding storyline concept of all three books is utterly repugnant, and disgusting, and barbaric, and offensive, and sickeningly CREEPY, and just plain fucking AWFUL; with almost ZERO redeeming features supplied to offset any of that horrid putrefaction. Thus, it's *NOT* really a well-suited theme for kids, nor for teens, nor for readers of \"Y/A\" schlock. Nor, is it a decent storyline concept/theme even for full-fledged adults! It is nothing but pure \"violent child pornography\" about government sponsored \"forced fights to the death\" between under-aged minors for the entertainment benefit of adults! If the book had included any photos or drawings supplied as accompanying illustrations for the text, the author and the illustrator might, conceivably, already be facing decades in prison in some county of Florida, or elsewhere in the USA, for actual child pornography! Furthermore, nothing much in the three books is especially realistic or believable. Few of the emotions and attitudes attributed to the main characters seemed plausible. It's not even very easy to sympathize with any of the lead characters in the books. It wasn't easy to grasp WHY any of the \"big important factors\" that went into determining how their lives worked, actually WERE \"the way they were described\" in the books. It was like the author just proposed this amazingly stupid premise (stolen and ridiculously bastardized from much superior works) that the readers are forced to blindly accept despite the fact that it's just plain illogical and irrational and repugnant and sickening on virtually EVERY conceivable level. The books are just plain fucking BAD! They are like a really sick, really crappy, really poor video game that has been \"novelized\" by a fourth-rate writer. But the truly saddest part here, is that the largest segment of fans for these \"Hunger Games\" books seems to be comprised of adults who, theoretically, SHOULD BE able to be reading books like Anna Karenina if only they didn't waste so much of their time reading this type of emetic \"tortured and murdered teen porn.\" ...more I know there has been more hoopla about reading this book all over the place. This is the first book I read since the HP Series finished. Not sure if I have been unable to accept that the Wizarding World is over in a way. For me It will never be over. I read and saw many of my online friends tweeting and shouting about The Hunger Games, so I decided it to give it a shot. I was not sure I was going to like it. Still I went to the expense of purchasing the trilogy, just in case. I did not want to I know there has been more hoopla about reading this book all over the place. This is the first book I read since the HP Series finished. Not sure if I have been unable to accept that the Wizarding World is over in a way. For me It will never be over. I read and saw many of my online friends tweeting and shouting about The Hunger Games, so I decided it to give it a shot. I was not sure I was going to like it. Still I went to the expense of purchasing the trilogy, just in case. I did not want to buy one then the other and the other. It would have been more expensive. Right now just thinking about all the events went on in the books and I want to cry and rage and then be so terribly content. I hope Draco doesn't get upset with me, but I think have fallen in Love with Peeta. I hope he will continue to love me. I can't find words to express how much the trilogy has touched me. Not sure how much research Ms. Collins did on the effects of war and I've never been in a was so not sure if some of the characters reaction were realistic. I found them to feel so real though. Just thinking about Katniss' pain and Peeta's struggle to endure his flashbacks makes me appreciate the world we in a little more. War causes so much damage and seeing your loved ones go through events and situations like that is not something I wish on my worst enemy. Not sure what other readers might think or feel, but these are mine. On Gale; he is such a prick. I know he didn't think that his ideas would get used the way they did, bu the should have been aware that anything that can get them more points towards being seen as better was going to be used. Yes he is handsome and had more kisses given and taken, but I have so much anger towards him. My Peeta; I think about him and my eyes fill with tears. I can't help but just thinking of his and Katniss' last conversation. \"Real or not real?\" I hope that anyone in here who has not read the books will get down to business and read them. Buy them if you can, they are worth every penny. Elizabeth ...more (view spoiler) [My latest book obsession : The Hunger Games trilogy. The Hunger Games is a kind of book I thought I'll never read. Its a mixture of different genres that I rarely touch like war, post-apocalyptic and serious action + violence! The message that the author Suzanne Collins is trying to convey is that war doesn't benefit anything for both sides. I absolutely love the first book from The Hunger Games trilogy, The Hunger Games. It's full of action and little romance between Katniss and (view spoiler) [My latest book obsession : The Hunger Games trilogy. The Hunger Games is a kind of book I thought I'll never read. Its a mixture of different genres that I rarely touch like war, post-apocalyptic and serious action + violence! The message that the author Suzanne Collins is trying to convey is that war doesn't benefit anything for both sides. I absolutely love the first book from The Hunger Games trilogy, The Hunger Games. It's full of action and little romance between Katniss and Peeta, trying to look like a couple to win sponsors. The second book, Catching Fire is a little more slow paced but still packed with action when Katniss and Peeta were forced back into the arena. The last book from The Hunger Games trilogy, Mockingjay is by far the most disappointing book from the series. The story continues from the cliffhanger from Catching Fire and Katniss being rescued from the arena. Peeta, unfortunately is being held captive and brainwashed to hate Katniss. The action is definitely there but the story is sometimes confusing and the love triangle of Katniss-Peeta-Gale is not convincing enough. Some of the characters that were killed off seems unnecessary and rushed. The ending is not good enough for me. Mockingjay is definitely the most disappointing book I've ever read because my expectations were so high. Overall the series is warning us of the effects that war brings and how the people suffered from it. My favorite book from the trilogy have to be first book, The Hunger Games. I still enjoyed all the books though. The writing and narrative is great. (hide spoiler) ] This trilogy is definitely a must-read for book lovers like me who enjoys a good read with a strong message. I am so excited for the movie that is coming out on March 23, 2012. ...more<+++>The Hunger Games Trilogy Boxset</+++>", "Title": "The Hunger Games Trilogy Boxset"},
